8 November 1956, at 10.30 a.m,  President: Mr. SOEBARDJO (Indonesia)  later: Maulana AZAD (India)  later: Mr. BOXDENEUVE (France)  CONTENTS  General discussion of the Director-General's report and  the Proposed Programme and Budget for 1957-1958 (con-  tinued); Speeches by the delegates of Egypt, Finland, Ru-  mania, Spain, Netherlands, China, Uruguey, = Korea and  Belgium. . . , .  GENERAL DISCUSSION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL'S REPORT  AND THE PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1957-1938  (continued)
(1} The PRESIDENT: According to alphabetical order,  the United States of America or Fraice should first  provide the Acting President, but as their delegates  are both absent I have been asked to preside over the  meeting. I call upon the delegate of Egypt.
(2) Mr. AWAD MOHAMMED (Egypt): This, Mr,  President, is a great occasion in the life of a great  Organization, because we are not merely holding our  “ General Conference, but also celebrating at the same  time the tenth anniversary of Unesco, and celebrating  it in the capital of India. The passage of ten years is  always a convenient occasion for celebration, and for  measuring the progress achieved, This coincidence  is due to the fact that we reckon according to the  world decimal system, which happens to be one of  India's many contributions to culture, The figures  used in reckoning are called Arabic in European  languages, but Arabic-speaking countries call them  Indian, thereby acknowledging the debt of the world  to India. The fact that Unesco is holding - its General  Conference in New Delhi this year is a clear irdication  of its vitality. When we remember that the eighth  session was held in Montevideo an the ninth here in  New Delhi, we cannot help noting that Unesco is  treading the earth like a colossus and joining together  all the cultural and geographical regions of the world.  That is why ve consider our meeting here a really  memorable event, and no amount of anxiety which we  may be feeling at the present moment should be  allowed to diminish our enthusiasm or our gratitude  to the Indian Government and people for this unique  experience,  May 1 now be permitted to emulate the example of  previous speakers and add my humble tribute,  expressing on behalf of the Government and people of  Egypt, our warmest thanks and gratitude.  When India emerged as a new independent political  entity after the last world war, it soon became, almost
60  overnight, one of the world's greatest povers,  enjoying universal respect and affection, a promin-  ent member in the world community and a most  prominent one in the British Commoawealth, The  rapid progress achieved in so brief a space is little  short of a miracle, for which there is hardly any  parallel anywhere or at any time, But India did not  only emerge as a great power; she emerged parti-  cularly es a great force, a great force for world  peace, for world understanding and for international  co-operation, When India refused to join any one of  the contestiig camps, in the hope that one day she  might join them together and bridge the gap separa-  ting Fast and West, she wub described as a neutral;  but India has never been neutral where right and  wrong are éoicerned, and this has been evident on  more than one memorable occasion when India has  steadily thrown her full weight into the right scale,  Therefore I am happy tb be the modest vehicle for  conveying to India and its people the gratitude and  thanks of my country, which resembles India in  possessing a cultural heritage representing succes-  sive periods of evolution and development. But  unlike India, which occupies a sub-continent, my  country is very small, Its population of 22,000,000  is densely concentrated in a piece of the Nile valley,
25,000 square miles, with nearly 1,000 persons to  the square mile on an average - an ideal country for  the exer';ise of weapons of destruction, as aggressors  have not been slow to realize, Nevertheless, small  as it is, Egypt has always played {ts humble rôle in  world history; ancient, mediaeval and modern; and  there is at least one common ground on which both  India and Egypt meet, namely their devotion to the  cause of the United Nations in general, and of Unesco  in particular,  Many of you, fellow delegates, have noticed at  previous sessions that Egypt was anxious to send a  fairly large delegation, so as to participate assi-  duously in the work of the General Conference to the  best of its ability. I even remember how a great  Member State of Unesco found it necessary to  convey to the authorities in Egypt its appreciation   PLENARY  . Yugi India, daty  kr son hy piton de se  “Paklotah Covers end made It posathle fof mé   earliet than my colléagues.  od; méitly beciino  EE  : pt les at the  Srcasoads of MU hers ough it tan °  by fulfil {ta oh fn A oe ‘peace;  Pi eb hie hi. mass than Aly otha,  ee. as «link Hétwesh contindnis dnd oceans and  utd ie Fhe be expogod ‘to any violéncé. India has  tte bet, ite ut moat, to make’ thik Conférence a  pl HR RS st ou as Ll tected the  work of vhs denéral Conference, the work we are  frying to aècokipliah here, Wave éfter wave of ‘  ‘British and French bomber i have aitackèd Egypt) with  A VHolends’ ibd suddenness almoét without’ precedent.             hôte grext i wok 1 members of Unesco, found it’  ; "test  Yidtert attacks pth’ the ©  Ferm popu p ldtion, “"Tholghnds were killed, irdlu-  = Weiner ahd éhildren. ? ie, ‘ot coishé, idle ‘to  it irig the so-called miltt Hery far ue ‘War  ro dis cast mere One X the bombs  ace tor fr e  United’ Notions. wo ith Toh jte Morty rod Hae.  ‘United Nationa Intbymatisn Centre: which sthiids close  to the British and American Embassies ii the most  dresioeatial part te æc te Obvidisly the |  Père did not rigaih td launch their bombs üpon  those Embassiès;" but the’ sert ‘wrought, Pi the  Sourse of the piss week did Hot ape pars any civilians.  Last Sinday à British plahe flew près alr'é) it  : | Tio bécba;' Bu} it t dicpped, adrdething 1x6 halt  « million leufiens, w ing thy. civilian à pepiatiod tn  “Bgyit ko dep d'air Ob GWernment of ‘sutlés the con-  Fr Fe t toad hid, 1 thbgt id ay wite  : ad my td h deén, XY er ‘of tntrtéed $74 a Boy at  leven, living + | hôpé à sy des atl J ON ol ©  bible. welling’ Li Gales, nes holpishé anduvidable  eee cob. Sn ICT  such ion iris rents td à civiliih popu- ang il Bit a ie  ons fad har Pois  xh the War mania so  gn commit jrhiole-  ‘apiritt Thard hag ah fd Prachi fo  ationalise jolla >  H ’  at Site Ni Nétièns ‘and it  titad wi à désiing  Egypt ‘ald ndt >  hy act 15 ironbe  Hess powers, when  ‘this ger attack wis find against it.” The  MEETINGS  ‘eribéd the Anglo-French attack o  .'undore the  | nid def re pas: ih et gr  ‘ susie  is oily oné thing
81  us  a | ohiwryueral  pos 10's y Gienbitentis Là à curiérs me,  if : 8  fi i  Ee l  Ta   a   happeñsd té be here in India, the man who, A  with'Archibald McLeish! ro the aiithor of the’  famous preainble to the Unesco Teste "Biée  wars bégin in the minds of meni, it id in the minds of  mén that the defences of pencé must be constructed".  Lord ‘Attlee, here in Indie; is reported to héyé des:  Egypt ès shier  madness, Géiteral Elséhhowér, speaking ht i very  delicate Moment 1h Américin history, snd during’  election Week, described  Anglo-Freénch aggression:  as a decisiod taken in error, He went on to say that  "wé could not have’ one law tor our friends and  another’ for those Who dissgieed with us. These :  are the words of a great. mat, à véry great ‘widn, who  cértalnly can see through the ypoootay of the elaim  that ¢ the Attacking forces wire merely separating the  Mr, Presidest’ aid fotiéw delégates NE ite  obvidiis to all of us that intévnaticé “Moral Bae;  suk to à very low level not = bécalise dé‘  ere ark, mak itpror voked = bite  because wae a by. cynic id  crisy. The Ang se pins aient of te gots druide pa diy  towards {aternational concillafiod nd  How car the wrong coiritthd be fig                ot ÿ oa n  we huge (  hi cat hase [ro expired  fobs AS and to theif & \ ae hi  Géperal HR recently old th  Le     major oe  rity of We
11-6  issue with any other issue, such as that of Hungary.
1 do not for a moment want to stop you from’ doing  “ anything - adopting any measure in that direction, or  giving consideration to anything, But as a great world  tribunal, you must in all falrness judge every issue  separately. It is not too much to ask you - in the  name of the thousands of civilians, women and children  indiscriminately murdered, and other thousands of  persons maimed and mutilated by the Anglo-French  bombardment of the Egyptian people - it is not too  much to ask you to give seperate and special consi-  deration to this particular issue, by itself and for  itself.  Meanwhile, Mr, President and fellow delegates,  let us all pray to (ied that this limited aggression  against the Egyptian people shall not deteriorate,  shall not spread beyond its present limits and shall  not degenerate into a terrible world confiict,
(3) The PRESIDENT; I call upon the delegate of  Finland,
(4) Mr, VIROLAINEN (Finland): Mr. President, the  delegation of Finland, which now, fer the first time,  is participating in the General Conference of Unesco,  has asked to speak in this general debate which deals  with the report of the Director-Ger. }al, and with  proposals for the programme and budget for the next  term.  We have asked for the floor, because Finland has  not before had the opportunity to explain how we in  our country have dealt with the problems coming  within the scope of Unesco's activities, We should  also like to explain in this) 16 ineral discussion why  Finland joined Unesco at 80 comparatively late a date,  and to express our opinion as to what we consider to  be the most important problems to be solved during  the ensuing term.  For reasons about which she could do nth]  Finland had to wait for eight years before obt  her membership of the United Nations, When, Le  Finland wae accepted as à member of the United  Nations où 14 December 1085, the news was received  in our country with the very ‘greatest satisfaction,  Immediately after being admitted to membership of  the United Netions, Finland took steps to join! Unesco,  and on 10 October 1956 this was accomplishe  Thus the Finnlsh delegation, now in this av embly,  works with the other delegations on a footing of parity.  Through us, then, the Finnish nation conveys its  cordial greetings to this world organization, and to  this assembly as well,  Finland, too, wants to work side by side with the  member nations to uphold and further the noble aims  of Unesco. Our country has always laid stress on the  encoursgement of intellectual development, and it is  therefore with immense hopé and interest that we  support the aims of Uneaco,  As a small nation, i fe ‘particularly, weil favoured by  nature, we Finns realllé full well that, éven in order  to secure independer.ch and national freedom, we must  work ceaselessly for thé continued improvement of  our intellectual and culhiral level; For centuries  Finland has, with gratifying results, pursued the  activities which are now crystallized in the aims of  Unesco. Illiteracy is, to all intents and purposes,  unknown in Finland. From this respected tribune,
62  - of the Sc  PLENARY MEETINGS  ladies and gentlemen, 1 should like to correct a  misappreheusion emanating from Unesco statistics,  A statement appeared in "World Communications".  recently to the effect that 5 to 10 per cent of the  Finnith people were illiterate - a statement which,  in my country, has aroused deep indignation. These  figures are totally wrong, As a matter of fact, ,  during the past 25 years, it has not been possible to  compile any statistics regarding illiteracy, for the  very obvious reason that illiteracy has not existed  in Finland since the nineteenth century, We have  had compulsory school education singe 1922; the |  period of compulsory schooling has been seyen years  in the countryside, and eight years ‘in towns; and,  with the beginning of next term, the period of com-  pulsory school education will be eight years through-  out the country, Thirty per cent of all children aged  eleven, after four years in the primary schools,  enter a school which is more like a theoretical  secondary school, Children who go to this school  thus receive nine years' education, and they may  continue their studies in the upper s¢conda)y schools  and become university students. We have three free  universities and eleven institutes at university level,  In these universities there are 16,000 students, and  there are only 4,000,000 inhabitants in Finland, This  shows that the number of students {s, proportionately  one of the highest in the world, And great efforts  are continually being made to extend vocationul  instruction,
1 should also like to refer to the lively interest in  art, which flourishes in my country today as actively  as it has always done, and has already found  expression in our national epic ""Kalevala’, a work  that has been translated into 40 foreign languages.  All the world, I am sure, knows the famous name of:  Sibelius, our master composer, Our modern archi-  tecture and our applied, art are recognized inter- ;  nationally. I must also mention oui \eatrs; this is  freely patronized by all classes, as is shown by the  fact that we have nearly 40 professional thentres,  while our amateur theatre groups aré immensely  popular. We have a free press, and flourishing adult  education. 1 have thus presented to you in brief,  ladies and gentlemen, come of the ‘prinéipal achieye-  ments of Finnish culture, Ihave done this because  it is my belief that every nation starts ita cultural  co-operation, in the international field, from its own  national base, One must, after all, work witnin one’  own limits,  We Finns are anxious to, fulfil our obligations in  this great cultural work. We believe that this Orga-  nization has éxcellent prospects of developing and  growing; ‘but this ‘naturally assumes sound co-  operation and lisison bétween nations, with a respect  for the freedom and independence of small countries.  Te a Finn his most cherished péssession is his  personal sad political freedom, This is the result  andinavian States’ constitu\ional procedure  and their democratic principles of Justice, which  Finlend adoptéd centuries ago. We Northern |  countries are bound by (nbreakable ties stéraming  from a deep love of freedom and peace; and the  resultant cultural unity corresponds to the work  being done throughout the ‘world by Unesco, Many  concrete results have been achieved from this  regional co-operation, and we feel now that we   PLENARY  can preseut this same co-operation as our contri-  bution to Unesco.  We Finns feel, and our Scandinavien colleagues  agree, that Unesco! a field of activities should be  limited to central problems of importance, and that  those activities should not be too much dispersed,  However, the different problems of art should receive  greater emphasis, Unesco cannot hope to achieve  success without the full co-operation and aid of the  United Nations and its associate organizations;  there should be intelligent liaison, precluding the  discussion of a single problem by different  organizations,  We agree with the general principles of the budget.  In our opinion, any budget surplus should be utilized  for current expenditure, In this way all membership  fees could be kept at their present level, This is  especially important in the case of the smaller  countries. ;  Mr, President, Finland has joined Unesco at a very  ¢ritical moment in the world's history, People  everywhere ask whether tomorrow will bring war,  or whether a general conflagration can be avoided.  All of us here only hope and pray for peace, for we  all know that cultural development is only possible in  time of peace. War destroys all the fruits of our work  in an incredibly short time.  During the past ten years we Finns have been for-  tunate in building up félendly relations with all our  neighbours, and we feel confident that, with the  common efforts of the nations, peace may be main-  tained, We believe that, even though our political |  and social ideas often differ, we can live in peace  together, helping each other in peaceful coexistence.  In this belief we are encouraged by the experience of  the co-operation between Finland and the Soviet  Union - co-operation which is based on mutual  friendship and on the reciprocal respect of equality  and sovereignty.  We hope that the work af Unesco in the coming term  will, for ita part, promote understanding between the  nations and strengthen world peace.  ‘(Maulana Azad (India) took the Chair, )
(5) The PRESIDENT(Translation): I call upon the  delegate of Rumania, .
(6) Mr. RALEA (Rumania) (Translation from the  french); Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, the  delegation which I am privileged to lead is, like  myself, delighted to be here, in the capital of India,  one of the most important founts of world culture,  We are happy to know that we shall be surrounded,  during our work, by the great Indian people, whose  wmanity and wisdom have shone untarnished through  so many centuries. This auçurs well for the success  of our proceedinga. . .  On behalf of the delegation of the Rumanian People's  Republic, I wish to thank the Government of India, the  municipality of New Delhi and the people of India, for  the generous hospitality they are extending to us.  This is “he first time the Rumanian People's  Republic has attended a session of the General  Jonference of Unesco as à member of the Organiza-  fon. It is only fair to say that the Rumanian Govern-  ment is not to blame for the fact that our country has
63     MEETINGS 11-6  hitherto been unable to take part in such conferences.  Rumania, even when not a member of Unesco, has  always followed the activities of the Organization  with close attention, and has ‘deed, on occasion,  sent delegates to important Unesco meetings, |  For example, the eighth session of the General  Conference of Unesco, in 1954, was attended by a  delegation of Rumanian observers, as was the meet-  ing of directors of cultural relations services, held  in Paris, Delegates of the Rumanian People's  Republic also took part in the meeting held in Paris  by the International Association of Legal Sciences,  which dealt with the legal aspects of peaceful  collaboration; in the meethige organized by Unesco  this year - likewise in Paris - on cultural radio  programmes and on statistics of higher education;  in the XDXth Internaticnal Conference on Public  Education, held at Geneva; in the "Rencontres de  Genève"'; and in many other international meetings  organized by Unesco.  I should also mention that a National Commission,  ccinposed of distinguished representatives of  Rumanian culture and science, was founded as soon  as Rumania joined Unesco.  In signing the Constitution of Unesco, the Rumanian  Government gave fresh assurance of its desire to  contribute fo the attainment of the Orgenization's  noble aims - the maintenance of international peace  and security through intellectual collaboration among  the nations, through universal respect for justice  and the rule of law, and through the observance of  human rights and fundamental freedoms without  distinction of tace, sex, language or religion,  Faithful to these principles, the Rumanian delegation  considers that Unesco cannot remain indifferent to  the aggression of which Egypt has just been the  victim, -  The Rumanian People's Republic wishes to  demonstrate that the Rumanian people brings to the  family of nations & distinctive and already ancient  culture. This fs not the moment to refer, evan  briefly, to the history of our people's culture - that  branch of the Eastern Roman tradition whose langu-  age is a mingling of Latin and Slavonic elements and  which, after gaining its iridependence as a State, has  fought valiantly through the centuries in defence of  its political, national and spiritual exiétence.  Despite the troubled history of their country, which  hae many times been forced {o suffer a foreign yoke,  many times been ravaged by invasion, the Rumanian  people have succeeded in building up a culture of  their own, an original culture, expressed in their  rich language, in their folklore, in the development  of a national type endowed with deep and varied  spiritual values, in their old and new creations, in  the work of their artists and scientists, who have  made no slight contribution to the cultural riches  of the world. ; | .  The history of Rumanian culture and civilization  may be divided into several important periods. The  earliest of these, when Byzantine and Slav influences  were in the ascendant, produced monuments of  religious art, our ancient religious literatire and  our old chronicles. The following period saw the  great flowering of our national tradition. It was  then that our great writers found their ‘inspiration  in the folk tales of the country, and in their turn   n-6 PLENARY  enhanced them Ly the power of their genius, nurtured  by a more élévated culture drawn from the sources of  art and thought of the wider world, Poetry, however,  was strongly marked by the national traditions, and  the national characteristics found expression in a  distinctive style, Though national in form, our  culture is not exclusionist. The work of painters  such ag Niculae Grigoresou and loan Andreescu, who  belonged to the Barbizon school; the lyrical poems of  Mihail Eminescu, who was influenced by German  Romanticimii; the dramas and satires of Caragiale,  the stories written by Creanga and Mihail Sadoveanu;  the musical genius of Georges Enesco, have all made  an acknowledged contribution to world culture by  giving expression to a new aspect of human  sensibility. ; :  Situated in South Eastern Europe, but linked to the  West by its Latin origins and by the new sources of  its culture, Rumania has given birth to artists in  whom the characteristics of East and West are  freshly and harmoniously combined. We are ready  to incur a debt to any who can widen our horizon,  because we ourselves have our share to offer to the  common task of mankind. We are willing to accept  help, because we, in our turn, can help others. For  this reason the Rumanian delegation welcomes with  keen interest, and will support, the majdr project on  mutual appreciation of Eastern and Western cultural  values. Spiritual understanding between those two  vast areas, which has an important part to play in  the cause of peace, mny usefully be etrerigthened by  an acquaintance with Rumanian culture, To the  peoples of the Near and Far East, their artists and  scholars, we make a friendly appeal, inviting them to  study the productions of Riimanian art and literature,  in which they will find the Western spirit expressed,  at times, in forms closely akin to their own. We  suggest that Western artista and écholats too, should  study our works of art, in which they will find the firat  embodiment of the Eastern spirit in forma more  accessible to their own sensibility, We therefore  believe that Uriesco can make an {important contri-  bution to the mutual appreciation of Eastern and  Western cultural values; of which Rumania is a  syntiiesis, by including in its programme the trans-  lation of certain of our finest literary works, the  organizotion of exhibitions of ancient and modern  Rumanian art, the showing of works from our  museums, and the spread of Rumanian culture. Our  delegation, for its part, wishes to give agsurance of  its support for any plans to spread a knowledge of  Eastern and Western cultures in Rumania.  Looking through the many excellent projects  contained in the Proposed Programme and Budget for
1957 and 1958, our delegation is very well pleased  with the idea of a History of the Scientific and  Cultural Development of Mankind, which will undoubt-  edly do much to further mutual understanding between  the peoples. Historicél writing has néver yet  produced a work of this kind, really based on an  exhaustive knowledge of all available sources and  written with complete impartiality - a great work,  showing the movement of ideas and artistic themes .  in all parts of the world, at every stage of their  development, and planned with the clearest wider-  standing of the original features of each particular  nation and of its contribution to the science and  MEETINGS
64  culture of the world as a whole. Our couatry could  contribute to this great undertaking by enlisting the  help of the eminent scholars now at work in our  seven universities and in the Academy of the  Rumanian People's Republic, But after the dis-  cussion which took place, at Tuesday's meeting, on  the admission of the People's Republic of China, the  Rumanian delegation feels a legitimate doubt as to  the possibility of writing a history of the scientific  and cultural development of mankind without inclu-  ding à chapter on one of the most illustrious  civilizations the world has known, without descri-  bing the contribution to world culture made, over  more than 4,000 years, by several hundred million  individuals, How can the civilization of this people  be described without consulting Chinese documents,  books and scholars?  The Rumanian delegation is in entire agreement  with the project for the extension of primary educa-  tion in Latin America, Our country has had  extensive experience in this matter, and can make  the results available to Unesco. In our People's  Democracy, illiteracy has heen entiraly abolished.  The organization of free and compulsory education  at co-educational elementary schools, for a period  of seven years, and the reorganization of teachers’  training and secondary and higher education, can  provide useful examples for our friends in Latin  America, which we shall be delighted to make  available to them. The Rumanian and Latin  American peoples are linked by the Latin tradition  which they hold in common, So any Latin American  teachers who are willing to study our system of  elementary eduçation may be assured of receiving  a warm welcome and every facility for completing  their inquiries. Rumanian teachers, for their part,  will be delighted to accept any invitatiou to visit the  Latin American countries in order to describe their  own achievements and to study the extension of  primary education in those countries, for which we  feel the warmest sympathy.  Mr. President, our culture is at present in pro-  cess. of rapid development, thanks to the establish-  ment of a wide network of cultural institutions. This  is not the place for a full description of the cultural  progress achieved, under the system of a people's  democracy, in the extenaion of elementary, second-  ary and higher education, in the development of  cultural clubs and libraries - to be found now in the  remotest corners of the country - of scientific  institutions, laboratories, libraries, museums,  theatres and musical associations, in the recording  and study of folklore, in the encouragement of  traditional arts and crafts, publishing, films and  broadcasting. Small provincial towns; with hardly  more than a few tens of thousands of inhabitants,  now have State theatres, witii their own companies  _ and with the studios and workshops they require for  the production of classical and modern plays. The  works of our great national writers, and of those  who have lent lusire to French, German, Italian,  English and Russian or Scviét literature, are  published in millions of copies and read at every  level of society. Much has been achiéved in the field  of culture, thanks to close collaboration and constant  friendly rivalry among our scholars and artists.  The members of the Rumanian delegation may   PLENARY  perhaps have an opportunity of giving you the  necessary particulars of this, .
1 would like, however, to say something about the  development of our relations with foreign countries;  the subject is so vast that I fear I can give only a  very imperfect description of the results we have  ‘achieved in this respect. I will only recall that our  cultural and scientific associations; the Academy of  the Rumanian People's Republic, and a great number  of distinguished representatives of our science and  culture haye already joined over à hundred inter-  national organizations, sy:ch as the International Folk  #usic Council, the International Union of Architects  and the International Union againet Cancer, We  expect before long to join the International Council of  Museums, the International Theatre Institute, and the  International Association of Plastic Arts, and we have  already established contact with those organizations.  Rumanian artists and scientists have taken part in  many congresses, conferences, meetings and intér-  national exhibitions, In 1856 this participation  increased considerably; our scientists made their  contribution to nearly a hundred international confer-  . ences or congresses, We also had the pleasure of  receiving great numbers of foreign visitors, interested  in our country and our State institutions, The spirit  of hospitality which is so deeply rooted in the Ruma-  nian people, and our interest in thé achievements of  culture and science in all countries, open up a wide  field foc exchanges with every part of the world, For  all these reasons, thé Rumanian delegation supports  Unesco's programme for 1957-1958, while reserving  the right to give its opinion on certain specific points  with complete sincerity and with the sole desire of  discovering the best ways of dealing with them.  While regarding Unesco's new programme as  highly constructive, the Rumanian delegation cannot  but regret the exclusion of the People's Republic of  China, that is, of about one quarter of the world's  population, of a powerful and distinctive nation, which  has produced a great and ancient culture and is still  continuing to enrich it with fresh treasures,  In conclusion, Mr. President and fellow delegaies,
1 should like to assure you of my country's great  eagerness to Increase its cultural and scientitic  exchanges with the rest of the world, to learn of the  achievements of other Member States and to benefit  by their experience, to put at their disposal the  results of its own achievenients in the cultural,  scientific and artistic fields, and thus to play its part  in diminishing international tension and contributing  towards peaceful coexistence and mutual understanding  between all nations, -We cannot givé way to uzepti-  cism, The world-wide reaction to the brutal  aggression against Egypt gives me a steadfast hope of  international understanding threrghout the world and  of the peaceful coexistence of ideas.  (M The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call upon the  delegate of Spain.
(8) Mr. ROYO VILLANOVA /Spain) (Translation from  the Spanish): I would like to begin by fulfilling, on  behalf of the Spanish delegation, the pleasant duty of  expressing our satisfaction and pleasure at being in  India, this most noble country whose ancient  civilization we admire and whose desires and  MEETINGS
1-6  aspirations we warmly hope will be fully and happily  achieved, ST. 0.  On joining Unesco, Spain gave its unreserved  support to the high ideals of peace and justice  pursued by the Organization, She has collaborated  in its activities with faith and enthusiagm and will  continué to do 80, in full awareness that; as the  Constitution of Unesco declares, it {s in the minds  of men that the defences of péace must be cénstruc-  ted. Spain, a spiritualistic country, ie conscious of  the mighty power of the spirit, of the mind, and is  aware that no effective action can be undertaken  without prior thinking. To quote an old proverb  from that other spiritualistic country, India - our  hot - action follows thought as the cart wheel  follows the tread of the bullock, .  It vas in order to create this thought, to develop  in the minds of tho peoples the intellectual and moral  solidarity of mankind, that Unesco was established.  It is my country's desire that Unesco's work may be  expanded and intensified especially in those countries  whose need is greatest, RE  The proper dignity of man depends upon éècess  not only to material résources, but also, and above  all, to the riches of the mind - of art, sclence and  culture - which stimulate and supplenient all that is  noblest in the personality. Education, by developing  the intelligence and sensibility of the individual and  enabling him to enjoy the world! 8 store of culture,  increases his usefulness, not only to his own country,  but to the whole family of man, .  It might be said, paraphrasing one of the most  ancient of the sacred books, that men are born to  learn as birds are born to fly, It has been rightly  affirmed that man seems to have been put into the  world to convert everything around him to his own  use, to possess it through his intelligence, ‘his  natural human right is at the same time a sacred  duty for all nations, In this respect, all our coun-  tries owe one another aid. Many nations, Spain  among them, have set great hopes in Unesco. That  Organization has contracted solemn obligations to  the world at large, and no nation must be allowed,  with justification, to feel that its hopes have been  disappointed. . Co  Spain, a country with an ancient and deeply rooted  culture, has always maintained and is still preser-  ving those spiritual and humanistic traditions which  give life and impetus to every civilization. It  therefore feels an essential interest in the conser-  vation and observance of abiding spiritual and  cultural values, It should be Unesco's first concern  to defend those values with all the resources made  available to it by the Member States. That is its  foremostduty. =. ; tee  We are not afraid of any form of genuine progress,  whether intellectual or social, and we look forward  as eagerly as the rest of the world to improved  economic, conditions; . but we believe that the raising  of spiritual standards should not be subordinated to  purely material values. It will do little good to  raise the standards of material well-being by the  increase and fairer distribution of wealth, unless  this is accompanied by spiritual progress. Man is  still the measure of all things and the true purpose  of education is to make man wiser and therefore  better.
1-6 PLENARY  Spain is, essentially, eminently universalistic in  outlook. It believes that all peoples are naturally  friendly and all men substantially equal, regardless  of race. This may be seen from the theories  expounded by our theologians, osophers, law  givers and writers, and from works of our artists  and discoverers, Nothing human is foreign to it, and  it regards the whole world as its domain. For my  countrymen, nothing in the world is strange, for they  see through différences of colour, creed and custom  to the underlying humanity of all peoples.  For many people nowadays, cultural relations  between East and West constitute a difficult and thorny  problem, For us (Spain served during the Middle  Ages us the channel through which Eastern culture  penetrated into Europe) these grave difficulties do not  exist, since there is no insuperable barriér between  us. The bénefit of our mutual relations will be  sufficiently ensured if we all have & clear idea of the  unity of mankind on the highest level and a pious  reapect for the individual spiritual characteristics  of other peoples, For universality - the common  effort to unite in profitable co-operation - implies  recognition of our diversities, Diversity is a fact -  a vital, evident, incontrovertible fact, mare particu-  larly in cultural matters. Any activity of this kind  which claims to be world wide, such as that of  Unesco, must be firmly based, fram tho start, on this  diversity, which ia the one and only cultural reality  of the present day, Who could deny, for instance, the  cultural unity of the Arab world or of the Spanish-  speaking countries, which prevails regardless of  their varying political circumstances? Consequently,  the Spanish delegation, like many others, maintains  that to secure the most effective results from its  work, Unesco should pay the greatest attention to these  inescapable facts, It should do this, without losing  sight of its world-wide mission - to unite all its  members in à common task, a joint effort - both in  prepering ard implementing its programme and in  determining the structure and composition of its  administrative bodies. :  As the problema and needs of each cultural region  present distinctive features, it is a great advantage  for the professional or technical staff appointed to  deal with them to be familiar with their particular  characteristics.  Let us now briefly consider the regular programme  for 1957-1958. Here the Spanish delegation has noted  various substantial changes by comparison with past  programmes.  Uneaco is now almost ten years old, and the  experience of those ten years should be enough to  preserve it from hazardous experiments. Unesco's  regular programme should be permanent in structure,  while sufficiently flexible to leave room for any form  of practical action which can contribute to a few  enduring sims.  For example; the programme riow before us  appears to pay less attention than before to the  diffusion of science und the teaching of science and  technology. The Spanish delegation considers that  Unesco's activities with regard to this aspect of the  programme should, on the contrary, be intensified.  Experience daily shows us that in the modern world,  even in highly developed countries, every branch of  industry has an urgent and growing need for techni-  MEETINGS
66  cians and specialized workers, And there is a  shortage of properly qualified instructors to train  such technicians and experts, To meet this need,  Spain is setting up a centre for the training of  future teachers of science and technology at the  intermediate level and, moreover, is preparing an  extensive scheme for workera' institutes and  universities, ;  At the Montevideo Conference, Unesco agreed to  help this centre, which Spain will put at the disposal  of any Latin American countries that may be inter-  ested in it. At the seminar on technical education,  recently organized by the Ibero-American Bureau  of Education - which has once again concentrated  its attention on the vital educational problems at  present facing its member countries, as the rep-  resentative of the Republic of El Salvador mentioned  yestérday - delegates of the governments of 16  countries showed great interest in this project, and  expressed the hope that, at the appropriate moment,  Unesco would not fail to contribute to the work of  this truly international centre.  We have been asked, in this general discussion,  to pay particular attention to the three major projects  submitted for our consideration, and to express our  opinion on them.  Our delegation feels that priority should be given  to the project for the extension of compulsory  primary education in Latin America, as the need  here is extremely urgent and the undertaking one  that will provide a fine example of combined action  on a continental scale in the field of education, which  may serve as a model to other parts of the world  where the situation is similar,  Our delegation also supports the project relating  to the arid zone, more especially as it applies to a  part of the world - Western Asia and North Africa -  which is particularly afflicted by thé aridity of its  soil. The profitable development of this land ia  essential to the economic and social progress cf the  countries in the aréa concerned, And it may be  added that such progress ia indispensable to the  cultural develcpment of that area, and vice versa.  A nation becomes great through thé interaction of  both factors, the material and the moral, the econo-  mic and the cultural, which are intirdependent,  Where either is lacking, the situstion leaves some-  thing to be desired.’ A balanced and harmonious  relationship of these two factors provides a sound  foundation for werld civilization and for the  happiness of the peoples.  The major project on mutual appreciation of  Eastern and Western cultural values stands apart -  from any consideration of priorities. The whole  complex range of possibilities for in*71lectual co-  operation on the interastional level comes into  play here. It is here that we have to affirm and  put into practice the principles of harmonious  collaboration and of worthy emulation between  cultures; for each has something, or much, to teach  the others. Spain, for its part, will gladly play its  part in the measures proposed for this purpose. It  will spare no effort to ensure that the basic works  of Eastern culture are translated into Spanigh, and  will be delighted if the masterpieces of the thought  of the Spanish peoples are translated into the ,  principal Oriental languages.   PLENARY MEETINGS  Nothing remains for me, gentlemen, but to reiterate  our delegation's confidence in the work of Unesco,  and Spain's desire to give its customary loyal and  active co-operation in t«sks vuch as this, which are  of vital interest and tend directly to help the different  peoples to achieve one of the noblest ims known to  mankind - pursuit of truth - whereby we may serve  the cause of justice and peace for all the world.
(9) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call upon the  delegate of the Netherlands,
(10) Mr, REININK (Netherlands); Mr. President,  fellow delegates, it is a great plecsure for me to  submit to this meeting a few observations on the  proposed programme and budget that are to be  examined and voted upon during this ninth session of  the General Conference, But before doing this, I  wish to congratulate the Director-General of Unesco,  the Executive Board and the staff of the Unesco  Secretariat on the splendid work they have accom-  plished in preparing the proposed programme and  budget as it is presented to us in the basic document.  When studying this document, it becomes clear  that its conception ie fully in accordance with the  directives set forth by the eighth session of the  General Conference in Montevideo, A great effort  has been made to outline the programme so as better  to reflect the common aims of both general and  special activities; the development of education,  science and culture, the promotion of an international  community of minds, the development of better mutual  under standing between the peoples of the world.  Among the projects of the various sections of the  programme, due emphasis has been given to those  which fall within the subject fields selected by the  eighth session of the Gensral Conference as  deserving priority.  It is gratifying to see, further, that the interrela-  tionship between the general activities and the  different types of special activities has apparently  been one of the main principles in the composition of  the document under consideration. Two major  projects are included in the document I have been  referring to, and a third one is - as we all know -  presented to us in an additional document, so that in  this respect also the resolutions of the Montevideo  Conference concerning future programme making are  duly carried out. As a result, we have before us a  programme and budget in which, the Netherlands  delegation feels, considerable progress has been  made towards the achievement of that concentration  so strongly recommended by the eighth session of the  General Conference. On that by no means small  accomplishment I wish to compliment the Director-  General and his staff. , .  ;Now, Mr. President, there are two points which 1  wish to enlarge upon. ‘The first one concerns the  tendency gradually to lay greater stress on the  special activities, The authors of the proposed pro-  gramme and budget, apparently, have seriously  endeavoured to find the proper balance between the  funds to be allocated to the general activities and  those for the special activities. Yet, notwithstanding  the increase of the proposed spending level by about  $1,000,000 more then in 1955-1956, it is recommended  that the funds to be made available for the general
1-6  activitise be reduced by $87,644, or 1,63 per cent,  as compared with 1955-1956, The Netherlands  delegation does not criticize the proposed reduction  at such, because it is apparently connected with the  financing uf the major jirojects, and we are very  glad that Unesco is embarking upon those major  projects, “Nevertheless; we wish to emphasize that  the tendency to which I have referred involves tho  danger that the value and importance of the general  activities will gradually be underestimated, although  they constitute the very basis of Unesco's activities,  The second subject on which I should like to make  a few remarks is the major project on the mutual  appreciation of Eastern and Western cultural values,  As the Netherlands has a long experience of the  possibilities and difficulties which present them-  selves in contacts between the Asian and European  peoples, the Netherlands Govermuent and ite delega-  tion have noted this major project with particular  interest. When referring to this experience, I do  not wish to intimate that in this case the parties  concerned have achieved such a mutual appreciation  as would be desirable; there is still a great  deficiency in their knowledge of each other's way of  life and way of thinking. This state of affairs,  however, is not surprising, when one considers that,  in Europe also, different ethnic groups are more or  less strange to each other, notwithstanding fairly  intensive intercourse, That is why our first reaction  with regard to the project concerned necessarily  turns out to be ambivalent: on the one hand, the  Netherlands delegstiou is in agreement with the  main lines of the action proposed; on the other, it  is struck by the rather optimistic tone of the  project, which conflicts somewhat with our own  experience in ‘his field - the experience of an  extremely slow process of development and maturing.  The Netherlands delegation warmly welcomes the  initiative taken by Unesco in this domain, but for  that very reason it also deems it of importance to  underline that the difficulties of the task to be under-  taken should not be underestimated, The more  conscious we are of thase difficulties, the less |  easily will disappointment make us hesitate when no  results seem to come forth, and the more shall wz  be inclined to persevere by extending the time  fixed for the activities involved. .  One of the main difficulties is that the terms  "East" and "West", although roughly orienting our  thoughts, seem te “come indefinable when we apply  them to concrete situations and use them in connexion  with the measures which such situations require,  In the document describing the major project in  question, it 1s indeed recognized that both East and  West present a great variety of patterns of culture,  and it is further pointed out that the peoples of the  East, being to a certain extent strange to each other,  should also strive for better mutual understanding;  but the document does not give sufficient proof of  an awareness of the enormous variety of the world's  ethnic units. It is, and remains, one of the most  challenging problems of our day that geographical  distances have indeed been conquered, but not ethnic  barriers. We cannot escape from the fact that  there are about 3,000 different linguistic and cultural  communities in the world. Not all of them are States  and therefore represented at this Conference, but the
1-6  limited number of Member States of Unesco does not  really make things less complicated. Just as the  terms "East" and "West" cover s great variety of  patterns of ciiture, so the names of certain States  also stand for a certain variety of cultures. It can-  not be denied that important measures have been  taken, leading to the linguistic and cultural integration  of certain new States, and the integration programmes  concerned certainly call for our sympathy and admi-  ration. But there still remains the problem of the  great variety of patterns of culture, and when we try  to bring about'a real understanding between East and  West wo shall have to cope with that problem; the  Western world has a hundred different faces, the East  a thousand, We shall have to make a thorough study  of all these different faces, if we wish to claim that  we are seriously endeavouring to learn to know each  other, It should not be forgotten, however, that in  regard to many peoples we know neither their  language nor the ideology which is expressed or  conceived in that language. To portray an unknown  pattern of culture is often a task that cannot be  accomplished by one scholar in a whole lifetime of  extreme devotion and exertion, Several thousand  scholars would be neaded to sketch a faithful portrait  of the variety of the cultures of mankind, In this  connexion it is of importance to observe that, at least  in my own country, Oriental studies, which were  always held in high esteem, are in danger of losing  their impetus. Of course there was a close inter-  relationship hetween the interest in Oriental studies  in the Netherlands and the practical needs of the  former Government of the Netherlands Indies. Since  this demand for Netherlands Orientalists is falling  away, the stimulus for undertaking these studies is  considerably reduced, because a young scholar has  to make a living somehow. The same holds good  perhaps for other European countries. In that case  it would be of still greater importance that on a large  scale, e.g. within the framework of Unesco, measures  should be taken to safeguard the standards of Oriental  studies as a first step towards raising these standards  to a level adequate to the needs of the modern world.  This remark brings me to the project for preparing  an Asian Encyclopaedia. The Netherlands delegation  warmly welcomes this idea. The author intellectual  of the project, however, compares this encyclopaedia  with the Encyclopaedia of Islam, a work which is of  interest to the Netherlands, since two Dutch scholars  are members of the "Comité de Direction" and this  encyclopaedia is printed in the Netherlands. So far  as the preparation of the Encyclopaedia of Islam is  concerned, the problem of finding competent authors  is a difficult one, while the task of publishing this  work has become more onerous because of the rapid  changes through which the Moslem world is passing.  An Asian Encyclopaedia could and should, for the  greater part, be written by Asians; but contributions  by thé Western world must be regarded as desirable  and even, perhaps, as indispensable. If we see  matters in this light, it becomes clear that the  encouragement of Oriental studies in the Western  world also requires due attention, having regard to  specific Unesco activities.  Orientalists - and especially those who are at the  same time sociologists - are also needed in order to  engure thé success of Technical Assistance work.    PLENARY MEETINGS  ‘Technical Assistance, as we all know, brings about  structural changes in the society concerned; it is  doomed to remain ineffective if the way to structural  changes is not prepared with the same extreme care  as that merited by the technical messures themselves,  The importance of the human factor in this work has  already been emphasized in all sorts of publications,  but it is still not sufficiently realized that the tech-  nical experts must be assisted by acculturation  sociologists, scholars who know the patterns of  culture of the people concerned and are able to  examine the way in which they could be modernized  without endangering the social life of the community  involved, Technical Assistance work comprises  miore than is indicated in the specific projects under  our consideration, but it is clear that the East-West  problem and Technical Assistance have a common  sector, viz. the training of scholars who devote  their lives to the study of patterns of culture,  In the document on the project submitted to us, a  fair amount of space is devoted to the "Programme  for schools" and the "Programme for the general  public". It 18 undoubtedly necessary that the interest  of the general public in the problem of the relations  between East and West should be stimulated, because  the support of public opinion is indispensable for the  project's successful implementation. However,  the activities described under the headings just  mentioned are - as expérience fn the Netherlands  shows - slow working expedients; it should not be  expected that, within a first period of ten years,  notable changes in public opinion concerning East-  West relations will be brougt* about. The best  contact between Eastern and Western cultures  grows where people from the East and West  actually co-operate for the accomplishment of a  specific task, and we therefore should use, in the  first place, the medium of the specialists actually  on the job, in order to work towards better mutual  understanding.  I should like to conclude these few remarks by  expressing the sincere and heartfelt wish that this  ninth session of the General Conference will contri-  bute to a deeper understanding of the peoples of the  world. The Conference is being held in a great and  hospitable country, the Prime Minister of which is  deeply devoted to this cause of real understanding  between Orient and Ocuident. Let us all work  together during these few weeks in harmony and in  à sincere spirit of co-operation, in order to pursue  the great aims for which Unesco stands.
(11) The PRESIDENT (Translation): 1 call upon the  delegate of China.
(12) Mr. TSENG (China): Mr. President, fellow  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I wish  to take advantage of this opportunity to thank this  host country for the courtesy it has extended to my  delegation in every possible way, apart from the  question of Chinesé representation. Iam voicing  the feeling not only of my delegation but of my  country as a whole, when I say that we consider tie  work done by the Director-General, Mr. Evans, and  his colleagues during the past two years to be  . deserving of our highest pralse.  We endorse the wise policy of the previous   PLENARY  Conference; and we have no doubt that the present  Conference; held in an atmosphere of truly civilized  tradition, is helped by the héritages handed down by  Buddha himself through such great persons as  Mahatma Gandhi and Tagore, and by the Koran, It  there is any im rtance to be attached to spiritual  atmosphere, you | have that atmosphere in India.  First of all I wish to say just à few words about  our reaction to the budget’ and programme as a whole,  I think that perhaps there is no oné who knows the  needs, from the standpoint of education, science and  culture throughout the world, more clearly and more  definitely than the Director-Gereral,  A rapid redding of the proposed programme,  reports etc, , would convince anyone that the work  accomplished has been tremeridous; but the work  which remains to be done is almost infinite. There  appears to be an underlying sense of urgency, of  {nadequacy about the whole programme - not because  of a lack of intention or effort, or because there is  any opposition or misunderstanding, but simply  because the world stands in greater need than the  resources of the nations can cops with. We notice  that there has been, or is now proposed to us, an  increase in the budget, an extension of the scope of  the work combined with a concentration on certain  major projects, It would séem that an attempt, and  a very successful attempt, has been made to fulfil an  {deal which underlies all democratic efforts - that te  to say, unity in diversity.  At this point I wish to make dre "Of two remarks,  Unity must be sharply distinguished from uniformity.  Unity is cohesive; uniformity is coercive. Thereis  a world of difference between the two. If we mistake  the basic significance of what unity means in the  wider sense of the term, we shall soon see "diversity"  misconstrued into "divisiveness". Instead of co-  operating and integrating diversity into unity, we shall  have division and chaos.  The emphasis of the planning for the next two years  seems to me to be on education and culture, including  both the scientific and the ethical fields. But in an  effort to embrace the whole world we run into certain  dangers - the dangers of what l'méy call a sleight of  hand with semantics. The samé word may mean  different things to different people. This does not  matter if the difference is not vital, but some differ -  ences are, Let me illustrate my point: thé term  "democracy" means different things to different  people, and the same is true of the term "freedom".  Education, to us, means something which we urider-  stand to be the drawing out of the poesibilities inherent  . in man; to certain other’ people, education means  indoctrination, bain washing, To us, full employment  indicates econoniic independence; to others, it may  mean conscript labour. All draught animals are -  "fully employed"; but I doubt whether any human  beings would like to be classified as draught animals.  I notice the emphasis on cultüre with particular  interest. There is an insistence od the preservation  of cultures. Unfortunately, Chinése ‘culture on the  mainland is threatened with extinction. I appeal to  the Holy of Holles in your heart of hearts: come to  an evaluation, a judgement, which you do not need to  communicate to me or anybody else, Speak to your  own conscience; speak to God, if you believe in God.  Ask whether the cultural atmosphere or climate on  MEETINGS
1-6  the mainland of China is or is not threatening our  historical, cultural heritage with perversion and  extinction; and answer yourself,  May I now say a few words about thé position of  China in relation to the work of Unesco? Put before
1 do 80, 1 wish to describe in very simple sentences,  very shortly, the background of our efforts on the  island of Taiwan, better known to some of you as  Formosa, When we took over the island, or rather  recovered the island, it had rather less than some
5,000,000 inhabitants, That ‘ was in 1945, The last  census, which has not yet been completed in detail,  gave the figure as more than 10 ,000,000. This  means that the population has more than doubled  within a period of slightly over ten years, Mr.  President, distinguished delegates, do you realize  the strain placed on the nation? And when we  remember that the greater part of this population  increase is due to the influx of refugees from the  maintand, do you realize the political, the ideologi-  cal, the moral significance of the phénomenon?  You will also realize the economic problem which  the nation has to face. We have to absorb and  integrate this large increase of population, suddenly  dumped upon a small island rather poor in natural  resources; and we have to do this alongside an  attempt to rehabilitate a war torn, basically agrarian  economy.  Under these circumstances, I think you will agree  with me that we have done remarkably well, When  you visit Taiwan you will find no beggars. There  are no strikes, no lock-outs; there is free economy  and free enterprise, This state of tranquillity is  indicative of economic recovery. We therefore  stand in need of all the constructive efforts and  programmes of which Unesco {s representative.  My Government supports in the main, with all its  free will and all its might, the Unesco programme  as outlined to us.’ There may be small changes,  amall modifications, ‘small criticisms; but on the  whole, as a programme and as a policy, it has the  full backing of my Government.  Perhaps I ought to say a word about our financial  situation as it appears in terms of balances of .  foreign exchange. I have been trying to describe a  state of economic rehabilitation; the fact that we  managed to absorb a rapid increase of population,  and to integrate it; means that we have achieved a  certain success. But the problem is so great that  all that we can do is to easé the strain. Our dollar  shortage is still acute. It is comparable to the  world-wide problem facing Unesco. You have done  wonders, we have done wonders - but not enough to  cope with thé problem of problems before us,  namely the’ wherewithal, Therefore, so far as our  relationship with Unésco is concerned, strictly  speaking we ought to be at thé receiving rather than  at the giving énd. However, as an indication of my  Government's gensé of financial obligation, as  evidence of our Éonfidencé in Unesco! 8 programmes  and budgets, as ‘à proof of our support, I am glad to  be able to announce to you, Mr. President and  fellow delegates, that my Government has authorized  me to state that we aré going to increase our token  payment for the current year from $14,000 to  $50,000 - of which £14,000, or rather £5,000, was  actually paid early this year, in April 1956.
1-6 PLENARY  Before I conclude my speech, | would like to call  your attention to what we have done. I am not going  to repeat what is printed in the reports before you.  I only want to say that when you bear in mind the  background which we have to work sgainst, the diffi-  culties which confront us, you will realize that the  list of achievements we have the pleasure and  honour of submitting for your consideration is quite  impressive - a list no nation need be ashamed of.  The raising of our token payment of contribution  means that we are paying 12 times the minimum  amount, that we are within the top half of the list of  contributors, And we are a small island, about the  size of Belg‘um, with a population of 10,000,000] 1  think you will agree that, as a demonstration of,  sincerity, this requires no argument. China is ready  to co-operate with Unesco. Is Unesco ready to co-  operate with China? I am not a diplomat, I am not a  politician, ! am a simple college president. [ would  like to speak in plain language, extempore, from the  bottom of my heart; I would like to take you into my  confidence. Why is the problem of Chinese repre-  sentation invariably the cause of go much division)  debate and sharp talk in Unesco, in the United Nations  and in other international gatherings - why? I do not  wonder that certain nations, haying an axe to grind,  raise the problem. Put surely it must have struck  you, Mr. President dnd fellow delegates, why so many  other nations join in the debate. In one way I think it  is a healthy sign. We, as an international assemblage,  take matters of ideology seriously. In the first  plenary meeting, I argued for treating the problem on  a procedural basis. The Conference, in fact the  President, allowed the debate to go on. I think that  that was a healthy sign. You want, you are curicus,  to know what it is all about before you make up your  mind; and I thank you that you have made up your  mind, But I suspect that there is something deeper  than curiosity, legitimate as such curiosity is. 1  believe there is, at the back of the minds of very many  delegates here, and perhaps at the back of the minds  of many others outside this Conference, a concern,  an anxiety, about what miight be the result of Free  China's attempt to regain the mainland. | ;  Probably most of qur friends would argue after this  fashion; here is this tiny little island of Taiwan, or,  as some of you call it, Formosa; how can you really  regain the mainland of China? How can you do that  alone? In other words, you may drag other nations  into a major war. I think that is the cause of the  anxiety, of a certain lack of confidénce in Freé China.  I do not believe that any of you are any less moral  than the average human being, I do not bélieve that '  you do not realize, at the bottom of your hearts, that  we are espousing a righteous cause. But practical  considerations might tell you to do and say things  which perhaps, at the altar of God, you would rather  repudiate. Now my answer is very simple, We are  not counting on war; what can a major war do for us,  especially in these days of atomic energy? How many  atomic bombs can we withetand? We have experienced  numerous wars, we have suffered {rom wars more  than anyone else; we know what war means. Then  you will ask me: how can you insist on being the  legal Government of all China, why do you still insist  on répresenting old trends? My answer is very  simple, as I gee it: 1 am counting, my delegation is  MEETINGS
70  counting, my Government is counting, my whole  nation is counting, on the spiritual force, ca the  rising tide of nationalism in continental Asia, You  will agree with me, I am sure, that all self-respect-  ing people aspire to freedom, to independence, to  nationhood, When this force - which is spiritual,  which ie righteous, which is invisible - comes into  play, we dé not count battalions, we do not count the  number of tanks, we do not count the number of  atom bombs in order to estimate the chances of  victory. 1am referring to mass revolution. We  count on the spiritual force of nationalism; we  await - and I believe it is a matter of a relatively  short time - the advent of revolution on the mainlan  of China, ‘ .  I am today standing here to make an appeal to you  not as a delegate, not as a statesman, not as a dip-  lomat, but merely ae a human being. Nationalism,  when rightly conceived, is a force, a power, which  not only conquers all resistance and all opposition,  but which also heals and conciliates. Look at the  relationship - we do not need to go far for an  example - between Britain and India; it has  improved rather than deteriorated as a result of  Indian independence, and the motivating power  behind that independence, as we all know, was  nationalism,  The 600,000,000 Chinese on the maintand, who  have been mentioned so often in the last two or three  days, aspire to freedom, to independence, and to  nationhood. They aspire to something which is  theirs by right of birth, by the law of God, And I  would go further - nationalism, as I see it, also  unites. Do you believe that there is any basic  division between the nationalism, the nationalistic  aspirations of the 600,000,000 Chinese, and those on  the island of Taiwan; can you believe that? Can  you believe that the nationalism exemplified else-  where in the world is dislocated, pulled apart from  the nationalism obtaining in Taiwan and où the main-  land of China? I believe there is basic unity, .e  unity of the spirit, the one spirit derived from God,  from the Divine. There is basic community of  interest, basic community of idealism, between or  among all free nations of the world, and especially  among those which have recently gained their  independence. There is basically an impassable,  unbridgeable gulf between nationalism and  Communierm. They are mutually exclusive. I say  this in order to clear the air, to pave the way for  mutual under standing between Unesco and Free  China. 1t 18, to my mind, essential that we enjoy  the full confidence of Unesco, as Unesco enjoys our  own. :  For real international co-operation, we must Lave  mutual confidence. In order to achieve that, we mus  first of all have mutual understanding. I do not ask  you, ladies and gentlemen, to accept what I say here.  Today I am proud to extend to you, all the distinguish  delegates here, an invitation: if any one of you shoul  care to visit Taiwan, from the moment you land in  Taiwan to the moment you leave you will be the  guest of our Ministry of Education. Come and look  for yourselves and pee whether what I say is or is  not true.  The Director-General recently paid us a visit.  You may ask him whether it {8 worth while paying   PLENARY  us a visit or not. I am sorry my nation is too poor  to offer you free passage from the Conference, by  way of Taiwan, to your own countries, but we will  take care of your stay in Taiwan, I believe the world  stands in need of the type of philosophy, the typs of  ethical evaluation, that Eastern culture, our finest  heritage, can offer, Look, for example, at Korea -  the Republic of Korea - though war torn and  ideologically menaced, it stands like à rock. What  is the spiritual force behind it? Chinese culture.  Look at the Chinese people ourselves; how much we  have suffered; yet I have full confidence, Ask any  Chinese and he will tell you, if he is honest, that he  has full confidence that we shall yet emerge 8s a  complete, independent nation, because we rely on  ourselves, we rely on a spirit of the age; we rely on  justice, and on the grace of God. We do not rely on  World War III.  Let me extend to you on behalf of my delegation,  snd also from the bottom of my own heart, our best  wishes for this Conference. May you have the  blessings of God and of all the peoples of the world.
(13) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I ask to be  excused, as I would like to leave the meeting. The  head of the French delegation, Mr. Bordeneuve, is  requested to take the Chair.  (Mr. Bordeneuve (France) took the Chair.)
(14) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 call upon the delegate of Uruguay.
(18) Mr. ESTABLE (Uruguay) (Translation from the  Spanish): Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, at  sessions of the General Conference of Unesco, all  the Member States indulge in introspection and tell  one another about themselves. Then come congratu-  lations and general comments. Uruguay is always  willing to confide in and to receive the confidence of  other nations, and if Unesco hoista all the flags of  the world, Uruguay's behaviour is similar, all  countries being ever present in the names of its  schools, streets and public monuments. Today the  delegation of Uruguay is delighted to be here in -  India - a country with a glorious past, a present rich  in promise and; despite its vast and extremely  difficult social problems, a fortunate and prosperous  future. And we are here together with representa-  tives of almost all the nations in the world - all  friends, and some of them kin of ours; the line of  demarcation between the national and the inter-  national is very difficult to establish, when it is not  purely artificial, for thers is a growing tendency for  national interests to be merged in international  interests, while international problems increasingly  affect the individual nations. It is not unpatriotic,  but the noblest form of patriotism, to strive to  ensure that the fine tradition of humanity shall be  the strongest tradition in each individual country,  that the ideals of the whole human race shall be  placed above those of the different nations, that the  highest values shall prevail everywhere. Unesco  was brought into being to serve democracy, culture,  freédom, justice, peace. The spirit of Unesco is not  alien to us, we put it into practice in ouk lives by  instinct, determination and education alike. It is our
71  MEETINGS 1-6  destiny to grow in an upward direction, the only ons  which knows nothing of selfish frontiers, of quarrels  about boundaries, or of the subjugation of the weak  by the strong, The desire for progress is super-  seding the desire for domination, the urge to improve  living standards is replacing the ambition for power.  Proof has been given of our natural sympathy for the  right, for justice, for international problems, for the  “ life of the spirit md for lofty ideals in politics. This  is the chief thing that mankind, in our day, owes to  the small couniries) it would be madness for a  small country to move in the opposite direction, for  it could not then survive.  It is through the ation of the peoples that the  United Nations and Unésco will secure their own  future, by creating an awareness of the essential  unity of mankind, the growing need for international  authorities pledged to no other duty than that of  fostering the highest values in human development.  It is Unesco's high mission of justice to reduce,  for the good of mankind, the gap between weak and  strong nations, wealthy and poor nations, flovrishing  and backward nations, respected and despised ’  nations. This is a difficult, all demanding enter-  prise; it requires understanding and sympathy from  everyone, effort from many, and entire self-surrender  from a chosen few, who believe fanatically in justice,  culture and the right of all to share to the fullest  possible extent in the riches of the spirit,  Uruguay gives its full support to the aims of  Unesco, which is the soul of the United Nations  purged of certain of the latter's sins. Uruguay is  a small country, ill endowed with oil, coal, gold or  other wealth; all that it possesses is obtained by  human effort. Its growth is in an upward direction,  appropriate to the life of the spirit. There are  small countries, there are no small nations. The  small countries owe much to the large ones, but the  big countries owe faith to the small ones, and to  justice.  Unesco's spirit is that of the New World, where  all traditions and trends can meet and mingle  freely. It was brought into being for democracy,  in spite of dictatorships. Justice, freedom, origi-  nality and fellowship all flourish in the New World.  Like all other Living things, it has its growing pains.  The Articles of the Uruguayan Constitution which  relate to the fundamental rights of man are in line  with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,  snd in some instances go further in their recognition  of such rights. Everyone is equal before the law,  declares our Constitution, which recognizes no  distinction between individuals except that of  talent and virtue.  As regards education, Uruguay has gone farther  than Unesco; for it has laid it down that free,  official primary, secondary, higher, industrial and  artistic education - that is to say, free education at  all levels, all grades - 1s a matter of public interest,  while Unec:o is striving only to establish compul-  gory primary education, The right to education is  staterl with à certain timidity, and Unesco should  strive to promote completely free primary,  secondary and higher education. This is not  primarily a financial problem, but a political one.  The two most important categories of problems in  human life are those relating to the preservation of   I-6 PLENARY  health end those relating to culture. It is inadmis-  sible that education and health shov[i form the tail  end of a budget; the reverse should be the case,  whatever remains over, after health and education  have been provided for, being used for ciber things.  The following system, briefly, might be considered  to deal with the situation in all countries: no ne  would have any financial turden to bear at any level  of education, but as soon as a professional man or  woman hag become economically self-supporting,  after a few years' exercise of his profession, he or  she should refund to the State the whole cost of his  training in order that the money mey be used  mainly for fundamental and primary education.  We believe that all Unesco's projects should be  supported, and that the Organization's shortcomings  are chiefly due to lack of funds - that ia the trouble  of which we ar: always conscious, ‘When there is a  contrast, a discrepancy, between things as they are,  and things as we would like them to be, things as  they should be and things as they can be, Unesco is  not powerful enough to do whet it ought and what it  would wish to do,  As a meagure of fundamental education needed by  oll nations, Uruguay proposes that the Director-  General be authorized, in the first place, to sponsor  a competition for a concise, clear and comprehensive  study describing the background of the principal  declaratioùs of human rights. The Director-General  and the Secretariat would lay down suitable rules and  decide on the prize. Secondly, we propose that the  Director-General be authorized to supply Member  States with this introductory study, together with the  priticipal declarations of human rights, translated  into their respective languages, recommending that  they produce a small, pocket sized book, for free  distribution in all schools, containing this material  and a concluding statement by the country concerned.  Article 28 of the Universal Declaration of Human  Rights, referring to the social order necessary for  the enjoyment of such rights, seys; "Everyone is  entitled to a' social end international order in which  the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration  can be fully realized". It is incumbent upon all men  to safeguard human rights, and the first essential is  that nobody should be left in ignorance of them.  Thé two most important events which occur ina  democracy are, first, when the people, who are  sovereign, elect théir répresentatives; unless they  choose well they will be surrendering authority, not  delegating it.’ The second évent ia when the govern-  ment selects the State officials; - if it chooses well it  does not cheat thé sovereign people, but if it chooses  badly it is cheating the nation,  A people which is unaware of its rights will lack  leadership in its stiuggle for existedce. It should  also be realized that three virtues go to make up a  statesman, First, ability,” second, integrity; third,  strength &f character. There is no lack of able men  in any country, nor of men of integrity; men of  character are rarer. But rarest of all and hardest  to find are mén in whoni those three virtues - ability,  integrity and strength of character - arè combined.  It is obvious that nobody can govern well without  ability; an able man without integrity constitutes the  gravest danger to human rights; if he har ability but  no strength of character, other people will govern in  MEETINGS     T2  his stead. If buman rights are to be safeguarded,  it is not enough for the people to know what they  are; the people must also know the qualities which  make a man a good ruler; and this is something  much more difficult to discern,  The first evident fact about the State is its power:  by means of the law it can accelerate human  development or retard it; without law there can be  no State. The second ovident fact is that the State  is not an end in itself, The third, that it has no  inherent authority of its own. The fourth, that if  its powers are not checked at the point at which it  becomes iu:nossible for it to do good and avoid evil,  it turns into a’ monster. And an st government  will sooner or later discover that nation it  governs is a volcano ready to erupt, So Unesco  should atrive to promote civic and moral education  in all countries, even in the most democratic, To  that end, literacy must also, of course, be promoted.  Cur country has given special attention to these  problems, and has almost entirely eliminated  illiteracy, It now has only 6 per cent of illiterates;  though even that 18 a great deal. Those who know  have à duty towards the ignorant, those who can, a  duty to the helpless; some people think there is no  hurry; pecple who are not suffering are not  interested in speed; but for those who are sulfering  and enduring there is a limit, and anyone with  knowledge and power is unworthy to be called a man  if he does not use them to attain these aims, Those  who scramble for privileges and take personal  success as their guiding star are far more numerous  than those who concern themselves with justice.  The same usually applies to nations, when justice  does not coincide with their interests; men and  nations alike are prompt to protest against the  privileges cf others, but reluctant to surrender  their own, no matter who has to suffer from them.  As Montesquieu warned us, "Give a man advantages  and his first concern will be to preserve them".  Ot course, nobody who is in his right mind courts  catastrophe; but to strive for personal or national  success at all costa is to reduce ethics to an inferior  and aggressive form of egoism. Knowledge compels  all nations to open their eyés to the problems of  humanity, whether they like it or not. The out-  standing characteristic of our epoch is the nev light  shed ct, and thé new importance attached to the  concept of humanity, which had hitherto been very  vague, a dream rather than a living reality. Human  life - the life of à species more diverse than any  other order of creatures - is basically the eame  everj here; the old costtent of the idea of patriotism  is expanding as the concept of humanity gaine  strength. . It 1» not fading away, but the outlook is  necessarily changing, in thé Ig of new and unavold-  able facts, such as the spréad of aocial traditions;  and an unprecedented amount of travel and inter-  course among people of all natiodalities; - the whole  human race i8 continually on thé mové from one  place to another, countries are gaining a steadily  better understanding of one ariothér, and the best  thing that can happen is that the highest values  should prevail in every country, regdrdless of their  origin. In the past, the chief consideration was that  of origin; nowadays value is the chief consideration;  it is a matter of patriotic interest, even, that the   PLENARY  best things shall be established and prevail every-  where. As for universal values, any faise position  which is not corrected in time is bound to lead to  collapse. Unesco will help to build up a unified  tradition for mankind, which will sooner or later  become as strong as the tradition which unites  members of the same nation, or even stronger,  From the ethical viewpoint, nationalism presents two  aspects. On the one hand, it corrects and rectrains  the egoism of the individual, the family or the circle  of friends, and is thus altruistic in tendency; on the  other land, it displays an egoistie tendency, confining
2 man within the frontiers of his country and, by  stultifyirig his capacity for feeling, thought and action,  impelling him to unjust conquests.  However diverse the ways of life of the different  peoples, it is well known that the human race is, at  heart, the same everywhere. Few, very few basic  passions, few, very few essential needs, few, very  few great ideas move man in all quarters of the globe;  an individual characteristic that canot be assimilated  is of little signiticunce, and an individual character-  {stic that can be assimilated belongs to the whole  world, since the fact that it can be assimilated by all  shows it to be latent in all, The same may be said of  an individual characteristic that can be imitated,  since thet too is latent everywhere. The tradition  that makes man more truly man is the great tradition  of the human race, and the ‘deals which raise him  highest above his origins, and elevate him most, are  those of humanity, which are found in the individual  and in any integrated, fully developed personality in  the form of natural characteristics developed by  education. A man gains his first idea of humanity  from himself and those nearest to him; but that is  only the beginning; if we do not perceive it there, we  lose ourselves in abstract theory. ‘It in not unpatriotic,  but the noblest form of pairiotism, to strive to ensure  that the fine tradition of humanity shall be the  strongest tradition in each individual country and that  the ideals of the human race shall be placed above  those of the différent nations. The need for the United  Nations and Unesco will steadily increase. They  represent a great hope for the forces on the side of  justice, but help to men and to nations should be given  without any consideration but that of doing good. It is  very difficult to confine ourselves, except hy artificial  means, within the bounds of our own nation.  International authorities are needed to serve the  peoples of every part of the globe, to transform the  will to dominate, or replace it by the will to progress,  and to ensure that moral insanity shall not turn  measures of liberation into measures of enslavement,  the technique of salvation into the technigue of  destruction, the science of life into the science of  death. 4 .  Unesco came into béing with this noble ideal,  Since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the  minds of men that the defences of peace must be  constructed. It is understandable that peace should  have been the predominant concern since the last two  tremendous wars from which the world has suffered,  and that there should be consternation at the very  thought that another and still more terrible war might  be imminent; it is understandable that men should  seek to secure peace by means of something more  profound and more sincere than diplomacy and
73     MEETINGS + I-86  political treaties, Unesco's work goes further than  the immediate purpose for which it was egtablished;  and it will be done all the better for that reason.  Even the international authority of the United Nations  would present a certain danger, without the help of  the Unesco spirit. As we have said before, with no  impertinent intent, but with conviction, Urieaco must  educate the United Nationo, If Unesco is really to  be a platform from which the whole wirld can be  addresned, then the grestest representatives of  science, art, philosophy and religion - in short, of  culture - must form a supreme advisory council,  with the right to make proposals, disçuss and vote.  The fact that Unesco has no powers of coercion will  make it better able to attain to truth, to recognize  justice, and to follow the arduous path of duty. It  is Unesco’ s high mission of justice to strive, for  the good of mankind, to reduce the gap between  weak and strong nations, wealthy and poor nations,  flourishing and backward nations, respected and  despised nations. Unesci's troubles come from its  inability to do as it wishes and as it should, We  must not think of Unesco as something abstract, or  expect people ta come from outside, on behalf of  Unesco, to solve our domestic problems, We must  second Unesco's important work in the international  sphere by means of our National Commiesions,  whenever there is no room in the programme for  problems that are important to us. Everyone  belonging to Unesco is an international missionary  who haa taken up his stand on the side of what is  best in man - science, art and culture, The test of  the sincerity of the strong in the pursuit of justice  is what they do for the weak whose interests are  not identical with theirs; it is then that moral  conscience and a true sense of justice are revealed.  It causes indignation and grief when those who have  great power. take advantage of the weak, instead of  choosing the .iobler course of dealing justly with  those whe u/Anot force them to do so, Right snd  reason whit are not universally valid must be  bounded by the right and reason of others; it is  highly unreasonable to wish to be right all the time.  It is through the education of the peoples that the  United Nations and Unesco will secure their owl  future, creating an awarene is of the fundamental  unity of mankind which is being brought home to us  by the growing need for international authorities  whose sole purpose is to promote human progress.  If the United Nations end Unesco were to be swept  away by some political upheaval, we should find it  necessary to re-establish them every time they  were destroyed, with appropriate changes. If their  permanency does not le in immortality it lies in  that rebirth which is a triumph over death, and  even over immortality itself,  The delegation of Uruguay, then, proposes, with  deep feeling, that Unesco pay tribute to Gandhi by  publishiig a volume of selettions from his thought,  with a good study of his pérsonality. And that one  of his immediate disciples, and one foreign  delegate, each give à lecture on his life and work in  this splendid conference hall during the present  session. .  On his return to Montevideo, Mr. Zavala Muniz  will arrange for one of the public schools in Uruguay  to be named after this land of India, irradiated by   II-6 , PLENARY  the noble figure of Gandhi, with its sublime  simplicity, and will see that its library contains  Spenish translations of all his works. Gandhi gives  us a lofty example of heroic saintliness; in his  seintly heroism, he is the archetype of the liberator  acting by the power of the spirit alone. A forceful  personality yet, paradoxically, full of tenderness, a  man of religion and an enlightened sage, he perse-  vered despite all difficulties on the paih he had  chosen, as one of his illustrious disciples testifies  in his great book, ‘Discovery of India". The .  tremendous influence of Gandhi wrought a miracle,  changing trie mentality of his fellow countrymen, As  Nehru says, he was actusted by a sense of destiny,  not to be resisted, His compatriots know not whère  to turn, for there was no hope sither in the old order  or int the new ways. Gandhi did not core down from  on high, he arose, as it were, from smong the  millions of India, speaking their own language; but  his simple words revealed his genius as a Redeemer;  he set à noble example to East and West alike,  The Republic of India canie into being almost  simultaneously with Unesco - two great contemporary  events. :No one is more suitable than Gandhi to  inspire Unesco in its progress, at once forward,  upward, and inward to the depths of the human soul.  Our devoted remembrance of Gandhi is a duty, and  is also our tribute to this country - so ancient and so  new, with its great past and its great future, its many  original and many universal features, reflecting the  wealth of Eastern and Western culture alike. The  overriding desire to shed new light must not cause us  to forget that light never fails, thet originality without  culture is slight originality, and culture without  originality, slight culture, while the two together  make for spiritual greatness. The Old World, and  - the New World combining tradition with originality -  from the vital interpenetration of East and West, a  truly new world will be born. And we can see the  light of its dawning even now.
(16) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon the delegate of Korea.
(17) Mr..KIM (Korea):- Mr. President, distinguished  members of the Conference, ladies and gentlemen,  the Korean delegation, at the outset, desires to  covey its warmest greetings to all members and  observers attending this Conference of our Organi-  zation, a symbol of lasting peace and harmony among  the nations of the present day world, We also wish  to thank the Executive Board, our aagacious  Director-General and his colleagues for the great  success with which they have conducted the activities  of the Organization during the past two years, and  for their untiring work in making this Conference  possible here today:  We are grateful, too, to the Government of India  and her people for their hospitality in receiving this  Conference in their country and for the tremendous  building programme completed in preparation for  this magnificent occasion,  The Korenn delegation also wishes to take this  opportunity to extend, on behalf of the Korean  people, its profound gratitude to Mr. Luther Evans,  our Director-General, for his visit to the Republic  of Korea early this year. His visit, short as it was,
4  MEETINGS  inspired the Korean people, A far wider range of  understanding of Unesco was achieved by his visit,  and a new hope and trusi in the cause of Unesco,  We also wish to express our deep appreciation to  the distinguished members of the United Nations  and Unesco for the most constructive efforts and  contributions made to the rehabilitation of our war  devastated country. Incomparable tragedy as the  Korean war was, it nevertheless brought many  irivaluable lessons to Korea, She came to know  what war and peace were; she appreciated that  many nations volunteered to take part in collective  action to secure peace in a distant country, for  unrest in one part of the world endangers the whole;  she was grateful for that goodwill and assistance  from many regions of the globe which followed, in  the immediate wake of the war, for reconstruction  and rehabilitation.  This is why we cherish the hope of lasting peace.  And this is the particular reason why we of Korea  respect thy lofty ideals of the United Nations, and  why we are so loyal and so devoted to the programm:  and the purpose of Unesco. We will stand firm.  In Korea democracy is undergoing a test in the  Far East. Korea is determined to live up to the  cause of the United Nations and Unesco. Nothing  will prevent her. .  It is gratifying to inform you that, thanks to help ‘  from the United Nations, its agencies and many  friendly nations, Korea is making steady progress  in the reconstruction of her country. UNKRA has  been most active in such work during the past four  years. The Textbook Printing Plant, for which  Unesco and UNKRA granted $100,000 and $130,000  respectively, is now in full operation, meeting the  minimum requirements for all elementary school-  children. Many vocational training facilities have  been made available by the aid projects of UNKRA,  A Fundamental Education Centre, also a joint  project, is nearing completion and will open this  month.  However, Mr. President, I should be guilty of  concealing the truth if I failed to emphasize our  need of more help in the field of educational .  reconstruction. . I should like to draw your attention  to the five-year programme for educational  rebuilding in Korea, as recommended by the  Unesco-UNKRA Educational Planning Mission to  Korea in 1952-1953. . _ After careful and factual field  study for six months on the actual status of educa-  tion at that time, the Mission estimated that about  $70,000,000 would be required for educational .  reconstruction. In spite of all the faithful work  executed by UNKRA during the past four years,  its educational accomplishment comprises only a  small part of the original recommendation. In _ .  other words, UNKRA has allotted about $10,000,060  to educational projects, And now the Agency is  taking steps to terminate its operations in Korea,  It is distressing for us to note, at this time, in the  Director-General's Proposed Programme and  Budget for 1957-1958, a proposal to discontinue  emergency educational assistance to Korea with  the termination of UNKRA activities, and we have  already sought Unesco' 8 assistance in sponsoring  two projects to be handed over by UNKRA.  Korea is fighting against poverty. We place great   PLENARY  national emphasis on economic reconstruction,  Since economic instability is the priniary cause of  discord in human life, we feel that this éffort must  first of all be brought to success. As Uneuco is well  aware, the peaceful and practical application of  advanced scientific findings and methods is the basic  and fundamental requirement for economic improve-  ment. We observe with admiration and hope the work  done by Unesco experts in many countries to assist in  scientific development. And we badly need such  advice and assistance, It ia the earnest desire of the  Government of Korea to request Unesco to send a  Science Mission to Korea to study our fields of  science, and advise us on future scientific  development. ‘  In the meantime, we shall not sit by and wait for  outside assistance, We shall do our utmost to help  ourselves. Korea too cannot remain a beneficiary  only. We are eagerly seeking for means whereby we  can contribute to the progress of humanity. Korea  bas a distinguished cultural heritage, Our classic  music, ancient artistic crafts and dances, for example,  have world-wide recognition. But systematic  collection and adequate preservation are still goals  tobe achieved. =~ Co  Before I close, I wish to make a statement about  Korea and her people in the light of the world situa-  tion today. Korea, in spite of being of one unique race  throughout her long history, now remains divided in  two. From the point of view of world peace and  security, the unification and independence of Korea  is indispensable, We, the Korean people, North and  South, confidently and impatiently demand that the  free will of the people be allowed expression under  elections observed by the United Nations.  In closing, I wish to congratulate our Director -  General on the magnitude of his accomplishments  within the time allotted to him, and to pledge Korea's  devoted suppor’. of and co-operation with Unesco in  the future.
(18) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon the delegate of Belgium.     MEETINGS u-6  add that I was rather proud of that!  Mr. President, I hope you are not going to say to  me today, "I have enough speakers on my list and  it ie getting late, so please sit down". "Unesco has  seen many changes in the last ten years, but what  are ten years in the life of a young organization?  Moreover, though it costs me a struggle, after  everything we have heard'in this assembl y, I refuse,  on principle, to follow those of my colleagues who  have embarked upon politigs. ‘You must allow me,  as the representative of a small country which  really cannot get in anyone's way, to say that  politics are not our ground, We must remember  that; when everything else goes awry, we still have  the exchange of ideas, our human contacts, our  common devotich to beauty, Unesco is and should,  we feel, remain the last bastion - the very last if it  must be 80 - of the freedom of the mind, It must  stand as the final refuge of tolerance, the csntral |  keep, 80 to speak; of a stronghold where, while  besieged and besiegers shoot their bolts and lay  about them with their swords, a minstrel sings the  praises of his lady or a poet such as Omar Khayyam  or Li Tai-Po puts into exquisite verse the deep  significance of life, , ;
1 want to state this firmly, at a rmôrment when the  world is passing through an acute érisis which makes  our efforts to achieye peace, understanding and co-  operation appear, at times, unrealistic, untimely,  irrelevant to the chief concerns of the day, Delib-  erate, clear sighed optimism seéms to me to be  essential at such moments. When tension is great  and the atmosphere sultry and storiny, I think we  should reflect on the deeper meaning of those  beautiful lines by the Belgian poe}, Emile Vérhaeren,  spesking of the ferryman who rows steadily, against  wind and tide, "qui garde pourtant, pour Dieu sait  quand, le roseay vert entre les dénte". |. :  The green reed] What a ‘symbol! It warms my  heart to think that distinguished, generous minded  men have come fo India - that eternal land which is  still so amazingly full of life - in order to seek |  constructive; peaceful solutions to a widé variety of  cultural problems, Prominent, réprésentative  personalities, whose individual opinions on specific  questions are often surprisingly alike, though their  governments hold difi>ring views and their peoples  subscribe to diametrically opposite economic and  social theories - these men meet in this great hall  and inthe neighboring rooms, listening side by side,  freely accepting the same rules and, with slight  shades of différence, sharing the same concern for  humanity and ‘thé world, Their behaviour proves  that disputes and differences between nations, real  and evident though they may appear, are not  fundamental, ; ! .  No, fraternity 18 not an empty word for those who,  in obedience to the guiding principles of Unesco,  seek everywhere and above all for thé hüimah  essence in all things. Our delegations may téñd to  become more and more governmental in'character,  a fact I never cease to regret, but it is the individu-  ality, the personality of their members which  prevails, How lucky that is({ And what a portent of  success, you will agree, despite the political clouds  that darken even the gloricus blue sky of this  hospitable, impressive India where we have
75   I-6 PLENARY MEETINGS  gathered for our good and for our deep happinesa.  It 18 this spirit of association, tellowship, friend-  ship - if I may go so far - that éncourages me to  propose a semi-official meeting, as an offshoot of the  Conference, between all those who were in London ten  years ago. Mr, Carneiro and Mr. 'Beeby, Mr. Nielsen  and Mgr Maroûn, and thé many othérs who have been  familiar figures at the big international gatherings  and who are still with us! And you, my friends  Reinink and Bender and Flérkin - and other dietiñ-  guished colleagues whom I must apologize for not  mentioning by name, Let Mr. Thomas or Mr. Kirpal  or Miss McPhee, of the Secretariat, ask for a list of  the founder members now in Dell, and let us have a  meeting in the next few days, intérmaily and without  ceremony. .All'l ask you to contribute is some  amusing or curious anecdote aboul the lighter side  of our Organization. That will be the pretext for the  meeting, but its real aim will be to seek and find ways  of bringing our delegates, whatever their origin, into  closer and more active association, I beg you to  agree, for you must admit that there are more of us  than ever at this ninth session of the Conference, and  in many cases we are strangers; we are still far  from knowing or recognizing all our colleagues -  brothers as we are, whether white, brown, black or  yellow! )  That is why 1 venture to em hasize ah aspect which  may seem secondary or even trivial, but which, I  think, takés on outstanding importance in view of  what may be called the grave circumstances attending  the opening oi this ninth séssion,  Nothing but benefit can ease for Unesco and for  our work; the head of any businees kñows that the  best work is done in an atmosphere of good humour.  A cup of tea taken in a circle of shimmering saris, a  convivial glase, does tore for human relations than  our inevitably cold and rather formal plenary  meetings, , We might, for instance - 1 say for  instance because ‘someone may have a better idea -  appoint an evening for getting together, set aside an  hour or a day for friendship, It may end with some  friendly back slapping iñ the American style, it may  bring a smile to li fio at present rather steraly  compressed; in any case it should create good  feeling towards ‘colleagues’ who, like ourselves, are  serving an ideal of human fellowship - are, after all,  paving the way fcr a riéw world, to the preparation of  which we are devoting our time and the best that is in  us. 1 should be happy if my appeal were to evoke  some respotise among our senior colleagues, the  pilgrims following the international way. If they  decide to do anything along the lines I have suggested,  many of the rest of us - including myself! - will  support them in the attempt to penetrate to the soul  of this ninth cultural conference - a soul which I have  not really felt stirring so far - and prevent it from  degenerating into à second-rate political gathering  with no terms of reference and possibly Ho  competence.  And now, Mr. President, I must dome to the actual  subject with which we are concernéd at the moment.  We are, on the whole, satisfied, despite certain  criticisms or amendments relating to points of minor  importance. We in Belgium feel considerable  admiration for the skill with which the Director-  General and the Executive Board have struck a  T6     balance between the various majar projects, with  adequate financial provision; the general and, if I  may say so, generous projects which give a helping  hand to new countries now developing or recovering  a sense of thelr own possibilities; and the more  specialized projects that give concrete form to our  aspirations for cultural co-operation in certain fields  of science or art.  We feel that the human race nov stands at a  turning point in its history. We still have, and  always shall have, much to do. Our efforts, our  struggles, will never end. So wé must continue  patiently, prosaically, to translate an unbroken line  of thought into social or scientific fact. Continuity  of effort, fidelity to a freely selected aiia, are great  spiritual forces. Unesco must secure these,  combining tenacity with the daring of creative  imogination,
1 will say nothing about sélentific research on  the arid zones, except that, as citizens of a world  where millions of human beings have not enough to  eat, we entirely agree with it.
1 will say a few words about the project for  the extension of primary education in Latin America,  a continent in a férment of promise and possibilities.  Allow me t remind you that in one of its counties,  Bolivia, my own countrymen - long ago pre- -1014  days - had the honour of being entrusted with the -‘  organization of education; ‘thé late Mr. Réuma, who  was first Principal of thé Teacher Training School  at Sucre, then Director -Qerieral of Education for the  whale country {and who, incidentally, came to Unesco  on several occasions) ts probably nat’ yet. entirely  forgotten among ‘the foothills of the Andes, ‘ And  another friend of mine, Inspéctor- General Léon  Jeunehomme, worked ag an expert in Chile.‘ So our  South American filends can feel sure that Belgium  will enthusiastically support the implementation of  the first fundamental éducation project planned on a  continental scale - so far as the limited resources  of a small country permit, ¥ course,  This brings us to the third major project - “on  mutual appreciation of Éastérh and Western cultural  values. The Eant, from the Arab Middle East to  faraway Japan; “the West, including Europe, both  Americas, Australia and New Zealand. What an  awe inspiring sweep of space and timé ! But what a  supremely topical subject! We adk oùrselvès one .  question, above all: what practical lessons can wé  learn from thesé discussitis, of which we heartily  approve, but which, though certainly Intéresting,  will be theoretical? There are certain fields in  which such lessons can bé glimpsed fiom the  outset; they include exhibitions - cipectally exhi-  bitions of reproductions of works of art - the circu-  lation of care. Selected films; dnd an extensive  programme for the translation, annotation and  publication of litéëré and philosophic works, in  which valuable help might be given by organizations  such ag the PEN Club. Univer sity chairs can be  founded or given à new significance, textbooks can  be revised, and so on. But I am anticipating the  discussion which will bé held in the Programme  Commission, and I shall instead tell you a little  fact which is still a secret.  Do you know, Mr. President, that it occurred to  some friends to propose Bruséels, the capital of my   PLENARY  éountry, as the place of the tenth session of the  General Conference in 1958, because à great World  Exhibition is to be held thére then? My Government  was consulted and would have been happy to agree but  I took the liberty of advising against it; the new  headquarters will, I think, be awaiting us in Paris.  However, there is another and far less ambitious  project which is occupying our attention, ‘It is the  organization, in connexion with the 1958 Exhibition, of  an Orient-Occident symposium. I beg to propose it  here formally. Thé proposal is backed by a large  number of essential guarantees of succés: a small  country that cannot give offence and his ‘centuries old  traditions of humanisin; every possible facility for  translation, accommodation, etc. - hot to mention the  strong attraction of & really universal Exhibition,  You must belteve me when I say that I am not thinking  primarily of a Luna Park or a Tivoli but of an  unusual concourse of many scientific attractions and  of that ideal "imaginary" museum dear to Malraux,  which, under the title of "Man and Art" will bring  together, for that occasion oñly, about one hundred  trie masterpieces of all times and of all countries -  the highest achiévements of art throughout the world.  Furthermore, there will be an exhibition on "The  Paths and Origins of Contemporary Art". In a word,  Brussels will be, for & few months in 1858, an ideal  place for comparisons.  At the beginning of my remarks, I recalled the first  session of the General Conference, held in the Unesco  building on the Avenue Kléber. I have recently been  rereading its minutes - it is à good thing, sometimes,  to look back after a few years have passed - and 1  found in them a statement of mine which ran ae  follows: "One of the most important tasks is to  overcome the scepticism which prevails with regard  to Unesco ...." and à littlé further on: "We must  do something big and practical".  Unesco has erideavoiired to do something big and  practical and thé Organization inténds to persevere -  we must give it its due - yet the scepticism I  mentioned has not yet been overcome everywhere.  How can we gain more whole-hearted moral  support for the Organization? - This question raises  the whole problem of public #élationi'- a problem  too large for mé to deal with hére, We must make  use of all our trump cards to attract attention and to  arouse enthusiasm which will produce results. We  have some excellent means at our disposal, such as  the Unesco "Courier", which is a great success - as  "sensational", if you like, as the popular press, but  in a very different way. Sincé we have had good  agents in Belgium and since the school authorities  have given us their help, the "Courier" haa been  selling by the thousand among the general public and  the principal schools. This success =~ well merited  and it can easily be broadened and imitated in other  fields.  As for the scepticism which still persists in  certain university and educational circles, one of the  MEETINGS
1-6  reasons is - we may say it frankly since we are  among friends - the incredible number of our  publications. In that enormous variety, some  documents are of transitory interest; we will not  speak of them. Others are good, sound, average  productions, while yet others are of quite exceptional  and abiding interest, Unfortunately, they are  swamped by what I should be inclined to call the  boundless flood of other publications, Unesco can  gain a better hearing by making them more readily  available to scientific and educational circles, and  to young research workers in particular, I would  suggest the publication of strictly limited, select  catalogues; perhaps the reprinting of certain  publications which are out of print; and in any case,  a better use of Unesco publications, but only of the  first-rate ones,  Unesco has taken the lead in dealing with some  major problems of the moment and has thereby  acquired a sterling reputation. I am thinking,  among others, of copyright, of fundamental  education and compulsory education, which have  been discussed in Geneva with the help of the  International Bureau of Education, and of the peace-  ful uses of atomic energy. When I recently visited  the European Organization for Nuclear Research  (CERN), at Meyrin-lez-Genéve; where a small  synchro-oyclotron and a huge particle accelerator -  a kind of scientific Colosseum, with a diameter of  thirty feet and an enormous circuit - are being  constructed, I was really proud to be told that  Unesco had been the promoter of this marvellous  scientific achievément. EP  It is in such fields that Unesco must show its  initiative, as it has done in the past but to an even  greater extent, if thé last vestiges of the baneful  scepticiéiñ ‘#hich'atill persists in certain leading  scientific circles are to be dispersed... :  Our colleague, the head of the Italian delegation,  has criticized the transition programme which has  been submitted to us as lacking boldness. I do not  think he used that very word but it was what he  meant. I believe that Unesco must forgé steadily  forward with creative imagination constantly at  work. The success of the proposed programme,  which the delegation of Belgium will unhesitatingly  approve, depends, in the first place, on us, my  dear colleagues| then on the Exeéutive Hoard, the  Director-General and the entire Secretariat. We  must all strive to the best of our ability, in a true  spirit of confident collaboration, confining our  attention to our proper field - that is to say, to  cultural policy in the widest sense, not politics.  By doing this, the present generation will do its  part, as it should, in the building of what may be  only a modern form of that eternal Utopia: the  universal city of man.  And in that city, let us hope, our children will dwell.  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.