(16) Those proposals were adopted unanimously.
(17) The CHAIRMAN asked members to decide on  the dates of the Committee's forthcoming meetings,  He proposed Monday, 12 November for the nomination  of candidates for vacancies on the Executive Board,  and 1 December for the preparation of the list of  Member States to serve on the smaller committees  at the following session of the General  Conference .    NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
(18), In reply to Mr, ESTELRICH (Spain), the  " CHATRMAN stated that by 12 November the General  Conference would have decided whether or not the  membership of the Executive Board was to be  ‘increased,
(1 0) The Committee accordingly decided to accept the  datés proposed by the Chairman.  The meeting rose at 4,30 p.m  SECOND MEETING
13 November 1956, at 3 p.m,  Chairman: Mr. MALLEA (Argentina)  NOMINATIONS FOR ELECTIONS TO THE EXECUTIVE BOARD  (documents 9C/NOM/ 2-31, 9C/NOM/ 2 Rey. and aC/13)
(1) The CHAIRMAN, ‘after opening the meeting,  announced that the General Conterence had approved,  the amendments to the Constitution and the Rules of  Procedure proposed by the Administrative Commission,  He alsodrew attention to paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 of  document 9C/13, dealing with the proposed amend-  ments to Article V of the Constitution, and said that  the members of the Committee had to: .  (a) bear in’ mind Rules 9%, 95 A and -30 of the Rules  of Procedure; .  (b) consider notinations for the 13 vacant seats on  the Exécutive Board; and ;,, _….  (c) take into consideration ‘the ‘principles laid down  in Article V.A.2 of the Cznstitution, which he read out.’  He then pointed out to the members of the Committee:  (a) that they would have to study document 9C/ NOM/A8  when considering the geographical distribution of the  members of the new Board,’ ds that document included  the names of previous and current members of the  Board ag well as those of the new candidates; .  . (b) that as the document referred to had been drawn  up early, Morocco and Tunisia were not’ mentioned  therein, and those two countries should therefore be  considered when à sholce was made for tho first  mentioned region;  (c).that, for the same’ reason; i ‘did not mention:  that the delegation of Israel ‘had withdrawn the. name  of Professor Lac Kohn and that the drain simendment  submitted by Liberia had not been accepted;
(4) that a nomination for the Western Hemisphere,  Professor Vicente Fatone (Argentina), had been  submitted.  All the above new factor's would have to be  . considered in connexion with the gecuraphical  distribution of members, .
(2) Mr. EL-ATTRACHE (Syria) sport that Syria  was withdrawing its candidate in favour of Iraq.
(3) Mr. CAILLET+BOIS (Argentina) said that, while  his country had intended to submit the name of  Professor Vicente Fatone, it had decided to withdraw  it in the interests of the solidarity and friendship cf  the countries of Latin America.
(4) Mr. BOURGEOIS (switzerland) asked whether the  action just announced by the Syrian delegate was in  conformity with the procedure laid down for elections  to the Executive Board. He inquired whether that  procedure allowed the withdrawal of a country's  candidate in favour of that of another country.
(5) The CHAIRMAN stated that there was no provision  to prevent the action of the Syrian delegate.
(6) Mr. McCLINTOCK (United States of America)  remarked that [3 perusal of the curricula vitee of the  candidates for election to the Executive Board showed  that each was eligible under the provisions of the  Constitution. He suggested, therefore, that the  Committee forward the list to the General Conference,  indicating that voting could take place immediately. |
(7) Mr, KAHUPA. (Czechoslovakia) thought the -  Member States of Central Europe, which included  Rumania and Bulgaria, should have at least two rep-  resentatives on the Board, In order to give those -  States the best possible chançe ‘of obtaining at least -  one seat on the Board, Czechoslovakia had decided,  in view of the large number of candidates; to withdraw  its own candidate in favour of the Polish ane. The …  Czechoslovak delegation therefore asked all those  who would aave voted for Mr, Pazur to vote for  Mr, Wierblowski instead,
(8) The CHAIRMAN aaked the United States delegate  whether his proposal was intended to close the dis- .  cussion, in which case it would be necessary to call -  speakers in accordance with the Rules of  - Procedure.   NOMINATIONS
(9) Mr. ARROYO (Ecuador) wished to'clear up -  certain misunderstandings with régard to the'rep- -  resentation of some countries, in connexion with the  size of the Executive Board's membership and its  geographical distribution. - With 70 Mémber' States,  the 20 South American republics' might hope for five  or even six seats. Since the withdrawal of the  candidates of the countries referred to préviously,  the Latin American group were submitting candidates  from Venezuela atid El Salvador only: Some  countries believed that the Latin'American group  would be represented by Spain, but in fact that was not  the case ag there werd ‘political and geographical  reasons against such ah arrangement. Hé was  therefore confident that the realities of the situation  would bé acimowledged and that the two candidates  proposed would be accepted.
(10) Replying to à questior from the delegate’ of Haiti,  Mr. McCLINTOCK (United States of América)  explained that he had not proposed the closure of the  debate but had merely made a suggestion with regard  to procedure, with the object of expeditirig the work of  the Committee, The Committee's main task was to  provide the General Conference with a list of candid-  ttes from which it could select new members for the  Executive Board, and each delegation represented on  the Committee had the right to make suggestions with  regard to that ist.
(11) Mr. LIAUTAUD (Haiti) observed that the  Nominations Committee should not merely take note  of withdrawals or new nominations, It should also  submit to the General Conférence Técommendations  concerning, inter alia, the efforts to be made, in  selecting members for the vacant seats, to observe as  far as possible the principle of equitable geographical  distribution in the membership of the Board as a whole.
(12) ‘The CHAIRMAN said that thé Committee could  indeed explain the reasons for supporting the  nominations submitted by Member States.
(13) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist ‘  Republics) thought one of the most important dutiés  of the Nominations Com 1tteë was to see that candid-  ates Were elected in accordance with the provisions  contained in Article V À 2 of the Unesco Constitut. on,  which laid down, ‘inter alia, the principle of balanced     entatives on the Executive ry ‘whereas nr socialist  countries, whose population also numbered about 300  millions, had only one representa tive.  aris À ‘those two. A a4
667     COMMITTEE vil-2  Board included at least oné representative of the  People's Democracies; in addition to the representa-  tive of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
(14) Mr, VERONESE (ay); while not digcourtiog  the importance of the principle of geographical distri-  bution, considered that geographical and political .-  factors ‘should not be confused! For that reason he  was a little uneasy about the argument advanced by  the Soviet délegate:" He did not bellève that seats’ on  the Board should be diétributed in consideration of  the political systems in force in the countries to which  candidates bélongéd. The Conference should rather,  in his opinion, be guided in its choice by consideration  of the élultüral ties existing among ‘the various -  countriés of à particular region. ‘ But the Conference  could not on that account ignore the personal capa:  bilities of the various neniiniees, © While he had no :  desire to decry the merits of any of the candidatés on  the list before the Committee, Mr, Veronese stressed  the high opinion that his Government and he himself  held of the personal qualities - which they had had the  opportunity of appreciating in action - of the four  outgoing members who were again up for election, and  of those of the nominees put forward by Japan,  Australia, Belgium and Venezuela.
(18) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) thought that the Committee  should confine iteelt to ensuring that the nominations  submitted to it were presented in proper form. * The  General Conference could not bé unaware of the need  for considering the question of geographical distribu-  tion, as both its Rules of Procedure and the Constitu-  ‘tion contained provisions designed to ensure the  observance of that principle.
(16) Mr. CHABBI (Tunisia). asked whether aty steps  had been taken to erigure that, in the future, account  would be taken, ‘in the distribution of seats on the  Executivé Board, of the fact that Unesco's member-  ship included the three North African countries which  had recently obtained their independence (Tunisia, .  Morocco and Libya) and of the possibility «hat a fourth  country, Algeria, would soon join them.
(17) “Mr. CABOUAT (France), Teferring to the last  remark of the ‘delégate of Tunisia, pointed out that  Algeria was a part of Metropolitan France and, as  such, was already represented in international  organizations by the French delegation,
(18) Mr, CHAËBI (Tunisie) said that his delegation  still held the hopss that he had éxpressed with regard  to Algeria, which, he stressed, were in accordance  with the liberal traditions of Frarcé. :
(10) ME! SABA (Loghl Adviser) spi € ax dite  was, at the moment, no scheme for thé aliocation of  a specitied ‘proportion of ‘seats < on the Executive Board  to any particular’ région,’ Article V.. 2 of the ©  Constitution méde if clear that the General Conference  should, in'éléctiñg the mémbers of thé Kxecutive ,Ç  Board, be guided to a certain exteut by get a  and cultural considérations. , But thers was no strict  rule to that eZfect. The Nominations Committee  would have to decide whether it wished to récommend  to the General Conference the adoption of a stricter      vi-2 NOMINATIONS  formula which would enable a particular region to  claim a specific number of seats at future elections.
(20) Mr. RAFIQ (Iraq), commenting that many of the  countries presenting candidates for election had never  before been represented on the Fxecutive Board,  suggested that support should be given to the candid-  ates from those countries in preference to the  candidates whose countries had already had repres-  entatives on the Board, in order to make them feel  more closely associated with Unesco.
(21) Mr, ARREAGA (Guatemala) said that, while  many countries would like to be represented on the  Executive Board, they had to renounce their hopes in  order to preserve the bonds of solidarity, and, for  that reason, hie delegation had withdrawn the name of  Dr. Molina Orantes so that other countries could  submit candidates.
(22) Mr. NEQNIQ (Ethiopia) pointed out that, since  the General Conference had decided that the delegate  of Liberia was not eligible for re-election to the  Executive Board, the large area of Africa south of the  Sahara would not be represented at all. He hoped  that each member of the new Executive Board would  consider himself as representing that area and that,  before the next session of the General Conference,  the Executive Board would give serious consideration  to the question of allowing that vast area to have a  voice in the affairs of Unesco.
(23) Mr. BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia) thanked the  delegations of Argentina and Guatemala for withdrawing  their candidates in favour of those of Venezuela and  El Salvador, He also sald that, while Spain was not a  member of the Latin American group, he would be  most sympathetic to the re-election of that country,  not only because of its contribution to European and  Spanish Americen culture but also because of the great  services it had rendered on the Executive Board.
(24) Mr, MASSAQUOI (Liberia), adding to the  remarks made by the’ delegate of Ethiopia, reminded  the Committee that the 125,000,000 people living in  Africa south of the Sahara were represented only by  proxy in international organizations. K was not  possible to put forward à candidate from that area for  election to the Executive Board at the moment, but he  hoped that consideration would be given to the possi-  bility of having, in the future, a permanent seat on  the Executive Board for a representative of one of  the countries in Africa south of the Sahara.
(25) Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) éxplained his attitude with  regard to the nomination of delegates from the Latin  American countries and said why his country | had not  submitted a candidate for member ship of the Executive  Board, His Government took the view that ail  countries should do-operate in the tremendous task  that Unesco was carrying out, and he reminded the  meeting of the remarks made on that subject by the  Chairman of the Nominations Committee in Monte-  video. He was confident that the région. of the,  Caribbean and Central America would, at the current  session, be fairly treated through the election of the  representatives of Venezuela and El Salvador and he
668  COMMITTEE  supported the Colombian proposal with regard to the,  re-election of Spain because of the strong bonds  linking it with the Latin American countries.
(26) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) appreciated the views  expressed by delegates who were anxious that the  representation of the region to which they belonged  should be increased on the Executive Board. He  nevertheless saw no necessity, in electing members  to the Board, for starting out with the idea that the  world was to be split up into a large number of  strictly defined regions, He felt that it would be  satisfactory enough if the General Conference  succeeded in ensuring that three main groups of  countries - those of Eastern and Western Europe,  those of North and South America, and those of Africs  and Asia - were equitably represented on the Board,’  It was also, no doubt, desirable that the Conference  should take into consideration the cultural differences  existing within the three main regions referred to. ..  But, as there were also other factors to be taken into  account in allotting seats on the Board, he believed  that the principle of geographical distribution should  be applied in a very flexible way.
(27) Mr. RAADI (Iran) agreed with Mr, Haguiwara,  In his opinion, the Committee was responsible for  drawing the General Conference's attention to the  various factors to be taken into account in the  selection of candidates, such as the importance of  equitable geographical distribution and the desirability  of giving a chance to countries that had never yet  been represented on the Board, without prejudice to  the rights of outgoing members who, being eligible  for re-election, had again been nominated.
(28) Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) felt that the  Committee was going beyond its terms of reference,  In his opinion, it should limit itself to noting withdraw-  als of candidates and new nominations, and to submit-  ting a complete list of candidates to the General  Conference. He therefore moved the closure of the  debate.
(29) The CHAIRMAN proposed that a report on the  items discussed by the Committee be drawn up and  submitted to the General Conference immediately.
(30) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) had no objection to the  closure of the debate but felt that the Chairman should  give a brief outline af the discussion that had just  taken place to the General Conference, and that the  Secretariat should remind thé Conference of the  procedure it had been decided to follow for elections  to the Executive Board.
(31) Mr. RAADI (Iran) said that the method that had’  just been suggested was acceptable, He did not think  that the Nominations Committee was required to draw  up a detailed report for submission to the General  Conference,
(32) The CHAIRMAN suggested the submission of the  following list of candidates to the General Conference,  stressing the fact that the members of the Committé  were the leaders of their countries’ delegations and’  could give further details about the various candidates:   NOMINATIONS COMMITTER VII-3  Dr, Abdul Majid, Afghanistan;  Dr, Gardner Davies, Australia;  Mr, Julian Joseph Kuypers, Belgium;  Professor Tha Hla, Union of Burma;  Mr. Rodolfo Baron Castro, El Salvador;  Dr. Maria Schlueter-Hermkes, Federal Republic  of Germany;  Mr. Georges Averoffi Greece;  Dr. Zakir Husain, India;  Dr, Abdul Kadhim, Iraq;  Mr. Akira Matsui, Japan;  Mr. Ho Jik Kim, Korea;  Dr, Kesher Bahadur Khatri Chhetri, Nepal;  Dr, Momtazuddin Ahmed, Pakistan;  Dr. Concepcion Aguila, Philippines;  Mr. Stefan Wierblowski, Poland;  Mr. Juan Estelrich y Artigues, Spain;  Mr. Bhunthin Attagara, Thailand;  Professor Bedrettin Tuncel, Turkey;  Mr. Vladimir Kemenov, Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics;    Dr. Athelstan Spilhaus, United States of America;  Dr, C. Parra-Perez, Venezuela; ,  Professor Nguyen-Quang-Trinh, Viet- ~Nam.
(33) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) observed that, if the  . procedure suggested were adopted, it would not be  possible for the Nominations Committee to submit  to the Conference the general observations referred  to in paragraph 3 of Rule 30 of the Rules of Procedure,  In view of the way in which the time-table of meetings  had been arranged, he did not think, however, that the  General Conference could expect to receive a full-  scale report, including such observations, from the  Nominations Committee.
(34) The CHAIRMAN proposed adjourning the  meeting so that the members could attend the  General Conference and report on the Committee's  proceedings. Agreed.  The meeting rose at 5 p.m,  THIRD MEETING
3 December 1956, at 3 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. BROCKINGTON (Canada)  NOMINATIONS FOR MEMBERSHIP OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE,  COMMITTEE ON REPORTS AND HEADQUARTERS COMMITTEE  (document 9C/NOM/ 32)
(1) Mr. BROCKINGTON (Canada) (Vice-Chairman)  conveyed the apologies of the Chairman for his  absence from the meeting due to official business,  and said that he was honoured to take his place.  The meeting had to make recommendations to the  General Conference on the membership of the Legal  Committee, the new Committee on Reports which  was to replace the Committee on Reports of Member  States, and the Headquarters Committee, and had  before it a document giving information about the  past and present composition of those Committees.  The Chairman, after consultations with delegations  and the Secretariat, had, with the help of the  Secretariat, prepared suggestions which took into  account the need for an equitable representation of  the geographical regions of the world. He proposed  reading the three lipts one after the other to enable  delegates to judge for themselves the overall  situation with regard to equitable geographical  distribution.  The Chairman's suggestion for the membership of  the Legal Committee was: Afghanistan, Burma,  Chile, Cuba, Egypt, France, Federal Republic of  Germany, India, Mexico, Poland, Tunisia, Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom, United  States of America and Viet-Nam. Seats would be
669  distributed amongst the various regions of the world  as follows: Africa and the Middle East - 3; the  Americas - 4; Asia - 3; Europe - 5.  The Committee on Reports would have its member-  ship increased from fiftéen to nineteen by a recent  decision of the current session of the General Con-  ference, and it would have new terms of reference  and greatér responsibility. The suggestion for its  composition was; Australia, Colombia; France,  Haiti, India, Isrüel, Italy, Japan, Laos; Lebanon,  Liberia, Philippines; Peru; Rümania, Turkey, Union  of Soviet Socialist Republics, Unitéd Kingdom, United  States of America and Uruguay. Its géographical  distribution would be: Africa and the Middle East - 3;  the Americas - 5; Asia - 5; and Europe -.6.  The membership of the Headquarters Committee  had remained the same .since 1953. The Admini-  strative Commission had recommended that its  membership be increased to nineteen and that, for  the sake of continuity, at least one-third of the  existing members be retained, . The Chairman of the  Headquarters Committee had been of the opinion that  it would be wise to retain ali fourteen members and,  in view uf that opinion, the Chairman had made  suggestions for only five new members; Argentina,  Japan, Lebanon,’ Morocco, and the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics, If that suggestion were adopted,  the geographical distribution would be: Africa and  the Middle East - 2; the Americas - 5; Asia - 5;  and Europe - 7. The Administrative Commission had