5 December 1956, at 3, 40 p. m.  President: Maulana AZAD (India)  later: Mr. KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  CONTENTS  Consideration and adoption of the Report of the Admlilstra-
11-23  tive Commission (continüed) , , . , + + + + + +. » 249  Presentation of the Report of the Programme Commission 262  Consideration of draft resolution on Directives for Future  Activitles . . + 2 € + 0 6 +0 0 4 + 4 + 4 + 0 + + + + » 264  Consideration of the Report of the Programme Commission 265  Address by the President of the General Conference, . . . 262  Report on the Joint Meeting of the Programme and Adminis-  trative Commissions. . + + + + + + + + 0 « + + +  . 264  Discussion and adoption of the draft Appropriation Resolu-  tion + 6 2 5 + 6 4 6 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 5 + 1» » 269  Closing speeches . , . + + 0 « 2 6 5 + + + + 1 0 + > à 270  CONMDERATION AND ADOPTION OF THE REPORT  OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION (continued)  {1) The PRESIDENT (Translation): The Chairman  of the Admin{strative Commission has already pre-  sented to you section D, III, dealing with the salary  and allowance system for staff in the General Service  category at ‘Headquarters. Has this part of the  Report the approval of the Conference? If all agree,  then this part can be accepted, Approved,
1 call upon the delegate of the Byelorussian Soviet  Socialist Republic,
(2) Mr, LYNKOV (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic) (Translation from the Russian): Mr, Presi-  dent, fellow delegates, the delegation of the Byelo-  russian Soviet Socialist Republic is againat draft  resolution XX, contained in the Administrative Com-  mission's report, and wili vote accordingly, As you  know, the question of the salaries of local staff was  considered in detail at the 44th session of the Execu-  tive Board, which did not deem it necessary to re-  commend any change in Unesco's policy in that respect,  We do not at present see any reason to alter Uneaco's  policy with regard to the remuneration of its local  staff, which has been in force for several years.  Moreover resolution XX in fact provides for a reduc-  tion of the local salaries, for which there is no justi-  fication,
(3) The PRESIDENT (Translation): Do other dele-  gales want to speak on this? If not, the resolution  will be put to the vote. Will those in favour of reso-  lation XX, kindly raise their hands? Those against?  Abstentions?  The vote on resolution XX is: 32 in favour, b
249     . against, abstentions - none. The resolution is adopted,  We have now to consider section D, IV, inéluding  resolution XXI. Any remarks? If not, then I assume  that you approve of this section D. IV, along with  resolution XXI, Will those in favour please raise  their hands? Those against? Any abaientions?  The resolution is unanimously adopted,  The Chairman of the Administrative Commission  will now present the next part of the report, Section  E - Official and External Relations,
(4) Mr, DAVIES (Australia) (Chairman of the Admin-  istrative Commission): In connexion with the Com-  mission's work on Official and External Relations,  a number of changes are recommended to the Direc-  .tives concerning Unesco's relations with international  non-governmental organizations, They had already  been closely examined by the Executive Board and  are to be found on paye 30 of the Report. The Com-  mission also recommends the adoption of a new  revised text of the Directives in which these changes  are Incorporated and which would improve the pre-  sentation and numbering. This text will be found in  Annex I to the Commission's report, The resolution  you are to debate, Mr, President, is resolution XXI  on page 30,  The Commission endorsed the view of the Executive  Board that the quadrennial review of the list of inter-  national non-governmental organizations approved for  consultative arrangements with Unesco should be  deferred until an evaluation of their relations with  Unesco on the basis of the new Directives has been  made, This is resolution XXIII on page 31,  The Commission also followed the Executive Board  regarding the admission of non-governmental organ-  izations which have applied for consultative
1-23 PLENARY  arrangements with Unesco. It was said that no  recommendations could be made in the absence of  sufficient data, and the Commission accordingly  proposed that consideration of these applications be  deferred until the tenth session of the General Con-  ference. The relevant resolution is No, XXIV, on  page 32.  Lastly, in this section, the Commission recom-  mends that the General Conference approve the  renewal of a number of formal agreements with inter-  © national organizations and of a draft agreement tu be  concluded with one non-governmental organization,  This will be found in resolution XXV, page 33.
(6) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I would like to  know if the General Conference spproves of this  Section.  Section E, I, including resolution XXII, Will those  who are in favour of the resolution in Section E, I  please raise their hands? Those against? Ununi-  mously adopted.  Now I ask your approval of Section E. II and reso-  lution XXIII. Any observations? Will those In favour  please ruise their hands? Against? Any abstentions?  Unanimously adopted.  Now the next is Section E, III and resolution XXIV,  on page 32,
1 call upon the delegate of the Netherlands,
(6) Mr, de HOOG (Netherlards) (Translation from  the French): Mr, President, fellow delegates, the  Netherlands delegation feels ‘that it should draw the  attention of this meeting particularly to draft resolu-  tion XXIV in Section E, II (document 9C/24, page
32). This resolution relates to the applications made  by 34 international non- governmental organizations  for admission to consultative arrangements with  Unesco, The Commission was obliged to break off  its consideration of these applications, and conse-  quently to reçommend the General Conférence to  defer until its tenth session ail applications included  in the agenda of the ninth session.  It is no exaggeration, Mr, President, to say that  the Commission was most reluctant to submit to you  a recommendation so unsatisfactory - in point of  fact an admission that the General Conference, at its  ninth session, has failed to. deal with what is regarded  by the Netherlands delegation and, 1 feel sure, by  many other delegations, as one of the most import-  ant items on the agenda. But when the Commission  was about to embark upon the study of, .the agenda  item: "Consideration of the Executive Board's  proposals conceming the admission : Tt ‘Interaational  non-governmental organizations to consultative  arrangements’, the representative of the Executive  Board was obliged to announce that the Board had not  succeeded in drawing up any such proposals, and had  decided to transmit the documents concerning this  question to the Commission ‘without comment,  Despite this unfortunate’ circumstance, which made  its task considerably | more difficult, the Commission  felt that, in view of the great {importance to Unesco  of the ‘co-operation of the non-governmental organiza-  ions, it was in duty bound to consider the applica-  tions put before it. The delegate of Lebanon very  rightly urged the Commission to study the informa-  tion on each organization, given in the annexes to    MEETINGS  document 9C/ADM/ 17, and, without applying any.  political cHteria, to consider the case of ench  organization separately in order to determine whether  it satisfied the standards laid down in Upesco's regu-  lations and, in particular, to what exteat it was likely  to contribute to the attainment of our Organization's  lofty aims. It was while considering the first seven  or eight applications, that the Coramission realized  it had undertaken an impcssible task, It cannot be  said, Mr, President; that the data contained in the  annexes to document "ac/ADM/ 17 were ingufficlent  to provide a basis for thorçugh study; they would  have been sufficient, had they been supplemented by  a document prepared either by the Executive Board  or by the Secretariat, stating to what extent each  organization satisfied the criteria laid down, and  also to what extent it could do useful work in con-  nexion with Unesco's activities. The particulars  would have been sufficient, especially if a qualified  representative of the Director-General had been on  the spot, to reply to the quite legitimate requests for  further information put forward by several delega-  tions, The Commission was forced to the conclusion  that the Director-General was unable to answer those  questions, and the Netherlands delegation indeed  received the distressing impression that the Director-  General was not giving the question as such attention  as it appears to deserve,  It was in consideration of this situation that the  Administrative Commission, on the proposal of the  distinguished delegate of India,” who is also the  Chairman of the Executive Board, decided not to  proceed with the study it had undertaken, but to  recommend that thé Genéral Conférence hold over  all applications until itp tenth session, Mr, President,  I need not dwell on the importance of the co-operation  of the non- governmental organizations with Unesco,  I need only refer you' to the many speeches made by  the Director-General himself or by his representa-  tives on a number of occasions, ‘ Asl have béen  personally associated with the work of the non-,  governmental organizations having consultative )  arrangements with Unesco, I am well aware that °  such co-operation is a very delicate matter, calling  for close attention and great goodwill on both aides.
1 am also’ aware that, among those organizations, ‘  there are several which claim to represent mich  more than is in reality the case, But’ this is & highly  complex problem, and oñe which 1s also of vital -  importance to the success of the efforts’ being made  by our governments within thé framework of Unesco.  My delegation fears that the décision which the :  General Conference is ‘sdmitiedly’ obliged to take -  the outright deferment of all’ applications until its ‘
1958 session - will inevitably’ make a most unfortu-  nate impression, not only on those organizations  which have applied for consultative’ arrangements,’ '  but also on thosé which have already beén approved  for such arrangéments, and that it will have re-"  grettable repercussions among the general public.  The General Conference can put forward no valid  excuse to explain why Unesco should refuse to co-  operate with non-governmental organizations which ‘  have asked it to do 50 on a reciprocal basis, More--  over, tlds will appreciably weaken the already fragile  links between our intergovernmental organization and  certain non-governmental organizations, some of   PLENARY  which have long been recognized as competent and  wield a considerable influence in the sphere of edu-  cation, science ‘and culture. As the representative  of a country where, to take only one example, 75 per  cent of education is in the hands of non-governmental  institutions, 1 éannot but deplore the chilling effect  which this decipion will undoubtedly produce on large  sections of public opinion, and more especially in  circles which seem anxious to explore the possibili-  ties of fruitful co-operation with Unesco,  Mr, President, my delegation is not looking for a  scapegoat, but it is anxious at all costs to reduce as  far-as possible the unfortunate results of the present  state of affairs, and to ensure that what has happened  st this ninth session of the General Conference can  never occur again, We are convinced that, with the  increased budget to be voted by this Conference, the  Director-General will find it possible to strengthen  the section of the Secretariat which is more parti-  culerly responsible for relations with non-govern-  mental organizations, My delegation also hopes that  the Executive Board will be able to play an active  part in relations with those organizations, and that - -  for instance, by instructing one of its members to  attend the regular conferences of those non-govern-  mental organizations which have consultative arrange-  ments with Unesco - it will not only demonstrate  Unesco's interest in their activities, but will also  come fo appreciate the considerable body of know-  ledge and skill they have to offer in the very fields  in wbich our Organization is at work. My delegation  hopes that the Board will thus be better able to give  sourd guidance to the tenth session of the General  Conference in the important decisions it will be called  upon to take in this matter, We also urge that, at  future sessions of the General Conference, qualified  representatives of the Director-General be present  to supply any particulars the Conference may need to  enable it to take well informed decisions. -  Mr, President and fellow delegates, I must apolo-  gise for having taken up so much of your time with  ote particular item of the agenda, My delegation  felt it was its duty to do this, in the interest of our  Organization and in that of fruitful international co-  operation in the field of education, science and  culture.
(7) The PRESIDENT (Translation): Thank you very  much. I call upon the delegate of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republica.
(8) Mr, ZIMIN (Union of Soviet Socinlist Republics)  {Translation from the Russian): Mr, President,  fellow delegates, the draft resolutio: now before us  places the delegation of the Soviet Union in à very  difficult position, ..  We do not think it right to defer . decision, from  one session of the Conference to ths next, on the  question of granting consultative status to inter-  national organizations, many of which are thoroughly  representative and are carrying out much work  related to Unesco's aims and objectives.  I fully agree with the comment, made by the  honourable delegate of the Netherlands, that our  decision may create & most unfavourable impression  when the results of our Conference are examined  MEETINGS 11-23  work is increasing constantly, This is indicated by  the growth of the budget - the present Conference,  {or instance, has added $1,000,000 to the sum ‘  originally proposed,  From the very beginning, the Soviet delegation has  adopted a loyal attitude in regard to thia question, In  evaluating the results of our work, and particularly  that of the Programme Commi sgion, we feel that we  must put on record our ung ed support of the  Conference's decision, We consider it essential to  point out that the new aspects of Unesco's work  require not only a strengthening of its machinery, a  broadening of the Director-General's powers, but  also the fullest development of the Organization's  contacts and collaboration with the representatives  of international organizations, For this reason, we  hope that, prior to the tenth session of the General  Conference, the Director-General and Secretariat  will assemble all the data necessary to enable the  Conference, at last, to take the overdue decision -  which this session has failed to reach - on the  question of granting consultative status to these  organizations,  In view of these circumstances, the Soviet dele-  gation is obliged to abstain from voting on this reso-  lution, We hope that all the necessary measures will.  be taken to ensure a proper solution of the question  at the tenth session of the General Conference.
(9) The PRESIDENT (Translation): If there are no  other observations, this Section E, II and resolution  XXIV will now be put to the vote, Will those in favour  please raise their hands? Those against? Absten-  tions?  The result of the vote is: 48 for the resolution;
0 against; and 12 abatentions, The resolution is  adopted,  Section E. IV and resolution XXV have already been  presented, If there is no objection it can be approved.  Any objection? Unanimously adopted.  The Chairmen of the Administrative Commission  will present the next part, dealing with Legal  Questions,
(10) Mr, DAVIES (Australia) (Chairmen of the  Administrative Commission): The fina) part of the  Administrative Commission's report duals with  Legal Questions, The Commission considered  certain proposed amendmenta to the Kilea of Proce-  dure, in the light of the Executive Board's recom-  mendations on the methods of work of the General  Conference. The Commission recommends, first  of all, the abolition of the Advisory Committee on  Programme and Budget, a8 was recommended to it  by the Executive Board. The Commission also re-  commerds that à new paragraph be added to the  present Rule 36, to provide that the General Com-  mittee of the General Conference refrain from dis-  cussing the substance of any question. On the advice  of the Legal Committee, the Commission recommends  the adoption of a new Rule 73, A, to prevent a proposal  which hag been rejected by the Programme Conunis-  sicn or the Administrative Commission from being  brought up again in plenary meeting unless it has  been specifically referred to in the agenda of the   plenary meeting to which the report of the Commission  and appraised, We see that the scope of Unesco's itsel! is submitted. The relevant resolution here is XXVL
251   I-23  The Commission also discussed the possibility of  requiring : a two-thirds majority for suspension of  the Financial Regulations, .In its discussion on this  point, it noted that the provisions of the Constitution  and those of the Rules of Procedure on the require-  ment of & two-thirds majority are at present in  conflict, After referring the question to the Legal  Committee for advice; the Commission agreed, on  the recommendation of that Committee, that the dis-  crepancies at present existing should be corrected by  way of an amendment to the Constitution. It recom-  mends the replacement of Article IV, 8(a) of the Cons-  titution by a more general provision, in’line with the  .corresponding provision in the Charter of the United  Nations, which includes a general rule providing for  a simple majority, and a list of specific questions  for which a two-thirds majority would be required,  The Commission felt that the requirement of the two-  thirds majority for suspension of the Financial Regu-  lations should be added to those cases listed under  Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure. It accordingly  recommends that the Director-General and the Exe-  cutive Board be instructed to submit new texts for  the amendment of the Constitution to Member States  in time for consideration at the tenth gession of the  General Conference,
(11) The PRESIDENT (Translation): The Chairman  of the Administrative Commission has presented the  last part of his Report, F. I, including resolution  XXVI. Are there any observations on it?  If there are no objections, this part, including  resolution XXVI, can be adoptéd, Adopted.  With regard to F.1l, are thére any obgéivations?  No observations. Any objections? F.II in adopted,  Now we come to the last part, I, Ill.’ Are there  any observations? Any objections? Approved,  The whole Report of the Administrative Commis-  sion now has to be approved by the Confereace. On  the whole Report, are there any observations? Any  objections? If there are no objections, the whole  Report is adopted unanimously, with the amendments  which you accepted this morning.  If you agree, we will slightly change the order of  our proceedings, Instead of taking up document
9C/DR/133 (Rev. ) now, we shall take up the Report  of the Programme Commission - that is, document
9C/25. I call upon the Rapporteur of the Programme  Commission.  PRESENTATION OF THE REPORT OF THE  PROGRAMME COMMISSION
(12) Mr, CAMERON (Canada) (Rapporteur of the  Programme Commission): Mr, President, ladies  and gentlemen, à corrigaiidum to the Report, amended  and approved yesterday, has just been distributed to  you, It contains the corrections suggested at yester-  day's meetirig.- I have the honour to submit the draft  programma of Unusco for the years 1957 and 1958 as  it has been worked out in 35 meetings of the Pro-  gramme Commission,  In presenting this report for your consideration  and approval’, I understand there has beon a tradition  that tie Rapporteur makes a major speech in connexion  with the presentation. While I have a deep regard for
252  PLENARY MEETINGS  il  the place tradition plays in the cultural development  of society, I am going to risk your displeasure by .  breaking this particular tradition on this occasion, =  I have three good reasons for doing so,  Firstly, a good speech, like a fine wine, takes a.  long time in preparation, As you well know, the  demands on the time of the Rapporteur are such that  he has not had the time, on thie occasion at least, to  prepare a speech worthy of this distinguighed gather:  ing.  Secondly, most of you have sat through long weary  sessions of the Programme und Administrative Com- -  missions end you are familiar with the main elements  of the report; there is no need for me to make a  speech about it,  Thirdly, and probably the best reason of all, is  that by this late date in the session you have heard  all the speeches you want to hear, .  And finally, if I had any sense at all, I would be .  home in bed because 1 have acquired the father of all  colds,  While I have uo intention of making a major speech,  I think a few brief comments, summarizing some of.  the highlights of the Conference, may not be out of  place,  I think {t is clear to all of you that the work of  Unesco haa grown to the point where, in the interests  of efficiency and good public relations, it will be  necessary, before the néxt session of the Conference,  to revise and simplify some of the procedures with-  respect to the Conference itself, 1 think it {a impor-  tant that this be done apart from the obvious value '  of efficiency alone. "i.e most important reason of .  all is that the Conference is the medium through which  many important people form their impressions of -  Unesco as an Organization, In othér words, it is the  Conference, its programme, and the discussions  arising out of ‘it, and the manner in which those dis-  cussions are ‘handled, which determine the attitudes  of the delegates who must go back to their own  countries, not only with a knowledge of the aims and  ideals of Unesco, but also of how these aims and  ideals are being carried out by the Organization itself,  If the impression is a good one and the delegate goés  away innpired and enthusiastic, he will do a more  effective job of "selling" Unesco in his own country.  If he goes away with a feeling of dissatisfaction and  uncertainty, he is not going to be an effective suppôr-  ter vf Unesco or its programme,  In my introductory remacks yesterday, i made  sonie suggestions which I think may be helpful as  far ks conference procedures go, I would like to add  to those one more suggestion which I think is vitally  important, If you are going to continue the practice  of having a Rapporteur who is responsible for pre-  paring a report that is accurate, factually and in its  reporting of the sense cf the meeting, it is important  that two thinga bé done: :  (a) The Rapportiur should have available to him a  complete stenographic transcript, in one language st  least, of the discussiona which have taken place, and  he should have thet within five or six hours of the  discussion, Whether such a transcript should be made  available to all delegates is a debatable point which”  would bé influenced by the cost, My own view is that  it would not be necessary but that a précis might be  made from it, much as is the case now.   PLENARY MEETINGS  d) - The secoid point is that there should be an  Rapporteur s0 that the work can be divided,  y nid cén attend three meetings a day; running -  à 9,30 in the morning until 10,30 or 11 o'clock  night, sid éxpe ct to make an scclirdte and intelli-  coût serpéetation of the discussions without the  jons I have suggested, © The time his passed,  ‘and the programme has grown too big and diversified,  for the old procedure to be effective,  A to tas programme itself, I think there’ can be no  mént on the fact that it the desiie of the  delegutés that the efforts of the staff ahd the expend-  turd of the resources shall bé concentrated on fewer,  large? and more important projects - projects of  substihce in which practical and concrete results  make their impact on the people in the areas con-.  corded, It Le for this reason that the programe in  techiical asnistance, fundamental education, exten-  sion of primary education in Latin America, the arid  zone project and the project on mutual appreciation  of Eastern and Western cultural values have won the  miversal commendation of the Conference. Those  projects in themselves ara ail big encugh and  nging enough to return such dividenda to the  les of the world, if carried out with energy and  imagination, that the name of Unesco will be fore-  ever blessed,  Because the subjects of education, cultural activis  tides and mass commimication are so large, so diffuse  añd so interdependeiit, it is \+ry easy to fall into the  trap of dissipating oùr Umited resources in trying  to do à myrléd small things, all good in themselves,  bit which vitiate the energies and resources required  for the major programmes which, if successful, will  themselves help to make the smaller projects a  reality at a later time,  Human nature 18 much the same the world over; it  ie iinpréssed with results which are tangible and  visible fo all, and it would appear thät, in agicèing  to dre ‘major ‘emphasis on the mote practical  cts, the ninth session of the Conference has  a wise dacision,  Risa healthy and encoursging sign that thé project  which has caught the imagination of ail people 58 to an  añasing degree 18 the Sie on mutual appreciation of  Radterti and Western cultural values. The côhception  hyo rt i is icent, and it could be the  ch, in'thé next 10 or 16 yesrs, will make  en grestest contribution’, ‘of all, ‘The earnestness |  discussions pris op the ‘theme of mutual  ending. and €                 timed Sincere for ised  ; What is true of all intérriational. conforsices 1  true of this’ ond! ‘ that dhe of the most important  iNedits tè com out of It is the opportunity 1t hia |  for people from 76 countries td sit sound  same conférence table, and to get fo know each  othbt ab individuals over! couñtless dinner {ables and  où visits ‘add tours. ‘There is rio substitute for the  +to-face meeting of péople and of minds, ‘and one  major objectives of Uñèscô should be to foster  al pings in every way possible this international         rom usion to this introduction, may I extend my  personal thanks to Mrs, "Myrdal for her skill in
253  u-23  making my task easier by her magnificent chairman-  ship, carried out with a gracious digiity seldom -  equalled, ' May I thank too, Mr, Ochs, aid particu-  Jarly Mr, and Mrs; Berkeley who, under trying and  difficult circumstances, have made it possible to  produce this report, which; in'the limitations of  time and staff, is a substantial effort: : .:  Finally, 1 want to ‘compliment those who were  responsible for bringing the ninth session of the  General Conference to India, ‘ Long after the Corri-  genda, Addenda and DRs and VRs are forgotien, we  shall remember the kindness and courtesies of the  Indian people. We shall go home inspired by the  great creative work in nation-building which we see  on every hand, - Wé shall go home inspired with a  new sense of the importance of Unesco because we  have seen, in South Asia, something of the monu-  mental task that Unesco has to do - a task big enough  to stir the imagination and fire the ideals of men. -  A well known American architect, speaking of the  building of thé cities of tomorrow, some years ago  penned thése lines, and I give them to you in closing  because I think they suggest the philosophy we should  adopt and the imaginative approach we need to make  of Unesco thé powerful instrument for human welfare  that it can and must be,’ The lines dre these: "Make  no small plans; they hold no magic to atir men's  blood". If we approach our tasks in carrying out  the aims and ideals of Unesco in that spirit ol ima-  gination and daring, we may yet succeed in making  Unesco itself a major project in mutual understanding  and peaceful co-operation, -  With that introduction, Mr, President, 1 move the  adoption of this Report as amended,
(13) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I thank ‘the  Rapporteur for his excellent statement and now ask  the Director-Genéral to make à few observations,
(14) - Thé DIRECTOR-GENERAL: Mr,‘ ‘President,  although 1 usually read Unesco documents, I have had  no time to read this ohe and I wonder if delegates -  have done no; snd; if ao, whether they have fitted  inthe fragments of the corrigendum with the Report  itself, 1 wonder if the Coriferéence would not be  willing to adopt the resolutions chapter by chapter  and to note tho Report. 1 think that if you were to  sdopt the Rejcrt word by. word, you would neéd more  time than is now available for that purpose,
(16) The: PRESIDENT (Translation): ‘Does the Con-  fereiice agrée withthe suggestion of the Diréctor- -  General that,” #o far as the Report is concerned, we  just note? So far as the hesolutions abe édliceimed,  we take them chapter by chapter for approval, The  delégate of Ecuador. .
(16) Mr. MARTINEZ COBO > (Beusdor) (Tanslition  froth the Bpaiish): - Mr. President, gentleman,  documeit 9C/25 hid riot yet been issued in Spanish  nor, 1 believe, in died I quite appreciate that  the heavy work load with which the Secretariat has -  had to côpé as à result of the fact that the nieetings  of the Programme Comniission concluded only &  very short timé ago has made it impodsible for that  document fo be ready for presentation to the Géneral  Conference in ‘ail four working languages. But I also
11-23  think that it is very difficult for the Spanish and  Russian-sp2aking delegations to comment on a paper  that has not been circulated in their languages.  I have been informed that the document will soon be  available in all fuÿr working languages, and would  therefore suggest thai we postpone the discusaion of  this important question and, meanwhile, proceed  with some other item of the agenda.
(17) The PRESIDENT (Translation)! The position is  being checked up, Presumably the Director-  General's suggestion that you take note of the Report  was precisely because the documents are not avail-  able just now, So far as the resolutions are concerned,  they have been before you in the original programme  document and have also been discussed in detail in  tie Programme Commission, Therefore you will be  in a position to give an opinion with regard to the  resolutions,  We are awaiting the Spanish and Russian versions  of the Report of the Programme Commission, and  we may perhaps take up another item on the agenda!  Consideration of draft resolution on Directives for  Future Activities (document 9C/DR/133 (Revw)),  presented by the delegations of Australia, Brazil,  France, India, Iran, Italy, Japan, Lebanon, Vene-  zuela, United States of America. I call upon the  delegate of Australia,  CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION ON  DIRECTIVES FOR FUTURE ACTIVITIES
(18) Mr. WEEDEN (Australia): Mr, President,  fellow delegates, Australia is one of ten countries  suppoiting this resolution, Its supporters come  from every continent, and we present it as one which  we think will assist the Board, the Director-General  and the Organization in the achievement of Unesco's  objectives. The resolution consists of two parts:  the first section which looks backwards, and the  second and third sections which look forward,  In the resolution, 9C/DR/133 (Rev, ), in front of  you, we will, if we adopt that first section, congra-  tulate and express our appreciation to the Executive  Board on the part it has played, particularly since  the Montevideo Conference, in assisting the develop-  ment of the planning and execution of our programme,  We will at the same time, we believe, express our  appreciation of the work done by the members of the  Board whose term of office has ended.  ‘In the second and third sections, we will be suggest-  ing to the new Board some of the ways in which the  delegations which support this resolution - and we  hope the entire Conference - believe the Board can,  in the next two years, help us, in co-operaiion with  the Director-General, in the formulation, the more  precise formulation and execution of our programme.  You will notice that the second section of this  resolution, II, reads: "Noting the intereit aroused  in Member States by the Major Projects, requests  the Executive Board to pay special attention to the  ‘preparation and execution of the Mejor Projects,  which constitute the main feature of the remodelling  of the programme approved at the eighth session of  the General Conference". As the sponsors of this  resolution, we believe that the work at Montevideo,
254  PLENARY MEFTINGS  followed for the past two years and now carried on  by this Conference, has given us a sense of excite-  mment and a sense of possible achievement which adde  something new to Unesco, We balieve that these.  major projects, if they can be developed satisfactorily,  can make a real contribution, by far the most signi-  ficant contribution that Unesco has yet made; but we  believe that they can only make that contribution if  both the Board and the Directos-General, as well as  the Member States, pay special attention to their  preparation and execution, Some of us, of course,  are in favour of rapid execution, others are in  favour - and have so spoken - of careful preparation,  We can leaye it, we hope, to the Board and the  Director-General to see that the demands of those  who want action are met as far as is consistent with  the views expressed by others in favour of careful  planning, That, then, is the first, forward-looking,  part of our resolution,  The second is divided into several sections and  provides, we belleve, a directive for the Board's  activity which will enable it to show the tenth session  of the Conference ways in which we can improve, not  only the planning, but also the operation of our pro-  gramme,  In II and III (a) we ask the Board {o study "major  problems facing the Organization with regard to the  execution of its programme and the future develop-  ment of its work", and to pay particular attention to  "the extent to which Member States discharge their  responsibilities for action as regards those aspects  of the programme appropriate for action by Member  States", Membership of Unesco places on its  Member States many obligations; some obligations  arise from the Constitution, some arise explicitly  and directly from the programme, others arise  implicitly, Let the Board, we say, co-operate with  the Director-General, let the Board, which has on  it now representatives of 24 of our Member States,  examine the extent to which Member States are able,  in fact, to diacharge those responsibilities arising  from their membership, from our Constitution and  from our programme,  In III (b) we have invited the Board to examine  "policy as regards the execution of the programme  in locations away from headquarters", as Unesco is  establishing many important outposts, We have our  Fundamental Education Centres, our special Insti-  tutes, our Field Science Co-operation Offices, We  would ‘like, and you will ask the Board - if you adopt  this resolution - in particular, in co-operation with  the Director-Genaral, to study the policy most  appropriate as regards the execution of the projects  and the programme where there are locations away  from Headquarters,  Item (c), the third part of our third section,  instructs the Board to study "policy as regards con-  sultation with National Commissions", There again,  there are many aspects which can be examined; and  we hope that the Board will find the time, and the  Director-General will be able to assist it ir. making  this study.  In the fourth item, IL (d), the Board is asked to  study particularly "policy as regards the composi-  tion and functions of advisory committees". Unesco  has considerable experience of these - of various  types and appointed for various times, Some   PLENARY MEETINGS I1-23  advisory committees appear to some delegations to  be very successful; others appear to other delegs-  tions to be very successful, We would liken the Board,  with the Director-General, to look at their working  and the kind of job which {t is most appropriate to  entrust to this kind of mechinery; how the Organize-  tion can best consult with the advisory committees  and how they can best consult with the many non-  governmental organizations now associated with our  programme,  Finally, fellow delegates, in III (e), it is proposed  that we should ask the Board to examine with the  Director-General any policy problems as regards  the co-ordination of Unesco's work with other organs  of the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies,  The Board will, in that alone, have an extensive  field for study,  In proposing this resolution, we hope to present to  the new Board an opportunity for contributing, as  have its predecessors, to the planning and execution  of our work, and we hope that this resolution,  document 8C/DR/133 (Rev. ), 10 one which will be  acceptable to all delegations.
(18) The PRESIDENT (Translation): Does anyone  wish to speak on this resolution? Are there any  objections? Otherwise can we take it that the reso-  lution is unanimously accepted? The resolution is  unanimously adopted,  CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORT OF THE  PROGRAMME COMMISSION  {20) The PRESIDENT (Translation): By now, copies  in Russian and Spanish of the Report of the Pro-  gramme Commissiori have been distributed, but L  very much doubt if members have had any opportu-  nity of doing anything more than merely looking at  the Report, In view of that, perhaps the suggestion  of the Director-General that we note the Report and  take up the resolutions and approve them is tha only  practical way of dealing with the situation. Are the  delegates agreeable to this suggestion, that the  Report be merely noted, and that we take up the  resolutions, chapter by chapter, and debate them?  Any objection to this suggestion? No? Then we  shall follow that method.  We take it that, so far as the Report is concerned,  the Conference has merely noted the Report, and we  shall now take up the resolutions chapter by chapter.  In the English text you will find the resolutions in  the Education Chapter on page 3. Resolution 1. 11,  It is the same as in document 8C/5. Since the reso-  lution was not amended in the discussion in the Pro-  gramme Commission, can it be assumed that you  all approve of the resolution? No objections? |  .1 call upon the delegate of Spain. ,
(21) MF, ESTELRICH (Spain) (Translation from the  Spanish}: Mr. President, gentlemen, the President  {s wondering whether we have had time to run through  the Programme Commission's report, the Spanish  version of which has just been distributed. Of course  we have not yet been able to read it, but we can see  at a glance that the part which concerns the Depart-  ment of Education is missing in the Spanish text,
255  although it appears in the others, as we have found by  checking with the French version,  I therefore ask the President whether it would be  possible to let us have, in the course of the discus-  sion, at least the resolutions relating to that Depart-  ment,
(22) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I am very sorry  to hear this, but we shall just pass over the Education  section and go on to Natural Sciences, We will take  up Education later. -  The first resolution you will find on page 2 -  resolution 2, 11 - paragraph (11) of Natural Sciences,  Resolutions 2, 11 and 2, 12 have come unscathed  through the Programme Commission, If there is no  objection, can we take it that resolution 2, I, inclu  ding both its parts, is approved by the Conference?  Any objections? Resolution 2,1 is approved.  Resolution 2, 21, after "paragraph 22 (b}", on  page 3 of Natural Sciences. .Resolution 2, 2, "Improve-  ment of scientific documentation, On 2, 21 there  have been no changes in the Programme Commission;  can we take it that 2, 21 ia approved? Any objections?  If there are no objections, resolution 2. 21 is adopted,  Resolution 2, 31 (as in 9C/5 Corr. 1), On Resolu-  tion 2, 31, the Rapporteur has one or two observations,
(23) Mr, CAMERON (Canada) (Rapporteur of the  Programme Commission): After resolution 2, 31,  paragraph {F) to read: ‘to participate in the activi-  ties of Member States, at their request, in connexion  with the humid tropical zone, the marine sciences,  and the peaceful uses of atomic energy",
(24) The PRESIDENT (Translation): Any comments  on this? Any objections? Then we take it that  resolution 2, 31 {8 approved,  On page 4 of Natural Sciences there is a reference  to document 9C/PRG/1 and to document 9C/DR/29,  which was approved, as amended in debate; and  there is a resolution without any number. The reso-  lution is in seven paragraphs, . Any comment on this  resolution? If there are no comments, any objec-  tions? Thia resolution, then, we take as adopted.  The next resolution 2, 41, "Promotion of Science",  which follows immediately after the resolution we  have just passed, Any comments on this resolution?  Any objections? Resolution 2. 41 js adopted.  Immediately after 2. 41, there is another unnum-  bered resolution, based on document 9C/DR/15 -  “International Met of historical scientific instruments",  Any comments on this? If there are no objections,  this is also adopted, .  Resolution 2,51, Any comments? Any objections?
2, 51 1s also adopted, ‘  The next resolution is 2, 61, dealing with scientific  research on arid lands, Any comments? Any objec-  tions? This resolution is also adopted.  The section on Education has now been produced.  We can therefore go back to the Chapter on Educa-  tion. Resolution 1,1: "Co-operation with inter-  national organizations and institutions”. This is in  two parts, resolution 1.11 and 1,12. Any observa-  tions? I call upon the delegate of the United States  of America.
(25) Mr. SPILHAUS (United States of America):
11-23  Mr, President; fellow delegates, we in the United  States believe that it is ordinarily a bad practice to  reopen, in plenary meeting, decisions that have been  taken in one of the Commissions of the Conference,  It has been, and will be, rare when the United States  violates this principle, However, at an early morning  meeting of the Programme Commission, when attend-  ance was poor, the Commission, after a series of  confusing moves - at least confusing to me - apparent-  ly voted by 16 to 14, with a number of abstentions, to  equalize Unesco's subvention support for two organ-  izations of the teaching profession, These two are!  the Joint Committee of International Teachers! Fede-  rations and the World Confederation of Organizations  of the Teaching Profession, The money involved is  not as significant as the prinoiple. ‘The two organiza-  tions are not, indeed, equal, The World Confedera-  tion of Organizations of the Teaching Profession re-  presents more than 3,000,000 teachers in more than
40 nations, It is fully organized to represent teachers  and to act effectively and in full support of Unesco,  and it has a budget of its own of more than $40,000  for the coming year, It includes a large proportion  of the teachers who are in the constituent organiza-  tions of the Joint Committee itself, The Joint Com-  mittee, on the other hand, was not formed until 1948,  It is a co-ordinating or llalson committee and not  an action body, Two of îts three constituent bodies  ave now represented before Unesco through ihe World  Confederation, and thus these two have a dual channel  to Unesco.  I do not propose, at this late hour, to slow up the  plenary meeting by making an amendment at thie  time, but I would just wish to state, for the record,  that it is manifestly unfair to the great body of  teachers throughout the world to treat these two  organizations equally.
(26) The PRESIDENT (Translation): Any other  observations? I call upon the delegate of Liberia,
(27) Mr, MASSAQUOI (Liberia): Mr, President,  fellow delegates, 1 wish here to support the position  just stated by the delegate of the United States of  America with reference to the subventions granted  to the Joint Committee and to the World Confedera-  tion of Organizations of the Teaching Profession,  I also feel that, as the subventions for these two  bodies shown in the programmé document were not  equal and às, during the discussion in the Programme  Commission, the consensus of opinion was largely in  favour of thaintaining, and even increasing, the sub-  vention tojthe World Confederation of Organizations  of the Tekching Profession, the subsequent action of  the Programme Commission, in accepting a propo-  sition to equalize these two bodies, ia unfair, and may  have been taken under some confusion,  I reiterate, the Government of Liberia does not  approve of the attempt that is being. made by certain  non-governmental organizations to create what I have  referred to in the Programme Commission as a  vertical concentration of power, which is contrary  ‘to the character of what an international non-govern-  mental organization should be. An international non-  governmental organization should spread all over the  world, should be horizontal, For that reason I also  wish to protest for the record, and feel that it is
266     PLENARY MEETINGS  quite unfair for an organization representing millions  of teachers all over the world, in Africa, Asia,  Latin America, the United States and Canada, and in  other parts of the world, to be given the same sub-  vention as a body which is powerful vertically but whic  is, in effect, not doing much work all over the world,
(28) The PRESIDENT (Translation): It is to be noted  that neither the delegate of the United States of  America, nor the delegate of Liberia hag made any  specific suggestion, I call upon the delegate of the  United Kingdom,
(28) Mr, SHEARMAN (United Kingdom): Mr, Presi-  dent, as you havé pointed out, neither of the two  previous speakers has moved a suggestion and, at  this very late stage in thé proceedings, I do not  think it would be helpful to do so, But I do feel that
1 ought to support what has been sald by the delegates  of the United States of America and Liberia, There  is a very clear impression in my mind - as, | am  sure, in the minds of a great many other delegates  who were assiduous in their attendance at the Pro-  gramme Commission - that, In a very full debate we  had on the general queation the day before this vote  was taken, the overwhelming feeling of the Commis-  sion was that the major organization in this field was  the World Confederation and that it should receive  some additional assistance, as proposed by the  Director-General, I am quite clear in my mind, and  when I am asked about it on my return home, I shall  have to explain that there is no doubt that that was  the general feeling of the Coiiference, The vote was  taken before the Programme Commission was fully  assembled the next morning, with very low participa-  tion, and it seems to me regrettable that these two  organizations have been equated in this way, 1am  not saying that the work of either is not useful, but  I do say that the most representative of the major  organizations and the one we should have wished to  have had a greater measure of support, was undoubt-  edly the World Confederation,
(30) The PRESIDENT (Translaticn): This also will  be noted, Any other observations? The delegate of  France,
(31) Mr, LAUGIER (France) (Translation from the  French): Mr, President, I shall not be accused of  having monopolized the platform , and today I would  like to thank the representative of the United States  of America for having refrained from preeenting a  motion, from reopening the discussion at a plenary  meeting, for I do not think a'discussion of this kind  should be reopened at a public meeting. I must, how-  ever, protest against the attitude of those who, when  they disagree with a motion, try to make out that it  was adopted by the Commission in an atmosphere of  confusion. It was nothing of the kind - the Commis-  sion discussed the matter thoroughly and at consider-  able length before voting, and its vote represents a  significant and binding decision,  The colleague who spoke last said he would go home  and report that opinion in the Commission had been  overwhelming. I do not think that opinion in the Com-  miesion was overwhelming; in actual fact, as I see  it, we have two associations, one of them old,   PLENARY  European, and tiot very rich, but having very wide  contacts and doitig éxtremély useful work; the other  an organization w;th American headquarters; whose  activity ia world wide and which, as you will not be  particularly surprised to hear, is very powerful and  very influential, “Well, if we decide to grant sub-  ventions to the rowerful associations and withhold  them from the ‘weak ones, ! know where we shall end  up: a few yeai's hence we shall be given no more sub-  ventions at all,’ éxcept to the Ford Foundation or the  Rockefeller Foundation!
1 am giving my views here, in the hope that they  will appear in the records: I am making no proposal,  but ! wish it to be known that the opinion expressed  by our colleagues, however judicious and interesting,  was not unanimous,
(32) The PRESIDENT (Translation): If there are no  other observations on resolution 1, 1, in ita two parts
1,11 and 1, 12, and no objections, these two resolu-  tions are approved, No objections? Adopted.  We now take resolution 1, 21, Any comments? Any  objections? Adopted,  Resolution 1, 22, after "paragraph 27", Any com-  ments? Any objections? Adopted.  The next resolution is 1,31, Any comments? Any  objections? Resolution 1, 31 is adopted,  Resolution 1, 32. Any comments? Any objections?  Adopted,  Resolution 1, 41 - after "paragraph 130" on page 6  of the English text. Any comments? Any objections?  Adopted,  Resolution 1, 42. Any comments? Any objections?  Adopted,  Resolution 1, 43. Any comments? Any objections?  Adopted.  Resolution 1, 51 on Adult Education, page 7 of the  English text, Any comments? Any objections?  Adopted.  Resolution 1, 61, immediately after paragraph
183", page 8 of the English text. Any comments?  Any objections? Adopted.  Resolution 1, 71 after “paragraphs 202-203", Any  comments? Any objections? Adopted.  Resolution 1, 72, after “paragraph 214".  The Director-General,
(33) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: Mr. President, if  this resolution is approved, the Conference should  add to the resolution approved this morning on the  Working Capital Fund, so as to make the Fund avail-  able not only for meeting requests from the United  Nations, etc. but also for carrying out the activities  referred to in resolution 1. 72,  I would like to ask you, Mr, President, after you  put this resolution to the vote, to take a vote also on  the addition of certain words at the end of the resolu-  tion on the Working Capital Fund, which was passed  vor morning - words which are contained in document
(34) The PRESIDENT (Translation): Are there any  comments on resolution 1. 72? Any objections? If  there is no objection to resolution 1, 72, it is adopted.  We now come to the resolution about the Working  Capital Fund in document 8C/24, where the Director-  General will propose an addition.  MEETINGS
(35) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: Mr, President, let  me call your attention to document 9C/24 that you had  before you this morning and part of the afternoon, the  Report of the Administrative Commission, . You have  there, after paragraph 21 of document 9C/24, reso-  lution VI,- This resolution enumerates the uses which  may be made of the Working Capital Fund, Paragraph
2(a) says! "requests made by the United Nations  specifically related to emergencies connected with  the maintenance of peace and security’, You should  add: "or any activities provided for by resolution
1,72", That would bring this resolution into line  with the one you have just adopted,
(36) The PRESIDENT (Translation): This resolution  wae approved in the morning, and now the Director-  General suggests that, in view of our acceptance of  resolution 1, 72, a slight modification of this resolu-  tion is necessary, Are there any comments on tuis?  Any objections?  Then the modification proposed by the Director-  General is adopted,  Now we come back to the Programme Commission  again, that is to resolution 1,91, Major Project 1, À.  I call upon the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socia-  list Republica.
(37) Mr, ZIMIN {Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  (Translation from the Russien)! Mr, President,  fellow delegates, the Soviet delegation has a few  remarks to make on the Belgian resolution concerning  emergency educational assistance to Egypt and  Hungary. Although this resolution links together two  countries where totally different types of events have  occurréd, the Soviet delegation voted for it because  the Belgian delegation explained, when submitting  the draft resolution, both in the General Committee  and in the Programme Commission, that their pro-  posal had no political implications but was inspired  solely by the humanitarian aim of helping the children  of those countries; this resolution was designed to  bring about the practical attainment of that aim, which  has the approval of the Soviet delegation. Interpreting  the resolution in that sense, the Soviet delegation  voted for it, deeming it inopportune to reopen the  debate which had already taken place in our plenary  meeting. 1 wish my statement to be considered as  an explanation of our vote,
(38) The PRESIDENT (Translation): The delegate of  El Salvador,
(39) Mt, BARON CASTRO (El Salvador) (Translation  from the Spanish): Mr, Président, fellow delegates,  resolution 1, 91 is preceded by a recommendation  which reads: "The Programme Commission noted  the relevant portions of the report of the Working  Party on major Prôjects. With reférerice to para-  graph 11 (iif), dealing with thé intergovernmental  Advisory Committee, the Commission recommended  that this Committee ‘should be composed of 12 members  from the participating countries, selected by the  Executive Board, it being understood that other  countries in the region wishing to participaté in the  meetings of the Committee could do so. The Com-  mission further decided that the Committee should  also include representatives of the Organization of   n-23  American States, the Caribbean Commission and  Unesco", ‘  The delegation of El Salvador proposes the insertion  of the words "Ibero-American Bureau of Education"  in the last line, after "Organization of American  States’, Thus the intergovernmental Advisory Com-  mittee would be assisted by representatives not only  of Unesco but of those other intergovernumental bodies,  the Organization of American States, the Ibero-  American Bureau of Education and the Caribbean  Commission,  The Ibero-American Bureau of Education is an  intergovernmental body, duly represented at this  Conference and having at the moment 13 Member  States:- Colombia, Costa Rica, Chile Dominican  Republic, Ecuador, El Salvadox, Guatemala, Nica-  ragua, Faraguay, Peru, Philippines, Spain and  Venezuela, All the member countries of the Ibero-  American Bureau of Education are interested in the  major project, and twelve of them will benefit by it;  it will therefore be extremely useful for the educa-  tional body they have set up to co-operate with the  Advisory Committee, Accordingly I think that the  Bureau's technical collaboration should be accepted,  especially as negotiations for co-operation between  Unescp and the Ibero-American Bureau of Education  are already in progress, as stated in the Director-  General's report, and this might well be the first  matter in which practical collaboration between these  two intergovernmental organizations could be ingti-  tuted,
(40) The PRESIDENT (Translation): Thank you,  Now with regard to resolution 1, 81, are there any  otber observations? Any objections? We will take  it that this is not an amendment in a formal sense but  a suggestion about the work plan; therefore that has  already been noted by the Director-General and we  can have a vote on resolution 1,91, Is anyone against  resolution 1,917 If there are no other observations  and no objections tn resolution 1, 81, it is adopted,  That finishes the chapter on Education.  Then we come to the Social Sciences chapter. The  resolution is unnumbered; it will be found on page 2  of the Social Sciences Section, immediately after  paragraph (5). This resolution is also only for in-  formation, I am told, Any observations? Does any  delegate wish to speak? The delegate of Chile,
(41) Mr. LAGOS (Chile) (Translation from the  Spanish): Mr. President, on page 1 of the Social  Sciences chapter, there is à reference to two rego-  lutions approved under that head, 3, 52(D) and 3. D2(B),  relating to the establishment of two social science  centres in Latin America, one in Brazil and the other  fn Chile, When the Programme Commission approved  these two resolutions, it was clearly understood that  $120,000 would be made available to those two centres.  This was a straightforward decision, giving the  Director-General instructions, to be carried out in  the usual way, to bring about the establishment and  operation of those two centres. In addition, certain  delegations, those of France and Canada in particular,  expressed the desire that Unesco's contribution should  not exceed one-third of the total cost of the two cen-  tres, the remaining two-thirds being provided by the |  participating countries, This, however, was simply
258     PLENARY MEETINGS  a wish; there was no formal decision but only,  I repeat, a statement of a desirable objective,  Yesterday, when we discussed the Programme Com-  mission's report, the delegation of Chile made the  same remark and, after a statement from the Spanish  delegation, the matier s¢emed perfectly clear,  Nevertheless, in the preiient, revised text the same  error remains, Among the amendments on page 5  of document 9C/25, we find: "Introduction (2) - from  line 10 read: ‘on the understanding that Unesco would  provide financial assistance for a four-year period  beginning in 1958 and that its contribution, within  budgetary mit, would be on the basis of one-thi  of the cost, two-thirds being provided by participa- .  ting couniries'",  I should like, Mr, President, to move the following  amendment, in accordance with what we had decided:  insert a full stop after 1958 and then say "It would be  desirable that its contribution, within the budgetary  limit, should be on the basis of one-third of the cost,  two-thirds being provided by participating countries",  Thie new wording would be perfectly in line with what  was agreed, or, in other words, with the desire ex-  pressed by some delegations for such a procedure;  but the wording cannot possibly be left as it is, for  it converts the simple expression of a wish into a  formal decision,  Accordingly I ask the Secretariat to amend the  wording on page 5 in the manner I have suggested.
(42) The PRESIDENT (Translation): The Rapporteur,
(43) Mr, CAMERON (Canada) (Rapporteur of the  Programme Commission): Mr, President, the  delegate of Chile has not noted the amendment on  page 5 of the corrigendum, after resolution 3, 52,  That can be accepted if it is agreeable to the dele-  gate.
(44) The PRESIDENT (Translation): The delegate  of Chile.
(45) Mr, LAGOS (Chile) (Translation from the  Spanish}: Mr, President, I know that corrections  to the decisions regarding the two social science  centres appear on page 5, but they relate only to the  $120,000, which are specifically mentioned. That ls  all very well, but it is no less true that the amend-  ment on page 5 still presents the provision for the  one-third and two-thirds contributions as a formal  decision instead of a desirable objective,  That is why I have proposed the Insertion of a full  gtop after 11858" and the addition of the words "It  would be desirable ...', or in French, "Il serait  souhaitable".
(46) The PRESIDENT (Translation): The Rapporteur  accepts this suggestion, Having noted that, are there  any other comments on resolution 3.11? If there  are no other comments or objections can we take it  that resolution 3. 11 is approved? Adopted,  Resolution 3, 12 - top of page 4 in the English text,  Any observations? Any objections? Resolution 3.12  is adopted,  Resolution 3, 21, Documentation and Information  Services. Any observations? Any objections?  Resolution 3. 21 is adopted.   Resolution 3, 22. Any observations?  tions? Resolution 3. 22 is adopted.  Resolution 3, 31.  ona? Adopted,  Resolution 3. 32.  tions? Adopted.  Resolution 3. 41,  tions? Adopted,  Resolution 3, 42,  tions? Adopted,  Any observations?  Any observations?  Any observations?  Any observations?  PLENARY  Any objec-  Any objec-  Any objec-  Any objec-  Any objec-  There is an unnumbered resolution on page 6 of the  English text, immediately following resolution 3, 42,  Any objections? Adopted.  Any objections? Any observa-  Any observations?  Resolution 3. 51.  tions? Adopted,  Resolution 3, 52,  tons? Adopted,  Resolution 3. 61,  tions? Adopted.  Resolution 3. 62.  tions? Adopted,  Resolution 3, 71,  tions? Adopted.  Resolution 3, 72.  tions? Adopted,  Resolution 3, 81,  tions? Adopted,  Resolution 3, 82,  tions? Adopted.  Resolution 3, 91,  tions? Adopted.  Resolution 3. 92,  tions? Adopted,  Resolution 3. 93.  tions? Adopted,  Resolution 3, 94.  tions? Adopted,  Resolution 3. 101,  tions? Adopted,  Resolution 3, 102,  tions? Adopted,  Resolution 3, 103,  tions? Adopted.  Resolution 3, 11.  flons? Adopted.  Any observations?  Any observations?  Any observations?  Any observations?  Any observations?  Any observations?  Any observations?  Any observations?  Any observations?  Any observations?  Any observations?  Any objec-  Any objec-  Any objec-  Any objec-  Any objec-  Any objec-  Any objec-  Any objec-  Any objec-  Any objec-  Any objec-  Any observations? Any objec  Any observations? Any objec  Any observations? Any objec  Any observations? Any objec-  That finishes the section on Social Sciences,  Now we come to Cultural Activities.  resolution is on page 3 of the Cultural Activities  Section of the document, English text,  Resolution 4, 11,  tions? Adopted.  Resolution 4. 12,  tions? Adopted.  Resolution 4. 21,  tions? Adopted,  Resolution 4, 31.  tions? Adopted.  Resolution 4. 32.  tions? Adopted.  Resolution 4, 33  English text.  Adopted,  Resolution 4, 34. Any observations? Any objec-  Any observations?  Any observations?  Any observations?  Any observations?  Any observations?  The first  Any objec-  Any objec-  Any objec-  Any objec-  Any objec-  - this fs on page 6 of the  Any observations? Any objections?  tions? The resolution is adopted with one abstention  (United States of America).  Resolution 4, 51.  tions? Adopted,  Any observations? Any objec-  MEETINGS
11-23  Resolution 4,52, Any observations? Any objec-  tions? Adopted.  There is, immediately after resolution 4.52, a  reference to document 9C/DR/128, the operative  paragraph of which is quoted here, Are there any  observations on that resolution? Any objections?  Adopted.  Then there is a resolution, unnumbered (document
9C/PRG/10), at the bottom of page 7 in the English  text of Cultural Activities, relating to an "'Inter-  national Centre for the Study of the Preservation and  Restoration of Cultural Property", Any observations?  Any objections? Adopted, .  Immediately after that there is one which reads as  follows: "The Commission also approved the follow-  ing amendment to Article 3 of thé above appendix:  amend last sentence to read: "Admission to Asso-  ciate Membership shall be by decision of the Council,  taken by a two-thirds majority, on the recommenda-  tion of the Executive Board of Unesro'", Are there  any observations on that? Any objections? Adopted,  Then the Commission approved the following reso-  lution, again an unnumbered resolution - "The  General Conference authorizes the Director-General  to conclude with the Italian Government and to sign  the agreement, the text of which is contained in  Annex II of document 9C/PRG/10", Any observa-  tions? Any objections? Adopted.  Resolution 4, 61, Any comments?  Adopted,  Resolution 4, 62,  Adopted.  Resolution 4. 63,  Adopted.  Resolution 4, 64.  Adopted.  Resolution 4, 65,  Adopted,  After that, there is document 9C/DR/18 (Rev, ) as  an instruction to the Secretariat; there is no vote  needed on that; we shall just note it,  On the next page, draft resolution 9C/DR/19, You  have the text of the operative paragraph, Any com-  ments? Any objections? Adopted,  Next is document 9C/DR/49, which was approved  as an instruction to the Secretariat, No vote on that  is needed.  Resolution 4, 71 on page 11 of the English text on  Cultural Activities. Any comments? Any objections?  Adopted.
1 call upon the Rapporteur.  Any objections?  Any comments? Any objections?  Any comments? Any objections?  Any comments? Any objections?  Any comments? Any objections?
(47) Mr. CAMERON (Canada) (Rapporteur of the  Programme Commission): Section (C) of resolution
4, 72 should be deleted.
(48) The PRESIDENT (Translation): Resolution 4, 72,  consisting of only (A) and (B). Any observations on  that? Any objections? Adopted.  Resolution 4, 73, Any observatlons? Any objec-  tions? Adopted.  Resolution 4, 74. Any observations? Any objec-  tions. Adopted, ‘  "Paragraph 237", resolution contained in document
9C/PRG/PROV, /4 - an unnumbered resolution. Any  observations? Any objections? Adopted.  Major Project 4A - document 9C/PRG/PROV, /2 -
11-23 PLENARY  the resolution is given here on page 14 of the English  text on Cultural Activities, Any observations? Any  objections? Adopted.  That completes the resolutions on Cultural Activities.  Now we come to Mass Communication,  The first resolution is on page 4 of the English text  of the section on Mass Communication,  Resolution 5,11. Any observetions? Any objec-  tions? Adopted,  Resolution 5, 12,  tions? Adopted,
9C/PRG/17, on page 5 of the English text of the  report on Mass Communication - "Decides to convene  © a meeting of governmental éxperts of Member States  and Contracting Parties to the Agreement on the  Importation of Educational, Scientific and Cultural  Materials, as proposed by the Director-General in  the above-mentioned report", Any observations?  Any objections? Adopted.  Paragraph 25" (document 9C/PRG/16 as amended  by document 9C/DR/67) - unnumbered resolution,  Any observations? Any objections? Adopted,  Any observations? Any objec-  Resolution 5, 21. Any observations? Any objec-  tions? Adopted,  Resolution 5, 22, Any observations? Any objec-  tions? Adopted,  Resolution 6, 31, Any observations? Any objec-  tions? Adopted,  Resolution 5,32. Any observations? Any objec-  tions? Adopted.  Resolution 6, 33, Any observations? Any objec-  tions? Adopted,  Resolution 6, 34, Any observations? Any objec-  tions? Adopted,
9C/DR/39 is an instruction to the Secretariat, no  vote is needed.  "Paragraph 111" (document 9C/DR/21), Are there  any observations on that? Any objections? Adopted.
9C/DR/25, as amended in the debate, was adopted,  Then there is a esolution which is unnumbered, Any  observations? Any objections? Adopted.  Now we come to "Special Activities", under Mass  Communication,  Resolution 5, 41.  tions? Adopted.  Resolution 5. 42.  Adopted,  Resolution 5, 6 (3C/DR/20) needs no vote.
22 also needs no vote,  Resolution 5,51, on page 11 of the English text of  the report on Mass Communication, Any observa-  tions? Any objections? Adopted,  Resolution 5. 52, Any observations? Any objec-  tions? Adopted,  That finishes the chapter on Mass Communication,  Now we come to Exchange of Persons,  Resolution 6, 11 on page 1 of the English text of the  report on Exchange of Persons, Any observations?  Any objections? Adopted.  Resolution 6, 21, Any observations? Any objec-  tions? Adopted.  Resolution 6. 32.  tions? Adopted.  Resolution 6, 51,  tions? Adopted,  Resolution 6, 61.  tions? Adopted.  Any observations? Any objec-  Any comments? Any objections?
9C/DR/  Any observations? Any objec-  Any observations? Any objec-  Any observations? Any objec-  MEETINGS
260  That finishes the report on Exchange of Persons,  Now we come to the General Resolutions, The  firat is on page 2 of the English text on the General  Resolutions,  Resolution 7, 11. Any observations? Objections?  Adopted, .  Resolution 7,12. Any observations? Objections?  Adopted,  Resolution 7, 13, Any observations? Objections?  Adopted,  Resolution 7, 21, Any observations? Objections?  Adopted,  Resolution 7, 22, Any observations? Objections?  Adopted.  Resolution 7, 31, Any observations? Objections?  Adopted, No objections but one abstention, Resolu-  tion 7, 31: Haiti abstains,  There is an unnumbered resolution (document 9C/  DR/137) on page 4 of the English text on General  Resolutions, Any observations? Abstentions? United  States of America and Canada. Would those abstain-  ing kindly raise their haids? There were 12 absten-  tions on this resolution. Anyone against? The reso-  lution is adopted,  Then there is a resolution concerning a tribute to  Mahatma Gandhi; and here it was unanimouely agreed  that Profossor Carneiro of Brazil should express the  sentiments of the Programme Commission,
(49) Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Trans-  lation from the French): Mr, President, fellow  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, a session of Unesco's  General Conference held in India could not conclude  without a tribute of respect and esteem to the memory  of Mahatma Gandhi, the great spiritual leader of the  great Indian nation, one of the patriarchs of the  world's freedom, It is a high honour for this assem-  bly to hail that great upholder, not only of the inde-  pendence of his native land, but also of the dignity of  man and of all the physical and moral freédoms of all  the nations, We are all familiar with the stages  through which Gandhi passed, beginning as a young  man and continuing through nearly fifty years, from  struggle to struggle, fast to fast, prison to prison,  round table to round table, until the climax of his  career, We remember the glorioue South African  period, we recall his long pilgrimage through the. '  highways and byways of India, ‘during which he  gradually stirréd the mass of thé péople and drew  them into a campaign of recovery which was all the  more difficult to pursue, since it appealed not to  violence, but to love, Wa are familiar, from in-  numerable speeches which were a beacon to our  youth, with his outstanding value as a'philosopher;  our minds were reverently Hrked with the Mahatma's  each time he prayed for the salvation of his’ people -  without hatred for other peoples or for other men,  even if those peoples and those men were for the  time being the bitter enemies of his country,
1 will not retrace for you that mighty epic which  shed a lustre on our century - abased, alas, in many  respects, by so much conflict and destruction,  Gandhi, by himself alone, redeems all the Humilla-  tion and distress to which we, for two generations,  have been exposed as our destiny has followed its  course, A frail figure, a pilgrim ever on the road, a   PLENARY  twentleth- century St, Francis of Assisi, - a gentle,  plous being whose smile drew children to him and  whose irresistible energy the tyrants of his day could  not withstand, he ranks among the pioneers in that  work of international reconciliation which is now  Unesco's, His whole life was spent in teaching and  preaching, and he showed us that it is possible to  work miracles - for a miracle it was, to achieve  independence for his country in the circumstances  in which he did it - simply by appealing to men's  hearts and reason; and that the most violent passions  may be stilled by an appeal to justice or a gesture of  humility, He paved the way for this Organization,  whose purpose is to rid the earth of violence, and  which affirms that, since violence is horn in the  minds of men, it is in the minds of men that it must  be overcome, .  Some great lesson ia conveyed by every moment of  Gandhl's life; it wan perhaps in withdrawal and medi-  tation that his finest qualities were distilled, and at  each instant his public careér reflected some facet  of the power le drew from his inner life, The fore-  most of his great, universal teachings is, perhaps,  that everywhere, and to an ever-increasing extent,  politics must be subordinated to moral considera-  tions, That precept had never before been tested on  yuch a scale, He never devoted himself to an end  without taking the means into account and weighing,  with infinite sensitiveness, whether those means  were worthy of the end; This subordination of  politics to morality is the great precept which may  restore balance to the world of tomorrow, giving it  security without violence,  Furthermore, Gandhi showed us that a solitary  man, if he speaks with the voice of reason, if he  echoes the noblest human gentiments, may be a  power which is not merely national, but world wide;  a spiritual power, Standing thus alone, he was at one  time the equal, in his solitude, of some of those  great mediaeval pontiffs at whose palace doors kings,  forced to penance, would halt at their command, He  showed us that moral forces may unite, and that  Hindus and Moslems, Confucianists and Christians  can build up a great religious league, holding back  the forces of destruction and dissolution, His reli-  glous tolerance reflects the most characteristic of  India's own gifts to us throughout the centuries;  there are no hard-and-fast barriers, there'is no  rivalry among her gods, and her own faith never  comes into conflict with that of her neighbours, This  moral unity, this convergence of thé most diverse  forms of religious thought, were constantly advoca-  ted by Gandhi, from the opening of his political  career to the day of his death, Besides this, gentle-  men, he lived always for thé great masses of agri-  cultural and urban workers who, in all countries,  still stand on the fringe of a community which lives  on them but can hardly be said to live for them. He  became the self-sacrificing servant of the humblest,  the brother and the servant of the Untouchables, Did  he not tell us once that, were he to be born again,  he would wish to be born an Untouchable! This  brotherhood with the masses, this constant sharing  of their distresses and their needs, should surely  stimulate that international self-sacrifice by which  alone we can raise them with all possible speed to  the highest level, redeeming much social  MEETINGS
261  I-23  injustice by a gesture of generous fellowship,  All this Gandhi demonstrated throughout his life,  by example, exhortation and prayer, At the very  moment when India was triumphantly celebrating  her independence, he vanished from the scene; he,  the great architect of his nation, was not present at  the commemorative festivities! Resuming his pil-  grimage, he was travelling on distant roads,  preaching peace between Hindus and Moslems,  As fate would have it, death came to him in the  strangest and most incongruous form, It was’  necessary, perhaps, that his life should end in  martyrdom, An admirer once wrote to him that  everything in him was Christ-like, save that he  lacked the Cross, The cross came from the hand of  a fanatic, acting in madness, We all remember the  consternation into which the world was plunged, the  dark forebodings that made every heart shrink, when  the news became known. Gandhi belonged to the  spiritual kingdom of us all; we communicated in him,  with him; his death affected us like that of some  loved, familiar figure; but his'ashes, sprinkled over  the green grass of this city of New Delhi, scattered  to the four corners of the world by the winds that  blow across this great plain, spread like seed rich  with promise of future blossom, and wherever they  fell, a little of Gandhi's soul, of his heart, of his  nobility, took root arid are already bearing fruit,  The pilgrim still travels the earth; he is there,  close beside us; we listen to his living voice saying  "Ahimsa" and adjuring us to make our hearts worthy  of our task, so that we may unite all gods and all  men in a great communion of thought, respect and  fellowship,
(50) The PRESIDENT (Translation): We take it from  the applause that this resolution is approved by  acclamation,  The next resolution is on the contribution by Unesco  to the development of peaceful co-operation; you will  find it on page 5 of the English text on General Reso-  lutions.  I call upon the delegate of the Federal Republic of  Germany.
(51) Mr, von TRUTZSCHLER (Federal Republic of  Germany): Mr, President, in the Programme Com-  mission, the German delegation éxplainéd that, -in  our opinion, development of bilateral cultural rela-  tions should be a matter for Member States to decide,  as, in their decisions, they could take the conditions  of each special case into account, However, in the  discussion in the Programme Commission, the dele-  gation, which I think took an important part in the  final drafting of this text, stated that each Member  State would be completely free to judge whether,  when and under what conditions it would follow the  indications ¢ontained in paragraph (4) of the resolu-  tion, In accepting this interpretation, the German  delegation will abstain in the vote on this resolution,
(52) The PRESIDENT (Translation): Are there any  other observations on this resolution? If there are no  other observations, any objections? Any abstentions?  In that case, the resolution is carried, with 4  abstentions.  The next resolution is on Co-operation of Member
11-23  States and National Commissions in the execution of  the programme for 1957-1058, Any observations?  Any objections? Adopted,  The Expanded Programme of Technical Assistance.  The first resolution is after paragraph 6; it is un-  numbered; Are there any observations on this reso-  lution? Any objections?  I call upon the delegate of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics,
(63) Mr. TOROCHESHNIKOY (Union of Soviet  Soclalist Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr, President, féllow delegates, the Soviet delega-  tion, in the Programme Commission, voted for the  resolution on the Expanded Programme of Technical  Assistance, because we attach great importance to  this aspect of Unesco's work,” In that Commission,  several delegates spoke in favour of increasing the  supply of equipment to countries setting up educa-  tional and scientific centres in order to promote  their industrialization, They also advocated that  the so-called "special currencies" be used extensive-  ly for the purchase of such equipment, The Soviet  delegation regrets that these requests, which are  just ones, are not reflected in the Programme Com-  mission's report, The Soviet delegation considers  it right that Unesco should uge various currencies  for technical assistance, since this will make it  easier for the Organization to help countries in need  of equipment for the institutes they are establishing,  We consider it essential that the desire that various  currencies be used for technical assistance should  be duly mentioned in the records of the Conference.  I should like to add that, while voting for the resolu-  tion on technical assistance, the Soviet delegation  cannot approve technical assistance expenditure for  the benefit of the Kuomintang group (paragraphs 60  and 61 of document 9C/5), The Soviet delegation  requests that its statement on this subject be recorded  in the minutes, -
(654) The PRESIDENT (Translation): Thank you. The  observations will be noted. Are there any other ob-  servations? Any objections? Any abstentions? The  resolution is adopted,  Now that finishes the report on Technical  Assistance,  We have two annexes: Annex I and Annex II. The  Assistant Director-General will make a few observa-  tions on Annex I,
(55) Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  (Translation from the French): Mr. President, -  Annexes I and II contain two sets of regulations in  the form of recommendations - the first laying down  the international principles applicable to archaeolo-  gical excavations, and the second dealing with inter-  national competitions in Lee and town plan-  ning - which the Programme Commission recommends  the General Conference to adopt. These recommen-  dations i:ave been drawn up in accordance with the  prescribed procedure as adopted by the General Con-  ference; they have been considered, during this  session, by special working parties set up by the  Programme Commission; and they are now presented  to the plenary meeting for final approval  I should point out that this is the first time that    PLENARY MEETINGS  the General Conference has been required to adopt  such recommendations in accordance with the provi.  sions of its Constitution,  I think it would be best, Mr, President, if you  would call for a vote on the first recommendation  and then on the second,
(56) The PRESIDENT (Translation): Are there any  observations? Any.objections? Then we may take it  that Annex I is adopted,  Now Annex IL. Are there any observations? Any  objections? Annex II is also adopted,  Now the different Chapters have been approved  separately and the Report has been noted.  ADDRESS BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE
(57) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I very much  regret that I shall haye to leave now as I have some  other very urgent work, but I would like first to say  a few words to you, Friends, my first duty today  is to thank all delegations who have taken part in the  deliberations of this Conference for the warmth with  which they have spoken of India and her contribution  to Unesco's work, I have also been deeply touched  by their kind references to the Prime Minister and  myself, They have praised our efforts in organizing  the Conference, building this Hall and providing other  services, I can assure them that we have felt that  this is the least we could do, Though there are other  suitable halls in Delhi and elsewhere, we decided to  have a new Conference Hall when we invited Unesco,  Delhi has need for this additional accommodation  and I am glad that you have all liked the arrange-  ments, If there have been any shortcomings on our  part, I can assure you that they were not because of  lack of desire but on account of circumstances  beyond our control.  When we began the Conference on 5 November,  the atmosphere was one not of peace but of war,  Bombs were dropping and guns were booming when  we met, Even in the shadow of that tragedy, it was  our hope that the United Nations would be able to  bring the situation under control and restore normal  conditions at an early date, We are all aware of the  efforts the United Nations has made and is still  making to restore normal conditions, We are grate-  ful for what the United Nations has done, but there  are no signs that the clouds have been dispelled.  In fact, we are still living in the shadow of a danger  whose consequences no one can foresee,  These recent developments have made one thing  unmistakably clear, After the end of the world war,  we had hoped that the old world of colonialism and  exploitation was dead, We had hoped that there  would never be a repetition of the exploitation of  nation by nation, Recent events have proved that we  were unduly optimistic end the brave new world we  are longing for has not yet been born. If sucha  situation is possible in spite of the devastation of  two world wars and all the efforts of the League of  Nations ard the United Natione, one may well lose  hope in the future of hurianity. The question there-  fore arises: Should we la despondent because of  these tragic development2? My answer would be an  emphatic "No". The only vslid conclusion we can   PLENARY  draw is that the noble end we have in view demands  still greater efforts from us. If the goal is still far  away, we must not stop but must quicken our pace,  It there are difficulties and obstacles, we must make  greater efforts to overcome them, If we feel that  there is not sufficient response to our appeal, we  must make our appeal still more urgent, These diffi-  culties and obstacles must act as a fresh challenge  to our hope and faith, and we must go forward with  renewed determination and strength till we attain our  The only way in which we can succeed in our aim  is to create such a strong consciousness among the  peoples of the world that an aggressor would find not  à single sympathizer iri his act of aggression, If  world public opinion were roused to such a pitch that  all nations unitedly condemned violence and aggres-  sion, no nation would be able to indulge in such acts.  The United Nations is seeking to create the proper  climate of opinion in the world, but we cannot say  that it has yot succeeded in {ts efforts, We must  therefore continue our endeavours to strengthen the  world organization and build up a bulwark of opinion  which will make all aggressors hesitate,  One significant development in this Conference has  been the increase in Unesco's budget on the basis of  a joint resolution proposed by Brazil, France, Spain  and India, A million is not a great amount for  Unesco's work, but I have been pressing for such an  increase in Unesco's budget since 1951, when 1 had  the honour to address the Conference in Paris. I am  glad that delegates have now moved in this matter  and voted an expansion in Unesco's programme and  budget, I hope that the expansion, which has become  possible as a result of thie increase, will be continued  in future years,  I am happy to note that the programme for 1967-1968  has continued the move for greater concentration of  Unesco's efforts. An organization like Unesco can  be effective only by eliminating some of the less  Important items and paying greater attention to basic  issues. The acceptance of the three major projects  is calculated to help this end, and I am sure that the  execution of these programmes will give a new inten-  sity to Unesco's endeavours in many fields.  We are all aware that Unesco is not the proper  forum for discussing political issues, but at the  same time I have felt that, where the peace of the  world is at stake, Unesco must express the moral  reaction of the nations, Czechoslovakia and Bulgaria  proposed a resolution on Egypt, The majority of the  Conference decided that it should not be included in  the agenda, as it concerned a direct political issue  which was already under discussion in the United  Nations, The decision to exclude the item from the  agenda was, therefore, on purely technical grounds  and should not for a moment be regarded as any  judgement on the merits of the case. In fact, the  majority of those who voted against the inclusion of  the item have already expressed their stand unequi-  vocally in the United Nations. The fact that the Con-  ference has votéd a substantial amount for educational  relief to Egypt and Hungary is further evidence of  Unesco's concern and sympathy with the sufferings of  the people of these countries.  In my speech on 5 November, I had emphasized  that the solution of the ideological conflicts which
263  MEETINGS     I-23  today divide the world must be the special renponsibi-  lity of Unesco, I am glad that one of our major  projects is for a better mutual appreciation of the  cultures of the East and the West, Thik is an entirely  welcome development, [ am sure greater knowledge  between East and West will lead to the elimination  of many tensions that arise from ignorance and ’  distrust, I further hope that Unescd will not rest  here but will also take up the study of the new ideolo-  gical conflict that has developed as a result of the  clash between the rival outlooks of Communism and  Capitalisra. [ hope that the Director-General will be  able to present to the next session of the General  Conference a work plan directed to this end, so that  the peoples of the world may learn to tolerate  divergent points of view and to accept the principle  of peaceful coexistence,  Before I conclude, I would, on behalf of the people  and the Government of India, and on my own behalf,  once again like to thank the delegates for the friendly  spirit in which they have responded to our invitation,  We were happy to have them with us and I hope that  many of them will return again and again to this  ancient land, I can assure them that their visit has  evoked both friendship and interest for their countries  among our people, 1 would also like to assure the  Conference that India accepts without any mental  reservation the aims and ideals of Unesco and will  continue to serve these ends with zeal and faith,  (Mr. Kemenov (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  took the Chair. )
(58) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  Gentlemen, the plenary meeting continues, I call  upon the delegate of France, Mr, Laugier.
(59) Mr. LAUGIER (France) (Translation from the  French): Mr, President, I would like to speak on  what may be called a point of order - one of great  concern to my country and, I think, to everyone. We  have just adopted the resolutions in this bulky docu-  ment, and we have taken note of the report, That  means that we have not actually accepted the contents  of the report. There would probably have been many  reservations and criticisms of details in the presenta-  tion of the report, So I think that the various dele-  gations, once they have read the report properly -  which they have not had time to do - will make the  Rapporteur some friendly suggestions for amend-  ments which we feel are needed, ;  The particular point to which I would like to call  attention is this: one question which interested my  country tremendously was the problem of the intro-  duction of revolutionary bibliographical methods in  the organization of scientific information services.  This matter was the subject of a long, animated and  extremely interesting discussion in the Programme  Commission, I! do not, of course, intend to describe  that discussion in detail, but I would like to indicate  its conclusion, 1 will read it in English, with  apologies.for my accent: "The Chairman" (Mrs.  Myrdal) "said that as there was a general agreement  on the procedure to be followed, there would be no  need for the Commission to vote on the matter";  (that is perfectly clear) "a reference to the subject  would be included in the report’. But the report does
11-23  not make the slightest reference to this decision by  the Chair, which was perfectly appropriate and  perfectly in order, I would like it to be mentioned,  My country takes a great interest in the question of  the use of revolutionary bibliographical methods in  the organization of scientific information services,  and feels that Unesco should introduce vigorous, bold  and original measures for this purpose, which might  one day be taken up by the Department of Natural  Sciences as a small major project. I think this is a  matter of great importance, and that Unesco would  be doing direct and considerable service to the work-  ing community of scientists, if it could take effective  steps in this field,
(60) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  Gentlemen, it seems to me that Mr, Laugier's  proposal should be taken into account and mentioned  in the report. Are there any objections? I think we  may say that we are agreed, I propose to call now  upon the delegate of Denmark, Mr. Kjems, Rappor-  teur of the joint meeting of the Programme and  Administrative Commissions, who will introduce  document 9C/30,  REPORT ON THE JOINT MEETING OF THE PROGRAMME  AND ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSIONS
(61) Mr, KJEMS (Denmark) (Rapporteur of the Joint  Meeting of the Administrative and Programme Com-  missions): Mr. President, I have the honour to  introduce the Report of the Joint Meeting of the Pro-  gramme and Administrative Commissions, which  was held yesterday, 4 December. The Report was  prepared yesterday afternoon in order to be ready  for the meeting today; the document had to be sent  for translation and printing before some final correc-  tions could be made. Accordingly the text should be  amended in some of the paragraphs, and with your  permission, Mr, President, I will read the text and  indicate the amendments as they come.  "The Programme and Administrative Commissions  held a joint meeting on Tuesday, 4 December 1956,  at 10 a, m,  The Chairman of the Administrative Commission,  Mr. Gardner Davies (Australia) was elected Chair-  men,  The meeting considered documents 9C/22, 8C/23,
9C/26, sc/28, 9C/DR/138 and 9C/PRG/30.  I. 9C/2È - Report of Joint Working Party No. 2 of  the Programme and Administrative Commissions  Part I of the réport concerning.the financing of the  Unesco Coupon Schemes (paragraphs 1 through 8)  was introduced by the Assistant Director-General on  behalf of the Chairman of the Working Party, and it  was adopted by the meeting without comments,  Part II of the report concerning thé Unesco  Courier’ (paragraphs 9 through 19): the document  was introduced by the Assistant Director-General on  behalf of the Chairman of the Joint Working Party,  The Working Party had discussed the matter on the  basis of the decision of the Programme Commission  in favour of a progressive increase in the circulation  of the 'Courier’. As subscription ratés did not cover
264  PLENARY MELGTINGS  the actual expenses, this would mean a progressive  increase of the deficit or an increase of funds to  cover the deficit, The increased costs could be  covered either through an increase in the subscrip-  tion rates, through income from commercial advey-  tising, through supplementary appropriations in  Unesco's budget, or through use of the Publications  Fund, The Working Party had decided to recommend  that the costs should be met by supplementary appro-  priations,  The Joint Meeting first discussed whether the sub-  scription rates should be raised, and whether com-  mercial advertising should be allowed in the 'Courier!,  The representative of the Director-General inform:d  the meeting that the Director-General did not agree  with the recommendation of the Working Party, The  Director-General found that the price of the "Courier  should not be fixed by the General Conference and was  of the opinion that a moderate increase of subscription  rates would not cause any ill effecta on sales, It was  the intention of the Director-General not to raise sub-  scription rates by more than 25 per cent at the most,  During the discussion a number of delegates ex-  pressed themselves in favour of allowing some increase  of the subscription rates, while one delegation feared  that such an increase would damage the circulation of  the ‘Courier’ in schools and institutions, While the  majority were in favour of allowing some commercial  advertising in the 'Courier', it was underlined that  such advertising should be consonant with Unesco's  objectives,  Following the discussion, a vote was taken on a  proposal put forward by the Egyptian delegation, By
28 votes for, 10 against, and 8 abstentions, it was  agreed that the subscription rates of the 'Courier!  should not be fixed; and by 27 votes for, 7 against,  and 13 abstentions, it was agreed that the Director-  General should be authorized during the next two  years to introduce commercial advertising on an  experimental basis,  Following this decision, the Joint Mecting approved  unanimously the following resolutions concerning the  Publications Fund in document 8C/6 Corrigendum 1,  Part II, Chapter 8, paragraph 29: (a) add to the items  with which the Fund may be credited: 'Revenue de-  rived from advertisements in the Unegco "Courier",  and (b) add to the purposes for which the Director-  General is authorized to incur direct expenditure  from the Fund: 'To meet the necessary costs, inclu-  ding staff costs, of the distribution of additional  copies of the Unesco "Courier" to Sales Agente and  subscribers’.  Part III of document 9C/22 (New presentation of the  Budget Estimates of the Documents and Publications  Service) was adopted without comment."
(62) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  Are there any questions or comments on this part of  the report? No one wishes to speak? Then I shall  ask the Rapporteur to continue.
(63) Mr, KJEMS (Denmark) (Rapporteur of the Joint  Meeting of the Programme and Administrative Com-  missions): The second part of the Report concerns  docurhent 8C/23 - Report of Joint Working Party  No, À of the Programme and Administrative Commis-  sions. This document was introduced by the   PLENARY  Chairman of the Joint Working Party, Mr. J, S, Arthur  of the United Kingdom,  The Chairman of the Programme Commission,  Mrs, Myrdal (Sweden), welcomed the proposals  since they would make the work of the Programme  Commission much more efficient, There is a small  amendment here, in the last line but one on page 2,  Rule 12 should read Rule 10A, so the proposal is  actually thé proposed amendments to Rules 10A and
78 of the Rules of Procedure,  The report was discussed on the basis of the sum-  mary included in the Report of the Working Party  {paragraph 21). The first three sub-paragraphe (a),  {b) and (c) were approved without comment, Sub-  paragraph (d), which concerns an amendment to  Rule 10A. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, where the  time-limit should be altered from two months to  three months, gave rise to some discussion, It was  pointed out that the proposed text was not in accord-  ance with the Constitution, as amended at the last  session of the General Conference, as the programme  and budget estimates are proposed by the Director-  General and not by the Executive Board, The amend-  ment was, however, approved in principle and the  Joint Meeting took note of a statement in which the  Director-General declared that he would observe  the time-limit of three months proposed by the  Working Party, even if the amendment was not  adopted formally,  Furthermore, the meeting was of the opinion that  the amendment, and any others which might prove  desirable, ought to he studied by the Executive Board  during the coming two-year period,  The following four sub-paragraphs, (e), (f), (g)  and (h), were adopted without comment from the  Joint Meeting. The riext sub-paragraph (1), concern-  ing the time-table that the Director-General had pro-  posed in document 9C/20 was also approvad, but, on  the proposal of the delegate of Ecuador, it was agreed  to add in this sub-paragraph the words: "as far as  the despatch of documents is concerned",  The final sub-paragraph (j) reads: "The Executive  Board should undertake a further longer-term study  of the factors {involved in the preparation and consi-  deratinn of the draft programme and budget"; in this  sub-paragraph it was agreed, on the proposal of the  Japanese delegation, that the words "longer-term"  should be deleted, So that paragraph reads: "The  Executive Board should undertake a further study of  the factors involved in the preparation and considera-  tion of the draft programme and budgot',  The Joint Meeting received from the Legal Com-  mittee a proposal which covers the two amendments  to Rule 78(2) of the Rules of Procedure, which amend-  ments were contained in sub-paragraphs (c) and (f)  of document 9C/23, When these two amendments had  been adopted by the Meeting, it adopted unanimously  the following text which had been propoaed by the  Legal Committee: "Proposals containing new pro-  gramme resolutions or amendments to the draft pro-  gramme {nvolving new activities or increasing sub-  stantially the budget estimatés and proposals for  increases or decreases in the total budget ceiling  proposed by the Director-General shall be submitted  in writing and shall reach the Director-General at  least six weeks before the opening of the session;  the Director-General shall communicate  MEETINGS
11-23  them as soon as possible to Member States",  Following the discussion of document 9C/23, the  Japanese delegate introduced the draft resolution
8C/DR/138 concerning the organization of the tenth  session of the General Conference, But as this reso-  lution was presented only in English and had not been  discussed in the General Committee, it was found  that the Meeting was not able to discuss it, The Meet-  ing decided, however, to recommend that this reso-  lution slsould be taken up for discussion in the plenary  session in connexion with the discussion of the present  report,  That finishes Part IL of the Report,
(64) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian}:  Are there any questions or remarks on this part of  the report? No one wishes to speak? Then let us  pass on to the next and last part of the report.
(65) Mr, KJEMS (Denmark) (Rapporteur of the Joint  Meeting of the Programme and Administrative Com-  missions): Part III, document 9C/PRG/30 - Reports  of Working Party No. 6 on the General Resolutions.  ‘The representative of the Director-General stated  at the Meeting that, consequential upon the decision  of the Programme Commission to reinstete the  Bureau in Havana, it was necessary to make certain  amendments in document 9C/5, Corrigendum 1, and  Part IH, General Adininistration, Chapter 5: Bureau  of Relations with Member States, paragraph 92.  Here again there {s a small amendment in the last  line of this paragraph: the words “Latin America"  should be deleted, and after the word "P, 2" should  be inserted, Pend one secretary, D, in the Latin  American Unit", So this part of the paragraph  reads: "one post of General Liaison Assistant (P, 2)  and one secretary, D, in the Latin American Unit  should be deleted",  Furthermore, the Programme Commission had  decided to establish an Arabic Unit, and, as a result  of this decision, provision should be made for two  P, 4 posts and two secretarial posts at Grade D, as  well as the relevant staff and printing costs, The  expense would be $30,612 in 1857 and $31,415 in
1958. The estimates in paragraph 86 in the same  chapter should accordingly be amended to $667,105  in 1957 and $684,874 in 1958, These proposals were  adopted unanimously, and this ends Part II,
(66) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  Are there any questions or comments on Part ITI of  the report? No comments? Then let us pass on to  Part IV,
(67) Mr. KJEMS (Denmark) (Rapporteur of the Joint  Meeting of the Programme and Administrative Com-  missions): Part IV concerns document 8C/26 -  resolution adopted by the ad hoc Committee for  Budget Adjustments on balancing the budget for
1957-1858.  The document was introduced by the Chairman of  the ad ho¢ Committee, and the Chairman of the Pro-  gramme Commission, Mrs. Myrdal, who had  followed the deliberations of this Committee, stated  that she was convinced that the proposal made by the  Committee was th2 best possible solution: The Italian  delegation suggested the deletion from paragraph 3(a)
11-23 PLENARY  of the resolution of the words: ''in consultation with  the Executive Board", and this was adopted. It was  noted that paragraph 4 gave the necessary authoriza-  tion to the Executive Board,  I think I should read the resolution as it was  approved in amended form by the Joint Meeting. It is  document 8C/26 and it reads:
(1) .Considering that the budgétary effect of the  recommendations voted by the Programme and Ad-  ministrative Commissions of the General Conference  amounts to $664,832 in excess of the provisioral  spending level adopted by the General Conference;
(2) Decides that the budget be balanced by a uni-  form percentage reduction applied to each appropria-  tion line of Part II - Programme Operations and  Services - of the Appropriation Table for 1957-1958;  {3) Requests the Director-General:  ta) - and here comes the amendment - to study the  possibility of making reductions in Parts I, III and  IV of the Appropriation Table Zor 1857-1958, with a  view to reducing the impact of the reductions on the  programme;  (b) to present to the Executive Board, after taking  into consideration any reductions that he can make  under (a) above, a plan for the application to the  various projects of the progremme (Part II of the  budget), of the percentage reductions referred to in  paragraph 2 above;
(4) Authorizes the Executive Board to approve such  a plan with or without amendments."
(68) The PRESIDENT {Translation from the Russian):  Are there any questions or comments on Part IV of  ihe Report? None? Then let us pass on to Part V.
(69) Mr. KJEMS (Denmark) (Rapporteur of the Joint  Meeting of the Programme and Administrative Com-  missions): The fifth section concerns document
9C/20, Appropriation Resolutions for 1957-1958,  The Director-General informed the Meeting that  the Appropriation Table was drawn up in accordance  with the methods used in previous years, except for  one minor change in Part V, the title of which was  altered from "Reserve" to "Undistributéd Appropria-  tion", The appropriations suggested for each pro-  gramme chapter had been adjusted in accordance  with the suggestions made in document 8C/26, which  had just been adopted, The Annex on page 4 of the  document wag for information. The Meeting was  called upon to adopt the resolutions on pages 2, 3 and
5, paragraph 1 through 10, “There was a mistake in  the English text which has been corrected. .  The delegate of the United States of America noted  with regret, in the discussion, that, while the original  Proposed Programme and Budget put forward by the  Director-General followed the directives approved by  previous conferences concerning concentration of the  programme, this was not the case with many of the  new proposals which had been adopted during the work  of the Programme Commission, frequently after in-  sufficient discussion, This was not in accordance  with sound budgeting, and he regretted that, for  these reasons, the United States delegation found  itself unable to vote for the Appropriation Resolution.  On the other hand, the delegation was hopeful that -  the re-examination by the Director-General and the  Executive Board of the Budgst, in accordance with
266  MEETINGS  the resclution in document 8C/26 would give good  results, and in consequence the delegation would not  vote against the Appropriation Resolution, but abstain,  The delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics supported this statement, He found it was  bad procedure to present a document as important as  this before the Conference at such short notice, which  did not give the delegates sufficient ime for studying  the document, For these reasons, ths Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics would aleo abstain from voting.  The Appropriation Resolution for 1957-1958 was  adopted by the Joint Meeting, by 25 votes, 0 against  and 21 abstentions,
(70) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian}:  Are there any questions or remarks on this section of  the report? None? I should like to ask the Rapporteur  - to make a correction in the last part of his report  with regard to the position taken up by the Soviet  delegate, since the latter supported the delegate of  the United States of America, but stated that he would  abstain from voting because the document was,  wrongly, called a document of the Ad Hoc Committee,  although that Committee was not acquainted with it,  This mistake was subsequently corrected, and a  Corrigendum issued by the Secretariat has cleared  up the misunderstanding, I think, therefore, that  the relevant part of the repoit should be amended to  correspond to what actually happened at the joint  meeting of the Commissions, Agreed? Thank you,  gentlemen, Before proceeding to the vote, I shall  now call upon the Director-General for his views.
(71) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: Mr, President,  I think that you and all the delegates realize that the  Rapporteur and the Secretariat worked under very  great pressure to have this document ready, and it  is quite clear that some of the points in the Report,  if you adopt it, should be drawn up in the form of  resolutions, I think you could trust the Secretariat  and the Rapporteur to complete this work after you  have finished your work. If you adopt the Report, we  will put the resolutions in the proper form.
(72) The PRESIDENT (Translation from thé Russian):  You have heard the Director-General'n proposal;  are there any questions or comments on it? I call  upon the delegate of the United States of America.
(73) Mr, SPILHAUS (United States of America):  Mr, President, I am sorry to have to walk this far  to ask simple questions, but I did not understand the  procedure, Is it that, in adopting the Report, we are  signifying our approval of the resolutions at the same  time, or are we going to vote on the resolutions  separately. I suggest that the latter course wovid  be the clearer one.
(74) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr, Spilhaus. Our method of procedure  has so far been as follows: we have confirmed,  approved or taken note of a report as a whole. Then  we have taken each part of the report containing  resolution weparately, and we have either voted  on it, or else asked whether there are any objections  to it, As I understand him, the representative of the  United States of America proposes that we should   PLENARY  continue on these lines, In other words, we can.  elther approve or reject the report as a whole; but  after that we shall take each part of the report which  contains a resolution, and vote on it separately, Is  ny interpretation of the United States delegate's  question correct? Are we agreed on this procedure,  which we have used already today, and which the  United States representative proposes we continue to  use? If there are any other suggestions, kindly put  them forward; if not, then we shall proceed in this  way, Are there no other suggestions? Then we shall  continue with the same procedure, in line with the  proposal of the United States representative. I submit  for your approval the report as a whole; after which  we shall be able to pass on to vote separately on each  part of the report containing a resolution. Those in  favour of adopting the report submitted by Mr. Kjems  kindly raise your hands, Thank you, Those against?  None, Abstentions? None. The report as a whole
1s adopted,  We shall now take the report part by part, voting  only on those parts which contain resolutions, We  shall vote first on paragraph 8 in document 9C/30.  There has been an amendment to this paragraph,  which now reads: "It was agreed that the sale price  of the 'Courier' should not be fixed at the present  level but allowed to increase’, A vote is being taken  on this part of paragraph 8, since it is important,  Will those in favour of this paragraph please raise  their hands? Those against? None, Abstentions?  One abstention, Paragraph 8 is therefore approved.  We shall now proceed to vote on paragraph 8, We  shall vote on it in two parts, (a) and (b). The vote is  Ing taken on paragraph 9 (a) which reads as follows:  "Add to the items with which the Fund may be credited:  ‘Revenue derived from advertisements in the Unesco  "Courier, Will those in favour kindly raise their  hands? Those against? None. Abstentions? 26 in  favour, none against, 4 abstentions, Paragraph 9 (a)  is therefore adopted, :  We are now voting on paragraph 9 (b): ,.. "the  Director-General is authorized to incur direct  expenditure from the Fund to meet the necessary  costs, including staff costs, of the distribution of  additional copies of the Unesco 'Courier' to Sales  Agents and Subscribers’, Those in favour of this  paragraph kindly raise your hands, Those against?  Two. Abstentions? None. 44 in favour, 2 against,  no abgtentions, This paragraph is therefore adopted,  We shall now vote on the recommendations of Joint  Working Party No. 1 of the Programme and Adminie-  trative Commissions, paragraphs 13 to 17. Will you  please look at the document, paragraphs 13, 14, 15,
16 and 17, Is there any objection to the adoption of  these paragraphs, Anyone against? None, Absten-  tions? None. We may therefore consider that you  have adopted paragraphs 13 to 17.  We shall now proceed to take a vote on paragraph
18, dealing with the Rules of Procedure, and con-  taining the final text of Rule 78 (2) proposed by the  Legal Committee, as follows: "Proposals containing  new programme resolutions or amendments to the  draft programme involving new activities or increas-  ing substantially the budget estimates and proposals  for increases or decreases in the total budget ceiling  proposed by the Director-General shall be submitted  fn writing and shall reach the Director-General at
11-23  least six weeks before the opening of the session;  the Director-General shall communicate them as  soon as possible to Member States", Will those in  favour of this paragraph please raise their hands?  Those against? None against, Abstentions? One.  This section is adopted unanimously, with one  abstention,  We have next to discuss and approve document
9C/DR/138, 1 call upon the Chairman of the Legal  Committee, Mr. Matsui, the delegate of Japan, to  present thia document,
(76) Mr. MATSUI (Japan) (Translation from the  French): Mr, President, fellow delegatus, on 28  November Japan submitted à draft resolution, 9C/DR/
130, the purpose of which was to revive resolution
1. 2, 2, adopted by the General Conference at its eighth  session, That resolution called upon the Executive  Board and the Director-General to draw up proposals  for improving the organization and methods of work  of the General Conference and of its commissions and  committees, We note with satisfaction that, during  the present session, amendments have been made to  the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference,  We consider, however, that this study is incomplete,  and that, in the light of experience acquired during  this New Delhi session, it is desirable and indeed  essential for a further study to be made, This is a  difficult, exacting and lengthy task, added to those  already confronting the Dicector-General and the  Executive Board, -  You have just heard the report of Joint Working  Perty No, 1 of the Programme and Administrative  Commissions, The report you have just adopted re-  commends two amendments to the Rules of Procedure  of the General Conference, but notes, at the same  time the necessity of considering the whole question  of any additional amendments to those Rules of Pro-  cedure which may be required. It was in the light of  the findings of Joint Working Party No, 1 that the  Japanese draft resolution was amended, and it is on  behalf of the Jelegationa of Japan and the United King-  dom, acting in conjunction, that I now submit draft  resolution 9C/DR/138 for consideration by the General  Conference. There is no need, I think, to read this  resolution to you; you have it before you, and its  essential points have been mentioned in the brief  statement 1 have just made, I should like to say that  we are most anxious to have this draft resolution  approved by the General Conference.
(76) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr, Matsui, Are there no comments?  I call upon the delegate of Sweden, Mra, Myrdal,
(77) Mrs, MYRDAL (Sweden): Mr, President and  fellow delegates, the delegation of Sweden has had  the honour, during the present session of the General  Conference, to provide the services of the Chairman  of the Programme Commission, It is on the basis of  the experience gained in carrying out these functions  that I want to support most strongly the draft reso-  lution 9C/DR/138 which is before us. We certainly  know that it is necessi.ry to sort out the best methods  of work for the various Conference organs and most  certainly to make the task of the Programme Com-  mission less burdensome and more meaningful.   I-23 PLENARY  Already, with the decisions we have taken on the  Report from thé Joint Meeting of the Administrative  and Progranmime Commissions, document 9C/30, and  particularly the summary of recommendations from  document 9C/23, we have the prospect of the Pro-  gramme Commissions in future sessions being able  to perform one of their tasks - hitherto considered to  be the primordial ta task of the Programme Commission  more diligently, and - I do not say more responsibly -  but with greater certainty as to its responsibility,  I refer to the task of preparing the General Confer-  ence's "legislation", as to the approval of the pro-  gramme and budget, for the period immediately  following the session of the General Conference, that  is, a few weeks from the end of the Conference ses-  sion itself,  As the future Programme Commissions will have  before them not only the thoroughly prepared  proposals of the Director-General and comments  from the Executive Board, but also draft resolutions  from Member States which have been sent in by their  governments at home, the situation will be much more  straightforward, No great surprises will be sprung  upon the Commission; and therefore we hope that  the session can be taken more quickly and without so  much d'scussion, -  Thus, the situation, the task of the Programme  Commission would become less burdensome, but can  it also be made more meaningful? Yes, I think that  the Programme Commission has been conceived as  having functions above those of merely processing a  series of proposals whose fate is practically deter-  mined in advance, If this were the only task, then it  would not be sufficiéntly warranted to bring here  prominent specialists among the delegations - and  we have had some very prominent persons indeed,
1 can understand that it must have been frustrating  for them to participate in the work of the Programme  Commission and have only’ to speak on draft reso-  lutions and amendments and to look out for the five-  minute rule, nd 86 on, But I ‘must assure them  that it is equally, if not more, frustrating for a  Chairman not to be able to give them the leeway for  a real welcoming of new ideas, of constructive  proposals, of an enlightening exchange of views, or  the creative process of group thinking, which could  start when really knowledgeable people are assembled  together, :  Now, suth à pôssibility has béen offered for the  future Programme Commissions; and in particular,  may I say, by adopting this recommendation in para-  graph (e) in the! Summary of Recommendations which  we have just had béfôre us: that draft resolutions  which fail to meet the time= limit should bé taken into  account in the drafting of the programme of the sub-  sequent two-year périod; Then, if the draft resolu-  tions come in after the deadline, they will be and  remain the object’ of disctission for a future pro- -  gramme, and thus’ the Programme Commission should  becomé more an organ for real programming, for  giving a guiding light, for stimulation, and for solving  some of the problems of the new programme before  the Director-General and the Executive Board start  to plan, Thus the influence, and interest, of Member  States in the General Conference will become greater,  There is also the possibility, of course, of breaking  up the Programme Commission into specialized sub-  MEETINGS
268  commissions which could deal both with similar  changes in the programme and budget for the first  period of the General Conference and also with long-  term changes in the programme; that is, the Pro-  gramme Commission could focus its attention much  more than hitherto on programme policy, Many  practical rearrangements in the work of the Confer-  ence ought to be considered by the Executive Board  and the Director-General, Then I think that the  General Conference could with confidence look  forward to a more profitable next session, making  each organ of the Conference serve our common alm  with a maximum of usefulness,  I submit these remarks in all humility, together  with my delegation's support for the resolution  before us, because I am deeply convinced that dele-  gates have come here with much more to give to  Unesco than they have been able to give, on account  of the traditional layout of our work,
(78) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  I would like to thank Mrs. Myrdal for her most  valuable and interesting comments. Has anyone else  any remarks to make about document 9C/DR/138?  No, Allow me then to put this document to the vote,  Those in favour, please raise your hands. Those  against? Abstentions? The resolution is adopted  unanimously,  Let us now vote on document 9C/26, a resolution  adopted by the Ad Hoc Committee for Budget Adjust-  ments. I call upon the delegate of Poland, the  Chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee, to present this  document,
(79) Mr, ZULAWSKI (Poland) (Chairman and  Rapporteur of the Ad Hoc Committee for Budget  Adjustments) (Translation from the French): Mr,  President, the Ad Hoc Committee for Budget Adjust-  ments for the purpose of balancing the budget for
1957-1958 has prepared the following draft resolution:  "The General Conference”  Considering that the budgetary effect of the recoin-  mendations voted by the Programme and Adininistra-  tive Commissions of the General Conference amounts  to $664,832 in eicess of the Provisional Spending  Level adopted by the General Conference,  Decides that the budget be balanced by a uniform  percentage reduntion applied to each appropriation  line of Part II - Programme Operations and Services -  of the Appropriation Table for 1957-1958;  Requests the Director-General:  (a) To study, in consultation with the Executive  Board, the possibility of making reductions in Parts I,  HI and IV of the Appropriation Table for 1957-1958,  with a view to reducing the impact of the reductions  on the programme; :  (b) To present to the Executive Board, after taking  into consideration any reductions that he can make  under (a) above, a plan for the application to the  various projects of the programme (Part II of the  Budget) of the percentage reductions referred to in  paragraph 2 above;  Authorizes the Executive Board to approve such à  plan with or without amendments,"  You also have before you the document drawn up by  the Director-General, which expresses in figures the  implications of the resolutions adopted by the Joint   PLENAVY  Meeting of the Programme and Administrative Com-  missions.
(80) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you. We will now take a vote on document
9C/26. There is an amendment to paragraph 3 (a):  after the word "study", delete the words "in consul-  tation with the Executive Board", Paragraph 3 (a)  will thus read as follows: "to study the possibility of  making reductions in Parts I, III and IV" and so on,  Those in favour of adopting this resolution, please  ralse your hands, Those against? None. Absten-  tions? None. The resolution is adopted unanimously.  We shall now take a vote on paragraphs 20 and 21  of document 9C/30,  Paragraph 20 of document 9C/30 deals with the  appropriation for the Havana Office. One post is  abolished, Paragraph 20 of document AC/30. Are  there any objections to adopting paragraph 20? None.  Any abstentions? Nonz., We may then assume that  paragraph 20 is approved unanimously,  Paragraph 1 relates to the establishment of an  Arabic translation unit and the provision of the neces-  sary posts. Any objections to paragraph 217 None.  Any abstentions? None. We may therefore assume  that paragraph 21 is approved,  We shall now take Section V of document 8C/30,  which refers to documents 9C/29 and 9C/29 Adden-  dum and Corrigendum. We have here the calculations  for the percentage reductions mentioned just now by  the delegate of Poland,
1 call upon the delegate of the United States of  America,  DISCUSSION AND ADOPTION OF THE DRAFT  APPROPRIATION RESOLUTION
(81) Mr, SPILHAUS (United States of America):  Mr, President, fellow delegates, the delegation of  the United States of America believes that this Con-  ference has taken much constructive action, and we  shall do all that we can during the next two years to  advance and improve the programme that the Confer-  enca has just approved, ‘  It is therefore with much regret that I find it  necessary to come here and say that we will abstain  when a vote is taken upon the whole Appropriation  Resolution, Our reasons for abatalning were fully  explained yesterday in the Programme Commission  and I shall not repeat thém hére, But, in summary,  we have been willing to approve justifiable and care-  fully planned expansion, along the lines approved two  years ago at the Montevideo Conference, We still  cannot, however, endorse sudden and unplanned  expansion without opportunity for adequate consulta-  tion, We consider that some Increases in the pro-  gramme before us have been made in such a way as  to dilute it, to diffuse, and to render less sharp the  primary objectives of Unesco, ‘and to vitiate sound  principles of programme planning.  I would draw your attention, Mr, President, to the  vote which took place in the Programme Commission,  There was no question that this vote was unanimous  because there were 25 for, zero against and 21  abstentions, Nevertheless, a unanimous vote with
21 abstentions makes one pause, when it relates to  MEETINGS
11-23  such an important thing as the overall appropriation,  I do not quite know what an abstention ie, but the  abstention that I wish to register means, at least,  that it is an attitude of reservation - an attitude of  reservation which we must maintain in the light of  these sudden, unplanned developments,
(82) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Does anyone else wish to speak on this  subject? 1 call on the delegate of the Soviet Union.
(83) Mr, TOROCHESHNIKOV (Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr, President, delegates, I would like to ask a  question about the connexion between the resolution  on which we are now being asked to vote and the one  we have just adopted unanimously, Document 8C/26,  which has just been unanimously approved by the  General Conference, explains how the budget is to be  balanced by savings in Parts I, III and IV of the  Appropriation Table, and by the Director-General's  presenting to the Executive Board a plan for applying  the percentage reductions mentioned in paragraph 2  of document 9C/26, Paragraph 4 of document 9C/26  specifically authorizes the Executive Board to approve  this plan with or without amendments, On the other  hand, the resolution on which we are now asked to  vote preems to put forward a considered plan for  balancing the budget. Does this mean that by adopting  the resolution contained in document 9C/29 we are  cancelling the instruction to the Director-General and  the Executive Board set forth in the other resolution  which has just been adopted unanimously? Or is there  some other connexion between these two documents  which escapes me? 1 should be grateful for clarifica-  tion of this point.
(84) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  I call upon the Director-General,
(85) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: Mr, President, it  is the intention that, after the Appropriation Resolu-  tion is voted, the Board shall, with the help of the  Director-General, make the necessary adjustments  inside the different programme appropriation lines  in order to cut thé programme down to the amount of  money that is voted, So that the passing of this reso-  lution is in no way contradictory to the resolution  which has just been voted. There are other reasons  why you must vote an Appropriation Resolution, It  contains various authorizäfions and limitations in the  points 1 to 10 in the footnotes, which otherwise would  not exist, For instance, the pôwer to make transfers  between appropriation lines {s stated in one of those  footnotes. The ceiling oh personnel is stated in one  of those footnotes, and unless you pass that footnote,  there will be no ceiling on personnel, The ceiling on  personnel is something to which I believe the Chilean  delegation attaches considerable importance.  With that explanation, 1 am sure that the delegate  fully appreciates the situation.
(86) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Does anyone else wish to speak on this  question? If no one wishes to speak, then we can  perhaps, in the light of the Director-General's expla-  nation, put the question to the vote, The Director-
11-23 PLENARY  General, if I understood him aright, said that the  next task of the Executive Board, in consultation  with the Director-General, will be to make the neces-  sary adjustments inside the different programme  appropriation lines and to do so in such a way, as  the Ad Hoe Committee stipulated, as to uphold the  decisions of the Gèneral Conference regarding the  programme, to guarantee that they are put into  effect, and to ensure that any reductions in individual  sections of the programme do not prevent the imple-  mentation of that section of the programme, This  was the general feeling of the Ad Hoc Committee;  and it is obvious thai, after the document now before  us has been approved, the Director-General and the  Executive Board will still have a lot of work to do.  They will have to consider these general estimates  in relation to each appropriation line and decide how  the new, reduced funds are to be allocated within  each appropriation )ine, In so doing, the reduction  must be spread out more or less proportionately but  care must also be taken to safeguard the different  items of the work programme. As I understood the  Director-General, therefore, this is the first part  of the work he has been commissicned to do, which  is subsequently to be submitted to the Executive  Board for detailed examination and confirmation. Ie  that the position, Mr. Director-General?
(87) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL.: I think that is  right, Mr, President,
(68) The’ PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  If there are no more questions I shall take a vote on  this document, Will those in favour of adopting  document 9C/29 Addendum and Corrigendum, please  raise their hands? Those against? None. Absten-  tions? Will those wishing to abstain please raise  their hands once again? Thank you, Thus we have
12 abstentions, none against and all the rest {n favour,  In that case, I shall have to ask those in favour of  the resolution to raise their hands once again, as  there are a large number of abstentions. Those in  favour please raise their hands. The regolution is  adspted by 33 votes in favour, none against, with
12 abstentions, We have therefore adopted the report  as a whole and confirmed, one by one, all the sections  of the draft resolutions.  We have now come to the end of the draft resolu-  tions dealing with the programme and budget and with  all the other items of the work of this General Con-  ference. I now call upon the delegate of Iran, Mr.  Hekmat, who wishes to make some remarks in  connexion with the closing of the Conference,  Hekmat,  Mr.  CLOSING SPEECHES
(89) Mr, HEKMAT (Iran): Mr. President, my dear  colleagues, the ninth session of the General Confer-  ence of Unesco is now coming to an end, Our  colleagues and friends who are gathered here from  long distances abroad are returning to their home  countries, their hearts charged with the emotion of  gratitude towards the great people of India. At the  beginning of this Conference 1 expressed the appre-  ciation and gratitude of the Iranian delegation to the  MEETINGS
270  Government of India for their warm welcome and  generous hos:iitality. This is not the first time that  we Iranians have witnessed the liberality of our  friendly and nejghbouring country, The history of  Iran and India is full of such examples, For many  centuries the people and the Government of India have  received their neighbours with their inherant genero-  sity and Oriental free-handedness, Learned men of  letters and culture have found this country a haven of  rest. Now once again the heads of the Government  and the great people of India, and the press of India  also, have well demonstrated their old tradition  towards Unesco delegationa, The unparalleled atten-  tion they havé given this Conference and the delegates  of over 70 nations is dve to the fact that the eminent  leaders and statesmen ‘of this great country are  themaelves patrons gnd sincere propagators of  Unesco's objectives, We have once again been eye-  witnesses of the glory of the old as well as of the  modern development of New India, In fact, the mag-  nificence of old India is represented in the "gigantic  monuments of Old Delhi, and the symmetry and  harmony of the new development are symbolized in  the beauty and grace of New Delhi, We will never  forget the most eloquent and impressive statements  of Mr, Nehru, the noble and distinguished Prime  Minister of India, as also the extremely valuable  speeches of Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, our honourable  President of this Conference,  I need to mention the Executive Board of Unesco,  which is indeed a trustful and confident representative  of the Conference in these general meetings, and the  skilful adviser at our present session. To éxpress  our gratitude to Dr, Evans, the Director-General of  Unesco, and his distinguished collaborators is my  sweet duty, In this Conference, they have well dis-  played their practical ability and have provided all  the facilities which, from the technical point of view,  were essential for the suécezs of this Conference,  Here I should remark upon the success attained by -  him in acquiring new credits and congratulate him in  this connexion. The General Conference not only  sanctioned the budget as proposed by the Director-  General on an even higher basis than in the past, but  also laid at his disposal an additional $1, 000, 000  which he was not so insistent to receivé. Now that  the Conference has adopted the programme and budget,  we sincerely hope that the Executive Board and the  Director-General will, firstly, take extreme care in  ite application, and, secondly, will draft out the next  programme on the basis of the Organization's real  needs and possibilities, taking into consideration the  points suggested at this Conference,  The pleasure and the gratification felt by us on the  successful termination of the Conference will be |  tempered by regret and sorrow at the thought of  separation from so many dear friend§ and acquain-  tances. One can rightly say that everything good in  this world comes naturally to an end and the parts of  the body are doomed to disperse, but memories  always remain safe, This is expressed. in the views  of Sadi, the greatNranian poet, who says: in Arabic)  the menibers of a friend's circle part for a particular  destination while we and our thoughts are left in one  place alone. r Zu¢ vonsolation, however, is that,  at the tenth session of the General Conference, the  meeting of our friends and colleagues and the pleasure   PLENARY  of consultation and conversation with them will be  made possible soon,  Mr. President, our Conference began its first few  days in great anxiety, confusion and apprehension at  the disturbing condition of the world, but now that our  Conference is ending, fortunately signs of better and  ameliorated conditions are revealed in the inter-  national situation, We trust that, through the effect-  ive and quick measures adopted by the United Nations  on tho one side, and the spread of culture and know-  ledge for the benefit of mankind through the aims of  Unesco, on the other, the world will enter into the  path of courageous and juat co-operation. Thus the  nations of the world will enjoy the blessings of peace  and, instead of some big nations being hostile in  attitude against some other nations, they will extend  the hand of aid and assistance towards them. I con-  clude in the hope that all my friends and colleagues  will have full and complete success in the service of  humanity.
(90) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr, Hekmat. I call upon the delegate of  Belgium, Mr, Kuypers,
(81) Mr, KUYPERS (Belgium) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the  French-speaking delegates have given me the honour  of saying a few words to you on their behalf as the  ninth session of the Conference is about to close,  As we have frequently been reminded, Unesco is  ten years old; but it is a child with all eternity  before it; its mighty task is only just beginning. The  dark clouds which overhung the earliest days of this  ninth session of the Conference have gradually lifted;
50 let us be or remain optimistic,” But, above all,  let us realize our great good fortune tn’ meeting in  this great country, India, which is both s0 ancient  and so young, The traditional India, with its asce-  ticiam and its colour, has offered us a choice addi-  tional item of quite extraordinary interest - the  celebration of the 2, 500th anniversary of the birthof  the Buldha, The new India is becoming aware of  itself and is setting to work with fervour; one of the  imumerable symbols of this attitude is this magnifi-  cent conference hall, with the neighbouring rooms in  which we have worked, It may be sald, too, that this  sun-drenched India ever reflects the sunshine it  receives, though with one brief eclipse, We shall  soon by returning to the North, to our fogs, our cold,  our snow, with our hearts and eyes still dazzled by  the sun of India, by the perpetually blue sky and, I  may add, by the smile which lights up the black, the  jet-black eyes of the Indians,  We pay a wholè-hearted tribute of gratitude to the  Government, to the venerable President, to thé dis-  tinguished Prime Minister, and to the Minister of  Education, who has torn bimselt from his absorbing  duties - he is, it seema, responsible for 40,000,000  school-age children - and come here on several  occasions to preside over our work, We shall remem-  ber with deep emotion certain receptions, in parti-  cular that at the Red Fort, the delightful garlands of  flowers, and above all, the sympathetic attitude of  thé population of this great capital city, All the kind-  ness, the consideration, the friendliness shown to us  by the Indian delegation and by the Indian people in  an  MEETINGS
11-23  general will, 1 can agsure you, remain for ever  imprinted in our hearts, We shall soon be leaving  India, the richer for a wonderful huinan experience,  Mr. President, I should like to include in this  tribute our hard-working Vice-Presidents, our  Rapporteurs and the Chairmen of our Commissions  and Committees, The masculine word "Chairman"  is used for men and women allke, but fails, in my  opinion, to express the full extent of our admiration  for the lady who took the Chair in the Programme ’  Commission,  As we are in a democratic country, you will allow  me, I hope Mr, President, to extend this gratitude  not only to the heads but to the entire staff of the  Secretariat - who, whether we see them or not, are  essential to the good progress of an undertaking so  complex as ours, A special tribute should go to the  Indian staff, from the attendants in the meeting rooms  to the handsome Sikh with his curling beard and  characteristic turban, who, with so much good nature  summons our cars, Believe it or not, I sent a photo-  graph of him to my wife,. with the modest remark,  "Here is a handsome man for you at last",  Thanks to all this helpfulness, which gives proof  of a sincere desire for greater mutual understanding,  the delegations have not succumbed beneath the  weight of the documents, volumes and leaflets of all  kinds which have showered in upon us from every  direction; we have not been able to read and think  over them all as yet, but we are dutifully taking them  away with us, at the risk of having to pay a charge  for excess luggage on the ‘plane. Why? Because  these things represent a lasting pledge of friendship  and goodwill, They are like the smile of the people  of India, who have faith in Education and in Unesco,  the institution which best represents it in the present-  day world, That cheering faith could be felt all  around us, at every moment, everywhere, if only in  the note on which the word "friends" was uttered.  In conclusion I should like to read - not only for our  Indian friends, who are probably acquainted with it,  but also for all of us who are about to go our separate  ways - a passage from the Vedas, a hymn in an  English translation, only four lines, but four lines  which have come down to us from the immemorial  past and which, 1 feel, express in picturesque ‘and very  simple words the wish that lies in all our minds in  these troubled times, when mankind, and Unesco,  one of its authorized spokesmen, are seeking their  way towards the unification and the pacification of  the world:.  May the wind blow gently, bringing peace to us,  peace,  May the sunshine bring us happiness, peace,  May the thundering clouds bring down to us humble  rain...
(92) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr. Kuypers. I call upon the delegate  of Uruguay, Mr, Secco Ellauri,
(93) Mr. SECCO ELLAURI (Uruguay) (Translation  from the Spanish): Mr. President, gentlemen,  I wish to endorse the expressions of affection for  India which we have heard in this hall and to add that  we have tabled a motion, sponsored by various dele-  gations, for a vote of thanks from the General
11-23 PLENARY  Conference to the Government and people of India.  Of course, after hearing the previous speakers, we  may think this proposal à mere formality; perhaps  a formal motion may not have been neceasary to  express what so many speakers have said from this  platform,  When this Conference began, the majority of the  delegates had been in India only a very short time -  some à mere few hours. Nevertheless the Conference  started with warm expressions of thanks to India,  and they were not unfounded. They may have seemed  to be taking some things for granted; on trust, but  even our brief stay in New Delhi had already shown  us - at least as regards material arrangements - the  colossal efforts that the Indian Government and people  had made to receive us and to fulfil, indeed to exceed,  the responsibilities contracted towards Unesco,  This wonderful building, and the hotels which  have sprung up as if by the touch of a magic wand,  have shown us what the skill and energy of the Indian  craftsmen can achieve, - But we had algo received  the affectionate welcome of a péople which, from the  very beginning, has firmly associated itself with  Unesco's cause, Since this initial period, however,  which is already part of Unesco'a history, we have  spent 30 days in India - all too ghori a time, of  course, to become really acquaintéd with this vast  country, But durlig those 30 days we have worked,  we have also been able, fortunately, to escape from  the ties of thé Conference for an occasional week-'  end, to travel;: we have been able to see a lot and to  read more, Thus; little by little, we have begun to get  to know the Indian people and have been able to gee,  among other things, the advantage of Unesco's policy  which, two years ago, took the Organization to Latin  America and, today, has brought us to an Asian city;  the policy that has enabled Unesco to spread its wings  across the world to cover the multitude of peoples now  united under its banner. Our Organization can now  return to its Paris home for a while before sallying  orth again to meet the world,  “Today we can exprèse'an opinion about India - a  judgement which I admit is still superficial and  possibly goes no deeper than the surface of things,  but which comes from the heart. We feel that our  presence in India is in fact the first important step  in the major project on mutual appreciation of  Eastern and Western cultural values, for we have not  only met the people of India; on a serles of occasions  such as religious éeremonies, official visits, etc. ,  we can say that we have felt and seen the pulse of  Oriental life/in general,  We have learnt what India is: an immense mosaic,  Those of ug who came through Paris on our way here  heard our friends say: "Alors, vous allez aux Indes?"  The French prefer the plural when speaking of India  and the plural in fact gives a true picture of what  India is - pre-eminently diverse. It is a mosaic of  regions, of cultures, of peoples who treasure parti-  cular fragments of a rich and age-old past. We have  seen this diversity reflected in the dress and customs  of the passers-by and wonderfully translated into  different styles of art, This diversity in art, religion  and customs must not, however, Jead us into error:  notwithstanding the diversity of which I have been  speaking, India is really one and indivisible, We have  felt the mighty single pulse of an India which is coming    MEETINGS  to nationhood strong in its destiny, of a monolithic  India solidly grounded on the social, economic and  political facts of the present day, firm as the huge  pillars set up by King Ashoka which we have had the  opportunity of seeing.  We now admire India with a real appreciation of  her situation, because we have had the privilege of  witnessing an extraordinary sociological development  anu . most inspiring political adventure, We respect  India's leaders and we understand why, at this time,  India has supplied both the President of the Confer-  ence and the Chairman of the Executive Board,  We have now to express our gratitude, convey our  feelings on this occasion, and take leave of India with  the hope of returning some day when the burdens of  a Conference no longer weigh upon our shoulders and  when we can set out with all the freedom and delight  of those who travel for pleasure, on the road to Cochin  or Shalimar,  I cannot leave this platform, Mr. President, without  some reference to ourselves - that is, to Unesco -  but do not fear that I shall carry on too long. I meant  to confine myself strictly to what I had to say but I  have been somewhat carried away by my desire to  express our gratitude to the Government of India.  This Conference began its work under lowering  clouds; the storm has now abated, our optimism has  revived. But I am still disturbed because Unesco is  a child of war; it came into being immediately after  the Second World War, out of the sufferings of  humanity. The idéalists who created it never thought  that Unesco could miraculously and immediately abolish  the causes, terrors and, unfortunately, the realities  of war and violence = nor do we bélieve it, We are  really living through thé early history of Unesco"  with - as the delegate of Belgium so aptly said - an  eternity before us. Ii is right that we should feel  confident, since old Cronus, who divides man's great  historical adventure into periods, has reckoned in |  tens and hundreds of centuries, in thousands of years,  the ages duririg which men have rent each other with  recurring violence, Our existence spans a short ten  years, during which much has been achieved - and  much has been done by the present Conferénce. We  have pald our share of the debt we owe to the world.  I think, gentlemen, that by instilling the idea of  peace in the minds of men we shall gradually change  their outlook. We have, for centuries, been used to  see the world as ordinary maps show it to us, but  Unesco's banner is a map of the world viewed from  a very special angle, When we look at that banner,  the outlines of regions, countries and continents are  transformed, That is what Unesco is teaching man-  kind: a new point of view, a new way of looking at  things.
(94) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you Mr. Secco Ellauri. I call upon the delegate  of Canada, Mr, Brockington.
(95) Mr, BROCKINGTON (Canada): Mr, President,  ladies and gentlemen, I owe you an apology for my  inability to present a formal address to you. Perhaps
1 have been too lazy, If you can see the notes in my’  hand you will know the truth of thé remark once made  by a Mayor of New York that an impromptu speech is  not worth the paper it is written on.
272   PLENARY  Now, it is very pleasant to give thanks when thanks  are due and I must say that I have watched with  growing admiration the operation and uncommon skill  of the Director-General and his staff in the difficult  tasks which he has performied, I was not quite sure,  as I watched him, whether he and his staff are  operatic’ impresarios or tamers of wild animals,  Every hatfon, as we kiow by éxpérience, is a kind  of prima donna, and when I think of his operatic acti-  vities, I remember what à ‘¢tharacter said in "Utopia"!  a play by W.S, Gilbert: A man who can run a thea-  trical ère, each one à genius and some of them two,  can govern this twopenny State,  And when I thought of his difficulties as’ trainer  of wiid animals, 1 reniémbered two stories of my  boyhood, One was ‘of à menagerie keepér who said  to the audiericet "Walk'lip! here we have 17 apécies  of wild animals, all Hving amicably together in’ the  same cage, ‘I ee) your pañdéri, the other 16 are now  inside the Mon", And then I Fémember the other  unforfunate’ man who had as an ekhibit à lod and a  lamb lying € down together in’ the samé cage, He was  asked how he ni e to have lone dnd lambs lying  down togetheT, ii). the ‘same’ age, "Well", he said,  "I manage it by frequent’ renewals of lamb,  Now I am not going to’ shy inthis audiénce are  lions and who are jambs, rA 1 Ti ‘adré we'are all  grateful to the Diréctor-General and his staff, whether  they are oùr prodiicers ¢ or oUF keepers.  This is the third’ great meeting of Easteity dnd  Western minds’ - hearts and minds - ‘which I have  attended in the last twè or three’ years.’ “Not lg : ago,  Iwas In Athens, that ancient | ‘sanctuary ‘of "the freedom  of us all, that enfranchiser of the hüman mind, It was  of Greece of which it was once said that the Greeks  knew all the right ‘questions to ask, ‘ I maÿ say’ we ‘are  still searching for the right ahaweérs, ‘At the closing  session of 70 nations, ‘miny ÿ from thé” Eat & d from  the West, we met as the sun was setting be  Acropolis, We stood almost on the’ étaét iy here  Demosthenes once made his’ 'Bhssiaiate’ pleas for! the  freedom of his native larid. ‘ ve also St. Paul”  preached of the ‘Fatherhood | 5 God and the brother:  hood of man. ‘ And I think we all Tévilzed here and’  then that without brothérhood thére ésuld è noIrée-  dom, And we lawyers found a pride, wd, an inspira-  tion in ‘the knowledge ‘that’ thers were tye lawyers, ;  heralds of Unesco who both lookeif at the’ world with  eyes of pity and talked to it with tongues oft tire. One  came from thé West and the py! from the East,  And one was Abraham Line oln of the United ate !  of America, and the other was Mahatma Gandi,  The other thternationdl meeting that I attende à was  held in Scotland last year for the, celébration KE the  Bary of that ‘poet of the’ Fog ‘and liberty, da  Tere  than the Russian delegation, oo were headed plz,  famous Russian poet, who had recently translated ‘the  poems of Robert Burns into Russian - and any ‘of you  who read Burns will know that it must have been a;  formidable task. And in the first week, he told me, ,  he ‘sold 160, 000 ‘copies.’ Amongst the verses of Burns  which appealed to my Russian friends, and which are  koÿwn, no doubt, to you all, and have echoed in this  meëting as an inspiration, are some lines from i a  poem called "A Man's a Man for a' that‘, Now in the  MEETINGS
11-23  verse | am going to quate to you, there is one  difficult word, "gree" which is the Scottish word for  a prize, And this is .what that poem says:  "Then let us pray -  That come what may, :  As come it will for a! that,  That sense and worth  Through all the earth  Shall bear the gree  For a' that:  For a’ that, and a' that,  It's coming yet, fof a! that,  That man to man the warld o'er  Shall brothers be for a’ that",
1 came with these words echoing in my ears, with  high hopes, 16'this meeting, and those hopes remain  still undimmed, And I; speaking for my English- -  speaking confréres, would like first of all to thank  all those faithful men and women of many raées and  many peoples who have sought the truth, and have -  worked so hard to enlarge the human family and to  keep friendships, personal, national and international,  in repair. And I would like to say, for my own land  of Canada, that by the time of the next session of this  body we shall have long since set up a Canadian  Unesco Couricil for the first time; and it'is the hope  of all thé Canadlin délegates that our successors will  come better prepared by continued and continuous  study to ative thé ‘purposés of this great Organization.  As we go to our homes; there are many élitmmpsés-  and echoes which will totlow us {nto our wintérs and  our wandérings, ‘We shall remeber many things -  friendships’ and courtesies, ‘But thrée memories will  stand out'in my mirid about this'méeting, I think, above  all others. ‘I'shall rièver forget the Egyptian delegate,  whose splendid’ dignity and honotirablé fairness ini-  presséd us all; and I think a’ femärk he inade in the  Programme’ Comimiésioi; which youl may nôt ‘all have  attended, interpreted the ‘split of Uñéséô as well as  any ofhér words 1 have heard ‘spoken.’ For, in the  debate about the architecturs! and othér mohuments),  he paid ‘a tribute to the educational, scientific and  cultural assistance that throughout the Jeure had been  give to Ep by Britain and" Fraiice, ahd he ‘said  how sinéérel y happy he will bë when all misunderstand-  ings and difficulties have been! swept aside and that  grand ‘relationship is testored orice again.’  I'was {impressed toô, as I _hopé you’ were, when my  own ahndestral land of Britain "whose honour is 40 dear  to me and whose depärtures tom conduct ‘that is A  generally ‘approved so sad to me, when I saw my own  ancestral land of ‘Britain showing her best side, in °  voting wi] gly’ for thé resolutions sponsored by Egypt  and by Greèce.  I think I shall'never forget either thé moving èlo:  quence and sircerity’of Mr, Nehru. ‘Ard I would like  to say this about him." By his j perdonal ‘suffering  and sacrifices for thé freedom of his own land, he is  surely fit to be one of the great chatiplors of freedom  everywhere, And when | I hédi sore of thé things he  says, 1 am often re inded of a ‘great phrase by thé  Englishman, Tom aine, who helped the Americans  in thelr War of independence, When’ ‘somebody sald  to him: . "Wheré freedom ie, there is my country",  Paine replied: Where freedom is not, there is my ~  country",  Now of our thanks to India, to the Government and   ‘11-33  people of India; it is impossible to speak adequately.  inal few mata”: They have housed iis and enter:  tained us magnificently but, /above/all;ithey. have 1:  given us an opportunity unparalleled, at least in my  life, to enrich our common humanity. Now. as we go  away in the days to come jimhany littldithirigs will.  flash upon that inward eye. There are:some, scenes  to make us all very sad, scenes of suffering and 1  poverty, But I remember, in my youth, conditions  in Britain when there were terrible slums,iand where  ragged children with bare feet on winter nights sold  papers on the street cornets.': And [iremember =;  hearing a yount man from’ Ruskin: College, Oxford;  making a speech at that tine; and this im.what he said,  asifar as I remember: {'1 am an Englishman, , and §  suppose in à way.lanà prowd of the British Empire,  But Lath not concerned with an empire; wheraithe sun  never sets aa long asithere are thousands of back,  alieys where it never shines". And. so with-joy.Ithink  we sll witnesp India's careful planning and her deter:  mined effost to improve lot of her own; ren,  .11 have faith; sai am sure we all have, faith, da-her.  ability tp do 801 Luna of ad] Blues Lund hagas a  :1NOW these things, some. perhaps litle, things, about,  this cowatry § will not forget. in Periament House, ;  an the benediction which reigms over if, there is of :  an emblem of kingly majesty por,of.glory, nex, vain: ;  glory, ne sign of might on wealth ar. pf temporal,  «power, but the benediction that Jooks down from the.  walls of the Hose is the portrait of § man who was  Stenpis, in ie, afendtass In ith, saiily ln  J  samuel,  a man of infinite compasmion and unflin mp one  Ae Op, 0! Gu vi  viduals. : Where can you find  and courage, a 1,think, of India, LILA 8  duals. And I Andi  anywhere wore dividual ‘of snttnite variety? | have  meh ve ert i ur 3 en with,  age. qt wo A 1 dom fn, 5;  their hearts, 1, 2 amant cle  calm Ailes) in  ind!"      de poder 3  ness of thelr wd fe y {heir free |  land; end eyes sen Le And as  have, looked af them, , ths qu “  + 1 But. come, Jot fs iad pus (iin ie, orld, p pe i  maturely,, The ui pue Senin to diplo-  mbinatio) of macy, to the co y and 3 ii pad #1 Savi s,  mers aie. piven. ibe 0 hid voted, the enthy-  TR war park de ‘Ven re,  fli fey À hay em met  Saal à ancut+ he
1 haye meen à | sente mow: ue hl th wld be the  Papi 1. JOT, of. re hits on a  iB Fr by dr ok  Do a AHR yes  Be a
1 8, has Om Ph 89 1 (ordi par  liamen Ty ing 4 ve 2h their resdom € of debate,  Aer M 168p and the incorruptibility  of PLL (0 7 law tl  a fl \ if hi w ll dep As, a8 1 fi, byatble ddd  i rs da a) hE No soe id d sy yah i à A > li Lo ata À te i Lire yo Fitna:  re oy Hoe INT edd ow wd 69 bec Lune of o , e at  great glets a will gt Lok to ge. :  already, to a free world where some dey. right  PLENARY”
274  “ie  pi delégate ot Canada." Hid apéè  MEETINGS  will he .the.conqueror, and, wrong. the, conquersd,:  - It wa oweithanks ta Indls,, how, best CAN. we FERRY,  our dobi?,,, Let me mugaest that wy all go back 28,, 012  amhpaendors of her tolerance her bathed sf \iplepos,  her, passion for, human brotherhood. ; Let us remem:  ber that in this land there is {aking place before pal  eyes 8 hlanding of the spirit of the. Me, Whish Bruno  material and scents, progress snd, Ae gis gud  the ages, Whish is Jexmiion te Mo à » arth, i  skill of the, human hand apd bidding ay hy 3 en and  calm wisdom. , Abgye ail else Fe 7  us make à You, in the. inns rmost pe of pil i  hearts and minds that we,, the men and women, o f,  Unesco, will, .as far, ER ho  tolerate e domination, ape      aRE Cri donc  TE: 2, , fa, T n DURA fl r on J  tere = PE  A Lif up tn Coa  he 4 Cd A Bom: = oy |  s Sib a  Sn erie che  Ane iT) h gl ie  pho adel dod ably’ jt  i hi ua" A Set rw A H Gr!  an of à reason has not Tost’,  way  dre (x) ary ied) el ery’  ok , Led [ i  th lini» priyer.  a, * sie is from our oi     lands and sl AE CL A  (ee), he FRésipgiv (répsistation from the piuasiai  hank you, Mr, Brpénligion: J t gall} ‘upon 1 Mr. Edel  rie, EE pig of Spain,  a + - 250
6 Mr, BSTELRICH!(S à trié tdi tb” ai ne n a VE  ed 4 béginhlilg of © *-  thèse fare n hii esters wis pnd the impression  that no other Spanish: spea delégate had doñe bo,  Now ‘that Mr.‘ Sect Ellaurl; the delegate of Uruguay,  | spoken, ‘with ‘ali the onience ind charin which  chärdétérisé him," there’ id né need tor: ‘mie to’ ‘repéat -  whit He his said so well,  > But if thes 1 is ohé thing I should Like to say & tor’  se ait 1  We fave Bedn Hiding tb thé moving i véféren 706 |  to Iidid" ad té the Orient 2 the moin ‘just etre  ch rétinded tie of |  of you wilt probably  ahd vet  oT das  «ppt tide of Kiplinj's that maty  rétogiiize: "Euët td Bast and: West’ is West  the twain shall/médt", "0 CUS  f£ “ 12!   PLENARY  We of Unesco have come here to give the Lie direct  ta thin false prophecy. ‘We have demonstrated and:  are proving ali the time that East and West can meet;  understand each other and be friends. And this under-  standing and friendship between Eest and West are  the true guarantees, the essential foundations, of  whatever peace the world may find in the future. |  . PY SE I REN [CE SI A
(88). The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr, Esteirich, - I call upon Mr, Selyidain,  the delegate of India. -
(99) Mr. SATYIDAIN (india); Mr, President, fellow -  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I rise on behalf of  the Indian delegation to supplement the remarks made  Ly the President of the Conference and the leader of .  the Indian delegation,. to thank you all most sincerely  for your gracious speeches and the sentiments of.  friendship and appreciation that you haye so generous-  ly expressed for our country, Though | have the un-  comfortable conviction that any speech, after the  great speech of Professor Brockington, will be in the  nature of an anti-climex,.  These speeches have moved us deeply particularly  the poble tribute paid to Mahatma Gandhi by our die-.  tinguished colleague, Professor Carneiro, |, lesaure -  you that it has been a privilege as well as a pleasure  for us to act as host country to Unesco - a none tog.  closely guarded secret which you must have discovered  for yourselyes by now. We are happy that thin has |  given you an opportunity of seeing something of our  country and of our way of life, our hopes and our .  aspirations, and the modest measure of success that  we have 30 far achieved, |
1 should like to take this, opportunity, if 1 may, to.  share with you, for what, they are worth, gome sens  and observations that have. occurred to, me during, ,,  this closely packed month of our. deliberations. Iam  dat vain enough to hope that I have anything original  to offer, but there is perhaps some adyaniage in ,.  taking an overall view of the wood when too many  trees have been engaging our attention from day to  day. Ihave to crave your indulgence for encroaching  on your time at this stage and I trust you will pot  regard it as an abuse of the host country, . I must  Also apologize. for the fact that, as a result of an  wilsely indisposition, my voice bas a good deal of  that dubious’ quality which the distinguished Rappor-  teur of the Programme Commission rather modestly  claimed for his" own. :  have often asked myself "what ia the most "signifi  cant feature of the modern world, which determines,  or rather should determine the ‘characieristic pattern  of our actiyities in the national as well as. the inter-  national sphere. - -Perhaps the most important thing  that has emerged from the great developments that  rie en pins in the worid faring this prier is  bèrat,  severely alone or of hom 1 we must und oi to get the  betler somehow - anyhow? Well, the kind of world  which the second alternative envisages has latierly  cesged to exist, and Unesco, as well as other  Specialized Agençies ‘of United Nations, is be  to realize it with increasing clarity and force, Even
278  "MEETINGS     Hs23  though some nations:seem to behave as if the, old,  world were still there, as if Ihot") and cold! wars,  exploitation, racialism, icolonialiam still paid; ns Af  erecting walls that divide in .really. better. than bois  building bridges that alte; .ag if, in the words of the,  prophet of Arables He bo diga a pel for big catiin  brother! will pot evenfuelly “fall tate 14 higapalin.") |  . During tha Jent decade, the basis luspiretion f à 01  Unesço'a work has, bean the faith that the fotal resi  sources of the world in the d of, né pis at dun  acience and culture should be mobilized. and, with 1.  the aid of the powerful. media. of mass communjostion,  made.the heritage of the entire human rage, sQ; that in  due. course of time and in ressonable measure. they i  become ayailable an much to the dark man in the Zuly  hut as they are to the, citizen, spy, of the gracious. , 1  city of Washington or Paris or Moscow, My reapact-  ful plea to this Organization, and to the alster and:  parent organizations, is this: +40 not let this, process,  be disrupted by wars or, threats of wars and, 195...)  God's sake, (1st i} not be, tog, slow or gradual. If is,  not merely that time now. moves foater and. concious  ness of rights develops more, rapidly. and Porte i.  patience is limited, All that is. no doubt tra Ag bass,  I am slag, reminded of the Great warming of Lo PA TTI  Buddha, that if we get about, doing, good, oo pm. ny  evil sneaks in ot once and; with, forces, Ahore 18. ic...  always the danger that, while we are building OUT);  small dykes here and there, far pack through ‘reek  and lei 2, alent flooding ma n may. come, 2, 1.1,  whe op efences pl setting, poe Ros  by our Hi Jo as pipe à i  us, however, strong or Powertp) OF apparent die  we may be, that ye are AUTRE pratt ve Bof ons  tr pen, EVE haat 254 und spin:  same ru 4413 Ely Ay Ko as
3 pho, AR. wen ip Th ail  bo bave, ny > 1° rang: offi  pren buf Lai ply Antg Jia} of 49 for... 1  this reason tu we, hay 5 bern sirenicg He this C ons,  feyence the baxic objectiven o A interna fone re it  + ard peace; 37 at we ha ve Ten perle pe  with, irritating frequency, the need to forge vi ta} lake  between this objective rpg All our prog Fer  we have prénéed fo à © claprer, definition of prioritie ;  that we bave fought ; oran lnc res bi pagel  welgço pont the, major, proje a bod wip ; the, by te  expannios oÙ fie woope of tpchalens agpiélenge. di, na  a result of ot ur deliberati a flan “West prov,  fect Ley 8 ting bis rte se  prej Vem ton And hi shelter, this ls Conference wil  have 1 made jte mark. EI NUE a MAL oi  know flat ase, Cp Ay y dhe, she tor  the sping § peer PRE harves yaaa Aped,  HE EE ou a TD en car CEE,  We con F Me Contere nos fo bo e fhscet ni 1 heçause,    in spite of ali ¢ Sur. EE  malo, MP A LU LE  large measure Py Ep T,unde ting } of;  and SPProac 10) basic epi 2 pr Di tte 7 Ye pt Lrrérs  tried to i pe our, wey sod 2  our P: fat Ë ! Te ca ra ret Ke,  our pryced pore oo apie sn EE ne art,  towards 1 the Jlacovery of the great secret to, cut  down repetitive speeches and make ske Sean of liad   II-23 PLENARY  We have ‘succeeded, against rather heavy odds, in ‘  revising upwards the céiling which preceding Confer-  ences had set’ {0a rather thodest budget, We have  debated the various issues in an atmosphere of reason  and good temper; wé have no doubt had a few sharp  differences of opinion and controversies; but what {e  a Conference ‘worth to the world press if there are  no such contfoversies? But we have dealt with them  without Iniparting uinécessaïy bitterness to them;  we have even ‘managed to éliminate, at least to some  extent, acerbity from discussions over Egypt, Hungary  and Cyprus, over the admission of the Peoples’  Republic of China tô Unesco, and some othér issues,  Perhaps the spirit of India, which is the spirit of the  Buddha and Gandhi and encompasses the ideology and  techniques of Nehru, may have had something to do  with it, °  Some of us, ‘who were present at the first prepara-  tory Conference in London in 1945, and the first  General Conference in Paris in 1946, had hôpéd, in  our naive enthusiasi;- that Unesèo could become in  due course ‘a forum where teachers; artists, writers,  sclentists and others, working in the world of mind  and meaning, "could come ‘together evéry year to dis-  cuss objedtively, without being (do shy ‘of ideas, the  great issues that face ‘mankind, * They could thus ‘  assist; through | their particular media; what thé  politicians and’ statesmen âré alleged to'bé doing:  through political ‘measures - that is,’ 5, to bring a more  just, more realistic, more kindly dnd rôre decent  social order into. being. - In’ that’ hope,” ‘We have been  somewhat disappointed.’ As Unedco has grown ‘in  strength aiid’ fri influence, {18 datirally becoming  more closely tied’ ‘up with Poles,” ‘ahd Member -  States and délegatés'éorñe with more Hgldly’ defined  briefs from which they, cänriot nofmally depart,’ This  has, no doubt’ certain ‘advantages because 44 éhablés  them to speak more’ dtior atively. on important  issues of policy, bik it does take away, does’ it Hot,  from that Sensé éf fréeddm which léridé i{veliness to  disciissidn arid ‘reality to’ debate, While full freedom  of mind’ forthe’ atvlial delegates is not for the:  prébeht ‘teasiblé in international ofganizations, ‘dare  we not hôpe that as the clash of opposing ideologies  becomes leds’ sharp: ‘and trust replaces suspicion,  Unesco ‘dlacussions may acquiré increasing freedom  and autonomy 47 ally défloiüs moral and poli-  tical ‘issues; delégaten’ Tidy be able to speak thelr  minds freely ‘dnd fearlgsaly? ¢  Our great ledger; ‘Mahatma ‘Gandhi; ‘all his’ life ‘  preached ‘and practised the ‘exacting doctrine “that ho  loyalty is gréatér’ than thé loyalty to truth - “netther’ .  loyalty to the community, nor the ñation, nor to the  race - ‘but his yas’ not by any means the Jone’ voice  in histo: "to ‘say ‘80. * In'évery age, fréin'thé time of  the Budd à afid Soträtes dowhwiards, there’ have been  fearless men of initellgctiial and” ioral’ courage and  men of God, who b ve, Hald the same thing.” It {8 our  impérative duty here’ and elsewhere to’ make pe  voice Heard, abové the batité ‘cried and | to demonstrate  that soliddrity of moral’ ‘courage which only dileglance  to the’ foie of riith'e éar n ‘bring. ï submit to ÿou in ail  humility ‘that We should ‘courageously’ accept that  responsibility, with all'ihé risks it may involve,  though to’ my mind théy ¢an rever be so ‘great as’  the’ risks involved in the’ worship of expediency and  the exaltation of sectional or geographical = °  MEETINGS
276  interests over the interests of the human ‘ râce, -‘  The ever-recurring question of the relationship of:  Unesco to poliiics has dogged our footsteps here also,  While it is clear that political issues, as such, are  not our direct concern, I am not one of those who  believe that in Unesco we can eschew them altogether.  In the deeper meaning of the words; as our President  pointed out in his forceful address, they are inter-  woven into the texture of all our conce oy, though  naturally our approach to them is ditfei Vat, as it has  to be envisaged in terms of our Constitution, .  Is the question of war and peace, for instance, a  purely political issue? Are we not deéply and pas- }  sionately involved in it? Unesco is essentially an  instrument for promoting a climate of peace in the ‘  hearts and minds of men; where tear and greed and '/  pride of race often dwell and carry on their ugly  distorted darice: Unless, in association with other :  agencies, 'it succeeds in ‘atrengthening thé climate -  of peace, we ‘dare not hope either for improvement B  of the material lot of the common man or for the  enrichment of his cultural'life or the’ peaceful dppll- -  cation of the resources of modern gciénce for con:  structive purposes, If peace is not ensured, all  those new and fnarvéllous resources will bé diverted  irresistibly into chañnels’of war and destruction and’  all our hopes and visions and dreaiiis will go dowh the  drain with them: So long as thé"law of force ‘can’ *°  become the ugly substitute for the force of law'in -  international relations, ‘Unesco cafinot, with all thé  good will in'the world, make an’ effective contribu’ 4  tion to the safeguarding of individual digiiity and tree:  dom, without which’ every other good thing is aptio  lose its savour, But thie is not mérély'é à'matter of ?  brave declarations: ‘we must’ always keep reminding  ourselves that this’ néèds patient, careful and com: -  prehensive plaritiing, that the déferices of’ peace we"  are always talking about have to be bütlt-in ‘defences;  like modern furniture, built-in {6 dur educatidi’ ‘ ‘  system, our cultural institutions, ‘our teaching of “  science and oui mass media, 80 hat théy may} he  a cumulative timpact on’ the’ ‘minds ‘of childreñ ; and >  youth ‘when they are receptive’ and \AincoFtiptéd bys"  cynicism,’ Even today, ins pite of Ali the efforts *  which havé bee made by men ‘and Womén of goodwill  all over thé world, ‘the intérriational situation is "pod  precariously over the’ Fazor's edige’ of disaster and it  is our duty, ds “Unéscéns, to issue & timely call of”  warning and reaffirm oür devofidh to ‘peice.  I venture to submit, with great respect, “that, @ ’  Mves of individuals as of nations, ‘there {s ‘à tiré tor  caution and a time for couräge, ‘dd ‘this 18 the Hime”  for courage, There {a a'time’ fo poly; based on |  selfish interests, ‘and a ‘t{meé’ for action based’ ont  faith + faith in man and the dignity of, maf; ‘taith FLO  the ideals of justice ‘and humah brotherhood,” of peace  towards which the’ spirit ‘of mar hada ! Jways’ éapiredi ‘  and this is the time for faith,” Thete & à time for  the criticism of ofhietä añd'à time for self- -ritfclam,  when we riust sit in Yelentless Judgement of dlrgelvés,  and this is thé time foi selt-criticism, ‘But, if I maj  say so, there is always time for decéncy’ and’ charity:  and compassion and tolerance and ap reclation of the  other man's feélings, and the heallñg touch for the ‘  wounds of the body and the spirit that he may hive’  suffered, either at our hands or at the hinds of  ott >rs. Unesco can do riothing môre important than’     La   PLENARY  use its special resources to assert the supremacy  of these values and to win over the active and whole-  hearted co-operation of all the intellectuals and the  creative workers of the world in this cause, Great  lé no doubt the power of armaments, but greater by  far is the power of ideas and ideals which are held  with conviction, preached with faith and lived with  sincerity.  May I, in conclusion, sir, 'rendér dur sincere  thanks once again to all the delégations and to the  Director-General and his capable, courieous and  efficient colleagues for their appreciation of what  India stands for - its pattern of thought and culture,  its devotion’ to peace, «its senéitiveness to the values  of the spirit - and of what little we have been able to  do in recent years for the building up of our country,  when they éxpressed this’ appréciation, in terms  which are all too generous. All that we can claim is  that that is the direction in which we are trying to  move undér our present leadership,  We can ‘also perhaps claim that ours is an eclectic  pattern; not - ‘as our Vicé-President, Dr. Radha-  krishnan, has aptly put it - an’ either/or, black-or-  white pattern of stark alternaiives. ‘It is a ‘pattern  in which the deliberations of Unesco, the Buddha"  Jayant{ celebrations,” the mighty: river valley projects,  small-gcale cottage industilées): thé‘old'and persistent  devotion to the values of the spirit ‘and the riew and  extending devotion td science; thé multiplicity of our  resources, cultures and’ religions, as well aa our  baslé unity - all these can somehow’ find a’ synthesis,  It is not yet a clear, well- defined! comfortäbly  established synthesis; péfhaps it should never be  tbo comfortably established; büt it ddes indicate a  goal towards which wë are striving, _narmely the  building of à marision with many rooms, into’ which  breezes can ‘blow from all ¢orners of thé ‘world, and  creative and humanistic ideds from éfl sources can  find a welcome Tefuge, ‘And so; ‘ friends and  colledgues, fare you well and take with you our  message of goodwiil and friendship aiid love to’ your  peoples ‘and countries, ‘Wherever ‘you happeii to be,  we ghall be strengthened in dur efforts and purposes  by the thought that théré are kindred minds'in all”  parts of the world who share our hopes and aspira-  tions and aie striving towards’ the same ends, and  that, as & Persian’ poet has ‘put it = And may I make a  present of that to the distitignished delegate of Iran -  “Though our hearths may be pitched far apart, our  hearts will beat in unison’.
(100) The PRESIDENT" (Transtation from the’  Russian): Fellow delegates, I'shoiild like tô thank  ‘the délegiite of Indfa, Mr. Salyidain, for his excep-  tionally interesting speech, Allow me to say a few  words,  The President's task {a‘always a ditt’ one but,  as you will well dndersatand, mine’ today 1a particular-  ly onerous since I come after a whole galaxy of ’  brilliant orators at thik, the final meeting of our  Conference, I hope, however, that 1 shall have your  indulgence,  We have done à lot of work {i'ouf’ commissions,  ‘tbmmittees, and plenary riéetfigs!" The atiriosphere  has aométimies been vé triendlÿ; but there have,  on oécasion, been arguments, ind heated words have  been exchanged, But the important thing is that we  MEETINGS
11-23  have, in many cases, succeeded in reaching agree-  ment afterwards, Every instance of agreement  reached after dispute is important in two respects,  It is important on account of the question involved, .  because, after reaching a decision, we then write it  into Unesco's programme to guide the practical work  of our Organization on the subject, | Besides its  practical significance, each case is also very impor-  tant for the principle established, since every time  agreement is reached after dispute we are, perhaps:  even without realizing it, demonstrating the value of  negotiation and joint discussion on knotty problems  as a normal and correct form of co-operation between  peoplé of different countries and different races,  linked by common cultural ideals and the desire to  serve humariity,  The work of this Conference has been marked by  the emergence of several new projects and ideas; -  such, for instarice, as thé major projécts.. In working  out these three major projects, we are, as it were,  feeling 6ur wiy; Unesco has no previous experience  of this kind of-activity,. The major projects initiated  at the Unesco Général Conferénce in Montevideo are,  so to speak; -ouf joint invention,. As we know; an  inventor looks after his'brain-child ;- anid is not content  merely with fine'looking blue- -prints. 3 if he id a true  creator, he will not shirk ‘going to the workshop or  factory, getting his hands grimy and oily; and seeing  his ideas carried out {in practice,” Thus, we too must  follow up the practical implementation of these major  projects patiently and energetically, without fearing  to soil our Hands - the East-West project;. the project  on primary education in the Latin American countrics,  and the projéct on scientific research oh arid lands,  Their success will depend on the ability of the Unesco  Secretariat-and the National Commissions in every -  country to enlist the co-operation of the leaders of  culture; thé foremost experts in the fields of science,  literature, ‘art and education, © If this can:be’doneji::  then our scheiie - thé niajor projects = Will get off -:  to a flying start; and take itd’ place alongside othér  leading undertakings in the cultural life of the world;  We have made an interébiing innovation’ at this Con-'  ferencé by deciding to support new fornié of regional  activity; a step which was inevitable since, at the  present stage in Unesco's growth and development,’  some méans must bé devised for combining central-  ized administration with regional activities by  National Commiigsiona and Sloser regional links and  contacts. - °  One of thé smportaint undertakings: supported by  this Conference is the’ compilation of a History of  Mankind, work on which has already begun, ‘It is  essential to ‘employ all‘itéans of éncouraging' this  kind of scholarly shidy, designed to bring out and  emptiasizé all thôgé events, throughout past centuries,  which have united the peoples and linkéd then togé-  ther: for the experience of history ¢an help to  promote arid strerigthen international understanding.  Intéresting Ideas ard édritained‘in thosé resolutions  which deal with the préblems of peadeful'co-opération  between countries with different social,’ etonomie  and political’ systems!” Therë is no doubt that the  beneficial effécts of this Kind of co-operation will be  felt by vast sections of the World's population. ‘The:  peoples desire peaceful coexistence as a rieans of  easing interriatiorial tension; spreading confidenéé   M-#3 PLENARY  and mutual!rbæpect;i And providing for lasting peace :  and sécurity.amohg the nations, v And this in turn. .:  crestes'a'natural; healthy: atmosphere’ conducive to :  genliné‘culturäl-achievemente; «1 iv: burt ivan, = ©  ‘Thanks to the conditions'in which the Conference - ..  lian béen'held and ‘thé ‘composition of the national dele-  gations] we have been able td accomplish a large  amount of work and to achieve significant results in.  a comparatively short space of tie; AU those. who :  have spoken from tiiis platform have agreed that we:  are indebted to the Governmerit of India for providing  such favourable conditions, The Indian Government,  Indian’ cultural:and intellectual ciroles; and the: . -  Indian people as & whole have surrounded us with an ,  atmosphere of uhfailing hospitality and friendliness.  It is my privilege once more to sum up.the-feclings  of this gathering; and to:convéy.our deep and sincère  gratitude: to the President of the Republic of Indiy, i  Mir, Rajendra Prasad; i to.the Prime Minister, Mr.  Jawaharlal Nehru; . to the Vice-President, Dr, :i!  Radhakrishnan; : and to the Minister of Education; :  Natural Resources and Scientific Research, Maulana  Abul Kalam Adad; the President of this Conference. -  A special building ‘was put up for the Unegco Confer-  ence; mn magnificent building in the beautiful Indian. :  national stylé of architecture, excellently designed  with a real understanding of the requirements of, .:  international conferences, iad cul util, 1 2 805 5 8  +.1We set up a multitude of working parties, comr ..  misaions,!committees and subicommitices, (which...  worked simultaneously! but this excellent building ..,  : was designed with such'an appreciation of man's ..  . boundless’ iniagination in the creation of such com-:  mitteesj.workinÿ parties and sub-committees that, 1;  nevertheless, quite half of the premises. remained ;  wl  umised; and all our, meetings were held in: exceptionally  convenient conditions, iis. 150-2 ‘ul! tary of Un :  .+/The tteasurés of Indian art have heen'generously; ;  laid out before ua.i) The delegates to the Confereace :  have been!given an opportunity te see the marvellous  architecture, of India with its. rich carving.and woader-  ful frescoes; -to: enjoy; Indian national dancing; 305.0  hear the, music: and songs.of the various peoples of; :  India;..toiwitness. the development. of the. new Republic  of India; of which: New. Delhi is the architectural: >.  symbol. ;.We have alo been, able to:see something...  of Indian life end customs,.snl,the agerold traditions  of the Indian people, .in ancient: cities such as Benarçs,  Agra; Jaipur, Ajanta, Aurangabad and countless :1..7  others, We are profoundly grateful to the Government  and cultural yepresentativea of India for the wonderful  exhibitions arranged, in connexion with the Conference,  the displays concerts and film shows.: In addition to  the many contemporary. exhibitions showing the... .  achievements of modern India, there wore also. excel-  laut bistoxicel oxhibitions,: including the magnificent.  ong. of Budéhistiart. un; >! prog od Latins won dante  All thege arrangements enabled the delegates to our  Conierxence io. see and appreciate: the wonderful,  achievements. of Indian art and çivi lization, and, thus  aptietied our ardent desire to. mow, more of this: land,  It is true that the, pressure of the work of the Confer-  ence sometimes prevented, us {rom spending as long  an we would. bave wished admiring the treasures of |  Indian civilization. : Small wonder that many, of those  attending the Conference. suifered the torments of. .  Tantelus |; But, we had the chance of seeing for our:  MEETINGS
278  selves the admirable harmony of Indiau art which .,:,  Ashoka, ‘more than two thousand years ago, described  as the harmony of moral purity, nobility, and spiri-;  tuality.: We were able to see Indian art and civiligar,  tion at first hand, and to appreciate the extraordinary  feeling for beauty which is expressed in the work of :  the great writers, poets and philosophers of India;  and exicts, too, in every ordinary Indian man, in  every ordinary Indian woman dressed in her wonder-  fully graceful sari with its exquisite zolour-combina-  tions. We perceive that all this beauty is echoed in :;  the hearts andiminds of the subtle, artistic people of.  India, iUnfortunately; the delegates really had very ;  little spare time. In Indian philosophy three condi-,,  tions characteristic of human existence are des-. |:  cribed:. wakefulnean, sleep with visions and algep  without visions, . We.at this Conference bave been, ,  mostly in the first of these three, conditions, that of  wakefulness without visions - although we sometimes  arrived here half asleep after nights spent reading  our documents, ;But the strenuous work of the Con-  ference has borne fruit, and the delegates will take. .  home with them to their own countries the, decisions ,  of the Conference, which will certaialy further  Unesco's work, sal} te TO [R13 F725 QUICHE SEXINESS 2) CISHY I  : Lwould like.to take, this opportunity. of conveying,  our. thanks to the- President, of the Conference, i.  Maulana Azad; and to the VicesPrepidents,, who 1:  have taken the Chair at plenary. meetings and meetings  of the General Committee; the delegate of Brasil, ,..  Mr, Capanemaj ithe delegate of the Federal;Republic  of Germany, Mr, ;Hallgtein; the delegate of Indonesiy,  Mr, Soebardjo; the delegate of Iran, Mr, Hekmat; … 4  the delegate of Liberia, Mr, Massaquoi; The deleuss  of Pakistan, Mr. Zahiruddin;. the delegate. of the.  United States of America, Mr., Allyn; the. delegate. i”  of France, Mr. Bordeneuye;,. and the delegate of... :  Equador, Mr, Arreyo; 1 also, wish to. thank, Oftsis  replaced any. of. the above Vice-Presidents, who, have ;  been absent or have Jeff Now Delhi. . I trust 1 AM Lam  expressing the general feeling of all delegates to the,  Conference in thanking the members of, the General,  Committee who presided oyer, the work of the most .;  important Commissigns and Comralitees, Firat,  must mention the Chairman of the Programme Com;  mission; Mrs. Myrdal, the delegate of Sweden, wha,  performed | her, difficult duties with the man, hssan at  thoroughness and tact), combining feminine charm,’  with masculine firmness. She was helped by th YI  delegate of Afghanistan, Mr, Anas, and the Rappor-  teur, Mr,; Cameron, a delegate of Canada; i; (501)  The, Admisiateative. Commission also worked very,  hard,, noder, the chairmanship of Mr, Gardner Davies,  assisted by, Mr, Savain; delegate of Hait{, and Mr,  Baugnict, delegate of Belgium. br  I should alsa, like to thank the Chairman of the;  Credentials Committee, Myr, Kahyda,; the delegate.  of Czechosloyükia; the Chairman of the Nominations  Committee, Mr, Mallea, the delegate of Argentina; ;  the Chairman, of the Legal Committee, Mr. Matsui,  delegate of Japan; the Chairman of the Advisory bai  Committee on Programme and Budget, Dr. Aguil  delegate of the P es; and ala the Répporteurs,  Mr., Kjems (Denmark), and Mr, Arthur (United  Kingdom); the Chairman of the Ad Hoe Committee ,  for Budget Adjustments, Mr, Zulawski, the delegate  ait