ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION
(82) Mr, FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) stréssed that there  was nothing ‘either in the Unesco’ Constitution or in the  Rules of Procèduré to prevent the Commission from  examining the document, ior was there anything to  prevent the Executive Board fron submitting it with-  out expressing as opinion on the decisions to be taken.
(53) Mr," AHMED (Bakistan) agreed that the Commis-  sion wis at ty té‘éonsider the applications if”,  #0 desired, but thoiight it would be preferable to sve  the advice of the Executive Board theréon, He the *-  fore proposed that the matter be reférred back to ti.  Executive Board, and that consideration by the  Administrative’ Commission be postponed pending  receipt of the advice of that body.
(54) Mr. VERONESE (Italy) (Representative of the  Executive Board) said that, if the Commission  fatutsd on having the advice of the Executive Board,  the latter would try to meet its wishes. Asa  compromise solution, he proposed that the Commis-  "sion decide on cases which raised no special problems  and consult the Board on difficult cases,
(55) Mr, AHMED (Paidotany tel it ight not be easy  to determine which applications could be accepted  without difficulty until somie time had already been  wasted in discussion. For that reason, he maintained  that all the applications submitted should be referred  back to the Executive Board for advice,
(56) Mr, de 'HOOG Netherlands) thanked the Vice-  Chairman of the Executive Board for proposing a  compromise solution. He pointed out that the objection  he had raised had been a puroly legal ont and said  that, if there were no difficulties in that respect, his  view was that the Commission should examine all the  documents,
(57) Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Soélalist Republics)  thought it would be desirable to have the views of the  Executive Board but that, since the Board had not  been able to issue recommendations, the Commission  might well examine the documents in question itself,    V-10  If the Commission were nevertheless, as proposed by  the delegate of Pakistan, to'ask the Board for its  views, it might simply find itself, later, back again  in the samé position; in which case the net result  would be to delay the Conimission's study of the  documents before it, The delegate of the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics thought the Commission  should proceed to study the substance of the documents  immediately. |
(58) Mr, Ngajen-QUANG-FRINH (Viet Nam) supported  the Pakistan delégate's proposal, He urged the -  Commission to request the Executive Board to assist  it in'its task, even if night meetings had to be held,  He felt that no decision could be taken without expert  advice and thought that the Board was a committee of  experts with greater competence in the matter than  the Administrative Commission.
(59) ME. BERKELEY (orriée: of the Director-General)  did not believe there was any legal problem and  thought the Commission was free to take any decision  it considered wise, The Executive Board had made  what amounted fo'a negative recommendation, {.e. -  that it had no recommendation to make in the matter.  He felt obliged to draw attention to a resolution  of the eighth session, whereby a decision on six  applicdtions submitted to that session had been  adjourned to the ninth session. A décision on those  six applications at least should accordingly be  taken at the current session,
(60) The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to  decide, by voting, whether it would itself examine  documents 9C/ADM/17 and Addendum or whether it  would refer them back to the Executive Board for  advice, .
(61) It was decided by 29 votés to 2, with 7 abstentions,  that the Administrative Commission would itsel?  examine the documents concerned,  The meeting rose at 1 p.m,  EIGHTEENTH MEETING
23 November 1956, at 3 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. SAVAIN (Haiti)  APPLICATIONS BY INTERNATIONAL NON-GOVERNMENTAL  ORGANIZATIONS FOR ADMBASION TO CONSULTATIVE  ARRANGEMENTS (document 9C/ADM/17 and Addenda)
(1) The CHAMMAN ‘asked the Commission to decide  on the applications Appearing in the various appendices  ‘to document 9C/ADM
619  Appendix 1 - Académie internationale de la céramique
(2) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) supportéd the  application of the above organization.
(3) Mr. STAHL (Sweden) said that, as hé had been  in favour of including all the organizations making   v-18  - Applications for consultative status in the review, to  be made in two years' time,, of non-governmental .  organisations having such status, and as the Commis -  sion had decided against such inclusion, he would :  abstain from voting on an the applications before the  Commission.
(4) - ME, “DE BEAUVAIS (France)étated that aithough  France was, in principle, in favour of admitting to -  consultative arrangements all international non-  governmental organizations which were sufficiently .  représentative; whatever their tendencies might be,  ‘the French delegation considered that, as it had just  been decided to carry out a general review, on the  basis of new criteria, ‘of the list of orgaaizations  already admitted tô such arrangements, it would be  difficult to approve the applications of new bodies at  the moment. His delegation would therefore abstain  from voting on the applications before the Commis -  sion, with the exception of those from the few  organizations which already had close working  relations with Unesco.
(5) Mr, AVEROFF (Greece) supported the application  of the "Académie internationale de la céramique".
(6) The application of the "Académie internationale  de la céramique" was approved by 30 votes to 0,  with 6 abstentions.  Appendix 2 - Catholic International Association for  Radio and Television
(7) After several delegates had supported it, the  application was approved.
(8) Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  asked that it be stated in the records that he had  abstained from voting on that proposal.  Appendix 3 - Fédération internationale d'éducation  physique
(9) The application of the above body was approved by
31 votes to 0, with 12 abstentions,  Appendix 4 - Inter-American Association of  Broadcasters
(10) Mr. ORIBE (Uruguay) aupporied the application  of that organization, which was of considerable  importance in South América.
(11) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) asked whether the  organization was truly international, as required by  the Directives that it had been decided to follow, .
(12) Thie DIRECTOR-GENERAL paid that, in the view of  the Secretariat, thé Inter-American’ Association of  Broadcasters fulfilled the necessary criteria, Its  activities were, however, confined.tg one large area  of the world and it might be argued that it was too  restricted in its {nternational character, It was for  the Commission o decide whether to accept such’ ‘  regional organizations as international ‘organiza-  tions suitable for © approval for consultative  status. 2,
620  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION
(13) Mr, JOCHAMOWITZ (Peru) felt that a  sympathetil; attitude. should be adopted, and that  consideratiçh should be given to the fact that the Io  région ir which the Association carried on its sortvily  comprised hol entire hemisphere. ,
(14) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) said that, while né fully  understood thuit it wes impossible for the organisation  under discussion to extend its activities beyond the.  Western Hemisphere, . he was anxious to know hati  the Association maintained regular contacts with  similar organisations in other regions of the world,
(15) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL did not know whether  the organization Rad contacts with other similar  organizations elsevhére, Its aims were universal in  character, and it cculd be assumed that it did have  such contacts, *
(16) Mr. 'ORIBE {Uruguay) said that the Association.  had official contacts with various international bodies,  “an Mr; SUNDARAM ( (India) récalied {na the  Directives governing the granting of consultative  status, already adopted by the Commission, laid  down that regional organizations did not require to  be classified as international organizations {nthe |  true sense of the term. . “ ‘organizations trom other  regions could join the Inter -American Association it  Broadcasters, it could be classified as an international!  organization, He was willing to grant consultative  status to the organization if confirmation could be  given that other similar organizations could join,
(18) Mr, de ‘60a (Netherlands) ‘pointeid out that, |  under the Directives’ just’ approved by the Commis-  sion (Section II A), ‘consultative arrangements  could very ‘well be granted not only té fully Inter-  national organizations, but also to regional organiza:  tions. It was clear that the Inter-American  . ..,  Association, of Broadcasters ‘should be classifi d fm 5;  the second | group. ‘He thought, however, ‘that  Association met all the ‘requirements necessary tor )  the admission c ofa régional organization to  consultative arrangements.’
(19) Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgluim) entirely agreed with.  the Netherlands delegate and supported the application  of the organization in question, which not only met the  requirements laid down in the Directives, but also  apparently maintained the necessary contacts with  broadcasting organizations in other regions of the  world, -
(20) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) explained that his  object had been to obtain some details on the latter  point.
(21) Mr. GA BZA (Department of Mass‘ Communication)  said that tha Inter-American Association of Broad-  casters had às members 1 .moré than 90 Percer ‘cent of the  broadcasting stations in Latin Americd, the United *  States of America, Canada and the Caribbean Teglon  and was not solely dependent on éfficiai ‘broadcasting  stations, le added that two or three years previously  it had taken steps to establish contact with the European  Broadcasting Union and the International Broadcasting   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION V-18  Association in order to discuss the possibility of  erçchanging programmes between European and  American stations, : ‘  - 33) Mr, MONTES (Chile) pointed out ptet the Assocla-  - tion was carrying out activities of international -  interest and, .as 3, 000 broadcasting stations and 500  television stations were members, it was able to give  wide publicity to [nesco's objectives,
(23) Mr, SUNDARAM (India) had no serious objection  to the merits of the organization, and asked whether  the grant of consultative status to an organization of  its type would set a precedent,  ’ (24) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, in reply, drew  attention to the list of organizations already having  consultative arrangements with Unesco (document 9C/  ADM/ 15), A quick glance would show that the  organizations described in Appendices 2, 19 and 37,  amongst others, had the same type of regional  character as had the Inter-American Association of  Broadcasters, which really covered not only Latin  American States but also States outside that narrow  concept ofa region. .
(25) Ina ‘reply toa question from Mr. "ZHUKOV (Union  of Soviet Socialist Republics), the DIRECTOR-  GENERAL said that the list of non- governmental  organizations having consultative arrangements with  Unesco was normally reviewed every four years.  Under the existing regulations, those accepted for  consultative arrangements during the current session  would be reviewed in four years! time, If a decision  were deferred on the application of any organization,  it would, however, be able to apply again in two  years! time,  {26) Mr, de HOOG {Netherlands} thought it would be  better if the ‘General Conference, at its. tenth session,  réviewed the list’ of all organizations admitied'to ‘  consultative arrangements,” whether they had been  approved during the current session or at añ earlier  one, He pofnted out that any other method would  compel the General Conference to review the cases of  some organizations every two years. He therefore  proposed that the Administrative Commission recom-  mend that the General Conference adopt the procedure  he had suggested.
(27) Mr; von TRUTZSCHLER {Federal Republic of  Germany), referring to the point raised by the delegate  of the Netherlands concerning the review of.non-  governmental organizations having consultative.  arrangements with Unesco, expressed the opinion that  it would be. wrong to exclude the new organizations _  from the review which was to take place in two years!  timé, He suggested that the Commission should decide  that question before proceeding with its examination  of the new applications. -  cle date Lg e1 1 = a -
(28) Mr, BARBEY. (Switzerland) agreed with the ,  delegates of the Netherlands and the Federal Republic  ! of ‘Germany, .  I. 129) The proposal that he General Conference be  requested, at its tenth session, to review the list of
621     all organizations approved for consultative arrange -  ments, no matter when thay had been admited,’ was  then put to the vote.’
(30) The proposal was adopted by 38 votes to 0 with
1 ‘abstention. :  {31) At the proposal of Mr. SILLER R (Mexico), the  application of the Intér-American Association of  Broadcasters was then approved by 41 votes to 0,  with 4 abstentions,  Appendix 5 - International Association of Plastic Arts
(32) Mr, ORIBE (Uruguay) supported the Association's  application,  i.
(33) Mr. JOCHAMOWITZ (Peru) said there could be  no doubt in-the cañé concerned, as the Association  had been established by Unesco and should therefore  be admitted without discussion. .
(34) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL added that it was -  hoped that more countries would join the orgarization,  making it geographically more representative in  character.
(35) The Commission agreed, by 45 votes to 0, with
4 abstentions, to grant the International Association  of Plastic Arts consultative status.  Appendix 6 - International Association of Workers  for Maladjusted Children
(36) Replying to a question from, Mrs; HEFFELFINGER  (United States of America) » thé DIRECTOR-GENERAL  said that the membership of the organization was  rather restricted at the moment, being confined to  the countries of Europe, Canada and Morocco. Other  countries could join, It was for the Commission to  decide whethér or not it should be granted con-  sultative status.
(37) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) asked whether the associa-  tion was truly international’in character and whether  it had invited other countries to join it.
(38) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that all inter-  national organizations which were not purely regional  in character invited applications for membership from  all over the world. - Lo
(39) Mgr 'MARGUN (Lebanon) pointed ot that the  problems with which the ‘Asséclation was’ concerned  were not restricted to Europe but arose in every  part, of the world and were among those to which, in  his opinion; Unesco should devote careful attention,  He capote that there, were & torts of -  rt)  organizations had & Fai of action thai could be ©  described as interpational, many of them had not yet  had time to establish the national committees that  would be desirable in evéry country. They, should  be encouraged to do so on being admitted to Cet  consultative arrangements, On that understanding,   v-18 ‘ADMINISTRATIVE  he could see nothing hut advantage in approving the  application of the Association in question... - .-  Referring to paragraph 8 of Appendir 6, Mgr :  Mgyroun drew attention to the large number of contacts  that the Acsociation had succeeded in establishing  with other prganizations working in fields related to  its own. It was setting an example in that respect  which many other ôrganisations would do well to  follow, He also believed that Unesco would sooner  or later have to request all international non-govern-  mental organizations working in the same or neighbour-  ing fields to co-ordinate their efforts by establishing  councils similar to that in which the various scientific  unions were already grouped.
(40) Mr. de HOOG (Netherlands) whole-heartedly  agreed with the Lebanese delegate and warmly  supported the application of the International Associa-  tion of Workers for Maladjusted Children.
(41) Mr. CHEN (China) informed the ‘Commission -  that observers from many countries throughout the  world hac attended the last meeting of the Association.
(42) The Commission agreed, by 35.votes to 0, with
10 abstentions, to grant the International Association  of Workers for Maladjusted Children consultative  status.  Appendix 7 - International Astronautical Federation
(43) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) supported the  application of the above organization,
(44) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom), having drawn  attention to the provision in the Directives governing    'COMMIBSSION  the granting of. consultative status which iaid down .  that such statud should not be granted individually to  organizations grouped together in larger.  authorized to represent them,’ and having comménted -  that the objectives of the International Astronautical  Federaticn were, at the moment, rather remote from  those of Unesco, , suggested that the Commission”:  should recommend it to maintain relations with Unico  through the International Couneil of Scientific Unions,
(45) Mr, AVNON' (Israel) remarked that the Federation  had already applied to the International Council ot ;  Scientific Unions and the Union of International -  Engineering Organizations for membership, and its  applications had been rejected for the reasons set out  in paragraph 8 of Appendix 7. Space travel was of :  great interest to many Member States and, in his  opinion, Unesco should encourage research in that  field,  He seconded the proposal of the delegate of Spain  that the International Astronautical Federation be  granted consultative status.
(46) Replying to à request from Mr. MUNRO  (Australia) for the opinion of the Secretarial on the  Federation, the DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the  Department of Natural Sciences was not enthusiastic  about its admission to consultative status, as it was  not primarily engaged in scientific work,
(47) The Coinmission agreed, by 13 votes to 10,  with 21 abstentions, to grant the International  Astronautical Federation consultative status,  The meeting rose at 5 p.m,  NINETEENTH MEETING
26 November, 1956, at 10,30 a, m.  Chairman: Mr. SAVAIN (Haiti)  APPLICATIONS BY INTERNATIONAL NON-GOVERNMENTAL  ORGANIZATIONS FOR ADMISMON TO CONSULTA'ITE  ARRANGEMENTS (continued) (document 9C/ADM/11 and Addenda)  Appendix 8 - International Broadcasting Organization
(1) Mr, STEPANEK’ Cavchigalovakid), ‘after giving a  brief cutline of the aé evéments ‘and äims of the ‘  International Broadcusting Organization, remarked  that all ‘the arguments which‘had been: advanced.  in favour of granting’ consultative “status to’ another  similar regional organizhtion,' the" Inter “American  Association of Broadeasters, could equally “él!  be applied to it. He ‘supported its applica-  tion for admission to consultative arrangé-  ments. ‘
(2) Mrs. HEFFELFINGER (United States of America)  said that; if all the’ applications ‘Usted in document
9C/ADM/ 17 and Annex were considered iri the light  of the Diréctives governing the granting of con-  sultativg status, it would be cleärly seen that some  of the giganizätions” applying for such status would  not qualify ‘under the provisions of Section II; À, 1,  and, in thé opinion of tho Unitéd States delegation,  the Intéfnational Br géécastig Organization was one  of those which’ wou ‘not qualify,  ' Paragraphs 4 and 5 of thé Appendix showed an’ -  apparent discrepancy, paragraph 4 saying that seats  on the Governing Body were allotted to France, the  - United Kingdom and the United States of America,  while paragraph 5 did not include organizations froin  those three countries in the list of members, The ,  fact was that no broédéasting organization from those  three countries was a member, There was no doubt