12 November 1956, at 10,30 a, m,  Chairman: Mr, MATSUI (Japan)
(1) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) made a few comments  on the Committee's proposed agenda.  The first item, concerning reports on the action  taken to give effect to conventions and recommenda-  tions adopted by international conferences convened  under Unesco's auspices, arose out of the work of the  Committee on Reports of Member States. That Com-  mittee, which wes required to submit its report to the  Conference in the near future, had drawn the attention  of the Legal Committee to the urgent need for aettling  the question.  The second item; relating to the draft amendments  to the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference,  had already been partially discussed by the Legal  Committee.  ‘The third, relating to document ‘9c/DR/4, would be  considered at a later meeting; it concerned the inclu-  sion in the final agenda of the General Conference of  a proposal submitted by the Greek Government.  Another item had been included in the agenda at the  suggestion of the Administrative Commission; the  Legal Committee would. have to consider whether a  two-thirds majority might be required for the suspen-  sion of the Financial Regulations, sinçe there was no  provision on that point ‘in Unesco's Constitution, which  in fact gave a presumably exhaustive list of the cases  in which such a majority was required. The Legol  Committee was asked to determine how the Constitu-  tion should be interpreted in that respect, and to say  whether the relevant rules required revision.  REPORTS ON THE ACTION TAKEN TO GIVE EF/ECT TO  CONVENTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ADOPTED BY  INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCES CONVENEN UNDER  UNESCO'S AUSPICES (document 9C/REP/PROV/1)
(2) Mr. SABA {Legal Adviser) read out à letter from  the Chairman of the Committee ‘in Reports of Member  States to the Chairman of the Légal Committee, asking  for the Committee's advice on the following question:  "The Constitution and the Rulés of Procedure con-  cerning recommendations fo Member States and inter-  national conventions covered by ‘the terms of Article  IV, paragraph 4, of the. Constitution ‘stipulate that  Member States shail submit periodical reports on the  action they have taken to give effect to conventions  and recommendations adopted by the General Confe-  rence. In what manner and to what extent may the  General Conference request Member States to submitre-  ports on the action they have taken to give effect to con-  ventions or récommendations adopted by special interna-  tional conferences convened under Unes cd's auspices in  pursuance of a resolution of the Genéral Conference?"  The Legal Adviser then drew the Committee's atten-  tion to document 9C/REP/PROV/1, containing a note  on the matter.
(3) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur of the.  Committee on Reports of Member States) said that the  Director-General had referred to his Committee the  question of the form in which future reports were to be  cast and of the inclusion in those reports of informa-  tion about the action taken by Member States to give  effect to international conventions sponsored by Unesco,  When discussing the latter point, the Commitiee  had found that conventions were of two kinds: (1)  those formulated by the Organization and adopted by  the General Conference; and (2) those drawn up on  Unesco's initiative and adopted by a conference  apecially convened for the purpose, such as the Copy-  right Convention and the ‘Convention for. the Protection  of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict.  The implementation of such conventions was not within  Unesco's jurisdiction, and under the Constitution  Member States had no precise constitutional obligation  in that respect. The Committee on Reports of Mem-  ber Statea considered that such a situation was para-  doxical and wished the General Conference to be  informed as to the application of those conventions,  which were among the most important formulated under  Unesco's auspices, A legal problem was involved and  the Committee wished to have the opinion of the Legal  Committee on the possibility of inviting Member States  to provide such information.
(4) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) recalled that, when  Unesco was established, ‘it had been given regulatory  functions, defined in Article IV of the Constitution,  besides its important responsibilities in connexion with  the execution of its programme. The General Con-  ference could adopt international conventions or recom-  mendations to Member States; such ‘instruments were  not binding on Member States, but, under the Consti-  tution, the latter were under an obligation to submit  them to the legislative authorities of their countries,  which then decided whether or not to accept them; they  were also réquired'to report periodically to the General  Conference on the action they had taken to give effect  to conventions or recommendations adopted by the  General Conference; the provisions of the Constitution  had been amplified in 1950 by detailed Rules of Pro-  cedure stating expressly that, in addition to their  general reports, Member States should submit special  reports on recommendations or conventiuns adopted  by the General Conference.  However, it soon becamé clear that the General Con-  ference had not the time to draw up important conven-  tions itself; nor was it equipped to undertake the  studies required. When the Conventions on Copyright  ard on the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event  of Armed Conflict had to be drawn up, special inter -  governmental conferènces, quite independent of the  General Conference, had to be convened for the pur-  pose. The provisions of the Constitution, as they stood,   VII-$  did not strictly apply to the situation resulting from:  that practice, which was unfortunate, as the conven-  tions adopted independently of the General Conference  in fact reflected definite concerns of the Organisation  and marked the culmination of an important part of  its activities, Mr. Saba then pointed out that, under  Article VIII of the Constitution, Member States were  obliged to report on laws and regulations passed for  the implementation of a convention adopted under  Unesco's auspices, but that obligation could obviously  not be extended to States that had not become parties  to a convention and had thérefore passed no laws or  regulations for its application. Mr, Saba explained  ways of dealing with that situation, In the first place,  if the Conference thought it necessary to have infor-  mation from States concerning the two categories of  conventions, it could always ainend the Constitution.  Another method, which would be simpler and quite as  acceptable from the legal standpoint, would be to adopt  a resolution inviting Member States to prepare reports  on conventions in the second category; the resolution  would indicate that States should reply in a form deter-  mined by the General Conference, which would pos-  sibly neceasitate the preparation of a questionnaire by  the Secretariat for approval either by the Executive  Board or by the Conference itself. However, a reso-  lution of the General Conference did not bind Member  States in the same way as the text of the Constitution.  A third method would be to adopt Rules of Procedure  for the purpose but, there again, the obligation would  not be as binding as if the Constitution itself were  amended,  Mr. Saba stated that the conventions already in  force that had been adopted by special conferences  were the Universal Copyright Convention, and the  Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in  the Event of Armed Conflict; the category might also  be considered to include those that had led to the  establishment of an International Computation Centre  and the Furopean Organization for Nuclear Research  (CERN), although their range was more limited and  the latter was of regional interest.
(5) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) did not believe it was for the Legal Committee  to express an opinion on whether or not Member  States should report on the implementation of conven-  tions that had not been adopted by the General Con-  ference but had been prepared by a special Conference  convened under the auspices of Unesco. It wae clear  that Member States were under no legal or consti-  tutional obligation to report on such conventions, and  he did not think that the Legal Committee could do  more than draw attention to that situation and indicat:  how it could be remedied. ‘In his view, only two  courses of action were possible: (a) the amendment’  of the relevant Article of the Constitution - for which  the statutory périod of notice would have to be given  to Member States, and which, therefore, could not be  undertaken before the tenth session; or (b) the sdop-  tion of a resolution by the General Conference ex-  pressiy inviting Member States to report on the imple-  mentation of those conventions. Such a resolution  would not, of course, be legally binding, and Member  States would be free to respond or not as they wished.
(6) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed with the
686  LEGAL COMMITTEE  Soviet delegate, who had set forth the problem with  great clarity and precision, As be understood it, the  difficulty was to find some method by which Unesco  would be kept informed of steps taken to implement  conventions that had been drafted by an inter government!  Conference convened under Unesco's auspices. He  pointed out, however, that certain conventions, such  as the Universal Copyright Convention, included provi-  sion for the reporting of measures taken in implemen-  tation thereof, In such cases, therefore, it would be  necessary to discover how Unesco was concerned with  the implementation machinery, and the situation might  be more complicated than appeared from the report of  the Committee on Reports of Member States. He  wondered if the Legal Adviser could inform the Com-  mittee how the International Labour Organisation  handled conventions prepared by outside bodies but  which had a bearing on the Organization's work and  activities, as, for instance, the International Conven-  tion for the Safety of Life at Sea.
(7) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) acknowledged that, as  had been stated by the delegate of the Soviet Union,  Member States were not expressly required, under the  terms of the Constitution, to transmit to the General  Conference information concerning conventions adopted  by bodies other than the General Conference, but  he pointed out that they were under an obligaticn to  report on any changes in their law in fields the { were  of interest to Unesco; such changes in law mijht have  been introduced as & result of the ratification cf coa-  ventions relating to matters of interest to Unesco  adopted by special conferences convened by the Orga-  nization. The Report of the Legal Committee should  refer to that aspect of the question.  With reference to the question raised by the delegate  of the United Kingdom, Mr, Saba stated that, so far as  he knew, the International Labour Organisation offered  no precedents ¢f value to Unesco, for all the conven-  tions or recommendations formulated at its instance  were drawn up and adopted by the International Labour  Conference itself; the Conference met every year,  and its agenia consisted essentially of the study or  adoption of such instruments. On the other hand, the  Legal Adviser pointed out to the delegate of the United  Kingdom that the Berne Union played no part in the  application of the Universal Copyright Convention;  under thé terms of the Convention, an Intergovernmental  Committee had been constituted to supervise its appli-  cation. Furthermore, if given conventions included  provisions stipulating methods of application and special  obligations in regard to the information to be furnished  by the parties to the convention, those provisions were  binding only on such States as were parties. It would  no doubt be of great interest to the General Conference  to know the position taken up on the matter in question  by other Member States. oo  The Legal Adviser thought it incumbent upon him to  draw the Committée's attention to arother aspect of the  question. Under the Conatitution, sny amendment to  the Constitution that entailed new obligations for Mem-  ber States had subsequently to be ‘accepted by two-  thirds of the Member States. If jt were decided to  amend the Constitution, the Committee would probably  have to decide whether an ameniment involving an  obligation to report on conventions which had not been  adopted by the General Conference came into the category   LEGAL COMMITTEE via-3  of amendments requiring subsequent acceptance by  two-thirds of the Member States,
(8) Mr, SIMSARIAN (United States of America) agreed  that there was a clear distinction between the two  categories of conventions, those adopted by the  General Conference being expressly covered by the  provisions of Article VIII of the Constitution, The  Committee on Reports of Member States should be  {informed that it was at liberty to determine the manner  in which the réports on those conventions should be  submitted, there being no legal objection to any of  the methods auggested in the Committee's report. 50  far as reports on conventions prepared by inter-  governmental conferences meeting under Unesco's  auspices were concerned, the Soviet delegate had al-  ready indicated the two methods by which the situation  might be handled. He ht that the Legal Com-  mittee should inform the Committee on Reports of  Member States that it could recommend the General  Conference to pasa a resolution calling on Member  States to report on those conventions, That resolution  would obviously not carry any constitutional obligation  and Member States would report only if they so  desired. The Committee on Reports of Member States  was the competent body to recommend in what manner,  and at what dates, those reports should be presented.  {9) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) pointed out that the  Committee on Reports of Member States was not con-  sulting the Lega} Committee on the question of re-  ports on recommendations or conventions adopted by  the General-€ouriference, and that there were, in any  case, special regulations on the matter.
(10) The CHAIRMAN thought the situation might be  summed up as follows: from the Legal Committee's  point of view, there was no explicit constitutional  obligation for Member States to report on conventions  and recommendations that had not been adopted by the  General Conference; it was for the Committee on  Reports of Member States to decide on the desirability  of inviting them to report on that point.
(11) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) stressed ‘that the  final decision rested with the General Conference,  which considered every aspect of the question. But he  felt that, from the legal point of view, the Committee  could put forward certain considerations on the advisa-  bility of the Organization's collecting information on  the steps taken by Member States in regard to inter-  national conventions adopted under its auspices, and  could determine whether such information would be  useful to the Organization. The Legal Adviser would  not wish the Committee to neglect the study of that  aspect of the question. In the course of the discus-  sion, delegates did not seem to have rejected the  possibility of adopting a resolution to enable the Orga-  nization to remedy a situation which hadinfact arisen out  of circumstances that had not been foreseen when the  Constitution was first drafted. Originally, it had  presumably been supposed that the General Conference  itself would adopt all the international conventions  coming within Unesco's purview.
(12) Mr. GOLUNSKY {Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) was against the inclusion of such considerations
6817     . in the Legal Commities's report. His view was that a  great variety of conventions might bé concluded indepen-  dently of thé General Conference and that it was difficult  to know whether or not it would be appropriate to ask  Member fitates for réporis oh the action taken thereon.  He thougnt that the Legal Committee should confine  itaelf t¢ emphasizing two points: (1) the Constitution  imposed on Member States ho express obligation in  conne’don with the submission of re on such con-  ventiyn; (2) such an obligation could be introduced only  by a4 amerdment to Article IV of the Constitution, The  Coratitution could not be amended at the current ses-  sicn, but the Conference was at liberty to adopt a reso-  luiion on the point. The delegate of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics also thought that the Legal Com-  nittee might make a recommendation, if the Committee  on Reports of Member States so desired, but such a  recommendation would not be binding on Member States.
(13) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America) pointed  out that that question was discussed in paragraph 17 of the  report of the Committee on Reports of Member States  (document 9C/REP/PROV/1), with the terms of which  he agreed. It was obviously essential that Unesco  should be kept informed of the action taken by Member  States to implement a convention under which the Orga-  nization was performing certain functions, and the  General Conference might well adopt a resolution to  that end, The manner in which the required informa-  tion was to be supplied, however, was beyond the com-  petence of the Legal Committee, and was clearly a  matter for discussion by the Committee on Reports of  Member States.
(14) The CHAIRMAN did not, generally speaking,  think that the Committee should confine itself to ques-  tions of form, as the delegate of the Soviet Union con-  tended. In the case in point, however, he agreed with  him that the question of the desirability of inviting  Member States to submit reports should be referred to  the Committee on Reports of Member States.
(15) Mr. VAN PEURSEN (Netherlands) wondered  whether it would not be possible simply to state that a  new legal point had arisen and that conventions adopted  by conferences other than the General Conference  brought up the problem of the legal steps to be taken  in the light of the new situation.
(16) Mr, SABA (Légal Adviser) thought that the situa-  tion had arisen owing to the fact that the draftsmen  of the Constitution could not have known precisely how  Unesco would do its work and had presumably taken  ILO as a model, Experience had shown that it was  impossible for the General Conference itself to adopt  important international conventions in fields that were  nevertheless within its purview, oo ’  Mr, Saba stated that, in addition to the solution  already suggested, the convening of extraordinary  meetings of the General Conference might be contem-  plated whenever the question of the adoption of an inter-  national convention arose. Such a procedure would  probably entail amendments to the Conference's Rules  of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure concerning  recommendations to Member States and international  conventions, a question which would have to be gone  into later; but the Committee could indicate immediately   vii-3  in its report that the procedure was legally accept-  able, If that was the Committee's opinion, the  General Conference might invite the Director-General  to submit a report, with precise proposals, on the  question to the next session, and draft amendments  could be circulated to Member States within the  stipulated time-limits, .
(17) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), referring to the  extremely logical proposal made by the Legal Adviser,  pointed out that there would be certain technical  objections tp the adoption of a new convention by an  extraordinary session of the General Conference,  The convening of an extraordinary. session would re-  quire the invitation of all Member States of Unesco,  whereas not all of those States might be interested in  the subject matter of the Convention, It would there-  fore be more difficult to obtain the two-thirds majority  necessary for adoption of the convention. He there-  fore felt that the suggestion made by the delegates of  the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United  States of America, concerning the adoption of a resolu-  tion by the current seasion of the General Conference,  represented the only wise recommendation the Legal  Committee could make.  He wondered, however, to what extent a solution of  the problem was both urgent and necessary. He knew  that that was not a legal point but, from his own  experience of preparing the report of a Member State,  he knew that Member States were generally only too  anxious to include full information concerning their  action in any of the fields of Unesco's activity, which  made him wonder if it were really necessary to set up  special machinery to require them to report on the  conventions in question. He thought that the Com-  mittee on Reports of Member States should have made  it more apparent that the necessity for such action  really existed.
(18) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lice) entirely agreed with the Chairman that the Legal  Committee had the right to discuss questions of sub-  stance so far as might be indispensable for the solu-  tion of legal problems but, in the case in point, it was  not for the Committee to express an opinion on the  desirability of asking Member States for reports. If  it ingerted a recommendation on that point in ite re-  port it would apply generally, both to conventions  formulated in the future and to those that had already  been adopted. It was impossible, however, to fore-  see what future conventions would be like, and it  would be open to the General Conference to take appro-  priate measures whenever a new convention was  brought into force. The delegate of the Soviet Union  warned the Committee against hasty decisions, which  might, at a later date, give rise to further problems.
(19) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America) felt  that the Committee should not overlook the fact that,  in convening a Conference to prepare a particular  convention, Unesco obviously considered that the sub-  ject matter of the convention was of sufficient impor -  tance to Warrant action by the Organization. In that  event, the Organization should be in a position to  obtain adequate information on the implementation of  the convention, and the Committee should indicate in  its report that, legally and subatantively, there was
688     LEGAL COMMITTEE  sufficient justification to warrant the Organization's  receiving that information. It would then be for the  Committee on Reports of Member States to recom-  mend whatever steps it thought fit to see thet that was  done,
(20) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) shared that view,  which he felt was specifically contained, in the spirit  if not in the letter, in Article VIII of the Constitution,
(21) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) summarized the points  that should, in his view, be included in the Committee's  draft report; (1) Under the Constitution, there was no  legal obligation for Member States to furnish special  reports on action taken to give effect to conventions and  recommendations adopted by international authorities  other than the General Conference; (2) However,  where such conventions or recommendations had led  to the passing of laws or regulations by a Member  State, the obligation imposed by Article VIII of the Con-  stitution remained unimpaired; (3) The Committee  had recognized; (a) that it would be possible; by  amendment of the Constitution, to extend that obliga-  tion to conventions and recommendations adopted by  special conferences, but that, in that case, the con-  stitutional procedure would have to be followed, the  draft amendments being submitted to Member States  six months prior to the opening of a session of the  General Conference; -and (b) that such provisions, en-  tailing new obligations for Member States, would have  to be ratified by a two-thirds majority of the Member  States.
(22) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) thought there could be no doubt about the last  point.
(23) Mr. COWELL (United King fom) supported that  view, Referring to the second point raised by the  Legal Adviser, concerning the advisability of consi-  dering the amendment of the relevant Article of the  Constitution, he felt that any reference to such action’  in the Committee's report should be conditional upon  a case being made out to show that such a step was  really neceseary.
(24) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) stated that he had in-  tended to make that point clearer, He continued:
(4) The report would indicate that the Conference  could always adopt'a resolution inviting Member States  to report on conventions other than those approved ai,  one of its own ‘sessions.  The Legal Adviser thought that there were still two  points to clarify, on which the Committee had reached  no agreement: (1) Did the Committee wish to refer  to the probable discrepancy between the presume  intentions of the draftamen of the Constitution and the  practice that had gradually been established by the  General Conference, in the light of experience, with  regard to the adoption of international conventions?
(2) Did the Committee think it should suggest that the  Director-General be invited to draw up a report on  that aspect of the question and to include in it definite  solutions for consideration?
(25) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  thought it would be preferable not to ask for a further   LEGAL COMMITTEE  report on the matter, He felt that the question had  been discussed quite adequately and that a further re-  port to the ninth or to the tenth session was unneces-  sary. In any case, that suggestion should not be in-  cluded in the report of the Committee, since nothing  would prevent further discussion of the problem if  and when additional questions were raised,
(26) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) agreed with the delegate of the United States of  America, He added that, in his view, the Committee  was not called upon to make suppositions about the  intentions of the draftsmen who framed the Constitu-  tion, for it had no material on which to ‘judge them,  and members would in ‘all likelihood express very  different views on the point. As a legal body, the  Committee should keep to the text as It stood, and con-  fine itself to pointing out to the Conference the poasi-  bilities it might consider if it wishec to take measures  to remedy the situation.
(27) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) intended that that part  of the report should be framed in the conditional mood.  He felt it would be well to point out that a legal prob-  lem had arisen from the fact tha! the tempo of the  General Conference's work, and the short time allotted  for its sessions, made it very difficult for it to adopt  international conventions itself; and that Articles IV  and VII of the Constitution could therefore apply only  in a limited fashion.
(28) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed with the  Legal Adviser that it was viftually impossible to draft  an international convention during a session of th  General Conference. Expe. rience of the attempte made  during the sessions held iri'Beirut and in Florence had  shown that the results achieved were disappointing.  He thought it would be within the competence of the  Committee to recommerd that the provisions of any  international convention’ drafted by outside bod, ies  under Unesco's auspices should be brought to ‘the  attention of the General Conference at its session  following the adoption’ ‘of such a convention. - The  General Conference vould then have an opportunity of  urging Member States to take note thereof and to re-  port on steps taken to implement the provisions. He  found it difficult to imagine a situation where the adop-  tion of any convention in the fields of edvcation, science  or culture would not be brought to the attention of the  General Conference, which could then discuss the  machinery to be used for reporting thereon.
(29) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) stated it was in the  light of experience that the Conferente had given up  the practice of adopting important conventions itself.  The Legal Adviser asked the Committee to decide  whether it would confine itself to explaining the prob-  lem in its report, or whether it would ask for the  question to be studied by the Secretariat.
(30) Mr, GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) and Mr, PADOUX (France) felt that it was un-  necessary to suggest such a study,
(31) Mr, SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  agreed with the views expressed by the Legal Adviser  and drew attention to the fect that a resolution relating  to the Universal Copyright Convention was before the  ninth session of the General Conference.
(32) Mr, GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  Mes) thought the United Kirigdom delegate's comment  important, He had pointed out that when a new çon-  vention had come into force and information on that  point had reached the General Conference, the Con-  ference could adopt a resolution designed to obtain  reports from Member States, It was unwise, in Mr,  Golunsky's opinion, to lay down general rules that  would commit the future, Certain conventions might  be of regional application and interest only some  Member States, Appropriate measures should there-  fore be devised for each convention formulated, and  the Conference should be at liberty to determine the  nature of the information required in each case.
(33) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) pointed out that a  distinction should be drawn between conventions that  had already been adopted by conferences other than the  General Conference and those that might be drawn up  in the future. In the case of the former, did the  Committee wish to indicate in its report that it con-  sidered it desirable for the Conference to invite Mem-  ber States to submit reports?
(34) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) thought that the procedure for reporting should  be studied by the Committee on Reports of Member  States.
(35) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  thought that the Committee was agreed that the Genera  Conference was legally in a position to invite Member  States to report on the implementation of international  conventions that had been adopted by an intergovernme  conference convened under the auspices of Unesco,  The Committee algo appeared to be agreed that it was  entirely a matter for the Committee on Reports of  Member States to decide how and when such reports  should be presented, and on which international con-  ventions Member States should be asked to report,
(36) Other members having indicated their agreement  with that view, the Rapporteur was requested to draft  the report of the Committee accordingly.
(37) It was further agreed that the Committee would  state no preference for either of the solutions pro-  posed during the discussion.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.