X-3 COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES  States' participation in the various aspects of  Unesco's programme, -
(36) The CHAIRMAN thanked Mr, tip for his inter-  esting survey, and announced that further discussion  of the item would continue at the afternoon meeting.  The meeting rose at 12.20 p,m  FIFTH MEETING
1 November 1956, at 3,456 p.m,  Chairman:  ITEM 17.1 OF THE AGENDA: CONSIDERATION OF REPORTS  PRESENTED BY MEMBER STATES FOR THE YEARS 1954 AND
1933 AND OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL'S STUDY OF THOSE  REPORTS (continued) (documents 9C/ 4 and Annexes I, 11 snd LI)  Chapter 4 - Cultural Activities (continued)
4. Culture and International Understanding (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN proposed taking up the discussion  of section 4 ot Chapter 4 of document 9C/4 Annex III,  namely "Culture and International Understanding",  He suggested the Committee should finish its work on  the following Friday; its draft repori would be ready  on the Monday evening and could be discussed at the  Tuesday afternoon meeting.
(2) - Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  stressed the great interest shown by many nations in  the Eastern and Western cultures project. Reverting  to some of his earlier remarks, he said that he had  mentioned the translations of great works only as an  illustration of the problems facing Member States in  the execution of Unesco's programme, He questioned’  whether the Programme Commission could draw  heavily onithe Member States‘ reparts to find out  what it shoald recommend. In his opinion, before  in y major project, Unesco should find out  the extent of /jie interest and resources of the Member  States, and a/s0 how they thought the programme  should be img lemented. Unesco should also draw  some distip:tion between the wark done in co-  operation ‘with it and the educational, scientific and  cultural ‘evelopment carried out independently of the  Organization,  o 2 Mr, 'BRUNSVICK (France) remarked that the  same inadequacy was apparent in the section under  discussion, which dealt with international under-  standing, as in the section on internetional under -  standing and co-operation under the heading of  "Education". The main problem was therefore to  help Member States tô give some account in their  reports of their real activities in that field, For  instance, the questionnaires sent out to States could  be improved. But what was required above all was  to draw the General Conference's attention to the
724     Mr, ZIEGLER (Austria)  need for formulating programme resolutions in more  precise terms, as, especially in the case in point,  those resolutions were too brief and did not match  the activities actually being carried out in the  Member States.
(4) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Directar-  General) agreed with the delegate of the United States  of America in hoping that States, in their reports,  would make à distinction between activities that were  directly related to Unesco's programme and those  that were not, but he stressed that States should not,  in any case, omit an account of the second category  of activities, for that would be contrary to the terms  of Article VII of the Constitution.  In reply to Mr, Brunsvick, Mr, Maheu observed  that the brevity of the programme was made up for  by the detailed explanations contained in the work  plan which was sent to Member States in addition to  the text of the resolutions,
(5) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) did not think that the  details given in'the work plan were sufficient, for  they related only to the actual resolutions and  therefore could not fill in gaps in the programme.  Thus an uninstructed observer might believe, on  reading the programme resolutions on culture and  international understanding, that in that field Unesco  was interested only in Esperanto, tax exemptions  and the reproduction of works of art.
(6). The CHAIRMAN said that it could be seen from |  the reports of the Federal Republic of Germany and  of Austria that both thoss countries warmly supported  the East-West cultures project, He thought the  Committee should express its appreciation of the  importance of the project. Referring to paragraph
170 of the document, he suggested that the Committee  should urge other Member States to contribute to the  "Index Translationum",
(7) Mr, KIRPAL (Acting Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) explained that the summary of  the reports sometimes gave a false impression of  what had really been done by the Meinber States.  In point of fact, 48 States had reported on the  "Index Translationum'   COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES x-5
(8) Mr, PEIRIS (Ceylon) thought the Programme  Commission should stress the importance of such a  major projèct ia the one on East-West cultural  values, He suggested that countries should deal with  translationia of contemporary writers and that larger  funds might be allotted to them for that purpose.  Chapter 5 - Mass Communication
(9) Mr. GJESDAL (Director y Department of Mass  Communication) said his Department was happy to  note an increased contact with Member States aud  particularly with non- governmental organizations,  Those who had the tusk of enlightering their fellow  citizens had responded very satisfactorily to Unesco's  requests for more active support,. Experiments had  recently been made with new visual material; and’  the National Commissions! - help had been very -  encouraging and gratifying, -The 600,000 pièces of  press material sent in the last few months had been  tailored to meet the needs of the recipient countries.  The Department of Masa Communication was engaged  in new activities codsisting in the exchange of cultural  radio programmes for demonstration purposes. Out  of 27 countries; 13 had reactéd very favourably to  that new activity, Mr: Gjesdal drew attentiaxito a  project, launched the previous apring, to provide  better facilities for journalism. The project hud -  been endorsed by most professional bodies and à new  centre for advanced training in journaliém had been  created at Strasbourg with considerable help from  Unesco funds. :
(10) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) was 8 greatly interested  in the picture drawn by Mr, Gjesdal and was very  pleased with the prospects he had mentioned. ‘He  stressed, however, that Member States! reports  were confused and imprecise on that chaptér; and  sometimes indeed said nothing about very. important  projects such as the "World Week". There had, on  the other hand, been such remarkable efforts as those  of the United States National Commission described  in paragraph 174, It was important, thought.  Mr, Brunsyick; to draw attention to the fact that:  certain countries had drawn not only upon the  resources of the Department of Mass Communication,  but on those of the whole Organization, using exhi-  bitions, Unesco coupons, conferences and seminars,  news bulletins and articles. Something could be  learnt from that about the best means of spreading  information. For instance, a general exhibition on  Unesco might be made available to Member States so  that their National Commissions could use it as they  wished in conjunction with the other material offered  to them.
(11) Mr, McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  thought the Committee might take up some specitic  point, such as the question whether Member States’  reports gave an edequate reflection of their desires.  For instance, the reports made no mention of the .  "Courier" or the "Chronicle", both designed for the  use of Member States, whoae co-operation was needed  for their diffusion.
(12) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur)  congidered the last point referred to by the United
728     States delegate most important; it should bé mentioned  in the Cominittee's report.
(13) Mr; GJESDAL (Director; Department of Mais /  Communication) was undér the impression that the :  technical task of disseminating. information material  had been difficult to carry but, mainly owing to the  National Commissions’ lack of staff and other facili-  ties. The remedies he would suggest were: (1) a  closer association of professional information sources  with the Natiaial Commissions; and (2) an intensifi-  catida of contacts between United Nations Information  Offices and National Commissions, Most reports  emphasized the need for more information material.  With regard to the "Courier", Mr, Gjesdal pointed  out that, at the time of the Montevideo Conference,  its circulation was 50,000, of which 21,000 copies  were sold. Its current circulation was over 86,000,  with 70,000 copies sold. The "Chronicle was an  experiment launched the previous year. Because of  {ts nature, that publication would never catch up with  the "Courier', but the response to it had been  satisfactory.
(14) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) was surprised that  the reports made tio reference to the possibility,  mentioned by Mr. Gjesdal; of using the United .  Nations Information Offices to convey information to  National Commissions. Such a procedure would set  a problem, as the form in which the material should  be made available to National Commissions would  have to be studied - a study in which the Department  of Mass Corimunication would have to play a pilot  rôle. Too often such material was presented in 50  dull à form as to be of little use.
(15) Mr. GJESDAL (Director, Department: of Mass  Communication) said his Department would be very  glad to make such a study and was hoping for guidance  from the Conference in that respect. He thought the  National Commissions should have information  outlets of their own,
(16) The CHAIRMAN thought that visits by journalists  were very important for international understanding,  They should he encouraged by the provision of greater  travel facilities.  Chapter 6 - - Exchange of Persons
(17) Mr. CARTER (Chiet, Exchange of Persons’  Service) stressed that the foundation of his Service  was the exchange of information, ’ The December  issue of "Study Abroad" listed 178,000 international  fellowships - 20,000 more than the previous volume,  The Member States had done a remarkable job in  that field but they made no mention of it in their  reports. Over 300 fellowships were awarded every  year and the Member Statas participated in the -  programme by receiving the fellows. That complex  activity was seldom, if ever, mentioned in detail in  the reports. The exchange of persons in non-  academic or non-technical fields was mainly carried  out through non-governmental organisations and  therefore was not mentioned in the reports, The  National Commissions' reports contained only the  highlights of that activity; "Study Abroed",   Xx-5 COMMITTEE ON REPORTS  "Vacations Abroad" and "Travel Abroad" contained  the details.
(18) The CHAIRMAN had met many university  graduates who had expressed regret at discovering  the index of fellowships and scholarships tco late to  profit by the informaticn it contained. He felt the  need for recommending a better distribution of that  publication,
(19) Mr, PEIRIS (Ceylon) associated himself with  the Chairman's suggestion and hoped Asian countries  would figure more largely in the Exchange of Persons  programme,
(20) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) agreed with Mr,  Carter that, if the reports of Member States said  little, the publications of the Exchange of Persons  Service bore witness to the multifarious relations  and fruitful collaboration existing between the  countries. It should, however, be urged that the  reports should mention the results achieved and the  effects of such exchanges on international under-  standing and knowledge of the different cultures.
(21) Mr, McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  noted that Mr, Carter's statement was a striking  illustration of the inadequacy of the reports. In that  connexion, it might be well to ask Member States to  put bibliographies into the reports.
(22) Mr. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) said the distribution of "Study Abroad" was  the perennial problem of his Service, Its circulstion,  however, was increasing and Member States could do  a great deal with very few copies if they were avail-  able in universities, high schools, etc, He thought  "Trevel Abroad" should be found on the desks of every  Consulate; its circulation was not yet adequate.  Governments should be encouraged, in their own  interest, to evaluate the results of the Exchange of  Persons programme.
(23) Mr. UNAKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  asked Mr, Carter whether he had any information  about the way in which the services of people who had  been trained as specialists in a particular field were  made use of in their own countries.
(24) Mr. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) explained that Unesco had direct responsi-  bility for its fellows and their salaries during their  training abroad. The various governments had  undertaken to employ them, on completion of their  studies, in appropriate fields. So far the results had  been very encoursging.
(28) Mr. UNAKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) expressed satisfaction at Mr. Carter's  reply.
(26) The CHAIRMAN suggested that the chapter on  Technical Assistance should not be dealt with as it  would come up before the Programme Commission.   (27) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur)  nevertheless proposed that the general comment that
726  OF MEMBER STATES  it would be well for Member States' reports to  mention the results achieved should be included with  respect to that chapter in the Committee's report,
(28) The CHAIRMAN then proposed that the Commit-  tee discuss Section 111, "Activities of the National  Commissions and of other co-operating organizationd',
(29) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  Genoral) thought that Section III could more usefully  be discussed by the Programme Commission at the  same time as document 9C/PRG/21. The same  comment applied to Section IV, "Measures taken to  associate national groups in the work of Unesco"  since it related to one particular aspect of Section  III, He proposed that Mr. Guiton, the Acting  Director of the Department of Education, who had  been unable to attend the Committee's discussion on  the questions concerning his Department but who had  been informed of the discussion, should make certain  observations.  Chapter 1 - Education (continued)
(30) Mr. QUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education) stated that, like the members of the  Committee, he had been struck by the fact that  Member States did not always, in their reports, do  justice to their real activities, for their part in the  implementation of the Education programme had been  considerable in 1955 and even greater in 1956. The  following examples bore witness to it: (a) Extension  of the network of associated schools carrying out  experimental projects in international understanding;
31 States were taking part in that undertaking, which  had not begun until the end of 1954, but only 12 had  made any mention of it, (b) In the same field there  were, at the end of 1955, 26 "associated youth  enterprises", including 11 sponsored by member  governments, yet they were mentioned in only three  cases. (c) The revision of school textbooks initiated  by Unesco three years previously, and more parti-  cularly the study of div treatment of Asian countries  in Western text*ooks, has been crowned by increasing  success and aad given rise to a meeting at which 16  Member States had been represented; that meeting  was not mentioned here. Similarly, the reports  of the Arab States those of Latin America did not  do justice to the part they had taken in the activities  of the Fundamental Education Centres (ASFEC and  CREFAL).  Mr. Guiton thought that the Géderal Conference  might recommend Member States to present their  reports in the following manner: ‘1. General report  on the various aspects of educational development.
2, Report on any undertakings with a possible bearing  on Unesco's projects, especially those concerning  international understanding. 3. A separate account  of participation in international activities and  meetings or regional serninars.  It would also be well to encourage Member States  to mention certain special activities known to the  Secretariat but not appearing in the reports. The  Department of Education had recently had à case of  that sort with regard to the implementation of a  resolution calling for the establishment of educational  information centres in the various States.   COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER
(31) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) found Mr, Guiton's  suggestions véry interesting, but he thought that  special emphasis should be placed on the need for  reports to mention the results of the activities  described, He had been struck by the fact that no  Member State had referred to the benefit it had  derived from the part its nationals had taken in  expert committees; seminars or conferences, That  was possibly attributable to lack of contact between  those attending international meetings and the  National Commissicns of their respective countries,  and it might have unfortunste consequences, since it  was largeiy those experts who prepared Unesco's  programme, which later had to be carried out by the  : National Commissions.
(32) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United Statea of America)  thought the reporting system had been fairly  exhaustively examined. In his view, it might be time  to evaluate what remained to be done by the Committee.
(33) The CHAIRMAN thought the Committee might  dispose of Parts IH and IV, on pages 26 and 27 and    ESTATES  deal the next day with the remainder of the document  ,and the question of the Committee's report.
(34) Mr, MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) réminded rnémbers that he had proposed that  Sections II and IV should not be discussed by the  Committee, as they would have to be examined by the  Programme Commission at the same time as  document 9C/PRG/21; In his opinion, it would be  preferable for the Committee to meet again the  following morning to consider Annexes I and II to  document 9C/4, In the discussion of paragraphs 221  to 226 of Annex III, which raised the question of  reports on Unesco's standardizing action, the  Committee would probably wish to hear the views of  the Legal Adviser, The afternoon meeting could then  be devoted to discussing the future form of the  reports. The Rapporteur's report could be  distributed during the morning of the following  Tuesday and discussed by the Committee in the  afternoon,  The meeting rose at 5.50 p.m.  SIXTH MEETING
2 November 1956, at 10,30 a.m,  Chairman: Mr. ZIEGLER (Austria)
(1) The CHAIRMAN declared the meeting open and,  there being no quorum, announced that, in accordance  with the provisions of Rule 69 of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference, the meeting  would adjourn for ten minutes.  (The meeting adjourned for ten minutes.)  {2) There being still no quorum after that statutory  adjournment, the CHAIRMAN asked if all members  present would agree temporarily to waive paragraph
2 of Rule 69, as provided in paragraph 3 of that Rule,  Agreed,  ITEM 17.1 OF THE AGENDA: CONNDERATION OF REPORTS  PRESENTED BY MEMBER STATES FOR THE YEARS 1964 AND
1938 AND OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL'S STUDY OF THOSE  REPORTS (continued) (documents 9C/4 and Annexes 1, II and II)  Section C - Summary of Annexes 1 and Il
(3) Mr. LEE (United States of Americs) felt that  attention should be drawn to the fact that only 42  Member States had supplied information regarding  the most important changes in laws and regulations  affecting education, science and culture, and no more  P23 had answered the question concerning    TA  measures to facilitate the freé movement from  country to country of persons and educational,  scientific and cultural material, It should be noted  that no response had been received from a large  number of Member States.
(4) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director -  General) admitted that the number of replies was not  very high compared with the number of Member  States, but pointed out that the proportion was not  materially lower than in the case of the replies  concerning the execution of the programme. The  Committee should, he thought, state in its report  that the replies were interesting and revealed that  Unesco's ideas were making headway in the laws  and regulations of Member States. Unesco's action  was reflected indirectly in the section relating to  Annex I, and more directly in that relating to Amex  Il, Given the number of replies, that fact had a  limited significance, but it was none the less  encouraging.
(5) The CHAIRMAN agreed with the view of the  United States delegate, particularly as reference was  made in paragraph 214 of the document to the  provisions of Article VII of the Constitution, which  placed Member States under an obligation to supply  information on such matters to the Organization. He