13 November 1956, at 5.30 p.m.  President: Mrs. LEFAUCHEU X (France)  CONTENTS  Election of members of the Executive Board . . . . . . , 192  ELECTION oF MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD
(4) The PRESBENT {Translation from the French):  The business before the Conference is item 8: Flec-  tion of 13 members of the Fxecutive Board.  I call upon the Chairman of the Nominations Com-  mittee to present his report,
(2) Mr. MALLEA (Argentina), ‘Chairman’ of ‘the  Nominations ‘Comniittee) (Translation from the”  Spanish): Madam President, I have the honour to in-  form the General (lonference that the Nominations  Committee conside red this aftepngon, at its second  POO  Section A; paragraph 2, of the Constitution, < concern-  ing the diversity of cultures and a balanced geograph-  ical distribution,: various delegates made statements  which will be summarized in the minutes of the  meeting, .  Certain delegations withdrew, in favour of ‘ther  candidates belonging to the same region, the nomina-  tions which had been presented by their governments.  Argentina withdrew the name of Professor Vicente  Fatone, in favour of the candidates put forward by  El Salvador añd Venezuela; Czechoslovakia with-  drew, that of Mr, :F. Pazur, in favour of the Polish  candidate; Guatemala withdrew the name of Dr.  Adolfo Molina Orantes, in favour of the candidates  proposed by Fl Salvador and Venezuela; and Syria  withdrew that of Dr. Dawalibi, in favour of the can-  didate presentéd by Iraq: -  -. The names of .the candidates are ‘as follows: Dr.  Abdul Majid, Afghanistan; Dr: Gardner Davies,  Australia; Dr. Julien Joseph Kuypers, Belgium;  Professor Tha Hla, Union of Burma; Mr. Rodolfo  Baron Castro,” El Salvador; Dr, Maria Schiueter- -  Hermkes, Federal Republic of “Germany; Mr, Georges  Averoff, Greece; Dr, Zakir Husain, India; Dr. Abdul  Haniid Kadhim, Iraq H; E. Mr, Akira Matsul, Japan;  Mr; Ho Jik Kim, Korea; ir. Kesher Bahadur’ Khatri  Chhetri, Nepal; Dr, Momfasuddin Ahmed, Pakistan;  Dr. Concepcion Aguila; Philippines; H. E, Mr. Stefan  Wierblowski, Poland; Dr. Juan Estelrich y Artigues,
193     . Spain; Mr, Bhunthin Attagara, Thailand; Protéäsor  Bedrettin Tuncel, Turkey; H,E, Mr. Vladimir S$,  Kemenov, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; Dr.  Athelstan F, Spilhaus, United States of America;  H,E, Dr, C, Parra-Perez, Venezuela; and ;  Professor Nguyen-Quang-Trinh, Viet-Nam.  . "
(3) The PRÉSIDENT (Translation from the French]: |  I thank the Chairman of the Nominations’ Committee.  I think the assembly will want to proceed to the vote  forthwith, but I should first like to call upon the delé-  gate ot Argentina.
(4) Mr. CAILLET-BOIS (Ards tind) (Translation frm  the Spanish): The delegation of Argentina had agreed  to nominate one of {ts mémbers for eléction to the  Executive Board, It'did i 50 in order’ for, Argenttria to  be able to collaborate more closely, | ‘within Unesco,’  in pursuit of the Organization's ‘aims, and also ai thé  request of delegations which wished’ to record thelr,  recognition of Argeniina's right to membership of  Unesco's executive organ; and finally, bécause the *  fact of exercising a right, and even inore of assuming  a responsibility, is a powerful stimulus. |;  However, since Argentina's candidature might] have  interfered with those presented earlier by other Latin  American countries, our delegation wishes to give     .further proof of our American solidarity and of the ~  spirit which has always inspired Argentina's inter-  national action, This being so, and for the reasons  which I have explained, the Argentine delegation -  disregarding any calculation of probabilities - hss  unanimously decided to withdraw its candidature for,  the Executive Board,
(5) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French}!  I call upon the Secretary of the Conference, who will  recall to us briefly certain features of the voting pro-  cedure,
(8) Mr. MONTAGNIER Secretary of the Cônteréhce)  (Translation from the French): - Madam Presidént,  gentlemen, the elections to the Executive Board will  be carried out in accordance with the Rules for the  Conduct of Flections by Secret Ballot as contained   PLENARY MEETINGS  in the Conference Manual, The ; ‘President will first  ” all appoint two tellers from among the delegates  present,
(7) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French)t  Mr, Joubert, of the delegation of Laos, and Mr, Kjems,)  of the delegation of Denmark, would you kindly act as  tellers ?  {y Mr, MONTAGNIER (Secretary of the Conference)  (Translation from the French); The Secretariat has  had ballot papers and envelopes distributed to the  delegations, In accordance with Rule 13 of the Rules  for the Conduct of Flections by Secret Ballot, the  following are considered invalids...
1, Ballot papers on which there are more names  than there are persons to be elected;
2, Ballot papers in which the voters have revealed  their identity, in particular by apposing their signature  or mentioning the name of the Member State they  represent;  $. ‘Ballot papers on which the name of any candidate  appears’ inore than once; .
4, Ballot papers on which there are ewer names  than there are persons to be elected.. -:  - Consequently, delegations are asked to insert on.  the ballot pajer 13 names out of the list of.22 names  submitted by the Chairman of the Nominations Com:  mittee, :It‘Is essential to insert on the ballot papers  the names cf the candidates, and optional to insert on  them the nimes of the candidates! delegations. Under  Rule 12 of the relevant Rules; blank ballot papers,  that is to nay those on which no names are written,  ‘re consilered to be abstentions.  ® The. PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Xno none wishes to speak, I declare the, ballot open.
(10) - Mi. MON TAGNIER (Secretary of the Conference)  (Translation from the French); Delegations’ will be  called in turn, in French alphabetical order of the .  rave; of Member States, beginning with Yugoslavia.  Ath} conclusion of the calling of delegations, there  will be à further call for. all delegations which have  wot foted. Delegations will hand their ballot paper,  in the envelope , to the teller, who will place it in  the ballot box.  ; “(The vote was taken by secret ballot.)
193     »- Here are the’ results of the ballot,
(11) The PRESIDENT. (Translation from the French):  “Number of votes  cast; 69, Spoilt papers; $, Valid votes; 66, Majority  required: 34, The following are the names of the  : candidates and the number of votes secured by each:  Dry. Athelstan Spilhaus (United States of America):
84 votes} Dr; Zakir Husaln (India); 63 votes; Dr, Juan  Estelrich y Artigues (Spain); 60 votes; H,E, Dr, C,  Parra-Perez (Venezuela); 59 votes; H,E, Mr, Akira  Matsui (Japan): 58 votes; Dr, Maria Schlueter-.  Hermkes (Federal Republic of Germany); 67 ‘votes;  Mr, Rodolfo Baron Castro (El Salvador): 45 votes;  H,E. Mr. Vladimir S, Kemeriov (Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics); 44 votes; Dr, Gardner Davies  (Australia); “43 yotési.Mr,; Julien Joseph Kuypers  (Belgium): 43 votes; Dr, Momtazuddin Ahmed (Pakis-  tan): 37 votes; Dr, Abdul Majid (Afghaniotan)s 33 votes;  Mr. Georges Averotf (Greece): 32 votes; Professor  Bedrettin Tuncel (Turkey): 32 votes; H,E, Mr,  Stefan Wierblowski (Poland): 31 votes; Dr, Abdul  Hamid Kadhim (Iraq): 30 votens Dr, Concepcion  Aguila (Philippines); 28 votés; Professor Nguyen- .  Quang-Trinh (Viet-Nani):" A votes] Professor Tha  Hla (Union of Burina)i 26 votes; Mr: Bhünthin.. is,  Attagara (Thailand); 20 Yotés} Dr K;B,K; Chhetri  (Nepal): 15 votes;:Mr, Ho Jik Kim (Koréà):"11 votes,  We now have to have an additional ballot, tri accor-  dance’ with Rule 89 of thie Rules of Procedure of the -  General Conference, for the two places remaining to  be filled. The candidates will be Messrs, Majid,  Averoff, Tuncel, and Wierblowski,  We can either proceed immediatély to the second  ballot, ‘or else postpone this éomplémentary eleétion  until a meeting that will take place at 9.30 à, ni: to-  morrow. ‘Those in favour of completing the election  now, pleas raise their hands.’ Those in favour of  voting at a meeting that will take place at 9.30 to-  morrow morning; please raise their hands, ‘  The majority is in favour of a plenary meeting to-  morrow at 9.30 a.m, for the second ballot. The  meeting of the General Committee which was sche-  duled for 8, 30 tomorrow morning will therofore not  take place,  The meeting rose at 8.15 p.m,