4 December 1956, at 3, 80 p.m,  . Présidonts Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan)  {  CONTENTS  Election; on the report vof the Nominations Committee, of  members of the. Headquarters Committee, - of the Legal  Committee, and of the Committee on Reports, for the  tenth session of the General Conference ... . . . . . . 236  Address by the Minister of Hungary . . . . . . . . 237  Address by the Prime Minister of Nepal . . . . . . à i 237  ELECTION, ON THE REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE,  OF MEMBERS OF TRE HEADQUARTERS COMMITTEE, OF THE .  LEGAL COMMITTEE, AND OF THE COMMITTEE ON REPORTS, FOR  THE TENTH SESSION OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE.
(1) The PRESIDENT: I call upon the Chairman oi the  Nominations Committee to present his Report.
(2) Mr. MALLEA tArgentina) (Chairman of the Nomina-  tions Committee). (Translation from the Spa ish): Mr.  President and fellow délegates/-the Nominations Com-  mittee met yesterday afternoon to discuss nominations  for membership of the. Legal Comyinittee and the Com-  mittee on Réports for the ‘tenth session of the General  Conference. It also discussed the implementation of  the Administrative Commission's’ recommendation  thi thé number ot members of.the Headquarters Com-  mittée be raised to is, to ensure more equitable geo-  graphical’ representation. a .  As,owing tà official duties, I was, to my ‘great régret,  uñable to be- ‘present, the Chair. was taken “at this rmiest-  ing by Mg: “Brdckington;: the! delegate of Canada. There  - was à brief didcussion on the possibility of raising the  membérshif' of | thé Héadquartérs Committee 6 20; but  the Nominations Committee agreed that the matter lay  outside its field of competence and that it sbould be  left to the General Conference to decide at a plenary  meeting.”  - As’ stated in décurent 9C/27, which has been dis-  tributed to: delegates, the Nominations Committee  therefore recommends to the General Conference that  the following countr fes be elected to serve ori the three  Committees:  Headquarters Committee; - Australis, Argéntina,  Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Greece,  India, Italy, Japan, Lebanon, Mor scco, Pakistan,  Spain, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United  Kingdom, United States of America and Venezuela.  ‘Legal Committee; Afghanistan, Union of Burma,  Chile, Cuba, Egypt, France, Federal Republic of  Germany, India, Mexico, Poland, Tunisia, Union of
236  Er 4  Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom, United  States of America and Viet-Nam. ‘4  Committee on Reports: Australia, Colombia, France,  Haiti, India, Israel; Italy, Japan, Laos, Lebanon, »!  Liberia, Philippines, Rumania, Switzerland, Turkey,  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, ' United Kingdom, -  United States of America and Uruguay.
(3) Thé PRESIDENT; I thank the Chatrman of the -  Nominations Comuriiittee for his Report.
1 will take the nominations Committee by Committee.  The first is the’ Headquarters Committee. Does it  meet with your approval ?- No comments ?  I call upon the delegate of Greece,
4) Mé. AVEROFF (Greece) (Translation trom the: i  French): Mr. President, fellow delegates,’ I learnt * ,  yesterday “evening; ‘to my. great. astonishment, that  there had been a misunderstanding between the delégate  of Peru and myself; "Mr, ‘Jochamowitz, who honours  me with his friendship, came’ up during. the niceting of  the Admiviatr ative ‘Commission’ and inürmurëd’ in my  ear an ofier to nominate mie for I ¢mbership of a LL  committee - ! understood him to'sa y the’ Committee ri x  ‘I told him, ‘without stopping to think, :  that I wes on "éfio, mmittees ‘already aid had no  desire for nomination; + It nevér’décurréd to me that  he was spéakifig 'of the Headquarters Committee,” of."  which Greege:is already,’ ‘and wishes to remain,” a”  member, It was ‘owing to this misunderstanding hid +  the delegate ‘of Peru annountcéd’ that Greece was resign:  ing from the Headquarters Committee, and asked to be  given thé vacant seat. - I must therefore ‘make it'éléér,  Mr; President, that Greece’ has’ no ‘Intention of resp  ing from the Headqupriers. Committee. : But before |  concluding, 1 would like to make the ‘following sugges-  tion; in order not to lose the co- operation of a colleagu  so competent and distinguished as the delegate of Peru,  I propose, as several members of the Nominations  Committee seemed to wish yesterday evening, that  the number of seats on this Committee be increased          on Reports:      PLENARY MEETINGS 1-31  from nineteen to twenty, This would give us the  bénefit of one more opinion, and an pinion which  chrries weight. ©  : A  , 5) The PRESIDENT: ‘ A proposal has been made to  raise the membership from 19 to 230, Is this accep-  table? . It is supported, No comments ?  The proposal is approved, -  There is an-implied proposal for.the nomination of  Peru to this Committee, Does the Conference accept  this proposal ? It is supported. No comments ?  This proposal is adopted, ES '  Legal Committee, You have heard the nominations  for the Legal Committee, Do the nominations meet  with your approval ? Any comments? Adopted,  You have heard the nominations for the Committee  on Reports. Do these nominations meet with your  approval 7 I take it from your silence that you approve  of these nominations ? Approved.  I now call upon His Excellency, Mr. Aladar Tamas,  the Minister of Hungary.  ADDRESS BY THE MINISTER OF HUNGARY  - (6) Mr, TAMAS (Hungary) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the  * Government of the Hungarian People's Republic thanks  Unesco for its offer to help our country, in its difficult  situation,’ in the rebuilding of seriously damaged  schools. ‘This fine gesture, which will make a great  contribution to the resumption of the education and  training of the younger generation of Hungarians, is  worthy of an Orgunization which is playing a really  important part in the development of culture and in-  ternational friendship. The events which occurred  at the end of October have caused a shortage of trans-  port and certain technical difficulties, owing to which  it proved impossible for the Hungarian Government to  send a delegation to this session of the General Con-  ference, For this reason, the Hungarian Government  feels it necessary to confirm its intention of abiding  by the principles and objectives laid down in the Con-  stitution of Unesco, and its desire of continuing, on  the basis of those same principles and objectives, to  develop the part it plays in the work of the Organiza-  tion, The Hungarian Government attaches great im-  portance to the development of its co-operation with  Unesco and with all the Organization's Member States.  It sees considerable value in participating in the ex-  change fellowship programme sponsored by. Unesco  and in the international exchange of publications which  Unesco has initiated. - We should also like, in future,  to have the benefit of the exhibitions organized by  Unesco, which have hitherto been very succesaful,  The Hungarian Government asks Unesco, and the  governments of Member States; and National Com-  missions, to continue the invaluable support they  have so far provided for the Hungarian Government  and fhe Hungarian National Commission for Unesco.  The Hungarian Government hopes to be able to take an  active share in the work of this international Organi-  tation, which can do so much to serve the cause of  peace, international understanding and friendship,  and world culture,
(7) The PRESIDENT: I thank His Excellency,  aT     Mr. Tamas, for the generous sentiments he has :  expressed. FEN PIES FEN A STE RF FATA  - Fellow delegates, it is my proud privilege 10 wel-  comeé today, or behalf of the General Conference of  Unesto,. à distinguished citizen of Nepal, iis illus-:  trious Prime Minister: His visit is indeed a great  honour, but there is a special significance which we  ‘deeply appreciate; ‘his visit is & growing fecognition  by the statesmen of the world that Unesco has an im-  portant role to play in the preservation of peace by.  the promotion of understanding and gopdwill among  the nations. I sincerely hope that such visits by  distinguished statesmen will become more frequent,  so that Unesco may be able to forge ahead with  greater speed and effectiveness,  I will now request the distinguished Prime Minister  to address the Conference.  ADDRESS BY THE PRIME MINISTER OF NEPAL
(8) Mr, Tanka Prasa ACHARYA (Prime Minister of  Nepal): Mr, President, distinguished delegates, it  is indeed a great privilege for me to be here this  afternoon to speak a few words in this august assembly,  I most cordially thank the Director-General and the  members of the Faecutive Board for giving me this  privilege, Thanks are no less due to the Indian Prime  Minister, whose kind invitation has made it possible  for me to be here at a time when this great body is  in session,  When ! am here amongst you all, discussing and  thinking about Unesco, the idea that comes upper-  most to my mind is that part of the Preamble to  Unesco's Constitution which says that "the wide dif-  fusion of culture, and the education of humanity for  justice and liberty and peace are indispensable to  the dignity of man and constitute a sacred duty which  all the nations must fulfil, in a spirit of mutual assis-  tance and concern”. The significance of this Preamble,  and its great importance for us all today, is all the  more emphasized by the fact that this world is torn  and ravaged by dissensions and conflicts, - ignorance  and poverty, for we have not been able, so far,  successfully to implement the task we have before  us,  So far, Unesco / nas engaged itself in the great task  of letting man know his great past and the cultural  inheritance that he possesses. : The very fact that  he belongs te the great family of human beings should  naturally entitle tim to the privilege of inheriting cul-  ture, in the widest sense of the term, flourishing in  any part cf the world at any time. ‘In fact, Unesco is  «ngagéd more in the exchange of culture to make man  realize what he really is and possesses by way of  culture. This is a great task; this is the way by  which man will ultimately cross the artificial, un-  natural boundaries and acquire for himself a better  understanding of his fellow citizens, and become a  citizen of the world. In the success or failure of  this lies whether or not there is going to be lasting  peace in the world,  It gives me great pleasure to know that this happy  family of Unesco is becoming larger and more world  wide in its representation. The addition of Tunisia,  Morocco and the Sudan has enhanced the univeraal  character of this Organization. The fact that the
1-31  biggest country of Asia; with a population sy 600, 000, 000, .  has not been able to find its pon place in this Father-  ing of natidhs’ gives : a rather unsçieutifié character to  the wording used. -: However; let'us hope that this. :  Orguinization;: plédged to devote itaglf td education, :  science and culture, will rise above peity political :  considérations ind make it ible to admit the :.c. i  People's Republic of China without delay; May. Unesco  rise above all those différences which divide man from  man, and may it see the day of perfect international  understanding and harmony in every sphere, and more  especially in the fields of education, science and -  culture,   * the cause of peace. »  FLENARY MEETINOS  +(9) The PRESIDENT; Ori behalf of the General Con<  ‘ference, I.would-like to offer to our. illustrious quest  our profound gratitude for his gracious message, |.  assuré him that we share his anxiety in a world torn  by strife; : we share his hope that the common heritage  of all‘the nations will unite to remove the prejudices  between nation and nation; and we share his prayer  that Unesco may help to remove differences between  different nations and that Unesco will help to advance  Once again, I thank you Sir. ..  The meeting rose at 4 p.m.