CHAPTER V  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  FIRST MEETING  . 6 November 1956, at 5.50 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. HALLSTEIN (Federal Republic of Germany)  ELECTION OF THE CHAIRMAN
(1) The Administrative Commission held a very brief  meeting for the sole purpose of electing its Chairman.
(2) The CHAIRMAN announced that the Nominations  Committee had proposed as tb.: Commission's  permanent Chairman, Dr. Gardner Davies of  Australia.
(3) The proposal of the Nominations Committee was  unanimously adopted by acclamation.  The meeting rose at 5.65 p.m.  SECOND MEETING
7 November 1956, at 10.30 a.m,  Chairman: Mr, DAVIES (Australia)
(1) Opening the meeting, the CHAIRMAN said how  much he appreciated the honour paid to his country in  asking him to be Chairman.  ELECTION OF THREE VICE-CHAIRMEN AND A RAPPORTEUR
(2) The CHAIRMAN, having discussed the matter  with various delegations, suggested the following  names: : :  First Vice-Chairman: Mr, Roger Savain (Haiti);  Second Vice-Chairman: Professor Nguyen-Quang-  Trinh {Viet-Nam);  Third Vice-Chairman:  (Rumania);  Rapporteur: Professor Jean Baugniet (Belgium).  Mr. Constantin Dinculesco
(3) The above proposals were adopted by acclamation.
(4) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the General Con-  ference had decided that morning to refer three urgent  matters forthwith to the Administrative Commission;  they were those appearing under items 14.2, 12.2  and 11,1 of the revised agenda. The Commission was
537  required to submit reports as soon as possible on each  of those items.  ITEM 14.2 OF THE AGENDA | DRAFT ANENDMENTS TO ARTICLE Y,  PARAGRAPHS 1 AND 13, OF THE CONSTITUTION OF UNESCO AND  TO RULES 95 AND 93A OF THE RULES OF PROCEDURE OF TUE  GENERAL CONFERENCE, PROPOSED BY FRANCE, JAPAN AND  IABERIA (documents 9C/ADM/21 and Addendum)
(5) The CHAIRMAN requested the Commission to con-  sider, first of all, the desirability of the principle of  the Constitutional amendments proposed, If the prin-  ciple were approved the texts would then be forwarded  to the Legal Committee to be put into proper form,  The Committee would report back to the Commission  and the latter would then submit the texts to the plenary  Conference for consideration, probably on Friday  morning, 9 November.
(6) Mr. MATSUI (Japan) commented on the proposed  amendment presented jointly by the Japanese and  French delegations (document 9C/ADM/21), ‘ The  reasons why the two delegations had asked that the   v-2 ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  membership of the Executive Board be raised from
22 to 24 were, firstly, the increase in the oumber of  Member States - which would reach 70 of 80 during  the current session - and, secondly, the increasingly  important part the Board was called upon to play in  the two years inter véring between sessions of the Con-  ference. It was indeéd most necessary that the  various geographical and cultural regions of the world  should be fairly represented on the Board, It should  be noted that certain regions, such as Europe, were  proportionately better represented than others, es-  pecially since the recent admission of new Member  States, As it would be regrettable to reduce the mam-  ber of countries of Western Europe represented on the  Board, on account of their great prestige and the diver-  sity of their cultures, the only possible solution was  to create new seats,
(7) Mr, ANSARY (Afghanistan) asked what had led the  Conference to fix the mumber of members of the Board  at 22. Secondly, he wondered whether, in the event of  a further increase in the umber of Member States,  the desirability of again enlarging the membership of  the Executive Board would be considered.
(8) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director- General)  replied that the General Conference, at ite eighth  session, had decided to increase the membership of  the Board from 20 to 22 at the proposal of Australia,  Brazil, the United Kingdom and the United States of  America. Mr, Ansary's second question could be  answered indirectly by expressing the Board's mem-  berhsip as a ratio of the total membership of the Orga-  nization. For instance, from 1946 to 1951, the Board's  membership had been 18, while’ the mimber of Mem-  ber States had risen from 30 to 58; the ratio had there-  fore fallen from 60 per cent in 1946 to 30 per cent in
1951, From 1952 to 1954, there had been 20 members  of the and the number of Member States had  risen from 58 to 69; the ratio had thus fallen from 35  per cent to t 30 per cent. From 1954 to 1956, the  membership of the Board had been 22, while the total  number of Member States had risen from 69 to 77.  The ratio had thus fallen from 32 per cent to 29 per  cent.
(9) Mr. MOURA BRASIL (Brasil) announced that  Brazil supported the Franco-Japanese proposal,
(10) Mr, RAADI (Iran) appreciiyed the interest dis-  played by France and Japan in achieving equitable geo-  graphical distribution within the Board, out he wished  to repeat, on his own account, the question asked by  the delegate of Afghanistan. He hoped that the Secre-  tariat would supply information, if possible, shoul the  practice followed on that point by other Spécialized  Agencies, and about the proportion of Meu.ber States  represented on their governing bodies. He proposed  to speak again on the substance of the question when  that information had been supplied.
(11) In reply to Mr. Raadi, Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assis-  tant Director-General) statad that he would give the  information requested and aixo the financial tmplica-  tions of the joint proposal, The International Labour  Organisation had 77 Member States and a Governing  Board of 40 mambers, representing 20 Member States;
638     each Member State was represented by one worker  and one employer. The Food and Agriculture Orga-  nization had 74 Member States and a Council of 24  members. The World Health Organization had 88  Member States and its Executive Board consisted of
18 members. On the assumption, in Part I of docu-  ment 9C/5, that Unesco's Executive Board would  meet twice in 1957 and four times in 1958, the pro-  posal to increase the Board's membership from 22  to 24 would involve an additional cost of $13, 800,
(12) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) announced that hig  Government supported the Franco-Japanese croposal,  Explaining the disparity between representation on  the Executive Board of WHO and its total membership  of 88 States, he pointed out that WHO functioned ona  regional basis, It held regional conferences which  were just as important as meetings of the World  Health Assembly, and there was thus no need for the  Executive Board to be a larger body.
(13) Mr. SAVAIN (Haiti) first thanked the members  of the Commission for the honour they had done his  country in electing him first Vice-Chairman. He  supported the Franco-Japanese proposal and the  Liberian proposal, since he thought that an increase  in the number of Member States called for an increase  in the number of them represented on the Board.
(14) Mr, BENDER (Netherlands) stated that his dele-  gation supported the Franco-Japanese proposal,  believing that there were more arguments in favour  of increasing the Board's membership than against.  The argument that the Board might become too large  and unmanageable was not considered convincing, as  the Board followed the method of delegating work to  sub-commissions and sub-committees.
(15) Mr. ATTAGARA (Thailand) announced that his  delegation, having carefully considered the 10 per  cent budgetary increase involved, believed that it was -  justified, and fully supported the Franco-Japanese  proposal.
(16) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Re-  publics) remarked that, according to the figures  given by Mr. Adiseshiah, the Executive Board was  becoming steadily less representative. As that was  certainly undesirable, he supported the Franco-  Japanese proposal.
(17) Mr. FAIREY (Canada) supported the joint pro-  posal of France and Japan, but suggested that the  membership of the Board be stabilized at 24. While  appreciating that a reasonable proportion between  membership of the Board and the total number of  Member States should exist, he saw no need for a  definite mathematical proportion.
(18) Mr, CAILLET- -BOIS (Argentina) supported the  amendment and thought advantage might be taken of  the opportunity to elect members whose countries had  never yet been represented on the Board.
(19) Mr. ANSARY (Afghanisten), supporting tho joint  proposal of France and Japan, disagreed with the  delegate of Canada that membership of the Board   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  should be limited to 24. On the contrary, he wes in  favour of fixing a delinite ratio of the total membership  of the Organization, so that any increase in the mum-  ber of Member States would automatically entail an  increase in the Board's membership,
(20) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) explained that, if the  proposal of the delegate of Afghanistan were intended  as an amendment to the Franco-Japanese draft amend-  ment, it could not be accepted, as any proposal of that  kind had to be communicated to Member States three  months before the opening of the session. That would  not apply if the author of the proposal wished merely  to establish a general principle, to be brought to the  Conference's notice at future sessions.
(31) The CHAIRMAN noted that the preliminary dis-  cussion on the principle of increasing the membership  of the Board to 24 had so far revealed nothing but  approval of that principle. After the three speakers  remaining on his list, he therefore proposed to close  the discussion.  Agreed.
(32) Mr. VEDOVATO (Italy) supported the Franco-  Japanese proposal. He thought indeed that it was  amply justified by the Board's increased responsibi-  litles and the greater number of Member States.  {33) Mr. RAADI (Iran) thanked Mr, Adiseshiah for  the information he had supplied. He announced that  delegation also supported the Franco-Japanese  proposal, which provided the only possible means, at  the moment, of remedying the une geographical  distribution of the countries represented on the Board  He thought, however, that the remedy was only a tern-  porary one, and that the Conference should decide that  the mimber of seats on the Board should be adjusted  periodically in future, to take account of increases in  the number of Member States. In conclusion, he  siressad that the constitutional principle of rotation  within the Board should be sirictly applied.  (A) Mr, PETROV (Bulgaria) was whole-heartedly in  favour of the Franco-Japanese proposal. He thought  it essential to {increase the membership of the Board  in view of the possibility of further States' joining the  Organization.
(35) Noting that there was full support of the principle  of the Franso-Japanese proposal, the CHAIRMAN  asked the Commission to consider the amendment to  that proposal submitted by the Liberian delegation.
(26) Mr, WILLIAMS (Liberia) explained that Mr.  Massaquoi had heen elected to serve on the Board for  the first time in 1953, to replace Mr. Ribnikar of  Yugoslavia for the remainder of the latter's term of  office, {.e. for ore year only, At the eighth session  of the General Conference, Mr. Massaquoi had had  the misfortune to be among those elected for two years  only. The result was that Liberia's two terms of  office on the Board amouated to only three years; that  was most regrettable iu view of the fact that it was  the only country on the Board to represent Africa  South of the Sahara. The Liberian delegation
539  v-2  accordingly appealed to delegates, in the interests -  of equity and justice, to accept the Liberian amendment
(27) Mr, MALYSHEV (Byelorussian Soviet Socialiat  Republic) drew the Chairman's. attention to à discre-  pancy between the English text of the proposal sub-  mitted by the Liberian delegation (document 9C/ADM/2:  Addendum, p. 2) and the Russian translation of it.  The former provided for the case of two consecutive  terms of office of a Board member totalling less than  four years, whereas the latter mentioned "less than  three yeara'.
(28) The CHAIRMAN replied that the Secretariat  would ensure that the Russian text was corrected,
(29) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Re-  publica) seconded the Liberian amendment.
(30) Mr. de HOOG (Netherlands) regrettéd that his  delegation felt obliged to oppose the Liberian amend-  ment, though not because it did not rate highly the  part played by Mr. Massaquoi in the work of the  Board. The question had been debated at length at  Montevideo and he thought it unnecessary to repeat  the arguments put forward at that time.
(31) Mr. BEGASHAW (Ethiopia) seconded the  Liberian amendment.
(32) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) felt bound to  oppose the Liberian amendment but, like the delegate  of the Netherlands, wished to assure Mr. Massaquoi  that he regretted having to do so. It was a purely  constitutional mater. After examination of the  Liberian Ambassador's letter to the Director-General,  it seemed to the United Kingdom delegation that there  was some confusion: it was apparently assumed that,  if the amendment were not adopted, Liberia could no  longer have a seat on the Board. That was not the  case; like India, which was in a similar position,  Liberia could perfectly well propose another candidate.
(33) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) recalled that the  opinion of the Legal Committee at Montevideo had  been that,” with the change-over to à governmental  Executive Board, members having served only part  of their terms of office at the time of the changé  should be considered as having served full terms. He  wishéd to know whether that decision were applicable  to Liberia, in view of the fact that ha had never been  elected for a full term of office before the eighth  session of the General Conference, but only for a  specific period of one year. If he served for only  three years on thé Board, it would be the shortest  term of office of any member since the establishment  of Unesco.
(34) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) r'éad an extract from  the Legal Committee's répori to the Administrative  Commission at the Montevideo session, which wes  reproduced by the Commission in ita réport to the  General Conference (document 8C/JUR/6). The Com-  mittee's opinion covered all members of the Board  who had sat on it first as individuals in their own  right, and then as representatives of théir govesn-  ments. With regurd to the duration of terms of office,   v-2 ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  the Committee had given as its opinion that terme  which were brought to an end before their expiry date  should be considered as full terms. But it had not  provided for the case of members elected in the middle  of a term, He regretted that he could not himself give  a ruling, and invited members to consult the document  from which he had quoted,
(35) Mr. MOURA BRASIL (Brazil) thought that the  matter should be referred to the Legal Committee for  an opinion, after which it could be reconsidered by the  Commission.
(36) For the reasons given by previous speakers, Mr,  STAHL (Sweden) regretfully opposed the Liberian  amendment.
(37) In view of the need for haste, the CHAIRMAN  hoped that the delegate of Brazil would not press his  proposal, To refer the Liberian amendment forthwith  to the Legal Committee would mean postponing à  decision on the Franco-Japanese proposal also.
(38) As the Commission had a very heavy agenda, Mr.  CAMPBELL (New Zealand) moved that a vote be taken  forthwith on the principle of the Liberian amendment.
(39) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) thought that the Com-  mission, faced with the Liberian proposal, should  come to a decision as to whether or not the text should  be transmitted to the Conference, If it decided in the  negative, it should then discuss the interpretation to  be placed upon the opinion expressed by the Legal Com-  mittee at Montevideo, and the question whether that  interpretation applied to the Liberian proposal. It  was the question of interpretation which might be put  to the Legal Committee.
(40) The CHAIRMAN announced that he would take a  vote on the question whether or not to recommend that  the Liberian proposal be included as an amendment to  the Franco-Japenese amendment, for submission to he  Conference in plenary meeting.
(41) Mr. CHEDIAK (Cube) thought that the meeting  was uearing a solution of the matter under discussion.  To Commission had before it two proposed amend-  ards to the Constitution, one submitted jointly by  France and Japan, which seemed to have met with  féirly general approval, and another submitted by  Liberia, which, as its wording showed, was to be con-  sidered rather as an amendment. to the previous amend-  ment. He thought that à vote should first be taken on  the Franco-Japaneae draft amendment and then on the  Liberian amendment. He agreed that both proposals,  should be referred to the Legal Comm, tee for an  opinion,
(42) While sympathizing with the attitude of the dels-  gate of Cuba; the CHAIRMAN pointed out that the  Liberian amendment, béing an amendment to the  Franco-Japanese proposal, would have io be voted on  firat. ,Ç . .
(43) The proposai, te. include ‘he Liberian amendment  in the Franco- -Japanese ariendment was adopted by 19  votes to 17, with 5 abstentions.
(44) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) reminded the Commi:  sion that an amendment to the Uriesco Constitution -  had to be adopted by a two-thirds majority, When the  Japanese delegation at Montevideo had proposed an : ‘  amendment tn an amendment - a situation identical :  with the case in point - the then Chairman of the  Administrative Commission had decided that a similar  two-thirds majority was required for the adoption of  amendmonts to amendments.
(45) Mr. SABA (L-gal Adviser) said that that was eo  under Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure of the Con-  ference, But the question was whether the Commis-  sion had voted on an amendment or merely on the  principle of including the Liberian proposal in the  Franco-Japanese proposal, He asked the Commission  to decide on that point, '
(46) The CHAIRMAN ruled that a simple majority was  all that was required at that stage. The actual text  of the amendment would be studied by the Legal Com-  mittee, which would report back to the Commission.  In approving the text at that time, a two-thirds majo-  rity would be required. He adde? that any delegate  was, of course, free to challenge his ruling on that  point.
(47) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) asked whether, when ;  a vote was taken on the text drafted by the Legal Com:  mittee on the basis of the Franco-Japanese proposal  and the Liberian proposal together, the members of -  the Commission would be obliged to adopt or reject’  the two proposals en bloc.
(48) The CHAIRMAN replied that any Zelegate could  request the soparation of the vote at that stage.
(49) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan) wished to know whether,  in the circumstances, when the text came back to the  Commission, the vote on each separate part would re-  quire a simple or a two-thirds majority.
(50) The CHAIRMAN replied that each part of the ; .  proposal would require a two-thirds majority. The  question of a separate vote on either part did not call,  far a vote by the Commission; it would be taken '  simply at the request of any delegate.
(51) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) explained that, at its  next meeting, the Commission would have to recon’  sider both proposals, At the moment, it was simply  discussing whether the texts should be referred to --  tho Legal Committee for formal drafting. It the texts  were to be gubmitted to the General Conference, théy  would certainly have to be adopted by a two-thirds  majority, Under Rule 85 of the Rules of Pro-  cedure, a separate vote was automatically taken  on request,  (€) Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium) (Rapporteur) was  convinced that it was not appropriate to refcr the -  texts to the Legal Committee unless they had been . :  adopted by the Commission with the necessary majo-  rity. It was ‘not possible to adopt an amendment by  a two-thirds majority and adopt the principle of the  amendment by a simple majority. The same majority  was required in both cases.   ADMINISTRATIVE counission v-8'
463) The CHAIRMAN ren'arked that the comments of  be delogute of Balghim considtuted à a challenge to his   reling, would therefore aik the Commission to  Ds vtr ce pot to maistis bis ruling.  ‘dm reply ton question ‘from Mr, ARTHUR (United  Kingdom), the CHAIRMAN sald that his ruling applied  .also to the io to refer Franco-Japanese  _.smepdment to the Legal C ties,  (#8) 1t was agreed by 33 votes to 18, with no absten-  tices, to maintain the Chairman's ruling.  (se) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Jépan) explained that he hed  voted against the Chairman's ruling because, in the  similar situtition which had arisen at Montevideo, the  chairmin of the Administrative Commission bad given  the opposite ruling, The decision just taken might be  logical but it was contrary to precedent.  {81) Mr. r. Nguyen. QUANG- -TRINH (Viet-Nam) regratied  ut be D had not had an opportunity to speak before  men had announced his ruling. He wished to say  how much It didturbed him to see the Commission,  , Lffected by one individual case, taking decisions on  t were in fact amendments to the Constitution,  se ihout being quite certain of the majority that was  ‘required,  x) The CHAIRMAN apologized to the delegate of  Yiet-Nam, but explained that, usrder ‘Rule 73 of the  “Rules of Procedure, any challenge fo the Chairman's  Faling had to hé voted on at ‘once.’
(89) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) had |  approved the Chairman's riling in viéw Pet the fact  that the final vote, which dloné was decisive, would  take place after the text had beea sent back to the  Commission by the Legal Committee. Only a preli-  inary ‘discussion was being held at the moment.
(80) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) asked if'it wére’  ; ‘possible, Under Rule 85 of the Rules of Procédure, to  fake à vote forthwith ori the principle of increasing the  membership of the Executive: , voting separately  afterwards on the amended Franco- - Japanese proposal.  it 20, he would move that the Commission vote forth-  with on that principle,  “{6i) The Chairrhan having replied in the affirmative,  ‘tie Commission unanimoiisly approved the principle ;  of the Franco-Japanese amendment. 7
(64) The CHAIRMAN remarked that the Franco:  Japanese proposal, as ainended by Liberia, would be  . foéwarded to the Legal Committee, which would also  be asked t5 examine the applicability &f lie decision  dt the eighth session of the General Conference to the  specific casa of the Liberian member of the Board.  Wik 123 OF THE AGENDA: COMBRZATION OF TE REPORT  OF TRE EXECUTIVE BOARS ON THE SC/LE, CURMENCY AND  VOLLECTION OF TRE CONTRIBUTIONS OF MIE ! ‘R STAVES  {docimmeais 9C/ADM/S Rev, 9C/ADM/2 Nav, Addenda 1 dad  Corrtgendam, $C/ ADM/ 4)
(63) The CHAIRMAN fovited Sir Ben Bowen Thomas,
541  that the problem of fixing     representing the Executive Board, vo request te  barre at Board - Toca ve  C/ADM/3 Rav. ; Addentuss | Yoo  ied ze  ae Et Ad timed X i Kin |  a de dr sa Cy ym aon,  with certain comments and i which  were to be found in document 9C/ADM/3 Rey, , Addes-  - dum 1, Ho hed nothing to add to the {aformatica given  “ in that document.
(65) Comménting on the jubjeci Safore the. ‘Commis-  sion, Mr, HARPER-§ (Comptroller) explained  xing a suitable Soe. of Soatr ia  tions for Unesco for. ds -1956 hid been complicated  by cerfain events which hed taken place in the United  Nations during the past twelve months, .  Up to and including he the vighth 5 session of the demain  Conference, the Unesco dcale had been based upon the  United Nations scale, for reasons set forth in péra- ..'  graph 1 of dogumient 9C/ADM/3 oy oy cha  ment needed had been to adipt the United Koper seu  for the difference in membership between the two  Organizationg. That had been a relatively. hid ‘ ;  matter, since the Unifed Nations provided. theoretical.  percentages for non-members. It had really been à  purely mathematical process; the onslèst example fo  take was the 1988-1986 scale, where Members | had  been treated alike, including the Uni tes ot, hi  America, previcudly fixed it the maximum 33, 33  per cent. One other adjustment had “th the
1955-19056 scale: the per capita prigaiple, préfriousiy  only a stated’ prinoiple, had been prit into e a  Up to 1955, the membership of the United Nitions  had beea relatively’ stabilized and ahÿ changéd in the  United Nations scale had beda of minor’  had béen related to changes in’national ny statistics.  in Decembér 1955, however, the United  “ admitted 18 new Member States, but, at the shme for  the General Assembly had voted à scale ot [ontributions  for 1986 without those 16 néw Members béilg included,  In'érder to Pectify that. the Usited Nations, Committée  on Contr itnitidria had met in March’ 1856 2e Ww prepare :  . propoeais for the General Agsambly.  ‘were due fo be considéréd  , Thine tlt com  dde “Gederél'Âsée  at its session beglaning | in November 1086, nd’ A  show i Annex I to document 9 éc/ADM/S Rov.  Thé matter bid beed onig}ici  fact that the Genere) Avenir oN véted iid the     membership to perio Ye | por arte priacipie; '
(2) To make no change for States ‘saying the maxi-  mum or the minimum contribution;
(3) To épreèd the remaining bebitit over ‘ail other  Member Stated pro rata.  Those proposals were conteste by. we United States  ot America, which paid the highest contribution,  If the Unesco scale for 1067-1058 Were bésed on the   V-2 ADMINISTRATIVE OOMMISSION  proposals of the United Nations Committee, two prob-  lema would emerge for Unesco:  (a) A numbér of Members of Unesco, formerly non-  Members of the United Nations were being integrated  into the United Nations scale with a reduction of what  was formerly their theoretical United Nations percen-  tage, but six other Members of Unesco still remained  non- Members of the United Nations with no change in  their theorétical percentages.  (b) The actual reyised scale to be adopted by the  United Nations for 1956, 1957 and 1958 would not be  known by the Conference during its current session.  That was of importance, because the proposals before  the United Nations were being contested by the United  States of America.  That matter had already been considered by the  Executive Board at its 44th session, but the Bosrd had  been unable to formulate à definite recommendation  to the Conference. The results of the Board's exami--  nation of the problem were contained in document
9C/ADM/3 Rev., Addendum 1, That document indica-  ted that, if the Unesco 1957-1958 scale were based on  the proposals before the United Nations Assembly, an  injustice would be done to the six non-Members of the  United Nations, unless théir theoretical percentages  were adjusted. The document also indicated that, if  the proposals before the United Nations Assembly  were used for the 1957-1958 Unesco scale, the per-  centage of the United States of America would come  out at about 31,5 per cent as against the existing figure  in the 1955-1956 scale of 30 per cent.  The Board had pointed out two possible methods of  avoiding such an increase in the United States! per-  centage!  One would be to introduce appropriate wording into  the resolution, limiting the percentage of the United  States of America to 30 per cent;  The other would be to use the scale already adopted  by the United Nations for 1956, 1957 and 1958, without  the 16 new Members init, as a basis for the 1957- -1958  Unesco scale.  The main argument in favour of the first alternative  was that the United States of America should not have  its percentage increased above the existing level, and  the main argument in favour of the second alternative  was that the proposed scale before the General  Assembly was unlikely to be adopted before the Unesco  Conference finished.  In order to give an indication of what the results of  the various alternatives would be, a table had been  drawn up and appeared in document 9C/ADM/3 Rev. ,  Addendum 1, Corrigendum.  Mr. Harper- -Smith added that the Secretariat was  available to give any further information which might  be required, but of course the Director-General made  no recommendation to the Conference on that point.
(66) The CRAIRMAN remarked that the Board's  analysis would certainly facilitate the Commission's  task. He proposed to subdivide the work into a numbe  of stages, In the first place, the Commission had to  decide whether the Uaesco scale should be based où th  United Nations scale, Secondly, it had to decide  whether the Unesco scale for 1957-1958 should be  based on the scale already adopted by the United Nation  for 1956, 1957 and 1938, or whether it should be based  on the proposed scale which was awaiting approval  by the General Assembly.  Should the Commission decide that the Unesco scale  should be based on the proposed United Nations scale,  it would then have to consider whether to make any  particular adjustments in connexion with the United  States' contribution ahd those of Member States not  Members of the United Nations. If there were no objec-  tion, he would take it that there was gensral acceptance  of the proposal to take the United Nations scale asa  basis for that of Unesco, Agreed,  It remained for the Commission to choose between  the gcale already adopted for 1956, 1957 and 1958, or  that awaiting approval by the General Assembly.
(67) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) inquired whether the Commission was being asked  to take decisions only on the principles involved or whe-  ther it was supposed to agree to the figures in the table  given in Annex III (document 9C/ADM/ 3 Rev, ,Addendum
1, Corrigendum), In the latter case, certain explam-  tions from the Secretariat would be required, as there  were some strange phenomena in the table conterned.  For instance, deapite the admission of 16 new Member  States, the assessments for Canada, France and other  old Member States had increased. The assessments  of other countries remained unchanged, while others  again were reduced.
(68) Mr, HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) assured the  delegate of the Soviet Union that there was no question  of voting on anything but the principle, since the figures  in Annex 111 were merely given as an illustration. What  the exact membership of the Organization would be on
1 January 1957 was not yet known. Moreover, it had  always been the practice in the past to vote, not on  actual figures, but on a formula, With regard to the  examples quoted by the Soviet delegate, Canada's  assessment was regulated not so much by the United  Nations scale as by the per capita principle, i.e. there  had been a change in population figures. As for France,  the latter's contribution had been raised in the United  Nations since Uneaco's scale for 1955-1956 had been  drawn up.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.