15 November 1956, at 11.30 a.m,  Chairman; Mr. DAVIES (Australie)  ITEM 16 OF THE AGENDA ; QUESTIONS CONCERNING TRE  HEADQUARTERS OF UNESCO, REPORT OF TRE  MEADQUARTERS COMMITTEE (document 9C/ ADM/ 20)
(1) Mr. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuels) (Chairman of  the Hendquarters Committee) submitted the Corumit-  tee's report on the progress of work and the  additional funds considered necessary to complete it.  The well merited election of Mr, Gardner Davies  as Chairman of the Commission made it necessary  for Mr. Parra-Perez to submit the report, although  he had thought that it would be thé former, as the  Committee's Rapporteur, who would do so,  Mr. Davies would give any additional information and  explanations required, but first the Director-General  would give the Commission some further explanations  shout the document, to introduce the discussion,  (A) The CHAIRMAN thanked the Chairman of the  Headquarters Committee for his introductory state-  ment and drew attention to the various sections of the  Committee's report. He then called on the Director-  General to mak2 a supplementary statement on the  progress of the work since preparation of the  document,
(3) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL felt {t was necessary  for the Commission to know something of the histori-  cal background of the project in érder properly to  understand some of the difficulties outlined in the  report. When he had been elected to the post 62  Director-General of Unesco, he had found certain  proposals in preparation far à new headquarters  building. The Generil Conference had adopted thé  plans for the building on the day of his own election,  the architects had been chosen and certain of the  administrative arrangements had been prepared in  draft form for hig immediate approval. He had had  no hand in the preparation of those proposals, but  they had appeared, at first sight, to bé in good order  and he had approved. them, Looking at the matter  now, in true perspective, however, le reglized that  the administrative struc ture for the project should  have been established Somewhat differently. The.  Head of the Headquarters Office was sn engineer and,  as such, he believed he had performed a very good  job; but insufficient provision had been made fir |  adequate supervision of certain administrative and  liaison duties, and too much responsibility for such  control and liaison had been left in the hands of the  engineér, He wished to state most candidly to the -  Commission that he regarded the Headquarters project  as his own chief administrative failure since becoming  Director-General, Some intensive work by himself,  by Mr. Thomas and by Mr. Montagnier had resulted -  in the preparation of reliable information and propo-  sais, so that the administrative failures of the past in
575  no way affected the merit of the proposals before the  Commission. The Secretariat had been greatly  assisted in the drafting of document 9C/ADM/20 by a  working party of the Headquarters Committee consist-  irg cf Mr, Gardner Davies (Australia), Mr. Cowell  (United Kingdom), Mr. Cabouat (France), and  Mr, Pompei (Italy), with the valuable co-operation of  representatives of the French Crovernment. He wished  publicly to express the Secretariat's appreciation of  the invaluable assistance it hail received from that  group.  Since the date at which document 9C/ADM/20 had  been prepared, an additional and unanticipated delay  had occurred with respect to the delivery of the  windows which to a large extent represented the  outside walls of the building. The Secretariat had  been ansured that delivery of those windows would  begin arly in October, but to date no information  had been received that even one window had been  installed. As the installation of windows was essential  to the continuation of other interior work, it was likely  that that delay would affect the whole project. He  would inform the Coramission as soon as further  information on that matter was received.  Il. Progress of work
(4) There being no comraenta on Part II of the report -  Progress of work - the CHAIRMAN conoluded that the  Commission had taken note of that section.  III. Financial status of the project
(5) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL announced that he had  no up-to-date information to add to the data contained  in Part II - Financial status of the project.
(6) Mr. MUNRO (Australia) pointed cût that the  Director-General's original estimaté of the antici-  pated deficit had been $503,000; that that sum had  been increased to the $098,443 indicated by the Com-  mittee in paragraph {1 of its report; and that an  additional sum of $600,000 was requested in paragraph
23 to provide for further price incresses which might  occur between 31 August 1936 ‘and thé dompletion of  the project. The sums mentioned were quite consider-  able and he felt that the ‘proposals made required study  in detail by a representative group of the Commission.  He therefore proposed the establishment of a small  working party for that purpose.
(7) The CHAIRMAN felt ‘that the report contained all  the details required by the Conimission with Fegird  to the anticipated deficit of $908,443, In considering  what price increases might take place in the future,  the Committee had been unable to prepare any  accurate estimates, but had feit that some provision   'v-10  should be made to enable the Director-General to  meet any unavoidable increases and obviate any  interruption of the work. It was for that reason that  the sum of $500,000 had been suggested. E  So far as the proposal to establish à working party  of the Commission was concerned, he would polat out  that the General Conference already Lad a Committee  to which it had appointed 14 Member States - the  Headquarters Committee - and that Committee was  thoroughly acquainted with the background of the  project and would be in a position to consider any  problems arising therefrom with greater facility.  Any questions raised in the Administrative Commis-  sion could be more appropriately referred to that  Commitice than to a new working party.
(8) Mr. de HOOG (Netherlands), referring to the  supplementary information given by the Director-  General; asked whether the estimates for admini-  strative costs, such as those referred to in paragraph
12, would have to be increased further or whether the  cost of the difficulties referred to in paragraph 3 had  been estimated liberally enough to leave the figures  given in document 8C/ADM/20 unchanged,
(9) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that, although it  would be necessary to extend the contracts of some  of the staff of the Headquarters. Office, the Secretariat  would make every effort to keep within the maximum  expenditure figure indicated in paragraph 12, The  contracts concluded by Unesco required the respective  contractors to complete the work by a given date, and  no provision was made for additional payment if the  work wage not completed by that date, unless the con-  tractor could prove that the delay was due to circum-  stances completely beyond his control. It might well  be that the delay in connexion with the windows would  result in additional costs, but the Secretariat would  do everything possible to keep expenditure within the  estimates given.
(10) Mr. SCOTT (Canada) said that his delegation had  been hesitant to intervene in the debate, as Canada had  been unable to participate in the work of the Head-  quarters Committee to the, extent it would have liked,  owing to its large domestic ‘constriction programme  and its shortage of suitable experts. His delegation  had welcomed the most candid statement of the  Director-General, but, whilst believing that the  aesthetic, quality’ ‘of the new building wés far superior  to that of any, other United Nations or Specialized  Agency building, there | were certain criticisms that  had to bé Taiséd.  _ Referring to the’ statement ‘mädè 1 in faragtip 4 of  the document regarding thé provision of "adequate  safeguards for protécting the ii étereats ot the Organi-  zation and eñsuriig the seléction of the most  advantageous fend ers. from both the technical and the  financial viewpoir ‘he felt’ that, although it was too  late to attempt oA the $1 000,000 deticit,  experience showed that even more "adequate’ safe-  guards” would be required for the protection of the  Organization if it were ‘decided to proceed with the  construétion of the third building, He would be  interested to have further détails concerning the type  of contracts passed by the Organization, and the  "escalator" clause contained therein. He found it -
576  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  difficult to vider stand why those contracts had not  conteined an “upset” clause, whereby any costs above  the agreed figure bécame the responsibility of the  contractor, ‘If the proposal for the third building  were accepted, he thought that Member States should  seek guarantens that contracts would be more skilfully  negotiated, There was, after all, a grest deal of -  prestige attached to the construction of à new inter-  national building and use should be made of the  experience gained in the conatruction of the United  Nations headquarters in New York, He would also  suggest the Insertion of a bonus-penalty clause to  insure against delays. He thought, furthermore, that  the additionel $500,000 referred to in paragraph 23  should be established as a contingency reserve and  should not form a separate appropriation for the  project.  The engineering history of the project was, .  unfortunately, not such as to inspire confidence, some  of the mistakes reported being an inadequate electrical  installation due fo faulty design, lack of space for  mechanical tions in the basement, insufficient  soil tests to present an accurate portrayal of sub-soll  conditions, inadequate study of ventilation and air-  conditioning systems, resulting in an underestimation  of costs, and a change from oil to ‘coal for heating  purposes at an advanced stage of planning. As the  engineering costa of a building of that type usually  amounted to about 20 to 30 per cent of the total, the  report was an admission that that proportion of the  construction was not as well designed and executed  as might have been expected.  Speaking as an architect, he could not but comimend  those of his colleagues who had obtained what appeared  to total 8,6 per cent of the building costs as their fee,  In most countries, the normal rate for work of that  nature was 6 Fer, cent, and in many others 5 per cent.  He therefore thought that some further details, and an  explanation regarding the additional 2 1/2 per cent,  should be given. .  He supported the proposal of the Australian delegate  regarding the establishment ot a small working party,  as he believed that a 14 member Committee was  rather a large body to go into questions of detail with  any thoroughness. .  Turning to Part VI of the report - Artistic decora-  tion of the Headquarters Building - he recalléd that  the criticism was often made that contemporary so  decoration was applied to a building and was not of the  building; in other words, that integration "of archi-  tecture, painting and sculphire had rot ÿet been ;  achieved, ‘For that Teäson, he would propose ‘that that  phase of the work be carried out over a period of time,  with die’ regard to matters of greater. urgency, He  would smend any “proposal with regard to ‘the applica-  tion of works of art to'the effect that the design board  be allowed to ‘continue ite supervision ét the integration  of thosé arts over a’period of, say, tive to six years,  to ensure the maxirhum consistency and harmony.  Although his delegition reserved its opinion on the  construction of the third building, it felt impelled to  comment on the unique quality of one international  agency's being involved in arrangements for the  rental of spate to another.
(11) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL recalled that he had  referred in his introductory statement to a number of   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMIBSION  decisions that had been made before We hid become.  responsible for the project... The whole of thé ‘sub-soil,  for instance, should presumably have been tested -  before the General Conference adoptid fhe plans for  the building, The difficulties that hid arisen because  of the bankruptcy. of the original engineering contrac-  tors was a responsibility of the arcliitects, although  that firm had had à good reputation and had appeared  competent. . The change-over froin oil to coal for  heating had been made upon his own responsibility,  because the engineer in charge had. indicated that  long-term maintenance costs would be lower, thus  relieving the future budgets of the Organization. That  decision had also taken account of the possibility that  an outbrerk of armed conflict might out off oil  supplies, wheress there was less risk that coal |  - supplies would be affected, However, he had no  ob ection to the close examination of all those points,  r by 2 working party À the Commission, or by  be Headquarters Committee, . |  The question whether the ‘Organisation ‘should adopt  {he American or Canadian practice in the establish-  tient of contracts, or should continue, as in the past,  t observe the French practice in that respect, was a  matter for discussion. The "escalator" clause  covered possible increases in labour costs and the  price of materials, and changes in the plans attached  to the contracts. ’  He had ‘already stajed ‘that ‘some of the change orders  had been caused by. a Fedefinition of the Secretariat's  needs, the plans prepared in 1953 having proved to be  inadequate, The Secretariat had been slow in réalizing  the financial implications of those, changès © and had not  believed that they w vould | lead to à deficit. He fully  agreed with the delegate ‘of Australia that the estimates  of deficits had ‘beer too low “and had been made toé late,  one factor in that ‘délay being the lorg asd protracted  negotiations with ‘contractors with regard to the  detailed operation’ of the "escalstor" clauses. The  necessity for some of the change orders, was to be  attributed to the inadequacy of the plans’ ‘submitted by  the architects’ and approved by the General Conference  in 1953, Insufficient provision had been made therein  for many elements, and both the Secretariat and the  General Conference should accept some responsibility  for that.  He thought that the’ introduction of a boñus-penalty  clause might affect some of the contracts not yet  negotiated by making the offer higher, and thus would  result in money being taken out of ane pocket to be  put into another,  So far As the ‘artistic decoration of the building was  concerned, most of the sculpture and painting had  already been decided upon and contracts had been made.  However, he could accept the suggestion of the Canadian  delegate in the aénse that any sculptures or paintings  not yet contracted for could be commissioned gradually  over à period of years, and additional items could be  added if that was the Comniission's wish;  - The architects‘ fees had been detérmined on the  basis of recommendations made by the Headquarters  Committee, concerning which further details could be  given by Mr. Montagaier.
(12) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Chief, Bureau ot Conference  Planning and General Services) said that, as early as  the end of 1951 and before any contract had been
577  v-10  entered into with the architect responsible for. the,  tivat projeét, the Headquarters Committee  examined the question of architects’ fees, As the  building was to be constructed in France, the Com-  mittee had decided to adopt the scale of foes normally  applicable in ‘that country, i.e, that of the Society of  Architects (Ordre des Architectes), à scale ‘which  provided for remuneration for special, difficult or  decorative work...  Referring to the percentage of the ‘toda cont of  construction that such’ remuneration represented, ;  Mr, Montagnier pointed out that both the overall rate  applying to ordinary work and an increase for parti-  cularly difficult work or work connected with special  items of decoration had to be taken into account. In  France, the overall rate for perd building work  rate es to. 1,2 per cent, without taking into  account the fees for, additional work and the travelling  expenses of ‘the two’ ‘architects who were ‘not living in  France. He reminded the Commission that the General  Conference, at its 1952 sessio + had approved the  provisions relating to the ar tects’ fees, He also  pointed out that the figures relating to the total esti-  mated expenditure for architects’ and consultants‘  fees given in paragraph 13 of document 9C/ADM/20,  included $65, 422 for the first project and $6,000 for  the second, and that the sum of $441,667 amounted to  roughly 7.2 per cent of the costs of construction and  equipment. |  Ms. Montägnier drew thié attention of delegates to  the fact that the architects were requesting an incryase  in their feés because of the additional work they hed  done and the adjustments to which they were entitled  under the terms of their contracts, having regard to  the "weighted index" issued monthly by the Ministry  of Reconstruction and Housing.
(13) Mr, PARRA- PEREZ (Venezuela) (Chatrni ka of  the Headquarters Cotimittee) said that hé had ijothing  to add to the repliés giv eri t6 the Canadian delcgate by  the Director-General and Mr. Montagnier. As  Chairman of the ‘Headquarters Committee, however,  he wished to say that it was Fegretiable that the |  Canadian delegate, a member’ of the Headqua: {ters  Committee, had not put forward his interesting criti-  clams at any of the meetings held by the Committee  in the last four years. His explanation for not doing  so earlier might carry weight; but’ the Committee had  still been placed ina difficult positica, 7  In his opinion it was not appropriatà for the delegate  of Canada to suggest, ds the ‘Australiat; delegate had  also done, that an ad hoc committee be het up to study  thé réport, since the General Conference lad ‘éstab-  lished the Headquarters Coniniittee, consigting’ of the  representatives of 14 Member States, which | had for  years been considering questions relating te the  construction of thé building and was therefors better  able to clear up any problems than would bé à com-  mittee set up by thé Commission and consisting of  representatives who were not familiay with the ;omplex  problems connected with the building. He thought,  however, that the Commission might appoint certivin  members to meet with the Headquarters Committee   v-10  for the purpose of sxamining and finding solutions for  all the problems confronting i.
(14) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) supported  the proposal of the Chairman of the Headquarters  Committee. He emphasized that the Canadian dele-  gate could take part without difficulty in the Head:  quarters Committeé's discussions, as Canada was a  member and his experience would probably be most  useful, As Chairman of the Administrative Commis-  sion, the Australian delegate could also take part in  its work and Mr. Carneiro thought that the Committee  might invite other members of the Commission to  attend the meeting, without sccording them the right  to vote. In that way, it would be in a position to dis-  cuss a problem an which the Conference would  probably have to adopt à number of resolutions in  conditions which would enable it to correct past  mistakes and avoid similar anes in the future.
(15) -The CHAIRMAN said he would be reluctant to  refer the matter back to the Headquarters Committe?  without first having hid a full discussion thereof in  the Administrative Coramission, The report before  the meeting was the result of a recent, exhaustive  study of the situation by the Headquartérs Committee,  ussisted by the staff of the Headquarters Office and  officials of the French Ministry of Reconstruction,  He did not pee what more the Committee could find to  report until it had received the opinion of members  of the Administrative Commission.  {16) Mr. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela) (Chairman of  the Headquarters Committee) said that he had not’  wished to refer the docurnent back to the Committee  but that, if the Commission found it necessary to  obtain certain additional data, the Committee, which  had been set up by the General Conference itself, was  at its disposal.
(17) Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) felt that, in view of  the statement made by the Chairman, the most  profitable solution would be the establishment of an
578  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  ad hoc committee or working party, as suggested  earlier by his delegation.  REA ) -
(18)' Thé CHAIRMAN explained that it would be quite  proper fof the Headquarters Committee to meet and  report on any matters or specific questions raised by  the Administrative Commission) and not already -  covered in the'report before the meéting. However,  it seemed clear that neither the Headquarters Com-  mittee nor any other body could make any accurate  estimate of the fluctuation that might occur'in con-  struction éosts between 31 August 1956 and the com-  pletion of thé project. The Headquarters Committee,  at its last meeting, had ‘adopted the solution outlined -  in paragraph 23, which did not involve the approval  of an arbitrary figure, but which did provide the  Director-General with funds '{o ensure the completion  of the project if the nedessity arose.  The delegate of the Utiited States of America having  indicated his desire to make certain proposals with res-  pect to Part III of the document - Fi ancial status of the  Project - the Chairman ruled that that would be in order.  economy, .  Secondly, his delegation suggested that, instead of  resorting td'a loan from tho Working Capital Fund  to make whatever further advances were liecessary,  the Director-General should negotiate with the  competent French authorities for a further interest-  free loan, to be repaid over a pericd of 30 years, in  the same mariner as the original loan.
(20) The CHAIRMAN announced that discussion of  that matter would continue at the aiternoon meeting.  The meeting rose at 1.5 p.m.