IV-20 PROGRAMUE  available to the German delegation and any other  delegrtions interested,
(80) Mr, PANTAZIS (Greece) mentioned that, two  yours previously, his country's Government and  National Commission had asked Unésco to publish  an anthology of Greek poetry as part of its pro-  gramme for the translation of representative works,  No reply to that roquest had yet been received,
(81) Before adjourning the meeting, the CHAIRMAN  expressed the view that it was frustrating for    COMMISSION  delegations to be obliged to hurry the'dis: i}  cussion of draft resolutions which they hid taken much  time and trouble in preparing. . Moreover, concentra.  tion on draft resolutions blurred their visica of the  programme as a whole,” In her opinion, therefore,"  the functioning of the Programme Commission and its  mathods of work would have to be reviewed, in the  hope of finding a more satisfactory solution for the  next session of the General Conference, She asked  delegates to give thought to that problem,  The meeting rose at 5, 38 p, m,  TWENTIETH MEETING
26 November 1956, at 6, 30 p, m.  Chairman: Mrs, MYRDAL (Sweden)  later: Mr, ANAS (Afghanistan)  ITEM 9.3 OF THR. AGENDA : SOCIAL SCIENCES (Continued)  (documents 9C/8 and Addenda and Corrigends)  Resolution 3 72 (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN said that discussion would con-  tinue on items in the programme of the Department  of Social Sciences upon ‘which decision had beén  deferred; ‘and ésked for comments on the revised text  feels 3. 72, prepared by the Secretariat in  accdrdance with the views previously expressed by  the Commission (document 9C/PRG/PROV/1),
(2) There being no objection, the revised text of  resolution 3. 72 was adopted unsnimously, with one  abstention,
(3) Mr, MARquis (United States of iartch) ex-  pressed his’ satisfaction with the’ revised text and en-  dorsed the voté. However, he wished to point out:  that the expression "to teachers" should not have been  included in paragraph (A) as, fitstly, the Information  concerned should be available to everyone,’ ‘and,  secondly, use of that phrase implied that Unesco would  deal directly with teachers, That point had been  raised during the debate on the resolution,
3.9 ‘Social Sélènces' and Problems nf Social Devélop-  _ ment (paragraphé 158 to 172 of document 9C/6 and  paragraphs 12a to 172g of document 9C/8,  Corrigendum 1)
(4) Mgr MAROUN | (Lebaiidn) (Raprossiiaiive of the  Executive Board) said that the Executive  studied paragraph 163 of document $C/5 and ivan  drawn up « recommendation calling on the Director  General to measures for the implementation a,  resolution IV, 1. 3, 432 adopted by the General Con-  ference at ite eighth session, subject to certain  ain     conditions which were listed in item 8, 6, 1 of document
42 EX/Decisions. He read out the relevant text,
(6) Mr,‘ VAKIL (India) said that the limpôitance ét the  study of the social implications of industrislizdtion’  was so obvious in underdeveloped countries | that his  delegation éould not but welcome Unedco's efforts to  encourage research in that field, Asian countries  would profit greatly from" such réseärch and his”  Government had willingly’ agreed to undertuké some  financial responsibility for the Research Centre on’  the Social Implications of Industrialisation, id Cal-  cutta, It way obviously important that the orale  of that Céntrè should be ‘ensured, and Hé had ‘we  the statement of the Dépaitind fodnt's Director in "hs  troductory survey that nésco would continue 16 | wip  the Ceiitre at the same financial level for at least two"  years. That would give the Organization ‘wid thé C  tries coficerned sufficient time to eatablish the Cdstre  and € evolve Suitable plans fo¥ its con       tinued opération, - Hé suggdsted that that icy be put   Ed han bo  of the Centre, : Relerring | to paragraph (A) of fost  tion 3. 92, hè ‘Asked what conclusion had heeh re  by the Advisory Committee ‘regarding | the usé, a the  phrase "at the requést of the Government of Indie" in  that resolution. He knew that some doubts had been  Taised in that connexion, since it was felt that the  resolution did not adequately’ express the degree of  Unesco's responsibility for the conduct of the Centre.
(6) Mr, MORITO (Japan) sxprosssd his delagaiion’s  gratification at the establishment of the Calcutta  Centre in compliance with the resolution of the Con-  ferenceat its eighth session, It earnestly hoped hat  thé Centre would be provided with sufficient personel  and facilities to eñsure its efficient ‘and effective  development, Industrialisation was taking place ni  a high technical level and at great speed in many parts   PROGRAMME OOMMJISSION  of Asia and Africa, so that the social impact and im-  plications thereof were of special significance. ….  Japan was not a participating member of the Centre,  but was fully prepared to cor operate, and beligyed |  that its wide experience of ‘the problems, involved would  enable it to make an important contribution to the work  of the Centre. His delegation, therefore, hoped that  the Centre would undertake a project of multilateral  or bilateral research on the impact of industrialisation  and ways of mitigating its destructive effects, as had  been recommended by à resolution of the Asian Re-  gional Confarençe of representatives of National Com-  missions for Unesco, meeting in Tokyo early in 1956.  Consultations between India and Japan regarding the  Implementation of such a research programme on &  bilateral basis had been continuing over a number of  years, and it was hoped that the proposed survey would  be taken up, with Unesco'r assistance, by the Calcutta  Centre,
(7) Mr. LYNKOV (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Re-  public), on behalf of his delegation, warmly supported  draft resolutions 3,01 and 3,92, So far as the Re-  search Centre on Social Implications of Industrializa-  tion in Southern Asia was concerned, he thought that,  as à result of the Centre's work, the research done  should be of practical use in the econoriic and social  development of the countries in that area.  {8) Mr, de BERRENO CARNEIRO (Brazil) said that  his delegation was very much in favour of thé project  for participation in the development of the Research  Centre in Southern Asia. He was glad that the pro-  ject had come up at the time when the Conference was  meeting in Now Delhi, thus showing Unesco's interest  in a country which ‘ ‘was developing rapidly despite  economic difficulties, The budget estimate of $180, 000  for that Centre was not, he thought, ‘sufficient to cover  its running costs entirely, He hoped, - however, that,  in conjunction with other funds supplied by India and  neighbouring countries, it would suffice to enable the  Centre to do useful work.- ’  » Mr. BERTRAND (France) said that the French  ) delegation was much ‘interested in the development of  the Reséarch Centre in Calcutta, and pleased to aee  thet the question was included in the Social Sciences  programme, as if considered that the social implica-  tions of industrialisation © were among the most im-  portant social science problems in the contemporary’  world. Mr. Bertrand hopéd that the Programme Com-  - mission Would bé given further details sbout the total  fends which would be available to the Centre for the  next two years, so as to be able to make a closer es-  -Mmäté of Unesco's participation. ‘He also asked what  ortion of the éxpendifure represented administra-  tive coûts ‘and what proportion was spent on research,  "Re thoughit gréat efforts should be ‘made to devoté the  largest possible proportion of the Centre's funds to  pésearch work. .
(10) Replying to points raised by the deleghte of India,  Mr, MARSHALL (Director, Department of Social  ae) récalied that his statement with regard té:  Io's future suppért of the Ceptre had been to the  st that Unesco would continué to support the Centre  at spproximately the same financial level for the
411  IV-20  following two years, : He had not made wy more  specific financial commitment, neither had he said! that  that support would continue for "at least"! two years,  The Advisory. Committee had indeed discussed the  wording of resolution 3,92, there being some question  us to whether or not the transfer of that project to the  Participation [roframine ‘implied à change in the degree  of responsibility therefor that Unesco was prepared to  undertake... An assurance had heen given that thé …  change was purely.technical and had been madé sololy  for administratiye reasons, and he believed that the  Indian delegation had been further reassured by con-  versations with the Director-General, Furtherinore,  thre other 12 participating countries had agreed that, if  the resolution wer, adopted in its existing form; the  request for aid mentioned in paragraph (A) of the reso-  lution would be made by the Indian Government, on  their behalf, :. .  He welcomed the promise of co-operation given by  the delegate of Japan, ‘since he was fully aware of the  expérierice that country had accumulated in problems  of industrializetion, In spite of the necessity for im-  poaing a regional limit on the activities of the Centre,  he believed that closer contact with Japan would  develop rapidly, -  Referring to the points raised by the delegate of  France, Mr. Marshall drew attention to the informa-  tion contained in the relevant chaptér of document 9C/5  (paragraphs 163 to 165). The Government of India  would contributé up to $35, 050 a year, which it was  expected would more than cover all administrative  expenses and the cost of premises and local staff,  Unesco's contribution of $80, 250 a year would be de-  voted to the payment of professional staff and to re-  search as such, It was difficult to give any more  precise estimate of the percentage of the total budget  of the Centre that’ ‘would be devoted to administrative  costs, as the Centre had only just been established and  had not, as yet, undertaken any research. It was  hoped also that additional support would be received  from participating Member States in the form of  material aid, loan of experts, etc.
(11) There being no further discussion,’ ‘resolution 3, 81  was put to the vote and adopted unanimously.
(12) - The CHAIRMAN’ ‘shnobusiced’ that a voté on resolution
3. 92 would be deferred until aftér discussion of the pro-  posal, contained in document 9C/5, Corrigendum 1  Annex. (paragraphs 00 ‘to 96); for the establishment of  ry Regional Research Centre for Social Problems in  Latin América. l’She opened discussion of resolutions  “ 3.03 and'3.04 - - paragraphs 1614 to 173g ti document  sc/s Corrigenduin 1.
(13) Mr. STEPANEK (Ciéchoslovikis) indicated that  his ‘delegation héd'introduced à similar resolution; but  in a slightly brosdér. form, which he understood would  be considered during discussion of the programine of  the nt of Natural Sciences. In in favour  of resolution 3.93, therefore, he reserved the right to  present his own draft resolution at thé appropriate  moment. “
(14) Mr: MORITO (Japan) expressed na’ detisqaiionts  strong support for the resolution, and its pleasure at  the fruitful kesults achieved’ in implementation of the
1   IV-20  decisions of the Conferérice'at its eighth session in  the same field, It was undéniable that progress in  the peaceful utilization of atomic energy would exert  a signitiéant tifluence on thé moral, social and cultural  life of mankind, as well as on’ man's eéonomic exis-  tence, and his delegation believed that Unesco should  do everyihing possible 'to promote research in that  field, with the ca-operdtiôn of the appropriate experts  and organizations, His éountry, : and his city of  Hiroshima, ‘had a particularly deép concern in the pro-  blem of atomic energy and shared an earnest désire  that the day would come when atomic energy would be  used solely for peaceful purposes. Apart from the  unprecedented destruction of human'life and material  wealth, the use of atomic power in Japan had given  rise to a number of serious problems in the moral,  social and cultural fields, and it would be necessary to  conduct research into the peaceful utilization of atomic  power if such problems were not to arise in different  parts of the world, Furthermore, there was a danger  that the industrial use of atomic power, combined with  the rapid development of automation, might give rise  to a new industrial revolution, with its attendant  social upheaval, He therefore urged adoption of the  resolution before the meeting, so that the studies out-  lined thérein might be initiated as soon as possible,  Japan had just started its experimental research for  the industrial utilization of atomic energy and, in that -  connexion, the Japanese Council of Science had adop-  ted the three following principles: (1)..the principle  of democratic operation - study by democratic rather  than by bureaucratic methods; (2) the principle of  autonomy - study should proceed without outside inter-  ference; (3) the principle of no secrecy - the results  of such studies should be made public, Observance.of  those three principles had done much to obtain the  strong moral support of the general public for the  peaceful iutilization of atomic energy, and he would  commend them to the Commission,
(155 Mr. ALI (Pakistan) supported the remarks of the  delegate of India with respect to the Research Centre  on the Social Implications of Industrialization, in  Calcutta, He also welcomed the proposals contained  in resolution 3.93 and hoped that Unesco could do  much to spread knowledge of the peaceful uses of  atomic energy, about which little was known in many  areas of Asia and Africa.
(16) Mr, ‘YERUSALIMSKY. (Union, of Soviet Socialist  Republics) | had listéned with interest, and emotion to  the statements of the President of Hiroshima Univer-  sity; his delegation was entirely in favour, of the adop-  tion of draft resolution 3. 93, The Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics, he added, already possessed an  electric power station run by nuclear energy, and his  country thought the time had come for a serious study  of the moral and social problems attendant on the  development of atomic energy. -
(17) There béing no further discussion, resolutions 3, 93  and 3, 94 were put tothe vote and adopted unanimously.
3.10 Development of Evaluation Techniques (para-  graphs 173 to.180 and document 9C/DR/16)
(18) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the budgetary
412     PROGRAMME OOMMISSION  implications of the draft resolution submitted by the ‘  French delegation (document 8C/DR/ 16) were $8, 000,
(18) Mr, VITO (Italy) indicated his support for the’  draft resolution contained in document 8C/DR/16, i  asked the delegate of France whether it was his inten-  tion that the proposed study should be carried out in  co-operation with the non-governmental organizations  themselves,
(20) Mr, BERTRAND (France) replied in'the affirmative  and drew the attention of the Italian delegate to paragraph
4 of the draft resolution, callirig on the Director-Genéral  to arrange for such an evaluation to be made, by the !  machinery which, in agreement with the Executive  Board, he deemed most appropriate.
(21) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) (Representative of the  Executive Board) said that the Board thought that the ‘  evaluation of the activities of national non-governmental  organizations should be concerned solely with those  organizations! collaboration with Unesco, not withtheir  work in the fields of their competence.
(22) The CHAIRMAN thought that the proposal of the -  French delegation should be treated as relating to the’  programme projects under item 3. 10 and not as a  separate programme resolution as such.
(23) Mr, MARSHALL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) felt there was some doubt as to what was '  intended by the proposal of the French delegation. If  it were intended that Unesco should undertake a detailed  study of the work being done on its behalf by the various  non- governmental organizations, with which it maintained  relations, he did not think that such a task ‘should be .i  undertaken by the Departinent of Social Sciences alone.  If, however, the intention were to carry out a profound  evaluation of non-governmental organizations as such,  he would draw attention to a meeting recently organized,  under contract with Unesco, by the Union of International  Associations, to determine how such an evaluation c uld  be undertaken. It was intended that the Union shoul  continue its studies, but not with Unesco's financial .:  support. The Commission could, of course, adopt | ,  the proposal of the French delegations, with its budge-  tary implication of $8,000, as a contribution towards :  that study.
(24). ‘Mr. BERKELEY (Secretary) drew attention to à  decision of the Administrative: Commission, taken on:  the recommendation of the Executive Board, to suspend  its quadrennial review ‘of non- governmental organiza,  tions having consultative status with Unesco, and to.  request the Director-General, in éo- operation with thé  Executive Board, to undertake à ‘thorough evaluation of  those organizations, and to report thereon to the ‘tenth  session, . A more detailed and complete survey of those  organizations would be undertaken by the Administra-  tive Commission at the tenth session in the light of the  report to be submitted by the Director-General and the  Executive Board. .
(25) In view ‘of that information, Mr. MARQUIS (uiutied  States of America) felt it would be particularly : unfor+:  tunate to undertake a small-scale project, of limited  social science sponsorship, at the stage reached,   PROGRAMME OOMNMNISBION  LJ  {36) Upon a vote being taken, the proposal submitted  by the delegation of France in document 9C/DR/16  . was rejected by 15 votes to 7, with 16 abstentions,
(37) Mr, MARSHALL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) then pointed out that, of the $10, 000 reduc-  tion, made in document 8C/6 Corrigendum 1, in the  provision for resolutions 3,101 and 3,102, the.  Director-General proposed, in document 8C/6 Corri-  gendum 4, to restore $5,000. Some small change in  the work plans would therefore be necessary if those  resolutions were adopted,
(28) Upon votes being taken, resolution 3.101 was  adopted unanimously, and resolution 3,102 was adopted  with one abstention,
3,11 Social Science Co-operation Offices (paragraphs
(29) Mr, BERTRAND (France) pointed out that draft  :resolution 3.111 raised the question of creating a post  of social science officer in Santiago, He thought it  might be advisable for the Commission to postpone  discussion of that question until it had studied the pro-  jects for setting up a regional Latin American Centre  in Chile for training social science teachers and re-  search workers, and a Regional Centre in Brazil for  research on the social problems of Latin America,  The Commission would then be in a better position to  decide on.the expediency of creating the said post of  social science officer.
(30) Mr, LAGOS (Chile) agreed with the delegate of  France that it would be better to discuss the question  in conjunction with that of the establishment of the  centres in Brazil end Chile.
(3i) The CHAIRMAN agreed to the proposal made by  the delegate of France,
(32) As a point of information relating to paragraph
192, Mr, STERNBERGER (Federal Republic of  Germany) asked why it had been decided to discontinue  * activities with respect to information and common  ideas regarding foreign countries, ’
(33) Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium) asked why it had |  been decided to discontinuc certain activities in con-  nexion with social dévelopment, including the social  "aspects of land reform. Those activities had perhaps,  he thought, been handed over to the Food and Agricul-  ture Organization; if that were so, he wantéd to know  whether FAO was equipped to undertaké the studies.’
(34) Mr. JORDANA DE POZAS (Spain) Was 'spectaliy  interested in the reason why research on the social  aspects of land reform had been discontinfied, since  that was’a matter of particular’ importer 2 Vi Spain,  Laid reform had ceased to concern’ the ui {tribution  of land alone; it had assumed a technllogic: À aspect  and frivolved technical progress, He tl'arelbre wanted  to know whether the Intérnational Researci:"Mfice on  the Social Implications of Technological Change was  in a position to dévote closer attention to the social  reforms which, in agricultural districts, followed  on technological progress.
(35) Mr, MARSHALL (Director, Department of  :  Social Sciences) explained that, as stated in his in- -  troductory remarks, it had been necessary, in the - _  interests of concentration, to restrict certain activities  and to make a number of sacrifices, Work on informa-  tion and common ideas regarding foreign countries  would be continuing in 1957 under contracts awarded  during the current financial perjod, and it had there-  fore been felt unnecessary to make a further provision  therefor in the new programme and budget, It had  been decided to abandon work on the social aspects of  land reform because of the lack of interest shown by  Member States and the difficulty experienced by the  Secretariat in arousing enthusiasm for that project.  The Calcutta Centre, however, would be undertaking  studies of the allied problem of the social implications  of industrialization on rural life, cL  Replying to a further question from the delegate of  the United Kingdom, he explained that work on the  study of women's political rights had also been aban-  doned because of the lack of interest shown by Member  States. He had explained that decision further during  discussion of the chapter on Human Rights.  Mr, Marshall added that paragraph 192 had been in-  cluded in the draft programme of his Department merely  e8 a point of information, and did not represent any  proposal additional to those contained in previous  paragraphs,
(36) With regard to paragraph 183, Mr, RAADI (Iran)  wished to make a comment . which applied to the |  Science Co-operation Office in the Middle East as a  whole. Emphasizing the importance of that Office,  he recalled that its develdpment had long been pldnned  with a view to enabling it to cater for the whole of the  Middle East area. That it had not succeeded in doing,  probably for geographical or linguistic reasons; it  had proved more useful in the social than in the |  scientific fleld, Mr. Raadi hoped that the Secretariat  would review the whole question, with particular  reference to the social sciences.
(37) Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium) stressed that it was  important, whenever possible, to appoint social science  specialists to the Unesco Science Co-operation Offices.  Special attention should, he thought, be paid to the  effects of scientific studies on the social aspects of  various problems.  Establishment of Regional Social Science Centres in  Latin America (documents 9C/DR/48 and 9C/5, Cor-  rigendum 1, Annex, paragraphs 81 tô 102)
(38) The CHAIRMAN concluded that discussion of the  chapter on thé Department of Social Sciences had been  completed, and the Commission could consider the ….  various items that Had been held over, ' She opened  discussion ‘on the proposal for the éstabllshmerit of a  Social Science Faculty in Santiago, submitted by’the  delegation of Chilé ‘(document 9C/DR/48), and on the  proposal foi the establishment of à So¢lal Science. ~  Teaching and Research Centre in Rio de Janeiré : con-  tained in the Annéx to document 8C/6 Corrigendum 1  (paragraphs 81 to 102), She noted that the Director-  General had proposed, in document 8C/5 Corrigendum
4, a budgetary provision of $120, 000 for those two  Centres in 1958,   IV-20
(39) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) (Representative of the  Executive Board) read out the Executive Board's  recommendations for establishing’ centres for re-  search on and teaching of, the social sciences in Brazil  and Ontle (document s/s Addendum 1, paragraph 85).
(40) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) recalled -  that the plan for establishing thesd centres had been  “under consideration for à long time, had been examined  at meetings convened by | Unesco in Paris, New Delhi,  Damascus, San José (Costa Rica), and Rio'de Janeiro,  and had been discussed in artigles published in the  "Social Sciences Bulletin", It could therefore he dés-  cribed neither as an improvisation nor as a national  scheme: it was a Unesco project to which the Latin  American: countries concerned had rallied, It had  become cléar that Latin America hid to set up  machinery for scientific and technical collaboration,  and that it was in constant need of scientists to admini-  ster the machinery,  He said that the Rio de Janeiro Centre was to be as  broadly international as possible, * As‘tothe cost, the  Brazilian Government’ would contribute the same  amount as Unesco and Would supply the local staff,  The remaining third of the funds would probably be  provided by the other Latin American States, A meet-  ing would be held in Brazil in 1967 to work out the  Statutes and programme of the Centre, and to consider  what material facilities and experts were available,  Mr. Carneirô pointed out that thé estimates pre-  sented to thé Commission should not bé regarded as  final and that he would be pleased to receive any  suggestions designed to emphasize the iriternational  character of the Centre, provide for its financing by  contributions from all the Latin American countries,  and arrange for Unesco to take part in running it,  With regard to the last point, the Brazilian delegate  thought a Unesco staff member might serve on the  administrative board of the Centre, which was to be  five strong.  The purpose of ‘the Cenire, Mr, Carneiro explained,  was to act as a technical body for the co-ordination of  research carried out in various regions. It would  be able to supply research teams to ‘lñvestigate  general problems" such as migration, urbanisation and  the social ‘implications ot ecotiomnie problems.  The Brazilian delégate was sorry that the Director-  General's initial estimates for the two Latin American  . Centres had been halved by the deletion of the appro-  priations for 1657, despite the increase in the overall  budget figure. He hoped the Commission would bear  that in mind when stating its views on the two projects.  (Mr. Anas (Afghanistan) took the Chair)
(41) Mr. LAGOS (Chile); wished to speak briefly on  the éstiblishment of à Céntre.or Faculty for the  teaching. of | the Social Sciences, “iscusaed in para-  graphs 81 to 102 of the ‘Annex to document sc/5 ….  Corrigendum 1, ‘and, more particularly, on the Chilean  proposal (document 8C/DR/48). ‘He agreed with Mr,  “Carneiro that the proposal : for the establishment of the  Centre was a natural development of Unesco's ‘Social  Science programme and, at the same time, indicative  of the interest of the Latin American peoples in such  studies,  He added that for some time, at conferences,
414  PROGRAMME OOMMISBION  meetings of experts and seminars, Unesco had shows  particulér interest in promoting the social sciences :  in the Latin American countries,” which, on their aide,  had shown equal in{erest, The Social Sciences Sub.  Committee of the Chilean National Commission had .  been in direct contact with Unesco in order to prepare  the growid for the establishment of a Social Bojence  faculty or centre, and he wished to thank Mr. Servan  for the valuable assistance he had given at that time,  He then outlined the various stages in the establish-  ment of the Centre, . ;  In the first place, a programme had been sent to ….  Unesco but, in consequence of certain criticisms, the |  problem had been re-examined with the assistance of  Mr. Piters Huis, à sociologist working with the Chilean  National Commission. Their joint labours had resulted  in document 9C/DR/48, which was based on a thorough  study of the problem;  He explained that the object was to set up a regional  body of university standing in the Social Sciences for  the purpose of training teachers and research workers  and spreading information and teaching material on all  the branches of the Social Sciences,  As it had not been possible to start a centre for the  study of all branches of the social sciences, It was  decided that,’ at the outset, the Centre should confine  itself to sociology, ard for that reason the document  referred to the possible later expansion of the faculty,  He then proceeded to give a brief outline of the  structure of the faculty. * There would be a Council  consisting of représentatives of all the participating  countries; an Executive Committee whose Chairman  Chile would prefer to be of other than Chilean  nationality; and the Latin American School for’  Teachers ‘of Sociology, whose programme. would  be drawn up.by Unesco in agreement with the  participating Member Statés, Three basic courses  would be given, as stated on page & of the document  submitted by Chile,’  The School would also co- operate with Chilean  sociological institutions such as the Institute of  Sociology and the Natioräl School of Sociology.” ”  Mr, Lagos thought tha! the Centre would be able to  train 70 Latin American experts “within four ‘years, N  The speaker’ stéessed’ ‘the ‘contribution tô be made  by the Chilean Govérnnieiit and the University of Chile  to the financing of the Centres, suitable, premises {, for  the Centre, living accommodation for twenty telidw--  ship-holders, $20; 000 a year, frée médical and hos-  pital services, supplies of teaching ‘materials; and the  co-operation mos staff of the Institute of Sociology,  and the Nati Schobl of Sociology. ‘There were 15  téachers working in thé instituté of Séciology, and the  library. consisted of 40; 000 volumes, forming a éom-  plete collection which’ could be, used in the project,  Mr. Laÿés thought that the ‘establishment of ate-  glonal centre In Latin América would assis{ the _  studies of | all intérnational sociological centres, _ Its  programmé fitfed in with that of Unéscôts, Départient  of Social Sciences; K ‘had thé suPpo port of the entire  region énd required Unesco's ass stance only for a  transitional period of four ears, after which, it would  be able to develop independently,  He assured the meeting that the Unesco contribution  . would be ‘used solely for scientific ends, as the  administrative costs would be met by Chile and the  participating States.   PROGRAMME COMMISSION
(43) Mr. JORDANA DE POZAS (Spain) Was in favour  of thé proposal to establish two regional ceptres, as it  resulted from the combined influence of three factors:  the rfage of social development reached in Latin  America; ‘ the academic and scientific maturity of the  nations concerned, which had joined the world of re-  search 25 or 30 years after the discovery of the con-  tinént (there were now 125 universities in those coun-  “tries); and the outcome of the work of Unesco and the  Yational Commissions,  He considered that the well-conceived projects in  question, which had the support of the whole of Latin  America and the sympathy of all those belonging to  the same civilization, were the outcome of all the  above factors,  He felt that it was Unesco's responsibility to assist  in setting up centrés which would later become self-  supporting, and the Spanish delegation was therefore  happy to support and to second the projects under  discussion,
(43) Mr, vito (Italy) had already expressed hts  general appreciation of Unescots efforts to develop the  social sciences in all parts of the world; ‘ As Director  of the Regional Conference that had taken place in Rio  de Janeiro in March 1956 he regretted that his report  was not before thé meeting, but could say that all  present had been of the unanimous opinion that the  great social problems existing in Latin America  necessitated the acceleration of efforts to train social  scientists and to establish research centres in’ ‘that  region. He therefore supported. the two proposals  made. * Howéver, with respect to document 6C/DR/48,  he would prefer the use of thé word "Centre" rather  than "Faculty" as it was not possible to train teachers  without à background of research,’ ‘and the’emphasis  should be on research. Furthermore, experience in  Curope showed that the time was not yet ‘ripe for the  organization of international Faculties, On page 3 of  the document it was stated that the Dean would be  appointed by agreement between the Vice-Chancellor  of the University of Chile and Unesco, but he did not  think it was for Unesco to take responsibility in that  matter, It the proposal were adopted, a special Con-  ference would be convened, as outlined by the delegate  of Brazil, to determine the most rational structure  for the Centre.  (“) - Mr. FALARDEAU (Cariada) observed that the  project under discussion had been considered at  length by the Canadian delegation,” singe it came into  one of the main fields, of Unesco's’ work. | The Pro-  gramine Commission’ should, he thought, ‘stress  certain factors which were essential to the. sucess of  the scheme, It ‘should be emphasized that Tesponsibi-  lity for the projects should lie with the Latin Américan  countries themselves, and that Unesco's part was ,  merely. a ‘secondary one, Again, it was important to  state precisely what funds were to be provided by  .Unesco and the Latin ‘American countries respectively,  end hat form the help of the various ‘countries was
0  The Canadian delegate thought close links, at the  continental. level, should bé maintained between the  two Centres dealing, one with research, the other with  teaching. Subject to those reservations, the Canadian  delegation would vote for both projects.    convened every two years.  tv-20
(45) ‘Mr, BERTRAND (France) said his delegation:-  also regarded the problem as one of the most finpor-  tanf in the social sciences programme, He wished  to endorse the’ ¢omments made by various delegates,  including the delegate of Cariada, = Gererally speaking,  the French delégation was much in favour of the idea  of establishing the two Centres, but it was important,  in the best interéats both of the new Centres and of  Unesco, to state as clearly as possible in advance what  form of collaboration between the Centres and Unesco  would be most effective, © -  As to finance, the French delegate had noted Mr,  Carneiro's statement that Brazil would contributé one-  third of the cost of the Rio‘dé Janeiro Centre, and  another third would be supplied by the ‘othér Latin  American countries, so that Unesco's contribution  would not éxeeed a third of the total, © The Chilean  delegate did not appear to have given any similar  undertaking; according to the estimates, the Chilean  contribütion to the Santiago Centre’was to be only  $20,000, whèreas Unesco was to pay $46,000, It would  be good’ policy, Mr, Bertrand said, to ask the two  countries ‘mainly’ concerned, and the other Latin  American countries, to make a joint effort to guarantee  at least two-thirds of the total cost.  Mr, Bertrand thought, moreoever, that if Unesco was  to make a financial contribütion to the two Centres, | it  should also take an active part in'running them, He  did not share the Italian delegate's misglvings vegard-  ing the part Unesco might play in the appointment of  a Dean or Director for the Santiago ‘Centre. It should  be stated in the agreements between the two Contres  and Unesco that the régulations governing them were  fo be drawn up in consultafion, which would mean that  Unesco would co-operate in appointing the administra-  tive staff. In the case of the Rio de Janeiro Centre,  provision was made for a General Assembly to be  The French delegate thought  that too seldom, and suggested setting up a Steering  Committee of four to six members, including one  Unesco staff member.  The contracts between Unesco and the two Centres  should also, ‘Mr, Bertrand said, ‘contain precise indi-  cations about: (1) the ‘geographical origin of thie  specialists appointed to the Centres; and 2 the branches  of the social sciences ‘to be. represented. would be  natural for most of the members. of the ‘governing bodies,  and most of the advisers and research’ ‘workers to bé  Latin American experts; but, since the Centres were  to be international, a proportion of specialists from  other continerits should also be invited to serve in  them. With regerd, to the branches of the social .  sciences to be’ represented, Mr. Bertrand pointed out  that the ‘plans for the Rio de Janeiro Research Centre  made no mention’ of law; he thought the work of the  Centre would: suffer unless jurists were associated  with it from the outset. .  . It was important, when setting up. new ‘Centres, to  remember that their work should be co-ordinatéd  with that of elmilar centres sind Institutions already  in existence, sich as the Institute for Social Science  at Cologne, thi) International Research ‘Oftice on the  Social Implict.tions of Technological Change and the  Calcutta Reséarch Centre on the Social Implications  of Industrialization in Southern Asia. - . .  Mr, Bértrand hoped the contracts approved would  ‘specify that Unesco's aid to the two Centres was to be
416   IV-20 PROGRAMME COMMISEBION  temporary; : according to the stimates, they should  be able to manage without such asaistance four. ‘years  after being set up, On the other hand, the French  delegation would haye no objection to an immediate  statement to the effect that the - financial aid granted  by Unesco in 1956 would be maintained at a comparable  level for the following two years, ;  With regard to document 9C/DR/48, Mr. Bertrand  drew the Commission's attention to the wording of the  paragraph on the requirements for fellowsl.ip- -holders  (p. 7), section (f) of which read: "candidates should  be able to follow lectures given in English without  difficulty, and to read books in English and French",  That implied, he thought, that while candidates should  be able to read books in French, they would not be ex-  pected to follow lectures in French, which would rule  out the appointment of French teachers, He asked  that the point be put right.
(46) Mr, DIAZ- “GONZALEZ (Venezuela) agreed with  the remarks of preyious speakers regarding the es-  tablishment of the Social sclence centre in Chile. The  social sciences were ‘developing rapidly in Latin ,  America, and it would be most useful to receive help  from Unesco for social science studies,
(47). Mr, NANNETTI (Organization of Amerlcan ;  States) was very pleased to note the dnterest shown  by the American States in the social sciences, and to  know that Unesco was proposing to give them assis-  tance for the establishment of the two Centres. At  the stage of socia] development reached by the Latin  American countries they required the services of  experts to plan and supérvise the progress of their  social schemes,  The OAS had co-operated with Unesco at the Rio de  Janeiro and Costa Rica meetings, and was prepared  to co-operate also in securing the success of the  proposed Centres. Furthermore, he was {pwn to
15,47  Sociological Studies and the Indian Institute. From  conversations held with Unésco, it seemed that a  whole series of inatitules for sociological studies  were to be set up in Latin ‘America with the co-opera-  tion of Unesco and the OAS, He gave an assurance  thal the OAS was prepared to assist those countries  at the critical juncture when their peoples perhaps  stood in greatest need of such help.
(48) ‘Mr; MARQUIS. (unifiée Statés’ of America) sald  that his delegation Was’ highly interested in’ the déveiop-  ment of teaching of the social sciences, but had serious  doubts as’tc how that dlm might best be Accomplished.  In particular; it tett ‘that the Progradime Coramission  should be’ “careful fh 'determining what it méant by ah  International Cénire. There had already been much  discussion of the Cologne Centre, which had one type  of organization; ‘and it had Deed seen that the Calcutta  Centre had beer initiated with another;’ now there  was a proposal tor two more Centrés that’ would have  yet another type of organization. He agreed wilh’ the  views expréssed by the delegates of Italy, Canada and  France, ‘and thought that serious consideration should  be given to the extent of Unesco's ‘rééponsibility in  giving that type of aid.” He would support the request  for aid in those two cases; since it had been stated
416  specifically that Unesco's assistance was to be ol …  limited duration, being required for only four yours.  However, in discussing with the delegations of ,  Brazil and Chile the mechanism by which such aid  could be granted, he had found that, although the pro  posal with respect to Santiago, ‘Chile, could be in- :  serted under the Participation programme, there was  no resolution in the 1957-1958 programme that would.  cover the proposal relating to Brasil, . He therefore : :  thought that the double purpose of bringing those two  proposals within the programme, and of allowing for  further consideration of the points raised by the dele  gates of Italy, Canada and France, could be served by  amending resolution 3. 92 to include a reference to the  request of the Government of Brazil, and by adding a  paragraph to resolution 3,62, under the section deal-  ing with special activities in the development of teach-  ing of the social sciences, to cover the proposal of  the Government of Chile. He thought thai the Secre-  tariat had prepared draft texts in that respect which  would enable it, when the necessary budgetary provision  had been voted, to make grants-in-aid at such time as  it felt that all the necessary preparations had been  carried to a satisfactory stage.
(49) Mr, MARSHALL (Director, “Department of Social  Sciences) pointed gut that it had not been possible for  the Secretariat to prepare draft resolutions to cover  the two items in the normal way, as the proposals had  not been put forward as part of the Director-General's  programme for 1957- 1658, However, the Secretariat  had prepared certain amendments that would enable  those two projects to be fitted into the Department's  programme if the Commission so desired,
(50) Raising a point of order, Mr, SHEARMAN  (United Kingdom) asked whether the proposals of the  Brazilian and Chilean delegations were acceptable  under the rules laid down for the submission of new  draft resolutions,
(51) Mr. de BERREDO ‘CARNEIRO (Brazil) recalled  that the Executive Board, when examining document
9C/5 Corrigendum’l, had decided that,” though the  text had been prepared by the Director-General, it  would, if submitted by delegations to the Programme  Comimission, have the force of à proposal, Since the  Board had, moreover, approved the téxt, the  Brazilian proposal was perfectly in order,
(52). Mr. BERKELEŸ (Secrétarÿ) “then, read out the’  ‘following ‘amended text of resolution 3. 92, prepared  * by the Secretariat to “take : account of thé proposal  of the delegaté of Brazil, and the comments theréon  made dufing the discussions of the Commission:  "The Director-General is authorized:  TA) “to continue, in co-operation with the United  Nations and other Specialized Agencies, to provide  advice and, assistance to Member States and inter- ~  national’ organizations in bringing the resources of ‘  social science to bear upon the solution of basic pro-  blems arisirig from technological change and indus-  trialization;  (B) to participate, at the ‘request of Mémbèr States,  in the ¢orduct of basic studies and research ‘of thé -  social and cultural aspects of téchnological changè and  industrialization, and in particular to participate, at   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  thé request of the Government of Brasil, in the esta-  lishment and operation of a Latin American Centre  for research in the above field; and  "(C) to participate, at the request of the Government  of India, in the development of the Research Centre on  the Social Implications of Industrialization in Southern  Asia",
89) Mr,  . fy ur. warmly approved the project for the Chile  Centre, and was in favour of its being established in  that country, -  He agreed with the proposal of the Italian and Cana-  dian delegates that the new institution should be a  centre, rather than a faculty; but disagreed with the  remarks of the delegate of France on the financial  aspect of the scheme. He wished to explain that Chile,  in addition to its annual contribution of $20, 000, would  also be responsible for the cost of premises, equipment  and administration. He was against the United States  delegate's proposal which, he thought, had no rele-  vance to the establishment of the Centre in Chile; and  which, he feared, would merely delay the establish-  ment of that Centre, in which over 20 countries were  interested. He asked the Commission to approve the  project presented by the Director-General, together  with the budget appropriations requested for the  purpose,  MARTINEZ COBO (Ecuador) stated that his
(54) Mr, BERKELEY (Secretary) then read out the  text which it was proposed to add to paragraph (D) of  resolution 3, 52 to take account of the proposal of  the delegation of Chile:  "(D) by participating ,.,. and more particularly  by participating, at the request of the Government of  Chile, in the organization and operation of a Latin  American Faculty of Social Science, to be established  at Santiago, Chile."
(55) "Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) thought it  would be advisable to append a recommendation con-  cerning thé funds to be earmarked for the implementa-  tion of that decision. ' If he had understood the  Director-General's proposals aright, the sum of  $120, 000 proposed for 1958 was to be divided between  the two Centres, in Chile and Brazil.
(56) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) said  that was in fact the position.
(57) Mr. LAGOS (Chile) thought the ‘proposal put for-  ward by the United States delegate was one of form  only, its purpose ‘being to inélude the project in the
1957-1958 programme. He therefore saw no objec-  -tion to accepting that proposal, provided it was clear  that the sum of $120, 000 was to be divided up, He  accepted that proposal in order that it might be élear  that the two Centres were closely connected and had to  work together.
(58) Mr, JOCHAMOWITZ (Réru) said that Unesco  - had originally ‘consideréd organizing a centre in Lima  in'view of the fact that the’ University of San Marcos  was à very ancient one; bit, since the Government  had not shown sufficient’ intorest in the Unesco project,  at that time, Unesco had decided to set up the Centre  in Rio de Janeiro. He was sorry it had not been
417  IV-20  possible to establish it in his own country, but he was  pleased to think that‘Latin America was to have two  social science centres, and assured the meeting that  the existing Government of his country would do its  best to ensure that there was no duplication in the  subjects studied,
(59) Mr, FATONE (Argentina) endorsed the proposed  project, Since the previous speakers had gone thor-  oughly into the matter, ne would : zifine himself to ex-  pressing his satisfaction at th”, establishment of the two  Centres.
(60) Mr, WEEDEN (Australe) expressed the great  interest of his delegation in th} two proposals under  discussion, He assumed,. frou the texts read by  the Secretary, that it was proposed to finance those  projects under the Participation programme, and that  the conditions of that programme would therefore  apply. In view of the remarks made by several dele-  gates, he also assumed that there was nothing in  either proposal that prevented teaching being under-  taken at the Brazil Centre or research being carried  out at the Chilean Centre. He welcomed the assurances  given that Unesco's financial assistance would be re-  quired only for an initial period of four years, He  wondered, however, whether acceptance. of the pro-  posals did not carry an implication that the Director-  General would always feel justified in putting forward  proposals made to him by a group of Member States.
(61) Mr. SHEARMAN (United Kingdom), feared that, the  Commission was being rushed into a decision, and,  wondered whether the two pr ojects had beñh prepared  sufficiently thoroughly to ensure their success. He,  too, had been thinking of the discussion concerning the  Cologne Institute, during which it had become apparent  that the Organization would have to bolster up an In-  stitute that had been launched without sufficient fére-  thought, He ‘hoped that the two new Centres would be  established in à practical and manageable form, and  would not become a lability to Unesco, ‘and he agre ‘eed  ded to set up new or  as part of a stud wor international programme, ; He had  been inipresséd by the arguments of the speakers in  favour of the proposals, but would have felt more re-  assured if the projects had been more thoroughly pre-  pared by the Director of the Department.
(62) Mr. $SECCO ELLAURI (Uruguay) said he would  vote for the project,” w which inyolyed the, [expenditure of  $120, "000, because considered it one of the most  important the, Co: mission haë adopted and thought it  would benefit Unesco, In'the first place, it had been  studied and worked out in detail, whtéh’ was essential  in the case of a project of sich importance. “It had  been’ ‘examined ‘at various ‘éémlifars ‘and meetings as  well as by thé Seérétäriat/ añd he failed tô understand  how any ‘delegate ‘could ‘object to it ‘on’thé grounds that  it had not been | gone into i ioroughly enough, 1913 might  be criticized" on its intrinsic merits, but éould‘not  be said to have been insufficiently discussed; Secondly,  the project: appeared to bé based’ ‘rather on the eiforts .  of the States proposing it than on aid from Unesco,” which  would bear out the maxim "Uneséo helps thosé that help  themselves", Thirdly, it came tinder one of the most,              Iv-20 PROGRAMME  important parts of Unesco's programme, Social  Sciences; "a field in which the South Amorican States  were very. backward, Moreover, the project was  international in its aims and objects. -  The speaker went oa to comment on the statements  made at the meeting. He agreed with the Italian dele-  gate's proposal to establish a centre rather than a  faculty. . : He did not think Chile should refuse to supply  the Director of the Centre; the administration of the  Centre should hot necessarily be international, al-  though the Centre itself should, With regard to the  French comments on the question of languages, Mr.  Secco Ellauri thought French and English should be on  an equal footing, since there were some Latin  American countries where French had a more impor-  tant place than English, The failure to use French  might put some candidates at a disadvantage.
(63) Mr. MARSHALL (Direc tor, Department of  Social Sciences) said that the proposals in question  had, in fact, been carefully considered and prepared  over a long period; they fittéd into’ Unesco's pro-  gramme for teaching and research in social science,  and the necessary co-ordinating machinery existed.  Unesco's participation was to be temporary and had  been fixed at a duration of four years. With regard  to the distribution of the provision of $120, 000 between  the two projects, the Secrétariat would be prepared  to reduce its requirements for staff to $12,000, as  the project was not to be initiated until 1858, and a  sum of $48, 000 should be sufficient to provide three  professors and 10 fellowships for the Chilean Centre  for one year. . That would leave a sum of $60, 000 to  be allocated to the Brazilian Centre,
(64) Mr. MARQUIS (United States of America) moved  adoption of the amended téxts of resolutions 3,62 and
3.92 presented by the Secretary, with the proviso that,  of the budgetary provision of $120, 000 for the two  additional proposals, a percentage to be determined  by the Department of Social Sciences should bè re-  tained for additional staff costs, and thé remainder  allocated to the Participation programme, He did  not think the Commission was in possession of suf-  ficient information regarding the development of plans  for the Centres to commit a specific sum to either  project.
(65) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) was  somewhat at a loss to unders the proposal of the  United States delegate, The Brazilian and Chilean  delegations had agreed that the Programme Commis-  sion should not {tself be responsible for sharing out  the sum of $120, 000 between the two centres: {nat  would be done by the Sécretariat at a later stage.  But Mr. -Carnelro emphasized that it was essential  for them to have some assurance about the overall sum,  if only to enable the Governments of Brazil and Chile  to make arrangements for their own contributions.  The Brazilian delegate agreed with the spirit of the  proposals put forward by the delegates of Spain,  Canada, Italy and France, and shared the views of  the Canadian and French delegates on the specific  points they had raised, * He thought it would be possible  to include the question of the running of the Centres  in the agenda of the meeting to be held at Rio de  Janeiro in April 1957.    COMMISSION
(66) Mr, LAGOS (Chile) agreed with what Mr. de  Berredo Carneiro had said about stating clearly what  sum was to be allocated {o.the two Centres, even  it the’ ‘allocation could not be made at.the moment, The  Chilean dulégation saw no objection to setting up a  centre rather than a faculty, as the delegates of Hay  and Uruguay had requested,  With regard to the French delegate's remarks about  the languages to be used for the courses; he did not  think there had been any error but that, perhaps because  all university students in Chile spoke French rather  than English, the authors of the text had simply for-  gotten to mention French specifically, He therefore  accepted the French delegate's proposal. In reply  to the French delegate’s other comment, he said that  the Chilean Government, in addition to making an  annual contribution of $20, 000, would also provide  premises, accommodation, equipment ete, which  would greatly increase its actual contribution.
(67) Mr. VITO (Italy) thought that, in the light of the  remarks of the delegate of Chile, the Commission  could adopt his proposal to replace the word "Faculty"  by "Centre".  Agreed.
(68) Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) requested and received  an assurance that the Chilean Centre would nevertheless  be attached to the University of Santiago, and would rot,  therefore, be liable to the heavy overheads noted at the  Cologne Institute,
(68) Upon a vote being taken, the amended text of  resolution 3.52 was adopted unanimo.:sly, with two  abstentions,  “ (10) The amended text of resolution 3.92 was then put  to the vote and adopted unanimously, with one abstention,
(71) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) formally  proposed that the Commission approve the Director-  General's suggestion to allocate $120, 000 for financing  the two Centres in 1958. In the meantime, the  Secretariat would be able to see whether the countries  concerned had met their commitments with regard to  the part they were to play in the operation of the Centres.
(72) Mr. BERTRAND (France) understood that certain  delegatds took the view that the overall sum of  $120, 000 could be approved only on the understanding  that Unesco's initial contribution would not exceed  one-third of the total funds to be made available to  each of the two Centres for 1958, and that the general  conditions for collaboration between Unesco and those  Centres were clearly defined. As regarded ‘those con-  ditions, the French delegation was confident that the  Director-General would not allot the funds in question  until appropriate contracts had been concluded between  Unesco and the two Centres. Without wishing to be  discourteous to anyone, the French delegate insisted  that it should be clearly specified that the voté about  to be taken would commit Unesco to provide funds only  on condition that the Organization's ‘contribution did  not exceed one-third of the total sum involved,
418   PROGRAMME  consider the French delegate)s attitude in any wey  discourteous, but found the condition stipulated un-  precedented. It was for the institutions concerned to  sign a contract with Unesco, and Unesco would judge  whether the requisite conditions were or were not met;  any conditions laid down distinct from such a contract  would be deeply offensive and moreover contrary to  usual practice,
(14) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) was  sure the Rapporteur would give a faithful account of  the spirit in which the discussion had taken place.  Apart from that, the discussions would be reported in  the minutes, so that the French delegate's request  would be met in two ways, . .  The Assistant Director-General agreed with the  United States delegate that a proportion of the $120, 000  should be set aside for staff costs; in any gase, the  Secretariat estimates in document 9C/5 Corrigendum1  allowed for that to be done, Furthermore, he thought  that, as proposed, the total of $120, 000 should be  voted for the two Centres, the subsequent distribution  of those funds being left to the Secretariat, which  could always arrange for sums to be transferred from  one Centre to another,
(15) Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) expressed his anxiety  that all sums included in the budget should bé available  for spending during the financial period in question.  If, for instance, anything happened to delay the esta-  blishment of either the Brazilian Centre or the Chilean  COMMISSION     IV-21  Centre, he would wish the Director-General to be  able to use the funds earmarked for those projects for  other items, within the Participation programme, He  would therefore suggest that some provision such as  ",.. funds up to the level of $120,000" be made in the  budgetary proposals for those projects.
(76) Mr, BERTRAND (France) said that, after hearing  the technical explanations given by the Assistant.  Director-General, and the speech of the Australian  delegate, he was prepared to endorse the latter's  proposal, He repeated that his remarks had been in-  tended solely in the interests of Unesco and of the two  proposed Centres, and he thanked Mr, Carneiro for  having taken them in the spirit in which they were  intended.
(77) Mr, MARQUIS (United States of America) agreed  that the Secretariat should word the budgetary pro-  posals for the two projects on the lines suggested by  the Assistant Direttor-General,
(78) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  said that the Australia: delegate's suggestion was in  accordance with current budgetary practice,  The meeting rose at 9.50 p.m.  TWENTY - FIRST MEETING
27 November 1956, at 9.55 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. BARRIOS DUARTE (Nicaragua)  later: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)  {l) The CHAIRMAN called on Mr. Chase, of the  Bureau of Programme and Budget to describe the  budgetary position in the light of the decisions already  taken by the Commission.  {2) Mr. CHASE (Bureau of Programme ‘and Budget)  informed the Commission that the recommendations it  had adopted so far had the following budgetary impli-  cations: “an increase of $166, 000 for 1957-1058 for  Social Sciences as compared with the figures given  in the Proposed Programme and Budget (document
9C/8 and Corrigendum 1) and an increase of $27, 500  for Cultural Activities. The total increase over the  Director-General's proposals so far was therefore  $193,500 which represented almost 20 per cent of the  increase of $1,000,000 voted by the plenary Conference.  (Mrs, Myrdal (Sweden) took the Chair).
(3) The CHAIRMAN said that the Tunisian delegate    had asked to take part in the discussions of Working  Party No. 6, which was meeting that morning.  Furthermore it had been suggested that the delegate  of New Zealand on the Working Party be replaced by  the Australian delegate.  Agreed,  ITEM 9.4 OF THE AGENDA : CULTUML ACTIVITIES (continued)  (documents 9C/6 and Addenda and Corrigenda)
4.7 Culture and International Understanding (continued)  (paragraphs 218 to 236 and document 9C/DR/72)
(4) The CHAIRMAN invited the Commission to resume  its consideration of project 4,731 - Translation of  representative works.
(5) Mr. KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist