IV-14  maturity to warrant the allocation of additional funds,  The Director-General nevertheless attached great  importance to that aspect of the programme and would  appreciate suggestions which would help him in drawing  PROGRAMME COMMISSION  up a programme that the delegates to the next session of ihe  General Conference would be able to approye unanimowsly,  The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m.  FOURTEENTH MEETING
22 November 1856, at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)  ITEM 0.5 OF THE AGENDA : MARS COMMUNICATION (continued)  (documents 9C/6 and Addenda and Corrigenda, documents 9C/PRGY 13,
16 and 17 and SC/DR/D, 45, 7, ‘TO, 95 and 119)
5.1 - Free Flow of Information (paragraphs 13 to 51)
(1) Introducing thé section, Mr, GJESDAL (Director,  Department of Mass Communication) pointed out that  the work plans under project 5. 121 fell into three  parts: (1) international agréements; (3) proposals  submitted to international conferences; and (3) publica-  tion of studies. - He then outlined the main points in  the section and drew the Commission's attention to  proposed new activities.
(3) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanai) regarded the section as  a model of the kind of internationdl sétlon that Unesco  should develop and promote. | , Where measures for  facilitating the free | flow of information were ‘concerned,  he was convinced that Unesco could do much more |  than securing signatures to agreements,’ drawing up  reports and carr ‘out studies: the experience  acquired by the Secretariat o over a term of years  should render it capable, ‘at the stage reached, of  taking the initiative and contemplating direct partici-  pation by Unesco in the Adtivitles ‘of suitable inter-  national organizations concerned with mass communi-  cation, undér a plan of combined action for the pro-  motion of international understanding. a  As for studies of pro lems ‘affecting the free t ow  of information, there too collaboration between Unesco  and the appropriate organisations was necessary at  the research was expected to yield practical results,  Regarding the commitiee of government, experts  proposed in paragraph 23 of document 9C/PRG/12, it  would, in his opinion, be sound to expand it by send-  ing invitations to representatives of the appropriate  international non-governmental organizations and of  the Specialised Agencies of the United Nations.  As the task which fell to the Department of Mass  Communication in that sphere was world-wide in  scope, Mgr Maroun urged that the Commission ask  the Secretariat to seek the maximum co-ordination  of its efforts with those of the institutions listed in  document 0C/S from page 130 onwards,   (3) Referring to paragraph 23 and to document
9C/PRG/12, concerning proposed international regu-  lations for the free movement of persons, Mr. ‘AVIDOR  “ (Israel) wished to bring to the Commission's atien-  tion a matter which his delegatioii considered to be  very serious, On 5 May 1956; thé Diréctor-Geiersl  had sent out à ciréular letter, CL/1100; “fofgether +  with an annex containing replies of Member Stated  regarding facilities’ which they intended to grint for  the free movement of persons engaged in educational,  scientific or cultural activities. “Thé Israeli National  Commission had been very concernéd to see in the  reply of the Government of Jordan a Statement to the  effect that it was prepared to grant such facilities to  Unesco personnel "providéd that they are not Jews",  Similarly, Lebanon had replied in more general terms  that "such facilities shall not be extended to persons  of the Jewish faith", |  Such a blatant manifestation ‘of rellgiois and racial  discrimination had greatly grieved the Israel National  Commission, but it had been even more distressed to .  see such statements ‘published In én officiil document,  without any appropriate dlsavows) b y the Director:  General, Mr, ‘Avidor had wnitten to | the Directér-  General on 30 May idse, ‘atating that the Israe  National Commission registered à protest ‘gains!’  such open, ‘discrimination against Jews and deeply re:  greited that such siatements should have been pub’ '  lished without ‘suitable comment in sn official Unésco  document. The National Commiss{on requested’ the  Director-General to ‘bring the matter. before the  Executive Board. In a letter dated 17 Septerber
1956, the Director-General had replied that he had  submitted the Israeli protest fo the Board at a secret  meeting held during its 44th'session. The Board.  had decided to ask Jordan and Lebanon for additional  information, ‘The Director-General had concluded:  "I will keep you informed of any | further, action taken  in this matter," Having received no ‘communication  from the Director-General since. that date, Mr, Avidor  would be glad to hear from the Secretariat. whether  there had been further developments. ,  In conclusion, Mr. Avidor reiterated his Govern-  ment's protest against the publication of such state-  ments by Unesco, and requested that the protest be  recorded in the Programme Commission's report.  to the General Conference. Lastly, he explained:  that his delegation had not deemed it appropriate to   PROGRAMME COMMISSION IV-14  present à draft resolution on the subject of racial or  religious discrimination, considering that it would  be redundant, since all forma of disérimination were  already condemned in Unesco s Constitution,
(4) Mr, SCOTT (United States of America) announced  that the Unitéd States National Commission, at its  meeting in September, had devoted particular atten-  tion to the question of religious discrimination and  had cited satisfaction the provisions of Unesco's  i endorsing the principles of human rights  and fundamental freedoms, The National Commission  ‘had condemned all restrictions on freedom of travel  for persons engaged in educationsl, scientific and  cultural activities and all discriminatory practices,  which should not be allowed to restrict the acaignment  of Unesco personnel,  Mr. Scott declared the adherence of the United  States to the principles proclaimed in Unesco's  - Constitution. Religious discrimination constituted a  violation, not only of that Constitution, but also of  the United Nations Charter and the Universal Declara-  tion of Human: Rights,  {5} Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) was sorry to se” ihe  Programme Commission - the task of whirn was to  study document 8C/6 from the technical angle - turn-  ing into a political platform, It was also regrettable  that certain members of the’Commission had not  inquired about the negotiations conducted by the  Director-General on that specifié point before making  _ free with their accusations,  ' He could assure the Commission that not the sligh-  test trace of discrimination was discernible in -  Lebanese policy While his Government's replies to  the circular letter in question had initially displayed  sn attitude of reserve in certain respects, all doubts  had been removed by the subsequent negotiations bet-  ween the Lebanese Government on the oné hand and  the Director-General and the Executive Board on the  ober, snd the original misunderstanding no longer  existed,
(8) The CHAIRMAN ruled that the statement made by  the delegate of Israel, having a direct bearing on  paragraph 23 and document 9C/PRG/12, was in  order, She hoped, however, that the ensuing dis-  cussion would be as brief as possible.  Mm Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Dirgctor-General),  wiswering the Israeli delegate, confirmed that the  Ézécutive Board had taken up thé quéstion at its 43rd  session and had instructed the Diréctor- General to  seek additional information from the two govern-  ments in question. The Lebanese reply had reached  ‘the Secretariat a few weeks previously and the  ‘Director-General would be reporting to the Board  during its current session.  "Regarding the regrets éxpressed by the Israeli  délegate at official’ circulation of thé replies of  Lebanon and Jordan without comment and through the  Director-General, Mr, Thomas explained that the  Executive Board had also dealt with that matter and  - its finding was that the Director-General had acted  “ strictly within the terms of the relevant resolution  adopted at Montevideo.
(8) Mr, ANAS (Afghanistan) asked if Unesco had  studied the question of radio reception conditions  in the different regions. Some disturbances were  caused by atmospherics but others were created  artificially. Such disturbances were obstacles to  the free reception of radio broadcasts and the pro-  blem was therefore an appropriate one for Unesco  to study.
(9) The CHAIRMAN invited the representative of  the World. Jewish Congress to address the meeting.
(10) Mr. STEINBERG (World Jewish Congress) was  grateful to the Commission for giving him an oppor-  tunity to speak on sn important point which had a  direct bearing on paragraph 23 of the Mass Communi-  cation chapter and document 9C/PRG/12, - Section III  of the latter document referred to the Director-  General's proposal to convene a meeting of experts  in 1957-1058 (paragraph 23) to prepare a preliminary  draft recommendation to Member States on the free  movement of persons engaged in educational, : scien-  tific and cultural activities. During the preliminary  inquiry on facilities which might be granted to such  persons, two States had replied In a manner incom-  patible with the principles of Unesco's Constitution,  Their replies had included statements of an openly  discriminatory character against Jews all over the  world, As a good "Unescan" and representative  of the World Jewish Congress, which had béen an  active supporter of Unesco {rom. the very beginning,  Mr. Steinberg realized the Secretariat's difficulties,  but appealed to the Director-General and to the  General Conference to do all in their power to keep  the island of Unesco intact in a troubled world and  to make it an impregnable fortress of human rights  and fundamental freedoms,  In conclusion, he suggested that the proposed regu-  lations contain a separate clause,’ to the effect that  they should be applied without discrimination of sex,  race or religion, Although'such a clause might  appear redundant, since it repeated a principle which  ought to be taken for granted, it was a fact that,  while the principle might be accepted in one part of  ‘the world, in others it was still obscured by a cloud  of unenlightened prejudice.
(11) Mr. BROCKINGTON (Canada) asked if the  Commissiori would receive a further report from  the Director-General, either at the current or at  some future meeting, on the point raised by the  delegate of Israel, He thought it difficult for  delegates to form any judgement in the matter without  additional information,
(12) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that the question sppeared on the agenda  of the current sessior of the Board, though it had  not yet come up for discussion. .
(13) Mrs. WADIA (tnata) said that the Indian delé-  gation supported thé statement made by the delegate  of the United States of America.’ in accordance with  the principles proclaimed in Uneaco's Constitution,  the United Nations Charter and the Universal °  Declaration of Human Rights, Unesco should do its  utmost to eliminate all the forms of discrimination .  separating man from man.
(14) Mr. KATETOV (Czechoslovakia) said that the  Czechoslovak delegation thought the work done by the  Secretariat for the free flow of informe tion was ex-  tremely useful; and they were most favourably im-  pressed by the proposals set out in document
9C/PRG/16. The agreéments mentioned would un-  doubtedly make a great contribution to the improve-  ment of international co-operation, and the delegation  therefore thought it desirable that they should be  brought into force as quickly as possible, In con-  nexion with the fact that some of the agreements en-  umerated in document 9C/PRG/16 had not been ratified  or signed by more than a few Member States, Mr,  Katetov remarked that the implementation of the pro-  posals set forth in that document brought up a series  of most complicated problems which would have to be  dealt with one by one. It was therefore essential  that Member States should have time to study them  carefully,  The Czechoslovak delegation wished to move a  number of amendments to the draft resolution con-  tained in paragraph 6 of document 9C/PRG/16, In it  "Information" was used in the broadest sense, but it  was essential to bear in mind that there was a whole  sector of information services which, far from assis-  ting in spreading truth, on the contrary constituted a  source of lying propaganda and actively worked against  international understanding.  He reminded the Commission that there were a  number of international organizations dealing with  broadcasting questions, and drew attention, in par-  ticular, to the work of the International Broadcasting  Organization which was co-operating with Unesco.  Unesço should establish the closest possible co-opera-  tion with those organizations, placing them on the  same footing as the International Broadcasting  Organization, |  In conclusion he felt that the remarks of the Israeli  delegate were out of place: the existing international  situation was extremely grave and the incident of which  Israel was complaining was indeed insignificant in  comparison with the aggression of which Israel itself  had been guilty against Egypt.
(15) Mr. EL-ATTRACHE (Syria) regretted the absence  of the delegate of Jordan, However, the accusation  levelled against Jordan constituted just as much of an  attack on all the remairing Arab countries, It was  nauseating that anyone should dare to accuse the Arabs  of taking discriminatory measures against the Jews  when the source of all the difficulties arising in the  Middle East was Zionism, He vehemently denied the  charge made and further asked that the Commission  decline to consider the draft resolution (paragraph
6 in document 9C/PRG/16) on the grounds of its ob-  viously political implications.
(16) The CHAIRMAN regretted that she was obliged  to rule the remarks of the delegate of Syria out of  order, since the point raised by the delegate of Israel  had been referred to the Fxecutive Board and there  was no reason to discuss it further in the Commission.  She urged delegates to confine their comments to  programme matters,
(17) Mr, HAMILTON (British Caribbean Group)  thought that the free movement of persons was a
372  PROORAMME COMMISSION  problem to be solved by governments rather than  by experts, It would therefore be more suitable for  Unesco to negotiate on the subject with governments  than to call a meeting of experts.  Referring to paragraph 33 of document 9C/6, Mr,  Hamilton hoped that Unesco would also enter into  contact with the Caribbean Commission, since the  British Caribbean Group was not covered by the  Economic Commission for Latin America. Unesco,  as the "conscience of the nations", could not afford  to neglect the members of that Group, who were fast  becoming a nation.
(18) Mr. ERIKSSON (Sweden) thought that the Com-  mission had reached the stage when it could recom.  mend approval of the action proposed by the Director-  General In Section III of document 9C/PRG/12, As  there was no resolution covering the subject com-  pletely in document 9C/5, the delegate of Sweden  wished to draw attention to the joint resolution sub-  mitted by Denmark, Norway, Finland and Sweden in  document 9C/DR/95, although the General Committee  had decided that it could not be submitted officlally  to the Programme Commission,  . (19) Mr, NAPOLITANO (Italy), recalling some of  the things said at the last meeting, hoped that jour-  nalists would not be forgotten in the list of persons  engaged in educational, scientific or cultural activities,
(20) Mr, -RICHNER (Switzerland) said that his country  attached the utmost importance to the Agreement on  thv Importation of Educational, Scientific and Cultural  Matirials; he hoped the Director-General would  circulate au 277201 ta thnes Membr States which  had not yet acceded to that agreement.
(21) Mr. BURNS (New Zealand) stated that his dele-  gation viewed with great concern the various pro-  visions for staff travel to attend conferences and  meetings. He asked the Director of the Department  to consider very seriously whether such attendance  was of sufficient value to Unesco to justify the ex-  penditure of the money and staff time involved,  Referring to paragraph 31, he asked if it would not  be more appropriate for the study concerned to be  undertaken by the Copyright Division of the Depart-  ment of Cultural Activities,
(22) Replying to the various questions raised, Mr.  GJESDAL (Director, ‘Department of Mass Communi-  cation) observed that the delegate of Lebanon had  raised a very important point, namely, how far  Unesco should go in {ts co-operation with other or-  ganizations in the field of the free flow of information.  Unesco had to take great care when moving Into areas  Within the jurisdiction’ ‘of other organizations, “but it  was co-operating actively with the Universal Postal  Union, the International Telecommunication Union,  the Internationat Labour Organisation, etc. The  Constitutions of those bodies required ‘that matters  brought before their general conferences be raised  by their Member States and not by a sister organi-  zation; Unesco cherefore adopted the method of °  asking its own Member States to bring up points  through their representatives on other organinations.  Co-operation on those lines had been stretched as   PROGRAMME  far as possible and Unesco's initiatives were being  welcomed by sister organizations,  To the delegate of Afghanistan, Mr, Gjesdal replied  that, although disturbances in radio reception came  within the purview of the International Telecommunica-  tion Union, Unesco might suggest an inquiry into such  technical impediments within the broader framework  of the proposed study of radio broadcasting problems,  With regard to the amendments proposed by  Czechoslovakia in document 9C/DR/87, Mr, Gjesdal  had no particular opinion to express, He thought,  however, that Member States might be more likely, to  take action if the General Conference approved, rather  than simply took note of, the suggestions in document
9C/PRG/16.  Replying to the representative of the British Carib-  bean Group, Mr. Gjesdal explained that the word  “experts” in paragraph 23 of document 9C/6 meant  government experts. ’With regard to the second  point, the Secretariat would be very glad to secure in-  formation on the position in the Caribbean area.  Mr, Gjesdal welcomed the joint resolution submit -  ted in document 9C/DR/95, which was more explicit  than document 9C/5 on the subject of action to be  taken by the Director-General, However, he sup-  posed that it would be sufficient if paragraph 23 of  the Mass Communication chapter, including an es-  timate of $4, 100 for delegates! travel, were approved,  To the delegate of Italy, Mr, Gjesdai said that he  would welcome the inclusion of journalists among the  persons to be granted facilities.  He pointed out to the delegate of New Zealand that  the total travel provision had been reduced by $20, 00.  Travel resources would thus be so limited that jour-  neys would have to be very systematically planned,  "The copyright study mentioned in paragraph 31 had  been allotted to the Department of Mass Communica-  tion because it was in direct contact with news and  information enterprises; it would, however, naturally  work on the project in close co-operation with the  Copyright Division,
(33) Mr, TERROU (France) thought it would be well  to guard against a possible misunderstanding regard-  ing the notion of copyright in the "news" context, The  reason why the Secretariat was being asked to concern  itself with the matter was that news was not protec-  ted under existing national copyright. laws,  Allpress  undertakings were anxious to have the ‘problem settled.  The French delegation supported all the draft reso-  lutions contained in document 9C/PRG/16, It was  the readier to approve the Czechoslovak proposal in  that the draft convention on freedom of information  . in fact dealt with the right of correction. It was the  duty of all States to help to make information factual  by becoming party to that convention, which had been  open for their signature since 1950,
(24) Referring to paragraph 23, document 9C/PRG/12,  and to document 9C/DR/95, Mr. HARDY (United  States of America) noted that no specific resolution  was before the Commission, His delegation did not  consider that such a meeting of experts would be  useful,  The United States ‘delegation had reservations re-  garding the precise meaning of document 9C/PRG/16,  and proposed that the Commission should not attempt
373     COMMISSION IV-14  to give blanket approval, but should merely take note  of ‘the proposals contained therein, recommending  that they be reférred to tho Executive Board,  Referring to the amendment to draft resolution
5.11 proposed by the Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lies in document $C/DR/70, Mr, Hardy recalled that  a similar resolution had been presented in Montévideo,  In the opinion of his delegation, it would be better to  stress the positive, rather than the negative, aspects  of action to be taken by Unéäco, He therefore sub-  mitted the following amendment to the Soviet pro-  posal in document 8C/DR/70,  In the fourth and fifth lines of the first paragraph,  after "and bearing in mind the", the words "impor-  tant results of the correct use of mass communica-  tion media" would be deleted and replaced by "impor--  tance of a free flow of information",  The second paragraph would be deleted and replaced  by: "Urges Member States to further the free flow of  information by all available means to promote the  objectives of Unesco's Constitution,"
(25) Mr. CHELYSHEV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics), commenting on the two paragraphs which  the delegation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics  sought to add to resolution 5.11, said that an immense  amount of work was being done in his country to  acquaint the Soviet peoples with the life.of other  peoples through the press, broadcasting, translations  of literature, etc, He reminded the Commission  that it was not the first time that the Soviet delegation  had made a proposal to the Conference for sucha  clarification of the concept of free flow of information,  It was unthinkable that tendentious information should  have the advantage of the same freedom as truthful  information which aided international understanding.  In the amendment proposed by the Soviet delegation  he saw nothing negative: on the contrary, condemna-  tion of aggressive propaganda was a positive measure,
(26) Sir Richard BOYER (Australia) supported the  United States amendment very warmly, . His delegation  welcomed the resolution because it was Unesco's duty  to take a stand against any attempts to. impede. the free  flow of information from country to, country. . Radio,  which was one of the most effective media of com-  munication, in wartimé inevitably became an instru-  ment of war, but, in peace time, it seemed deplorable  that there should be deliberate jamming of broadcasts.  Australia jammed no broadcasts, believing that it was  the best thing for the human family to have the freest  possible flow of information, whatever its nature, In  the tong run, truth would conquer, if it had the right  of way.
(27) Miss FIELD (United Kingdom) agreed with the  United States delegation that Unesco should not con-  demn thing, but should rather seek positive solu-  tions. Her delegation therefore supported the  amendment,
(28) Mr, LYNKOV (Byelorussian. Soviet Socialist  Republic) recalled that à number of delegations, in-  cluding those of India, the United Statés of America  and the Union of Soviet Socialist-Republics, had  _ tabled a draft resolution at Montevideo un the use of  the media of mass communication for the advancement   IV-14 PROGRAMME  of international understanding, For that he con-  sidered a free flow of information essential, Un-  fortunately, as things stood, objective information  was often replaced by propaganda, The draft amend-  ment submitted by the delegation of the Soviet Union  aimed at the condemnation of tendentious information  used to justify or to prepare for acts of aggression,  The Byelorussian delegation supported the Russian  draft amendment and considered the changes proposed  by the delegation of the United States of America un-  acceptable; they also asked that the proposed changes  be circulated in writing.
(20) Mr, WEEDEN (Australia) agreed with the United  States delegate that the meeting of experts proposed  in paragraph 23 was not practical, Be therefore  moved that the work plan be amended and the estimate  of $4, 100 for delegates’ travel be deleted,
(30) The above motion was seconded by Mr, BURNS  (New Zealand),
(31) The CHAIRMAN requested the Commission to  vote on the various items. The vote on resolution
5.11 would be postponed until the United States  amendment to the Soviet proposal to add a second  paragraph to that draft resolution hal been circulated  in writing.
(32) Resolution 5.12 was unanimously approved.
(33) Paragraph 19 on page 138 of document 9C/5,  and the resolution on page 3 of document 9C/PRG/17,  were approved without opposition, with one abstention,
(34) Referring to paragraph 23, Mr. GJESDAL  (Director, Department of Mass Communication) asked  the delegate of Australia whether his motion implied  that all work on the subject should cease,
(35) Mr, WEEDEN (Australia) replied that his dele-  gation would agrée to à continuation ‘of thé inquiry, if  the Director-General deemed it desirable, but pro-  posed that the meeting of experts be abandoned and  the relévant budget estimate deleted,
(36) Mr, THOMAS (Arsistant Director-General)  thought that somé clarification was called for, At  Montevideo the Conference had adopted the resolution  quoted ‘at thé beginning’ of document 9C/PRG/12; para-  graph 2 ‘of the résolution confained a décision on  principle - 1e. that the Sécretariat was to draw up  international regulations in the form of a ¥ecommenda-  tion to Member States. That being so, under the  Rules of Procedure adopted by the General Conference  for the préparation of international regulations, the  steps described in paragraph 23 (page 138) of  document 9C/5 bécame nécessary, While it was, of  course, possible for the Conférence to go'back on a  decision taken at an earlier session, the Australian  resolution, if adopted, would have the effect of delay-  ing the implementation of resolution IV. 1, 5. 36  adopted at Montevideo. ;
(37) Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) pointed out that there  was a difference between consulting experts and con-  vening a meeting. Consultation could be carried
374     COMMISSION  out by correspondence for far less than $4,000,
(38) The Australian amendment to paragraph 23 vas  rejected by 24 votes to 17, with 8 abstentions,
(89) The Director-General's proposal in paragraph
23 was therefore approved.
(40) The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to con-  sider paragraph 25 and the resolution on page 2 of  document 9C/PRG/16. Czechoslovakia's amendment  to that resolution in ducument 8C/DR/87 had been  seconded by the delegate of France. The United States  delegation had proposed that the Commission merely  take note of the whole of document 8C/PRG/18, reter-  ring it to the Executive Board.
(41) Mr. TERROU (France) wanted it to'be quite  clear that what he had supported was the first part  of the draft resolution, asserting the necessity for  à free flow of information and for its veracity; he  was not in favour of the other two paragraphs, which  weakened the proposed action.
(42) The Czechoslovak amendment in document
8C/DR/67 was seconded by Mr. PETROV (Bulgaria)  and Mr. GOTTESMAN (Poland).
(43) The United States proposal merely to take note  of document 9C/PRG/16 and to refer it to the Execu-  tive Board was seconded by Mr. BURNS (New Zealand).
(44) It was rejected by 19 votes to 17, with 16  abstentions,
(45) The CHAIRMAN took à vote on the three amend-  ments proposed in document 9C/DR/67,
(46) The first amendment was adopted by 30 votes  to 10, with 6 abstentions,
(47) The second amendment was adopted by 20 votes  to 14, with 8 abstentions,
(48) The third amendment was adopted by 33 votes  to 6, with 8 abstentions,
(49) The whole of the resolution on page 2 of docu-  ment 9C/PRG/16, as amended, was approved by 43  votes to 0, with 4 abstentions,
5.2 Clearing House Services (paragraphs 52 to62)
(50) The CHAIRMAN pointed oùt that the Commission  had two draft resolutions before it (documents
9C/DR/9 and 9C/DR/116) relating to paragraphs 39  and 60,
(51) Mr. ‘GJFSDAL (Director, Department of Masé Com-  munication) explained that, since paragraph 59 had been  prepared, the Secretariat hed consulted a group of rep-  resentative professionals on the possibility of creating  an international council for mass media research. A  meeting on thé subject was being convened, with Unesco's  support, by the University of Strasbourg in December,  The proposal in document 9C/DR/9 would call for a  budgetary increase of approximately $4, 000,   PROGRAMME COMMISSION
(52) Mrs. SCHLUETER-HERMKES (Federal Re-  * public of Germany) (Representative of the Executive  Board) drew the Commission's attention to paragraph
97 on page 19 of document 9C/5 Addendum 1, where  it was stated that the Board had noted the status of the  reorganization of the Department (of Mass Communica-  tion), of which the Clearing House would constitute  an independent unit under the supervision of the  Director of the Department.
(83) Mr. TERROU (France) thanked Mr. Gjesdal,  whose explanations were a vindication of draft reso-  lution 8C/DR/118 submitted by France, Four years  previously, a decision on a question of principle had  been taken by Unesco, the Conference, in 1952, having  unanimously adopted a resolution asking the Secreta-  riat to consult national research bodies in the sphere  of mass communication on the advisability of some co-  ordination of their respective activities. All their  replies had been favourable, and at Montevideo Unesco  had been asked to continue its efforts. The possibi-  lity was at last in sight of carrying out the exchanges  and making the comparisons which were the essential  festure of the contribution that Unesco could make to  progress in the matter.
(54) Miss GNAUCK (Federal Republic of Germany),  referring to her delegation's proposal in document
9C/DR/9, explained that it was merely a question of  translating and printing material already collected.  If that were done in Germany, it would cost from
(85) Miss FIELD (United Kingdom) wondered if  similar, and even more recent, collections had not  been made by other groups.
(56) Mr, GOTTESMAN (Poland), referring to reso-  lutions 5.21 and 5, 22, said that his delegation wished,  without overburdening the Secretariat, to widen the  scope of the Clearing House, To that end, it proposed  the addition of the following words at the end of both  those resolutions; "such as photographic exhibitions,  films, tape recordings, and radio and television  programmes",
(87) Mr, WEEDEN (Australia) feared that the German  proposal might prove rather expensive, According  to his calculations, 250 pages at $31 a page for trans-  lation would work out at some $7, 500,
(58) Mr, GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) said that the Secretariat had calcu-  lated that to translate the collection into English and  pyri and publish it in both languages would cost  rl 80,  In reply to the delegate of the United Kingdom, he  explained that the Secretariat was aware that other  collections had been, or were being, compiled, but  had not had an opportunity to study them fully.
(89) The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to take  a decision on the Polish amendment to resolutions
8.31 and 5.22,
(60) Mr. JORDANA DE POZAS (Spain) inquired   whether the consideration motivating the Polish
375  IV-14  delegation's amendment was not covered by paragraph
108 of the same section of the programme; the latter  likewise mentioned photographic exhibitions,
(61) Mr. GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) explained to the delegate of Spain  that the exhibitions referred to in paragraph 108 were  exhibitions assembled by Unesco itself. The Polish  proposal concerned exhibitions assembled and paid  for by Member States.
(62) The Polish amendment to resolution 5.21 was  seconded by Mr. KATETOV (Czechoslovakia).
(63) It was adopted by 18 votes to 7, with 17  abstentions,
(64) Resolution 5.21, as amended, was approved,  with 7 abstentions,
(65) M-. CHEDIAK (Cuba) asked that, to give a  better idcz of the aim of the Clearing House, the name  be changed to Information Centre. That would appear  to be more logical, since the purpose of the Clearing  House was the collection of background and other data,  ete.
(66) Mr. GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) warned against such a change, as  many different information centres already existed  and there might be confusion. "Clearing House" was  satisfactory in English and "Centre de documentation"  in French,
(67) Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) agreed with Mr.  Gjesdal that "Clearing House" was entirely suitable.  That view was supported by the "Vocabularium  Bibliothecarii' published by Unesco.
(68) The Polish amendment to resolution 5.22 was  adopted.
(69) The French amendment to resolution 5.22, con-  tained in document 9C/DR/116, was adopted by 25  votes to 5, with 10 abstentions. :
(70) Resolution 5.22, as amended, was approved,  with 3 abstentions.
(71) Mr, CHEDIAK (Cuba) asked for clarification of  paragraph 3 of the German delegation's proposal.  Was the publication in question to be issued in English,  in French or in Spanish? “ Was thé aim to make  it available to selected parties or to everyone ?  Since people who spoke English usually spoke French  as wéll and vice versa, it would be a good idea to  have the original translated into French or English  and another language. :
(72) Miss FIELD (United Kingdom) asked itow soon  the translation would be ready, as censorship rules  changed from year to year and the collection was  liable to become out of date before it had been issued.
(73) Mr. REIMERS (Federal Republic of Germany)  said that his delegation had submitted the draft  resolution because it felt that the material concerned   IV-15  should be made available to other countries. If,  however, better or more complete collections existed  elsewhere, his delegation would be quite ready to  withdraw its proposal,
(74) My, TERROU (France) wanted to point out that  the publication of the collection had a legitimate place  in the work being done in general on press and allied  legislation, It was really the duty of national centres  to devote themselves to the study of the statute-law,  and even the case-law, on information, since there  was no jurist in the world who as yet had that essential  international documentation available to him. It  might not be hest to begin with film censorship, but  it was desirable to rely on the national centres to  undertake, jointly with the appropriate national  bodies, a comprehensive study of the law on the matter.
(75) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) suggested that, to  make sure that the compilation of the laws in question  was kept permanently up to date, Unesco publish it -  as with other digests - in the form of a loose-leaf  volume,
(76) Mr. FKANAYAKA (Ceylon) thought that the    PROGRAMME COMMISSION  question of censorship laws was very important and  announced that his delegation would support the German  proposal if the Secretariat considered it useful,
(77) Mr, BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) asked Mr, Gjesdal  whether, if the Belgian proposal for the publication of  a loose-leaf collection were adopted, his Department  would have the necessary staff to see that it was kept  permanently up to date,
(78) Mr, GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) replied that the Department could not  undertake more work without additional staff and funds,
(78) After some further discussion, Mr. REIMERS  (Federal Republic of Germany) said that, in makingits  proposal, the German delegation had not realized that  the financial burden for Unesco would be as heavy as  indicated by Mr, Gjesdal. He would therefore with-  draw the proposal in document 8C/DR/9, merely sug-  gesting that the Secretariat explore ways of makingthe  collection concerned available to Unesco's Member  States,  The meeting rose at 6.45 p,m.  FIFTEENTH MEETING
23 November 1956, at 9 a.m,  Chairman: Mr, BULAJIC (Yugoslavia)  ITEM 9.3 OF THE AGENDA: MASS COMMUNICATION (continued)  (documents 90/5 and Addenda and Corrigenda, documents $C/DR/23,
5.3 Public Information and Promotion of Inter-  national Understanding (paragraphs 83 to 138)
(1) The CHAIRMAN opened the discissfon on section
5.3 of the Mass Communication programme, He  pointéd out that there were no PRG documents con-  nected with that chaptér, but that à number of reso-  lutions would be introduced by delégations at thé appro-  priate points. Those resolutions were: 9C/DR/39  (Austria), 45(Yugoslavia), 88 (Czechoslovakia), 105  (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics), 21, 24, 25  (France), 50 (Argentina) and 70 (Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics), with the amendment proposed by  the United States delegation and left over from theday  before.
(2): Mr. GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Uammunication) stressed that greater help to the  press, radio and films by means of material on Unesco  would secure greater public support. Feature type  illustrated articles for large "house-organs" - a  service organized after a survey of the recipients,
376     particularly of the provincial press - had been very  well received; the reaction would be a guide to Mass  Communication!s future activities. The Increased  distribution to radio systems of raw material for use  in their own way had also had a very favourable recep-  tion.  At Montevideo the question of thé "Courier" had:  been referred to a working party, which had recom-  mended a drive for more subscriptions, : The maga-  zine was devoted to analysing Unebco's problems;  most fields were covered but more particularly  natural sciences and information oñ the United Nations  family. The readers of the "Courier" came from many  walks of life; one-third of them were teachérs - a  special contact area, Its circulation, in three  languages, was now 86,000 copies as compared with
50, 000 two years before; 70, 000 copies were pald  for as against 21,000'in 1954 - an increase from 42  to 81 per cent, Handling costs had naturally gone  up in proportion, as shown in a special paper prè-  pared by the Director-General, Document 9C/5  contained a preliminary proposal for a Russian-lah-  guage edition of the "Courier". Mr. Gjesdal was  glad to be able to report that a definite agreement had  been reached with the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics! National Commission for the publication