TV-34  Mr, Kemenov therefore supported the Polish amend-  ment proposing the insertion of tho words "in co-ope-  ration with the Governments of Hungary and Egypt and  with the United Nations etc," If that amendment were  not introduced, the Director-General would not have ac-  cess to the additional sources of information he nseded.
(100) Mr. TOTH (Hungary) stressed the urgency of the  crisis and suggested adding,at the end of paragraph (8),  "and immediate help be given for the construction of  schools and the rehabilitation of didactic material",
(101) Sir Richard BOYER (Australia) pointed out that  the Hungarian requirement was slresdy stated in  paragraph (1) of the resolution.
(102) Mr. LEE (United States of America) stressed  that "urgency was mentioned in paragraph (4).
(103) Mr, TOTH (Hungary) insisted that the urgency  should be reiterated at the end of paragraph (5).
(104) Mr, HADJIOLOV (Bulgaria) also referred io  the unanimity with which the draft resolution had been  greeted. He urged, however, that the proposed assint-  ance should not be restricted to matters of education  but should include relief in the form of medical aud  food supplies. He would also like to see the Czecho-  slovak amendment adopted, as the assistance referred  to in paragraph (1) and that relating to uninterrupted  education in paragraph (5), could be ensured only if  direct contact were established with the competent  Hungarian and Egyptian Ministries and with the  principals of the schools’ that had suffered. He  therefore proposed that paragraphs (1) and (5) be  reworded so as to mention "co-operation with the  Governments of Egypt and Hungary and with the  governments of the other States concerned",
(105) Mr. ‘KUYPERS (Belgium) observed that the  Belgian delegation had already accepted the Polish  amendment and that the Czechoslovak amendment had  been withdrawn. He thought it was perfectly clear  that, without information received direct from the  Hungarian’ and Egyptian Governments, and without  the co-operation those Governments in all matters  connected with their territory, Unesco's assistance  would remain a dead letter. He saw no need to amend  the title of the ‘resolution, 5 place of residence did not  alter nationality. _Maregyer, it was quite clear that aid  to Hungarian and ‘Egyptian « ‘children would generally be  given on Hungarian and Egyptisn territory,  With regard to the Hungarian delegate’ s suggestion,”  Mr. Kuypers tncught that ii could be worded as  follows: "in view oi ine urgency of granting  immediate aid for the restoration of school buildings  and educational ‘misterials”, Although that amendment  repeated what was said in paragraph (1), his delega-  tion had no objection to accepting it. - .  In reply to the Bulgarian delegate, he expressed  the opinior that it was for the competent Specialized  Agencies to concern themselves with assistance  related to food and health, In order to meet the -  Bulgarian delegite's wishes in connexion with his
1ast observation the Belgian delegation would propose  that paragraph (2) be amended to read: "... to  co-operate, more especially with the govern-
520  PROGRAMME COMMISSION  ments concerned and with the United Nations .,."
(106) The CHAIRMAN suggested insexting (after , .  "co-operaticn") the words "in agreement with the  Governments of Egypt and Hungary as well as those  of the countries concerned" or some such formula,
(107) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) feared  that the unanimity displayed with regard to the spirit’  of the Belgian proposal might be lont in discussion on  the details, He appealed to the delegations of Czecho-  slovakia, Poland, Hungary, Bulgaria and the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics to show a spirit of confi-  dence that would enable a solution to bé reached. He  felt that the Unesco Constitution should be sufficient  to guide the Director-General and the Secretariat in  their relations with Member States. He would  propose that a vote be taken on the Belgian  resolution, as amended by the Polish proposal which  had been accepted by the Belgian delegation.
(108) The CHAIRMAN advocated the use of the phrase  "with governments concerned" as being more general.
(108) Mr. HADJIOLOV (Bulgaria) regretted that the  Belgian delegation had not changed its attitude. While  he agreed with what Mr. Carneiro had said he thought  that worde were not enough; it was also necessary to  be rational and practical.
(110) Mr. KUYPERS (Belgium) wondered whether  the Bulgarian delegate had quite grasped the meaning  of his last speech, - He repeated that he was ready to  take into account all the suggestions made, He had  accepted the Polish amendment; he had proposed that  paragraph (2) be amended by the addition of the words  “more especially"; and he had emphasized that the  expression "the governments concerned" covered all  the governments involved,
(111) Mr, KISELEV (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist .  Republic) stated that his delegation fully supported the  idea of the Belgian resolution but felt that the Belgian  delegate could not but agree with the very rational -  contention that the Hungarian and Egyptian Governments  should be expressly named in paragraphs (2) and (5).
(112) Mr, KUYPERS (Belgium) ‘said that, ‘since the  sense of the amendment proposed so insistently by  several delegations to paragraphs (2) and (5) was  exactly the same as that of the original Belgian  proposal, his delegation would willingly agree to  insert the words "in co-operation with the Govern-  ments of Hungary and Egypt, with other governments  concerned and with the United Nations, etc." in order  to secure the unanimous assent of the Commission.
(113) Draft resolution 8C/DR/125 Rev. 2, proposed  by Belgium, was adopted by acclamation.
(114) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote resolution 1.71  (paragraph 221) which was adopted unanimously.
(115) The Commission also took note of the staffing  pattern of the education programme.  The meeting rose at 7.10 p.m.   PROGRAMME OOMMISSION IV-36  THIRTY-FIFTH MEETING
1 December 1956, at 9 p.m,  . MYRDAL (Sweden) Chairman: Mrs  ITEM 8 OF THE AGENDA : CONSIDERATION OF PART H OF THE  PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1957-1968 (continued)  (documents 9C/8 and Corrigenda and Addenda)  Document 9C/DR/112
(1) - The CHAIRMAN said she had omitted to put to the  vote paragraph Il A - Education, of document
9C/DR/112, submitted by the delegation of France,  under the mistaken impression that the proposal had  no budgetary implications. She would therefore ask  the delogate of France to present that proposal before  proceeding with other business.
(2) Mr. BRUNSYICK (France) said that the French  delegation had revived a proposal to be found in the -  Annex to document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1, paragraphs
4 to 9, which represented the continuation of activities  already under way. In 1952, following the Olympic  Games in Helsinki, it had been felt by the Secretariat  that the absence of any reference to sport in the pro-  gramme of Unesco was a shortcoming, and Member  States and appropriate international organizations had  been consulted about activities that Unesco might  urdertake to encourage the development of the practice  of sports for educational purposes.  The delegate of France stressed that sports were of  interest to Unesco from two points of vidw: firstly,  studies should be made of thé ways in which sports  could be tied up with cultural life and with the develop-  ment of mankind; and, secondly, sports events brought  thousands of young people together and could thus  contribute to the development of international under -  standing - provided that efforts were made to that end,  as otherwise they might on the contrary foster  chauvinism. It had therefore been thought desirable  that a study be made on that subject. The French  National Commission had found support for the idea  among the National Commissions of many other  countries, and in particular of Hungary, which had  considered convening a conference to discuss the  matter,  {3) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium) seconded the French  delegation's proposal,
(4) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) said that it would be  difficult for the Australian delegation to refuse the  proposal of the delegate of France at a time when the  Olympic Games were taking place in Melbourne. He  would, however, be glad to hear the, views of the  Secrétariat on the proposal.
(5) Mr. GUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education) agreed that it would be a pity to break off  activities which had already produced good results and  said that the Secretariat was most anxious to carry out
521  the proposal of the French delegation, But the  budgetary implications of the projéct raised yet again  the question of the financing of the programme as a  whole. In the circumstances, it might perhaps be  preferable for Unesco to ask the Governing Board of  the Youth Institute, whosé new Director was particu-  larly interested in the study of the rôle of sports in  education, to pursue the action already undertaken in’  that field.
(6) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) asked what would be the  budgetary implications if the project were undertaken  by the Gauting Institute, and whether the French  delegation would modify its proposal in any way in the  light of the reply given by the Secretariat.
(7) Mr. GUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education) felt that there was a misunderstanding.  His proposal, he explained, was that the Youth Insti-  tute should be asked to include the question of sport  in one of its forthcoming progranimes, for example  by convening a meeting of youth organizations to study  the rôle of sport in education, but using its own  resources for the purpose.
(8) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) remarked that the  Secretariat was, for the third time, suggesting refer-  ence of a proposal to one of the Unesco Institutes, It  seemed to him that the Institutes weré becoming an  instrument of convenience in the hands of the  Secretariat, and he found the procedure monotonous.  Furthermore, hé wondered how the Institutes were to  take on new activities unless the subventions  allocated to them were increased, and he feared that  the Commission; when it came to examine the budget-  ary adjustments more closely, might have finally to  abandon the proposals put forward. Mr. François  stated that the French delegatiod formally maintained  its proposal and felt that any work concerning the rôle  of sport in education should be undertaken by the  Secretariat itself, which in no way excluded the parti-  cipation of the Gauting Institute.
(9) Upon a vote being taken, the proposal contained in  paragraph II A of document 8C/DR/112, with a budget-  ary implication of $19,228, was adopted by 23 votes to
0, with 14 abstentions.  GENERAL RESOLUTIONS (documents 8C/5, Part II, Chapter 7, and  Addenda and Corrigenda, and documents 9C/PRG/30)
(10) The CHAIRMAN called on the Rapporteur of  Working Party No. 6 to present the report of the  Working Party(document 9C/PRG/39).
(11) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  (Rapporteur of the Working Party on Gensral   IV-38.  Resolutions) recalled that thé Working Party had heen  established to consider two questions: “the future’ of  the Regional Office in the Western Hemispheres, and  the translation of working documents into lariquages  other than the Norking languages of the Organization,  Its discussicis, however, had led it to consides other  items, particularly the proposal submitted by the  delegation of Argentina for the establishment of an  information centre (document 8C/DR/50) and  questions under item 0,8.3 of the sgende (Aid to  National Commissions). -  The Working Party had held a thorough discussion of  the factors that had led the Director-General to make  the recommendation qantained in document 9C/8  regirding the future 6f the Regional Office in the  Western Heniisphere at Havana, and of the views  expressed. thé delegations of Cuba and Brazil in the  draft résolution contained in paragraph 11 of the report  (document 9C/PRG/30). The Working Party recom-  mended adoption of the draft résolution set forth in  paragraph 27 (c) of its report, and further recom-,  mended); (a) that the question of decentralization be  put on the agenda of the tenth session; and (b) that the  next reglènal meeting of National Commissions in  Latin America be held in Buenos Aires (paragraph 10  of the report).  After consideration of the proposal of the delegation  of Argentina (document 9C/DR/50) the Working Party  had decided that the type of assistance proposed in the  draft resolution came within the framework of assist-  ance to National Commissions, It had accordingly  recommended adoption of resolutions 7,11 and 7.12,  with the amendment indicated in paragraph 27 (a) of  the report, and the budgetary increases proposed in  paragraphs 27 (b), sub-paragraphe (if) and (iii).  Section II of the report related to the translation  and adaptation of Uneaco publications in languages  other than the working languages and, after discussion,  the delegates of the Arab Member States had agreed  not to press for adoption of their draft resolutions  contained in documents 8C/DR/6, 7 and 8 if the  proposals set forth in document 9C/5 Addendum 3 were  accepted. TheWorking Party accordingly recommended  acceptance of those proposals (paragraph 27 (e) of the  report).
(12) The CHAIRMAN thanked the Rapporteur and  members of the Working Party, and said that the  Commission would consider the recommendations made  in the order in which they appeared in document 9C/5.  I. Assistance to National Commissions (paragraphe 3  to 19 and documents 9C/PRG/2 and 30)
(13) The CHAIRMAN called on the Rapporteur af the  Committee on Reports of Member States to present the  report of the Committee in that respect (document
(14) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur of the  Committee on Reports of Member States) said that the  Committee had made a careful study of ducument
9C/PRG/21 and proposed that the Commission adopt  as à whole the conclusions set forth in Part C of the  document.
522     PROGRAMME COMMISSION  The Committee had torinulated certain comments  cahcé ering afd to National Commissions, which were  to be found in paragraphs 36 to 30 of document
9C/PRG/2, In the course of the ten years of Unesco’  existence, the’ programme of the Organization had  moved, 86 far as methods of execution were concerned  towards increased participation by Member States,  with a parallel increase in the responsibilities of  National Commissions, That fact was noted in  paragraph 37 of document 9C/PRG/2, where the Com-  mittes emphasized the National Commissions! : res-  ponsibilities with regard to the co-ordination of :  activities and drew a distinction between the National  Commission and its Secretariat, Mr, Brunsvick read  out paragraph 39, in which the Committee indicated the  methods which it thought appropriate to help Member  States develop national co-operating bodies, including  visits to the Headquarters of the Organization by  Secretaries of National Commissions, Mr. Brunsvick  then read out the Committee's recommendations  {paragraphs 41 and 42), and added that it suggested  that the Commission present them in that form to the  General Conference for adoption.
(15) The CHAIRMAN thanked the Rapporteur snd drew  attention to the items under consideration: paragraphs
1 to 19 in document 9C/5, paragraphs 40 to 42 of  document 8C/PRG/2, and paragraphs 15 to 27 of  document 9C/PRG/30.
(16) There being no objection, the text of resolution
7.11 as contained in document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1  (paragraph 3 of Chapter 7) was adopted unanimously.  {17) Resolution 7.12, as contained in document 9C/5  Corrigendum 1, with the amendment to paragraph (E)  proposed by the Working Party (paragraph 27 (a) of  document 9C/PRG/30) was put to the vote and adopted  unanimously.
(18) The proposals of the Committee on Reports of  Member States contained in paragraph 42 of that  Committee's report were then put to the vote and  adopted unanimously.
(19) The CHAIRMAN then asked the Commission to  note the work plans set forth in paragraphs 5 to 18,"  Chapter 7 of document 9C/5, under project 7.121, and  to approve the budgetary increases recommended by  the Working Party(paragraph 27 (b) of document
(20) That proposal was adopted by 23 votes to 1, with
3 abstentions.
(21) The CHAIRMAN noted that the recommendations  of the Working Party with regard to the translation and  adaptation of Unesco publications in languages other  than the working languages (peragraphs 18 to 23 of  document #C/PRG/30} coincided with the proposals of  the Director-General in that respect in document
(22) There being no objection, that proposal was  adopted unanimously.   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  fi. Contribution to the development of international  cultural relations (paragraphs 20 to 41 and documents  C/DR/32 and 76)
(23) The CHAIRMAN then opened ‘discussion on the  proposals contained in draft resalutions 9C/DR/32  and 9C/DR/76, submitted by the delegations of  Csechoslovakia and Poland, respectively, relating to  the structure and methods of work: of National  Commissions. She noted that the resolutions were  very similar in substance and wondered if the dele-  gations concerned could not agree to vote on a single  text. -
(34) Mr. NAVRATIL (Czechoslovakia) gave the  reasons which had led his delegation to present draft  resolution 8C/DR/32, - It had seemed fo the  Csechoslovak delegation that the meetings which had  been held for European National Commissions at  Aix-en-Provence and for Asian National Commissions  in Tokyo, as well ae the activities of the Havana  Office, were evidence of Uneaco!s constant preoccu-  pation with collaboration with Nations! Commissions  on a regional basis. ‘Furthermore, the Director-  General, in document 9C/PRG/23, had put forward a  proposal for the establishment by groups of National  Commissions of offices for co-operation with Unesco.  The desire to decentralize Unesco's activities had  resulted in the adoption of a resolution by the General  Conference at its eighth session, and the Czechoslovak  delegation had felt that, since the prospects opened up  by that resolution had not yet been exhausted, a new  résolution should be adopted at the ninth session,  inviting all Member States to establish regional groups.  Mr. Navratil was certain that draft resolution
9C/DR/32 was in conformity with Unesco's general  principles, and would encourage international under-  standing and facilitate the use of the methods advo-  cated by the General Conference at its eighth session.
(25) Mrs. KAMINSKA (Poland) said that, in view of  the similarity between draft resolution 8C/DR/76,  presented by her delegation, and the draft resolution  presented by the Czechoslovak delegation, the Polish  delegation had decided to withdraw its proposal and to  support draft resolution 8C/DR/ 32.
(26) Mr. CHEVALIER (Office of the Director-General)  felt that the draft resolution présénted by the Czecho-  slovak delegation was primarily a statement of  principle, and merely confirmed the proposals made  by the Director-General in document 8C/6. In fact,  resolution 7.22 providéd for closer co- ordination of  the Secretariat's work with that of the national  services responsible for cultural relations with foreign  countries; paragraphs 27 to 32 of the chapter dealing  with general resolutions proposed a study of cultural  relations, in particular, at the regional level, and the  Commission had just approved paragraphs 10 and 11  of that same chapter, relating to regional conferences  of National Commissions. It would appear, therefore,  that the Secretariat had already to a large extent met  the wishes of the Czechoslovak delegation.
237) The CHAIRMAN noted that the draft résolution  ‘submitted by the delegation of Czechoslovakia  contained no budgetary implications and made no
523     IV-36  proposals for changes in work plans, It merely  involved a change in the formulation of the Sax.
(28) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium) could not clearly  see the purpose of adopting the Czechoslovak  delagation's proposal, He thought it better not to  adopt too many resolutions, in order not to make the  Conference's conclusions unwieldy, He would.  therefore abstain when the draft resolution was put  to the vote.
(28) Mr, LORTIE (Canada) agreed with the Belgian  delegate,
(30) Mr. STEPANEK (Czechoslovakia) said that, in  the light of the discussion that had taken place, he  would withdraw his delegation's proposal, on the  understanding that the point it had raised would be  included in the report of the Rapporteur,
(31) Resolution 7.21 was adopted unanimously, with  one abstention, and resolution 7.23 was adopted  unanimously, with two abstentions.  III. Regional Office in the Western Hemisphere  {paragraphs 42 to 51)
(32) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion oa resolution
7.31 as contained in paragraph 42, Chapter 7 of  document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1, and the counter-  proposal of the Working Party,set forth in the draft  resolution in paragraph 27 (c) of its report (document
9C/PRG/30), relating to the future of the Regional  Office in the Western Hemisphere,
(33) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  explained that the Director-General was unable to  concur in the recommendation of the Working Party,  and, as à matter of principle, maintained the proposals  he had made in paragraphs 42 to 47 of document
9C/5 Corrigendum !. The Director-General hid been  requested by the eighth session of the General Confer-  ence to undertake, in 1955 and 1956, a detailed evalu-  ation of the methods and results of the work of the  Havana Office, and to submit’ recommendations with  respect to the futire of that office to thé finth session.  The Director-Genéral had accordingly ‘conducted that  inquiry, in consultation with the Member Stites con-  cerned and with the Exsoutive Board. His report was  contained. in document 9C/PRG/22 and his recommend-  ations and proposed’ work plans were before the meeting  in document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1. -As hé had pointed  out in his report, the Havana Office, with the limited  resources and staff at its disposal, had done a good  job, but in the light of the evaluation he had had to  undertake at the request of the eighth sésalon, hie had  felt obliged to fecomimend that the office be reorganized  and that its activities be concentrated on the educational  programme of Unesco in Latin America, responsibility  for other prôgramme activities being distributed at  other points in Latin America. He felt that the Orga-  nization had reached a stage in its development when  the necessity for "liaison" points had ceased, and the  continuation of purely "liaison" offices would be  tantamount to recommending the continuation of  unnecessary bureaucracy. Furthermore, the alloca-  tion of liaison responsibilities to an office with limited   IV-38 PROGRAMME  resources had led to à situation in which the office was  unable to achisve its j - It wad therefore  necessary to revise the entire oncépt of the office  and to ¢oncentrate its action on programme activities  in the region. Hé also péinted out that the proposal où  the Director-General would result in a saving of  $40,000, which could be allocated to Major Project 1A  in Latin ‘America.
(34) Mr. CARBONELL (Cuba) thought it advisable to  make a few comments on the Havana Regional Office  since the Working Partyhad approved the Cuban  delegation's proposal. - :  The Working Party had taken into consideration,  among other things, the following opinion dppearing on  page 11 of document 8C/PRG/22 ("Evaluation of the  methods and results of the work done by the Regional  Office"); - "There is no doubt whatever that the staff of  the Regional Office has rendered valuable services to  Unesco. The constant presence in Latin America of a  team of devoted and compétent specialists, familier  with the special circumstances and problems of the  region and maintaining regulai personal contacts with  the authorities, National Commissions and intergovern-  mental institutions has been effective in promoting the  prosecution of some of Unesco's activities, and equally  satisfactory results could certainly not have been  obtained without the enérgetic co-operation of the staff  of the Regional Office." . -  TheWorking Party had also studied the report in  document 44 EX/28 (page 14) submitted to the  Executive Board at its 44th session, which contained  statements sufficient to confirm the efficiency. of the  Havana Reglonal Office. In it appeared the following:  "Neither the Conference on Free and Compulsory  Primary Education; nor the Conference on Cultural  Integration of Immigrants, nor the Regional Seminar  on the Teaching of the Social Sciences, nor the public  library pilot project in Colombia, could have been #8  successful without the energetic co-operation of the  staff of the Regional Office".  It was the Director-General himself who had spoken  so emphatically in favour of the Regional Office, and  his opinion carried weight as it represented the views  of the Unesco Secretariat, which was the body making  direct use of the office. ‘  He added that the Director of the office, in his report  to the Working Party,had shown conclusively that the  Regional Office was carrying out tasks that covered  practically all the fields of Unesco's activity with the  exception of the natural sciences. That report  showed that the office was functioning systematically,  that it maintained contacts all over the continent, and  that it had considerable experience, It was clear that  Unesco had spent time and money to bring the Regional  Office to the present stage of development and it would  be no help to the Organization to upset what had been  done for the purpose of making new experiments of  uncertain value, .  The Working Partyhad been reminded that the Cuban  Government contributed a subvention of $20,000 every  two years towards the upkeep of the office, in addition  to paying $10,000 for the rental of the large premises  it occupied and providing the necessary furniture.  The total amount came to more than $35,000 every two  years, a contribution which would be lost in the event  of the office's being abolished or modified.
524     COMMISSION  For the above” reasons, the Working Party had cons”  sidered that the '6ffic¢ should be maintained in its  existing form, However, as the proposal set out in  document. 9C/5 Corrigendum-1 was based on the  {des that the experts in Latin America should be  mye responsible for the execution of specific  projects, or should collaborate in such projects, the  Working Party,on the proposal of the Brasilian  delegate, had seen no objection to instructing the  Regional Office to collaborate in the major project for  Latin America. .  He considered that solution most practical and  logical since he thought it unnecessary, for the exe-  cution of specific projects, to disperse the officials  who were carrying out their duties in the office so  efficiently, . |",  He said that; in actual fact, the office was already .  working on the major project, since it had carried out  various preparatory négotiations, through the Director  of the Latin American Officé when visiting govern- -  ments, in order to ascertain what part the countries  concerned could play in the project. Similarly, the  education expert had juat visited Venezuela to study  the contribution that could be made to the project by  the Normal School at Rubio, | -  He udded that document 44 EX/4, Addendum 1, which  had been submitted to the Executive Board and to the  Latin AmetHican countries ;' statéd that the official  directing the project in the field would "be ass.sted as  required by the staff of the Havana Office".  He thought that, as it had been shown that the office  was working efficiently, as it had been praised by the  Director-General, as it had been thought deserving of  the support of distinguished members af the Executive  Board, and as it was backed by Latin America, the  most natural and logical thing to do was to use its  services in carrying out the major project.  He pointed out that the arrangements recommended  by the Working Party entailed no change in the budget  estimates submitted by the Director-General.  He repeated his delegation's statement to the -  Working Party that the Cuban Government supported  the office, not for political or any other reasons, but  because it was convinced that the office waa helpful in  Unesco's work in Latin America.
(35) Mr. VITO (Italy) said that, as Director of the  Regional Science Meeting held in Latin America, he  had greatly appreciated the contribution to that meeting  of the Head of the Havana Office, who had dons much  to help participants to understand the educational and  social problems existing in that pert of the world, He  therefore felt that it would be of value to maintain the  office.
(36) Mr. LORTIE (Canada) stated that, after hearing  the explanations given by various speakers in the  course of the previous mseting, and those just  supplied by Mr. Adiseshish, he would vote against the  Working Party" s proposal.  {3m Mr. BETANCUR MEJIA {Calombia) reiterated  the views put forward by his delegation in the  Working Pacty; it was in favour of the Havana  Regional Office, which had rendered valuable services  both to Colombia aiid to the other Latin American  countries that had expre. sed their support for it.   PROGRAMME
(96) Mr, SECCO ELLAURI (Uruguay) felt obliged to  speak in favour of the Havana Office, although more  dalogatos had already expressed support for it than  had spoken’ against it, because the de ate had opened  with the’ authoritative statement of Mr, Adiseshiah,  who was rot in favour of the office, and hs feared that  all the votes of the Latin Amer} countries might  not offset the influence that the asistant Director-  General's prostige would carry with the Conference.  He added that, as the technical side of the question had  been most ably argued by the Cuban delegate, he  wished to mention a few facts that might serve to throw  light on the Director-Generalis attitude with regard  to the office.  into two stages, the’ period prior to 1953 and that from
1953 to 1956. Until ‘1953, the office had never had the  same staff for any "length of time. He had had an  opportunity of analysing the office's position in 1953  and had been able to show that the staff had been con-  tinually changed so that it hr 4 never had a team of  workers thoroughly familiar with the work they had  to perform. , .  From 1953 onwards, when something had been done  to remedy administrative’ shortcomings, the office had  been living under séntence of death, Between 1953  and 1956, it wis never ‘possible for the office, its  Director, or its experts to be free of anxiéty, as the  Sword of Damocles hung perpetually «ver their heads.  When in 1953 the Director-General, at a meeting of  the Executive Board, had said that he was régolved to  abolish the office, he did so with far more passion  than he had shawn in the case of other matters that  were more important to Unesco. The Director-  General had been overridden at that time and thus the  office survived until the Montevideo Cénférence.  Then it had been saved once more through the  solidarity of Latin’ ‘American support, but it was not  left to work in peace ‘since it was then that its dis-  memberment began. In other words, the Secretariat  began unofficial discussions on the redistribution of  the office! s resources and activities, and all the Latin  American countries had been more concerned with  how such a redistribution would affect them than with  the office itself, H¢ asked whether anyone could be  asked to work normally when he was forced to fight  for very existence.  He said that, in spite of all the foregoing, the  Havana Office had ‘done good work, us had been  admitted not only by all the Latin American countries  but by the Director-General himaelf, as the Cuban  delegate had pointed out.  He assumed that the Director-General had then  spoken the truth, in full awareness of what he was  saying. The Director-General, in those remarks, did  not appear t6 be the same man as the Diréctor-General  of 1956, and Mr. Secco Ellauri preferred the former,  He pointed out that, in the Executive Board, all the  Latin American countries had been against the  Director-General's proposal. While he did not think  that those countries were of greater importance than  others, he was of the opinion that their views should  be listened to with regard to the case under discussion  so that the persistent attacks against the Regional  Office might cease.
525  COMMISSION     IV-35
(39) Mr, SOULES UNDA (Venezuela) supported the  Working Party's reçommendation for the maintenance  of the office, whose necessity and usefulness to Latin  America were obvious.
(40) Mr. .DAVIES. “(Austraita) said that his delegation  had arrived at the ninth session with the intention of  opposing the maintenance of the Havana Office.  However, it had listened with much sympathy to the  various arguments put forward by the Latin American  delegations and felt thai other Member States should  try to understand the point of view of those who used  the office, His delegation would, therefore, vote in  favour of the draft resolution proposed by the Working  Party, in the hope that the Director-General would  find some means to make the assistance given by that  office more effective, _-  He noted, in paragraphs ) and 11’ of the report ‘of the  Working Party, that a Brazilian amendment to the draft  resolution of Cuba, which, proposed the maintenance of  the Havana Office as currently conceived until the  tenth session of the General Conference, had been  accepted, However, there was no mention of the  tenth session in the draft resalution recommended by  the Working Party for adoption. He would therefore  move that a fourth paragraph be added to the draft  resolution, requesting the Director-General to submit  a further evaluation of the work of the Havana Office  to the tenth session of the General Conference.  Subject to the adoption of that amendment, he would  support the resolution.
(41) That proposal was seconded by the delegate of  China.
(42) The CHAIRMAN noted that the budgetary impli-  cation of both the Director-General's proposal and  that of the Working Party was the same, the difference  being in the proposed distribution and utilization of  the funds.
(43) Mr, CHEDIAK (Cuba) thanked the Australian  delegate for his frank statement, which showed that  reason could carry éonviction, as his delegation had  voted against the proposal in the Working Party. With  regard to the amendment proposed by the Australian  delegation, he felt the point was covered by paragraph
10 of document 9C/PRG/30, page 2.
(44) The CHAIRMAN said she would first take a vote  on the draft resolution recommended by the Working  Party in paragraph 27 (c) of its report, and would then  ask the Commission to approve the further recom-  mendations made in paragraph 10.
(45) Upon a vote being taken, the text of draft reso-  lution 7,31 recommended by the Working Party in  document 9C/PRG/30 was adopted by 30 votes to 4,  with 6 abstentions.
(46) The Commission then approved paragraphs 4 to
14 of the report of the Working Party, including the  recommendations made in paragraph 10.
(47) Mr. LIAUTAUD (Haiti) wished to explain his vote.  He was convinced, in substance, that it would be useful   IV-38  for Unesco to havé à body in diredt contact with  Latin America, especially at's time when the major  project relating to the extension of primary education  in that region was to be carried out. He had  abstained only because a recent incident at the  Headquarters of the Haitian diplomatic mission  obliged his delegation to maintain an attitude of  reserve on the question.
(48) Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Diréétor-Generat)  explained thit the debate had been somewhat difficult  for the Secretariat, as there had been certain impli-  cations’ of n-will towards a particular grovwp ot  countries. : Such a charge would indeed be grave, but  the Conference should realise that the Director-.  General bad been under an obligation imposed by the  eighth session to undertake a thorough evaluation of  the work of the Havana Office and to hake récommend-  ations concerning its future. The Secretariat was  only ‘out the mandate of the General  Conference. - . N  At the request’ of the “Éhutrmian! he Hated the budget-  ary implications of the decision taken by the Com-  mission: it would be necessary to delete the prov-  isions under items 1.811 and 4.811; to deléte also,  from Part II (Corrigendura 1), the provision shown in  paragraphs 92, 117 and 120 of Chapter 5 - Bureau of  Relations with Member States; and to delete à sum of  $40,000 from the prévision for Major Project 1A in  Latin America. More specific information would be  given to the Commission after the meetings of the  Committee on Budget Adjustments,
(45) Mr. SECCO ELLAURI (Uruguay) wished to make  it clear to the Commission that Mr. Adiseshiah was  aware of the personal respéct with ‘which he regarded  him, and to explain the reason for the attitude he had  adopted in his previous remarks. He said that his  actions were always based on a simple philosophy,  - namely complete respect for facts and discretion with  regard to motives. He had not questioned the motives
526  PROGRAMME COMMISSION  SON  it was, in fact, strenuously a to the office's .  existence, An'the Assistant Director-General  appeared to have taken sing offence, he wished to  explain whet He had said so that there should be no  misunderstaujug. He idded that one could be in  sympathy ‘or oùt «! sympathy with the Secretariat, but  it was logical to act with warmth and absolute  sincerity when maticra of importance were involved,  Document sc/ 5 Addendum 3
(80) The CHAIRMAN opened dlscussion on ‘persgraphs
18 to 23 of the report of the Working Party and drew  attention to the recommendation’ regarding the  Director-General's proposals in document 9C/8  Addendura 3, contained in parsgraph 23 thereof.
(1) Mr ADISESHIAH (Assiptat Direétor-General)  explained that tie proposal Éontained in document
9C/5 ‘Addénduïñ 3 had originaily been included (ii the  list of préjects placed before thé General Conference  in the Annex to document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1 as being  desirable projects’ for ‘which no funds were available.  When the budget had beén increased dy the addition of  $1,000, ,000, the Director-General had included that  proposal in the’ ‘projects he recommended in document
8C/5 Corrigendum 4, but at a lower budgetary level  than that proposed fn document 9C/5 Addendum 3.  The Working Partyhad recommended adoption of the  proposal and budgetary provisions of $30,612 for 1957  and $31,415 for 1958, set forth in document 9C/5  Addendum 3,
(52) There being no further discussion, the recom-  mendation of the Working Party,contained in paragraph
27 {e) of document 9C/PRG/30 was put to the vote and  adopted by 28 votes to 0, with 3 abstentions,  The meeting rose at 11.5 p.m.