15 November 1956, at 3,30 p.m.  Chairman:  ITEM 16 OF THE AGENDA} QUESTIONS CONCERNING THE  MEADQUARTERS OF UNESCO, REPORT OF THE  READQUARTERS COMMITTEE (continued) (document $C/ ADM/ 0)  M, Financial status of the project (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that th: Commission  had first to consider the problem of the estimated  deficit of $998,433 and then that of measures to be  taken to enable the Director-General tp meet any |  additional construction or labour costs that might be  incurred up to the completion of the bvilding.
(2) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdcen) observed that  the deficit was clearly due to causes beyond the  Secretariat's control, How far the Headquarters  Committee could have prevented the deficit if it had  met more often, it was hard to say; personally, he  doubted whether it could have done much, because  members of the Committee would, in any case, have  had to rely on the advice of experts and such infor-  mation as they could glean from parallel experiments  in their own countries, -  Although the United Kingdom naturally viewed with  regret the deficit of $998,433 due to à rise in price  levels in Franca, it was convinced that the sum would  have to be found and would therefors vote for the  additional $1,000,000 without further, discussion.  With regard to the extra $500,000 which it was  proposzd to draw from the Working Cepital Fund, the  Unite] Kingdom delegation shared the fear expressed  by the delegates of Canada and Australia that the  Conference might not give the necessary authorization.  Mr. Cowell therefore supported the solution proposed  by the United States delegation, namely, that the  Conference ask the Director-General to request the  French Government to take over that liability as part  of the interest-free loan which it was already making  available to Unesco.
(3) Mr. CABOUAT (France) supported the proposal.  He felt that draft resolution A.1, on page 12 of  document 8C/AL'M/20, was reasonable and would  make sure that the work would be completed in time.  He went on to explain the basic position of the  French Government; the French authorities had  undertaken to assist in financing the work until its  completion, and were therefore prepared to ask  Parliament to agree to the State's guaranteeing  additional loane on the same terms, in order to make  it possible to complete the project and to cover the  rising costs of materials and wages. The Organiza-  tion could therefore be confident that its needs would  be considered and that all the necessary facilities  would be granted. It would, however, be well for as  exact an estimate as possible to be made of the sums  required. At the moment, an additional sum of
579  Mr. DAVIES (Australie)  roughly $1,000,000 was expected, but that estimate  might have to be revised in the event of further rises.  However things might turn out, the financial backing  of the French Government was assured until work on  the building was completed,
(4) The CHAIRMAN expressed the Commission's  gratitude to France for the further evidence of her  generosity in agreeing to give sympathetic cousider-  ation to the possibility of according a supplementary  interest-free loan to cover the deficit in construction  costs. He took it that the delegates of France and the  United Kingdom supported section À I of the draft  resolution.
(5) Mr. TRUEBLOOD (United States of America)  announced that his delegation also supported section  A 1 of the draft resolution.
(6) Section A.1 of the draft resolution was approved  by 37 votes to 0, wita 2 abstentions, and recom-  mended to the General Conference for adoption.
(7) The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to  consider the problem of possiblo additional construc-  tion costs up to the completion of the building, He  recalled that the delsgates of France and the United  Kingdom had already spoken in favour of section A. 1!  of the draft resolution on page 12 of the report, and  had suggested that the Director-General be authorized  to negotiate with the French Government for a  supplementary loan to reimburse the Working  Capital Fund, -
(8) Mr. MUNRO (Australia) thought that the Execu-  tive Board should be made responsible for keeping a  close check on possible increases in expenditure.  He observed that $500,000 on top of the extre  $1,000,000 constituted a very large sum.
(9) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that such  was the implication of the resolution, since he could  not draw on the Working Capital Fund without the  approval of the Exacutive Hoard, He would be very  grateful if the French Government could grant an  additional loan, making it unnecessary to draw on the  Working Capital Fund, but that was à matter which  concerned the Headquarters Committee and not the  Executive Board. He pointed out to the delegate of  Australia that the Executive Board had not so far  been concerned with the construction of the  headquarters building.
(10) Mr. CABOUAT (France) said that, while the  French Government's attitude was as he had outlined  it, it could not yet be said what alterations in proce-  dure would result from sections À .1 and AI! of the   V-11  draft resolution, He could, however, asqure the , |  Commission that the position adopted would apply hot  only tô the first $1,000,000 needed at the moment to  . cover the deficit but also to any later loan,
(11) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the Commission  was prepared to approve section A, II of the draft  resolution, with the addition of a “stipulation that the  Director-General should negotiate with the French  Government with a view to obtaining a corresponding  loan. . . ,
(12) Mr. ; MUNRO (Australie) moved the’ ingertion, in  the third line of the second paragraph of section u,  after the words "with the prior approval”, of the  words: "of the Executive Board on the reccinmenda-  tion" (of the Headquarters Committee).
(13) Mr. TRUEBLOOD (United States of America)  considered that any decision on additional costs  should be taken in the Headquarters Committee by a  two-thirds majority. He moved the addition of words  to that’ effect. .
(14) Mr. SCOTT (Canada) seconded the United States  proposal. Further, in view of the éontinuing rise in  construction costs, he proposed that, if the Corfer-  (ince approved the $500,000 increase, Mr. Wallace K.  Harrison - one of the architects responsible for the  United Nations building in New York - be brought in  on à per diem basis to supervise the completion of  the building, He added that he intended no ériticism  of the Headquarters Committee, but of those  responsible at the technical planning level.
(15) Thé DIRECTOR-GENERAL observed that the  United States ‘proposal,’ aécondéd by Canada, would  call for an amendment’ to Rule 81' of the Rules of  Procédure; which did not provide for the case  concerned, and the {tem would have to be inserted in  the agenda of the General Cénfererice.
(16) Mr. CABOUAT (Féhiice) dished td‘iiake a  comment with regard to the Canadieh deiégate's  suggestion, While the French authorities were  certainly prepared to negotiate with the Director- ’  General; ‘they would naturally resérve thé right to ask  him for all the information possible about the -  expected’ repercussions of rises of all kinds. On the  technical level; thorough expert evaluations would  therefore be carried out under the supervision of the  Headquarters Committée. The same method would  be followéd for any other loan instalments that might  later be found necessary. :  (tn Mr. TR UEBLOCD (United States of ; America)  abked if the matter could not be included under item
14. 1 of the agenda. ' ‘  us The. DIRECTOR-GENERAL'+ was not sure . if that  would be pussiblé / as item 14.1 made no reference ’  to document XC/ADM/20, Init only to document
(19): Mr;- FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) supported the  proposal ot the United States of America and Canada  but did not think it very. appropriate; legally speaking,’
580  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  to add a new paragraph to Rule 81 of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference, A better  solution would be to suspend the application of the  above Rule in the case concerned so that, by removing  the legal obstacle, the proposal could be approved by  a simple majority.
(20) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that if use were  made of Rule 108, the result would be to suspend the  whole of Rule 81, ‘providing for cases in which a  two-thirds majority was required.
(21) Mr, PARRA- PÉREZ (V edézuéla) (Chairman of  the Headquarters Committee) said that the Connie  of which he had the honour to be Chairmen had always  taken its decisions’ unanimously and, when there had  been any disagreement, that fact had been recorded  in the minutes. He doubted whether the proposed  resolution would be effective.
(22) The CHAIRMAN remarked that, if he were asked  for a ruling, he would have to rule against the inclusion  of the point in Rule 81.
(23) Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) asked if Rule 81 were  applicable to the problem under discussion. He  understood it to apply only to plenary sessions of the  General Conference.
(24) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) expressed the opinion  that there was no problem on’ the level of an amend-  ment of the Rules of Procedure; all that was  involved was the delegation of powers to à specific  body which could exercise such powers only if a fixed  majority was obtained. Howéver, the delegation of  powers was restricted, and the Commission did not  have to decidé on the majority by which the Head-  quarters Committee should take its decisions for all  time and for evéry question: ;  The Legal Committée had not yet examined thé  problem put to it concerning the General Conference's  power, without amending ‘the Constitution, to determine  the majority required in cases not yet provided for.  No amendment was necessary in the case in point,  however, as all that was involved was a delegation of  powers.
(25) The CHAIRMAN therefore éoncluded that the  United States proposal would not involve any change’  in the Rules of Procedure, but would merely have to  be inserted in the draft resolution before the  Commission,
(26) - In reply to'a ‘question trom the CHAIRMAN; ol  Mr. i TRUEBLOOD (United States of Amierica) -  confirmed that his proposal in regard to the extra: ;  $800,000 which right be required was to delete -  parrgréph 2'ot Section II and to replace it by words.  to,“ as ‘effect that the Director-General was authorised  to raw the necessary amount from the Working :  Capiié) Fund and to negotiate with the French Govern-  ment for an additional loan to reimburse that Fund.
(27) As there were technical points involved, -  Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked if à new text  of Section II coul: he prepared for approvel by the  Commission at a later sisge. That would give the -   ADMINISTRATIVE. COMMISSION  délegate of France an opportunity to see that it was -  drafted in a manner satisfactory to his Government,  and the Director-General time to study the legal  aspects of the question.
(28) Mr POMPEI (italy) entirely sgreed with  Mr, Cowell,” The text should refer explicitly to the  possibility of negotiations with thé French Government.  : Put in order that every poisibility should be covered,  his delegation took the vievr that it would be wise  * policy to authorize the Director-General to draw on  the Working Capital Fund if necessary.
(29) The CHAIRMAN said that he would endeavour to  prepare a text with the help of the Secretariat and  would submit it to the Commission the following  morning.
(30) Mr, CABOUAT (France) requested the Secret-  ariat to draw up, for the French authorities in general  and the Ministry of Finante in particular, an additional  document which would cofitain an up-to-date statement  and ‘an official recapitulation of all the estimates of  costs that might be incurred in order. to ensure the  completion of the work.’ Stressing the fact that the  first contracts concluded with contractors had been  more advantageous than expected, and that rises had  occurred some time after the work had begun,  Mr. Cabouat pointed out that, for relatively accurate  estimates to be made, the document should show, aide  by side; the 1953 budget estimates for the building,  the amounts of current contracts in 1054, the additional  expenditure {fcurred in 1054, and the rires that had  affected the preceding figures.
(31) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that the  French delegate's request was à very reasonable  one and stated that the Secretariat was ready to  prepare a document during the current session; it  would, however, be more complete if it were  prepared upon return to Paris.  IV. Negotistions with the International Civil  Aviation Organization (ICAO)  v. Proposed construction of an additional building -
(32) Refesring to paragraph; 31, , the BijECTOR:  .GENFRAL ‘emphasized t that, un ni er the’ ‘écaolutions of  the eighth session of the Gener Confrence, he felt  compelled, if the third building were ‘constructed, to  attribute first priority to ICAO's neels asd caly  seçond priority to those of the Secrefariat iteelf,  ; ent delegations ‘afd hori- -goves ‘nier crgani-.  zatièns having’ consultative’ Arrangeinents with Unesco.  Moreover), quite apart from his ob} gatiotis under the:  Conference resolutions, | he felt as À matter of principle  that, if another mémber, of the ‘Unijed Natioris family  required accommodation; it shoul] havé priority over  permanent delegations and fion- givernmental organi-  ations. However, he knew that the Headquarters  Committee did not agree with hin on that point.
33) “The CHAIRMAN drew ‘the’ Commission‘ 5 éthbntion  to the three possible solutions’ in paragraph 41 of the’  rèport. The Headquarters Committee recommended’  the adoption of the second proposal to the Conference.
581  . with  ét the Secretariat. 11 the Europ    vill  The financial implications of the three solutiona were  given in paragraph 42," .- a.
(34) Mr, COWELL, (United Kingdon) slated that his  delegation supported the first solution, i, e. that there  should be no third building at all, on the grounds given  in paragraph 37. While feeling very sympathetic |  towards ICAO, the United dom delegation :  considered that Unesco sh net engage. in resl- _  estate operations - in other words, that it should not  let premises td other Agencies, Another advantage  of not having a third building would be that it would  make it impossible for Unesco's staff to expand still  further, as there would be nowhere to put them,
(35) Mr. de HOOG (Netherlands), on behalf of his  delegation, advocated the solution outlined in paragraph
41 (b) of document’ ‘aC/ADM/20.
(36) ME ‘POMPEL (italy) ‘distinguished the two aspects  of the. problem; the purely financial ‘aspect, wh  - would appear to suggest the adoption of the solution  contained in gub- paragraph (a) of paragraph 41, ‘and’ ;  this problem of the use to be made of the permanent .‘  Headquarters, From the estimates summarized in’  the document, it could be’ concluded that the main  building would, in’ actual fact, be insufficient ‘to house  the Secretariat. ‘But it was vital to bear in mind that  the aim of building the permanent Headquarters was  to enable the Organization to work with increased  efficiency.  In addition, the néeds ‘listed as secondary were’  actually most important, It wag of vital {importance  that the permanent delegations’ should have offices in  Unesco's Headquarters, espe fully d uring the sessions  of the Conference, and the: ‘rental of outside offices  would bé very | much more, phone) than the additional  expense provided for 1 {+ the ‘estimates, ‘In addition, |  the biternationa! Hoñ-goÿernmental ofganizations’ were  likev/ise considered as being becessary auxiliariés | of  Unelico and a sut bstantial proportion of the, subventions  acctirded to. them’ ‘was ug sg pay the tent of their  offices, It was ‘there toré ahtageous : on the whole, -  evé i from the financial point of view aloné, tô house  permanent delégations and nor-goÿernmiental organi-  zations in the Headquarters building.  While aésthetic Sbjectious "had beci ‘raised with  rejard to the third mig to “the panel’ of five archi-  teijts had fuily reässurèd ose delegations’ which’ had  ex pressed Sore on thik à scère, :  The’ solution of crowding the Secretariat rey the"  main‘ building and waiting for a more favourablé time  ti build the third seeined to the Italian délégation"to  bé risky, ‘ Prices would have risén still further, and,  i} would be necessary’ té incur hekvy expenditure in’  . re-establishing the Heéadquibrters Corimittee, 1 restart-  ing building éperations and ‘iegotiating tiew agreements  contractors who would, in'all likelihood, né"  longer offer the taÿourable ferme which Uniescd was’  cufrently receiving. ’ ;  His ‘délegation’ took the iow that thé thiré biillding ©  should be ‘entirely reservad for’ the’ futiré expansion -  -Africañ Office of -  ICAO were to b7 housed therein, it would be impéssible  to dislodge if. when Unesco niéeded thé space it occu-  pied. He concluded by urging the Commission to  accept solution By and to Hequest the Director-General  Nis   v-11  to terminate negotiations with ICAO; he should no  longer consider himself morally obliged to house that  Organization at Unesco Headquarters.
(37) Mr. CABOUAT (France) said that, for all the’  reasons already expounded by several delegates, the  French representative cn the Y Headquarters Cémmit-  tee, and the French delegation, had also recommended  the canstruction of à third building, Should that  solution be adopted, the French Government would  undertake to examine the possibility of granting a  new loan for #3 construction.” He was not yet in a  position té state the terms of such a loan (duration,  rate of interest, etc.). The tèrms would have to be  negotiated between the French authorities and the  Director-General,  The "Comihission des Sites" and the Prefecture of  the Seine had pronouncéd in fayour of the construction  of a third building, while at the same time drawing the  attention of the French’ National Commission to the  problems that would arise in the district from the  considerable increase in the amount of motor traffic  resulting from thé installation of Unesco.  Mr. Cabouat asked the Director-General's opiriion on  the possibility, of establishing an underground garage  on the Unesco site in the near future.  Referring to the problem of housing the ICAO office,  he said that the French delegation was of the opinion  that it might be re-cxamined after a decision had  been taken by the Commission on the construction of  the third building.
(38) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL welcomed the most  generous attitude of the French Government regarding  the third building. He stated that the Secretariat was  well aware of the traffic problem and had given  serious consideration to it over a long period. He  had been urged to bring a proposal for an underground  garage before the Headquarters ‘Committee and the  General Conference, but, after some preliminary  studies had been made, he had decided to reserve that  problem for the future. He would, however, be glad  to continue consultation with the French authorities  on that subject.
(39) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Chiet, Bureau of Conference  Planning and General Services) said that the first  project for the site in the Maillot-D Dauphine “district  had included plans for an underground garage. But  that idea had been abandoned when it had been neces-  sary to cut down the estimates and, As a resuli, the  architects had made no provision for a garage in the  Place F'ontenoy project although the "Commission des  Sites" had stressed that it would be useful.  The question of an nnderground garage had been  thoroughly studied. Apart from the 120 cars which  could be parked at ground level, it was expected that,  in a few years, it would be necessary to provide  parking accommodation for about 300 extra cars daily.  Under the Piazza, the architects would be able to  arrangé for a one-floor garage with space for 400, or  a two-floor garage with space for 800 cars. The cost  would be a minimum of 1,000,000 French francs per  place. The cost of building a one-floor garage in the  basement would thus amount to 450,000,000 franca,  including a filling station and a workshop which would  be useful adjuncts. In order to repay an interest-free
582  ADMINIBTRATIVE COMMISSION  loan of that amount the Organization's budget would  have to set aside 15,000,000 francs snnually for a  period of thirty years,  Inquiries among large garages had provided ” ;  evidence for estimating the income from à service  station at between 5,000,000 and 6,000,000 francs a  year. In order to find the additional 9,000,000 francs,  parking space would have to be let to users at a rate of  at least 2,000 francs a month, But such a solution would  be hazardous as long as the French authorities did noi,  forbid free perking in the streets of the neighbourhogd,  The building of an underground garage therefore  depended on the possibility of finding an additional
9,000,000 francs annually for a period of thirty years,
(40) The CHAIRMAN called upon the representatives  of ICAO to address the meeting.
(41) Mr, ROY (International Civil Aviation Organi-  zation) stated that the proposal to accommodate ICAO  in Unesco's new building had been welcomed as beirg  likely to ensure greater co-ordination and co-opera-  tion between the two Organizations, Unesco's offer  had been received five yeara before, The events that  had since taken place weré reviewed in paragiaphs
26 to 30 ‘af dottirment 6C/ADM/ 10, : Referring to the  passage là paragiaph 28 which implied that Unesco  would havé to spend 47,000,000 French francs and  would get nothing for it, Mr: Roy pointéd out that  Unesco would in fact gain very substantially and would  not in any way be making’ à gramt-in-aid to ICAO, since  the latter was prepared to meet the full cost of  constructing the space which it required end Unenco  would retain the ownership of the building, -  As a matter of principle and palicy, it would no  doubt be agreed that there should be the fullest co-  operation between the Specialized Agencies, and to  allow ICAC space in Unesco's new building would be  one way of achieving that aim. ‘An arrangement ona  five-year rental basis would not be acceptable to  ICAO, since its office in Paris was a permanent one.  Mr. Roy therefore hoped that the agreement, with a
99-year lease, would be signed as soon as possible, so  that ICAO might secure a congenial home in Paris.
(42) Explaining the figure of $134,000 in paragraph
28, the DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that it represented  the cost of building foundations, pillars, etc. capable  of sustaining a four-storey building, but assuming that  construction would stop at the first floor, namely the  ICAO floor.
(43) Mr. SCOTT (Canada) stated that his’ dstegaticn  had strong doubts as to the wisdom of proceeding with  the third building for the time being, In the first  place, as the United ‘Kingdom delegate had said, Lo  further expansion of the Unesco staff was not désir-  able and would soon be arrested. Secondly, as it had  maintained in the United Nations, the Canadian delega-  tion considered that governments should provide their  own permanent delegates with accommodation. Thirdly,  although Canada appreciated the work done by the  international non-governmental organizations, they  were extremely numerous and, if Unesco started to  give theni office space, there seemed no reason why  it should stop; it would thus be in danger of becoming  a real-estate agency.   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  With rogard to ICHO, the Canadian Government was  concerned at the turn of evonts in the past few months;  it had assumed that the agreement had been worked  out and was About to be signed. It had been very .  pleased at the situation; since the arrangement would  mean an aconomiy for the 60 or more States members  of both organizations, Further, the Caxadian Govern-  ment knew that ICAO badly needed office space for its  ent RegionalOffice in Paris for Europe and  Africa, Many regional meetings could be held in  Paris if accommodation were available, Not only  would that be an advantage for ICAO, but it would also  help to justify the existence of the many conference  rooms which Unesco would certainly not use all the  time, .  Another reason why the Canadian Government  would welcome the arrangement was that it would  entail a reduction of administrative overheads; as in  the "Palais des Naticns" in Geneva, common  services could be shared.  Although Mr. Scott had said initially that his  Government had doubts as to the wisdom of proceeding  with the third building, Unesco undoubtedly had a  responsibility towards ICAO. Canada would therefore  agree to the solution of allowing ICAO to proceed with  the construction of the first floor of the third building,  the ownership being vested in Unesco. Canada would  also agree to Uñesco's spending the amount necessary  for the foundations.
(44) Mr. MUNRO (Australis) agreed with the dele-  gate of Canada that it would be unwise to proceed with  a third building at the stage reached, but that ICAO  should bé allowed to build the accommodation which it  required on Uñesco's land. The question of adding  another three floors to the third building could be  considered at a later stage.
(45) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL hoped that the  Canadian and Australian delegates were riot proposing  that ICAO be authorized to do the actual building, as  Unesco had a whole team assembled and ICAO had not  foreseen such an eventuality. He supposed that their  proposal was to add a sub-paragraph (d) authorizing  the Director-General to proceed with the construction  of the foundations of a four-storey building, but, for  the time béing; building only one fléor.  With regard to the five-yeér lease, it was not  intended to exclude the possibility that the Conference  might adopt the recommendation in sub-paragraph (c);  it was merely a question of an attempt to see whether,  if the third building were constructed, ICAO would be  satistied with that alternative. There was rio question  of substituting it for the original agreement, but the  Director-General had been unable to sign that agree-  ment, because hé would not commit the Organization  beyond the sum authorized.  Lastly, he emphasized that there had never been  any question of accommodating ICAO in the main  Secretariat building, but, even if the third building  were not constructed, ICAO could still use Unesco's  conference halls.
(46) Mr, PARRA -PEREZ (Venezuela) (Chairman of  the Headquarters Committée) suid that he was speak-  ing in the dual rôle of Chairmen of the Headquarters  Committee and leader of the Venezuelan delegation.
583  v-11  He was doing so with the assent of his lellow members  of the delegation who were members of the Admini-  strative Commission, FET 98 A  As Chairman of the Hendquartèrs Committee, he  was surprised at the objections raised with regard  to the construction of the third building, without  regard to the need to house therein the perminent  delegations of Member States. ‘The point had been  thoroughly. studied by the Committee, which had  devoted at least one meeting tô it, in consideration of  the fact that it was in Unesco's interest to maintain  close contact with the delegations - the best way of  doing which was to house them in the same building,  There was no question of giving them hospitality in  any way, since it was provided that they would pay the  rent of the offices they occupied,  There was no doubt that, in deciding on the extension  of building, it was necessary to consider the increased  needs of the Secretariat, the desirability of houaing  ICAO and representatives of non-governmental orga-  nizations and, what was more, the needs of the perma-  nent delegations of Membsr States. It was also  necessary to bear in mind the current accommodation  problem in Paris, The situation of the Unesco dele-  gations could not be compared with that of the delega-  tions - truly embassies - representing countries at  the United Nations, - Venezuela's delegation to that  organization cost the Government of Venezuela double  what its Embassy in Paris cost. -  With regard to the proposal that a building to house  ICAO be erected only, which would later bé enlarged  to meet future needs, the speaker said that anyone had  only to read the report of his Committee to realize  the enormous increase in costs that postponement  would entail, CL .  To sum up, the Head fers Committee had dis-  cussed the point exhaustively and had come to the  conclusion that the adoption of añe of the solutions  put forward should be recommended. The General  Conference would have to decide.  Speaking in his capacity as a Venezuelan delegate,  Mr. Parra-Perez advocated the construction of the  third building, as it was, in his opinion, the best  solution from the point of view of Unesco's objectives,  its material interests and its current needs.
(47 Mr. TRUEBLOOD (United States of America)  inquired how much space ICAO would require. He  wished to know how many employees ICAO had, and  whether it had any problems of future expansion,
(48) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Chief, Bureau of Conference  Planning and General Sérvices), described ICAO's  requirements for its Européan-African Office: offices  for 27 people (one Head, four officials of grades P.4  and P.3, four other officials of grade P.3, eighteen  secretaries and clerks), one meeting-room and one  library (25 to 30 places) and one reception hall;  second-catégory premises for machines for the  reproduction of documents, stocks of publications,  archives and equipment; and, in addition, parking  space for twelvé cars.
(49) The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Commission  vote first on the general principle of whether or not  it favoured the construction of a third building, ‘If it  did not, the question would be resolved. If it did, ft   v.12  would have fo thké up paragraph 41, subparagraphs  (b) dnd (¢) and probe ‘which solution it midds” ;  recominend to the Conference, ;  : ort ta wi
(50) Mi, POMPEI (aly) censidéé ing the importance  of the quéstion dnd the relatively small number of-  delegations represented at the meeting; wondered - -  whether the discussion had been us thorough as it  deserved and therefore proposed that it be adjourned  to the following morning.    ADMINISTRATIVE COMMIBBION
(61) Mr, de HOOG (Netherlands) feared that the time  would be tod short to inform the delegations which +,  were not represented and to carry out the necessary.  exchanges of views! He therefore moved that the  inesting be adjourned till the following afternoon.  (sa) The motion to séjour was adopted.  The meeting rose ats p.m.  TWELFTH MEETING -
16 November 1936, at 10, 30 a.m,  Chairman:  ITEM 13.1 OF THE AGENDA} PERSONNEL POLICY: ab. at  APPOINTMENT, OBLIGATIONS AND NIGHTS OF STAFF MEMEERS |  (continued) (documents 9c/ADW/T and Ames 0G/DR/ 08: 0C/DR/44)  ' [34  a) “The CHAIRMAN announced ‘that a à draft resolution  - had been presented by the delegations of Ecuador, .  Spain, Uruguay, Greece, Chile and Peru, following the  discussion in Administrative Commission of Part I  of document 9C/ADM/7. . That draft resolution  (dcoument 9C/DR/84) had been distributed and he :  would open discussion thereon before proceeding with  Part I of the document. -
(2) ‘The DIRECTOR-GENERAL noted that the word  "economic" in the last line of the second paragraph in  the English text should Toad "financial". ;
(3) ‘Mr. MARTINEZ COBO (Evade), sold à ent the’  countries sponsoring the draft resolution were pro- -  pounding a view that had been put forward on other  occasions, namely that, in the allocation of posts in ;  the Secretariat, not aly the financial contribution ¢ of  the different countries but also the intellectual capa-  bilities of candidates should be taken into considera-  tion. . In his opinion, thy recruitment of staff for a  cultural organization should not be based on financial  considerations, and the \imit for a country’s repres-  _ entation should not be f od at less than five staff  members. He added thai à word was missing from -  the second paragraph of the’ diaft resolution, in the’  Spanish text, which should read "., . por io menos  cinco  funolonarios cualquiera que ses =..." instead  of". : por lo menos cinco funcionarios que sea su ,
(4) “Mr. FARR (Chief, B Bufqau ok Personnel and ”  Management) said that the Secretariat's ant of  the representation of Member States on the staff was  not, in fact, made solely in terms of their financial  contribution, tothe Organisation. The quota system’  was merely used as a guide for’ ‘assessing the relative  representation of Member States on the staff, snd
584  Mr. DAVIES (Australia)  Loe arts an  either the United Nations 76 iy. of its Specialized’,  Agencigs considered init à près ber State. ve sai  represented if ft had only fab tidal on the staff,  even if that one ‘post could be said to ‘correspond to  the representatior level warkanted by that Member,  State's financial contrik to Uriéséo. Furthermere,  if the figure of five staff members’ suggested in the .  last paragraph of the draft resolution were multiplied  by the, total punmber of Meéxaber St tes, i.e, by 79, the  figura reached would exceed the number of professional  porsé available for ‘geographical distribution. - However,  the Secretariat accepted thé ‘principle of the draft  resolution and was vor In agreement with the ©  sponsors that every, or} should continue to be made  to improve the ge aphical distribution of o portf  between au Member siéger.  T “rite
(6). Me: se  explain tha A] à psp of the re  dem edd ‘représentation on the Serta  of five ps members for eyery pountry, but to go¢  that a country wag ? hot cuinted. às over: “represented  ‘five of ite natio  ai féshlar Ierely i wished te.  e resqlution was not to  until it had at lens “h t 8 on the  . He wanted to make it Shear al t the propogal was  ‘not intended : as a substitute or that which had been g  submitted. a few days putin requésting tie _-  Director er to do evé possible to ensure,  more équital 1 eographical distribution.  ©) | Mes, ign (Asie ‘paproduéd | his’ ‘deidé gaie  support for the draft resolution, espec in view of.  the assurances giyen by, Mr: Fair. ‘He also shared ‘  the view of the delegate of  Spain that a Member State’  should nok necessarily be regarded as being over-, °  represented if it had five nationals od the staff. He }  would merely propose that the word "bétter"” ir the  second paragraph-of the English text be replaced by  "adequate'. ; a LL ; ;     - () The sponsors of the “draft résolution ivet-  cated | that the word "adequate" correnp: ded