ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISBION  FIFTEENTH MEETING
21 November 19056, at 3.30 p.m,  Chairman: Mr, DAVIES (Australia)  later: Mr, SAVAIN (Haiti)  ITEM 13.3 OF THE AGENDA : MEDICAL BENEFITS SCHEME  (continued) (documents 9C/ADM/9 and Corrigendum)  {1) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the debate on the  Medical Benefits Scheme had been adjourned to allow  delegates time to consider whethér the two  members working on thé scheme should be included  in Unesco's budget or paid out of the Medical Benefits  Fund, À United States Proposal to the effect that the  staff members concerited be included in the budget,  on the understanding that the Fund would subsequently  reimburse the Organization, provided that it did not  jeopardize the Fund's reserve, had led to the  adjournment of the debate,
(3) Mr, HARPER- SMITH (Comptroller) drew the  Commission's attention to the resolution in paragraph
12 of document 9C/ADM/9. He explained that, as à  result of the United Statés proposal, the amendment  to Article X of the Regulations of the Fund, proposed  in paragraph (iv) of the resolution in the Corrigendum,  had been withdrawn. He inquired whether that solution  satisfied the United States delegation.
(3) Miss LAISE (United States of America) pointed  out that the resolution in paragraph 12 of document
8C/ADM/9 contained no reference to the importance  of not jeopardizing the Fund's reserve.
(4) MF. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) therefore  proposed the following amendment: at the end of sub-  paragraph (iv) on page 3 of document 9C/ADM/9, the  following words would be added: "provided that the  amount of the reserve shall not bo less than the  balance standing at 31 December 1856",
(5) with the above amendment, the resolution was  unanimously adopted. .  ITEM 13.2 OF THE AGENDA ; PERSONNEL POLICY : SALARIES  AND ALLOWANCES (documents 9C/ADM/8 and Addendum 1)  {6) Introducing the documents, Mr, ADISESHIAH  (Assistant Director-General) drew the Commiasion's  attention to the Executive Board's comments on the  subject in paragraphs 14 to 21 of document 9C/5  Addendum 1 (pages 4 and 5). He explained that, when  the Board had considered the matter at its 44th  session, it had not had before it the information  given in document 9C/ADM/8 Addendum 1.
(7 Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) informed members of the Commission  that they could concentrate on document 9C/ADM/8  Addendum 1, containing the report by the Director-  General which the Board had called for at its 44th  session.
603     Part ! - Salary and allowance system for staff in the  General Services category at Headquarters  (paragraphs 1 to 22)
(8) Mr, FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) outlined the main points in Part I of the  document before the Commission.  {9) Mrs. HEFFELFINGER (United States of America)  announced that her delegation saw little justification  for maintaining Unésco's salaries at a raté higher  than thé best prevailing rates in the Paris area, A  definite policy on those lines encouraged cher organi-  zations to raise’their salaries periodically in order  to keep level with Unesco, and the latter was then  tempted to raise its own salaries again, The reault  was an upward spiral of salaries in the Paris area,  As a solution, the United States delegation proposed  that, for the next few years, the level of Unesco's  salaries be raised less rapidly than that of organiza-  tions paying the best prevailing rates, so that the  margin between the two would gradually be reduced.
(10) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) associated  himself with the remarks made by the delegate of the  United States of America, It was felt in the United  Kingdom that document 9C/ADM/8 Addendum'1 failed  to make out a ‘convincing case for maintaining salaries  of Unesco staff in the General Services category at a  rate higher than the best prevailing rates in the Paris  area, Paragraphs iè and 19 of the report ‘provided  no evidence that recruitment would suffer acutely if  the margin between Unesco salaries and the best  prevail rates were reduced. Governments, such  as that of the United Kingdom, which belonged to the  North Atlantic Treaty Orgenization and the Organiza-  tion for European Economic Co-operation as well as  to Unesco, were not prepared to offer the latter a  permanent advantage over the other organizations.  Mr. Arthur wondered what would happen if the ;  Directors-General of all the organisations informed  their member governments that they were obliged to  maintain a lead over the best prevailing rates in their  Headquarters area, The situation would become  completely impossible. |  The United Kingdom delegation therefore wished  to move an amendment on the following lines to the  Director-General's draft resolution in paragraph 21  on page 8 of document 8C/ADM/6 Addendum 1:  "The General Conference  Instructe the Director-General to consider from |  time to time the need for revisions in the local .  salary scale (ss à result of changes of not less than
6 per cent in best prevailing rates in the Paris area  as from 1 January 1057), in order to maintain parity  between the Unesco rates and the best prevailing rates.  Decides that any salary adjustments made under   I  ‘  v-15 A ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  this resolution sh  Executive Board,"  be subject to the approval of the
(11) Mr, ADISESH. AH (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that the Director-General agreed with the  motive underlying the ‘proposals of thé United States  and United Kingdom delegations, since he aimed at  reducing the marginbetween Unesco salaries and the  best prevailing rates progressively, He was net,  howeyer, proposing parity, because the best prevailing  rates were calculatet by taking the average of salaries  paid by six outside ein ployers | in the Paris area, some  of whom paid higher Fates than the North Atlantic  Treaty Organization and the Organization for European  Economic Co-operatibn, . If, therefore, Unesco's  saleries were broug info line with that a verage, i.e  withi the best prevaillr rates, the. Organization. would  be paying salaries lower than those of certain other  employers in the Parid area, , That wes a situation  which the: Diredtor-G val col id net accept, either  from the point of view, been done in the  past, or from that of data f the highes standsrds  of efficiency and integrity among Unesco’s staff. Re  did not interpret the words "to revises the local salary  scale when necessary" to mean that he should wait  until staff members resigned because they felt that  their salaries were inadequate.
(12). Mr, CLARK (Cahada) drew attention to two  points, both of which hid been raised by the Exécutive  Board. The first was the differénce which had existed  since 1951 between the level ‘of Utiesco's local  salaries and that of the best prevailing rates in the  Paris area, The delegations of the United States of  America ‘and the United Kingdom had presented a very  good case for bringing Unesco's salaries into line  with the best prevailing rates and the Canadian  delegation’ agreed that there was little justification for  giving Unesco an advantage over other international  organizations,  The Board's second point related to the disadvan-  tages of applying a uniform’ ratée of increase regardless  of the grade concerned, The Canadian delegation  agreed with the Board that the Director-General  should bé left latitude in that'respect, because some  of the beat rates might change moré radically than  others and it would then be impossible for the Orgari-  zation to adhere to the principle of paying the best  prevailing rates, while at the same time making  uniform adjustments.
(13) Mr, FARR (Chief, Bubéaù of Personnel and”.  Manàgement) pointed ‘Gut that thé last sentence of tic  “United Kingdom amendment was unñecessarÿ, because  the Secretariat had already proposed that resolution
23.29 of the seventh session be maintained; the last  sentencé nf that resolution read: Any adjustments  to salaries or allowances made by the Director-  Generali shall be subject to the approval of the  Executive Board."
(14) Agreeing with Mr. Farr, Mr. ARTHUR (United  Kingdom) withdrew the last sentence of his arnendment.
(15) Mr, DEBEAUVAIS (France) could not see the  point of the United Kingdom amendment. The  Assistant Director-General had stated that the long-
604     term aim of thé administration was to bring local  salaries into line with the best prevailing rates in the  Paris area, an “object which appeared to be exactly  ‘the same as thit of the British'and United States ,  proposal. The only difference seemed to be the rate  at which the operation should be carried out. If it" ~  were decided that the alignment should be made when  the next salary revision took place, it should be  realized that some salaries would in actual fact be  reduced, The French delegation emphasized that it  would be contrary to all administrative practice, and,  indved unjust; not to recognize the principle of  acquirzd righte, The Director-General's proposal  was the more reasonable one,
(16) The CHAIRMAN remarked that his understanding  of the Director-General's proposal was not quite the  same as that of the French delegation, He believed  that the Director-General intended to maintain some  margin,
(17) Mr. FARR (Chief, Buresu of Personnel and  Management) confirmed that the Director-General  i'certainly wished to be free to maintain à margin. On  the other hand, he proposed gradually to reduce that  margin below the existing level of 9 per cent; that  could be done if he were not obliged, when making ad  adjustment ‘following « change of not less than 5 per °  cent in best prevailing rates, to make it as much as '  that percentage. ’  Mr. Farr asked the delegate of the United Kingdom  whether his amendment implied that, next time there‘  was an increase of not less than 5 per cent in the be  prevailing rates, the Director-General was to bring  Unesco's scale into line with those rates, which might  well mean reducing existing salaries.  i
(18) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) answered’ that’  his amendment did not imply à decrease in existing”  salaries, It merely aimed at a general tapering off .  of the inargin, so that Unesco would hot be perinan- :  ently at an advantage. To make that clear, he would -  change his amendment to read; "The General Con-  ference instructs the Director-General to consider  from time to titane the need for revisions in the local  salary scale .... with a view, in due course, to  reaching reasonsble parity between Unesco rates and  the best prevailing rates.’
(19) Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) hoped that the Chatrtian would not call for  a vote immediately on’ tli¢ amendment submitted by ‘‘  the United Kingdom delegate, which raised an import:  ant and complicated problem. ‘ Iri fact, that amendment  concerned a question of principle; it attempted | to :  introduce a new principle into Unesco à general Said  on staff salaries: It should therefore bé discussed id  terms of fundamental principles.’ The Soviet deléga-  tion was algo concerned about thé fact that the amend-  ment might in practice lead to a lowering of locsl  staff palaries. The Soviet delegation therefore asked  that the amendment be submitted in written form.
(20) The CHAIRMAN announced that the representa  tive of the Staff Association had requested per- -  mission to address the Commission on the subject -  under discussion. If the Commission had no   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  objection, the Chairman would ask him to do so.
(21) Mrs, HEFFELFINGER (United States of America)  proposed that the representative of the Staff À ssocia-  tion be asked to submit his statement in writing, before  making it orally,
(23) Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  wished to point out that the United States proposal  would involve producing yet another document in four  languages and postponing the whole issue until a later  meeting of the Commission.  {23) The CHAIRMAN remarked that, in any case, the  Comission would have to comply with the Soviet  delegation's request to have the United Kingdom  amendment in writing, He thought, however, that the  Coramission might vote forthwith on the principle  either of maintaining a margin between Unesco  salaries and the best prevailing rates, or of tapering  off that margin in order gradually to bring Unesco's  salaries into line with the best prevailing rates,
(24) Mr, ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist |  Republics) thought the procedure suggested by the  United States delegation needed changing, and that the  Commission should first hear the statement of the  representative of the Staff Association, which could  subsequently be distributed to the members of the  Commission in written form. In that way, the  members of the Commission would be able to learn  the views of the Staff Association on the question  before beginning to discuss it,
(25) Mrs. HEFFELFINGER (United States of America)  announced that her delegation would not press for a  written statement in the current instance. It requested,  however, that, at future sessions of the General  Conference, such a statement be produced, in similar  cases, prior to the oral address.
(26) The CHAIRMAN was sure that the Secretariat  would take note of the request. He called on the  representative of the Staff Association to make his  statement.
(27) Mr, HENQUET ‘(Representative of the Statt  Association), after. thanking the Commission and its  Chairman for authorizing him to speak, apologized for  not having been able to submit a written document on  bebalf of the Staff Association. He explain led that he  had wished to refer to the Tecommendations oni the  same subject formulated by the ‘Federation of Inter-  national Civil Servants’ Associations (FICSA) but  had received the text only on the previous day.’ ‘He  “begun by making two preliminäry observations.’  In the first place; the Yemarks he wished to make  were in no way mere wage claims. They were  concerned quité as much with the true interests of  the Organization, which demanded the recruitment of  & body of civil servants of the highest degree of  competénce and integrity, as with the interests of  staff members.  Secondly, in spite of the division of the staff into  two categories, decided upon at the fifth session of the  General Conference, the members of the Secretariat  all had the same obligations, and the same standards
605  V«à5  of recruitment and employment were applicable  to all, - te  Mr, Henquet' s subsequent remarks were submitted  under three heads; :  A. Principles and methods employed in the revision  of local salaries. .  The local salary acele was based on the ‘principle  of best prevailing local conditions and should corres-  pond to the best rates in the Paris area, In applying  that principle, international organizations in general,  and Unesco in partioular, encountered certain  difficulties. :  The first difficulty was that of interpretation, con-  cerning the sense given to the superlative employed  in the Conference's resolutions on the matter. That  question was raised in document 9C/ADM/8,  Addendum 1, in connexion with the maintenance of the  margin between the average of the best prevailing  local rates and Unesco salaries. -  There were also technical difficulties ‘arising out  of the differsnt methods of investigation followed by  the various international organizations, Such diffi-  culties arose chiefly in the choice of the representa-  tive group of employers tor. ‘the purposes of comparison.  In order to solve those difficulties, the Staff Asso-  ciation, in agreement with the Council of FICSA,  considered that it would be desirable to introduce a  system slightly different from that currently in force.  The following modifications would be necessary for  that purpose:  (a) Consideration of a general definition of "best  prevailing local rates” that would take into considera-  tion not only the level of salaries, but also the  additional allowances or facilities granted by the local  employers offering the most favourable conditions of  employment. .  (b) A periodical general survey - e.g. ‘once every  five years or more often should it be deemed  necessary of the local position, ‘enabling the best  prevailing local conditions to be dccurately determined.  In practice, “the Staff Association, on the basis’ of  the expérieñcé ‘aéquired by the Joint Committee on  Salariés set up, by the Director-General, was of the  opinion that à group ‘ot any six employers ‘would suffice  for the purposes of investigation, provided that the  employers’ ‘concerned competed with Unesco in  recruiting staff,’ ris  In‘the same way, } he existence ‘of some margin  ) between the à erage "of beat’ prevailing rates and  Unesco salariés appéared. tobe cedsary to ensure  that Unesco would have én advantage’ over competing  employers in the choice” of staff and to take account  of the difficulties involved in the accurate assessment  of the most favourable’ conditions” of employment, as  ancilidry advantégés; not alweys expressed in terms  of money, were often ädded to nominal salaries. -  (c) - In thé intervals between such perfodic reviews,  salaries should bé relatéd té the’ variations of a cost-  of-living index, either an official French index or that  recommended by the United Nations committee of  eleven experts for Professional salaries.  B. The question of a career :  Although local staff were usually’ appointed tor an  indeterminate period and therefore had grounds for  hoping to make a career in the Secretariat, their  possibilities of advancement were in fact restricted  and they quickly reached the ceiling of their grade,   vV-15 ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  To remedy that situation, the Staff Association  suggested the adoption of the following measures:  (a) Increase in the number of within: grade incre-  ments, so as to spread the regular increase of local  salaries over a longer period of years;  {b) Coupling of grades for posts in the local staff  category, as the Committee of eloven experts had  proposed for certain Profeasional grades, 50 as to  give officials whose work had been particularly  ‘satisfactory the Ô ity of advancement;  (c) Easier promotion of the bést qualified merhbers  the local staff to the Professional category.  The application of the three series of mespures  d be co-ordinated and facilitated by the institution  a "promotion table" similar to those used in a  © number of national government services,  C| The position of staff recruited béfore 18 June 1950  His final rémarks applied to the special position of  a pertain num r, of the senior members of the local  category.  In accordante witli the resalutions adopted by the  General Conference at its fifth and seventh sessions,  staff recruited before June 1950 had had their salaries  frozen at the last step in their grade althokgh, in some  cases; a special allowance had been granted to a  certain number of them go ks to give them a ceiling  equal to that which they would have been able to attain  as at 31 December 1950,  That situation was to endure until the stabilization  of the best prevailing rates in the Paris area made it  possible to apply the aforementioned adjustments to  base salaries. In prictice, ‘the effect of those  measures had been’ to deprive - either wholly or in  part - the dategory’ of staff concerned of the last 7  per cent incresse granted by the Executive Board.  The Staff Association appreciste the fact that the  situation was à special one, and that arguments of  equal weight could be advanced in support of opposing  theses. Névertheless, the fact wis that the staff  members’ concerned hed had no increase since 1950,  and in scané cases, since 1649, Their standard of  living had therefore been lowered considérably.  _ The Staff Association would therefore ‘propose that  a compromise solution be adopted, which might, for  instance, consist in .extending the period for assimi-  lating those salaries to thé local salarÿy acale by  granting a lower percentage increase in the former  case than in the latter whenever increases were  authorized by the Executive Board,  Mr. Henquet pointed out that the adoption of the  measures proposed under heading B would automati-  cally solve the problem.  In conclusion, he expressed the hope that the  Administrative Commission would take the, Stait  Association's views into consideration in examining  the question of salaries. He would be happy to have  helped, even if only lu a slight measure, to make the  Commission's task sasier,
(28) Mrs. HEFFELFINGER (United States of America)  asked if it would be possible fur a summary of  Mr. Henquet's statement to be circulated as soon as  possible in writing.
(29) The CHAIRMAN inquired whether the United  States delegate would be satisfied with the account of  Mr. Henquet's statement which would appear in the  .prevalling rates.     summary record, If so, he suggested that the dis-  cussion be adjourned until the Friday afternoon, when  the summary record would be available,
(30) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) hoped tha the Chiet  of the Bureau of Personnel would comment, from the  administration's point of view, on the statement  submitted on behalf of the Staff Association.  ’ ia) }  - (31) Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) explained that the Director-General  considered that to mix up the two methods of basing  the salary scale on the best prevailing rates and  making cost-of-living adjustments would create a real  problem. In his view, increases should be based on  one or the other, and he would prefer to take the best  prevailing rates. Di that case, it would be impossible  for him to adjust salaties to changes in the cost of  living.  With regard to the proposal to add five within-grade  steps, the Director-General felt that the possibilities  of making à caréer in Unesco were perhaps a little  understated. Thé local salary scale provided for  annual ingréments over à period of {en yéars; thus,  people who had served for a certain number of years  were bélrig paid well in comparison with the best  Mr, Farr did nôt think that there  was any administration in the world which’ set no  ceiling on promotion’ within a given grade, If the  Director-General ag reed to ‘add another’ five steps,  there was no reason wh he’ ‘should stop thère.  As for the proposdl regarding promotion frém: oné  grade té another in the Genéral Service category on  the basis of outstanding merit, Mr. Farr pointed out  that the United Nations Salary Review Committee did  not actually ‘Yfecommend that practice for thé Profes-  sional grades. V/hät it had said was that it would see  no objectièn to other Agencies following the example  of the International Labour Organisation , which had  adopted that practice.  Lastly, the Director-General fully recognized the  situation of pre- -Flôrence staff members, but did not  wish tô make any recommendation to thé Commission  on the lines proposed by the Staff Association. It was  clearly the intention of the General Conference that  the difference between pre-Florence and post-Florence  staff should disappear; the system of personal  allowances had existed for six years and the Director-  General did not wish to see it prolonged.
(32) The CHAIRMAN asked if the Commission would  agres to adjourn the debate until the Friday afternoon.
(33) Mr, CLARK (Canada) suggested that, since the  statement of the representative of the Staff Association  ralsed a number of complicated problems, a small  working party might be set up to study them and also  to consider the United Kingdom amendment.
(34) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  said that, from the Secretariat's point of view, it  would be most undesirable to set up another working  party.
(35) Mr, ARTHUR (United Kingdom) observed that  some of the points raised by the Staff Association  were not relevant to the item of the agenda before the   ADMINIBTRATIVE COMMISSION  Commission. His delegation was not prepared to _;  discuss them unless they were officially idded to the  Commission's agenda. He therefore proposed that  the representative of the Staff Association he asked  to prepare à one-page summary of his statement,  confining his remarks to matters which hed a direct  bearing oû the one point before the Commission,  namely the movement of salariés on the basis of the  best prevailing ratés in the Paris area.
(36) Agreeing with the delegate of the United Kingdom,  the CHAIRMAN suggested that long-term problems  irrelevant to the item of the agenda before the  Commission might be referred to the Executive Board.
(37) It was agreed to adjourn the debate until the  Friday afternoon, when the summary record and the  United Kingdom amendment would be available in  writing.  (Mr. Savain (Haiti) took the Chair.)  ITEM 15,1 OF THE AGENDA: QUADRENNIAL REVIEW OF THE  LIST OF INTERNATIONAL NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS  APPROVED FOR CONSULTATIVE ARRANGEMENTS WITH UNESCO  (document 9C/ADM/15 and 9C/ ADM/ 18)
(38) The CHAIRMAN called on the representative of  the Executive Board to outline the latter's views on  the question of Unesco's relations with international  non-governmental organizations,  {39) Mr. VERONESE (Italy) (Representative of the  Executive Board) stressed that Unesco'e policy of co-  operation with the organizations concerned was one  of the main problems before the Conference. It was  for thé Conference: - (a) to make a quadrennial review  of the Directives concerning Unesco! s relations with  non-governmental orfanizations; (b) to make a  quadrehnial review of the list of non-governmental  organizations approved for consultative arrangements,  on the basis of those Directives; '(c) to decide on  applications for admission to such arrangements  submitted by new organizatione; . : ‘  ‘Document 9C/ADM/15 would serve as the basis for  ‘the review described under (b), It had beén based on  documentation supplied by thé organizations themselves  and supplemented in the light of the Secretariat's:  ‘experience in its relations with such organizations,  But the Executive Board, considering that the informa-  tion contained therein did not enable'a true assessment  to be made of the practical value of the relations  between the Secretariat and each of thé organizations  ‘concerned; had decidéd to request the Director-General  to carry out a critical survey of those relations, not  only because the Secretariat had not been in à position  to do so, but mainly because the Directives were to be  amended at the current session and it was therefore  necessary to consider each case in the light of the
607     v-15  new situation resulting from the amendments made.  The revised Directives, as submitied to the  Conference by the Director-General on the Board's  recanmerndation, were contained in document
9C/ADM/19, Mr, Vermnese therefore suggested that  the Commission, before studying the list of inter-  national non-governmental organizations and the new  applications for admission to consultative  arrangements, examine the revised Directives and  therefore begin by considering document
9C/ADM/19, :
(40) The CHAIRMAN, after thanking the representa-  tive of the Executive Board for his explanation, asked  whether the Commission agreed to begin with an  examination of document 9C/ADM/19.
(41) In reply to Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics), the CHAIRMAN explained that,  while consideration of the documant was not included  in the agenda of the current meeting, it would be  advisable to study it, as recommended by the repres-  entative of the Executive Board, before proceeding to  an examination of document 9C/ADM/15.
(42) As no objections were raised by the Commission,  Mr: VERONESE (Italy) (Representative of the  Executive Board) traced the history of the work and  discussions that had resulted in the proposals  contained in the document (paragraphs 1 to 5). He  emphasized that the amendments proposed by the  Director-General had the full support cf the Executive  Board. . : R  So far as the content of the text was concerned, he  made only a general observation to the effect that,  " during the whole course of its labours, it had always  been the Board's opinion that, while the Directives  were of vital importance, the methods of applying  them were still more important, While a rule was  required, the main thing was to apply ‘it well. On that  question it was possible that the Administrative  Commission and the Conference might have additional  recommendations to submit to the Director-General,
(43) Mrs. HEFFELFINGER (United States of America)  said that, as the item was not on the Commission's  agenda, her delegation would be unsble to take part  in the discussion. She proposed adjournment of the  debate.
(44) The CHAIRMAN said that, although the  Commission had appeared tô ‘sccept the principle of  studying document 8C/ADM/19, he thought it would,  none the leas, be reagonable to accede to the wishes  of the United States delegation,” Discussion on item
16.1 was therefore adjourned until the following  morning.  The meeting rose at 5.40 p.m,