1 December 1956, at 3.18 p.in.  Chairman: Mr. ANAS (Afghanistan)  later: Mre. MYRDAL (Sweden)  Draft resolutions 9C/DR/78 and sc/DR/115  (continued) - ;  : (1) The CHAIRMAN ‘Informed the. Commission that.  the Assistant Diréctor-General wished to ask for an  explanation on the vote taken by the Commission two  days previously on the Itslo-French draft resolution -  a combination of documents 9C/DR/T8 and 115 - which  had been unenimously adopted. .
(2) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Direc  out that, on 29 November, in’ connexion with em
9.5.4 of the revised agenda; | the Costmaiasich had  examined he Italian and French à aft resoluti yori  (documents 9C/DR/78 and 9C/D 1181 s Feipe y).  relating to the projection of children from the possible  adverse influence of press, film, radio and feléyision.  During the ‘dieçusaion the French résolution had been  converted into an amendment to the Italian proposal,  and the Commission had adopted unanimously, with  two abstentions, the text of the lialian draft as.  amended by France. The ‘Secretariat had under  that; while ‘the original Kalian £ agit vire  budgetary increase ki $is 136, e amended | ice  had no budgetary im, plications.  iv  its otation was mistaken French  es vus Adlon 45 die TAL14h vent and n'à  . e for it. The Corinission would thérefore  have to decide on that point and 'say whether it wished  to approve Be, additional allocation.  ee Moe ae aay Sere
3) 7 Mr, ; oki . ÿ ï eu ; A KA te is in cL 4 Te  amendmer was € ciginail y losigned | substitute  new text for the Ita ons, the Fr F sach dalogaticn ind  the same time maintaining the last paragraph of its  own draft resolution or, in other words; adding a  paragraph to the Halian draft resaiution. The text ot  the amended resolution had been drawn up jointly by  the two delegations bu  it appeared that the Secretar-  jat's interpretation had not taken into account the fact  that the French delegation had withdrawn all the parts  : of its original draft which were in conflict with the  terms of .the lalian resalution. He pointed out that he  had spoken before the vote had been taken in order to  : clear up any misunderstanding and that no objection  had been raised at that time, : :  . He went on to explain why the. ‘budgetary implications  of the. proposal had n t been estimated in the Italien  - draft; it followed on from an investigation that Unesco  had been conducting for four years, which the General  - Conference had discussed on two occasions sod which  * had led to the, convening of a committee of experts.  That committee's conclusions however, so far as the  . budget was affected, had been formulated too late for  inclusion in the draft resolution submitted by his  Dire tor-General) pointed  rte Italian and French  delegations had informed the Secretariat; however, that
512  delegation, ‘The experts were unanimous in their  belief that a specialized body should be established for  the problem under consideration, and the Secretariat,  could not have been unaware that such a project would  entail financial commitments, After carrying out such  ‘a thorough preparatory. investigation, Unesco could not  now assert that it would take no further interest in the  practical action, the absolute necessity for which bad  emerged from the investigation. Mr. Calo therefore  felt that, as the Commission had already made a defi-  nite decision on the principle, it should now decide on  the budgetary implications of the proposal.
(4) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) stated that his delegation  pres nine supported the Italian delegate’s  attitude. ;
(6) Miss FIELD (United Kingdom) ssid that, however  many meetings of experts there had been, their  findings ware not binding on the Organization.  Another group of experts might easily have given  different advice. In her opinion the two groups which  had met in Paris should be considered quite  independently,
(6). Me. LEE (United States of America) did not  discount experts, quite as much as the ‘delegate : of Be.  United Kingdom; he thought the Commission!»  decision should be based on their advice, which had.  been conservative. His recollection was that dogu-; i  ment 9C/DR/178, as amended by document, 9C/DR/115,  had been adopted without any budgetary implications.  (N° Mr. ‘THOMAS (Asaistint Difector Genera) |,  explained that the Italian draft resolution added to ite  programme submitted by the Director-General Jan  establishment of à new section in the Cioéring H se;  of the Department of Masa Communication,  the cost would be in the neighbourhood of ‘818,000. °  The Commission therefore had to decide whether it  wanted to devote the above sum to that activity which  it had already spproved in principle.
(8) Mr. CALO (italy) ‘pointed out that the Commission  had «i several occasions approved projects with ‘  budgctary implications on which the Director -General  had made an adverse recommendation, When the  immense importance of the project for the education  of children wag taken into account, the budgetary. -  implications appeared to be extremely modest and he  hoped that Unesco would not disappoint the hopes ¢ of  . parents and teachers,
(9) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the provision of  $18,136 proposed by the Director-General.
(10) The above allocation was approved -by the   PROGRAMME  ‘Commission by 11 votes to 9; with 14  TEM 9.6 OF THE AGENDA : EXCRANGE OF PERSONS (continued)  . “ (documents 90/6 aad fddands aad Corrignade)
(11) Mra. KAKA (Poland) said that her delega-  tion would like to have an opportunity of discussing  the activities of the Exchange of Persons Service as  a whole.  u2) The CHATRMAN ruled that Chapter 6 would be  discussed section by section, in order to expedite  the Commission's work.
(13) The introduction - paragraphs 1 to 12 - was  spproved,
6.1 Clearing House and Advisory Services  (paragraphs 13 to 51)
(14) Mr, HACQUAERT (Belgium) , ; commenting on  paragraph 45 (Travel Abroad - Frontier Formalities)  pointed out that the periodical in ‘question was brought  out with the assistance of the International Union of  Official Travel Organisations, and that the amount of  the contracts entered into with the latter body had been  cut from $10,000 to $7,000, That decision had given  rise to a number of difficulties for the Union, which  had already undertaken commitments for the execuilon  of the aforementioned contracts. He urged that, in  the future, an effort should be made ta notify those  concerned, in good time, of any. modification that might  be made to contracts, so that they did not run into  - difficulties, .. - …  Referring to the granting : of Vñesco fellowships,  Mr. Hacquaert sine that, in most cases, Belgium  hed had every. reason /pe satisfaction with the choice  of fellowship hol cr. jent to tha} country. AS |.  however; some holders had not conie up to expecta-  tiens the Belgian delegation wished to draw the atten-  tion of governments to the need for applying suitable  and clearly defined criteria in Selecting those who  were to receive Unesco fellowships. .  rar  contained à .  be fixed Aer a)  ‘He had already pointed out ‘hat the muétèss ‘of the  exchange of persons depended mainly « on thé quality of  individualg exchariged. The. matter | wes à challenge  to te Member States and to ail concertied with th  activity. Selection was the key to the operation and it  was surprising that failures in such « large Held had  bes relatively few. His Department was always  striving to. avoid them. and te improve the service.  tn whose exact sise outa  {te Mr. SHEARMAN (United Kingdoin) welcomed the  statement that collaboration ‘with the travel organisa-  tions had been useful. He thought help should not ba  cut off and that the allocation should remain at least  for one more year,
513  COMMISSION     IV134 :  {17). Mr, LUND (Sweden) referring to paragraph a“,  said that "Study Abroad” was most useful to the . . |  National Commissions which provided material for it.  Hc hoped however, that it would be possible to publish  it, in future, every two years only. ;:
(18) Mr, ‘CARTER (Chief; Exchange of Persons), ;  Service) thought the Swedish delegate was not quite  correct in saying that "Siudy Abroad information was  duplicated from year té year, He poled out that  Volume 8 contained 75 per cent of information which  had not appeared in Volume 7; furthermore Volume 7  listed 58,000 fellowships whereas Volume 8 showed
78,000 awards. With the world in a constant state of  cultural expansion and diversification it would be pre-  mature to issue an expanding publication every | two  years only. "Study Abroad" was sold out every year -  Volume 8 had gone six months. previously - and it was  certain that 10,000 copies of the current volume would  be sold to an enormously interested public. In fact  "Study Abroad" was à best seller among the  Organisation's publications.
(19) Mr, SHEARMAN (United Kingdom) agreed that  “Study Abroad” was a most valuable publication. He  suggested that it should contain information on all the  opportunities which readers would like to know about,  excluding closed feliowships in which the general  public was not interested. ;
(20) Me, BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia) expressed .  his satisfaction with the report submitted by the Chief  of the Exchange of Persons Service and, referring to  the remarks made by the Swedish representative,  said that "Study Abroad" was a most useful publication.  He stressed the importance attributed to fellowships  and study in other countries in Colombia, and pointed  out that Member States without large econoinie |  resources could not train their specislists themselves  and needed fellowships to send them to in the  rich countries which were able to devote substantial ’  sums to equipping institutions. He thought that all  countries should allocate larger amounts to the  training of specialists abroad. ; ,
(21) The CHAIRMAN put resolution 6.11 to the vote.  It was unanimously adopted.
6.2 Fellowship Administration (paragraphs 52 to 89  and document 2C/DR/37)
(33) The ‘CHAIRMAN opened’ discussion on section
6.3 ‘and indicated that document 9C/DR/37;  by Austria, referred to that part of the programme.
(23) Mr. ZESSU, (Aligtcta)’ said that the: rédchition  spoke for itself, Institutes for training iA the peaceful  uses of ato: ‘snargy ‘Were pare; the prospective  trainees g LE ot attend the od pond and the smaller  States¢ not afferd the expenditure involved, k  was ‘very desirable that Unesco ‘should sve Hs 7  attention {p ihe riâtler snd graat cial fellowahips  or mich training. Austria w as’ tok ten awards  pf $6,000 each, ‘atut consultation betyess he  of Education énd . 24  realised thé proposal exce  $2,900 for each ferai but the need for      IV-34 PROGRAMME  specialists in atomic energy was so great that perhaps  the end justified the means. °
(24) Mr, NIELSEN (Denmark) fully agreed with the  spirit of the Austrian proposal, but pointed out that  in resolution 2,31 - relating to natural sciences -  atomic energy had been included among the fields  eligible for Participation in Member States’ activities,  although the sum provided wis fairly small, The ”  shortage of atomic energy specialists was evident,  but perhaps thé natural sciences programme could be  slightly amended to help prospective trainees.
(25) Mr. ZEISSL (Austria) admitted that he had  expected his draft resolution to be dealt with in  connexion with natural sciences, but the sums  provided by that programme were insufficient and he  asked for a separate provision.
(26) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium), in supporting the  Austrian proposal, said that he did not agree with the  Danish delegate. He considered, however, that the  amount of a single fellowship should not exceed  $3,000,
(27) Mr, CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) pointed out that some fellowships cost more  than $2,900 but on the other hand some cost a little  less. It was perfectly correct that assistance to  trainees in atomic science had been restored to the  natural sciences programme and some fellowships  provided (document 9C/5, Corrigendum 4, Exchange  of Persons, paragraph 64); they were at the Member  States' disposal.
(28) Mr. ZEISSL (Austria) accepted the reduction of  the provision to ten times $2,800 for each of the  coming years.
(29) Mr. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) pointed out that it had not been the practice  of the Organization to grant more than ten fellowships  in any one field, so as not to upset the balance of its  programme,
(30) Mr. ZEISSL (Austria) emphasized that the great  importance of atomic energy justified a greater  number of fellowships in that particular field.
(31) Mr. ZIMIN (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  feli that any draft resolution involving an increase in  the budget give rise to à difficult situation, He pro-  posed that, 8s à compromise solution, the Commission  might decide that priority should be given to fellowship  holders wishing to specialize in the peaceful uses of  atomic energy, which would give the Secretariat a  degree of latitude in the allocation of fellowships.
(32) Mr. von TRUTZSCHLER (Federal Republic of  Germany) supported the Austrian propossl because  the training of atomic specialists was a very urgent  matter. ‘ He thought Unesco should make an exception  and exceed the usual limit of ten fellowships. He was  not in favour of the rather complicated proposal put  forward hy the delegate of tie Soviet Union.
(33) Mr. ZIMIN (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)    COMMISSION  explained that his proposal was to replace that part of  the Austrian resolution referring to the creation of  new fellowships, by a provision for priority to be  given to fellowship holders wishing to specialize in  the peaceful uses of atomic energy, CL .  At the Chairman's request, Mr, Zimin formulated  his proposal on the following terms: "The General -  Conference recommends that the Director-General  establish a system of priority in the distribution of  fellowships, in favour of persons wishing to add to  their knowledge in fields related to the peaceful uses  nf atomic energy".
(34) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) proposed that the  Austrian and Soviet resolutions be combined and that  the establishment of a priority system be accepted;  at the same time, the number of fellowships that  could be allocat:À under the heading in question should  be limited, and the total number of fellowships  increased by ten.
(35) Mr. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) stresséd that, in connexion with that part of  the programme, Member States presented their  applications and it was presumed that they would also  indicate priorities. The Director-General always  tried to apportion aid according to the priorities  suggested by the Member States.
(36) Mr. REININK (Netherlands) seconded the  Austrian proposal and suggested that the logical order  was to vote first on it, and then on the amendment  proposed by the delegate of the Soviet Union.
(37) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Directcr-General) urged  the Commission not to forget that the budgetary situ-  ation created by the large number of increases it had  already approved was extremely difficult. The budget  ceiling had already been exceeded by a large amount  and the General Conference had had to establish a  procedure for budgetary adjustments. In spite of the  excellence of the Austrian proposal, the Commission  should not lose sight of the fact that its budgetary  implications would still further increase the deficit.
(38) Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) said that,  while the Femarks that the Assistant Diréctor-General  had just made were most pertinent, it would be unjust  to penalize the Depariments whose budgéts were  examined at the concluding meetings of the Commis-  sion. It Would be preferable for the Commission to  continue making is decisions freely, on the under-  standing that, by means of the revision procedure  introduced by the Conference, a balance would be re-  established in the course of a general study of all  proposed budgetary increases. He would therefore  vote in favour of the proposal under discussion, in  order that the result of the vote might be recorded in  the minutes and that the Director-General might take  into account the opinions expressed by the Commis-  sion when the next proposed programme and budget  was being drawn up.
(39) Mr. BURNS (New Zealand) did not think there  was any need for special priorities, because the whole  resolution was directed to the field of atomic energy.  He was not quite clear what the budgetary
514   PROGRAMME  implication of document 9C/DR/37 was at that stage  of the debate.
(40) Mr, ZEISSL (Austria) reaffirmed that his pro-  posal was for ten fellowships of $2,000 for each of  the following years.
(41) Mr, CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) explained that, in the Participation programme |  the $14,500 referred to other fellowships; the Austrian  proposal was not included in that sum.
(42) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  agfeed with the Brazilian delegate that it would be  unjust to penalize those Departments whose proposals  were examined late in thé session, Nevertheless, it  should not be forgotten that in document 9C/5,  Corrigendum 4, the Director-General himself had  proposed a substantial increase in the Service's  budget. In proposing that increase, the Director -  General had taken into consideration the balance to be  maintained between the budgets of the various  Departments and that balance was at the moment in  danger.
(43) Mr. ZEISSL (Austria) urged that the proposal be  sdopted on its merits - the balance of the budget  would be found later by the body entrusted with that  task, He emphasized that latecomers with draft  résolutions should not be penalized solely because  other allucations had been approved first.
(44) The CHAIRMAN put the Austrian draft resolution,  document 9C/DR/37, to the vote, including its budget-  ary implication of $58,000, It was adopted by 11 votes  to 1, with 28 abstentions.
(45) Resolution 6.21, as amended by the Austrian  proposal, was unanimously adopted.
6.3 Promotion of the Exchange of Persons for  International Underatanding (paragraphs 20 to 102)  {46) Mr. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Pérsons  Service), replying to the delegate of Japan, explained  that item (C) of resolution 6, 32 had been deleted  because of a recommendation of the Execuiive Board,
(47) Mr. ZIMIN (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics),  while approving the wording of resolution 6.31,  proposed that the words "Member States are invited  to" be replaced by "The General Conference  recommends Member States to", as the latter wording  was more in keeping with the spirit of co-operation  that ought to reign between the Member States and  Unesco.
(48) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that the wording used in draft resolution
6.31 was customary for thé type of resolution  concerned, while the ‘recommendation’ formula  related to the special procedure of recommendations  to Member States which involved preparatdry studies.
(48) The CHAIRMAN put resolution 6.31 to the vote;  COMMISSION    it was adopted unanimously.
(50) Resolution 6.32 - as amended by the deletion of  sub-paragraph (C) - was also unanimously adopted.
6.4 Exchange of workers (paragraphe 103 to 123)
(51) Mr, CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons.  Service) explained that, in document 9C/6 Corrigendum
4, the Director-General proposed an increase of  $22,500 for the exchange of workers in non-European  areas, to bring the provision up to the 1955-1056 level.
(52) Mr, MORITO (Japan) attached great importance  to that major Unesco activity. The Japanese National  Commission had held many meetings - the last in  Tokyo, in September 1956 - on the matter, which it  considered essential, Mr, Mdrito was glad of the  budget increase referred to by Mr. Carter and indi-  cated that his country and India would exchange 15  workers in the course of the following yesr. Negoti-  ations for similar exchanges with Thailand were  being carried on, He stressed the full justification  for the proposed increase - the balance of the budget  could be saved in some other way than by rejecting it.
(53) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark) said the section on the  exchange of workers had always been considered very  favourably by the Danish National Commission. He  was pleased that the original figure had been restored,
(54) Mr. PANIKKAR (World Federation of Trade  Unions) said it was very gratifying that the cut in the  exchange of workers had been restored. His Federa-  tion had operated a large acheme of such exchanges,  which had been found extremely effective for promo-  ting mutual understanding through direct contacts  between the working people of the world.
(55) Mr. von TRUTZSCHLER (Federal Republic of  Germany) agsociated himself with the remarks of the  delegate of Denmark. He presumed that all the sub-  items would be restored to their previous level.
(56) The CHAIRMAN replied in the affirmative,
(57) Mr. LUND (Sweden) stressed that the task en-  visaged in section 6.4 was enormous - and the funds  small, He hoped it would be possible to raise them  considerably.
(58) Resolution 6.41 was unanimously adopted,
6.5 Exchange of young people (paragraphs 124 to 133)
(59) Resolution 6.51 was unanimously adopted,
6.6 Exchange of teachers (paragraphe 134 to 150 and  document 9C/DR/35)
(60) Mr. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) explained that the activities envisaged in  paragraphe 142 and 143 had been transferred to the  Orient-Occident project. In reply to the delegate of  Japan, he agreed that the work plan was a tentative  one and would be finalized later.
(61) Mr. ZEISSL (Austria) reminded the Commission   v-34  that his previous remarks concerning document
(62) Mr, VITO (Italy) praised section 6,6 - Exchange  of teachers - particularly with regard to university  professors. He supported the general idea of the  Austrian resolution and said that the International  Association of University Professors and Lecturers  had made a careful study of the question and had  concluded unanimously that Unesco should help them.  He had one reservation, however, to the proposal  tabled by Austria; the establishment of an inter-  national convention would require much time - some  universities were State ones while others were  private - and he suggested amending paragraph 4 to  read: "The Director-General is instructed to take  into consideration ways and means of facilitating the  establishment of an appropriate convention which  would achieve the desired results."
(63) Mr. ZEISSL (Austria) agreed with Mr. Vito and  accepted his amendment with minor verbal  alterations.
(64) The CHAIRMAN assures the Commission that  the wording of the Italie"; amendment would be taken  care of by the Secretai lat,
(65) Mr. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) stated that the Austrian resolution had no  budgetary implications; it was well within the work  plan and he was glad of the valuable advice he had  received.
(66) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) proposed that the  draft resolution be amended so as to enable the  Director-General to carry out the proposed work in  co-operation with the International Association of  Universities, which would give the project a greater  chance of success than the mere presentation of a  governmental convention.
(67) Neither the Italian nor the Austrian delegate had  any objections to formulate.
(62) Resolution 6.61 was unanimously adopted.  (Mrs. Myrdal (Sweden) took the Chair.)  DOCUMENTS AND FUBLICATIONS SERVICE (documents 9C/5, Part ll  Chapter 8, and Adderda and Corrigenda and document 9C/22)
(69) Mr. DELAVENAY (Chief, ‘Documents and Publi-  cations Service) listed the basic documents outlining  the structure and functions of the Décuments and  Publications Service; documents 9C/5, Part II,  Chapter 8; 9C/5 Corrigendum |, Part It, Chapter 8;  and 9C/5 Corrigendum 2 (Distribution of Documents  and Publications Service among other Appropriation  Lines"). He pointed out that no resolution was being  submitted to the Commission, which would merely  have to decide on the appropriations.  He pointed out that the Documents and Publications  Service performed functions affecting all the activi-  ties of the Secretariat. The Service was organized on  the basis of grouping various categories of staff, when  necessary according to language, but always according
516     PROGRAMME COMMISSION  to function, When the Service moyed | into the | new.  building, it would consist of only three instead’ o fut  divisions; , 1, The Languages Division, which would ‘  be responsible for all literary work; 2, À Division  to deal with technical and art problems. arising in the  production of all Unesco documents and publications  and with the execution of all printing work; those  tasks were st the moment distributed among the  Workshops and the Publications Production’ Divisions,  and, if they were all in the hands of one Division, it  would be easier to choose the most rational form of  presentation for each publication; 3. The Distribution  Division, which would ço-ordinate distribution plans  in order to ensure the widest possible circulation of  Unesco publications throughout the world through the  sales agents and contracts with commercial  aublishers,  The Publications Fund, established by t the General’  Conference in 1949, had since received sums arhount-  ing to roughly $175,000 for the current ; year and toa  total of $620,000 for the period 1849-1956, It was  being used increasingly for the purpose for which it  had originally been set up, as à revolving fund té  finance reprints and increased editions of Usiesco  publications, Its method of functioning had been’  defined by the Publications Board in 1955 and it now  shouldered more than 20 per cent of the annual  contractual printing costs, a fact which had meant the  reduction of that category of expenditure in the  budgets of the programme Departments over the past  few years, Moreover, the Fund was paying the freight  costs on publications dispatched for sale, contributing  to the cost of advertising and contributing about  $20,000 to the Organization's miscellaneous incouse,  Mr. Delavenay then drew the Cominission's  attention to the proposals contained in document 6C/5  Corrigendum 2, and in the report of the Joint Working  Party of the Programme and Administrative Com-  missions (document 9C/22) dealing with the distribu-  tion among other appropriation lines of the services  supplied by the Documents and Publications Se ice,  The proposals concerned were designed to refôr dr the  budgetary structure of the Service, the aim be  induce all programme Departments to exercise  moderation in their requests for the translation and  reproduction of documents. .  Mr, Delavenay then made a number of comments on  questions which had been raised by the Executive  Board,
1. Sofar as the selling price of publications was  concerned, the current policy wag governed by recom-  mendations adopted by thé Executive Board in April’
1951 and approved by the General Conférence at its  sixth session (document 6C/PRG/16 Addendum 1).  In conformity with the instructions céntained therein,  the Secretariat had tried to fix a selling price as low  as possible, However, that policy had nit always  resulted in increased sales and, moreover, the,  decision to meet an increasing proportion of the ©  printing and distribution costs of publications, as well  as the freight costs on publications placed on sale and  certain staff costs, out of the Publications Fund made  the policy difficult. It would therefore be desirable  that the General Conférence stiould authorize the  Director-General to fix the selling price of  publications substantially above the minimum  laid down in document 6C/PRG/16   PROGRAMME OOMMISBION  Addendum : 1,in the Tight of général mark conditions,
2, The rite of commission granted to Uriéaco's  agents had been specially studied by the Executive  Boerd's Committee of Nine, as it appeared to that  Committee that since most of the publications had a  relatively’ }mited sale, the task of such agents was  not very ‘remimeratiye, He observed that Unesco  needed the assistance of national distributing bodies  in order to distribute its ‘publications in the Member  States and that the rate ôf commiasion paid to the  agents should enable them to take as active a part as  possible in a dynamic distribution policy. That rate  should, moreover, be in proper relation to the normal  rate paid in the area concerned for similar services  to comuriercial publishers, In consideration of the  fact that the reduction af the rates of commission  might cause agehts to losé interest in Unesco publi-  catigns, and that any increase ‘would result in an  increase of the retail price, the Secretariat could  only recommend that the existing scale - under which  tho rates varied from 40 per cent to 60 per cent - be  mainteined, with some simplification, so as to encour-  age agents to play an active part in the distribution of  Unesco publications.
3. The Exécutive Board's recommendation with  regard to the’ commercial advertising that could be  accepted by Unesco publications had beén discussed  with regard to the "Courier" by the Joint Working  Party of the Programme and Administrative Commis-  sions (Section B, document 9C/22) which had recom-  mended that the question be examined during the  forthcoming period and that à report be submitted to  the General Conference at ita tenth session.  Mr. Delavenay hoped nevertheless that a decision on  the principle would be taken before the Secretariat  undertook the additional work involved in such an  investigation, and pointed out that the postponement of  a decision on the principle until the tenth session  would compromise the advertising campaign for 1959,  which called for at least six months of preparation.
4. The Executive Board had also raised thé problem  of the means of increasing thé sale of publications and  subscriptions to periodicals. At the moment those  means were (a) the distribution of general and  specialized catalogues of Unesco publications, a  method that could be made more effective if more  funds were available; (b) advertising in booksellers’  and publishers’ journais, insérted either directly or  through agents, which gave good results; . (¢) publicity  and distribution campaigns organized by National’  Commissions. Mr. Delayenay pointed out that  National Commissions’ would find in document ODG/4,  detailed suggestions to guide them in the organization  of such campaigns, and that they might also gain ideas  from the recommendations made at the Conference cf  National Commissions held at Aix-en-Provence in 1955.  In addition, at the request of several of the new  Member States, instructions had been given that those  States were to be sent without delay basic texts  ‘relating to the distribution of Unesco documents and  publications, and as complete a set as possible of the  publications that had been brought out over the past  ten years.
(70) Thé CHAIRMAN stréssed that the programme of  the Documents and Publications Servicé was a  function of the other parts of the programme. She
617     IV-34  suggested that the Commission vote only on ite budget.
(71) Mf; THOMAS (Assistant Director -Genéral) dbew  the Commisaion's attention to paragraph 9 of décu-  ment 9C/22, in which the Joint Working Party of the  Programme and Administrative Ci ssions pointed  out that if there were 2,000 new subscriptions to the  "Courier" a month, a deficit of $36,000 was to be Eg  expected for the 1957-1958 period. He stressed that  the Director-General was not asking for such à sum,  and suggested that the Commission restrict itself to  questioning the Chief of the Documenta and Publica-  tions Service on matters relating to the Service's staff  and budget.
(72) Mrs. PARONETTO VALIER' “{téaly) telt that  Mr. Delavenay, in his general statément, had touched  cn several most fénportant points that had beén  considered by: “he Joint Workirig Partyand had already  been discussed at previois séssions of the General  Confererice (in particular in 1052 in connexion with a  draft resolution submitted by France) and at the  Conference of National Commissions at Aix-en-  Provence in 1956, on which occasion Mr, Bourgeois,  the delegaté of Switzerland, had submitted an-  excellent report, The Italian delegation wished to  submit to the Programme Commission a draft reso-  lution taking into account the various views that had  . been expressed in the above-mentioned bodies with  regard to the distribution of Unesco publications. She  then read out the draft resolution:  "The General Conference,
(1) Considering the vital rôle played by Unesco  publications in the implementation of the Organization's  programme;
(2) Expresses its conviction that the increasing of  the distribution of publications is a major general  activity of Unesco;
(3) Invites the Director-General to take account of  this fact in the establishment of his future programme  and budgets;
(4) Reaffirms the need for ensuring the distribution  of Unesco's publications through commercial channals  wherever possible;
(5) Recognizes nevertheless that some publications  cannot yet be sufficiently widely distributed through  these channels alone;
(6) Notes the division into three categories of all  Unesco publications according to the method of distri-  bution employed (commercial channels only, free |  distribution and commercial channels, free distribution  only);
(7) Invites Member States to co-operate effectively  in the distribution of Unesco publications, within the  framework and through the medium of National Com-  missions, by using, with the assistance of the official  bodies ond trade groups concerned, all appropriate  means of promoting these publications, especially  exhibitions, a reasonable distribution of press copies,  the publication of catalogues, and the use of radio and  television;
(8) Instructs the Director-General:
(9) To draw up, with the aid of information received  relating to publications of the three categories, distri-  bution plans calculated to ensure maximum efficiency;
(10) To keep a strict check on all free distribution;
(11) To take into account, when determining tho   IV-34 PROGRAMME  selling price of publications, of the higher commercial  possibilities of certain books or periodicals, the  minimum selling price being fixed according to the  criterin adopted by the General Conference at its  sixth sessign."*
(73) The CHAIRMAN ruled that the resolution should  have been presented to the Conference before the  time-limit had expired; it wa’; very difficult to vote  on it at that time,
(74) Mr, FOURGEOIS (Switzerland) said he would  like to hear the opinion of the Chief of the Documents  and Publications Service on the Italian proposal.
(75) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) said  that, as the resolution had only just been brought to  his notice, he could not, without further study, give  an opinion on its implications, He therefore proposed  that the Commission postpone its consideration,
(76) The Italian delegate accepted the above proposal.
(17) The CHARMAN put to the vote the budget  allocation of the Documents and Publications Service;  it was unanimously adopted.  ITEM 0.1 OF THE AGENDA : EDUCATION (continued)  (documents 9C/5 and Addenda and Corrigenda)
1.7 Emergency educational assistance (continued)  (paragraphs 213 to 234 and document 8C/DR/125 Rev.)
(78) Mrs. KAMINSKA (Poland) on behalf of her  delegation, supported the Belgian draft resolution,  stating that'Polish public opinion had been deeply  moved by the sufferings of the Egyptian people, and  hoped that Unesco would help in the restoration of  educational facilities in Egypt. The Polish Govern-  ment and people were already giving assistance to  Hungary and the Polish delegation warmly supported  any proposal to assist Hungary in rebuilding school  premises. She observed, however, that the revised  text of draft resolution 9C/DR/1 25 did not state how  the Director-General would obtain the necessary  information and act on. the Conference's recommend-  ations. The Polish delegation therefore proposed  that paragraph (2) be amended to resd as follows:  "Considering that, in order to accomplish this task,  Unesco may be called upon to co-operate with the  governments concerned and with the United Nations  and other appropriate Specialized Agencies;" the  same alteration should be made to paragraph (5) which  would then read: "Instructs the Director-General to  ensure, in close co-operation with the governments  concerned and with the United Nations and the  appropriate Specialized Agencies .
(78) Mr, "KOVAL (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic) said that he would like the Director-  General's representative to explain how the Director-  General intended using and distributing the funds that  he would be authorized, under the terms of the  Belgian draft resolution, to draw from the Working  Capital Fund,   (80) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said his
518  COMMISSION  delegation warmly supported the Belgian resolution; -  it was the practical and tangible kind of work that  Unesco was designed to accomplish and that the  Ouiganisation had already done on a large scale in  other areas.
(81) Mr, ZEISSL (Austria) was sincerely grateful fo  Belgium for its moving appeal in favour of children,  the innocent victims of à human tragedy which  Austria was doing its utmost to alioviste by placing  its modest resources at Unesco's disposal,
(82) Mr, ' BRUNSVICK (France) said that his delega-  tion warmly supported everything that previous ‘  speakers had said with regard to the Belgian  proposal, The French delegation also supported the  Polish draft amendment. With regard to the question  raised by the Ukrainian delegate, he felt that the  Conference could rely on the Director-General to  arrange for the best possible distribution of the funds  available in the light of the needs af the countries  concerned.
(83) Mr. von TRUTZSCHLER (Federal Republic of  Germany) welcomed the Belgian initiative and fully  supported document 9C/DR/135, including the  proposed changes, which improved it still further,  His Government was ready to co-operate in every  way with Unesco.
(84) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain) seid that his delegation  warmly approved the Belgian resolution, with which it  was in complete sympathy, and would support it fully.  He referred to the moving speech of the Austrian  delegate and added that his delegation considered that  the problem raised was one with a bearing on the most  essential function of Unesco end closely linked with  one of the objects for which the Organization was  established.
(85) Mr, BOGDANOVIC (Yugoslavia) said that his  delegation endorsed }oth the Belgian resolution and  the Polish draft amendment. He added that Yugoslavia  had already taken steps to aid the victims of the  tragic events that had occurred in Hungary, and  hoped that assistance would also be given to Egypt.
(86) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) supported  the Belgian proposal. He pointed out that, in similar  circumstances, Unesco had already assisted Greek  children on a more modest financial scale, and that  he personally had been delegated to undertake a  mission in Greece. He considered that, by adopting  the Belgian proposal, Unesco would show that it was  responsible for keeping watch over the human and  cultural values of the nations of the world.  * Document 6C/PRG/16 Addendum 1, paragraph 3, qu:  "Pricing of publications; The prices at which pub-  lications are placed on sale shall normally be such  as to reimburse the Organization for their printing  and binding costs. Exceptions to this rule may be  made in cases where wide diffusion of a publication  is of particular importance to the aims and purposes  of the Organization and it is reasonable to suppose  that a price below the normal would in fact achieve  wider sales."   PROGRAMME COMMISSION
(87) Mr. PARBEY (Switzerland) said that the country  of Pestalosxi and Henri Dunand warmly supported the  Belgian proposal, -
(86) Mr. FIKRY (Egypt) thanked the Belgian and other  "delegations for the sympathy they had shown for his  country.
(89) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) gave his whole-  hearted support to the Belgian proposal and offered ~  the money which had already been collected in Norway  for its implementation.
(00) Mr. CALO (Haly) also warmly supported the  Belgian proposal. .
(91) Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  expressed his satisfaction at the fact that the Belgian  proposal had been unanimously su | and stated  that the Director-General and the Secretariat would  do everything in their power to implement the  proposal #n assist Hungary and Egypt. 4  Referring to the mention made of the Working  Capital Fund in paragraph (6), he pointed out that the  General Conference would have to take a decision on  à recommendation of the Administrative Commission  évthorining the Director-General to advance sums not  exceeding a total of $900,000 from the Fund during
1957 and 1958.  The Secretariat could not indicate precisely what  action the Director-General would take to carry oùt  the project, as it had not yet sufficient information at  its disposal. He would, however, point out that Unesco  had already had occasion to provide assistence to the  Palestine Arab refugees and to Korea, On both  occasions the United Nations had taken thé initiative  and co-ordinated the work of the Specialized Agencies.  It therefore seemed that Unesco could co-operate as  before in concerted action with the other United  Nations bodies, since the general rule guiding Unesco's  activities was to work in co-operation with the United  Nations and the other Specialized Agencies.
(92) The CHAIRMAN asked if the delegate of Belgium  accepted the Polish amendment.
(93) Mr. KUYPERS (Belgium) said that the French  text of paragraph (5) of draft resolution 9C/DR/126  Rev. 2 would have to bé amended as follows: "Charge  le Dirécteur général ..... de l'enseiguement donné  i ces enfants ét jeunes gens”. It was purely a  question of wording and did not alter the sense of the  resolution in shy way. ;  With regard to the Polish proposal, the Belgian  delegation had né objection to mentioning the govern-  ments concerned, as that form of words would cover  not only Hungary and Egypt, but all countries  harbouring refugee children, as the discussion had  made clear.
(94) Mr. KEMENOV (Union. of Soviet Socialist  Republics) had gathéred that the Assistant Director-  General expected that aid to Hungary and Egypt would  be centralized through the United Nations, which  would therefore receive funds fram Unesco and re-  distribute thom to the countries concerned. He found  the Polish proposal perfectly clear and thought that
619  V-34  only adiate and direct contact with the Hungarian  and Egyptian Governiments would enable tbe Director-  General to obtain the information he required and *  ensure the necessary co-opératic:i to make the  ansistance requested efféctive, He ssked Mr, Thomas  to explain whether contact would be established with  those two Governments, or whether the Secretariat  was considering some other typs of assistance,
(95) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Diréctor-General) ’ :-  woniered whether Mr. Kenioiiov's question was not  the result of à misunderstanding, Hé had not said  that Unesco's contribution would go through United  Nations channels but had simply pointed aut that, on  similar occasions, Unesco had co-operated in joint  action by the United Nations and the other Specialized  Agencies, He did not think it either necessary or  likely that Unesco would pay over to the United  Nations the amount of its contribution to emergency  assistance for Huigary and Egypt; but it was normal  for the United Nations to co-ordinate any large-scale  action underteken by the United Nations family on the  understanding that every Specialized Agency would act  in its own proper field. He emphasized that his  remarks were based on hypothesis only, ss the  Secretariat had not sufficient information at its  disposal to draw up a plan of action.
(86) Mr, NAVRATIL (Crechoslovakia) said that his  delegation endorsed the statements made by the Polish  delegation and all those delegates who had emphasized  the need for emergency assistance to Egyptian and  Hungarian children. He thought the Palish amendment  was necessary, and proposed that, to make thé point  clearer, the paragraphs in question should read: "in  consultation with the Governments of Hurigiry and  Egypt and the other governments concerned".
(97) Mr. KUYPERS (Belgium) could see no need for  that additional amendment as the wording proposed by  the Polish delegation covered all the governments  concerned,
(98) In reply to a question from the CHAIRMAN,  Mr. NAVRATIL (Czechoslovakia) stated that he would  withdraw his amendment.
(99) Mr. KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republica) thought that the Polish proposal deserved  the'Comimission's attention, as the title of the  resolution clearly showed that its intention was to  give assistancé to Hungary snd Egypt. The discussion  had shown that all délégations wéré prepared to  approve the essential measures arising out of the  Belgian proposal, which the General Committee of the  Conterenté had included In the Progranime Commis-  sion's agéndé. "He thought it inconceiyable that  Unesco should riôt approach the two governments  concerned. ‘He referred to paragraph 2, sub-para-  graph (b), of Article I of the Unesco Constitution which  explicitly emphasized the need of "collaborating with  Members, ét their request, in the development of  educational activities”. ‘It was therefore essential to  have the agreement of the governments coticerned,  which was & prerequisite for any true collaboration,  without which there would be, not assistance, but  interference in the domestic affairs of those countries,   TV-34  Mr, Kemenov therefore supported the Polish amend-  ment proposing the insertion of tho words "in co-ope-  ration with the Governments of Hungary and Egypt and  with the United Nations etc," If that amendment were  not introduced, the Director-General would not have ac-  cess to the additional sources of information he nseded.
(100) Mr. TOTH (Hungary) stressed the urgency of the  crisis and suggested adding,at the end of paragraph (8),  "and immediate help be given for the construction of  schools and the rehabilitation of didactic material",
(101) Sir Richard BOYER (Australia) pointed out that  the Hungarian requirement was slresdy stated in  paragraph (1) of the resolution.
(102) Mr. LEE (United States of America) stressed  that "urgency was mentioned in paragraph (4).
(103) Mr, TOTH (Hungary) insisted that the urgency  should be reiterated at the end of paragraph (5).
(104) Mr, HADJIOLOV (Bulgaria) also referred io  the unanimity with which the draft resolution had been  greeted. He urged, however, that the proposed assint-  ance should not be restricted to matters of education  but should include relief in the form of medical aud  food supplies. He would also like to see the Czecho-  slovak amendment adopted, as the assistance referred  to in paragraph (1) and that relating to uninterrupted  education in paragraph (5), could be ensured only if  direct contact were established with the competent  Hungarian and Egyptian Ministries and with the  principals of the schools’ that had suffered. He  therefore proposed that paragraphs (1) and (5) be  reworded so as to mention "co-operation with the  Governments of Egypt and Hungary and with the  governments of the other States concerned",
(105) Mr. ‘KUYPERS (Belgium) observed that the  Belgian delegation had already accepted the Polish  amendment and that the Czechoslovak amendment had  been withdrawn. He thought it was perfectly clear  that, without information received direct from the  Hungarian’ and Egyptian Governments, and without  the co-operation those Governments in all matters  connected with their territory, Unesco's assistance  would remain a dead letter. He saw no need to amend  the title of the ‘resolution, 5 place of residence did not  alter nationality. _Maregyer, it was quite clear that aid  to Hungarian and ‘Egyptian « ‘children would generally be  given on Hungarian and Egyptisn territory,  With regard to the Hungarian delegate’ s suggestion,”  Mr. Kuypers tncught that ii could be worded as  follows: "in view oi ine urgency of granting  immediate aid for the restoration of school buildings  and educational ‘misterials”, Although that amendment  repeated what was said in paragraph (1), his delega-  tion had no objection to accepting it. - .  In reply to the Bulgarian delegate, he expressed  the opinior that it was for the competent Specialized  Agencies to concern themselves with assistance  related to food and health, In order to meet the -  Bulgarian delegite's wishes in connexion with his
1ast observation the Belgian delegation would propose  that paragraph (2) be amended to read: "... to  co-operate, more especially with the govern-
520  PROGRAMME COMMISSION  ments concerned and with the United Nations .,."
(106) The CHAIRMAN suggested insexting (after , .  "co-operaticn") the words "in agreement with the  Governments of Egypt and Hungary as well as those  of the countries concerned" or some such formula,
(107) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) feared  that the unanimity displayed with regard to the spirit’  of the Belgian proposal might be lont in discussion on  the details, He appealed to the delegations of Czecho-  slovakia, Poland, Hungary, Bulgaria and the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics to show a spirit of confi-  dence that would enable a solution to bé reached. He  felt that the Unesco Constitution should be sufficient  to guide the Director-General and the Secretariat in  their relations with Member States. He would  propose that a vote be taken on the Belgian  resolution, as amended by the Polish proposal which  had been accepted by the Belgian delegation.
(108) The CHAIRMAN advocated the use of the phrase  "with governments concerned" as being more general.
(108) Mr. HADJIOLOV (Bulgaria) regretted that the  Belgian delegation had not changed its attitude. While  he agreed with what Mr. Carneiro had said he thought  that worde were not enough; it was also necessary to  be rational and practical.
(110) Mr. KUYPERS (Belgium) wondered whether  the Bulgarian delegate had quite grasped the meaning  of his last speech, - He repeated that he was ready to  take into account all the suggestions made, He had  accepted the Polish amendment; he had proposed that  paragraph (2) be amended by the addition of the words  “more especially"; and he had emphasized that the  expression "the governments concerned" covered all  the governments involved,
(111) Mr, KISELEV (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist .  Republic) stated that his delegation fully supported the  idea of the Belgian resolution but felt that the Belgian  delegate could not but agree with the very rational -  contention that the Hungarian and Egyptian Governments  should be expressly named in paragraphs (2) and (5).
(112) Mr, KUYPERS (Belgium) ‘said that, ‘since the  sense of the amendment proposed so insistently by  several delegations to paragraphs (2) and (5) was  exactly the same as that of the original Belgian  proposal, his delegation would willingly agree to  insert the words "in co-operation with the Govern-  ments of Hungary and Egypt, with other governments  concerned and with the United Nations, etc." in order  to secure the unanimous assent of the Commission.
(113) Draft resolution 8C/DR/125 Rev. 2, proposed  by Belgium, was adopted by acclamation.
(114) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote resolution 1.71  (paragraph 221) which was adopted unanimously.
(115) The Commission also took note of the staffing  pattern of the education programme.  The meeting rose at 7.10 p.m.