ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  groatly expedited by the clear explanations given by  the Compiroller, On behalf of his delegation,  he thanked Mr. Harper-Smith for his valuable  assistance.  v-4
(49) The € JIAIRMAN fully associated himself with  the foregoing remarks.  The meeting rose at 5.30 p.m,  FOURTH MEETING
8 November 1956, at 10,30 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 11.2 OF TUE AGENDA, CONSIDERATION, ON THE REPORT  OF THE E.(ECUTIVE BOARD, OF PARTS | (GENERAL POLICY),  M (GENERAL ADMINISTRATION) AND IV (COMMON SERVICEN)  OF THE BUDGET ESTIMATES FOR 1957-1938 (documents 9C/8 and  Comigendum 1, 9C/5 Addendum | and 9C/5 Addendum 3)
(1) Introilucing the documents, Mr. ADISESHIAH  {Assistant Director-General) asked the Commission  to considér Part I - General Policy - in documents
9C/5, 9C/5 Corrigendum 1 and 9C/6 Addendum 1.  Under Chapter 1 - General Conference - the Board's  commenta were to be found in paragraph 61 of docu-  ment 9C/6 Addendum 1, In accordance with paragraph’
62 of the same document, the Board had studied the  date for the calling of the tenth session of the General  Conference and had decided to recommend to the Con-  ference that its tenth session be held at Unesco Head-  quarters in Paris at the beginning of November 1958.  As stated in paragraph 61, the cost of publishing the  proceedings of that session would be carried over  into 1958.  With regard to Chapter 2, the estimates for the  Executive Board were based on the assumption that  the Board would hold two meetings in 1957 and four In
1958. Aa Mr. Adiseshiah had stated the previous day,  if the Franco-Japanese amendment to the Constitution  were adopted, the increase in the membership of the  Board from 22 to 24 would involve an additional cost  of $12,800 for the two-year period.
(2) Part I, Chapter 1 - General Conference - was  approved, .
(3) Part I, Chapter 2 - Executive Board - was  approved, subject to the modification that would be  entailed by the adoption of the constitutional amend-  ment proposed by France and Spain.
(4) Passing on to Part II! - General Administration -  Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General) re-  quested that Chapter 1 - Office of the Director-  General - be held over until the Director-General  could be present. :  Agreed.
(5) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  »
647  pointed out that in Chapter 2 - Bureau of the Comp-  troller - there was no change of any significance, save  for tha reduction mentioned in paragraph 39 of docu-  ment 9C/5. .  {6) Chapter 2 was approved.
(1) Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  explained that the Director -General's final proposals  with regard to Chapter 3 - Bureau of Personnel and  Management - were to be found in document 9C/6  Corrigendum 1 (pages 86-89), which completely re-  placed the corresponding chapter in document 9C/6.  The Assistant Director-General drew the Commis-  sion's attention to paragraph 36 of thé Introduction to  document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1 (page XIV) and to the  two tables given in paragraphs 46 and 48a, The rele-  vant comments of thé Board were given in paragraphs
23-32 of document 9C/5 Addendum 1. The staff pro-  posed for 1957-1958 was the sume as that provided  for in the 1955-1956 budget. As explained in para-  graph 54 of the Corrigendum, a new division had been  creatéd, .the Administralive Management Division, to  advise on personnel practices, procedures and manage-  ment, to perform classification functions and to con-  tinue the very heavy work entailed by the recommenda-  tions of the Salary Review Committee, |  With regard to paragraph 46 of the Introduction, Mr.  Adiseshiah pointed out that the trend towarda an up-  grading pattern in the Organization, which had caused  the General Conference concern at its eighth session,  had been checked; there was an overall reduction in  the budget estimatea for ataff in 1957-1958, and every-  where the trend was downward, :  In response to the Board's comment in paragraph 23  of document 9C/5 Addendum 1, the Director-General  had made a detailed ataternent which was to be seen in  paragraphs 24-27 of the same document. The Board  had observed that the administrative costs of the  Organization were far higher than its programme costs;  in reply to that general criticism, the Assistant  Director-General explained that (t was very difficult to  define the administrative expenses of the Organization  (and similar attempts in other organizations had proved  unsuccessful), ‘  It could never be repeated tco often that the whole  staff of Unesco existed only for the execution of the   V-4  programme; those who were called admiaistrative  staff did not serve s meaningless bureaucracy but  existed only to administer the programme, which was  itself almost entirely a programme of administration  of international projects (stimulation, facilitation,  co-ordination, exchange of information) not of original  intellectual, scientific or creative activity,  The operation of an international organization was  not comparable with that of à natjonal civil service,  which did not have to contend with such complications  as multiple working languages, differing wérking  habits among its staff members, use of several cur-  rencies, and travel and communications difficulties  involved in operation at great distances from Head-  quartera,  Unesco's situation was more complicated than that  of most other international organizations, because of  the location of its Headquarters in a soft currency  country and because it accepted Member States‘ con-  tributions partly in soft currencies. That involved  many additional services such as allocation of foreign  currency for travel, making of salary allotments and  keeping of savings for French staff members, and the  operating of many different bank accounts, which  caused extra administrative work not required in any  other United Nations agency except the Food and Agri-  culture Organization.  The proportion of administrative overheads should  not be calculated in relation to the regular budget  only, or to the 1,044 staff provided for in the’ proposed  programme and budget. As regarded financial opera-  tions, the amount handled in the two-year period was  almost double the amount of the regular budget (i.e.  for 1955-1956: regular budget about $20,000,000,  plus: Technical Assistance $8,900,000, Unesco,  Coupon Schemes $5,500,000, Headquarters Construc-  tion funds $5,000,000, revenue from sale of publicé-  tions $300, 000, Medical Benefits Scheme $250, 000,  Statt Compensation Fund $50,000: total $20,000, 000),  With regard to staff, the Secretariat was recruiting  and administering not only its own 1, 044 staff mem-  ters but also, in the course of a year, some 200 ex-  perts under the Expanded Programme of Technical  Assistance and 50 under the Programme of Aid to  Member States.  With regard to the number of staff members pro-  vided for in the programme and budget, it ‘was often  suggested that all those not appearing under thé pro-  gramme Depaitménts in Part II of the budget were  "administrators", not contributing to thé execution of  the programme. The following facts should be °  mentioned:
(1) Paragraph 12 of the Report ‘of the Committéé of  Nine (reproduced as the Appendix to'décument 90/6  Addendum 1) gave figures based on estimatés for
1957," indicating distribution of taft bétween (a) Pro-  gramme Departments and Exchange of Persons; (b)  the Office of the Director-General; (¢) Bureau of  Conference Planning -and General Services, Bureau  of Personnel and Management, - *Biréau of the  Comptroller; and (d) Documents and Publications.  Those figures were not accurate and'the division  into categories did not correspond with the  categories shown in a table headed "Post Diatri-  bution by Departments, etc! which had béen intro-  duced {nto document ac/s Corrigendum 1 (pera-  graph 48e).
548  ADMINIBTRATIVE COMMISSION
(11) The table in document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1  gave the following breakdown:  Total
4 Par) 1 General Policy  General Conference and Executive Board  Part It Programme Operations and Services 706  (a) Five Departments and Exchange  of Persons Service  (b) Documents and Publications  Service
205  Part III  (leneral Administration 250  Office of the Director-General; Bureau of  the Comptroller; Bureau of Personnel and  Management; Bureau of Conference Plan-  ning and General Services; Bureau of  Relations with Member States  Part IV Common Services  Total Regular Budget  Total Expanded Programme  of Technical Assistance  Budget
(111) The 501 posts in the five programme Depart-  ments and the Exchange of Persons Service comprised
250 posts in thé Director and Professional category and
251 General Service posts. They included six Admini-  strative Liaison Officers and three assistants,  (iv) With those 501 posts directly engaged in pro-  gramme éxecution were grouped 205 posts in the  Documents and Publications Service. Seventy-one of  those posts were in thé Professional category, and,  of those 71, 38 were revisers, translators and inter-  preters. ot the 134 Genéral Serviée posts, 62 were  in the workshop responsible for the reproductiqn of  documents (machine operators, assemblers, ele. ) and
50 in thé distribution division (clerks, stenogréphers,  * packers, etc.). An analyais of the work load of the  Docurients and Publications Service for 1957-1958 |  showed that af least 66; 6 per cent of its work was done  on behalf of the’ programme Departments and the Ex-  change of Persons Service and was therefore in direct  support of the execution of the programme (cf. docu-  ment 9C/6 Corrigendum 2).  (v) Two hundred and fifty posts were shown as corres:  ponding to Part III of the Budget, General Administra-  tion, but on breaking those posts down it could be seen  that almost half of them were not in fact administrative  posts, Thus, 49 posta in the Officé of the Director-  General (35 professional and 24 General Service)  corresponded to functions of policy making, legal  advice, budgeting and liaison with other international  organizations;  Twenty-three posts weré in the Bureau of Rela-  tions with Member States, combining liaison functions  with participation in programme execution (or, in the  case of Technical Assistance activities, primary  responsibility for programme execution);  Of 111 posts (17 Professional and 94 General  Service) in the Bureau of Conference Planning and   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  General Services, 42 were in the Building Manage-  ment and Transport Division and consisted of elec-  tricians, telephonints, cheuffeurs, plumbers,  carpenters and labourers, Another 42 were in the  Registry and Archives Division. Only 19 in the Pur-  chase and Stores Division and 8 in the Office of the  Head of the Bureau could properly be called admini-  strative posts as distinct from maintenance and  service staff; '  Finally, there rémained 38 posts in the Bureau  of the Comptroller (14 Professional and 24 General  Service) and 29 in the Burèau of Personnel and Manage-  ment (11 Professional and 18 General Service) with  purely administrative functions,  Similarly, it was sometimes suggested that all the  expenses provided for undér Part IV of the Budget,  Common Service Costs, were administrative ex-  penses. Analysis of those costs showed that in fact  over 75 per cent of them wère incurred directly for  the execution of the programme and less than 25 per  cent wero administrative expenses, Thus, under the  heading "Stationery and office supplies’, while expen-  dable office supplies might be considered as 100 per  cent administrative expenses, filing materials were  used 50 per cent by programme Departments, and  packing materials and dispatch materials 80 per cent  for dispatch of material directly related to the execu-  tion of the programme. Eighty per cent of the paper  used for internal reproduction of documents was  chargeable to the programme Departments, Of com-  munication expenses (postage, telephone, telegrams  and freight) 87 per cent was directly related to the  execution of the programme, and only 13 per cent to  administration.
(8) The CHAIRMAN welcomed the Director-General to  the Commission. He proposed that, after the  Assistant Director-General's detailed introduction,  the Commission hold a general discussion on Chapter
3 - Bureau of Personnel and Management,
(9) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  Mes) noted that in paragraph 23 of document 9C/5  Adderndum 1, the proportion of tlie appropriations for  staff costs was expressed by two very different  figures: 38,6 per cent in 1947 and 58.7 per cent in
1956. It would be interesting to know the proportional  figure for that item in the proposed budget for 1957-
958.  {10) Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  gave the following figures: 1957: 60.2 per cent;
(11) Mr. MUNRO (Australia) thanked the Assistant  Director-General for his very useful analysis, but.  considered that it was too detailed to discuss in the  Commission. . While welcoming the statement that the  tendency towards upgrading in the Secretariat had been  checked, he expréssed concern at the fact, noted by  the Executive Board, that the staff, on 30 ‘Tune 1956,  had comprised some 60 posts additional to those pro-  vided for in the budget. In the opinion of the  Australian delegation, the figure in the budget should  be strictly adhered to, as it was the one real check  on expenditure and the work to be undertaken.  Mr. Munro wished to draw attention to one difficulty:
549     V-4  the Commission had too many documents before it.  He hoped that it would bé possible at the next session  of the Conference to have the budget presented in a  single document, complete in itself, The Executive  Board had done excellent work, but that should be  taken for granted; such amendments as it had intro-  duced could be incorporated in the budget, without  issuing a separate docutnent:
(12) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed that it would  be preferable to have a single document, but pointed  out that it would cyst a great deal of money, unless  the calendar for the prepiration of the draft programme  and budget and meetings of the Executive Board were  advanced, It would be physicaily impossible, without  great cost, to prepäñe a consolidated document and  have it printed in four languages, if the Board met as  late as it had done in 1956, i,e, on 11 July,  On the question of personnel, the Director-General  pointed out that the tablea in parjgraphe 46 and 48a  of the Introduction to the Corrigendum gave an up-to-  date picture of the staffing situation. That there had  been an effort to limit the number of posts was to be  seen in paragraphe 80b and 98b on pages XX and  XXIII of the same Introduction, He thought that the  Commission might like to hear from Mr, Farr some  details regarding new posts, and what had been done  about them in the new budget proposals.
(13). Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau ¢f Personnel and  Management) explained that details concerning the 64  additional posts created in 1955-1956 were to be found  in paragraph 25 of document 9C/6 Addendum 1. A  large number of those posts were being abolished in
1957-1958, as they were no longer needed. The actual  staff of 1,010 in 1956 would thus drop back to 966 in
1957, as compared with the figure of 944 included in  the budget for 1956,
(14) At the CHAIRMAN's suggestion, it was agreed  to take up the question of fixing a ceiling for the staff  when the Commission discussed the Appropriation  Resolution,
(15) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) asked Mr, Farr  to explain why it had been considered neressary to  establish 12 posts instead of fee contracts.
(16) Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) replied that a medical service had existed  in the Organization since 1947, . It consisted of a staff  of four - nurses and a social assistant. Until the  beginning of 1956, Uneaco tad had a contract with the  "Cité Universitaire" for an amount of money and, as  part of the contract, the "Cité Universitaire" had  undertaken to provide the services of those four people.  Although the arrangement had worked well, it had  created certain ‘anomalfes; i meant that there were  four people working full-time in offices at headquarters,  who were in constant contact with the | staff but were not  under the direct control of the Director-General, The  “Cité Universitaire" had always acted with the greatest  propriety, but the Position had been difficult, as the  people concerned were working in a situation similar  to that of staft members, and, as they were working  in the building, the Director- General was ‘responsible  for them in certain respects. It had therefore seemed   V-4  desirable that any person employed full-time by the  Organisation for a cobtinuing period (i.g. inore than
10 months), and who ought to be under the direct  responsibility of the Director-General; should be.  bound by tie Staff Rules and Regulations, It had been  the Director-General's view that it was a question of  correcting an anomaly which should not have existed,  Similarly, for some reason which Mr. ‘Farr had  never understood, the people responsible for Unesco's  travelling science exhibitions, although employed  full-time by the Organization, had heen employed  under fee contracts, Thus, although holding respon-  sible positions and acting in Unesco's name, such  people had not been under the direct control of the  Director-General, It had therefore been considered  preferable to treat all those people as staff members,  bound by the Staff Rules and Regulations and entitled  to the corresponding advantages. Their new status  proved only slightly more costly to the Organization.
(17) While sympathizing with the views of the dele-  gate of Australia, Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom)  wondered whether, in referring to documentation, Mr,  Munro had not raised a wide issue which should per-  haps be discussed at some later stage.
(18) The CHAIRMAN understood that the whole ques-  tion of documents and publications would be discussed  in the Programme Commission, which would sub-  sequently refer certain aspects to the Administrative  Commission, The point raised by the delegate of  Australia might therefore be taken up at that time.  Agreed.
(19) Returning to the question of staff levels, Mr.  ARTHUR (United Kingdom) wondered whether it would  be desirable to await the discussion on the Appropria-  tion Regolution before considering the Executive  Board's! proposal regarding the fixing of a maximum  staff level, He proposed that the Commission take a  decision on the principle forthwith, without mentioning  any specific figures.
(20) The CHAIRMAN asked if thé delegates of  Australia and thé United Kingdom were supporting the  Executive Board's proposals in paragraphs 29-32 of  document 9C/5 Addendum 1.
(21) Mr, MUNRO (Australia) and Mr. ARTHUR  (United Kingdom) replied in the affirmative.
(22) The principle of fixing thé maximum overall  staff of the Secretariat was put to the vote and unani-  mously approved by the Commission.
(23) In reply to a question from the DIRECTOR-  GENERAL, Mr, ARTHUR (United Kingdom) said that  he was éntirely satisfied with Mr. Farr's explanations  concerning the conversion of fee contracts into estab-  lslied posts. .
(24) Thé DIRECTOR-GENERAL remarked that, at  the appropriate time, the Secretariat would ‘be  very glad to have a clear definition from the Con-  ference of ''established posts, ‘temporary posts",  etc.
550  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  : (25) Mr, NIELSEN (Denmark) hoped that the debate  would not be interpreted to mean that the Commission  had expressed any preference as between established  posts or fee contracts. The Director-General should  be left a large measure of latitude in that respect.
(26) Agreeing with the delegate of Denmark, the  CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Commission had only  taken a decision on the principle of fixing the maxi-  mum overall staff of the Secretariat, -  As the Director-General was present, the Chairman  requested the Commission to consider Chapters 1  (Office of the Director-General) and 5 (Bureau of Rela-  tions with Member States) of Part III of the budget.
(27) Referring to Chapter 1, Mr, ADISESHIAH  (Assistant Director-General) pointed out that the eati-  mates for the Office of the Director-General were the  same as for 1955-1956. Certain apparent reductions  were due to the transfer of the Division for Relations  with Member States and National Commissions to the  Bureau of Relations with Member States (Chapter 5).  Staff travel under Chapter 1 has been maintained at  the 1955-1956 level, -  Passing on to Chapter 5 (page 91 of document ac/5  Corrigendum 1), Mr. Adiseshiah drew the Commis-  sion's attention to the Executive Board's resolution on  page 25 of document oc/s Addendum 1 (paragraphs
119-1232),  The basic considerations underlying the Director-  General's proposal were the following, Over the past  three years he had travelled extensively in Member  States, particularly those receiving assistance from  Unesco under Technical Assistance or the Aid Pro-  gramme, As a result of those visits, he had come to  the conclusion that Urésco's relations with its Mem-  ber States were being moulded by the Unésco missions  stationed in some 45 States and Territories. The day-  to-day contacts of the experts with niinistries and  senior officials were determining Uneéco's relations  with the Member States concerned. It had also become  apparent to the Director-General that the activities |  being undertaken by Unesto uiider the Technical Assis-  tance, Aid, and regular programmes were really  indistinguishable and should be completely integrated,  as advocated by the Economic and Social Council in  its resolution 222 IX (A). The Director-General had  discussed the problems of Unesco's total administra-  tive structure with the United Nations Advisory Com-  mittee on Administrative and Budgeiary Questions,  and the latter's recommendation on the subject was  given in paragraph 60 of document A/3166. Mr.  Adiseshiah read out the recommendation,  As a result of the foregoing, the Director-General  had made the proposal contained in Part OI, Chapter
5 of the budget.  In conclusion, Mr. Adiseshiah gave à detailed’  account of the functions of thé new Bureau and ex-  plained how the reorganization would meet the points  listed by the Executive Board in sub-paragraphs (a) to  (g) of its resolution on page 25 of document
(28) Mr. CAMPBELL (New Zealand) requested clariti-  cation on one or two points. "Referring to the statement  in paragraph 123 of document 9C/5 Addendum 1 (page
25), he asked if the words "for the time being" meant   ADMINIBTRATIVE COMMISSION  that the Director-General did not intend to proceed  with the reorganisation until it had been approved by  the Géneral Conference, If so, he would like to hear  à statement from a representative of the Executive  Board on that point.  Secondly, he asked if members of the Commission  could be with copies of document A/3166, to  which Mr, Adiseshiah had referred.  In the absence of that document and an expression  of the views of the Executive Board, Mr. Campbell  would feel reluctant to take any final position.  {39) The CHAIRMAN replied in the affirmative to Mr.  Campbell's first question: "for the time boing'! meant  pending a decision of the General Conference.
(30) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  informed the delegate of New Zealand that a few  copies of document A/3166 were available and would  be circulated to delegates.
(31) Mr. McCLINTOCK (United States of America)  inquired whether the Director-General had prepared  a written report in response to the Executive Board's  resolution in document 9C/5 Addendum 1.  As the Commission was dealing with very detailed  subjects, the United States delegate suggested that it  might set up a working party or sub-committee to go  into the details and prepare recommendations for the  Commission.
(32) Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  said that the Director-General had not understood that  he was required to prepare a written report. The  various considerations listed by the Board, and the  advice of the Advisory Committee on Administrative  and Budgetary Questions, had been taken into account  in drawing up the Corrigendum to document 9C/8.  As for the auggestion of the United States delegate,  Mr, Adiseshiah thought that it was a matter that might  well be referred to the Advisory Committee on Pro- à  gramme and Budget, set up by the General Conference  at its eighth session and already equipped with a  Chairman.
(33) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) felt that the measure  contemplated was imperatively dictated by the fact  that the participation of Member States in the activities  of the Organization - and yice versa - was a very im-  portant part of the programme. Side by side with the  ordinary programme, moreoyer, there was an Expan-  ded Programme of Technical Assigtance" and there  was a great desire that the two programmes should be  run together. The Lebanese Government, for its part,  had often recommended that course to the Secretariat.  The Executive Board's comments on the point  viewed the matter from both sides, A reading of them  showed that, while the Board approved of the principle  of fusion, it had reservations as to its immediate  application a d had invited the Director-General to  make a thorough study of the question. It appeared  that the Secretariat had not been able to devote much  time to it, and the Commission was certainly not in a  position to study the question properly.  Mgr Maroun earnestly hoped thatthe Commission  would not refer the matter to the Programme Commis-  sion, which was possibly not competent to deal with it,
651  V-4  but to an ad hoc committee to which a member of the  Executive Board with a particular knowledge of the  question migh  give his help. A small committee of  that sort could prepare, not merely a statement of the  position, but à real working paper in which the diffi-  culties pointed out by the Board and the remarks of the  Secretariat could be tho oughly analysed,
(34) Miss LAISE (United States of America) said that  her delegation agreed with Mgr Maroun that it would  be better to refer the matter to an ad hoo committee,  rather than to the Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget.
(35) It was agreed to set up an ad hoc committee to  work with a representative of the Executive Board and  members of the Secretariat.
(36) The CHAIRMAN suggested the following member -  ship: Bulgaria, Federal Republic of Germany,  Indonesia, Lebanon, United States of America, He  added that it was for the General Committee to decide  when the group should meet,
(37) Mr. VILLALON (Chile) urged the inclusion of &  representative of the Spanish-speaking countries in the  proposed ad hoc committee.
(38) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) pointed out that certain  delegations had devoted a lot of attention to the prob-  lem and their participation in the work of the ad hoc  committee would be particularly useful. As he himself  feared that he would be unable to take part in it, he  would like to be replaced by the delegate of France or  of Italy. He was certainly very interested in the matter  but would very willingly give up his place to the French  or Italian delegate, or both,
(39) The CHAIRMAN proposed that Chile be added and  that France be substituted foi Lebanon.  Agreed.  {40) Mr. CAMPBELL (New Zealand) feared that the ad  hoc committee might be too small a body and proposed  the addition of one of the following: Australia, Canada  or the United Kingdom.
(41) At the CHAIRMAN's suggestion, it was agreed to  include Canada,
(42) The final membership of the Ad Hoc Committee  was therefore as follows: Bulgaria, Canada, Cuile,  France, Federal Republic of Germany, Indonesia and  United States of America.
(43) The CHAIRMAN called for comments on Part III,  Chapter 1, of the budget - Office of the Director-  General.
(44) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) asked why the  P.5 Executive Officer for Publications, provided for  in document 9C/5 (page 192), had been replaced in  document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1 (page 84) by an Execu-  tive Officer to the Director-General. ;
(45) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that there   v-8 ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  had already been two ve Officers and the  original plan had been to Jo abolish the one who sided the  Director-General and his two Assistan ant Directors:  General. After such a proposal had been included in  document 9C/5, however, certain facts had ex merged,  Firstly, it had been decided that the officer tempor -  ily tn charge of publications should heed the |  Languages Division of the Documents and Publications  Service when the serving Chief of that Division retired  in the near future on account of the age-limit, The |  official concerned had also been made Secretary of |  the Publications Board, where he had proved #0 useful  that it had been decided to suppress the post of Execu-  tive Officer for publications by combining some of his  functions with those of the Head of the Languages Divi-  sion, The official concerned had been Secretary of  the Executive Board for many years and was thoroughly  familier with the policies and problems of the Orga-  nisation, Secondly, it had been discovered that it had  been a mistake to abolish the post of "Chef de Cabinet"  in the Office of the Director-General; Mr, Thomas  particularly had missed the presence of such an  officer. The post had therefore been restored, The  only other person whom it had been thought possible  to transfer to the post of Executive Ofticer for publica-  tions was appointed to another post and would not be  available. The feeling was that, with a "Chef de  Cabinet", it should be possible to dispense with the    services of an Executive Officer for publications; ons  of the latter's functions would be taken over by the  "Chef de Cabinet", namely, the general editing of the  Director-General's reports.
(46) Miss LAISE (United States of America) took it  that it was the General Conference's first opportunity  to review the Executive Bourd's approval of the esteb-  lishment of three posts at the level of Assistant Director-  General, Her delegation had understood that the Con-  ference was to be provided with a clear definition of |  the respective ts and rosponsibilities of the  officials concerned, While she was not questioning the  action taken, she considered that the Conference was  entitled to have full information on which to base its de-  cisions, From the report of the Executive Board she  saw that the revision of the Organization's Administra-  tive Manual, in which that information might be expected  to appear, had not been completed. It would therefore  be necessary to have a special report on the matter,
(47) The CHAIRMAN observed that the delegate of the  United States of America had raised a very important  point, on which full information was required. He  would ask the Director-General to supply that informa-  tion at the beginning of the afternocn.  The meeting rose at 1,5 p.m  FIFTH MEETING
8 November 1956, at 3, 30 p, m.  Chairman: Mr, DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 11. 2 OF THE AGENDA ; CONSIDERATION, ON THE REPORT :  OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD, OF PARTS 1 (GENERAL POLICY),  NI (GENERAL ADMINISTRATION) AND IV (COMMON SERVICES)  OF THE BUDGET ESTIMATES FOR 1957. 1938 (continued)  (documents 9C/5 and Corrigendum 1, 9C/5 Addendum 1, 9C/5 Addendum 3) .  PART IH —- GENERAL ADMINISTRATION (continued)  CHAPTER 1 -OFFICE OF THE IMRECTOR-GENFRAL (continued)
(1) In response to the request for information about  the division of responsibilities between the two  Assistant Diréctors-Genersl made by the United: States  delegate at the previous meeting, the DIRECTOR-  GENERAL informed the Commission that, after dis-  cussing the matter fully with the Executive Board at  its 42nd session in November; he had put a new system  into effect ‘on: January 1956. The latest information  in documentary form about the exact division of res-  ponaibility was contained in a Staff Information Letter  {the purpose of which was to keep staff merabers in-  formed about all matters relating to personnel and also
552     other matters «fl interest to them in their work), which  had been circulated to members of the staff on 16  January 1956. A copy of that letter ‘could be made  available to any delegate on ‘request. Paragraphs 4, 5  and 6 of that fetter dealt with the respective respon-  sibilities of the two Assistant Directors-General and  read as follows:  "4. Dr, Adiseshiah will bè ‘reaporisible for aiding  me in the’ co-ordination of thé programmes of Technical  Assistance and Ald to Member Statés, the development  of the major projects’ for 1957-1958, the supérvision  of the Social Science Centre for South Asia on the  Social Implications of Industriaiizatién, thé Regional  Fundamental Education Centrés (at Sirs-el-Layyan  and Patzcuaro), and in the co-ordination of the admini-  strative services (Bureau of Personnel and Manage-  ment, Bureau of the Comptroller, Bureau of Conference  Planning and General Services, Documents and Publica-  tions Service).
5. “rofessor Thomas will be responsible for aiding  me in the co-ordination of general activities, special  activities, the programme of publications, and the  activities authorized by general resolutions, except for