18 November and four on 16 November), He added  that provision should be made for a plenary meeting  at the end of the week or the béginning of the following  one,
(99) Mr. KEMENOV proposed that the next plenary  meeting should be hold on the Wednesday morning,  because of the three days' break in the work.  Approved,  {100) The CHAIRMAN proposed that the General  Committee mest on the following Wednesday morn-  ing.
(101) Mrs, MYRDAL reported that the Programme  Commission had held three meetings, apart from -  that at which it had been constituted, The general  discussion had taken longer than had been expected  and the Commission would have to make up the time  lost. Mrs, Myrdal therefore asked, on behalf of the  Programme Commission, that as Rule 78 of the  Rules of Procedure was to be suspended, the time-  limit for the submission of new proposals be brought  forward to 16 November, ‘
(102) Mr, MASSAQUOI asked Mra, Myrdal to  consider the possibility of extending the time-limit.
(103) Mrs. MYRDAL remarked that she was simply  doing what the Commission had asked her to do, She    would check the exact date and inform the persons  concerned,
(104) Mp, DAVIES reported that the Administrative  Commission hid complétéd its consideration of the  financial and budgetary questions and staff questions,  and had still five items of the agénda to discuss.  He suggested that, for the discussion of certain  questions, such as Unesco coupons, the "Courier",  and some matters concerning documents and  publications, a joint meeting of the Programme and  Administrative Commissions be arranged, at the  beginning of the following week,  Agreed,
(105) Mr, Davies proposed that Mrs, Myrdal act as  Chairman of the joint meeting.  {106) Mr: MATSUI announced that the Greek delega-  tion had asked for the adjournment of à question  referred to the Legal Committee, He asked whether  arrangements had been made for a meeting of the  Commitiee on the Friday afternoon.
(107) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) said that the  Legal Committee would meet on 20 November, in  the morning. ’  The meeting rose at 11,45 a.m,  FIFTH MEETING
21 November 1956, at 9.30 a, m,  Chairman: Maulana AZAD (India)  TOHE-LBATS FOR THE PRESENTATION OF PROGRAMME  RESOLUTIONS AND AMENDMENTS
(1) Mr, MONTAGNIER (Secretary) read out para-  graphs 2 and 3 vf Rulé 78 of the Rules of Procedure,  stipulating the time-limits within which new prè-  gramme resolutions or amendments to the Proposed  Programme had to be presented.. He reminded the  Committee that, on 13 November 1956, the General  Couference had decided, at thé request of the  Japansze delegation, to suspend the application of  paragraph 2 of Rulé 78 in order to enable delegations  to present new draft résolutions concerning the  major projects.’ Following that decision, the time-  limit for the présentation of draft resolutions or  amendments had beeïñ set at 18 November and it had  besn agreed that the sane exception should apply to  proposals relating to the annex to document 9C/5  Corrigendum 1, By midnight on:16 November, the  Geweral Committee had received 31 new proposals,  of which 21 related to major projects, 2 to the |  sanex to document 9C/5 Corrigenduim 1, and 8 to other  matters. On 20 November, the Committee had  received 3 other proposals, relating neither to the    major projects nor to the annex to document 9C/5  Corrigendum 1, The new proposals had been  classified in three groups: the first included proposals  relating to the major projects, i.e. documents 9C/  DR/87 to 9C/DR/ 84, 9C/DR/96 to 9C/DR/ 102, 8C/  DR/ 106 to 8C/DR/111; the second group consisted  of propésals relating to the annex to document 9C/5  Corrigendum 1, i.e, documents 9C/DR/85 and 9C/  DR/142; Mr, Montagnier thought that the proposals  in those two groups were admissible and could be  submitted to the Programme Commission for  consideration. - CoN .  The third group contained the proposals bearing  the reference numbers 9C/DR/86, 6C/DR/95, 9C/DR/103,  $C/DR/104, 8C/DR/105;, 8C/DR/113, 5C/DR/114,  #C/DR/115, 9C/DR/116, 9C/DR/117 and 8C/DR/118,  . which related neither to the major projects nor to  the annex to document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1 and  therefore should not benefit from the suspension of  Rule 78, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure.
(3) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO asked whether  any of the proposals had budgetary implications and,  it so, what would be their approximate amount.   m-6
(3) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) said it was very  difficult for him to answer that question, for the  proposals concerned had been communicated to him  only that morning and mest of them did not seem to  include an estimate of their budgetary implications,  - 11: 4 =
(4) Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRO felt it would be  wise to take as a principle that only proposals without  budgetary implications should be accepted, though it  would always be possible to consider later on whether  the other proposals were of sufficient interest to be  studied and were unlikely to upset the budget estimates,
(6) Mr, McCLINTOCK agreed that the resolutions  listed in the first two categories could be accepted,  but moved that those in the third category, which had  been received too late and which did not refer to the  major projects, nor to the projects contained in  document 2C/5 Corrigendum 1, should not be  submitted to the General Conference.
(6) Thai proposal’ was supported by | Mr, DAVIES, who  also drew attention to ‘the provisions of paragraph 6  of Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure, which required  that draft resolutions or amendments which had  budgetary, repercussions should be submitted to the  Advisory Committee on Programmé and Budget before  being considered by the appropriate organs of the  General Conference. The General Committee had to  decide whether or not to recommend that that  procedure be followed,
(7) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that  observance of that procedure would very much upset  the schedule of meetings, which was becoming heavier  as the work of the Conference progressed.  He felt it would be unfair to those delegations that  had respected the deadline laid down to accept  resolutions submitted after that date. Furthermore,  if resolutions on any subject were accepted, many  other delegations would wish to submit new proposals  of a general nature,
(8) The CHAIRMAN felt there was much force in the  Director-General's remarks and hoped that the  delegate of Brazil would not press his point.
(9) Mr. de BÉRREDO CARNEIRO" stated that the  Brazilian delegation had no intention of pressing the  point, but some of the proposals concerned seemed  worthy of consideration e. g. document 9C/DR/ 113,  in which the Uruguayan delegation proposed that a  tribute be paid tô Mahatma Gandhi. That suggestion  could be presented in another form, but Mr, Carneiro  said that his delegation would be very sorry if it  were rejected for purely procedural reasons,
(10) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that that  proposal could be included as a minor aspect of the  work plan for the major project on East/West mutual  understanding, and would not, therefore, have to be  presented in the form of a draft resolution.
(11) Mr. KEMENOV felt it was a difficult situation. |  If the Rules of Procedure were strictly applied, the  proposed amendments involving budgetary implica-  tions would have to be rejected; but, on the other    GENERAL COMMITTEE  hand, the General Conference had agreed to :  increase the budge} total by $1, 000, 000, and the  Soviet delegate reminded the meeting that his’  delegation had abstained from voting on that point,  If Member States had been able to foresee such an  increase, they would no doubt haye presented  proposals with budgetary implications within the .  prescribed time -limits; it was only since that - .  decision had been taken, however, that they had been  in a position to draw up precise proposals, Thus,  the problem was to determine whether the Programme  Commission should be authorized to examine the |  proposals involving budgetary implications, The  Soviet delegate felt it would be unwise to refuse that  authorization; account should be taken of the wishes  expressed by certain countries in view of the new  situation, If the Programme Commission was  disposed to accept additional work, useful results  could probably be achieved and the Member States  which had presented proposals would be satisfied,  Mr, Kemenov was convinced that Mrs, Myrdal  would have no objection to such a solution,
(12) Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRO wondered whether  it would not be useful to hear the Director-General's  opinion and his suggestions concerning the distribu-  tion of the amount added to the budget, before  examining the new proposals presented by Member  States.
(13) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL announced that a  document prepared by the Secretariat (9C/5  Corrigendum 4), containing tentativé programme and  budget proposals for the use of the additional  $1, 000, 000, was in process of distribution to all  delegations, That document had been prepared in  great haste and he obviously had to reserve his  right to make minor changes and alterations in the  light of the discussio’ à of the Programine Commis-  sion, and when he had been able to give the matter  further thought. One procedural problem arose from  the distribution of that document, namely: whether  or not the Programme Commission should await the  comments of the Executive Board theréon before  beginning its own consideration of the document,  The work of the Programme Commission would be  delayed by at least one day if that procedure were  followed.  The Director-General indicated that a large  proportion of the additional $1, 000, 000 had been -  allocated to the thiée major projects, ‘and that most  of the proposals made in the document were related  to projects that had already heen described in the  programme and budget documents subrhitted to the  Conference, A few new proposals had, however, been  included, and it had been found possible to give effect  to a number of draft resolutions:
(14) Mrs. MYRDAL indicated that, as Chairman of  the Programme Commission; she did not wish to:  take an active rôle in the current debate, but merely  desired to draw attention to the difference between  those draft resolutions that contained entirély new’  proposals, and those that related to work plans  already established in the various documents sub-  mitted by the Direétor-Genéral. In the latter cise,  delegations could make their proposals during the   GENERAL  discusalon of the relevant project in the Programme  Commission, and there would be no necessity for  the presentation of a draft resolution on the subject,
(18) Mr, SHARIF sought clarification of the remarks  made by the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, He had suggested that draft resolutions  submitted after the 16 November deadline should be  transmitted to the General Conference; but he had not  made it clear whether he meant that delegations could  go on submitting new résolutions after the present  date, ‘He, personally, agreed that it would be unfair  to admit resolutions submitted beyond the ‘stipulated  deadline unless all delegations were given a further  opportunity to submit such’ resolutions, For that  reason he supported the suggestion that those delega-  tions which had submitted their proposals after the  deadline could present those proposals orally during  the discussion of the appropriate item of the  programme, :
(16) Mr, KEMENOV explained that his previous  remarks referred only to thé draft resolutions already  presented in writing, but did pot mean that délega-  tions should not be given the opportunity, of prèsenting  other proposals during the Programme Commission's  meetings, as had been admitted by Mrs. Myrdal, He  remarked that, by accepting the increase in the  budget, Member States had undertaken {0 make  additional efforts and that it would be illogical to  refuse them the right to voice their opinions on the  use to which the extra money was to be put, He hoped  that the General Committee would accept Mrs.  Myrdal's view,  {17) Mr, SHARIF clarified his position, He had felt  that it would be unfair to prevent delegations from  submitting further resolutions if those presented  after the 16 November deadline were accepted. He  therefore thought that those resolutions should not be  accepted, but that the proposals they contained could  be raised orally during the discussions of the Pro-  gramme Commission.
(18) Mr, MATSUI agreed with Mr, Sharif. He. .  reminded the meeting that the suspension of Rule 78,  paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure had been -  accepted on certain conditions, and emphasized that,  in the interests of impartiality, proposals which had  not been presented within the prescribed time-limits  should not be considered,
(18) Mr, KEMENOV pointed out that the substance of  the problem would remain unchanged, whatever  solution were adopted, and that the Programme  Commission would have, in one way or another, to  examine the suggestions of Member States, In those  circumstances, it would no doubt be preferable to  transmit to that Commission the proposals already  presented, The Soviet delegate agreed with Mr.  Sharif's argument that, in order to be fair, even  proposals presented after 16 November should be  accepted,
(20) Mrs. MYRDAL felt that some clarification of  her previous statement was necessary. The  Programme Commission would require an analysis
297     COMMITTEE II-5  of the draft resolutions to be prepared by. the  Secretariat, showing which resolutions contained  entirely new proposals, and which related to work  plans and projects already in the programme, As that  analysis would take some time to prepare, however,  she had suggested that minor proposals and amend-  ments could be brought before the Programme  Commission orally, during the course of its dis-  cussions, That, of course, would require some  definition of the word "minor",
(21) Mr, RAADI admitted that certain proposals  which did not relate to the major projects were of  great interest, but fell the Committee should first  examine the draft resolutions relating to the major  projects. Reminding the meeting that the General  Conference and the Programme Commission had both  decided to agree to exceptions only in favour of the  latter group of draft resolutions, he emphasized that  a different proc€dure would be liable to create  confusion and that a policy should be laid down for  the Programme Commission in order to avoid  lengthy discussions.
(22) Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRO felt it would be  dangerous foi the Programme Commission to  commit itself béfore examining the Director-  General's proposals. The Director-General had  prepared estimates with regard to the wisest  manner of utilizing the additional $1,000, 000 and  those estimates would have to be studied first, The  Programme Commission would always be able, later  on, to take up some of the proposals which it  considered to be of interest, e.g. the propésal  concerning the Unesco Institute for Social Sciences  in Cologne - with a view to giving effect to them  within the limits of the remaining available funds.
(23) The CHAIRMAN felt that the consensus of  opinion in the meeting was that proposals which-  related to projects already in the programme  presented by the Director-General, and which were  put forward with a view to using the additional  $1, 000, 000, - could be presented orally and discussed  in the Programme Commission, but that those resolu-  tions that contained entirely new proposals were a  different matter.
(24) Mr. LAPIE asked whether the words 'resolu-  tions that contained entirely new proposals’ meant  proposals which had been formulated in writing but  had not been presented within the prescribed time-  limits and which related neither to the major  projects nor to the annex to document 8C/5  Corrigendum 1,
(25) The CHAIRMAN indicated that that was so.
(26) Mr, LAPIE took it that all proposals which were  in the nature of amendments could be examined as  such by the Programme Commission, He pointed  out that certain proposals, such as thosé contained  in documents 9C/DR/85, 9C/DR/105, 8C/DR/115  and 9C/DR/116, were not amendments, but  were worthy of serious consideration; it  would be moving too fast to’ reject them  out of hand. ¢   IIt-5
(27) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL maintained that it  would be unfair to other delegations to admit the  resolutions subnitited after the stipulated deadline,  the only way to redress the balance being to extend  the deadline and allow other delegations to submit  resolutions in relation both to the original programme  he had presented, and to the additional $1,000, 000,  Such procedure would cértainly necessitate the  extension of the duration of the General Conference,  If, however, the draft resolutions in question were  not accepted, the Chalrman of the Programme Com-  mission could rule, at any time, whether a proposal  made orally during the discussions of that Commis-  sion was in order, Proposals which merely called  for a change in the work plans for à particular  project could certainly be made orally, and he had no  doubt that some of the draft resolutions referred to  by the delegate of France fell into that category.  Indeed, many of the proposals made in the draft  resolutions in question should have been made in  that form, ‘and should not have been submitted in the  form of resolutions. Such a procedure would in no  way deprive delegates of their right to propose  changes in the method of executing the programme  presented by the Director-General, The Chairman of  the Programme Commission would obviously have a  difficult task, but he thought the matter could be left  in her hands, with the proviso that she could refer  any specific difficulty back to the General Committee.
(28) The CHAIRMAN asked if the meeting wished a  vote to be taken on the various proposals made,
(29) Mr. LAPIE was satisfied with what the Director-  General had said and would not ask for a vote,
(30) The CHAIRMAN announced that the Director-  General's proposal was therefore accepted,
(31) Mr, DAVIES referred to his previous remarks  with regard to the provisions of paragraph 6 of Rule
78 of the Rules of Procedure, and the necessity for  some preliminary study to be made of the draft  resolutions accepted, before their consideration by  the Programme Commission, He felt that those  resolutions should, in any case, be considered by the  Executive Board, and the General Committee should  decide whether or not it wished to recommend  suspension of paragraph 6 of Rule 78,
(32) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL did not see how the  Programme Commission could complete its work in  the time at its disposal if it had to wait for the  comments of the Executive Board on the proposals.  The Board would meet as soon as possible, but he  saw no reason why the draft resolutions in question  should not be submitted to the Programme Commis-  sion immediately, the comments of the Executive  Board thereon being transmitted at the earliest  possible moment.
(33) Mr. VERONESE (Vice-Chairman of the  Executive Board) stated that it was very difficult for  the Executive Board to cxamine, during the session,  all the problems on which the General Conference  wished to have its advice before considering the later  items on its agenda; and that it was only by making    GENERAL COMMITTEE  great efforts that it could accomplish its work  within the time-limits imposed on it without delaying  the work of the Conference,  Mr, Veronese also pointed out that the Board had  been asked to consider the question of the new draft  resolutions and that it was to discuss them at its  meeting on thé following day, That discussion would  be as rapid as possible, but Mr, Veronèse could not  indicate in advance exactly how long it would take,
(84) Mr, DAVIES felt that the Committee would have  regretfully to accept the situation in the hope that it  would be possible to make better arrangements in  future years,
(35) The CHAIRMAN asked if the Committee agrèed  to recommend to the General Conference that the  provisions of paragraph 6 of Rule 78 of the Rules of  Procedure be suspended with respect to the draft  resolutions just accepted,  Agreed,
(36) Mr, MARTINEZ COBO asked what would  happen to proposals, such as those contained in  documents’ 9C/DR/ 107 and 9C/DR/115, which had no  budgetary implications, or that containéd in document
9C/DR/113, which could not bé included in the work  on East/West relations, as it concerned addresses  to be delivered during the Genéral Conference, He  considered that a tribute should be paid to Mahatma  Gandhi, as the spiritual representative of the Indian  people,  In short, he thought that, for the purposes of dis-  cussion, the proposals could be classified in three  groups: firstly, those which would give rise tô the  establishment of new bodies with budgetary imiplich-  tions, such'as that contained in document 9C/DR/103  for the establishment of an International ‘Cotnputation  Centre, or that contained in document 9C/DR/118,  which had been presented by Mexico; having been  submittéd at the last moment, those proposils would  upset the budget estimates; secondly, those which  constituted amendments, such as the proposal  contained in document 8C/DR/105 for the publication  of the Unesco "Courier" in Rusaian, and that  contained in document 8C/DR/114, which were no  less interesting for being amendments; ; and thirdly,  the proposal, contained in document 9C/DR/113,  that a tribute should be paid to Gandhi, and that  contained in document 9C/DR/ 115 with regard to the  protection of children from the possible adverse  influence of press, film, radio and television; those  proposals had no budgetary implications.
(37) Mrs, MYRDAL thought the Committee should be  absolutély clear as to the decision taken, It had been  decided not to transmit the draft resolutions listed In  the third category to the Programme Commission,  but to leave it to the delegations concerned to make  the proposals contained therein orally to the  Programme Commission, if those proposals related  to projects thut already existed in the programme  presented by the Director-General, Those draft  resolutions that contained completely new pro-  posals, however, would be excluded, and the  Chairman of the Programme Commission would  refer back to the General Committee’ any item   GENERAL COMMITTEE  which appeared to give rise to particular dif-  ficulty.
(38) The CHAIRMAN felt that that clarification made  the position quite clear and that the discussion could  therefore be closed,  ACCEPTANCE BY THE PROGRAMME COMMISSION OF PROPOSALS  FOR MINOR BUDGETARY ADJUSTMENTS
(39) Mrs, MYRDAL sought the guldance of the Com-  mittee regarding the extent to which proposals for  minor budgetary adjustments could be received from  the floor during meetings of the Programme Commis-  sion, Paragraph 3 of Rule 78 of the Rules of  Procedure had always been interpreted to mean that  proposals for such minor budgetary adjustments could  be made in the course of the discussions of the  Programme Commission, However, the situation  had become rather difficult with regard to the  additional budgetary provision of $1, 000, 000, several  proposals for budgetary changes having already been  made from the floor in the Programme Commission.  The delegate of Brazil had proposed a possible  solution when he had suggested that, after a full  discussion of such proposals, decision thereon might  be réserved to the end of the Commission's session.  The necessary decisions could then be taken in the  Ught of the total financial fmplications of all the  proposals made, and of the amount of funds that  remained available.
(40) The CHAIRMAN hoped the Committee would  agree that proposals for minor budgetary adjust-  ments could be received from the floor in the -  Programme Commission, provided the total budgetary  ceiling of the Organization was not exceeded.  Agreed,  DRAFT RESOLUTION SUBMITTED BY GREECE  (document 9C/DR/4 Rev.)  {41} Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) drew the General  Committee's attention to document 9C/DR/4 Rev. in  which the Greek delegation informed the Director-  General of its desire to amend the draft resolution  presented by its Government in September 1956 and  proposed a new text in its place, The Greek delega-  ton indicated that it would give orally the explanations  it proposed to make to the General Conference, and  requested the Director-General to take all the neces-  sary steps to bring that information to the knowledge  of the General Conference and to have all the neces-  sary corrections made in the published document
(6C/DR/ 4).  Mr, Montagnier asked whether the General  Committee felt ft necessary to report to the Confer-  ence on the question, in accordance with Rules 14  and 36 of the Rules of Procedure.
(42) Mr. McCLINTOCK expressed his delegation's  view that the matter should be submitted directly  to the plenary meeting to be held immediately  after the current meeting of the General 7  Committee,    m-8
(43) That proposal was seconded by Mr, MATSUI  (Japan) and Mr, LAPIE (France) and unanimously  adopted,
(44) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) stated that the  General Conference, on receiving the original draft  resolution presented by the Greek delegation, had  expressed doubts as to the possibility of including it  in the agenda and had decided to consult the Legal  Committee. As a new wording had been proposed,  the General Conference had to decide whether that  text was in conformity with the Rules of Procedure  and whether it should be referred to the Legal  Committee or included immediately in its agenda,  PROGRAMME OF WORK
(45) Mr, MONTAGNIER (Secretary) presented the  proposed time-table of work for 21, 22 and 23  November,  The Programme Commission would meet every  day in the morning and in the afternoon, Working  Party No, ! would meet on 21 November in the  morning and in the afternoon, on 22 November in the  afternoon, and on 23 November in the morning.  Working Party No, 2 would meet on 23 November in  the afternoon, in order to discuss {ts report, Working  Party No. 3 would meet on 22 November in the morn-  ing and in the afternoon, and on 23 November in the  afternoon in order to examine its report. Working  Party No, 4 would meet on 22 November in the  morning and in the afternoon, Working Party No. 5  would meet on 23 November in the morning and in  the afternoon.  The Administrative Commission would meet on
21 November in the afternoon, on 22 November in  the morning, and on 23 November in the afternoon.  The Committee on Reports of Member States would  meet on 22 November in the afternoon,  The Legal Committee would meet on 23 November  in the morning,  The Executive Board would meet on 22 November  in the morning.  The General Committee would meet on 23 November  in the morning. ;  Mr, Montagnier said that no meétings were planned  for 24 November, in order to enable delegates to take  part In the ceremonies commemorating the 2, 500th  anniversary of the birth of the Buddha; he added that  the Vice-President of the Republic would receive  delegates on 23 November at 5.15 p.m,
(48) Mrs. MYRDAL pointed out that the Programme  Commission had been deprived of a number of  meetings at the beginning of its session, and was  about three meetings behind its schedule, She knew  that it was extremely difficult to organize extra  meetings, but wondered whether the Commission  could not meet after the official reception on
23 November from, say, 6,30 to 8.30 p.m.
(47) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) thought it would  be wiser to provide for evening meetings during the  week running from 26 to 30 November; the working  parties would have practically completed their work  and the necesaary technical staff would be available,   ms GENERAL
(48) In Connexion with'item 19 of the reviséd agénda  of the ninth sdision (éécuisent 9C/1 Rev; )," Mv,  ZEISSL sought the authorisation of thé General -  Committed for the Committee on Reports of Member  States tô deal with the sections of document 9C/7  which were of interest to it, viz: paragraphs 18,
19 and 20 of that document,
(49) There being no objection, the CHAIRMAN  announced that that permission was accorded,
(50) Mr, MONTAGNIER (Secretary) pointed out  "COMMITTEE  that certain sections of document 8C/7 had not yet"  been submitted to any of the organs of the Confer-’  ence, The General Commitiee would decide at a  forthcoming meeting which body should study them  ‘and when they should be debated.
(61) The CHAIRMAN indicated that that matter  would be discussed at the next meéting of the  Committee, as suggested,  The meeting rose at 11 a, m,    SIXTH MEETING
23 November 1956, at 10,30 a.m,  Chairman: Mr. MARTINEZ COBO (Ecuador)  PROGRESS OF WORK
(1) Mrs, MYRDAL teported that the Programme  Commission was behind its schedule although it had  been working intensively. The Commission would  accordingly need to hold four or five night meetings  the following week.
(2) Mr, MONTAGNIER (Secretary) pointed out that,  if that proposal wéiré adopted, the time-table for the  meetings of the Programme Commission would be as  followed: morning meetings from 9, 30 a.in, to 1 p.m,,  afternoon meetings from 3 to 5,30 p.m., evening  meetings from 6,30 to 9 p.m.
(3) The CHAIRMAN asked whether that time-table,  under which the Programme Commission would hold  three meetings a day, was approved,
(4) The proposal was adopted.
(5) Mr. DAVIES sald that’ the’ Administrative  Commission was progressing satisfactorily, with its  work, The questions concerning the Headquarters  ot Unesco had been ¢ompleted and thé Commission  was dealing with relations with international non-  governmental organizations; the item rélating to  salariés and allowances would bé raised thai .-  afternoon. The, report of the Legal Committee ‘would  be available to the Commission the following week  and he foresaw that the Commission would be in a  position $9 complete its agenda within a satisfactory  time-limit.  He drew attention ig the fact that Chapter 5 of  Part HI of the, Budget, which frinied to the Bureau,  of Relations with Member States, ‘had been referred  toa trorking party. for study: ‘that t working party.  would need ah. opinion from the Programme ‘  Commission as to thé work load of the  proposed Arabic unit included under that  chapter,
(6) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  said that the Director-General would be willing to,  submit such a work programme,’ prepared in co-  operation with the Arab Member States, to the … -  Programme Commission. The work programme  would have as its main subjects assistance to the  National Commissions; particularly with regard to  translations, and activities in mass communication.  The Chairman of the Programme Commission might  be requested to consider that item in the ligt of  the information provided. '  In reply to a question from Mrs, Myrdal as to -  whether the documentation would be available in  time for the Commission to consider that item in  connexion with its study of mass communication, '  Mr, Adiseshiah confirmed that the Commission would  at least have an oral statement submitted to it by that  time.  {n Mr. MATSUI sald that the’ Legal Committee's  work was proceéding normally, and that it would  need two more meetings to complete its work and  prepare its réport, unless new questions were  submitted to it.
(8) Mr, ZEISSL reported that his Committee had  already completed its work,
(9) The CHAIRMAN ‘asked whether a joint meeting  of the Programme ‘sid Addrtitgirative Coininissions  was felt to be desirable. .
(10), Mrs,” MYRDAL agreed that such a ‘meeting ‘would  be desirable. However, partly in view of the Pro-  gramme Commission's work load and partly because   of the technical nature of the question, it might be