(48) In Connexion with'item 19 of the reviséd agénda  of the ninth sdision (éécuisent 9C/1 Rev; )," Mv,  ZEISSL sought the authorisation of thé General -  Committed for the Committee on Reports of Member  States tô deal with the sections of document 9C/7  which were of interest to it, viz: paragraphs 18,
19 and 20 of that document,
(49) There being no objection, the CHAIRMAN  announced that that permission was accorded,
(50) Mr, MONTAGNIER (Secretary) pointed out  "COMMITTEE  that certain sections of document 8C/7 had not yet"  been submitted to any of the organs of the Confer-’  ence, The General Commitiee would decide at a  forthcoming meeting which body should study them  ‘and when they should be debated.
(61) The CHAIRMAN indicated that that matter  would be discussed at the next meéting of the  Committee, as suggested,  The meeting rose at 11 a, m,    SIXTH MEETING
23 November 1956, at 10,30 a.m,  Chairman: Mr. MARTINEZ COBO (Ecuador)  PROGRESS OF WORK
(1) Mrs, MYRDAL teported that the Programme  Commission was behind its schedule although it had  been working intensively. The Commission would  accordingly need to hold four or five night meetings  the following week.
(2) Mr, MONTAGNIER (Secretary) pointed out that,  if that proposal wéiré adopted, the time-table for the  meetings of the Programme Commission would be as  followed: morning meetings from 9, 30 a.in, to 1 p.m,,  afternoon meetings from 3 to 5,30 p.m., evening  meetings from 6,30 to 9 p.m.
(3) The CHAIRMAN asked whether that time-table,  under which the Programme Commission would hold  three meetings a day, was approved,
(4) The proposal was adopted.
(5) Mr. DAVIES sald that’ the’ Administrative  Commission was progressing satisfactorily, with its  work, The questions concerning the Headquarters  ot Unesco had been ¢ompleted and thé Commission  was dealing with relations with international non-  governmental organizations; the item rélating to  salariés and allowances would bé raised thai .-  afternoon. The, report of the Legal Committee ‘would  be available to the Commission the following week  and he foresaw that the Commission would be in a  position $9 complete its agenda within a satisfactory  time-limit.  He drew attention ig the fact that Chapter 5 of  Part HI of the, Budget, which frinied to the Bureau,  of Relations with Member States, ‘had been referred  toa trorking party. for study: ‘that t working party.  would need ah. opinion from the Programme ‘  Commission as to thé work load of the  proposed Arabic unit included under that  chapter,
(6) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  said that the Director-General would be willing to,  submit such a work programme,’ prepared in co-  operation with the Arab Member States, to the … -  Programme Commission. The work programme  would have as its main subjects assistance to the  National Commissions; particularly with regard to  translations, and activities in mass communication.  The Chairman of the Programme Commission might  be requested to consider that item in the ligt of  the information provided. '  In reply to a question from Mrs, Myrdal as to -  whether the documentation would be available in  time for the Commission to consider that item in  connexion with its study of mass communication, '  Mr, Adiseshiah confirmed that the Commission would  at least have an oral statement submitted to it by that  time.  {n Mr. MATSUI sald that the’ Legal Committee's  work was proceéding normally, and that it would  need two more meetings to complete its work and  prepare its réport, unless new questions were  submitted to it.
(8) Mr, ZEISSL reported that his Committee had  already completed its work,
(9) The CHAIRMAN ‘asked whether a joint meeting  of the Programme ‘sid Addrtitgirative Coininissions  was felt to be desirable. .
(10), Mrs,” MYRDAL agreed that such a ‘meeting ‘would  be desirable. However, partly in view of the Pro-  gramme Commission's work load and partly because   of the technical nature of the question, it might be
300   GENERAL  préférable to establish a joint working party of both  Commissions which could meet concurrently with -  the Programme Commission,
(11) Mr, DAVIES feit’ that to be : a most appropriate  suggestion, He would wélcome the views of the  Genéral Committee on the size of such a group as  well as practical information from the Secretariat on  the holding of such meetings.
(12) The CHALAMAN thought that the Chairmen of the  two Commissions should agree on a date for the joint  meeting. ;-  ‘  {13) Mr, MONTAGNIER (Secretary) pointed out that  such a meeting could not be held before 28 November,  Document $C/DR/121 ‘concerning the procedure for  présentation by Member Statés of proposals rejard-  ing the programme and budget for 1959-1960 should  be referred to the joint working party.
(14) The CHAIRMAN asked whether that proposal was  approved,
(15) The proposal was adopted,
(16) The CHAIRMAN asked whether it was agreed  that the next plenary meeting of the General Confer-  ence should be held on Friday, 30 November,
(17) It was so agreed,
(18) The CHAIRMAN ‘explained t that the agondd’ for  thatplenary T meeting would inciude the study of the  report of the Committee on Reports of Member  States, the fixing of the ‘place és ‘date ot the tenth  session ‘of the ‘General Conférence, and discussion  of document 8C/DR/ 42 submitted by the Egyptian  delegation, amendments proposed by’ the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics and by Israel (documents
9C/DR/119 and 9C/DR/120), and document 9C/DR/
4 Rev, submitted by the Greek delegation, ;
(19) Mr, ALLYN understood that it was not possible,  due to the Symposium on Buddhism being held ii the  Conference Hall, for a'plenary meeting to be held  before the toilowing Friday. However, in view of the  great urgency of the draft resolutions presented by  both the Greek and the Egyptian delegations, he  urged that those questions should be considered first  of all at that meeting.  DRAFT. RESOLUTION PRESENTED ‘BY AUSTRALIA  (éocurient 9c/ DR/ 123)
(20) The CHAIRMAN proposed that’ the General  Committee take up document 9C/DR/ 122 presented  by the Australian delegation, and called upon the  Director-General to make a statement concerning  that document,  (ai) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said har 1 he had  already foreseen, more than three yéars re sly,  the problem referred to in the. draft _rzsolution  submitted by the Australian delegation. , He had  accordingly decided, and had so indicated two or  COoOMMITTER
301  three years before at a private meeting of the  Executive Board, to offer his resignation to be  effective as from the end of the tenth session of the  General Conference; as it would greatly facilitate  the Board's procédures if the Director-General's  term of office were to éxpire at the end of à session  of the General Conference, The Executive Board  would thus be able, in the normal course of ‘events,  to solve the problem raised by the Australian  delegation,
(22) Mr, DAVIES emphasized that the Australian  delegation's sole preoccupation in introducing its  proposal had been to ensure orderly work and sound  administrative procédures, It had présented its  proposal at that juncture in order to give the ninth  session of the General Conference and the Executive  Board ‘ample time to study the matter,
(23) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was in full agreement  with the motives guiding the Australian delegation,  The matter was governed by purely technical  considerations,
(24) The CHAIRMAN said that the Director-General's  statement would be recorded in the minutes, as would  the General Committee's appreciation of his gesture,  which would avoid the need for convening an extra-  ordinary session of the General Conference to deal  with the question,
(25) Mr, MONTAGNIER (Secretary) sald {hat the  exchange of viéws which had just taken place seemed  to imply that ‘draft resolution 9C/DR/122 would be  discussed directly in plénary meeting, instead of  being first referred to a Commission,
(26) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL sald that in view of  the statement he had made, which he would be glad’  to repeat in ‘plenary méeting, the Australian delega-  tion would perhaps be willing to withdraw its draft  resolution, ‘Any debate on it would therefore appear  to be superfluous.
(27) Mr, 'KEMENOV éinphasized the Impériarice ‘of  the resolution presented by the Australian delegation  and thanked that delegation for calling the Conference's  attention té a question which deserved careful thought  and which iight have such sérious budgetary implica-  tions as the érganization of an extraordinary session  of the Géneral Conference.
(28) Mr. KABIR agreed with the delegate of the  Soviet Union that’ ‘the draft resolutiôn raised à most  important issue, ‘However, he was of the opinion  that any discussion on {t would be redundant in view  of the statement which thé Director-General had ‘  just made, He expressed appreciation of the  Director-General's gétiérous gesture in foregoing  part of his tenure of office, ,Ç
(29) The CHAIRMAN asked whethior tie: distussion could  be postponed until a later’ meeting of thé General Com-  mittee, in order to give thé Australian delégation time  to decide whether or not it would maintain ita proposal.  Agreed.   Im-6 GENERAL COMMITTEE  DRAFT RESOLUTION PRESENTED BY BELGIUM  (document, 9O/BUR/PROV/13)
(30) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the  question at issue was to decide whether, at that  juncture in the session, the General Committee should  allow a draft resolution to be accepted for considera-  tion by the General Conference, Without commenting  at all on the merits of the document in question, he  would recommend that it be transmitted to the  Programme Commission, since it concerned events  which had taken place after the beginning of the  session.
(31) Mr, KEMENOV remarked that the Belglan draft  resolution referred to paragraph 222 of Chapter 1  (Education) of the Proposed Programme and proyided  for an allocation of $250,000, It would be well for  the General Committee to keep to the decisions it had  taken previously in similar cases - decisions which  were recorded in the "Journal" No, 13 (Section LI,  page 1), where it was stated that the Committee  recommended:  "(b) that those draft resolutions which constitute  new proposals should not be receivable,"
(32) Mr. von TRUTZSCHLER tormally supported the  Director-General's recommendation to transmit the  draft resolution for consideration by the General  Conference, although that should not be. taken to  imply that he had committed himself as to the word-  ing of the proposal, The fact that Unesco had  received communications from the United Nations  regarding relief for Hungary showed the extent to  which that body considered that Unesco should con-  cern itself with those matters,
(33) Mr, KABIR recalled that the Director-General  had stated that he did not envisage Unesco's contri-  buting to relief for Hungary in connexion’ with the  United Nations communication, He particularly .  welcomed, therefore, the Director-General's  recommendation on the draft resolution under  consideration; the draft resolution was a clear-cut  instance where assistance from Unesco was called  for. As for the manner. in which such assistance  could be madé available, he wondered whether the  most appropriate method to meet such an emergency  would not be by'a withdrawal from the Working  Capital Fund, He. would not, for his part, object to  such assistance béing given, even though the amount  of $500, 000 was involved,
(34) Mr, ALLYN would welcome clarification as to  whether the plenary méeting would have to vote on  the question whether the draft resolution should be  transmitted to the Programme Commission,
(35) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL satd that, as the  draft resolution was presented in the form of an  amendment to Chapter I, paragraph 223, of the  budget, it would appear proper for tha Programme  Commission to consider it; there would be no need  to debate the matter in plenary meeting before the  question was referred to the Programme Commis-  sion.  He recalled that he had not been of the opinion
302     that Unesco pssistance to Hungary had been called |  for in connexion with the communication received .  from the United Nations, as that assistance, which  related to supplies, did not fall clearly within  Unesco's purview, The present instance, however,  was entirely different in that it was closer to  Unesco's purpose,  He did not congider it appropriate. to meet the .  situation by effecting withdrawals from the Working  Capital Fund wher the General Conference was in  session, He recalled that the relevant provisions |  authorized him to make withdrawals from the -  Working Capital Fund up to a total ceiling of‘  $300, 000 with the prior approval of the Executive  Board and in order to meet certain categories of  needs, such as increasés in staff salaries and  requests from the United Nations, which might arise,  “The matter of whether the Working Capital Fund  should be increased would be discussed by the  Conference in due course,
(36) Mr, SHARIF fell most strongly that it was  Unesco's dity to give help to the full extent of its  competence and resources, He would support any  increase in the Working Capital Fund or relaxation  of the provisions to that end, and was accordingly in  favour of transmitting the draft resolution to the  Programme Commission,
(37) Mrs, MYRDAL called attention to the factor  of timing involved, Chapter I on Education would be  considered by the Programme Commission only in  the latter half of the following week; certain other  items would be considered at thé beginning’ of the  week and, If adopted, might mean that large )  additional sums would already have been approved,  She took it, furthermore, that the Commission would  have the benefit of the advice of the Executive Board  on the draft resolution,
(38) The CHAIRMAN said that, as the délégué of the  Federal Republic of Germany had accepted the  Director-General's suggestion, à vote would be taken  on whether or not the document in question should be  referred to the Programme Commission. The  General Committee approved the proposal to refer  the document by 11 votes to 1, with 2 abstentions,  ORGANIZATION AND METHODE OF WORK OF THE  GENERAL CONFERENCE (document 6C/7)  . (39) Mr. SECCO ELLAURI (Vice-Chairman of the  Executive Board), said that the Executive Board was  to study the matter that morning. The probable  solution chosen would be to set up a Committee of  nine members which could more easily discuss the  results of the Commissions! deliberations.
(40) Mr. MONT AGNIER (Secretary) pointed. out that  the report on the organization and méthôds of work  of the General Conference (document 9C/7) was  presented by the Board in pursuance of resolution
1.2. 2 adopted by the General Conference at its  eighth session. Certain parts of the report had  already been referred to the Legal Committee aud  the Committee on Reports of Member States, and   GENERAL  the only question which remained to be discussed by  thy General Conference was the future role’ of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget, The  Board had recommended (document 9C/7, Annex,  paragraph 5): (a) that the Committee be abolished and  that jts duties prior to the opening of the session of  the General Conference be in future carried out by  the Executive Board; (b) that the arrangements made  for the ninth session of the General Conference with  regard to the scale of contributions be continued in  future years, The General Conference therefore had  to decide whether the Board was to assume those  dutles for the future,
(41) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL understood that the  {dea had also been put forward in the Executive  Board that the Committee of Nine might be re-  established and might perform the functions of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget,  That proposal would vherefore also have to be taken  into account.
(42) The CHAIRMAN said that perhaps the General  Committee might wish to recommend that the  General Conference adopt paragraph 5 of Annex I to  document 9C/7.
(43) Mr, DAVIES was not clear as to whether the  Board envisaged such a Committee of Nine reporting  back to the Board or directly to the plenary meeting.  Clearly, the Board could set up a committee of its  own whenever it considered desirable, but special  authority would be required to enable such a  committee to make its reports directly to the plenary  meeting,
(44) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL held the view that the  Committee of Nine would submit its report to the  Executive Board, He would welcome the opinion of  the representative of the Executive Board on that  point. ‘
(45) Mr, SECCO ELLAURI (Vice-Chairman of the  Executive Board) said that the Board was concerned  about paragraph 5 of the document in question, The  Committee of Nine which the Executive Board  proposed to set up was not yet in existence, The idea  of its establishment had been accepted by the Bureau  of the Executive Board and was going to be submitted  COMMITTEE
303  to the Board itself at its meeting at 10, 30 that  morning. -
(46) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the Gene ral  Committee would be prepared to have paragraph 5 of  document 9C/7, Annex I, page 4, referred to the  General Conference; it was so agreed.  COMMUNICATIONS ADDRESSED TO THE PRENDENT OF TUE  GENERAL CONFERENCE (document 0C/BUR/PROV/11)
(47) Mr, MONTAGNIER (Secretary) sald that the  Secretariat had received a letter from Mr, André  Chamson, President of the International PEN Club,  requesting that a commission of writers of inter-  national repute be set up with the co-operation of  Unesco to fulfil, in professional matters, with  respect to the Hungarian PEN Club, a mission  similar to that to be carried out by the United  Nations observers,
(48) Mr. ALLYN considered that the General Com-  mittee had no other course open to it than to note the  document and to circulate it to the General Confer-  ence in accordance with previous procedure,
(49) Mr. DAVIES supported that view,
(50) Mr, KEMENOV agreed with the representative  of the United States of America with regard to the  first part of his statement; it was true that the  General Committee had already taken decisions on  similar communications, but he did not consider  that the Committee had ever referred them to the  General Conference for any other purpose than  information. It would be well to keep to that  procedure,  {51) Mr. KABIR understood that the procedure was  in accordance with past practice. No recommenda-  tion would accompany the document circulated.
(52) The CHAIRMAN said that the document in _  question would be transmitted to the General Con-  ference for information,  The meeting rose at 10, 40 a. m.