22 November 1985,  _ Chairman: Mr. SAVAIN (Haiti)  ITEM 19,4 OF THE AGENDA: AMENDMENTS TO THE DIRECTIVES  CONCERNING UNESCO'S RELATIONS WITH INTERNATIONAL NON-  GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (document 9C/ ADW/ 19)
(1) ‘The CHAIRMAN reminded the Commission that,  at the previous mieefing, (he representative of the  Executive Board had given a cléàr explanation of the  reasons for the amendments proposed to the Directives  concerning Unesco'a relations with international non-  governmental organizations, and of the object of those  amendments, ‘
(2) Mr. BERKELEY, (Ottice. of the Director-General)  said that the proposals: set cui in document 9C/ADM/
19 had been studied in almost identical form at the  eighth session but that the General Conference had  been against taking an immediate decision’and had  instructed thé Executive Board to submit a report on  the questions concerned at the ninth session.’ At the  Board's request, the Director-General had sent a .  questionnaire to Member | States and National Commis -  sions and the repoit had. been drawn up on the basis  of the data supplied in the answers received to that .  questionnaire, “The proposals contained in document
9C/ADM/19 had therefore been drawn up with the  authorization of the General Conference and Executive  Board, Mr. Berkeley drew the attention of delegates  to the proposals’ on pages 11 et seq, which were.  designed to simplify the system of contracts in force  for the graut of subventions. ‘ The question had been  studied with particular care by the Executive Board,
(3) MF,’ de Hôog (tothe riands) asked whether. the _  proposed amendments took into account a letter trom  the Swedish Natiopal Commiseion,. reproducedin ©  document 8c/ADM/17, Addendum 2, which advocated  a complète revision of’ ‘the list of international organiz-  ations approved for. consultative arrangements, on the  basis of new criteria, - .  wh 4
(4) Mi. BERKELEY Gin of the: Director-General)  stated that, in April 1588 1 nt Executive Board had.  made, à very careful Judy, Su thé question. of the :  criteria. to be dopled i a appioyidg hon-goverame tal  organisations for edend arrangements ; and,’ in  the light of replies récélved né. Member ‘States,  had come tg the conclusion’ that there was fo need to.  adopt’ stricter ‘measures’ that in thé past: The Swedish  National ‘Commissions Teply, had not reached the …  Board at that time, But, u nder the terms of the  ’ Directives in force, the Conference had, at its ninth  session, {6 carry out à Feviaion of the ist of inter-  national organizations already approved for  consultative drrangements, and since it had been  decided, at the request of the Executive Board to’  carry out that révision after consideration of  documént sC/ADM/ 19," it would appear that the
608  ‘to a few selected  “The éritéria, however, should not  ADMINIBTRATIVE COMMISSION  MEETING ERS  at 10,30 a.m.  Swedish National Commission's request had been  met, -
(8) ‘Mr; MUNRO (Australia) sought clarification at  the status of the document, He understood that the  Executive Board had'éonsidered the matter at its
43rd session, -but it appeared that the amendments  proposed in docurdent 9C/ADM/19 were put forward.  by the Director-General, He wondered, therefore, .if  the Executive Board endorsed those proposals in  detail, He spoke with particular reference to the  amendment proposed in the last seritence of the text  relating to the definition of subyentions (Section III, -  A), to the effect that a subvention was an outright  payment without any refund of any part unused at the  end of the financial period. That was such an  important question of principle that he would like to  be reassured that it had been considered and approved  by the Executive Board.
(6) Mr, VERONESE (italy) (Representative. of the  Executive Board) explained that the text submitted to  the Administrative Commission had been drawn up by  the Director-General and later approved by the  Executive Board, The proposals set out in document
9C/ADM/19 might have come from different sources  and be based on suggestions {rom the Board itself,  from Member States or from the Director-General,  but the Board had examined them all in their final  form. The note following paragraph A of Section II  was merely an explanation of the ¢ history of the‘  definition, . :  fi à Shi > oe -  (a). Mr. STAHL (5 (Sweden) emphasised that; tn maïlig  its comments on, © ‘matter, - his Naïlonal Commission  had agreed in principle. with the contlusions reached by  mission, As indicated j in, he ‘text. read out by the |  delegate. of. the > Netherlands, - his National | Commission  the’ ‘Executive, Board and fe: Exiernal Relations Com»  -had felt that some change. of policy Was necessary; :  and thought that the ‘organizations concerned should at  least give some: ‘proof. of their suitability. ‘and their,  desire to co-operate in Unesco!s. work. ; It was of the’  opinion ‘that consultative s tatus should be. granted only  led ental organizatio LC        uo fan  other bodies being granted status of another, ty  be too narr >  severe, . and ¢ the. decision. should certainly be left in.  the hands ‘of. the Executive Board in each case, His .  delegation had no objection to the practice whereby.  the Dire clor:General provided certain bodies which’  worked : in very ‘close ‘co-operation. with the Sévretariat  with rent-free office ‘space at Unesco headquarters,  taking that service into account when determining the  amount of their subvention. His delegation also felt  that responsibility for determining the total sum to  be paid in subventioris, and its distribution between      ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISIION  the various Departments of the Secretariat, should .  rest with the General Conference, whereas the power  to grant subventions to specific bodies should remain  in the hands of the Executive Board. ‘
(8). Mr, PLATZ (Federal Republic of Germany) ‘sought  claritication of the criteria by which the Executive  Board would undertake its evaluation of non-govern- ,  mental organizations having consultative status with  Unesco, and the manner in which that evaluation would  be conducted, He felt that inclusion of those criteria  in the Directives themselves would enable them to be  applied in a more specific and detailed manner,
(9) Mr, VERONRSE, (Italy) (Representative. at, the  Executive Board) pointed ouf that the Commission  would not make its critical study of the List of aon-  governmental or ganizations approved for consiiitative  status until it took up document 9C/ADM/ 16, and that  it would do so on the basis of the criteria proposed  in document 8C/ADM/19, The choice itself should,  in the Board's opinion, be made by the Director-  . General in co-operation with the Executive Board,
(10) Ta reply to a question from Mr, SUNDARAM (India)  regarding cértain organizations which were s¢ eking  admission to consultative arrangements, Mr,  VERONESE asked that the ‘question be ralséd when  document, 9C/ADM/17 was examined. ,
(11) Mrs. WE FFELFINGER (United States of, America)  . suggested that the document be considered section by  “. section,  * Agreed, Co ; |  “q12) AL hi request of the Chairman, Mr: BERKELEY  (Office of the Dirdctor-General) Began presentation  of the prijposed ‘sinendments’ section by section. ‘  Preatible: Mr; Berkeley explained that thé two  clauses adopted b/ the General Conference ju. .  Florente. An 1950} had heén found to be over severe.  _Practi/al experluiiçe | had’ even shown them to be  _ disparaging to non: goverpmental ‘organizations, and  "It wa, télt they sliculd be replaced by the text  . appeiiring in the ‘Fight “hand column on page, '3 of the  ‘ document, : PI Soy  - {13y “There being viti enjestion, that amendaient’ was
0. Adopted, i ;  Section - Puis 8 Relationships - TRES 0         cal Mr. BERK) ‘(ottiéé x he Ditéciée-cienera)  aréw attention to the äimériément proposed with -  ï respect to Îteim 1’ "Subventions" of Part Hi - ‘Financial  ‘Arrangements - which répresented ménily à better  “definition of the’ ‘ériteria laid down in the ‘original -  text” There + was. "no changs of substance. °  . As There bei no objection, that snendiment was . a.  sdopked. = "à QE . vu re  E Section ir + - Géñeral/ Arrangements without airéot  * Financial Implications ‘  Lace   AU Mr, BE, RKELEY (ottice of the Dirdétor-Genera))  Lf  sos  V-16  drew attention ta the jmportant. addition proposed to  item 1 of Part B.- Procedure for selecting tha ….  organisations with which Unesco may enter : into cons,  sultative relationship,;. The Secretariat was Tequired  to submit all applications for. admission to consultative  status to Member Staen ‘for, their comments, before  placing the. matter before the Executive Board, and  certain difficulties had arisén as there had never  been any time-limit for the. submisaion of such;  applications, By stipulating that such applications  should be made at least four months before the opening  of the session of the Gensral Conferencé, the a.  Secretariat tél it would haye sufficient time to observe  the necessary procedure and to prepare the relevant  documents for submission te the General Conference.
(17) Before proceeding w ith’ ‘éonsideration "of, that  proposal, ; Mr, "ARTHUR, {United Kingdom) ‘aoiight  permission to propose an ameridrent with regard to  Part A of the bits Orenntzations Slighie’ for  to that théluded in thé paragraph relafinig to subs"  ventions were made in the crite ria ‘ated, A Part A,  paragraph 1, He théretore Proposed | thal t 3 words  "he able (6 maké a significant contribution to the  achievement of Upesco's qhjectives". be inserted as  a new paragraph (a) of ‘that text, ‘thé existing para-  graph (d) becorning (6). Hé felt that it ‘was rather too  ‘easy for an internazional non-governmental organization  . to conform to thé criteria. laid down, ‘and the addition  he had proposed would. narrow the field a ‘little.
(18) Mr. 'VERONESE tas (Representative of the  Executive Board) indicated that the Board would have  no objection to that’ proposal,
(19) The motion was seconde} by the delegates of the  Netherlands,’ Sweden, Braiil and Greece. ‘
(20) ar; "MAÏYERE Ÿ: (ByelsFudatan 86 ev Sodtattst  Republic) polnted out that’ poragraph | (b) ‘alfenay  contained a Bone oa similar ‘to! hat which the. e  Sree  inc Tnited bm proposed amehdinent. - ude the  vx Te
(21) Mr ARTHUR (Untied ing) satà bé outa”  "have ro objéction to the ameridment’ ‘proposed, by the  delégute of Byclotüésia, providing the ‘wording he -  had suggested was maintained in paragraph’ ‘b),.
(22) ‘After the delegate’ ‘of the ‘Byelorussian Soñet”  Socialist Republic had agreed, the CHAIRMAN asked  ‘the Commission to take a decision bu the addition of  the phrase “and should bé able to make à significant  contribution to the échieveriert ot Unéiscols ne  objectives" to paragraph (b). : :  Adopted.
7 a TT, GLS
(23) Mrs dé HOOG (foto lande) pointed: out t that no  amendment waé proposed to paragraph 1 of section  B; The text stated that the Getieral Conference "shall  examine, à. «. thé proposals submitied by the =  "à   Vis  Exbéutive Board ‘ééncerning the orientations seeking -  admission tè'cotisultative arrangéments', !In his:  opinion, it would be not only ‘more ‘logical bit also  more in ‘conformity with established practice to say  that the General Conference would éiamine not the  proposals of the Executive Board but the applications  of organizations in the ‘light of proposals submitted by  the Board.” He suggested that the text of the paragraph  and of section B be amended accordingly.
(24) Mr,” BERKELEY (Office of the Ditector General)  thought that, if the représentative of the Executive  Board had no objection, the wording proposed by the  delegaie of the Netherlands corresponded more exactly  to the procedure followed, It was the normal practice  for the Board to examine the applications made in the  light of the comments received from Member States,  and to make recommendations thereon to the General  Conference,
(25) Mr. VERONESE (Italy) (Representative of the  Executive Board) indicated his agreement with the  proposal made,
(28) It was agreed to insert the words "in the light of  the Executive Board's recommendations, " after the  words "take a decision," in the first paragraph of item
(27) The complete text of item 1, Part B, as amended,  was then adopted, R
(28) Mr. BERKELEY (Office of the Director-General)  sald that paragraph (b) of section B, 2, the deletion of  which had been requested, was no longer justified  because sessions of the General Conference were held  every two years and the clause provided for a lapse  of two years before a new examination of rejected  applications by the Conference.
(29) The proposed deletion was adopted,
(30) With reference to the amendment suggested for  paragraph (iv) of section’ C.1, Mr, BERKELEY (Office  of the Director-General) explained that {t had seemed  illogical to Inform international non-governmental  organizations only about "meetings planned on  subjects" of interest to them, as Unesco carried out  surveys and various other forms ‘of work which did  not always entail cneetings of experts but which were  of equal interest to the organizations. For that  reason, it was proposed to replace that phrase by the  words "activities and projects agreed upon with the  Secretariat",  Adopted.
(31) Mr, BERKELEY (Office of the Director-General)  pointed out another minor amendment: to substitute |  the word "biennially" for "annually" in paragraph  (vil) of section C. 1, because sessions of the Conference  were held every two years.
(32) Mr. de HOOG (Netherlands) wondered whether  it would not bé wise to fix a time-limit for  sending in reports, indicating that they. should,  for instance, reach the Secretariat two or three  months before the opening of the General  Conference.
610     ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION
(33) Mr; BERKELEY (Office ‘of the Director-  General) did not agree,’ It was the Secretariat's -  business to get in the réports and if it performed its  duties conscientiously it should recéive them in  reasonable time, It was only in cases where the  “initiative was not in the hands Of the Secretariat that  it was necessary, to fix a time-limit,
(34) The proposed amendment was approved.
(35) Mr, BERKELEY (office of he Director-General)  explained that the proposed amendment to paragraph |  of section C (vii) (b) was also due to the fact that |  sessions of the Conference were held biennially, The  Director-General ‘sometimes wished to obtain  information on a group of subjects rather than on a  particular subject and it was thereforv advisable to  replace the words "on a definite subject" by "on  definite subjects’.  Adopted.
(36) Mr, BERKELEY (Office of the Director -Géneral)  said thut the amendment to the second’ paragraph of  Section C. 3, consisting In replacing the words’  "Register" by "special list", was proposed at the  request of the United Nations. The system’ used by  the Economic and Social Council differed slightly  from that of Unesco, as it provided for a Category À,  a Category B, and a register, while the Unesco  classification comprised only consultative status and  a register. Non-governmental organizations approved  for consultative arrangements were automatically  included in the United Nations register. To avoid any  confusion, it was thought well to amend the text, The  following clauses would be amended in the same way,  as necessary.  Adopted.  Section III - Subventions
(37) Mr.: BERKELEY (Office of the Director-General)  stressed the importance of Section II, which had been  studied in detail by the Executive Board and its  Extcrnal Relations Commission, The proposed word-  ing was intended to distinguish more clearly than in  the past between a subvention and a contract, A sub-  vention was financial aid to an international non-  governmental organization, while a contract was the  payment of a sum for the execution of a specific task  connected with a part of the Unesco programme, It  was to emphasize that distinction that a new text had  been proposed for sub-section A,
(38) Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  was doubtful sbout the uscfulness of the last sentence  .of the draft ‘definition of à subvention; "It is an  outright payment without refund of any part unused at  the end of the financial period”. In his view, a  subvention was, as stated in the first part of he text,  financial aid granted by Unesco for a definite’ purpose.  The last sentence to which he had referred could only  lead to a mistaken conception of the purpose of the  subvention, It therefore seemed to be unnecessary and  incorrect to include in a general definition of sub+  ventions any provision for cases which the Director-   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  General himself had said were exceptional,  H i at ft à Fri Lies ré
(39) Mr, HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) drew attention  to the explanation’ given: in paragraph 4 of Section E of  the document = Conditiohs and Procedure - of the -  reasons that had led the Difector-General to propose  a return’ to the practice that had existed before the fifth  session of the General Conference, He added that the  sums involved were very small and that the complica-  tion of trying to discover exactly how much of Unesco's  coûtribution to the budget of a given organization had  been spent was out of all proportion to the amount  involved. It was felt that the most appropriate time to  exercise control over the subventions accorded by  Unesco was at the moment they were granted,  i
(40) Mr, VERONESE (Italy) (Représentative of the  Executive Board) pointed out that the fact that part of  s subvention had not been used might be taken into  account when the question of deciding on the renewal  of the subvention arose,
(41) Mr; ZHUKOV (ston of Soviet Socialist Republics)  admitted that possibility,” but insisted nonetheless that  the definition should contain no mention of unused  subventions not having to be refunded. In his view, it  would not necessarily be impossible to demand the  refund of unused parts.
(42) Mr, VERONESE (tialyf’ (Representative of the  Executive Board) thought that a decision on the  possible refund of an unspent balance’ ‘might be left to  the Director-General, who could consider each case  separately. The Comptroller had pointed oul that a  vefund necessitated so many formalities that in most  cases it was better to waive it. The Secretariat would  therefore be the best judge. He proposed that the  words "if such is the opinion of the Director-General"  be added at the end of the paragraph.
(43) Mr. BERKELEY (Office of the Director -General)  thought that suggestion acceptable,
(44) Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) séconded the  proposal of the Vice-Chairman of the Executive Board.  He pointed out that, ‘in certain cases, the non-  utilization of part of à'subvention might be due to  circumstances beyond the control of the beneficiary, and  that it should Le left to the Director-General to assess  the situation, ,
(45) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdoin) 1 felt that an unfair  burden ‘would be placed on the Dirécior-General if he  were to be asked {6 lake a ‘decision, in évery case as to  whether: or not’ an organization, should refund ihe  uñspent balance of its Unesco subvention.‘ He was  strongly of the opinion’ that the Ganerpl. Conference  should decide, as a question of principle, ‘whethir  such unspent balances were to be refunded or n wt, It  was scarcely necessary to point out that, before  granting ay subvention, both the Executive Fiéard and  the General Conference assured thersaulves ty the  merit and bona fides of the receiving body, and it  therefore seemed logical to trust the judgement and.  integrity of that body and not to request any refund of   taspemt balances. Furthermore, it should be remem-  bered thai those unspent balances were not lost from
611  V-16  sight, since the receiving organisations were required  to report thereon and td indicate how they intended to  . utilize such sums in the following financial period.  That report was’ usyally {aken into account in  determining the sire of the next subvention to be  accorded to the body concerned, :
(46) Mr, HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) thanked the  delegate of the United Kingdom for having drawn’  attention to the difficult situatiéi in which the Director-  General would be placed if he wére obliged to take a  decision in‘éach’ dase.’ ‘and for his statement regarding  the reporting of unspent balances, ‘The whole  financial situation of ‘each recelving organization was  examined very carefully by the Secretariat, and any  acéumulation of unspent balances was taken into  account in determining thé amount of the subvention  to bé granted for the following financial period,  He would point out to the delegité of the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics that it was necessary to  include somewhere in the Directives a definition that  would determine what was meant by a subvention, and  would decide its character.
(47) Mt, PETROV (Bulgaria) thought there Was à  difference between the French and Russlan versions  of the new sub-section A, In the French version, the  word "subvention appeared in the first line and the  word "aide" in the last sentence, while in the Russian,  the word "subsidies" was used throughout, The ’  Bulgarian delegate thought that, if the Russian text  were corrected to bring it into line with the French,  the difficulties to which the delegate of the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics had referred would be  removed.
(48) It was decided that the Russian text should be  revised,  {49) Mr, von RUF ZACHLER' (Federal Republic ‘ot  Germany)’ shared the doubts expresséd as to the  desirability of maintaining t the last sentence of the  amendment under discussion, It was the normal  practice of most national administrations to require  the refund of any unspent balances of funds allocated  for a specific purpose, He fesred that a departure  from that practice might eñcoi.gé non-governmental  organizations to use Unesco funds for purposes other  than those for which they were ‘provided.
(50) Mr. BOURGEOIS täwitzerlhüd) thoujght that, in  order to judge | how a subvention had been used, it was  necessary to take into, account’ it only the sum spent,  but also the funds obligated, - There might be some  delay in carrying out a particular activity, for reasons  beyond the control of the organization concerned, and  it was necessary to take into account the obligations  the latter might have to meet aftér the end of the  financial period for which it had been granted the  subvention.
(51) Mr, ARTHUR: (United Kingdom) foli there vas  another argument in favour of the Direcfor-General's  proposal, No non-governmental organization liked to  have to return part of the funds granted to it, so that,  if faced with that nccessity,. it might be tempted to  rush into certain expenditure against its better   v-16  judgement in order to use up any excess funds before  the end of the financial period, If, instead, it could  merely report ay unexpénded balance to the Dirsctor-  General, indicating what use it intended to make of  that sum in the next financial period, wiser spending  would be encouraged. A
(52) Mr, MUNRO (Australia) wondered whether the  objections of the delegate of the United Kingdom and  the Secretariat might not be satisfied if a clause were  to be introdkiced to the effect that, wher7as unspent.  balances would not pormally be refundable, the .  Director-General might, in special cases and with the"  approval of the Executive Board, . require such balances  to be refunded. He shared the views of those delegates  who objected to the inclusion of the definition proposed,  on the gro.nds that it would preclude the possibility of  any refund of unspent funds being made to Unesco by  receiving bodies; there might be cases when such a  refund would be desirable,
(53) Mrs, HEFFELFINGER (United States of America)  proposed that the sentence in question be amended to  read "Any part unused at the end of the financial  period may be used by the organization during the  following financial period".
(54) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) would accept that  proposal if the words "in accordance with the terms  of these Directives" could be added thereto.
(55) Mrs, HEFFELFINGER (United States of America)  agreed to that amendment,
(56) The proposal of the delegate of the United States  of America, as amended by the delegate of the United  Kingdom, was then put to the vote and adopted by 38  votes to 0, with ! abstention,
(57) Mr. BERKELEY (Office of the Director-General)  then drew ‘attention to ‘number of amendments’ in  Part C of Section III, all of which wèré designed to  give a closer definition of the purposes for which  subyentions might be granted (pages 9 to 11 ‘of document
8C/ADM/ 19).
(58) After Mr, dé HOOG (Nétheriands), hile asked tor  * some explanation of paragraph (2) of Part! C, Mr,  VERONESE (Italy) (Representative of the ifxecutive  Board) explained that it had been found’ ditticulf to  adhere to the criterion regarding the independent  resources at the disposal ¢ of an organization when  assessing its’ activities, Lack of resources might not  be due to thé organization, but to outside’ ‘circumstances  or might be attributable to its very structure, That  applied to éertain associations of artists. As it would  be unjust to refuse à sibvention in such circumstances,  it had been thought preferable to propose the deletion  of the rule concerned,
(59) Mr. de HOOG (Netherlands) understood that the  amendment referred mainly to the word "fixe" in the  French text, but did riot. dé away with an organization's  obligation to pay certain expenses itself, -
(60) Mr, VERONESE (Italy)(Representative of the Exec-   utive Board) confirmed what the last speaker had said.
612  "ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION
(61) Mr. von TRUTZSCHLER. (Federal Republic of:  Germany) sought permission to return to Part B'of  Section IL, and proposed that the stipulation regard;  ing the significant contribution of international none :  governmental organizations to the achievement of  -.  Unesco's ohjectives that had been added to item 1 (b)  of Part IL A, be also added to item 1 (b) of Part HI -  B, his aim being to ensure uniformity of terminology  throughout the document.
(62) There being no objection, that proposal was  adopted, .
(63) Referring to the three categories of or ganizations  listed under the heading "II. -Administrative Expenses”,  on page 11 of the English text, Mr, ARTHUR (United  Kingdom) said that, although his delegation entirely  agreed that the granting of subyentions to cover  administrative, expenses required yery careful con-  sideration; it feared that certain very: worthwhile  organizations, not established by a resolution of the  General Conference but which required some financial  assistance to cover their administrative expenses in  the early. stages of their existence, would not be  eligible for Unesco subventions, He referred, mn  perticular, to organizations, of the | same type as the  - World Confederation of Organizations of the Teaching  Profession, which his délegation « considered to be the  type of organization most suited to co-operate with  Unesco and further the aims of the Organization in  the field ‘of education, and which, therefore, deserved  assistance in the carly stages of its existence, That  body had established itself and had immediately  obtained a Unesco subvention to help cover its initial  administrative expenses, but he feared that the text  proposed would exclude such self -established organiza:  tions from receiving that kind of assistance in the  future.
(64) Mr, BERKELEY (Office of the Director-General)  appreciated the point that it ee be difficult to  classify an organization of t type under one of the  three headings listed in the document. Such bodies  had been granted subventions to, help cover their  initial administrative ‘ expenses in the past, but the  current policy of the ‘Organization was to give 4  financial assistance with administrative costs only ’  to bodies ‘established under Unesco's auspices. -
(65) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdoin) telt that (hit  explanation made it clear that organizations ¢ of the  type of the Wor fd Confederation of Organizations of.  the Téachitig Profession would no jonger be eligible .  to receive Unesco subventions, An connexion with  initial administrative expenses; he thought, thére-  fore, that thé ‘Administrative Commission should take  a decision, âs à matter of principle, ‘as to whethér or  not Unésco subyentions to help’ cover ‘administrative’  costs, should be limited to’ organizations established  under ‘Unesco's auspices, ’ He would reéommend that’  the piactice | be exténded to cover self -establishéd ”  bodies‘ whose activities wère such as to enable thein  to nike a valliable contribution’ to Uriesico's dims but  which had insufficient resources tô become estgblished  ; without help. He was thinking strictly in térms of '  initial assistance and would not propose thst such ;  exieptions to the general rule be made for more thän   . that an organization i that did not come within the .  . Spain and the Federal Republic of Germany.  Subvention.
(87) Mr, MALYSHEV. (Eyelorussian Soviet Socialist  . Republic) pointed out that any decision to grant  United Statcs delegate that the matter be left to a  , Executive Board.  (ny Mr, BAUGNIET. (Beiglür) (Rapporteur) thought  that it would be better to keep to the  document ec/ADM/1 19, and to leave it to the Director-  “of the subvention that could be devoted to adnifnistra-  most likely 1 that organizations defined in en  {1) as being established under Unesco's ausplc  graph (3), of organizations’ carrying out an activity  which would otherwise Have té bé assumed by Unesco,  He could not, therefore, support thé proposal ‘ét the  United States’ delegate that the subventions granted  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  the two or three years necessary for the pew organiz-  ation to become well established and financially -  independent.
66) Mrs; HEFFELFINGER (United States of America)  expressed the view of her delegation that organizations  of the type referied to by the delegate of the United  Kingdom could be covered by a liberal interpretation  of the text of paragraph (3): "organizations carrying  out an activity which would otherwise have to be  assumed by Unesco". ‘  subventions for administrative expenses to individual  international non-governmental organizations in the  process of being set up would be contrary to the  provisions of paragraph (a) of sub-section B, which  stated that organizations should, in order to qualify  for subventions, "be of recognized standing‘. .
(68) Mr, ARTHUR (United Kingdom) sald that, An the  light of the discussion, and as his delegation both  recognized the danger of creating : precedents and was  in favour of restricting the practice of making  financial contributions towards the administrative  expenses of non-governmental organizations as much  as possible, he would accept the suggestion of the  liberal interpretation of paragraph (3) by the
69) : Mrs. HEFFELFINGER (United States of America)  proposed that thé words “,, ... in their formative  stage," be added. to pafagraph (1), as it would seem  definition given in paragraphs (2) and (3) should be  granted a subvention towards administrative costs  in its formative stage only.
(10) That proposal was seconded by the delegates of  text proposed i in  Général and the Executive Board to fix the proportion  tive expenges, in each case, If the’ text were ‘amended,  there was à danger that thére might be à contradiction  between the new paragraph and the preceding  provisions governing the conditions in which an,  organization might be approved for the grant of a
(12) Mr, ARTHUR flied. Kingdom) sia It was      also be included within fhe_¢atggory, listed iii para-  to organizations’ inthe first category should be,  gradually tapered off. If those organizations had been  established under Unesco's ‘auspices to carry out work  that would otherwise have to be assumed by the
613  V-16  Ç pedir ae delegation felt their existence  hould continue as long as they were fulfilling that  rôle. A tapering off of the subvention towards  administrative expenses might mean that the  organization would no longer be able to function, and  the work in question would devolve upon the  Secretariat,
(73) In the light of that statement,’ Mrs, HEFFEL-  FINGER (United States of America) felt that the  entire subject would be covered by the definition given  in paragraph (3),, She therefore proposed that para-  graphs (1) and (2) be deleted.  {74) That proposal was seconded by the delegates of  Spain and New Zealand.
(75) Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium) (Rapporteur) pointed  out that the United States delegate's proposal was  liable to restrict considerably the number of  organizations which would be eligible to receive  Unesco's assistance in the initial period. In his :  opinion, the text proposed by the Director-General  and the Executive Board was based on experience,  and it was better not to limit too strictly the number  of cases in which special circumstances could be  taken into consideration,
(76) Mrs, AMARAL SAUER (Brazil) agreed,
(17) The CHAIRMAN put the proposal of the United  States delegate to the vote,
(78) Raising a point of. order, ‘Mr. ARTHUR (United  Kingdom) expressed 1 his reluctance’ to vote on the  proposal of the delegate of the United States of ‘America  at such short notice, The matter in question had been  considered at length by the Executive Board, and he  felt that some time was required to study the impli-  cations and repercussions of the United States  proposal. He would want to know, for. instance;  whether adoption of the proposal would exclude any of  the international non- governmental organizations at  present eligible for Unesco subventions, He there-  tore proposed postponement of the vote.  ( 79) Mrs. HEFFELFINGER (United States of America)  agreed that a decision on her propésal should be  adjourned until delegates were in possession of the  information referred to by the delegate of the United  Kingdom.
(80) The CHAIRMAN asked whethér the members of  the Commission would prefer to postpone their  decision till a later meeting, as had been proposed.
(81) Mr, DEBEAUVAIS (France) felt that the  Commission had not sufficient information about the  possible consequences to take an immediate decision,
(82) It was decided that the Commission would continue  its study of the question at its next meeting.  The meeting rosé at 1,05 p.m,