9 November 1956, at 10. 30 a, m.  Chairman: Mr, DAVIES (Australia)  ran in or THE: AANDA: CONWDERATION OF THE REPORTS OF  THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL AND OF THE AUDITOR ON THE ACCOUNTS  OF THE ORGANIZATION OR THE FINANCIAL. YEARS 1954 AND 1995,  AND OF THE COMMENTS OF TR  EXECU IVE BOARD THEREON  (documents 9C/ ADM/1, oc/ADK/2 und Addendum 1)
(1) Mr, SHARIF (Pakistan) (Representative of the  Executive Board) stated that the réports had been con-  sidered by the Executive Board and recommended to  the General Conference’ for approval,
(2) Mr. HARPER- SMITH (Comptroller) introduced  the documents, outlining the main points.
(3) Mr. MUNRO (Auatralia) asked the Comiptréller if  any measures had been taken to avoid the recurrence  of surpluses.
(4) Mr. HARPER- SMITH (Comptroller) explained  that there were three reasons. for the ‘accumulation of  surpluses,: which'strétched back to 1947 and at the  ‘moment totalled $1,600,000, Firstly, due to some  extent to the arrangements made bj the General Con-  ference ai its eighth session for thé payment of the  arrears of Crechoslovakia, Hungary aud Poland, sur-  pluses arose from the colleétion of arrears. Secondly,  there were surpluses due to programme timing at the  end of a financial period. Thirdly, surpluses were -  caused by.overestimation of obligations; under the  Financial Regulations, obligations could bé liquidated:  one year after the close of a financial period, but it was  impossible to know in advance the exact coat of items  such as heating,’ postage, etc. and thay were sometimes  overestimated. In conclusion, the’ ‘Comptroller empha-  sized thai thé large surplus. figure was exceptional,  because of the collection of arrears,
(5) Mr. MUNRO (Australia) gathered | from what the  Comptroller had said that surpluses were inevitable.  }  {6) Mr. SUNDARAM (India) asked if it would be pos-  sible to supply the Commission with up-to-date infor-  mation ‘on the compensation of dismissed personnel.
(7) Mi. ADISESHIAH (Aubisiait Dircétér- General)  referred the délegéte of India'to piragraphs 4-70f  docuinent’ 9c/ADM/2, ‘where thé information reques-  ted was gimn. ‘Fürther information would bé furnished  when the Commission ; discussed personnel quéstions.  Ths balance due to the people concerned was being  paid, as a result of the Director:General's consulta-  ‘on with the Executive Board.
(8) The reports in documents 9C/ADM/1 and
9C/ADM/2 were approved.
556     EXPANDED PHOGRAÎGIE OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE — FINANCIAL  STATEMENT AS AT 31 DECEMBER 1033 AND REPORT OF TUE  EXTERNAL AUDITOR (document 9C/ADM/22) - RECOMMENDATION EY  THE EXECUTIVE BOARD {document 9C/ ADM/22 Addenduin 1)  {9) Following ‘Introductory statements by Mr.  ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General) and Mr. -  HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller), the Commission  approved document 9C/ADM/32 and recommended that  the General Conference authorize the Director-General  to transmit it to the Secretary-Generai of the United  Nations.  ITEM 12.4 OF THE AGENDA : ADMINISTRATION OF THE WORKING ’  CAPITAL FUND (document 9C/ADM/8 and Addendum 1)
(10) Mr, SHARIF (Pakistan) (Representative of the  Executive Board) drew the Commission's attention to  the resolution adopted by the Executive Board at its
44th session and set forth on page 1 of document
(11) Mr. ‘ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director- -General) -  called the Commission's attention to part of the stale:  ment made by the Director- General in the plenary, Con.  ference ln introducing his reports on the activities of  the Organization in 1955-1956 and his proposals for
1957-1958. That part of his statement had related to -  personnel policy, salaries. and allowances, a subject  to be discussed under item 13.3 of thé agenda, -At that  time, thé’ Comission’ would hive before it a report |  of the ‘Director-General On thé recommendations of the  United Nations Salafy Review Committee and the ~ '-  Director -Gehéral's' ow’ recomniéndations, : prépared ‘  after consultation with the othér Specialized Agencies,  regarding action to be takén by the General Conferencé  at its current session and by thé Exécutivé Board in
1957. If his recomimendatiôits were accepted by the -  Conference,’ théy Would involye an’ additional amotint of  $565, 000 for the two-year period 1057/1958. The  Director-General had said that he would like the  Administrative Commission to consider the matter in  the light of the fact that he would be prepared to ab-  sorb half of that increase by means of savings in the
1957-1958 budget and would draw the other half from  the Working Capital Fund, At its tenth session, the  General Conference would be asked to approve supple-  mentary appropriations to veimburge the Working  Capital Fund, ; ‘
(12) Mr. MUNRO (Australia) had two questions to ask  the Sécretariat: (1) To what extent had the Working  Capital Fund been drawn on during the last financial   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  period? (2) Wnat was the maximum amount so far  drawn from that Fund during any one financial period?  He wondered whether the Comptroller considered it  necessary to maintain the Fund at the $3,000,000  level. .
(13) Mr, HARPER- SMITH (Compiroiler) replied that  the accumulation of surpluses had relieved the Work-  ing Capital Fund. . Normally, the Organization had  ane to ong and à quatter million dollars’. worth of |  unliquidated obligations, so that it had not. been neces-  sary, during the last financial period, to call on the  Working Capital Fund for budgetary expenditures. The  only call on it béen for the $48,000 for local  salaries; in addition, compensation payments would  be charged to it, pending’ the end of the current finan-  cial period; when the Secretariat would see if such  payments could not be reimbursed by means of trans-  fers witha the budget. . .  past, the maximum amount drawn trom the  Working ‘capital Fund in one financial period had been  about $500,000, but the ‘budget had since {increased and  it was à litt)e difficult to see how. far it Would be neces-  sary to call on the Working Capital Fund when sur-  pluses had been returned to Member States, It might  be necessary to draw $150,000 from the Fund for jelf-  liquidating expenses, Further, $500,000 might be .  drawn for the Headquarters Building and $565, 000 for  salary adjustments, : That would leave approximately  $l, 700, 000 tor budgetary expenses, pending receipt  of contributions, ‘The Comptroller thought that was  a reasonable provision, which should carry the  Organization’ through. 1957-1958.
(14) Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium) asked for sume expla-  nation of the steps taken by the Director-General to  repay the money for compensation payments to the  Working Capital Find.”  Furthermore, hé ‘thought thal, de the’ General Con-  ference Foved an Increase in the scale. of certain  salaries, it would Hot be in keeping with nor inal pro-  cedure to draw upon the Working. Capital’ Fund tor the’  sms required 1) sel that additional expenditure.  Such a mes a 6ild be understandable if the in-  creasé were decided i upon and ‘eftectid ‘bétween two  sessions of thé "Conference. But 1h‘ the case in point  tt would result from a decisiod faked by. the Conference,  and allowance for the necéssary funds should there-  fore be made in the proposed budgét.  Mr, Baugniet added that the Conference was to be  asked to adopt the resolution set forth in document
9C/ADM/5, paragraph 10; in his opinion it would be  advisable to incorporate in that resolution certain  provisions based on paragraph 4 ot document
(15) On the first point réised by the delegate ot.  Belgium, the CHAIR Anderatodd that the reim-  burgement of the Working Capital Fund could only be  éffected on 31 Decembér 1956, when the Directér-  Génerdl would know what sums weré available to him’  for that purpose, On the second point; thé Chairman  requested the delegate of Belgium to réseve any dis-  cussion on the use of the Working Capital Fund to  implement intreases in staff salaries until such time  as the Commission considered the whole question of  personnel policy, salaries and allowances.
(16) Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director:General)  pointed out to the delegate of Belgium that the decision  of the United Nations Salary Review Committee would  not be known when the ninth session of the General :  Conference came to an end, so that it would be impos-  sible for the latter to do more than take a decision on  the principle, leaving the Dircctor-General and Execu-  tive Board to work out the details.  (in) Referring to the last remark of the. delegate ot  Belgium concerning the incorporation of paragraph .  of document 9C/ADM/5 Addendum { in the resolution  on page 2 of document 9C/ADM/5, the CHAIRMAN  thought the suggestion unnecessary, as the Direcior-  General had already undertaken to make the payments,
(18) Mr, FAIREY (Canada) thought that the information  given by the Secretariat pointed to the conclusion that  the Working.Capital Fund contained considerably more  money than wes required; As needs in the next two  yeare would depend largely on the decisions taken on  salaries and the Headquarters Building, he proposed  that the Commission defer a decision on the maintenance  of an extra $1,000, 000 in the Fund for 1957-1958 until  the question of salaries and that of the Headquarters  Building had been settled.
(19) The proposal of the delegate of Canada was  adopted,  ITEM 12.2.1 OF THE AGENDA ; RIGHT TO VOTE OF CHINA  (documents 9C/ADM/4 and 9C/12 Addendum)
(20) The CHAIRMAN called upon the delegate of China  to say a few words.  {21) Mr. Li (China) wished to thank thé Chairman for  giving him the oppor binity to present the case of China's  right to vote. of te A  His country was one founder ember Ô  Unesco and its anniial céstribution hid on Tetnay | cen  set at some 6 per Cent of the {otal kolo le. à  over $300,000, As a good and loyal Member, ae  Government had paid the quota regularly vntil certain |  events beyond ite évaitFol had prevented it temporarily  from making full ‘payment; As A résuit, ‘China's =.  arrears had ‘éxceeded the aimoun lé for two ‘years,  a situation which nor j woul Lori that's Member |  State would be déprived‘éf the right to vole, under =  Article IV, paragraph 8 (b), of the Constitution of  Unesco. His Government, how ever, had made annual  token contributions of $14 $600 dig had invoked Article  IV, paragraph 8 (¢), of thé Coñatitution tri support ‘of  its reqiiest to vote, On the strength of that provision,  the General Conferéncé, at ita sixth, seventh, and  eighth séésions, had decided to’ allow thé Chinewe  delegation to’ vote ‘at all ifs’ méetings, '  Mr. Li regrotted that the conditions recognized on ”  earller decasiofis hy thé Confereiice still persistéd and  his Government could not pay the full quota of its ton:  tribution, But in a supéérie f  6fTokt to demonatrate’ its  sincere desire to medt, as far as resdirces pecinitted;  its financial obligations; ‘his Govérnrment” Had decided '  to increase its token corti ibirtion to Unesco tit the ©  current yéar to 850,000, of which $14,000 (£8, 000)"  had been remitted in Age: 1056, ‘That was $36; 600          v-6  more than its annual token coñtributions for the last  few years and was another proof of his Government's  devotion and loyalty to the Organization, despite diffi-  cult ciroumistancès, In consideration of that new -  manifestation of his Governrnent's determination and  goodwill, and by virtue of Article IV, paragraph 8(c),  of the Constitution, he requested the Commission to  recommend that the General Conference follow the  same procedure as at previous sessions and allow his  delegation to vote. ~  Before concluding his remarks, Mr; Li wished to  stress two points: firstly, his delegation was not  asking for any reduction in its contribution, As soon  as normal éonditions were restored, his Government  would pay its full contributions as it did before.  Secondly, his delegation was not asking the General  Conference to permit it to vote at future sessions, but  only at the current session of the General Conference,  ite right to vote at the tenth session would be reviewed  again at that time.  The right to vote was an essential right of any dele-  gation, To deny his delegation that right would be  tantamount to excluding the Chinese delegation from  the Confererice, and a General Conference of Unesco  without the participation of China would be ünthinkable.
(22) Mr. RTXINDER (Netherlands) proposed postpone-  ment of the vote oh China's request until members of  the Commission had had time to consult with their  countries! diplomatic representatives in Delhi. He  asked if the item could be deferred until the afternoon  or the next morning.
(23) Mr. Bender's proposal was seconded by Mr.  NIELSEN (Denmark) and adopted.
(24) The CHAIRMAN stated that the question would be  taken up again the following morning.  ITEM 12.5 OF THE AGENDA: REPORT BY THE  DIRECTOR.GENERAL ON AMENDMENTS TO THE  FINANCIAL REGULATIONS (document 9C/ ADM/6)
(25) Mr, SHARIF (Pakistan) (Representative of the  Executive Board) stated that the Board had not had an  opportunity to discuss the document. However, no  specific action by the Board was required, except to  transmit the document to the Administrative Commis-  sion.
(26) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) said that his  delegation agreed with the Direétor-Geñeral on the  subject of amer ments to the Financial Regulations,  but would like to ameñd the proposed special provisions  in paragraph i1 of document 9C/ADM/6, in order to  make suspension possible only by a two-thirds ‘majority.  It had been suggested that a two-thirds ‘majority was  compulsory only in cases actuaily mentioned in the |  Constitution, but the ‘United Kingdom delegation was  not at all sure that that was true, since Rule 81 of the  Rules of Procedure, ‘wub-paragraphs (e),. (1). (@) and  (h) referred to four cases in which a two-thirds  majority was required, but which were not menticued  in the Constitution. An amendment to the Rules of  Procedure could be carried by a simple majority, and  the United Kingdom delegation therefore moved the
558  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  addition of à new sub-paragraph (i) to Rule 81, which  would read: -""Suapension of the Financial Regulations",  The Financial Regulations would thus be in the same  case as the Rules of Procedure of the General Con-  ference, that was to say, an amendment could be  adopted by a simple majority, but suspension would  require a two-thirds majority,  The first sentence of the Special Provisions on page
3 of docuinént 9C/ADM/ 6 should also be amended by  adding the following words: "taken by a two-thirds  majority of the members present and voting". That -  would follow as a corollary to the amendment. to Rule
81 of the Rules of Procedure.  Lastly, as there might be some doubt on the legal  point involved, Mr. Arthur proposed that the Commis-  sion take a vote on the principle of his motion, añd  subsequently refer the matter to the Legal Committee  for confirmation.
(27) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) seconded the  United Kingdom delegation's motion, which had origi:  nated in a propogal made by the’ delegation of Spain.  He considéred the Financial Regulaiions to bé of greit  fmportarice as a safeguard for Member States, and  thought that the procedure for their suspension should  be explicitly spécified. The apprijpriate method would,  he felt, be by a two-thirds majority of members present  and voting, in accordance with Rule 81 of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference. There were rio legal  impediments to approval of the United Kingdom proposal.
(28) Also seconding th riled Kingdom, motion, Miss  LAISE (United States of America) proposed that the‘  Legal Committee be asked to consider at the same time  the wider issue of the discrepancies bétween the Con-  stitution and the Rules of Procédure of the General  Conference on the subjeét of votes by a two-thirds  majority, She thought that | Unesco might follow the :  example of the United Nations Charter, which defined  certain questions requiring a two-thirds majority, but  left it to the General Asseimbly to add any other matters  which, in its view, should be décided by a two-thirds  majority. Personally, ‘she would prefer a two-thirds  majority on all important budgetary questions, as such  a procedure tended to consolidate the organization  behind thé programmie. .
(28) The United Kingdom motion, as amended by the  delegate of the United States of America, was unani-  mously adopted.  ITEM 12.2 OF THE AGENDA : SCALE AND CURRENCY  OF CONTRIBUTIONS OF MEMBER STATES (continued)  (document 9C/ADM/3 Rev.)  II. Currency of contributions for 1957-1958 (page 4)
(30) The draft resolution on page 5 of document
9C/ADM/3 Rev. was approved for recommendation to  the General Conference.  ITEM 13.3 OF THE AGENDA : MEDICAL BENEFITS SCHEME  (document 9C/ADM/9 and Corrigendum)
(31) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) drew attention   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  to the main points in the documents before the Com-  mission.
(32) Miss LAISE (United States of America) stated  that her delegation had doubts as to the wisdom of  making two charges against the Medicel Benofits Fund  simultaneously, i.e, the reduction of staff members'  contributions and the charging of administrative ex-  penses to the Fund, As the Fund was still maturing  and it was impossible to predict obligations, her  delegation would prefer administrative expenses not  to be taken out of the Fund for the time being. If,  however, the Director-General felt that he could not  avoid charging administrative expenses to the Fund,  Miss Laise would like a proviso to be added to the  effect that administrative expenses would not be taken  out of the Fund until the accounts for each year had  been drawn up, and only then if the six months’ reserve  remained and the Director-General was satisfied that  it was adequate.
(33) Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that Chapters 2 and 3 of Part III of the  budget (Bureau of the Comptroller and Bureau of Per-  sonnel and Management) included nô provision for the  two staff members involved in the administration of  the Fund, After careful study of the question, the  Secretaristis view was that there would be no risk in  adopting the proposals contained in the documents  before the Commission, If they were not approved,  the staff tables in Chapters 2 and 3 of Part III of the  budget would have to be revised.
(34) Miss LAISE (United States of America) sugges-  ted that the problem cGuid be solved by inserting the  posts in the budget and arranging for the Organization  to be reimbursed, if possible, by the Fund.
(35) In reply to a question from Mr. ATTAGARA  (Thailand), Mr: HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) con-  firmed that staff in the field were not included in the  Medical Benefits Scheme, They were, however,  covered by a special insurance policy against sickness,  which the Organization took out for them.
(36) Mr. FAIREY (Canada) shared the doubts of the  United States delegate and therefore proposed the  alternative solution of postponing the reduction of staff  members‘ contributions for two years.
(37) Mr. FUENTES (Chile) ugreed that the period of  benefit should be increased from three to six months,  provided each individual cage were considered on its  own nerits.
(38) Mr, HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) thought that  there was some misunderstanding. The Fund covered  staff for à maximum period of eleven months on half  pay. Three months was the amount of reserve neces-  sary in order to liquidate the Fund, if it proved neces-  sary or desirable, If iliness continued after a year,  the staff member concerned would probably be eligible  for a disability benefit from the United Nations Joint  Staff Pension Fund. ,  In reply to the delegate of Canada, the Coraptrollez  rointed out that the increase in staff members' contri-  butions had been voluntary and that it would be unjust
569  v-6  to them to maintain their contributions at that level  in order to cover administrative expenses.
(39) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) noted, on reading the  first paragraph of document 9C/ADM/9, that the  Medical Benefits Fund was not reserved solely for  Unesco staff, but that officials of several other inter-  natfonal institutions were also affiliated to it. He  inquired whether there were many of those outside  members, and what share of Unesco's expenses in  the mattér was borne by the organizations to which  they belonged.
(40) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) could not  quote the exact figures offhand, but informed the dele-  gate of Belgium that there were between 75 and 100  contributors from other organizaticns, plus their  dependents. They contributed to administrative costs,
(41) Mr. MUNRO (Australia) pointed out that the  Commission had already approved the level of the  staff in Chapters 2 and 3 of Part II of the budget; in  his opinion, it would be wrong to go back on that  decision, He therefore proposed the following amend-  ment to the amended text of Article X of the Regula-  tions of the Fund, proposed by the Director-General  on pagé 2 of document 9C/ADM/9 Corrigendum: the  words "necessary for the efficient operation of the  Fund" would be deleted and replaced by: "possible  without prejudicing the stability of the Fund and the  adequacy of the reserve".
(42) The CHAIRMAN observed that the Australian  amendment would involve an addition to the budget to  provide appropriations which the Director-General  could use if sufficient money were not available in the  Fund itself,
(43) Miss LAISE (United States of America) reiterated  her earlier proposal that the two staff members con-  cerned be included in the budget, the Fund reimbur-  sing the Organization if it proved possible to do so  without jeopardizing its efficient operation. Reimburse-  ments from the Fund could be entered under "miscel-  laneous income",
(44) Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  drew a parallel with the staff engaged on the produc-  tion of the "’Courier'' and on the Unesco Coupon  Schemes, who were paid out of the proceeds from  those two activities.
(45) Miss LAISE (United States of America) pointed  out that they still remained staff members of Unesco  and should be counted in assessing the maximum  staff level. Sho proposea that the discussion on Chap-  ters 2 and 3 of Part III of the budget be reopened, in  order that her earliér motion might be taken into  account.
(46) The United States proposal to reopen the de-  bate où Chapters 2 and 3 of Part III of the budget was  seconded by Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) and  adopted. .  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.