9 November 1956, at 10,30 a,m.  Chairman: Mr, ZEISSL (Austria)
(1) The CHAIRMAN declared the meeting open and,  there being no quorum, announced that, in accordance  with the provisions of Rule 69 of the Rulas of  Procedure of the General Conference, the meetiry  would adjourn for ten minutes,  (The meeting adjourned for ten minutes. )
(2) There being still no quorum after that statutory  adjowznment, the CHAIRMAN asked if all members  present would agree temporarily to waive paragraph
2 of Rule 60, as provided in paragraph 3 of that Rule.
(3) It was 80 agreed.  ITEM 9.0.3 OF THE AGENDA: REFORT ON THE STRUCTURE  AND METHODS OF WORK OF THE NATIONAL COMMISSIONS  (document 9C/PRL/ 21)
(4) The CHAIRMAN introduced the report on the  structure and methods of work of National Commis-  sions (document 9C/PRG/21), calling particular  attention to the resolution of the Executive Board  (page 2, paragraph 5) which recommended that the  report be referred to the Committee on Reports of  Member Stites for its consideration,  He suggested that the Committee might wish to  proceed to a discussion of the report section by  section,
(5) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that he  would have preferred to comment on the conclusions  of the report as a whole and to refer in the course of  his comments to any particular section, where  appropriate.
(6) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) was  entirely in favour of the procedure suggested by the  delegate of the United States of America. He was  impressed by document 9C/PRG/21 and congratulated  the Secretariat on its drafting, The Committee had  to decide what sort of report it was going to submit  on that document. In Mr, Brunsvick's opinion, the  report should deal with the methods to be used to  improve the machinery of National Commissions, It  would be as well to start the general discussion  immediately in order to decide what recommendations  the Committee wished to make. Points of detail could  be dealt with afterwards.
(7) The CHAIRMAN was in agreement with the pro-  posal, made by the delegates of the United States of  America and of France, to discuss the report as a  whole. He accordingly invited the Committee to make  its general comments on it.
(8) Mr. LEE (United States of America) agreed with
135     the French delegate that, within ite térms of reference,  the report was much to be commanded, He would  originally have been inclined to press for a joint  consideration of the report and of the first section,  relating to assistance to National Commissions, of  Chapter 7, General Resolutions, contained in the  Proposed Programme and Budget for 1057-1958  (document 9C/5), but he had come to realize that, in  view of the pressure of time and of the limited attend-  ance at the Committee, it would be unlikely that the  Committee could reach any useful conclusions to  preeent to the Programme Commission. He would  therefore confine hia remarks to the Director -  General's report, ;  It would, in his view, be desirable for the Commit-  tee, in reporting to the Programme Commission on  the matter, to include a reference to certain points  which he proposed to enumerate. Firstly, the  Director-General should be commended on the report  he had prepared, Secondly, the conclusions of that  report should be commended to the Programme  Commission for its consideration in connexion with  its study of the general resolutions to which he had  just referred, He believed that those conclusions  were a correct reflection of the questionnaires  returned to the Director-General and that the  Director-General had received a reasonable amount  of information which, without being perfect, was  sufficient to allow certain generalizations to be made.  Thirdly, the Committee might wish to state that it was  its mssumption, in the absence of any specific recom-  mendations by the Director-General in the report  itself, that the proposals in the general resolutions  constituted the Director-General! s'reflection of the  information analysed in the report; it would then be  open to the Programme Commission to examine that  assumption.  Fourthly, the Committee might, as a result of its  consideration of the reports of Member States and of  the report on the National Commissions, feel  competent to submit to the Programme Commission  certain observations which it judged to be valid in the  light of the information listed in the latter report.  For instance, it could be stated that, aithough the  participation of Member States in the work of Unesco  was increasing, it was still unsatisfactory; that the  National Commissions appeared to constitute the.  most promising, though by no means the only, means  of furthering the activities of the Organisation; that  the organization and resources of mich Commissions  were in some cases inadequate; and that, while the  strengthening of the National Commissions was  clearly the responsibility primarily of Member  States themselves, the Organization could on occasion  facilitate it. He would list among possible activities  to that end: exchange visits of the executive  secretaries of National Commissions to Unesco   x-8  Headquarters and of Unesco officials to the Commis-  sions; visits by Unesco officials to Member States;  fully prepared public relations work; and the  adaptation and translation of Unesco documents.  His delegation would emphasize that the missions  of Secretariat officials to Member States could be  made even more effective if there were a greater  measure of advance planning, if visits were of longer  duration, and if they were systematically followed up.  It would be most desirable if, within the following  programme period, the Director-General could direct  special efforts towards the strengthening of National  Commissions and could report to the Executive Board  on the manner in which Commissions had been  organized and how éffective they had proved, Some  Member States which were not entirely satisfied with  their National Commissions might invite assistance  in planning from the Secretariat and, in such cases,  the report might be prepared jointly by the Member  State concerned and the Secretariat.  It was most important for stress to be laid on the  desirability of a greater exchange of information  between the National Commissions themselves,  Unesco worked in that direction hy such megns as  regional meetings, hut the Member States themselves  should increase their efforts to that end, He pointed  to the danger of excessive political regionalism; it  was essential that every endeavour whould be made to  maintain a technical and universal spirit.  The Committee would, of course, have to avoid in  its report any impression of prejudging the action  that the Programme Commission would take in  respect of the general resolutions,
(8) Mrs, PARONETTO-VALIER (Italy), attending as  an observer, had been much interested in section C  (Conclusions) of document 9C/PRG/21, and particu-  larly in paragraph 2, The document was remarkably  unbiased, but the factual description of National  Commissions wae simply the first stage of the work.  The next was to carry out a study of the widely varying  ideas held in Member States about the functions and  value of the Commissions, In that connexion,  attention should be drawn to the usefulness of regional  meetings of National Commissions, which should be  given all possible encouragement, .  On the question of co-operation between National  Commissions and non-governmentsl organizations  (document 8C/PRG/21, page 7, paragraph 10),  Mrs. Paronetto-Valler mentioned the action taken by  the Italian National Commission, which had invited  the netional branches of international organizations  approved for consultative arrangements with Unesco  to appoint representatives to serve on the Commission.  Such representatives were the Commission's best  liaison officers with the general public as well as  with specialized circles,
(10) Mr. EKANAYAKA (Ceylon) recalled that Ceylon  had been one of the Member States which had replied  to the questionnaire sent by the Director-General,  Since sending in that reply, certain developments had  however occurred in his country, which were relevant  to the question of the National Commissions and  possibly to the position in other Asian countries,  Since the change of government in Ceylon the  previcua April, there had been a revision of policy
736  COMMITTEE ON REPORTA OF MEMBER STATES  regarding the official langusge of the country, which  had been English, It was felt, quite rightly, that the  language spoken by 80 per cent of the population  should be considered the official language, The  National Commission had, in the past, functioned  satisfactorily in English but, in the current month, a  new National Commission had been appointed for a  three-year period, some of whose members, while  being very learned men, were not conversant with the  English language, The problem was particularly  complex as far as documentation was concerned; the  Guida for National Commissions, notably, would have  to be transiated. He wondered therefore whether  Unesco w be prepared to give assistance in having  the key documents translated, as the problem was  particularly acute during the transitional period,  Help would be much appreciated, as the National  Commission’would then be in a more favourable  position to carry out its work in bringing about a  greater appreciation of the ideals and purpose of  Unesco.
(11) Miss YIM (Korea) expressed her appreciation of  the discussions which had taken place in the Commit-  tee. She felt it would be most helpful if the National  Commissions could receive more guidance from  Unesco with regard to the exchange of cultural  material.
(12) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) was in  entire agreement with the excellent statement made  by the delegate of the United States of America, In  his opinion, National Commissions were more and  more becoming a driving farce in the Organization;  their development was keeping pace with the pro-  gramme and they were taking an increasing part in  its execution, in addition to their responsibilities in  the matter of liaison, consultation and the provision  of regular information, Experience had shown that  they were useful in several fields: (i) to co-ordinate  the work of various Ministries and administrative  departments responsible for co-operating with  Unesco (foreign affairs, education, broadcasting,  public information, etc,), in which respect the reports  of Momber States and document 9C/PRG/21 showed  that substantial progress had been made; (il) to keep  in touch with the national branches of international  organizations, with intellectual leaders (as the  representative uf Ceylon had mentioned), and with the  general public, in which respect something probably  still remained to be done.  It was also necessary to make a clear distinction  between the National Commissions and their secret-  ariats. Both the reports of Member States and  document 9C/PRG/21 showed that a National Com-  mission was a body holding periodic meetings and  representative in character, while its secretariat was  a permanent organization whose usefulness depended  on its efficiency, the authority it enjoyed, and the  action it was able to undertake.  The number of Unesco's Member States was rising  and there were, at the moment, 70 National Com-  missions requiring advice. The preparation of the  Guide for National Commissions had been a very  useful first step but the work should continue, and  consideration should be given to the publication of a  bulletin for National Commissions in which they would   COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER  find helpful suggestions, an analysis of official  documents sent out by the Secretariat, and comments  thereon. Such a bulletin would also provide opportu-  nity for a useful exchange of information among  National Commissions. ;  If, for budgetary reasons, the publication of sich a  bulletin could not be considered, although it appeared  to be justified by the number of National Commissions,  it might perhaps be possible to convert the Unesco  "Chronicle" into a publication providing information  and liaison services for National Commissions,  Mr, Brunsyick mentioned that paragraph 14 of  document 9C/PRG/21 confirmed his view that  National Commissions should publicize Unasco's  work - à form of activity which might be undertaken  on the authority of any programme resolution that  could be transposed to the national sphere. That type  of publicity was calculated to develop international  understanding, It should not be forgotten that Unesco  was not merely a Secretariat but a group of Member  States and that it had to publicize its activities.  Progress also needed to be made in the matter of  Maison between Unesco officials or experts sent out  on mission and National Commissions. If provision  were made, in planning missions, for Unesco's envoys  to work for a few days with the Commissions, both  would certainly benefit greatly. The usefulness and  good results of regional meetings of National  Commissions should not obsoure the fact that the  Organizhtion was universalistio. Nor should it be  forgotten that such meetings were technical in  character, and that their recommendations, which  were purely advisory, were not binding on governments.  On the question of translations (document
9C/PRG/21, page 10, paragraph 6), as the delegate of  Ceylon had pointed out, there was a serious problem  to be solved with assistance from Unesco but, even  so, it would be necessary to distinguish between the  three stages of translation, printing and distribution,  and to make sure that the work would be carried  through to completion. To increase the efficiency of  bodies co-operating with Unesco was to improve the  working of the Organization itself.
(13) Mr. STEWART (Canada), attending as an  observer, said that his country was one of the few  Members of Unesco which did not have a National  Commission, He wes, however, in a position to  endorse paragraph 4 of the conclusions of the report  (document 9C/PRG/21, page 13) which said that,  from the standpoint of efficiency, the National  Commission was worth what its secretariat was  worth. In Canada, the Department of External Affairs  co-ordinated its activities connected with Unesco with  a number of national organizations in the educational,  cultural and acientific fields. The efficiency of those  bodiés made it possible for Canada to enjoy the most  fruitful co-operation with Unesco.
(14) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) considered that the first stage of the work  undertaken in pursuance of the General Conference's  decisions at its eighth session had been satisfactorily  completed. The next problem was to follow up what  had been done, He did not think that the work so far  carried out by the Secretariat could be said to be  confined to factual statement. Document 9C/PRG/21,
737     STATES x-8  which provided basic information, should beread with  draft resolutions 7,11 and 7.12 put forward by the  Director-General in the programme for 1957-1958,  Nor was the Guide for National Commissions limited  to a factual survey; it also contained wuggestions for  improving the work of the Commissions.  Although the Committee was not required to express  any views on the Director-General's proposed pro-  gramme, as had been pointed out by the delegate of  the United States of America, it would be paradoxical  for it to voice ni opinion on kuch means of helping  Member States {0 improve the operation of their  National Commissions as the provision of assistance  in adapting and translating Unesco documents  {mentioned by the delegate of Ceylon), or the visits by  Secretariat officials to Member States, to which the  delegates of France and the United States of America  had referred, : The Committee should, without going  beyond its terms of reference, set forth its views on  the Director-Ganeral's proposals on the subject in its  report.  It would also be well for the Committee not to  confine itself to commenting on the possibilities for  the provision of aid to National Commissions by the  Organization, but to recommend to Member States  measures for improving the operation of the  Commissions apart from the assistance received from  Unesco. In that connexion, members of the Committee  had already mentioned the question of the composition  of National Commissions and the participation of  national branches of international non-governmental  organizations in their activities; the need for a eec-  retariat adequate to ensure the satisfactory operation  of a National Commission; the public information  work that a Commission should do, regarded not as  advertising for the agenoy but as an integral part of  the execution of the programme; and the exchange of  information between the verious National Commissions -  a very Important question which stili required clari-  fication. If it was to continue to play its part as a  guide, and to advise on all those measures, the Secre-  tariat would need to have behind it definite recom-  mendations submitted by the Committee to the  General Conference.  It would be well for the Committee to formulate a  general statement of principle concerning regional  conferences of National Commissions, and to empha-  size that they were technical in character and had  purely advisory functions. The regional emphasis at  such meetings was an advantage because the problems  were discussed from a far more practical standpoint,  but it should not obscure the universalistic character  of the Organization. It would be necessary to find  some way of ensuring interrelationships between the  regions (by providing, for example, for representatives  of other regions to take part in a conference with an  agenda of regional interest), in order that opposing  regional blocs with some degree of political bias on  technical questions should not come into being,  With regard to the exchange of publications,  Mr. Maheu suggested that, in the case of technical  publications, the clearing houses operating in each of  Unesco's Departments concerned could undertake to  collect and distribute them. In the case of informa-  tive publications dealing with National Commissions  and their activities, it would have to be decided  whether it would be best for National Commissions to   x-0  correspond with one another direct - which bad the  advantage of speed but might be detrimental to co-  ordination - or whether it would be preferable for  them to use the Secretariat's services ss an  intermediary or an adviser,  There were budgetary difficulties about the French  delegate's proposal that a bulletin for National Com-  missions should be instituted, but his suggestion that  the Unesco "Chronicle" be used more as a means of  providing liaison between National Commissions was  very interesting, and the Secretariat would certainly  ent on it if it was recommended by the Committee,
(18) The CHAIRMAN also wished to commend the  Director-General's report, as well as the Guide for  National Commissions,  Spewnking as a delegate of Austria, he would deplore  the fact that publication of the "Chronicle" in German  had been discontinued, There were same 80,000,000  German-speaking people in Central Europe and the  task of the National Commissions in winning them  over to the ideals of Unesco was made much harder  by the fact that so little was being done in the way of  Unesco publications in German,
(16) Mr. LEE (United States of America) associated  himself with the remarks made by the representative  of the Director-General; some of the points he had  made might well be mentioned in the report. For his  part, he would have no objection on legal grounds to  considering the report in conjunction with the general  resolutions, if time permitted.  He would further endorse the view expressed by the  NINTH     COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MENBER BTATES  Director General's representative regarding the  poasibility of giving additional guidance on the  activities of National Commissions. As he had stated  earlier, resporisibility for strengthening the National  Commissions rested primarily with Member States,  but it would bu useful if certain prinoiples could be  laid down for the guidance of Member States in seeking  to strengthen their National Commissions,
(17) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) was glad  of the useful discussion which had jret taken place.  He hoped that the delegates of the United Stated of  America and Italy, together with a representative of  the Secretariat, would join him to form a small  drafting committee to prepare the Committes's report
(16) Mrs. PARONETTO-VALIER (italy) pointed cut  that she was attending the meeting simply as an  observer.
(19) Mr, MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) reminded the members of the Committee that  their draft report should be handed to the Secretariat  by 7 p.m. Mr. Chevalier or himoelf would be happy  to take part in the work of the drafting committee,
(20) The CHAIRMAN announced that the drafting  committee would meet that aftertioon. There would  be no meeting of the plenary Committee that afternoon  as had been announced, by error, in that day's  "Journal",  The meeting rose at 12.15 p.m,  MEETING
10 November 1856, at 4 p,m,  Chairman: Mr. ZEISSL (Austria)
(1) The CHAIRMAN declared the meeting open and,  there being no quorum, announced that, in accordance  with Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference, the meeting would adjourn for ten minutes.  (The meeting adjourned for ten minutes.
(2) There being still no quorum after that statutory  adjournment, the CHAIRMAN asked if all members  present would agree temporarily to waive paragraph
2 of Rule 69, as provided in paragraph 3 of that Rule.
(3) It was 80 agreed.  CONSIDERATION OF THE DRAFT REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON  REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES TO THE PROGRAMME COMMISSION  (document 9C/REP/PROV/3)
(4) The CHAIRMAN e-nounced that the draft report
738  had so far been circulated only in French, Spanish  and Russian, He suggested that the Committee might  wish to proceed with its consideration of the draft  report, on the understanding that the English text  would be circulated in the course of the meeting as  soon as it was available,
(5) There being no objection, it was so agreed,
(6) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the draft repart  before the Committee (document 8¢C/REP/PROV/3)  had been prepared on the basis of the amendments to  the original draft report suggested at the previous  meeting. He invited the Committee to examine the  revised text paragraph by paragraph.
(7) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director -  General) pointed out that further names had to be  added to the list of observers at the end of paragraph 6.