(13) Mr. BERTRAND (France) pointed out that the  text of the first paragraph of Rule 10A provided for  exceptions, as it contained the words "so far as pos-  sible’, The Secretariat would therefore not be  absolutely rigidly bound if the t{ me-limit were pro-  longed.
(14) Mr. VAN PEURSEN (Netherlands) (Rapporteur)  pointed out that, although the revision of Rule 78  legally entailed revision of the second par raph of  Rule 10A, the connexion between Rule 78 and the first  paragraph of Rule 10A was of importance only from  the practical standpoint,
(15) Mr, BERTRAND (France) could not understand  what objection there could be to amending the first  paragraph, since it contained the words "so far as  possible’.
(16) Mr, ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) pointed out that the provision applied not only to  documentation concerning the proposed programme  and budget, but also to all documentation required for  consideration of the various items on the agenda,  There was no point in compelling the Secretariat to  speed up the preparation of all the documents and,  moreover, it was difficult to lay down criteria for  distinguising between documents dealing with the  programme and budget and those dealing with other  questions.
(17) Mr. BERTRAND (France) withdrew his request  for the immediate amendment of paragraph 1.
(18) After a short discussion on the exact length of  the new time-limits, Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics) pointed out that it might be neces-  sary to amend other provisions of the Rules of Procedure.    LEGAL COMMITTEE
(19), Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) proposed that the  Committee's report state: ‘that the time-limit for the  submission of amendments; was linked with othér  provisions of the Rules of Procedure referring to  other time-limits, and that those provisons had been  drawn up on a unified plan; that the time-limit set  for the submission of amendments was directly  related to the date for the communication of the pro-  posed programme and budget, and that it was there-  fore essential to amend the second paragraph of Rule
10A; that the Comrhittee hoped that à general examina-  tion, in which particular attention would be given to -  the time-limits for submitting documentation concern-  ing the proposed programme and budget, would be -  carried out, so as to enable the Conferénca to decide  on the whole problem at its next session; and that the  answer to the Working Party's third question was in  the affirmative, but that the General Conference could,  if it so desired, specify that the amendments would  not come into effect until after the close of the current  session,
(20) The above proposal was accepted.
(21) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) mentioned a few ~  corrections to be made to document 9C/ADM/24:  Paragraph-11: Add at the end of the paragraph: "(he  Committee indicated its preference for that method",  Paragraph 12: To read: "If the Administrative  Commission felt that the Constitution should be emen-  ded, it should recommend that the General Conference  instruct the Director. .'’ (the remainder unchanged).
(22) The above changes were approved.  The meeting rose at 5.15 p.m.  NINTH MEETING
3 December 1956, at 9,30 a.m, ,  Chairman: Mr. MATSUI (Japan)
(1) The CHAIRMAN opened the meeting at 9.30 a.m,  (As there was not a quorum, thé meeting was sus-  pended for ten minutes and resumed at 9.40 a,m. )  PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO PARAGRAPH 2 OF RULE 78 OF THE  RULES OF PROCEDURE (continued) (document 9C/PRG-  ADM/WP.1/PROY/1)
(3) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on à paragraph
12 of document 9C/ PRG-ADM/WP. 1/PROV/1, con  taining the draft report of Joint Working Party No. |
702  of the Programme and Administrative Commissions,
(3) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) (Chairman and  Rapporteur of the Working Party) thought the question  was similar to those "investigated by the Legal Com-  mittee in its fifth report. The terms of the amend-  ment proposed in paragraph 12 of document 9C/PRG-  ADM/WP. 1/PROV/1 raised the same three questions:  (a) whether thé amendment was legally acceptable;  (b) whether its adoption would involve consequential  changes in other Rules of Procedure; (c) whether it  could be adopted by the Conference at the current  session,   LEGAL COMMITTEE  Question (a) ‘could already be answered in the  affirmative. “With regard to (b), à distinction should  be drawn between conséquential amendments which  were essential if conflicting provisions in the Rules  of Procedure were to be avoided, and those which the  Legal Committee could indicate as requiring study  from the point of view of desirability.
(4) The CHAIRMAN asked the Legal Adviser whether  he thought that the proposed amendment would involve  consequential changes in other Rules of Procedure,
(5) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) said that, legally:  spraking, the proposed amendment to paragraph 2 of  Rule 78 should be considered from two points of view.  Jt would be necessary to detérmine, in the first place,  its exact import, i,e. how far it would modify the  current procedure; and, in the second, whether it  should entail amendmeats to other provisions of the  Rules of Procedure.  He outlined the procedure currently in force. The  proposed programme and budget communicated by the  Director-General to Member States included the budget  estimates. Up to ten days before the opening of the  Conference, Member States could submit programme  amendments involving substantial budgetary increases.  At the beginning of the session, the Conference dis-  cussed the budget ceiling, ‘Theré wad no time-limit,  at the moment, for the submission of proposals for  raising the budget ceiling and the rate of contribu-  tlons. Discussion was based on the information in  the possèssion of delegates as to the various pro-  gramme amendments with budgetary implications that  had been submitted in conformity with the existing  provisions of paragraph 2 of Rule 78.  He emphasized that the proposed amendment would  change that situation, even if the amendments to the  Rules of Procedure already adopted by the Legal  Committee were taken into consideration, for pro-  posals to increase the estimates for particular items  and proposals’ concerning the total budget ceiling '  would then Have to be submitted at the same time, i.e.  six weeks before the opening of Conference sessions.  That would make it impossible for governments wish-  ing to propose a new budget ceiling to take into con-  sideration programme amendments implying increased  expenditure for specific budget items proposed by  other governments,  With regard to the other’ ‘amendments to’ the Rules  of Procedure that might be ‘hecessitated by the pro-  posed amendment, Mr. Saba pointed out that the text  referred to ‘proposals for increasés or decreanes in  the total budget ceiling. Paragraph 3 of Rüle 8, -  however , “authorized the submission of prof odals for  budgetary reduction at any time. In addition; as the  Legal Committee had already amended Rule 10A,  paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedurs to ensure that  Member States received the draft programme three  months before the ‘opening of sessions, it would also  be necessary to amend Article 3 of the Financial  Regulations, which provided for a shorter minimum  time-Limit for the communication of the budget esti-  mates to Member States,
(6) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America) thought  that the Legal Committee should accept the Working  Party's suggestion, while recommending that the
703     vi-e  Director-General and the Board further examine the  whole of the Rules of Procedure before the next ses-  sion of the Conference and prepare proposed revised  texts for any changes that should be made in them,  Meanwhile the Committee should approve the new  text of Rule 78 (2), proposed by the dulegates of Den-  mark and France, as well as the amondment té Rule
10A (2) previously proposed by the delegate of France,  At present, Member States were required to submit  draft resolutions ten days before the Conference, and  it would be a good thing if the dates for the submission  of detailed proposais, and of general proposals to  increase or decrease the total budget level, were the  same,
(7) Whilst agreeing, in principle, with the proposal  of the Working Party, Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics) wondered whether the pro-  posed text would make it impossible for the General  Conference to examine proposals for the reduction  of the overall budget sybmitied less than six weeks  prior fo the opening of the session, If that were so,  he did not think it would be expedient to include the  words "or decreases" in the text of paragraph 2 of  Rule 78.
(8) Mr, ARTHUR (United Kingdom) (Chairman and  Rapporteur of the Working Party) stressed that the  main concern of the Working Party had been increases  in the budget level, but some members of the Working  Party had suggested it would be more reasonable to  speak of any changes, whether up or down. Further-  more, the Working Party had decided that Rule 78 (3)  did not require to be altered, It was not absolutely  clear whether amendments to the budget ceiling fell  under Rule 78 (2) and, therefore, the Working Party  was in favour of the proposed addition to it, which it  proposed by way of clarification.
(9) The CHAIRMAN said that the text proposed by the  Working Party would entail amendment of paragraph
3 and indeed of the remainder of paragraph 2 of Rule
(10) ‘Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) worideréd whether,  in the event of the adoption of the Working Party's  proposed amendment, the Conferénce would have, ‘at  the beginning of its session, to fix a maximum budget  ceiling as it did under the existing system and, it s0,  whether it would be ablé to take into account not only  proposals affecting the total budget c2iling but also  programme amendments with budgetary implications.  He thought that the Legal Committee should indicate  clearly how it interpreted the proposed amendment,  in order to avoid any confusion at the next session of  the Conference.
(1i) Mr. ARTHUR ‘(United Kingdorh) - - “speaking not  as Rapporteur of the Working Party, but as ‘delegate  of the United Kingdom - stiéased that, when a Member  State put forward a draft resolution {nvolving an éxpen-  diture of, say, $16,000, it did not necessarily make  a proposal that the budget ceiling should be increased  by an equal amount. The proposal was made within  the framework of the programme, while the celling  was fixed before the programme was adopted and,  therefore, whatever the ceiling was, the Member State   Viii-9  in question hoped that its project would be included  in the programmé by sdjusting the cost of aome other  project. The same was true, of course, of a  decrease in the budget, The Working Party wished to  make a clear distinction between a single draft  resolution - an invitation to the Conference, irrespec-  tive of the ceiling, which a Member State should be  allowed to make - and a proposal to increase (or de-  crease) the total budget figure.
(12) The CHAIRMAN thought that a clear distinction  should be drawn between proposals for budgetary  increases on single {tems of the programme and those  for increases in the total budget ceiling without any  explicit connexion with the proposed programme, He  asked whether the Chairman of the Working Party  thought that a situation such as the following might  arise: the Director-General having proposed a budget  ceiling of $24,000,000, a delegation might submit a  proposal, within the specified time-limit, to raise the  ceiling to $48,000,000, without accompanying its pro-  posal by any specific projects concerning the  programme.
(13) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) (Chairman and  Rapporteur of the Working Party) agreed that such a  situation could arise.
(14) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  agreed with Mr, Arthur, He thought the problem  could be met even after the time-limit had expired.  It was clear enough that the total budget level and  special projects were different things, and there did  not seem to be any legal necessity to alter Rule 78 (3).
(15) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) suggested adding  "The Director-General shall communicate such pro-  posals as soon as possible to the Member Statea' at  the end of paragraph 12 of the draft report under dis-  cuasion. That would be in keeping with a proposal  already adopted by the Committee at à previous meet-
(16) The CHAIRMAN considered that the sentence  could be added, especially as the provision had already  been mentioned in the fifth report of the Legal Com-  mittee. But it would be necessary to alter the word-  ing of the paragraph as a whole so as to avoid a  repetition of the last phrase. He asked the Com-  mittee's opinion on the question of the amendments  to be made to other Rules of Procedure.
(17) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America) was  not in favour of drafting a new form of words, which  might cause confusion.
(18) The CHAIRMAN explained that the question was  whether there was any need to repeat twice - at the  end of each sentence of paragraph 2 of Rule 78 - the  words "the Director-General shall communicate them  as soon as possible to Member States’.
(19) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) thought there  was no need for that repetition; he therefore endorsed  the Chairman's suggestion.
(20) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America)agreed
704     LEGAL COMMITTEE  that the original sentence as it was, with the change  of aix weeks instead of ten days, would have to be re-  drafted; the fifth report would therefore have to be  suitably altered.
(21) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the Committee  would agree to recommend that the Executive Board  and the Director-General make a thorough study of.  the Rules of Procedure and the Financial Regulations
30 as to ensure that their various provisions tallied.
(22) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) pointed out that Article 3.4 of the Financial  Regulations would have to be revised.
(23) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) (Chairman and  Rapporteur of the Working Party) was in favour of  accepting the terms of the Working Party's report;  no other amendments to the Rules of Procedure were  immediately essential but the points made by the Legal  Adviser should be brought to the notice of the Director-  General and the Executive Board, which might want to  amend Financial Regulation 3.
(24) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lice) thought the existing text of Financial Regulation
3.4 was at variance with the amended text of Rule 78,  paragraph 2, and that the time-limit stipulated in the  Financial Regulations should be changed.
(25) The CHAIRMAN said that, at previous meetings  of the Committee, he had already referred to the dis-  crepancies between some of the Rules of Procedure  and the Financial Regulations. In his opinion, a care-  ful and detailed study would be necessary to bring the  two sets of rules into line.
(26) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that the amend-  ment proposed by the Legal Committee to Rule 104,  paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure was designed  to ensure that the budget estimates were sent to Mem-  ber States at least three months before the opening  of the session, In his opinion, as Article 3.4 of the  Financial Regulations stipulated a different time-limit,  it would be well for the two texts to be brought into  line immediately. _.  He also pointed out that the Working ‘Party's pro-  posal would in fact result in abolishing the relationship  existing, under. the procedure in force, between partial  amendments ‘and proposals affecting the budget as a  whole, . It was. therefore fmportant for the Legal Com-  mittee to lày stress on the fact that the fixing of the  same time-limit for the submission of draft amend-  ments with budgetary impliéations and proposals  affecting the total budget ceiling would alter that  relationship.  Moreover, the Committee would have to bear in  mind the apparent contradiction between the draft  amendment fixing a time-limit for the submission of  proposals for budgetary reduction and paragraph 3 of  Rule 78 which stated that proposals for reduction could  be introduced at any time.  In that respect, it would be well to determine the  exact scope of the proposed amendment.
(27) The CHAIRMAN wondered whether the amendment  proposed by the Working Party would allow the   LEGAL COMMITTEE  Conference to adopt a compromise between the  various proposals concerning the budget ceiling sub-  mitted by governments before the specified date, or  whether the Conferénce would be compelled to adopt  one of the figures actually proposed.
(28) Mr. SIMSARIAN (Unitéd States of America) sug-  gested saying in the report that, for instance, if the  Director-General proposed a budget ceiling of  $34,000,000 and a 'delégation'proposed $26,000, G00,  an intermediate figure could always be considered -  according to thé Rules of Procedure, A discrepancy  between thc’Rules and the Financial Regulations (two  months and six weeks) already existed and the Legal  Committee recognized that appropriate corrections  should be made, after tho Director-General and the  Executive Board had considered them, When the  Director-General presented his programme and bud-  get three months before the Conference, the total  budget estimate was included; therefore he agreed  with the Soviet delegate's point of view.
(20) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) (Chairman and  Rapporteur of the Working Party) thought the points  raised by the Légal Adviser and the Soviet delegate  were very interesting but stressed that the Rules  already allowed for some flexibility by saying "at  least" - and not merely so many deys, weeks or  months. Even if thé regulations had all {o be made  consistent, it was rather late to do so. The Director-  General lad promised to be ready by 1 July; that was  well within the permissive clauses of the Rules of  Procedure, and the Working Party had taken it into  account. Thé Legal Committee did not need to con-  cern itaelf with thé possibility that some proposals  would be made at the last possible moment. It was  enough to draw the attention of the Conference and of  the Board to the desirability of further study of the  matter by the Director-General and the Board, without  making any other recommendations that were not  absolutely essential at that time.
(30) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) considered the last  remarks made by the United Kingdom delegate to be  very wise. It would be sufficient for the Legal Com-  mittee to point out, in its feport, that there were con-  tradictions between the proposed amendments and the  rules still in force, to recommend that the Executive  Board examiné the Rules of Procedure as a whole and  report to the General Conference, and to add that the  relevant proposals should be submitted to the Con-  ference early in its next session. |  That last provision would make it possible to find a  solution, at the beginning of the next session, to prob-  lems connected with the interpretation of an amend-  ment whose exact import could not be determined at  the moment for lack of time.
(31) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  pointed out that the General Conference, being a  sovereign body, could adopt whatever rules it wished  and could also decide to lay down a compromise bud-  get if it thought fit. It should be understood that a  larger, smaller or intermediate figure could always  be considered within the higher and lower levels set  six weeks in advance; and to say so in the Committee's  report would make it quite clear.
(32) - The CHAIRMAN had not interpreted the Legal  Adviser's remarks in the same way as Mr. Simsarian,  He emphasized that, while 1 was true that the General  Conference was a sovereign body, it was none the less  incumbent on lawyers to make the wording of the  regulations so clear that there could be no possible  misunderstanding,  He considered that Mr. Simsarian‘s proposal could  be incorporated into the appropriate clause of the  Rules of Procedure by the Executive Board when it  revised the text of the regulations.
(33) Mr, ARTHUR (United Kingdom) (Chairman and  Rapporteur of the Working Party) thought that Rule
78(2) should apply equally to increases and de. ceases  of the ceiling - he doubted, however, whether there  was legal authority in the Rules for the interpretation  made by the United States delegate. If, for instance,  the Director-General asked for $24,000,000 and two  delegations proposed $25,000,000 and $26,000,000,  amendments to both those proposals could be submitted  under Rule 78(3),
(34) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) agreed with Mr.  Arthur, as long as the proposed amendment was to be  incorporated in Rule 78(2).
(35) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  thought the clarification made by the United Kingdom  delegate was a useful one; the Committee's report  should make it clear that amendments under Rule 78(3)  might concern a compromise figure between a higher  and a lower level. :
(36) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  ics) thought that the report of the Legal Committee  should mention all thé possible consequences of the  amendment to paragraph 2 of Rule 78, and all the con-  tradictions which had been pointed out during the dis-  cussion. Whilst recognizing that the Committee could  not make a detailed study of all those difficulties, he  urged that they should be clearly listed in the report.  In conclusion, he wondered whether the text of para-  graph 1 of Rule 10A of the Rules of Procedure should  not be amended immediately.
(37) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America) pointed  out that, in paragraph 7 of its fifth report (document
9C/ADM/27), the Legal Committee had expressed the  opinion that the 25-day rule (in Rule 10A. 1)" should be  reconsidered in relation to programme and budget  documents. The question should be examined care-  fully by the Director-General and by the Executive  Board.
(38) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) (Chairman and  Rapporteur of the Working Party) agreed that the  amendment proposed affected the submission of docu-  ments dealing with the budget estimates, but the  Director-General would still have some leeway to  submit those of his proposals that had no budgetary  implications; there did not seem to be any legal incon-  sistency between the 25 days and the time-limits laid  down in the other Rules.
(39) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) said it wae not clear from paragraph 1 of Rule   vir-9
10A of the Rules of Procedure whether it was only  documents having no budgetary implications which  had to be submitted at least 25 days before the open-  ing of the session,
(40) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) said that the problem  had already been discusscd at the Committee's  previous meeting. He added that it should not be for-  gotten, however, that the total budget figure proposed  by the Director-General, and the detailed budget  estimates, were contained in the proposed programme  and budget sent out by the Director-General three  months before the opening of the session, He sugges-  ted that paragraph 1 of Rule 10A be included in the list  to be examined by the Executive Board. Pending the  general revision of the Rules as a whole, the Director-  General would naturally do everything in his power  to send the basic documents to Member States within  a reasonable time.
(41) The Legal Adviser's proposal was accepted by  Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics).
(42) The CHAIRMAN summed up the discussion,  stating that the paragraphs that would have to be con-  sidered with particular care were paragraph 1 of  Rule 10A of the Rules of Procedure and paragraphs
3.3 and 3.4 of Article 3 of the Financial Regulations.
(43) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) asked whether the  Committee's report should propose the revision of  paragraph 3 of Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure, and  indicate the changed situation that might arise through  the fixing of the same deadline for the submission of  proposals for the amendment of particular budget  items concerning programme projects and proposals  dealing with the total budget figure.
(44) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) (Chairman and  Rapporteur of the Working Party) said his answer
706  LEGAL COMMITTEE  was "yes! to Mr, Saba's first question and "no" {0 the  second. He was pot convinced that the relation be-  tween the two questions did exist, Particular pro-  posals and resolutions affecting the total budget  ceiling itself should be considered in the light of the  fact that the Joint Working Party had proposed the  same time-limit for the submission of both categories  of proposals,
(45) The CHAIRMAN stated that the answer to Mr,  Saba's first question was therefore in the affirmative  and that Mr, Arthur's remarks supplied the answer  to the second, - |  In reply to a third question raised by the Legal Ad-  viser, he added that the report should mention the  need for the Executive Board to consider the various  rules and regulations with a view to bringing them  into line, and to present a draft revised text with a  recommendation that the Conference examine it at the  beginning of its next session.  He then reminded the meeting that the Japanese  delegation had submitted a draft resolution requesting  the Director-General and the Executive Board to  carry out such a study, The problems which had  arisen at the eighth and ninth sessions of the General  Conference had shown the importance of revising the  rules and regulations as a whole, instead of amending  isolated paragraphs.  He thanked the members of the Legal Committee  for their co-operation and also expressed his gratitude  to the Legal Adviger and other members of the  Secretariat,
(46) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) thanked the Chairman, on behalf of the Legal  Committee, for the tact and wisdom he had shown in  presiding over its work.  The meeting rose at 11.30 a.m.