(60) Mi, BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia) congratulated  the authors of thé resolution and said that he would be  sorry if, owing to lack of funds, Unesco could not pay  due tribute to Coménius. On behalf of his delegation,  he requested that, if an edition of Comenius' works  were brought ait-in English and French, it should also  be issued in Spanish.
(61) Mr, ZIMIN (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  seconded the draft résolution submitted by Czecho-  slovakia and récalled that all modern education was  based on Comenius' work, He therefore considered  it a moral obligation for Uneaco to adopt the Czecho-  slovak proposal and thus to recognize that the part  played by great men in human history was to be judged  primarily by the influence which their ideas exercised  throughout the world.
(62) Mr, FRANCOIS (France) stated that articles and  books commemorating the publicdtion of Comenius’  work had alréady appeared in France. French  teachers were keenly interested in the celebration of  that anniversary and could not accept the idea that  Unesco should not take an active part in it.
(63) Mr. WEEDEN (Australis) was disappointed that    COMMISSION  there should be any discussion on the merits of the’  Czechoslovak proposal, There could be no question  a8 to the importance of Comenius’ work and  Mr, Weeden thought Unesco should publish material  about that great writer by all means at ite disposal,  without confining itself to acceptance of the very  modest Czech proposal.
(64) In answer to a question from the CHAIRMAN,  Mr. PAZUR (Ciechoslovalia) said that he agreed to  the figure proposed by the Department of Cultural ‘-  Activities for the execution of the resolution.
(65) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote document
9C/DR/28, which had been amply supported, including  the provision by Unesco of $4,000.
(66) The resolution was unanimously adopted.
(67) On behalf of his country, Mr. PAZUR  (Czechoslovakia) thanked the Commission for having  adopted the draft resolution submitted by the  Czechoslovak delegation.  The meeting rose at 9,10 p.m,  THIRTY-THIRD MEETING
1 December 1956, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. ANAS (Afghanistan)  later: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)
(1) Mr. BERTRAND(France) suggested that there  be a slight change in the order in which tae items on  the agenda were dealt with, and that the two small  parts of the Social Sciences chapter still remaining  be completed rapidly first. '
(2) The proposal was adopted,  ITEM 9.3 OF THE AGENDA : BOCIAL SCIENCES (continued)  (documents 9C/5 and Addenda and Corrigends)
3.11 Social Science Co-operation Offices  {paragraphs 181 to 181)
(3) Mr. PINO SAAVEDRA (Chile) asked whether the  project was justified since the establishment of the  centres at Rio de Janeiro and Santiago, Chile. He  suggested that the experts’ responsibilities might be  changed so that the work of those two centres could  be co-ordinated.
(4) Replying fo the delegate of Chile, Mr, MARSHALL  (Director, Départment of Social Sciences) carfirmed '  that the establishment of two Latin American centres  lessened the need for a special office in Chile. He     suggested that the Commission merely take note of  the fact inat the Secretariat, in making certain budget-  ary reductions, would consider the possibility of  economiring on that office, either by abolishing it  altogether or by postponing its establishment.
(5) Resolution 3111 was unanimously adopted.  ITEM 9.3.2 OF THE AGENDA : STANDARDIZATION OF  EDUCATIONAL STATISTICS (documents DC/PRG/4 and 28)
(6) Mr, KUYPERS (Belgium) pointed out that Working  Party No. 5 had given a unanimous opinion on docu-  ment 9C/PRG/4, relating to the staridardization of  educaticnal statistics, and had found it possible to  recommend a saving through production of the manual  on educational statistics in multigraphed instead of  printed form. iE
(7) Mr. BERTRAND (France) supported the draft  resolution cortéined in paragéapha 5 té 8 of the report  decument 9C/PRG/28.- He asked the Secretariat to  catimate the saving which would result from multi-  graphing the manual, and from the deletion of the  provision for experts! travel in connexion with the
504   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  preparation of that york, As it was to be only a small  man yt C rmanent use, consultation by corres-  pendence could no doubt be substituted for the proposed  travel. -  {8) Mr. SHEARMAN (United Kingdom), referring to  paragraph © of document 9C/PRG/28, inquired  whether Member States which had not served on the  Working Partywould be able to forward comments to  the Secretariat ca the principles and definitions set  forth in document 8C/PRG/4. .
(9) Mr. MARSHALL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) replied in the affirmative.” He added that  certain of the very interesting comments on points of  detail made by members of the Working Party would  be discussed by the commitiee of technicians and  experts mentioned in paragräph 8; ‘the United  Kingdom would certainly be represented on that body,  but any proposals which it might wish to make in  advance would bé very welcome.  In answer to the ‘delegate of France, Mr, Marshall  said that the staff travel costs applied to paragraph
85 of document 9C/5, Part II, Chapter 3, and that the  only reduction that could be made would be on piinting  costs (paragraph 87), i.e. the sum of $675.
(10) Mr. TENA ARTIGAS (Spain) supported the  projects described in the Working Party's report,  Despite the ratige of problems examined and the short  time at the disposal of the Working Party, its report  was a clear and explicit statement on the standardi-  zation of educational statistics. -As had béen said in  the general discussion on thé programme, Unesco  could undertake the collection of data in order to  assess the gravity of the various problems requiring  solutions, Everyone who had anything to do with  educational ‘probléms was aware that without such  evaluation it was impossible to do anything effective.  He supported the proposal of the French delegate  and expressed the hope that the opinion of the com-  mittee of experts would be known before the publica-  tion of the manual, which he considered would be most  useful.
(11) Paragraphs 4 to 10 of document 9C/PRG/28  were approved unanimously,  Draft resolution 9C/DR/46
(12) Mr. MARSHALL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) explained that the budgetary implications of  the proposal submitted by the French delegation: -  regarding surveys concerning the cultural level of  populations depended upon the interpretation of the  sentence, i.e, whether "to supply assistance  from the Secretariat in carrying out such surveys'  meant to give financial asgistance or merely to give  technical advice. I* would be à very large under-  taking to agree to give financial assistance, but the  Secretariat was in a position to supply technical  advice and would bé very glad to do so.
(13) Mr. BERTRAND (France) replied that the  French delegation’ s intention was simply that Unesco  should furnish technical advice, which should have no  budgetary implications.
(14) Mr, KOVAL ‘(Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic) felt that the problem raised in document -
9C/DR/46 was of fundamental importance, ‘ The  resolution, however, was drafted in terms that were  too general. In fact the most accurate and practical -  statement was to be found ih document 8C/PRG/4,  which had already been adopted by the Commission,  The Soviet delegation felt that it would not be resson-  able to adopt document 8C/DR/46 as well, and that it  would be preferable to concentrate all efforts on the  pointa stressed in document 9C/PRG/4.
(15) Document 9C/DR/46 was seconded by  Afghanistan, ‘
(16) Mr, BERTRAND (France) feared that the dele-  gate of the Ukraine was under a misapprehension,  Document 9C/DR/46 related to the cultural level of  populations whereas document 8C/PRG/4 dealt with  educational statistics: the two fields were entirely  separate.
(17) Mr, VITO (Italy) wondered whether it was really  necessary for the Commission to vote on the French  proposal, since Member States could request such  advice under the Participation programme. He  proposed that the Commission simply take note of  document 9C/DR/46.
(18) Mr. MARSHALL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) pointed out that it was not just a  recommendation affecting the work plans, but a reso-  lution, authorizing the Director-General to take  certain action. As there were no budgetary implica-  tions, he did not think it could be included in the  Participation programme.
(19) Mr. LEE (United States of America) was sorry  that he could not support thé French proposal, which  had already been discussed under Education and Social  Sciences, It was an invitation to Member States to do  something rather vast and not very precise, and the  United States delegation believed that the results would  be better if the Director-General were asked to study  the matter more fully with Member States interested  and to prepare a more precise resolution for the  General Conference at its tenth session.
(20) Mr, BERTRAND (France) in reply to the dele-  gate of the United Statés of America, suggested that  speculation as to whether many Member States would  be interested in the surveys and would be willing to  take part in them was possibly only of secondary  intereat. One thing was certain: - all delegations had  appreciated the importance of the proposed study.  Furthermore, the proposal carried no budgetary  implications, and the Department of Social Sciences  was ready to help. The project offered a possibility  of opening up a new field of work for the Department.
(21) Document 9C/DR/46 was adopted by 32 votes to
2, with 14 abstentions.  (Mrs, Myrdal (Sweden) took the Chair.)
(22) Outlining the Commiasion' . time-table of work,  the CHAIRMAN explained that it was obliged to deal,   IV-33 PROGRAMME  before the end of the day, with all items on its agenda  having budgetary implications, in order that its  decisions thereon might be submitted to the Ad Hoc  Committees on Budget Adjustments for discussion on  Monday, 3 December.
(23) Ona point of order ; Mr, VITO (Italy) pointed out  that the Ad Hoc Committee would have very little  time to discuss the criteria on which adjustmients _  were to be based, . He hoped that it would adopt the  most objectiva criteria possible, doing its 8 utmost to  avoid arbitrary decisions.
(24) The CHAIRMAN remarked that ‘the whole /  question had been settled in the plenary conference  the previous day. There woul!, however, be an  opportunity to raise the matter again at the Joint  Meeting of the Programme and Administrative  Commissions. . She added that the member ship of the  Ad Hoc Committee had been decided in such a way as  to guarantee its objectivity.  Draft resolution’ 0C/DR/83
(25) The Polish draft resalution entitled contribution  by Unesco to the development of peaceful coexistence  was seconded by Mr, BERTRAND (France),
(26) Mr. MARSHALL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) welcomed the resolution, since it referred  to an item to which his Department attached very great  importance and which had already been strongly  endorsed by the Commission.  The question whether the activity concerned might  develop into'a major project raised rather difficult  issues, however, as there would be many other  activities proposed as major projects. He therefore  hoped that the Polish delegation would not press that  aspect of its proposal.. The Department of Social -  Sciences interpreted paragraph (4) (b) to mean that it  -as‘an interdepartmental one,  co-operating especially closely with the Exchange of  Persons Service, and seeing how far the latter could  devote more of its résources to exchanges designed  to promote peaceful co-operation, There would thus  be no budgetary implications,
(27) Mr. SCHAFF (Poland) stressed the tremendous.  implications of draft résolution 9C/DR/83.: The . _  Polish'delegation noting that the contemporary world  was divided into a Socialist bloé and a Capitalist bloc,  and also that Unésco had thought it riecessary and.  possiblé to attempt to bring closer two other groups  which, ih a ditferént sphère, were no less different  one from the other - countries with an Eastern civi-.  lization and countries with a Western civilixetion -  felt that Unesco was also under. an obligation to pro-.  moté mutual appreciation of the cultural values of the  two blocs with different econémnié and social systems.  The Polish delegate drew the attention of members of  thé Commissiôr to thé concept of à "political region  stressing that the various regions could not be defined  simply. by geographical or cultural criteria. In  conclusion, he pointed out that there were two parts to  draft resolution 9C/DR/83: the first invited the  Director-General to prépare a major project on that  theme for the tenth session of the Couference; and the
806     COMMISBION  ‘second inyited him, within the framework of the  programme and budget for 1957-1958, and ‘therefore’  without any additional expenditure, to encourage. aly  contacts and exchanges which might develop under:  standing between countries with differing social and  economic systems.
(28) Mr. LEE (United States "of America) said that  the United States Government, at the highest level,  had, on several occasions; emphasized its desire for  peaceful co-operation with the ‘countries of the Eastern  bloc, . Despite many disappointments and setbacks,  his Government was still convinced that progress  towards that objective was being made, It belieyed  that the aim of the Polish proposal could best be  attained by the countries directly concerned, and not  under the sponsorship of Unesco,  Further, although the delegate of Poland had ‘said  that the project had no budgetary implications, Mr  Lee pointed out that it was a long-term project which  would certainly call for expenditure by Unesco in future  years, He believed, moreover, that the Chairman had  said that the introductory paragraphs raised legal  difficulties, It was, in any case, a proposal which  would bring Uneaco into the political sphere, and the  United States delegation therefore moved that it be  not approved,
(28) The CHAIRMAN observed that ghe had not  mentioned legal difficulties in connexion with the  proposal under discussion.
(30) Mr. VITO (Italy) recalled that, in pursuance of a  resolution adopted in Montevideo, a series of meetings  of specialists on peaceful coexistence had taken place  under the auspices of Unesco, but the outcome had not  been as satisfactory as expected, He therefore did not  think the time was ripe to carry out the Polish  proposal. ‘It would be better to await the results of  the Secretariat's studies on the subject.
(31) Mr. SCHAFF (Poland) replied at length to the  delegate of the United States of Amarica, He began by  stressing the Polish delegation's disappointment at  his statement. If the Government of the United States  of America was as anxious as Mr, Lee had said to -  encourage contacts with Eastern Europe, how could the ’  American delegation reject draft resolution 9C/DR/83,  which was designed precisely for that purpose? . He  noted with regret that the United States delegation  apparently contemplated improving international .  relations simply by speeches, and not by action,  Furthermore, the composition of delegations, and the  assignments of certain of their members, proved that  even in Unesco where, in theory ; it.was hoped to .  avoid politics, the political aspect of certain parts of  the programme could not in fact be ignored; The  problem of international understanding was also,  however, the problem of peaceful coexistence: it was  necessary to state that fact; anid to work together, by  practical measures, to improve such understanding.»  Through its proposal, the Polish delegation had  wished to proclaim, on behalf of all Socialist countries,  that it believed in the possibility of improving inter-  national relations through education, science and  culture. In document 9C/DR/83, it had indicated the  means to be used to that end. It was surprising that   PROGRAMME  the delegation of the United States of America was  speaking against auch exchanges, whilst affirming the  necessity for them elsewhere, .  Mr, Schaff added that the Polish proposal gave rise  to no difficulty from the legal point of view. It had no  budgetary implications. Finally, while the authors of  the proposal had contemplated a new major project, it  was only for the 1959-1960 period: the Polish dele-  gation would be satisfied if the activities currently  planned in connexion with international contacts and  exchanges were to be intensitied.
(32) The CHAIRMAN. proposed to adjourn the debate  on draft resolution 8C/DR/83, as the General Com-  mittee had asked the Commission to discuss, during  the day, only items with budgetary implications, She  requested the Commission to return to the chapter on  Education.  TTEM 9.1 OF THE AGENDA : EDUCATION (continued)  (documents 9C/5 and Addenda and Corigenda)
1.7 - Emergency educational assistance (parcgraphs
213 to 234 and document 9C/DR/125 Rev.)
(33) Mr. KUYPERS (Belgium) stated that his dele-  gation wished, by its proposal, to give practical form  to the spirit of co-operation which had been shown at  the current session, There were no political allusions  in document 9C/DR/125 Rey, He pointed out the  changes which his delegation had made to the original  text following the statement made by Mr. Maheu in  plenary meeting, and proposed another amendment  which would consist in shortening paragraph (5) to  read: "Instructs the Director-General to ensure, in  close co-operation . .." The presence of a large  number of Hungarian refugees in Austria, and the  need for meeting their requirements, also suggested  that the end of paragraph (1) should be amended to  read; ",, . equipment to chililren an’ young people  who have ‘been the victims of the recent eyents in  Hungary and Egypt". Those charges broadened the  scope of the proposal a little, as assistance was  necessary not only in the schools, :  Mr, Kuypers added that; from conversations which  he had had with the competent officials, it would -  seem that the Secretariat might be able to use the  Working Capital Fund to finance such work, under  Article 6 of the Financial Regulations: paragraph (6)  of the resolution would thus be replaced by: "Decides  to draw the necessary funds trom the Working Capital  Fund". -  - Mr, Kuypers added that Unesco might usefully make  its work known in thé regions conéerned by stamping  its hame or emblem on any materials which were sent  there, as was the practice of UNICEF and other bodies  which gave material help to children in difficult  circumstances. ‘ Encouraged Ly the unanimity which  the Conference had shown on the subject of Egyptian  monuments, Mr. Kuypers hoped that the same unani-  mity would be in evidence in corinexion with the  children who were the victims of recent events.
(34) Mr. TOTH (Hungary) welcomed draft resolution
9C/DR/125 Rev. in its original form. Recent events  in Hungary had caused great damage in educational,
507  COMMISSION     v-33  scientific and cultural fields; museums, | libraries and  a great many schools had been destroyed, and eduça-  tion had inevitably been interrupted. The Hungarian  delegation therefore warmly supported the spirit and  purpose of the Belgian proposal, Mr, Toth added that  he would like to speak again at a later sage in the  discussion, . ; -
(35) Mr. HUSAIN (india) ‘ very cordially supported the  Belgian proposal and was glad that the delegate of  Belgium had stressed the non-political character af.  the draft resolution, India deeply regretted the inter -  ruption of the education of children and young people  in both the countries concerned, and attached equal  importance to their respective misfortunes. India  also warmly supported the Belgian proposal to extend  assistance to refugee children and adolescents from  those two countries.  In conclusion, Mr. Husain suggested that Unesco  might seek the co-operation of the World University  Service, which did excellent work in the same field,  Unesco might find that it could work through the  machinery of that service.
(36) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the financial  implications of the draft resolution had been completely  changed by the latest proposal to draw money from the  Working Capital Fund.
(37) Mr, SCHAFF (Poland) would have supported  unreservedly the original text of the Belgian proposal.  The amendments presented had considerably changed  it, however, and he requested that no vote be taken  until the final text had been distributed.
(38) The CHAIRMAN agreed that the Commission  should await the amendments in writing before conti-  nuing the discussion. The Belgian proposal did not,  however, affect resolution 1.71 and she asked if the  Commission were prepared to vote on it.
(39) Sir Richard BOYER (Australis) believed that the  section concerned might be affected by the decision  taken on the Belgian resolution, He therefore moved  adjournment of resolution 1.71 also,  Agreed.  MAJOR PROJECT 1A: EXTENSION OF PRIMARY EDUCATION IN  LATIN AMERICA (continued) (documents 6C/5, Corrlgenda 1 and 4, and
8C/PRA/26, porsgraohs 10to » .  (ao) Introducing the relevant section of the report of  the Working Party on Major Projects, Mr.‘ HOPE  (United States of América) (Rapporteur of the Working  Party) requésted the Commission to accept the nine  criteria to be used in the selection of major. projects  (document 9C/PRG/26, paragraph 6, page 3). .  With regard to the administrative structure at Lo  Major Project 1A; mémbers of the Working Party had  been particularly anxious to make it clear that the .  interests of the variois Latin American countries  would bé fairly represented throughout the adinini-  strative pr tô be adopted. The Working -  Party had, however, also sought to make it clear that,  although the project was to be implemented in Latin  toy   Iv-33 PROGRAMME COMMISSION  America with; it was hoped, the’ full’ support and co-  opiration of the States in that region, it would be open  to the participation of all Member States and would be  of valué to other areas of the woild,  Lastiy, Mr, Hope. proposed the following small  amendment to paragraph 11 (iii), Inthe second line,  after "... the OAS and", the following words would be  added: "of the participating American States and of  the Céribbean Commission’.
(41) Thanking the Working Partyfor its report, the  CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to apprové the nine  criteria, which had in fact been taken into considera-  tion from the outset.
(42) Mr. ARREAGA (Guatemala) tet bout À to express  his opiriion on the project, which was’ of direct concern  to all the Indo-American peoplés. : Nothing was more  encouraging than the interedt showri by Unesco in  promoting éducatiori in Latin‘ America, : He'reminded  the representativés of countriés ‘outside’ Latin America  that the Inter-Américan Conferènce “of Ministers of  Education held in Lina during the current year had  studied the major project and approved it in principle,  That was due to the fact that the Ministers meeting in  Lima, while aware of the need for spreading education,  fiengreed with some fedtures of the ‘procedure for  - Garrying out the project. The proposal was that  Unesco experts should make a survey of the éducational  situation in order to advise on the measures necessary  to remedy the shortage of schools” -It was the oplriton  of his and other delegations that the problem was not  due to a shortage of educational experts. Delegates  were thoroughly familiar with the economic and social  situation in their respective countries, and were already  fairly sure that the experts’ conclision would be that  there was a lack of schools, teachers and the money  to pay for either.  The major project also referred ' very properly, to  teacher training, There were two institutions engaged  in such training: CREFAL and the Inter-American  Rural Normal School at Rubio in Venezuela. Whatever  the experts might do and conclude in two years of -  study, it was of more importance to cansider forth-  with whether it was advisable tô send teachers to the  Centres referred to for training, so that, on returning  to their own countries, they could train other teachers,  In any event, whichevei was the better of the following  two ideas - which were not incompatible - should be  accepted: the sending of fellowship holders to -  specialize, which was more helpful and more vital  for Latin America; and expert missions which could  be useful for those areas where experimental centres  were functioning, .  ‘The second item in section I ot document / 6 -  Corrigendum 4 referred to an allocation of $72,000  for expert assistance to three Member States. Item 7  of the same section allocated $21,500 for publicity for  the project.’ . Guatemala would propose that the’  Director-General be authorized to transfer that sum  to increase the number of fellowships for Psiscuaro,  the School at Rubio and any others that migic be  established. The acceptance of his proposal would  give great satisfaction to his delegation. ‘
(43) Mr. NANNETTI (Organization of American  States) said that the Charter of the Organization of
508  American Stated stated that the right to education was  à préredilisite for the‘éxercise’ of other human rights,  Education should be free and compulsory, For that  reason, OAS had supported the major project under  discussi¢n from thé time of {ts inception, The:  problem wi's of considerable magnitude. While there  were 20,000,000 children of ‘school age in Latin  America; only 18 ,000,000 attended school, which :  meant that almost half of the total were condemned to  ignorance. There was rio need to’ stress the conse- .  quence of such à situation; ‘It was for that reason that  the project deserved the epithet "major", rathér than  tor the limited funds ét its disposal for tackling the  enormous ‘problem itivolved,- . - ,  Thé disparity between the problem and the available  means had two consequences, -The first was the need  to stimulate the Latin American governments to extend  their educational programmes and make them more  effective; the second was the need to ‘develop assist-  ance for the training of teachers, Thé major project-  was most important as a means of guiding national’  efforts. OAS considered that the planning of education  was of great importance,” Suth planning was the  greatest responsibility and of great significance for  history and therefore merited the support of OAS,  In 1957 an Inter-Ameritan Seminar on educational  planning would be held, probably in Colombia, where  interesting work had been done thanks to the efforts  of Dr, Betancur Mejia, the Minister of Education,  whose endeavours should serve as a model to other  American countries; -  The problem was more serious in rural ireis.’ A  survey had shown that the school-ige population of  such areas was more than double that of urban areas,  But while 56 per cent of the children attended school  in the latter, only 25 per cent did so in the former,  There were 25,000 more teachers in urbén than 1a  rural schools. The most suitable kind of assistance  in that field for Latin America would be to trdin  principals and teachers for rural teacher training  colleges. As an example; nearly 1,200 teachers in  the rural schodls of Haitl were unqualified, "More  than 500,000 children did not go to school. - The School  at Port-au-Prince trained only 40 teachers a year.  On the other hand, the Rubio School was training  hundreds of teachers annually, - -  The speaker supported the proposal of the’ repres-  entative of Guatemala for the transfer of funds, as  those now allocated were scanty, With the stm of  $172,000 allocated for expert assistance in document .
9C/8 Corrigendum 4, section I, item 2, 18 spetialists  could be trained and would then train teachers in their  respective countries; The Guatemalan propossl was tb  good one and would have practical results. i  Mr. Nannetti concluded by giving an assurance on  behalf of OAS that his Organization would collaborate  with Unesco in carrying out the major project, in  order that the hopes reposed in it might be fulfilled,
(44) Mr, ‘ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General) * ‘  welcomed Mr, Nannetti’s remarks regarding the close  co-operation which had existed during the preparation  of the project between the Organization of American  States and Unesco. The vastness of the problem,  particularly in rural areas, had been rightly emphas-  ized, In all its preparatory work, the Secretariat had  been guided by the kind of considerations mentioned   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  . by the delegate of Guatemala and the representative  “of OAS. - an =  It had been suggested that the sum of $72,000 for  additional provision for expert assistance to three  Member States, and the sum of $21,500 to enlist wide  public support for the project (document 9C/5- -  Corrigendum 4) be transferred to a fellowship and  study-grant programme to assist the Inter-Amarican  School at Rubio. Mr; Adiséahiah suggested that the  matter bo left às it stood for the time being, aa the  Secretariat would be submitting the work plans to the  Intergovernmental Advisory Committee for advice on  the use and distribution of resources, The Secret-  ariat hoped to have a considerable amount of flexi-  bility in the work plans; #o that it could move funds  from ane head to another, according to needs, As for  the centre at Rubio, Mr, Adiseshiah had discussed  Unesco's participation with the OAS and with the  Governments of Colombia and Venezuela. He hoped  that the results of those consultations would be  awaited before deciding to what extent Unesco's  financial resources should be channelled to the centre.
(45) Mr. TENA ARTIGAS (Spain) streased the great  importance of thé niajor project and said that his  delegation strongly supported it. It was the beginning  of à gigantic task within Unesco's sphere of action  and it would have tremendous repercussions not only  at the primary but at other levels of education, In  the same way, the project would be of use to other  regions of the world and, for that reasan also,  deserved his country's support. As the countries  concerned ware akin to Spain, which had founded  universities and colleges in them, Spain's support was  firm and strong, as was her desire to co-operate in  carrying out the project. - =. .  At the Lima Conference referred to, Spain had  offered fellowships and other forms of aid, and Lir,  Tena Artigas wished to confirm those offers,  The general oriticism that could be levelled against  the project was the very limited funds available to  carry out a task of such magnitude, For that reason,  the proposal of the Guatemalan delegation and OAS for  the tranafer of the sum of $21,500 - which did riot  teem essential, as the project needed no publicity -  was worthy of consideration, The largest possible  sum should be so transferred, So
(46) Mr, FATONE (Argentina) supported the project  and pointed out that his country would not benefit  therefrom, as the position with regard to primary  education in Argentina was most satisfactory; it had  been free and compulsory for some time, The same  was true with regard to the training of teachers. -  There was in fact a surplus of téachers in Argentina -  and it would be very helpful if exchanges of qualified  teachers could be arranged. All teachers in service  in Argentina were appropriately qualified. :  To help in carrying out the project, Mr. Fatone  recommended that professors at schools of education  be asked to take the educational situation in each  country as a subject for their courses or seminars.  In that way, more reliable material than government  statistics, which were generally incomplete, would be  brought to light. If all the Latin American universities  were to work on those lines, a comprehensive and  accurate survey of the situation could be obtained,
609     Iv-33  Argentina would ask that one’ of the universitiss  chosen for the 1957 summer courses or:1958  seminars sh be the University of Buenos Aires. -  The universities, tsachers' training colleges and  other institutions of his country were at the dispocal  of Uneaco and the Committee in charge of the project.  In conclusion, he expressed his agreement with the  speakers who had urged that the funds allocated to  publicity be used for ancther purpose.
(47) The CHAIRMAN suggested that, as in the case of  the other major projects, the Commission vote on a  total budget figure. . :
(48) Mr. LIAUTAUD (Haiti) simply added that his  delegation warmly supported the major project, and  -also the comments of the delegate of Guatemala and  the representative of OAS on the need for training a  larger number of teachers, and for giving mare  attention to the rural aspect of the problem. He was  much encouraged by the comments of the Director-  General's representative, and had every confidence in  the Secretariat,
(49) Mr. NANNETTI (Organization of American  States) expressed his satisfaction at the remarks of  the Assistant Director-General, He did not consider  {t necessary to vote on the details of the budget; the  procedure used in approving Major Project 4A might  be followed. :
(50) Mr, DIAZ-GONZALEZ (Venezuela) supported  the project and the remarks made by the representa-  tive of OAS with regard to the work plan, He agreed  with the Assistant Director-General that the Adviséry  Committee's opinion should be heard before the plan  was drawn up. The Progranime Commission could  make a recammendation to that effect to the Director-  General without there being any need to amend the  document,
(81) Mr. SCHAFF (Poland) said that his delegation  warmly supported the mejor project and the proposals  of the Spanish and Argentine delegations that the funds  proposed for enlisting public support be used to  increase the number of fellowships. .
(52) Mr. BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia) had attended  the Lima Conference as his country's Minister of  Education and could express the satisfaction of the  Conference with regard to the project. - The represen  tative of OAS had spoken of the magnitude of the under-  taking and he wanted to stress what had been said  about the differences between primary education in  urban and rurel areas; In the former, the period of  schooling lasted from five to six years and in the .  latter from one to two. . There was also the problem  of the proportion of untrained teachers.-: Ât the moment,  Colombia was carrying out comprehensive plans for  education and that method was one that could be used.  wherever the need to extend educational facilities . .  existed. He described his country's comprehensive  ten-year plan, and stated thet, under Colombian law,  municipalities had to allocate 10 per .cent  of their budgets to education, and provinces
25 per. cent. In. addition, 25 per cent of  any increase in budgetary resources had to   Iv-33  be .set aside ‘annually: for .the same purpose.  He apprecisted Mr. Nannstti's remarks and urged  that, when funds were distributed; the importance of  studying comprehensive plans for education should  be taken into consideration. :° ...! + Lu  He agréed with the Guatemalan delégation's request  that the $72,000 allocated for expert assistance be  used to assist the Rubio School and other schools  preparing plans for intensive training, and for radio  and correspondence courses, On the other hand, he  did not agree with the proposal to tranafer the sum of  $31,500 set aside for informing the public about the  aims and importance of the project; as it was neces-  sary to make the public aware of the significance of  education; The public always tended to take more  intereut in the building of power stations, highways,  etc, -than in educational matters, If the sum were  skilfully sniployed, the population would develop a  better understanding. of what education meant, At the  same time, parents had to be educated to appreciate  the importance of educatic for their children.  Colombia was anxious to take part in the project  and to offer fellowships at the "Universidad Superior  de Pedagogia" in Tunja and at the Institute of Rural  Education in Pamplona, . . . :  The remarks of the Assistant Director-General  were logical, since the programme had to be flexible  enough to allow the Advisory Committee to apply it in  accordance with circumstances and in the most  effective way, He thanked the Spanish and Argentine  delegations for their offers of collaboration,  For those countries outside Latin America, the  project would be a sort of pilot project, the results of  which would be useful to the whole world and would  add to Unesico's achievements, In conclusion, he  reiterated his country's offer of co-operation and  thanked the Secretariat for the interest it had taken  and the efficient way in which it had acted with regard  to the project. .
(53) Mr, PINO SAAVEDRA (Chile) had no wish to  lay further stress on the importance and urgericy of  the project, as that had already béen unanimously  expressed by the previous speakers. He praised the  Secretariat for the full and clear vay’ it had been  prepared, which made any further explanation  unnecessary. He wished to correct an impression,  which some àf the members of the Commission might  have gained, that nothing had been done to combat  illiteracy in Latin America, That was not true, but  the situation Was most complex. In some countries,  including Chile for the past 30 years, compulsory :  education had been introduced, and it had then been  believed that illiteracy, would be eliminated within a  short time. If it had incrèased nevertheless, it had  been due not to lack of teachers, but to the fact that  the Government had lacked thé necessary funds f  .. the building and equipment’ef schools. |: .- .  His Government would assist in the project; through  the University of Chile, which was an official institu-  tion but self-governing. » Chile's educational tradition  went back fof more than 50 years. - Its Educational  Institute, established in 1890; had trained experts in  the humanities, éélence ind technology. It not only -  trained teschers for advanced classes but aiso con-:  ducted résearch in the field of applied education, The  educatiénal research work had not been well co-
510  PROGRAMME COMMIS3ION  ordinated and consetuently the Institute for Education-  al Research, which would do sll it could to help in the  project, had been founded, ; _  He was confident that the Director-General, the  Secretariat, and the Department of Education would  do everything necessary, on their side, to make the  project à success.
(54) Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  assured the Commission that the whole implementation  of the major. project would be guided by the recom-  mendations and supervision of the Intergovernmental  Advisory Committee, which would be composed of  government experts, . CL Lea  Secondly, he pointed out that the total budget figure  would be somewhat tentative, as it was connected with  the Havana Office, Forty thousand dollars had been  transferred to the major project from that Office, but  if it were decided to maintain the latter, the Ad Hoc  Committee on Budget Adjustments would recommend  a reduction in that budget to the Commission.  With regard to the importance of increasing fellow-  ships and study grants, in addition to the 30 fellowships  mentioned in the major. project; offers of 20 fellowships  had been received from Chile and 10 from France.  Referring to the membership of the Advisory Com-  mittee, Mr. Adiseshiah pointed out that there were  two possible solutions; (1) all the 22 American  Member States participating could serve on it, together  with the representatives of OAS, the Caribbean Com-  mission and Unesco; (2) the Executive Board might be  asked to choose a smaller group, say of 12 countries,  with the aforesaid representatives.
(55) Mr. BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia) said that it  was difficult to convene a large committee. He  thought it would be more practical to have a member-  ship of twelve, plus representatives of any States  which asked to take part in the Committee's work.  In that way, all who wished would be represented.
(56) Mr. ARREAGA (Guatemala) agreed that the  Committee should consist of twelve members,  provided that the various parts of Latin America were  represented on it.
(57) Mr, LAGOS (Chile) agréed with the Colombian  proposal on condition that those who were not members  of the Committee, but sat on it; would have the right to  speak and vote on the same footing as the twelve  titular members. .
(58) Mr. LIAUTAUD (Haiti) felt that the proposal for  a small committee was preferable, as work was more  constructive when membership was limited than when  a large number of members were present, . Further-  more, since all the countries of South and Central  America were equally interested in the matter, those  not directly represented on the Committee could send  observers.
(59) The CHAIRMAN suggested that the details of the  project bé lefi to the Executive Board. ;  Agreed.
(60) The section of document 9C/PRG/36   PROGRAMME GOMMISSION  relating to Major Project 1A was approved, - :
(61) Resolution 1,81 and the budgetary provisions in  documenta 9C/5 Corrigendum 1 and Corrigendum 4  were unanimously approved.  Draft resolution 9C/DR/71
(62) The Philippines draft resolution concerning a  proposed major project on à Unesco Youth Institute  for Asia was seconded by Mr, SH (China).
(63) Mise TRINIDAD (Phitlippines) wished to withdraw  the ward "major" before "project'!, as she believed:  that to call it'a major project would defeat the purpose  of the resolution. She suggested that, with that amend-  ment,’ the project might be fitted into the major project  on mutual appreciation of Eastern and Western  cultural values; 1°  ‘A Youth Institute already ‘existed in thie European  ares and a similar ingtitute was hééded in Asia to  serye the needs of that part of the world. However,  whereas the Gauting Institute aimed at certain object-  ives in‘échools, the Youth Institute for Asia would aim  at serving young people out of school; endeavouring to  reduce the tension and restlessness from which young  people in the modern world were suffering.  The Government of the Philippines had riready 1.ade  special plans for the establishment of the institute; - à  site was available and budgetary provisions had been  made. ’  Lastly, the establishment of the institute was in  line with the recommendations of the Tokyo Seminar  in 1953.
(64) Mr. GUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education) thought the Philippine proposal excellent,  as Unesco! 8 efforts on behalf of Asian youth had so .  far been limited to thé'organization of to seminars.  The Programme Commission had already increased  the subvention granted to the Gauting Inst tute,  however ; and, for piirely budgetary ressony,  Mr. Guiton feared that the project, good à as it was,  could not be carried out.
(65) Echoing Mr. Guiton's regrets Mr. ADISESHIAH  (Assistant Director-General) said that, although it  was undoubtedly an excellent project, the Secretariat
511  IV-33  could not at’ ‘the moment recominend it with a  budgetary provision of $80 1000.  © (66) Mr, ZIMIN’ (Union of Sovivt Socialist Republics)  stated that the Soviet delegation was naturally very  much in favour of the Philippine proposal. He felt  obliged, ‘however, to make certain reservations ;  suggested by experience with the Gauting Institute,  which it seemad had only Just found thé right working  formula and could not yet bé judged by results. The  budgetary difficulties; - firthermore, led the Soviet °  delegation to proposé that the Commission simply °  recommend that the Director-General study the  proposal thoroughly and submit a report to the General  Cenference at its tenth session.
(67)  Miés TRINIDAD (Philippines) strongly apposied  to the Cammission not to agree that the establishment  of the institute be delayed for two years,
(68) Mr “ ADISESHIAH (Assistant Diréctor-General)  aaid that, although the Secretariat could not recom-  mend thé project with its budget éstimate af -  $80, 000, it would view with concern any decision to  defer thé institute's establishment, Unesco could  give some assistance under its Participation pro-  gramme and was also prepared to help the Government  of the Philippines by seeking to raise extra- budgetary  funds.
(69) Mr, SIH (China) strongly supported thé proposal  of the Philippines; Realizing the budgetary. difficul-  ties, however, he proposed that Unesco grant a token  subvention to the institute of $5,000 for 1957 and the  same amount for 1958.
(70) The CHAIRMAN announced that she would first  take à vote on the Soviet proposal, as being furthest  from the substantive motion.
(71) The Soviet proposal to request the Director -  General to make a thorough study of the question and  report thereon to the General Conference at its tenth  session was adopted by 28 votes to 1, with 13  abstentions.  The meting rose atl. 10 p.m.