21 November 1956, at 1. 15 a.m,  President Maulana AZAD (India)  CONTENTS  Suspension of Rule 18, paragraphé of tt.) Rules of Procedure  Addition.of new items to the agenda of the ninth session : . 195  RAFLAON OF RULES T9, PARAGRATH 6 OF TH RULES OF  PROCEDURE |  A. The ‘PRESIDENT (Translation): The Secretary -  will first present the recommendations of the General  Committee regarding the suspénsion of paragraph 6 of  Ride 78 of the Rules of Procedure, ,  th Mr, ‘MONTAGNIER {Secretary of the Conference)  (Translation from the French); .; Mr, President, the  Gengral Committee recommends that paragraph 8ot  Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure be suspended for the  duration of the present session, in ‘accordance with  the provisions of Rule 108, ., Paragri h 6 states that  draft resolutions or amendments’ whic ‘have ‘budgetary  repercussions must be referred to the Advisory Com-  mitiee on Programme and Budgét, for its congidera-  tion and opinion, ,. This organ of the General Con-,  ferénce has not met and the. Executive Board, ;in docu-  ment 9C/7, recommends its abolition, ‘Moreover,  in the case of draft. Fesolutions on the or, projects,  the General Conférence decided, :at an earlier meeting,  qe spend thé proyis evisions of Rule 78, “paragraph à, .  : h requires that i new ‘programme resolutions or  amendments to the draft programme shall reach the”.  Director-General in writing at least ten ‘days’ before ,  Wa opening of the session, :; As a result of that ‘deci-  sion, many draft résolutions haye been submitted in.  the Laat few days, snd {he General Committee, when’  borin them this morning, | de pri fe. hak Jom  lie Te oracams Come er. sals     HAT  . majority ofthe or suspen present and voting.
(3) “The PRESIDENT (Crransiation): i) the Conference  agrees with the suggestion, it has- to be by a two-..  thirds majority. Shall we yote by a show of ands ?  Will all who are in favour, of the suggestion made by -  ay General Committee for the suspension of para-  h 6 of Rule 78, please raise their hands ? Those  at st?  The proposal is- adopted.  (It has baen suggested that a telegram should be .  sent to the Olymplé Committee, ‘on behalf of this Con-  ference, conveying our cordial greetings to the meet-  ing which will be held in Melbourne, The Secretary  will read the proposed text.  “). Mr. MONTAGNIER, (Secretary ot. the’ ‘Coaference)  (Translation from the French); - (Mr, President, this  is the draft télegram submitted by the delegations of  France and Greece: "Ninth session General Conference  Unesco requests Australian Government convey to  International Olympic Committee {ts hearty wishes  for success of Melbourne Olympic Games as outstand- |  ing example of friendiy competition between ail  peoples in realm sport undertaken in spirit of inter-,  natignal understanding consistent with fundamental  purposes of Organization," ;  PO can SE: RI EERE 104
(6) The PRESIDENT (Translation); I hope you ail  “ agree with this suggestion, No objection? Carried  by acclamation. -  The next item is the draft Fesolution presented by  Greece. 1 call upon the Legal Adviser,  ADDITION OF NE FIENS TO THE AGENDA OF THE  NINTH SESRION | ; ;
(8) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser), (Fianalation from ca  French): . Mr, ‘President, may 1 vi « few word  explasiation regarding this item of the ‘agenda. ‘On.
4 September - iad say, within the. it _  ‘stipulated in Rulé 11 ‘of the Rules of Procedure! for.  the inclusion of supplementary Gestion in {he agend da -  ‘the Greek Government asked for inclusion in here: re-  vised agenda of the General Conference, of the question of  measures to be taken and recommendations tobe ….
11-17 PLENARY  addressed to Member Stites with a view to ensuring,  the free functioning of uchtion, } Thé Executive’ -  Board, though it includéd this item in the revised ag-  enda of the General Conference, pointed out that doubts  might be expressed, in this particular case, regarding  the competence of the General Conference and the  applicability of the Rules of ‘Procedure concerning  Recommendations to Member States and International  Conventions, In these circumstances, the General  Conference, at its meeting on 6 November, decided  to refer to the Legal Committee the Greek Govern-  ment's request for the inclusion of the item in question  in the Conference agenda, © Subsequently, in a letter  dated 18 November 1956, the Greek Government  stated that it was amending both the wording of thé item  which it wished to have inéiuded in the agéndä, and that  of the draft resolution it intended to submit to the Gen-  eral Conference. The General Committee felt that,  in these new circumstances, the doubts expressed re-  garding the admissibility of the Greek Government's  request might be removed, The General Conference  therefore has to decide whether, in view of the changes  in the wording of thé item that it is desired to include  in the agenda (which are shown in document 9C/DR/4  Rev.), it may not be advisable to insert this item in  the agenda forthwith,
(7) The ‘PRESIDENT (Translation): herd are pro-  posals for the addition of new items to the agenda of  the ninth session iri document 9C/17; dated 20 Novem-  ber, which all delegates have already received. ‘ : The  main purposë of this document is to'considér whether  two new draft resolutions should be included in the  agenda ot ‘riot! the draft resolution proposed by the  delegate of Egypt and the draft résolution préposed by  the delegations of Bulgaria and Czechoslovakia. The  General Commiftiee has’ recommended that the draft  resolution proposed by the delegate of Egypt be placed  on the agenda. In the case of the other; the General  Committee has’ recommended that it be not placed on  the agenda, ’ ‘In either case, the proceedirigs are  covered by Rule 14, 2 of the Rules of Procedure,” which  reads as follows: ~~  "New items of an “taportant and argent character  may be added tothe agenda by approval of a two-  thirds’ majority ‘of the Members present’ and voting:  but such new items shall be référred to the General  Committee of the Conférence for its report before the  vote is’ taken," in accordance ‘with Rule 38, paragraph 3.  The discussion of any néw itém’éd addéd to thé agenda  shall, at the request of any Member Staté’ or Asso-  ciate Member, be deferred for a‘period not exceeding  seven days after its inclusion in the agenda: "  The draft resolution which the General Commiltee  recommended for inclusion in the agenda may be dealt  with first (document 9C/DR/82), * The delegate of  France, I understand, wants to speak on this’ matter.
(8) Mr; ‘LAPIE (Rééhdé): (rfänstatioë, from the French):  Mr, President,’ af’ ‘the beginning of our séssion, ‘the -  Head of thé‘ French delegation,’ Mr: Bordeñeu és the  Secretary of State! for Fine ‘Arts,’ ‘explained iti véry clear  and eloquent terms the manfier In which the French‘  delegation intended to proceed at this Conference,’ He  said that the discussion of all cultural ‘questions would  be whole-heartedly supported by the delégation of the  French Republic, but that that of all questions of a      MEETINGS  - politi si nature would, ;in accordance with Unesco's  traditions and with the Organizétion's terms of refe-  rence, be opposed by our delegation, :  ‘That is the tradition, those are the instructions’ €?  that I proposé to follow on behalf of the French dele.  : gation on this occasion, In the General Committee,  speaking on behalf of that delegation, 1 have already’  supported and seconded the propdsal to include in  the agenda the question raised by the Egyptian draft  resolution, That resolution deals indeed with a par:  ticularly important, a particularly serious problem,  which concerns culture since it involves the danger  of the destruction of cultural property, Not only is  it our duty to develop general culture, everybody's  culture, in all countries, but also, when a grave or -.  delicate situdtion arises to threaten the treasures of  human civilization, Unesco must provide for and  support any measures by which they can be preserved,  And France is certainly following out her own humanis-  tic and cultural tradition when she comes to the rescue  of cultural property in danger,  That is why, in circumstances that some people may  regard as’ particularly delicate, - but that {s precisely  the reason why Francé itself asks for a discussion of  this subject - in circumstances which make thé French  Republic particularly anxious to show its determination  to protect’ cultural property in the évent of armied Cone  flict, ‘we are asking for the following item to be inclu-  ded in the agenda of the General Conférence: "Pro-"  tection of cultural property in the event of armed  conflict," i  It goes without saying, Mr: President, ladles and  gentlemen, that the French delegation formally’ Feserves  its right to propose amendments to the résolution’ Me  self when'it comes up for discussion, We simply”  wished to’ emphäsize, midway’ through this’ Conference,  that we had rot changed our minds with’ régard To wht  was said on the first day, by the Head of éur “delegation,  about thé protection of cultural property; and the Festric-  tion of Unesco's’ ‘competence to matters caltural,™ à  a case to which all our minds are particulérly sensitive  at the moment, France reaffirms her determination to  defend cultural property by ‘asking for the inclusion in  he agenda of the following item: "Protéction of cût-  tural property in the event of armed conflict."
(9) The PRESIDENT (Translation) Are theré any -  other speakers on this? 1f there are no other speak:  ers; ‘can we assüme that this is accepted unanimously  Accépted unanimously.  The second question js’ the ‘draft resolution presente  by the ‘delegations of Bulgaria and ‘Czechoslovakia,  which the Géneral Committee recommended should: (  not be included in the agenda. This will be found in  document 9C/DR/69.  I call \ipon thé delegate of the Union of Soviet sos ;  cialist Republics. .
(10) Mi; REMENOV- (Union of séviet | soctélist Re:  publics)" (Translation from the Russian): ‘ Mr. F.  President, lâdies and ‘gentlemen in’ éénnexfôri with *  our declsion’ io ‘ticlude’ in” thé agenda the draft ress:  lution’ presented by the ‘delegation of Egypt (document
9C/DR/82), the delegation of the Soviet Union pro“ *  poses the following amendment to that resolufiont  in paragraph (4), after the words "... and other?"  cultural property, the destruction of which", add the
186   CLENARY MEETINGS  words) “already begun as a result of. the aggression  by the United Kingdom, France and Israel against  Egypt, The rest of the sentence would remain un-  changed.
(11) The PRESIDENT (Translation); I would like to  point out to the delegate of the Unlon of Soviet Socialist  Republics that at the moment we are not discussing  the draft resolution which has already been included in  the agenda, We have taken up the question’ of the in-  clusion or otherwise of the draft resolution proposed  by Czechoslovakia and Bulgaria.  {12) Mr, KEMFNOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Re-  publics) (Translation from {he Russian): Mr, President  if 1 have understood you aright, an amendment of this  nature can be submitted later on. But since I have  already formulated it, perhaps you will allow it to  be circulated now in written form, to give delegates  more time to study it, If you like, I can read it out  again later. Thank you.
19 The PRESIDENT (Transiation); 1 think that will  be the best thing. If the delegate of the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics will hand over his amend-  mént to the Secretariat, they will circulate it so that,  when that resolution is considered, the amendment  may also be considered,
(14) Mr, KEMENOYV (Union of Soviet Socialist Re-  publics) (Translation from the Russian}; Thank you,  Mr. President, We shall now circulate the amend-  ment in written form, and when the time comes to  discuss it, you will, if necessary, allow me to speak,  Thank you,
(15) The PRESIDENT (Translation): Before the dele-  gate goes away, would he like to speak on the other  resolution that is under discussion?  I call upon the delegate of Egypt.
(16) Mr; AWAD MOHAMMED (Egypt}: Mr, Presidént,  fellow delvgates, I wish to. propose that this General  Conference permit | the’ draft resolution, the joint ‘draft  resolution of Bulgaria and Czechoslovakia, to be in-  éluded in our agenda, . That does. not necessarily mean  that you will approve this draft resolution or that you  will not allow it to be amended; "dr that you will not  reject it by a. majority, vote; but do not; fellow dele-  fates, let {it be fot is that-we have been precluded from  expressing an | ma ‘vital question like this.  We have just. ent. a flegram, of gréetings to | |  Melbourne, We have taken seyeral decisions in the  past about peace and ‘security. The question which  is dealt with in the Bulgairian-Czechosiovak draft -  resalution is not entirely. political, : It has its politi-  cal aspect, its economic aspéct, its cultural, edica-  tional and scientific “aspect; | in © her, words, 160 has its  Unesco aspects. ». So do not Jet if be said that Unesco  doté not even allow the quéétion | to be Fhided in plenary  -nigeting, You. have ‘ail; fellow. delegates, | listeried | to  speaker aftér speaker in this same room in the in-  sagural addresses which have been widely circulated,  You have listened to criticisms, condemnations,  re-  marks about what has been going on fn the world. …  !Wiÿ should we not continue the logical procedure and  ed that subject consideration ? I, personally, have
1     been receiving telegrams and letters asking me to  tnsist that the matter be considered by the General  ence . 1 have eyen recelyed a very. solemn  letter from some enthusiastic Hindi who said that  he would be ready to fast until this Conference has  considered the matter and passed some pension or  other,  Our President, Maulana Abut Kalam Azad, “tri his  most inspiring -and inspired address to this gather-  ing, slated that Unesco might be said to represent  the conscience of the world community, You, fellow  delegates, gathered here in’ the General Conference,  are the superior body of Unesco, It is in your ac-  tions and in your decisions that the conscience of.  Unesco is represented, . You represent this highly  sensitiv conscience of Unesco. For goodness!  sake, do not betray. the message, the cause, which  has been entrusted to you. Consclence is’ a very  strong power and I am Sure that we are ali liable to  pangs of conscience. . Even Mr; Eden's conscience  has been suffering lately and he has hac to go to hos-  pital to get it repaired, I hope that we shall not have  to go to hospital to have ours repaired also, Do not  let us put up a barrier before any resolution, even  if we do not approve it, even if we want to amend it,  even if we want to submit an alternative resolution  to it, Do not let it be said that we have decided to  shut our ears and to pretend that nothing is the  matter and that all is good in this world,  Mr, President, I think that this question should be  included in our agenda, 1 think it will affect the  ninth session of the General Conference if this reso-  lution is rejected without even a decent hearing.
(17) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call upon the  delegate of Italy.
(18) Mr. VERONESE (lialy) (Translation trom the  French}: Mr, President, fellow delegates, in stat-  ing the Italian delegation!s views on the question of  including the Bulgarian and Czechosiovak proposal  in the agenda, I wish to say that 1 spéak ) with protound  reluctante and cannot, hide my keen regret that such  a question ahold again have been raised, and the work  of the Conférence, ‘which is already behindhand, di-  verted from its proper and natural course.  I feel that ‘the General Committee was very wise in  déciding not to recommend the inclusion of this item  in the agenda.. …,  In the general discussion ai ‘the beginning of, the  session the sad and tragic present situation’ was.  brought before us with à ‘breadth, frankness, and dtg-  nity. whose, merits must be ‘appreciated | té, the full; -  ; Since then an Extraordinary. General ‘Assembly, of  the. United, Nations, and subsequent du ‘the ordinary  General Assembly, have been call upon’ to, consider  the grave problem, of peace. “and have" passe  «tions concerning the countries that have unf rtunately  entered into conflict, Fach of our countries - most  of us are, Members. of the United Nations 7 ‘has ‘al-  ready taken up ifs Position, accepted, its responsl- i  bilities, ‘What more can we do ? should we  encroach on a domain that comes, within the special  purview of the United Nationa? |, Do we really con-  sider that whenever & serious, buraing problem  comes, before the United Nations, the Specialized  Agencies should echo its pronouncements, as      I-17 PLENARY MEETINGS  though its ‘authority required’ such buttreseing ?  Ladies and gentlemen, eithér we are convinced  that our countries will take up the same position in  Unésco as at the United Nations - in which case the  Bulgarian and Czechoslovak proposal 18° supérfluous -  or else the supportèrs of this motion think that the  attitude here may be different, But, in the latter”  case, the ‘results would not, as is claiimeq, be com-  patible with ‘the deliberations of the United Nations}  on the contraty, they might well cause serious dis-  turbances within our Organization itself The Italian  delegation considérs it wise to refuse to discuss this  draft resolution, thus recognizing that the United  Nations Assembly is the ‘only body competent to deal  with problems of armed confli¢t threatening peace,  Mr. President, ‘there i another aspect of the ques-  tion that can and perhaps should be raised, and that  is its moral aspect. 1 hope you will be good cnougi:  to allow mé to mention it, bècause I could not possibly,  by my silence, seem to approve the erroneous iia,  suggested earlier, that the West bases its philosophy  of life on technology alone, while the East gives pre-  cedence to ethiés, Ethics aré universal and would be  valueless for man unless hé could use them as a  standard in all cireumstäaces.- If we wish to appeal  to the conscience of the péoples'and of their répre-  sentatives here, our appeal caniot be restricted to  one particular case. And unfortunately, besides  Israel's military action and the Frañco- British armed  intervention in Egypt, there are othér acts of war which  have stirred the whole world, roused the indignation  of the free nations, and been thie subject of delibera-  tions at the United Nations; I refer to the bloody re-  pression by the troops of the Soviet Union of the  Hungarian national revolution which was trying to do  away with a régime of tyranny and starvation,  Far be it from us, Mr. President and gentlemen,  to suggest that one mistake can be justified by another,  that oie crime can be forgiven because others have  been committed, What we wish to aftirm, and with  vigour, is that it is morally imposible to wax indig-  nant at one injustice we condemn ‘if we are not pre-  pared to react with the same indignation against every  injustice. At the present time, we ‘of Unesco cannot  remain unmoved by the cry of revolt and the appeal  voiced by the thousands of workmen, students and in-  tellectuals who are the very soul of a tortured people  ad are now proving by their blood the age-old truth  that nations can be reduced to slavery, but never die.  Dô we, as has been said, want Unesco to be the con-  scienée of thé world? So be it; but then it must be  roused by all iniquities, all oppression. Or do we  prefer to think, as the Head of my delegation declared  at the beginning of this Conference, that our work for  peace, in Unésco, is to promote education, scizice  and culture with courage. persistence and method ?  Let us hasten to put aside the dangerous temptation  held out to us in the Bulgarian and Czechoslovak draft  resolution,  It is in this spirit and for these reasons that the  Italian delegation will vote against the inélusion of  that proposal in the agenda. - And we are confirmed  in our attitude by the fact that, a moment ago, at the  suggestion of the French’ delegation, whose noble and  dignified gesture will not have passed unnoticed, we  adopted a resolution on à subject within our province,  within the fiéld of education, science and culture in
198     the tragio circumstances in which we are living.  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, let us keep  to Unesco that which is Unesco's and leave to the  United Nations that which is theirs,
(18): The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call upon the  delegate of Denmark,
(20) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark): Mr, President, |  shall be brief, because I think the only question be-  fore ua at this ‘moment is the question of the inclusion  or the non-inclusion of the draft resolution (document
8C/DR/68) in our agenda,  The only point I would like to make, without speak.  ing of the content of the draft resolution itsèlt, is the  following: if we decided to put this item on our dgends,  on what basis could wé discuss it? I think the méjo-  rity of delegations hére present would have to rely da  such information as théy have been able to get from’  newspaper articles, biased as they may be. May  remind you in that respect, fellow delegatés, that -  about a week ago, the Prime Minister of India him-  self refused to take action on a discussion of a cer-  tain subject - at that time it was a question of what  was going on in Central Europe - because his delega-  tion was not in possession of official information on  the subject,  So, if we should discuss this question here, who  would be the defender in this action before Unesco,  which would establish itself as a court'of justice with  the aim of an ultimate condemnation of three of its  Member States ? - As the delegate of Italy has just  reminded us, the whole question is now before the  "'nited Nations, and I think we are happy to know that  tne United Nations have not waited but have taken ac-  tion and are now taking action. And I think we all  agree that a question of a political nature is one which  belongs to the realm of the United Nations.  I am basing myself on these considerations,’ Mr.  President, in an effort to avoid, in thé procedural  question we are now discussing, our going into the  matter itself, as would probably be dene if we pro-  longed this discussion, Basing mysell ‘on Rule 78 ‘  of our Rules of Procedure, Mr. Presid(nt, I formally  move the closure of the debate on this question. 1°  propose we proceed to a'vote on the ques'ion put before  us on the recommendation of the General Committee.  We would then, fellow delegates, do what'is our real  task, the task of this Conference, and proceed with  our work in Committees and Commissions, hoping  by so doing that we will contribute to the long-term  alms of Unesco in this political world: namely,to  contribute to peace *,y the means assigned to Unesco  in its Constitution.
(21) The PRESIDENT (Translation): The clésure  has been moved and, according to the Rules of Pro-  cedure, Rule 76, permission to speak against the  motion may be accorded to not more than two  speakers. Does any delegation vant to speak against  the motion for closure ? 1 call upon the delegete of  Czechéslovakia.
(22) Mr. KAHUDA (Czechoslovakia){Translation  from the Russian): Mr, President, fellow delegates, -  the Czechoslovak delegation vigorously opposes thé‘ -  closure of the debate on the inclusion in the agenda   PLENARY  of the draft resolution condemning the aggression  against Egypt, The aggression against Egypt is an  extremely grave event, whose effect on.the wholr  work of our Organization we, in our General Con-  ference, see clearly, We consider it imperative to  siste Unesco's attitude to the events in Egypt, and to  weigh the conséquences which our décision on the  stion will have. . We are firmly convinced that  Unesco cannot pass over the aggression against Egypt  in silence, This follows from our Constitution,  Article I of which declares: - "The purpose of the  Organization is to contribute to peace and security by  promoting collaboration among the nations through  education; science and culture in order to further uai-  versal respect for justice, for the rule of law and for  the human rights and fundamental freedoms which are  affirmed for the peoples of the world, without distinc-  tion of race, sex, language or religion, by the Charter  of the United Nations",  The events in Egypt are manifestly at variance with  these lofty aims of our Organization. The aggression  against Egypt has, in fact, rudely disturbed peace  and security; it has created hostility and undermined  collaboration between the nations; it has violated the  basic principles of international justice and of the  rule of law, and the fundamental rights of the Egyptian  people. If we are to remain true to the noble prin-  ciples set forth in our Constitution, we are bound to  declare our attitude towards the aggression against  Egypt and to help, so far as we are able, to bring it  toanend. It ix all the more necessary for us to do  this because the attack has been made on a Member  State of our Organization, and the aggressors are -  likewise Member States, I should also remind you  that, in his statement at the meeting of the General  Conference, on 8 November, the Egyptian delegate  expressed the hope that a resolution would be submit-  ted and adopted embodying the views of the decisive  majority of delegates and of the overwhelming  majocivy of all mankind, In these circumstances, to  refuse altogether to consider the draft resolution on  the attack on Egypt ‘would be to renounce the prin- ,  ciples upon which Unesco is based.  We are convinced that the entire world community  expects our Organization, bearing in mind the prin-  ciples and aims set forth in the Constitution, to state  its attitude towards the events in Egypt clearly and  vaequivocully, and thereby to help, with the weight of  its moral prestige, to bring the aggression to an end.  It is particularly necessary that it should do so at  this moment when, notwithstanding the United Nations!  condemnation of the aggression - notwithstanding the  resolutions the United Nations has adopted - the  aggressors are still not withdrawing their forces  from Egyptian territory and are actually increasing  them; at this moment when we are confronted with a  serious danger of the aggression's continuing and  spreading.’ -  Accordingly we, -together with the Bulgarian dele-  gation, are proposing in our draft resolution that the  General Conference condemn the aggression against  Egypt, express sympathy with the Egyptian people  and call upon the United ations to take effective steps  fur the immediate withdrawal of the foreign armies  which have invaded Egyptian territory, and for the  guaranteeing of the sovereignty of Egypt and the pre-  servation of its national cultural treasures, We are
199     MEETINGS A 11-17  fully aware that this draft resolution is of a political  nature, There is no doubt, however, that Unesco's  main function laid down by the Constitution, that of  contributing to peace and security, is of a distinctly  political nature, Nor is there any doubt that educa-  tional, scientific and cultural matters > and inter-  national co-operation in those fields ~ invariably have  political aspects, and cannot be divorced from politi-  cal questions - quite apart from the fact that every.  act of aggression is a threat to the cultural treasures  of the nations.  Mr. President, fellow delegates, the General Con-  ference is not only competent but obliged, by the  principles of the Constitution, to discuss thi question  of the aggreasion in Egypt. It is a matter of urgenoy  for it to do so, The international tension created by  the aggression is not relaxing, The Egyptian people,  selflessly defending its independence and freedom, is  suffering from the consequences of the aggression,  The course of events calls for speedy action, "It is  our moral duty. to do our utmost to help to bring the  aggression against Egypt to an end at the earliest  possible moment,  The Czechoslovak delegation calls upon the General  Conference to reject the motion for the closure of the  debate, to continue the discussion and, under Rule 14  of the Rules of Procedure, to include in the agenda  consideration of the draft resolution submitted by the  delegations of Czechoslovakia and Bulgarin.
(23) The PRESIDENT (Translation): Does anyone  else wish to speak against the closure? One more  speaker only is permitted according to the Rules, 1  call upon the delegate of Syria.
(24) Mr. ABOU-RICHEH (Syria): Mr, Président,  fellow delegates, it was expected that, in this Asian  land of spirituality and philosophy, our discussions  and deliberations would be inspiréd by wisdom and  comprehensiveness. Unfortunately, we live at a  critical time and in a state of high tension. A curious  mixture of events and happenings is puliing us in  various directions by forces which we cannot control.  We do not know if this cloudy and dim atmosphere will  end in the dark night of war or herald a sunlight of  fresh hope for mankind, 1 stand on the pessimist -  side. The terrible, brutal aggression on Egypt was  beyond the expectation of peace-loving countries and  civilized peoples, Some delegates, such as the French  and Italian delegates, have already wanted us to know  that Unesco is a body devoted only to science, culture  and education, aAd is not entitled to tackle political  problems; but what use can there be in the activities  of Unesco if the very basis of man's existence is at  stake?  U..sco cannot reach its distant goal, nor  succeed in its near objectives, so long as fear para-  lyses the creative energies of the human mind, The  greatest homage we can pay to this Organization is  to use its principles; and the most striking contra-  diction of our civilization is the fundamentai reverence  for high idéals which we profess and the growing dis-  regard for them which we practise. Evil thoughts  and malicious purposes cannot go forth like wander-  ing bodies from one human mind to another, finding  unsuspected lodgement, if your principles have there  a strong defence. In condemning the action of peace  tormentors, whether in the draft resolution proposed   H-17 .  by the Czechoslovak and Bulgarian delegations, or in  a similar resolution by any other delegation, we do not  ask you, fellow delegates, to punish vice, but to  reward virtue,
(25) The PRÉSIDENT (Translation): According to  the Rules of Procedure, a vote has to be taken now on  the motion for closure, 1 call upon the delegate of  the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
(26) Mr, KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Soclalist Repub-  lies) (Translation from the Russian): Mr. President,  notwithstanding the exceptional importance of the  question under discussion, it is about to be put to the  vote without any opportunity for the delegations of a  large number of countries to express their views upon  it,
1 did not expect the proceedings to take this turn,  and 1 believe that many delegates would like to say  what they think on the subject but are being deprived  of the opportunity to do so by the procedure you have  adopted,  I ask that the question whether or not we continue  the debate be put to the vote forthwith by roll-call,  and that delegations which desire to do so be allowed  to exercise their lawful right to explain their votes,
(27) The PRESIDENT (Translation): ‘1am ‘bound by  the Rules of Procedure and, according to the Rules  of Procedure, Rule 76, it thère is à motion tor closure,  only two speakers can be allowed to’ speak’ against the  motion, and the matter has then tô be put, to the vote,  Therefore, I am guided by the Rules of Procedure,  The voté has to be taken, - There is no point of order.  As regards the question of the roll-call vote, a roll-  call can be demanded only when the result of a vote by  show of hands or by st ing is in doubt, and if it is  also requested by not less than two members, After  a vote by show of hands or by standing, therefore, it  the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics  wants a roll- call vote, he can ask for it then, At  present, the vote will be by show of hands, Will -  those who are in favour of the closure please raise  their hands ? Those who are against? Abstentions?  The result of the yoting {s as follows: in favour of  the closure: 39; against the closure: 16; abstentions; 4.  The closure motion is therefore carried. -  - There has been a demand for a roll-call vote. More  than two members have asked for a roll-call vote. We  will now proceed to the roll-call vote, The Secretary  will call each country by name and the country will  indicate its vote by saying "Yes", "No", or "Absten-  tion", as the case may be, in the appropriate language.
(28) The vote was taken by roll-call:  Voted in favour: Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil,  Union of Burma, :Canada, Chile, China, Colombia,  Cuba, Denmark, ‘Ecuador, El Salvador, Finland,  France, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece,  Guatemala, Haitt, ‘Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, Laos,  Mexico, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand,’ Nicara-  gua, Norway, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Sweden,  Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, United Kingdom,  United States of America, Venezuela, Viet-Nam;  * Voted against: Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Byelorussian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Ceylon, Czechoslovakia,
200     PLENARY MEETINGS  Egypt, Indonesia, Iran, Lebanon, Morocco, Po  Rumania, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Tunisia, Ukrainien  Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialis  Republics, Uruguay, Yugoslavis;  Abstained; Cambodia, India, Liberia, Nepal,  Pakistan, Spain; =  Absent: Austria, Bolivie, Costa Rica, Dominican  Republic, Ethiopia, Honduras, Hungary, Iraq, Jorde,  Libya, Luxembourg, Paraguay, Union of South Africa,
(29) The PRESIDENT (Translation): - The result of  the voting by roll-call is as follows: in favour of the  closure; 41; against the closure! 19; abstentions; §;  absent: 13, The motion for closure is carried,  I call upon the delegate of Egypt.
(30) Mr, AWAD MOHAMMED (Egypt)! Mr. President,  it is the first time in my Unesco life; which is nesrly  eleven years now, + that I ask for permission to ex-  plain my vote, I have never done it before; I hope 1  shall never have to do it again, +  My feeling, Mr. President, is that the desire to  close the debaté was premature.… There are many .  important poirits which I did not mention in my address,  and which I hoped would be raised by somebody else,  There is, in the first place, . the grave handicap u urder  which this General Conferencé is workingi There are  many delegations from the Middle East who are fot  represented, and I do not think that this Conference  is ‘the better because of the absence of the Egyptléa, -  the Libyan and the Jordan delègâtions, ‘who have s0  often contributed to the work of the General Conference,  In the second place, as in the first place, there is-'  something which this ‘Conference must knows - lt is  not a political question, it is part and parcel of thé  work which we are doing here,. We must be concerned,  we cannot help being concerned about the under- -:  representation of many countries of ‘Arab culture, :  The second point is, there are many projects of .  Unesco which have been severely hurt by. this. actlon  or these events in thé Middle East; projects Tike -  Sirs-el-Layyan have had to be stopped; workers from  Europe or from Western countries have had to léave  because of thé general order that they must be evacuated  The same thing has happèned to the documentation  centre, which was being run bya very active and en-  ergetic French woman, Madamé Noblecourt, who .  wrote me a touching letter saying that she is very  sorry she has to leaye her work and be evacuated  along with everybody. else, Then there is the Sclence  Co-operation Office in Cairo,- whose members hive  all had to be taken away and evacuated, Do you think  that this is not part of our work? Do you think that  we are not concernéd with our ’éétivities in the Middle  East, and when they are interrupted, we can ignore  them and say it is politics ? . Then, there ie, every  other activity -in Egypt, in particular; and‘{n other  Arab countries which I need riot enumerate, ot  But just think of one thing more.. This attack on  Egypt which was so suddèn, and so unprovokid and;  so cruel, has certainly affected the Ejyptian mind:  How long will it take for Egypt to bring itself again  to a condition of normal cultural relations with the  United Kingdom and with France? . It will take some  time. I hope it will not take very long. But there ls  an interruption of cultural co-operation between Egypt  and two countries with whom cultural co-operation is   PLENARY MEETINGS 11-17  of very old standing - extending over more than a  century, A century of cultural co-operation between  Egypt and France, and a slightly shorter period with  the United Kingdom, has been gravely interrupted and  mrt, All this, and you want to stop the debate. Does  it mean nothing to us? As a delegate to Unesco, !  can only say, Mr, President, that I am deeply dis-  appointed that even this great cultural and spiritual  tribunal refuses to give us sufficient hearing.  {31) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call upon the  delegate of Bulgaria,
(33) Mr. GUECHKOV (Bulgaria) (Translation from  the Russian): Mr, President, fellow delegates, the  delegation of the People's Républic of Bulgaria voted  sgainst the closure of the debate for the following  reasons, The delegation of the People's Republic of  Bulgaria and the delegation of the Republic of Czecho-  slovakia submitted a draft resolution demanding the  cessation of the aggression by the United Kingdom,  France and Israel against Egypt, in the profound con-  viction that it was not only the legal right but also the  high duty of Unesco's General Conference to adopt  such a resolution. .  We are influenced by the following considerations}  Unesco was established in ordér that it might, by its  activities in the field of education, science and culture,  help to strengthen peace among the nations. Article I  of the Constitution, defining the purposes of Unesco,  reads! "The purpose of the Organization is to con-  tribute to peace and security by promoting collabora-  tion among the nations through education, science and  culture in order to further universal respect for jus-  tice, for the rule of law and for the human rights and  fundamental freedoms which are affirmed for the  peoples of the world, without distinction of race, sex,  language or religion, by the Charter of the United  Nations",  It is obvious to all that the aggression by the United  Kingdom, France and Israel against Fgypt is a threat  io the peace and security of the whole world, which  Unesco has been called upon to promoté. It is obvious  to everyone that the attack upon Egypt runs counter to  Unesco's purpose, as laid down in the Constitution, of  promoting collaboration among the nations through  education, science and culture.
1t 1s obvious to all that the aggression against  Fgypt does not further universal respect for Justice,  for the rule of law and for the fundamental freedoms  which are affirmed for the peoples ôf the world, with-  out distinction of race, language or religion, by the  Charter of the United Nations, but is a violation of all  justice and ‘of the rule of law, ‘and of the sovereign’  rights of the Egyptian people.  The aggression of the United Kingdom, France aid  . Israel in Egypt has claimed thousands of human vic-  tims and Has inflicted grievous loss on the Egyptian  people which, like every vther nation, has a right to  thé fundarnental freedoms, to independence and to  sovereignty, .; :  We are coñvincéd that Unesco cannot, therefore,  overlook the act of aggression which has been com-  mitted against Egypt; it clearly follcws from the  vording of the Constitution that Unesco's action to pro-  mate collaboration among the nations in the field of  education, science and culture must be guided by the
201     general desire to prevent a new war and to maintain  and strengthen peace between {he nations - that  supreme blessing of mankind,  ‘The aggression of the United Kingdom, France and  Israel against Egypt is having extremely grievous  consequences both for the Egyptian people and for  its age-old culture, a culture precious not only to  the Egyptian people itself but to the whole of mankind,  which takes a pride in the achievements of that culture  and in the influence {t has exerted on the development  of other cultures, "  This aggression is a real danger to peace in the  Middle East and throughout the world, and a menace  to the culture of all countries, .  Such being the case, can the General Conference of  Unesco remain passive in the matter ?  The Bulgarian delegation considers that, in com-  plete conformity with the aims to which Unesco is  dedicated, the General Conference ought unanimously  to condemn the aggression against Egypt, At this  session, the programme of Unesco's activities for the  next two years is being considered, as well as im-  portant measures, such as aid in the sphere of educa-  tion, science and culture to countries in need of sich  aid, including Egypt; activities calculated to draw  East and West together; and yet other activities  designed to raise the cultural level of peoples and to  further the common cause of education and science  throughout the world.  But what will be the fate of these activities, if the  aggression in Egypt Is allowed to continue, and with  it the danger of a new world war,  If we want to carry out our activities, we must  strive with all our might to bring the aggression in  Egypt really to an end, to secure strict respect for  the independence and sovereignty of the Egyptian  State, and to avert the danger of a new world war,  In their statements on the Director-General's re-  port many delegates have condemned the aggression  against Egypt. This was no mere chance, The whole  international community has condemned the military  operations of the United Kingdom, France and Israel  in Egypt.  The Bulgarian National Assembly ‘and the proletariat  of the People's Republic of Bulgaria have made de-  clarations condemning the armed aggression against  the Egyptian Republic, That was why the Bulgarian  “ delegation submitted its draft resolution, which we  believe, reflects the longing of the world community  for the re-establishment of peace.  Since we submitted our draft resolution concerning  the acts of aggression by the United Kingdom, France  and Israel against Egypt, the position in Egypt has  continued to cause serious alarm. - Instead of the  withdrawal of the forces of the United Kingdom, France  ard Israel from Egyptian territory,- in compliance  with the United Nations! resoluticn, the concentration  of those countries! forces on Egyptian territory is  continuing - which not only aggravates the situation  but constitutes a menace to.the cause of peace, tite  preservation of which is inseparably bound up with  the fulfilment of the functions of Unesco.  In these ¢ircumstances, the contention that it 1s  not beyond Unesco's terms of reference to discuss  the proposal we have submitted reflects the desire to  facilitate the performance of the sacred duties in-  cumbent upon the Members of Unesco.
0-17 PLENARY  That was why the People's Republic of Bulgaria  voted against the closure of the debate,
(33) The PRESIDENT (Translation):- The motion for  the closure has been carried, and therefore I feel  that there is no occasion for calling any further  speakers, ' If any member wishes to explain his vote,  I shall be very grateful if he will confine himself to  a brie! statement, I call upon the delegate of Uruguay.
(34) Mr. SECCO ELLAURI (osier) ITs endian from  the Spanish);Mr, President, fellow delegates, our dele-  gation voted against the clésure motiohi; although we were  also opposed to thé subject-matter iindér discussion,  that is, to the motion which had béen presented,  We are not iri favour of the closure, because we feel  that this subject is of such importance that no delegate who  wishes to deal with it should be prevented from : speaking  his mind as his conscience dictates, Furthermore, } hav-  ing considérable confidence iri the possibility ot defeating  the motion, we feel that we have been robbed of the satis-  faction of defeating it in straightforward debate, and that,  moreover, certain possible ways of dealing with the pro-  blem which hight have been submitted for the Confer-  ence's consideration have been ruled oùf.  These are the reasons for “our attitude, which re-  lated solely to procedure, in voting against what we  consider to bè the premature closure of the debate.  In’my opinion, however, Mr, President, now that  the debate has been closed, delegates are ‘entitled to  express their views withoit cbserving the time-limit  to which you réferred,- the only reason for which must  be that the hour is late and the time for luncheon  approaching. No other reason could be put forward  for making such a recommendation after the closure  of the debate, and thus perhaps obliging a delegation -  ours, for exampié - which voted against the majority  opinion of the Conference, but nevertheless agreed,  as to substance; with that majority view, to cut short  the comments or ideas which it wishes to put before  the assembly, I do hot think this is right, and con-  sequently, with apologies to the President, I shall  take the liberty of continuing to speak.  We were opposed to the substance of the motion for  the following fundamental reasons. Firstly, the  manifest incompetence of this Conference to deal with  the matter: competerice to discuss political subjects  is vested in our parent institution, the United Nations,  which,‘ as we know, has already taken action to prevent  further trouble, Secondly, the United Nations posses-  ses not only the authority, but also appropriate tech-  nical means of exercising that authority, together with  full and exhaustive information which we ourselves  lack; and it knows what it wants because delegates  to the United Nations come armed with definite in-  structions from their governments. We have none of  these elements required for the sound, honest and  responsible exercise of authority and, above all, we  lack the last of those requisites - we have no instruc-  tions from our governments, at least no definite,  specific instructions; soma of us have such instruc-  tions, but many have not, and it is inconceivable that  delegates should ast in ore way, on instructions, in  the United Nations, and in another way, without instyuc-.  tions, at their own discretion' as it were, in Unesco.
1 do not; however, agree with those who consider  that Unesco should avoid like the plague any inter-  ference in certain political matters of world interest.
202     MEETINGS  It 18 true that our mission is to work for peace by ini  fluencing the minds of mén, and that truth has been  EN A stated here; but it is not the entire truth,  s a beautiful truth, but an incomplete one - like  the Venus of Milo; beautiful but mutilated - because  wars do not come about solély in the minds of men;  they come about for the winning of power, the pro-  tection of economic interests, pursuit of a prestige  policy, and for many other reasons,  It is only to be expected that, in the long run, the  policy we patient beavers are pursuing in our efforts  to erect barriers against war in the minds of men  will lead to the establishinent of peace, But it is  a long-term policy, and ore which demands from un  true passion, in the guise of patience.  Well, gentlemen, it is perhaps possible to main-  tain, if we shut ourselves up in the ivory tower men-  tioned by earlier speakers, that the world situation  does not endanger the heritage which has been en-  trusted to the protection of Unesco - the heritage of  human rights; It may be that those rights have not  been and are not being endangered id various parts  of the world, It is possible that when that heritage,  which we regard as a tréasure, is in danger, Unesco  need not express an opinion; Here, gentlemen, we  are absolutely and radically opposed. to the motion  put forward, for it dedls with only one aspect of the  situation, and thus constitutes an example of political  discrimination against which our minds revolt.  When we speak of human rights being endangered,  we of course have in mind the Middle East, but we  must also have in mind Hungary, the Hungarian  people, on whose behaif there has been no .one to speak in  this assembly with the heartfelt eloquence of one who feels  for the fate of his own people - that eloquence which flowed  from the lips of cur colleague Awad,  Thus we have another case for which no alarm is  sounded, as though Unesco, split into two, were  sensitive to its fingertips regarding one side of the  world, but discreetly averted its eyes when confronted  with events taking place in different latitudes,  We not only condemn what is happening in Hungary,  equally with what is happening in the Middle East;  we also condemn those aggressive policies which are  sometimes the prelude to actual aggression, And  we repudiate the warlike spirit which is fostered  on the outskirts of our peaceful institutions and of  the regular channels provided by the United Nations,  For all these reasons we should have been glad of  a frank, open discussion, with a perfectly free play  of opinion on the subject, so that the scope of the  rnotions submitted could be extended. That was why  we voted against the closure of the discussion and  that is also why I am now exercising a right a  posteriori - a posthumous right, so to say, but one  which I cannot surrender - to make a full statement  on the position of the Uruguayan delegation,  Fellow delegates, we would never have agreed | to  discriminatory action by Unesco, taking up one of  the world's problems and keeping silent about others;  and we are therefore prepared to return to the dis-  cussion if a motion is presented to deal with every  aspect of the problem,  I apologize to the President for baving exceeded  the time allotted to me.  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m,