COMMITTER ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES  guidance concerning projects that did not appear to  evoke much response in Member States.
(10) Referring to the suggestions regarding working  parties made by Mr. Maheu, Mr, PEIRIS (Ceylon)  proposed that two such working parties be established  by the Committee.
(11) That proposal was seconded and adopted  unanimously.
(12) Mr, MAHEU (Representative ‘of the Director-  General) proposed that the terms of reference of the  working parties be fixed, The first might be  instructed to study the sections of the prograinme  coming under the programme Departments proper;  the second, questions relating to mass communication  and public relations and matters comected with the  establishment of standards. Membership of one  working party should not be a bar to membership of  the other; delegations which so desired, and which  had the means to do so, could be represented on both.  Agreed,
(13) Mr; BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) asked  the Chairman to remind delegations attending the  Conference that, under the Rules of Procedure, they  could send cbeervers to any working parties on which  they were not represented.
(14) The proposal, seconded by Mr. McCULLOUGH  (United States of America) and Mr. UNAKOV (Union    Xx-3  of Soviet Socialist Republics), was unanimously adopted.  {18} Mr, McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  pointed out that, as-it was impossible for the -  .Committes to examine all the prajects covered in the  Director-General's report, it would be necessary to  consider how the necessary selection of activities to  be examined would be made. . He suggested that all --  members be asked to consider that problem and to  list those projects which they felt should receive the  special attention of the Committee. Tha final  selection of projects to be examined by the Committee  could then be made from the proposals submitted.
(16) Mr, PEIRIS (Ceylon) agreed with that procedure,  provided that all members retained the right to spesk  on any project which they considered to be important,  whether included in the selected list or not.
(17 Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) agreed  that it would be well to consider the problem, but  proposed that the two working parties should begin, .  that afternoon, to discuss two questions which all  were bound fo agree merited study - the establishment  of standards and the main features of Member States’  collaboration. It would then be possible to suggest a  provisional list of items to be referred to each of the  working parties by the following marning.
(18) That suggestion was seconded by Mr. PEIRIS  {Ceylon) and adopted.  The meeting rose at noon.  THIRD MEETING
31 October 1956, at 3.45 p.m.  Chairman; Mr. ZIEGLER (Austria)
(1) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Committee had  agreed in the morning to set up two working parties  to study the implementation of Uneaco's programme,  The first working party would deal with pages 5 to 22  of document 9C/4, Annex III; the second would start  with Mass Communication on page 22.
(3) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  offered to serve on Working Party No. 2.
(3) Mr, PEIRIS (Ceylon) expressed a preference for  Working Party No. 1, as did Mr. KAN TIOURN  (Cambodia), Mr. TOTH (Hungary), Mr. MASHAYEKH  FARIDANI (Ixau) and Mr. KIM (Korea).  {4) Mr. UNAKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  also wished to serve on Working Party No. 1.  However, since only one member was interested in
717  Working Party No. 2, he suggested that it would be  preferable to examine certain questions in plenary  meeting.
(5) The CHAIRMAN thought the suggestion of the |  Soviet delegate was very interesting, but he feared  that it would involve organizational difficulties.
(6) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) thought that it would be better not-to set up  working parties but to begin the discussion of the  questions ‘the Committee had to consider.
(1 Mr. BRUNSVICK (France), ‘who would algo have  preferred to serve on Working Party No. 1, was  prepared to accept Mr. Maheu's suggestion,
(8) The CHAIRMAN suggested cancelling the   X-3  Committee's morning decision and dealing with its  work in plenary meetings unless really great diffi-  culties occurred. He asked for comments on the  general characteristics and features of the co-  operation between Unesco and its Member States.  ITEM 17.1 OF THE AGENDA: CONSIDERATION OF REPORTS  PRESENTED BY MEMBER STATES FOR THE YEARS 1934 AND
1953 AND OF THE DIRECTOR-GENKRAL'S STUDY OF THOSE  REPORTS (documents §¢°/4 and Annexes I, Il and III
(9) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  said he had no definite proposals to make at that time.  He recalled briefly the work the Committee had done  at Montevideo éïid said he felt greatly encouraged by  the material ‘on hand, - He noted a considerable  improvement in the reports of Member States as to  form, fullness and contenté, but there was still some  disparity between some of them. It seemed obvious  to him that certain Member States needed more  precise guidance, i,¢. an improved description of the  reports, and the Committee might perhaps examine  that possibility, ‘Mr, McCullough thought it very  interesting that 83 per cent of Asian States had sent  in reports wheréas only 46 per cent of Western  States had done so. It appeared that the Western  States needed some encouragement.  The Director-General's analysis - document 9C/4,  Annex III - was objective and careful, but he did not  think it was sufficiently critical to put pressure on  certain States. The Committee might suggest to the  Conference some form of reporting which would  conform more closely to the programme, the  Director -Generdl's report and his analysis.  The degree and quality of Member States’ collabo-  ration with Unesco were proportional to the response  given to the Director-General! s requests, to the  activity of the National Commissions, and to the  action taken by Member States to carry out the  conventions they had ratified. Mr. McCullough  thought a major impediment to progress in that field  was the lack of a National Commission, of sufficient  governmental support, or of both. A powerful  stimulus was the holding of conferences in a given  country, but invitations to meetings, and visits by  members of Unesco's staff, were also very important.  Strengthening National Commissions and giving them  more encouragement was perhaps the best means of  obtaining the desired result. With regard to the  translation of great works, and their diffusion,  Mr. McCullough thought there was no evidence that  some Member States were doing anything to get them  into readers’ hands.
(10) The CHAIRMAN thanked the representative of the  United States of America and called for further  comments.  {11) Mr. PEIRIS (Ceylon) also thanked Mr.  McCullough for his remarks. He had not yet fully  studied the documents but he feit sure that most  governments were anxious to participate in Unesco's  work, He pointed out that some countries were  denied the benefit of the help of non-governmental  organizations because no associations were affiliated  with the National Commissions. Mr. Peiris  associnted himself with the suggestion that  COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER
18  STATES  governments would be stimulated by more frequent  seminars, conferences and visits of staff members,
(12) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) agreed with the  delegate of the United States of America that the  reports of Member States gave evidence of more  active collaboration with Unesco, especially with  regard to the Technical Assistance and direct aid  programmes. That collaboration hed even led  certain governments to improve their own system of  administration. It was essential, however, that the  growing interest of Member States in the items of  Unesco's programme which concerned them directly  should be matched by an increased effort on their  part to develop a true spirit of collaboration on the  international plane, .  Referring to the Ceylonese delegate's desire for  more regional conferences and seminars,  Mr. Brunsvick pointed out that a large number of  such meetings had taken place in the main cultural  regions of the world during the past two years. While  there was every reason for satiataction on that point,  it was necessary to urge that such regional confer-  ences should be organized as an item in effective  collaboration among the verious cultural regions, as  had been the case at the meetings in Tokyo, organized  by the Japanese National Commission, and Aix-en-  Provence, organized by the French National  Commission,  Referring to the difficulties thut arose from the  inadequacy or total lack of National Commissions in  certain countries, Mr. Brunavick said that the  Conference adopted Unesco's programme without  taking into account the means available to Member  States for its execution, and that the work plan was  designed entirely for the convenience of the  Secretariat, To counteract that disadvantage, the  delegate of France thought that, on the one hand,  Member States should make a selection among the  resolutions sent them by the Secretariat, and on the  other, in order to give real help to Member States,  they should be sent, if not a full-scale work plan, at  least some suggestions for action.  The question of the translation of representative  works raised by the delegate of the United States of  America, which brought up serious problems, should,  in Mr, Brunsvick's opinion, be examined again at a  later date.  Finally, it would be advisable to correlate the next  report on the work of Member States with the  Director-General's report, by having them all cover  the same years,
(13) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that, on 1 April, only  four reports had reached the Secretariat; that led him  to suggest that more leeway might perhaps be given  to Member States for the production of reports, which  would then come in on time and be more comprehensive.
(14) Mr, MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General), replying to the French delegate's last  remark, and to that of the Chairnian on the question of  the dates set for the submissign of Member States‘  reports, said that it was impossible, for practical  reascns, to present to the General Conference a  report on the work of Member States during the  current year, while the Director-General's report      COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMPER STATES  could deal with the current year, - To make the work of  Member States easier, the Secretariat would let  governments know thie final dates for the subinission of  their reports earlier, for instance by 1 January.  Vith regard to the élaboration of à work plan for -  Member States, Mr, Maheu thought that the Conference  might invite the Director-General to suggest certain  types of methods of operation, applicable to certain  categories of countries, for the execution of a few  resolutions, The experiment might be tried with about  ten resolutions and the Director-General would be  asked to report on the results at the next session of  the Conference. ;  Mr, Maheu thought that the Committee's report  might refer to some resolutions which had received  attention from many Member States and to certain  others that had evoked no constructive response. The  example of the project on the dissemination of trans-  lations of representative works was of special interest  in that respect, as it tended to show that, in certain  countries, quick results were not to be expected. But  it chould not be forgotten that it was Unesco's business,  in certain cases, to carry out difficult experiments  which private agencies would not be able to undertake.
(15) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) also thought that it  was unwarranted to give up a project because it  appeared to be difficult of realization. The progress  made in France in the circulation of the "Courier"  showed what could be achieved by improved methods.
(16) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  thanked the representative of France and Mr. Maheu  for their response to his remarks, He agreed with  the former that Unesco should not avoid difficult tasks,  and assured Mr. Maheu that his reference to the great  works was only an example of something the  Programme Commission could deal with, He fully  agreed on the importance of preparing the plan of  action, suggested by the Directcr-General, to help  Member States to see how they might tackle the work.  He felt sure the Member States would be greatly helped  by receiving the Secretariat's thoughts on programme  matters.  Chapter 1 - Education
(17) The CHAIRMAN suggested taking up section  B.II.1.4 of document 9C/4, Annex (IL and asked for  comments.
4. Education for International Understanding  and Co-operation
(18) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) thought that the  meagre information to be found in Member States‘  reports concerning education for international under-  standing and co-operation raised an important problem.  The gap-was probably due to the fact that there was no  special project on that aspect of the programme, and  it would be well for the Programme Commission to  formulate a definite resolution on the question.
(19) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  said he was glad to have a discussion of that section  of the document, which was meagrely treated in the  reports and needed more emphasis, However, he
18     X-3  would not like it to appear that it had been singled out,  In his opinion, the Committee should stress the  elements of the programme dealing with assistance to  Member States for the development of schools, of :  teacher training, and à fupdamerital education. - The  precise course of action ti; be adoptéd should,  however, be left to the Programme Commission, -  The difficulties encountered in the United States of  America were mainly due to the great breadth of the  subject and to the decentralized school system; most  schools adopted their own methods of implementing  the decisions of the Conference, Perbaps the  Programme Commission might be persuaded to  discuss what exactly it wanted Member States to do.  Mr. McCullough warmly supported Mr. Maheu's  suggestion of a work plan for the guidance of Member  States.
(20) Mr, UNAKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republica)  agreed that the question of education for international  understanding and co-operation should rank among the  most important. Although the National Commission  of the Soviet Union had come into existence only in
1055, it had already taken a large number of measures  for the establishment of the necessary collaboration  with Unesco, and it attached great importance to  educational problems. .  Mr, Unakov thought that, in order {o facilitate th  work of the Programme Commission and to enable it  to study concrete proposals, it was important for the  Committee to have an exchange of views on section  B.I1.1.4 of document 9C/4 Annex III, In the Sovist  Union, the organization of educational centres, the  exchange of pupils, the production of new textbooks,  and the teaching of subjects with a bearing on inter-  national co-operation had already laid the foundations  for the education of a whole generation in a spirit of  international understanding and co-operation.
(21) Mr. PEIRIS (Ceylon) heartily endorsed the  importance of promoting education for international  understanding, and agreed that the field was a large  one. Many countries contributed to it by means of  studies of the United Nations Charter in schools, by  the exchange of students, and fellowships. He  supported the recommendation to request the  Programme Commission for specific directives on  implementation.
(22) Miss YIM (Korea), speaking on behalf of her  country's chief delegate, expressed her thanks to  Unesco for the work it had done in Korea, whose  people were dzeply interested in the Organization,  Adult community education had been started under the  aegis of Unesco, but mare help for the schools was  needed as well as more information concerning the  programme.
(23) Mr. PEIRIS (Ceylon) explained that the lack of  information on the work done in the Asia and South  Pacific region, referred to by the Chairman, was due  to the breadth of the field and to the lack of specific  directives.
(24) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) thought  that, in its report, the Committee should limit itself  to pointing out the gaps that had been noted in the   X-4  reports of Member States and suggesting how the  execution of the programms resolutions could be  promoted in each country. The delegate of France  suggested that possible methods would be to improve  the presentation of the programme, and to have the  Director-General suggest certain kinds of activities  to Member States,  Mr, Brunsvick wished to know whether the  Committee agreed that the positive aspects of the work  done by Member States, showing their efforts to  establish healthy international collaboration, should  be stressed under ‘Education’ in the report.
(25) The Rapporteur's proposal was adopted  unanimously.
(26) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  did not wish the Committee to substitute itself for the  Programme Commission, but he felt that, in view of  the weakreas of the reports, it should point out to  the Commission that the Eastern and Western cultures  project afforded an excéllent opportunity for the  advancement of the work covered by section B,II.1.4   of the document.  FOURTH  COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES  Chapter 2 - Natural Sciences
(27) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  suggested starting with section 2 of that chapter  (Contribution to Scientific Research), which most  Member States' reports dealt with very fully.
(28) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) thought it would be  better for :3e Committee to discuss section 3, dealing  with the teaching and dissemination of acience, in  order to evaluate the results achieved in that field.
(29) Mr, McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  accepted thé French delegate's proposal to start the  discussion with section 3 of chapter 2.
(30) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) thought it well to mention the importance of  the part taken by Member States in scientific research,
(31) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  proposed that the meeting adjourn end take up the mat-  ter an the first item of the morning's business.  The meeting rose at 5.50 p.m,  MEETING
1 November 1956, at 10,30 a.m,  Chairman: Mr. ZIEGLER (Austria)  ITEM 17.1 OF THE AGFNLA: CONSIDERATION OF REPORTS  PRESENTED BY MEMBFR STATES FOR THE YEARS 1954 AND
1933 AND OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL'S STUDY GF THOSE  REPORTS (continued) (documents 9C/4 and Annexes I, Il and DT)
(1) The CHAIRMAN announced that examination of  document 9C/4, Annex IL - Analysis of and  Observations on Reports of Member States - would  continue.  Chapter 2 - Natural Sciences (continued)
2. Contribution to Scientific Research
(2) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said his  Government found the section particularly interesting,  since the extent of the response of Member States was  indicative of their active interest in Unesco's work  in the field of scientific research. Many Member  States recognized the relationship between the dave-  lopment of scientific research and their educational  and technical problems. He had also noted the  interest shown by a large number of European  countries in the promotion of scientific research in  those areas in which such research had not previously  been greatly developed, and in projects for international
720     co-operation in scientific research, He felt that the  Committee should draw the attention of the  Programme Commission to the considerable interest  shown in that section of the natural sciences  programme.
(3) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) said that, on rereading  the parts of the reports of Member States dealing with  scientific research, he had gained the impression that  most Member States were more interested in the  problem of equipment than in missions of experts.  He felt, therefore, thet the Committee's recommenda-  tions should lay special emphasis on the need for  adequate equipment.
(4) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) had the impression that a number of Member  States had stressed the usefulness of equipment,  without however contrasting its value with that of  experts; the suggestion had rather been that the  sending of experts could not produce good resulte  unless there were also suitable equipment.
(5) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) agreed with Mr.  Maheu's interpretation, He felt that the point to be  made was that the question of equipment should not be