ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  FOURTEENTH MEETING
20 November 1956, at 3.30 p.m,  Chairman; Mr. DAVIES (Australie)  ITEM 16 OF THE AGENDA: QUESTIONS CONCERNING THE  HEADQUARTERS OF UNESCO, REPORT OF THE HEADQUARTERS  COMMITTEE (continued) (document 9C/ ADM/ 20)  V1. Artistic decoration of the Headquarters  building (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN recalled that, on the previous  Friday, thé Commiesion had discusced the additional  sum of $70,000 required to complete the décoration of  the building (paragraph'46). Although the Commission  had in fact already approved that sum, since if formed  part of the amount approved to cover the $1,000,000  deficit incurred on building costs, the delegate of the  United Kingdom had requested that the substance of  the question be considered by the Commission and  that section VI of the report be submitted to it for  approval.
(2) Mrs, PARONETTO VALIER (Italy) asserted that  the additional sum of $70,000 already covered by the  $1,000,000 approved by the Commission was justified  and there was no need to resort to subterfuge in  order to obtain it. The Commission should shoulder  its responsibilities and give its formal approval. In  reality, considering the austere architectural  character of the building and its special features, the  estimate for decoration, based on the usual 2 per cent  rate as for an ordinary building, was extrémely amall.  The small number of works of art provided for  repregented a minimum that could not be further  reduced. Excessive austerity was liable to result in  an impression of utilitarianism. The Italian  delegation was opposed to any cut in the sum allocated  for decoration.
(3) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) was  surprised that discussion should have been reopened  on such a small sum. While the Commission was  certainly entitled to discuss the terms of reference  and responsibilities of the Committee of Art  Advigers, there was no need for it to dwell on the .  financial aspect of the question as the Committee hud  clearly expressed its opinion on the need for the  above-mentioned sum. He suggested that, to set ‘at  rest the fears of certain delegations, the Director-  General might enlarge the Committee a little, %o  ensure that the various tendencies of modern art were  better represented.
(4) The CHAIRMAN explained that the delegate of the  United Kingdom had understood that the sum of .  $70,000 referred to in paragraph 11 on page 3 of the  report would be discussed under section VI, and he  had therefore not asked to speak during the discussion  ‘On section III, The Chairman had assumed  that the Commission would not object to the
597  proposal to discuss and vote on section VI.
(5) Commenting on the proposal to increase the  memberahip of the Committee of Art Advisers, the  DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that, as the represent-  ation of various artistic trends on the Committee was  a technical matter, it should be referred to the  Headquarters Committee.
(6) At the CHAIRMAN's suggestion, it was agreed to  include the question in the agenda of the next session  of the Headquarters Committee,
(7) Mr, CAMPBELL (New Zealand) recalled that the  delegate of Canada had raised an important point of  principle, namely, whether, quite apart {rom the  question of economy, it would not be better for the  artistic decoration of the building to be spread over  several years, so as to reflect artistic modes of the  era, Mr. Campbell thought it important that the  Commission discuss that point.
(8) Mr. JOCHAMOWITZ (Peru) said that he approved  the sum requested for the execution of the decoration  of the Headquarters building and hoped that it would  be sufficient to preclude the possibility of saying that  the quality of the work was bad because there was not  enough money available. He also supported  Mr. Carneiro's proposal and hoped that it would be  accepted, as the Committee would be able to work  more easily and more efficiently if ita membership  were increased.  He urged that, if possible, an exhibition of the  maquettes submitted by the artists be held in Paris,  so that delegates would be able to study them and the  various Member States might know what was to be  done.
(9) Replying to the delegate of New Zealand, the  DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that he had no firm views  on the question; he assumed that, as decades passed,  it might prove desirable to continue certain items of  decoration or, in other cases; to proceed with redec-  oration, in order to keep the building in touch with  new developments in the artistic field, "It was some-  what difficult to ennure a balance between the various  artistic trends, since practically all the remaining  decoration was confined to the seventh floor. |  With regard to the money involved, the Director-  General agréed with the delegate of the United  Kingdom that, although the sum of $1,000,000 had  already been approved to cover the deficit, the  Commission should take a sepsrete vote on the whole  of section VI; if it were not approved, he could  simply save the sum of $70,000. As for giving a  preview, he was not in a position to do that; the  matter should be referred to the approp:iate experts,   v-14  i,e. the Committee of Ait Advisers, So far, that  Committee had merely recommended thaÿ the °  additional $70,000 be used to give new and younger  artists a chance to make their contribution to the  building. He did not think that it would be appropriate  for the General Conference to attempt to define  specific types of decoration to be incorporated in the  building - that was a matter that should be left to the  experts.
(10) Mr, PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela) (Chairman of  the Headquarters Committee) said that there were two  aspects of the problem being discussed, The first was  that raised by the Peruvian representative in speaking  against certain tendencies in art which he believed  were predotuinant on the Committee of Art Advisers.  Mr. Parra-Perez had already explained that the  Committee consisted of representatives of various  tendencies, who were trying to reconcile all modern  creative trends so as to avoid making the decoration  a mere cross-section of contemporary art, not really  representing any trend because it misrepresented all,  He stated that the Brazilian representative's pro-  posal was acceptable to the Director-General and that  there was nothing to prevent the Headquarters  Committee's examining the question of enlarging the  Committee of Art Advisers, He had r.oted the point  and would follow up the proposal,  The other aspect of the problem was whether  approval should be given at the moment for the allo-  cation of the additional sum of $70,000 asked for by  the Committee of Art Advisers, The ‘Commission  should pronounce in favour of that request, wiiich had  already been discussed at meetings of the Head-  quarters Committee and the Committee of Art -  Advisers. Unless the ‘incréase was approved, it  would be impossible to recommend a réally suitable  scheme of decoration to the Director-Gensral.  The maquettes had already been exhibited in one  of the rooms at the Place Fontenoy and any delegate  who wighed could see them. Moreover, the Commit-  tee of Art Advisers had no objection to receiving  delegates and explaining the models, as they had done  with the Mexican delegate, who had attended the first  meetings of the Committee and given his views, which  had been, to some extent, accepted. The Committee  was at everyone's disposal and wanted to be consulted.
(11) Section VI of document 8C/ADM/20 was put to  the vote and approved by 40 votes to 1, with 2  abstentions.  VII, Income from rental of office space and  Conference facilities (document 9C/ADM/20,  paragraph 48, and document 8C/ADM/13)
(12) -Mr. - MONTAGNIER (Chief, Bureau of Conference  Planning and Général Services) explained that such  income would come from two sources: (a) the rental  of offices occupied by permanent delegations, and  (b) the rental of Conference facilities,  With regard to the first itém, the Headquarters  Committee had suggested that rents be calculated on  the basis of those payable for similar accommodation  in the same district of Paris. The first estimates  submitted to the 21st meeting of the Headquarters  Committee, based on the applications received from
23 delegations, amounted to roughly $156,000 a year,  Under the same heading, an income of some $31,300  a year could be expecied when delegations occupied
50 additional offices. The Committee would also have  to consider whether, before the four floors of the  third building were entirely taken up by the Secret-  ariat and delegations, it would not be possible to let  offices to other bodies, which would mean additional  income,  With regard to the use of the Conference building,  Mr, Montagnier said that the Secretariat had already  received a large mumber of requests, because of the  scarcity of conference premises in Paris, ° So far,  facilities in the Avènue Kléber building had been  rented only to international non-governmental organi-  zations. It would be well for the next meeting of the  Headquarters Committee to discuss the prine e to  be followed in the letting of conference rooms and to  decide on the possibility of making them available to  national or international organizations which did not  co-operate directly with Unesco, in order to advise  the Director-General on the possible application of  resolution C (document 9C/ADM/20, page 13). .  He added that-the rents for conference halls ‘would  include a fixed sum to cover the amortisation of  building and equipment costs, the repayment of the  overheads for their use, and any staff costs incurred  by Unesco in connexion with the meetings concerned,  A rate would be calculated for each hall. The 1957-
1958 budget did not provide for the use of conference  halls for any meetings other than those convened by  Unesco. The Director-General was therefore asking  the Conference for the authorizations referred to in  paragraph 6 of document 8C/ADM/13.
(13) Mr. TRUEBLOOD (United States of America)  recalling that the Headquarters Committee had been  somewhat perturbed by the problem of arrzars i1 the  payment of rent, asked how the Secretariat proposed  to guard against that contingency in the future.
(14) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Chief, Bureau of Conference  Planning and General Services) hoped that the diffi-  culty referred to would no longer arise in the future,  and added that the two or three Member States which  were behind in their payments had paid their arrears.
(16) Referring to the figures for rental charges  quoted by Mr, Montagnier, the DIRECTOR-GENERAL  hoped that they would not be fixed rigidly by the  General Conference, but kept as flexible as possible,  so that account could be taken of current prices in  Paris.
(16) The draft resclution on page 2 of document
9C/ADM/13 was adopted unanimously.  VII. Draft resolutions
(17) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, pointing out that  any future increases in wages and prices would be  mare likely to affect the third building than those  already being constructed, suggested that the clause  governing the withdrawal of $500,000 from the  Working Capital Fund to meet unforeseen and  unavoidable increases in expenditure be inserted after  resolutions A.I and B, thus being applicable to both.   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  To dispel misgivings regarding the frequency of  meetings of the Headquarters Committee, the  Director-General stated that, since the General Con-  ference had voted for the third building, he intended  to convene the Committee at least twice between the  current session of the General Conference and the end  of 1957. :
(18) Mr, MUNRO (Australia) was disturbed by the  Director-General's proposal, as it seemed to imply  that the sum of $930,000, set as a ceiling for the  construction of the third building, would not be  sufficient, He pointed out that the Commission had  approved the construction of the third building on the  clear understanding that the total cost would not  exceed $030,000,  (to) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL observed that the  whole point of the Working Capital Fund withdrawal  provision was that the Secretariat could not estimate  possible future increases in wages and prices accu-  rately. Such increases would be most harmful to the  third building, since its construction had not yet been  started. If wages and prices increased abnormally  within the next year or so and the Director-General  had no authority to draw on the Working Capital Fund,  he would be obliged to suspend the construction of that  building, pending a decision by the General Conference  at its tenth session in 1958. He emphasized that it  was only a question of safeguarding the third building,  and that à 2 $500,000 might not be used fully, or  indeed at all.
(20) Mr. Nguyen-QUANG-TRINH (Viet-Nam) reverted  to the question of the frequency of meetings of the  Headquarters Committee. A number of delegations  had been uneasy because the Committee had met  seldom in spite of the serious problem to be faced due  to the continual rise in prices and the increased  deficit. His delegation would propose that the rules of  procedure of the Headquarters Committee be amended
80 as to give it the initiative, enabling the Director-  General to convene it at the request of half its  members,
(21) Mr. CABOUAT (Frañçe) ssid that he had - |  originally seen no objection to transferring resolution -  A II (in docwinent 9C/ADM/20, page 12) and placing it  after resolution B (page 13), in order that the possi-  bility of drawing on the Working Capital Fund might  epply to both buildings. But a study of Annex II of  the same document showed that the total for B was  calculated as at 31 August 1956 and that a contingency  fund was expressly mentioned in item XII. K was to  be assumed that that contingency fund was designed  to cover increases after the above date. Mr. Cabouat  asked how the Director-General justified his latest  proposal in spite of the existence of the contingency  fund. While the French delegation did not, in prin-  ciple, object to meeting the Director-General's  wishes with regard to the Working Capital Fund, it  would like some explanation from him about the  contingency fund.
(22) In reply to the delegate of France, the DIRECTOR-  GENERAL pointed out that the original reserve of 10  per cent provided by the Headquarters Committee was
599     v-14  likely to prove insufficient, since it had been decided  to construct & third building which would not be .  completed before the spring of 1956. That was why  he hoped that the Cunferenés “vould give him authority  to draw on the Working Capital Fund to meet unfore-  seen increases in wages and prices, not only in.  connexion with the first two buildings, but also in  connexion with the third building. … -  In reply to the delegate of Viet-Nam, the Director-  General recalléd his earlier remarks, firstly that he  was always ready to call the Headquarters Committee  at the request of its Chairman and, secondly, that he  intended to convene it at least twice before the end of
(23) The CHAIRMAN added, for the information of the  delegate of Viet-Nam, that the Headquarters Commit-  tée had no rules of procedure of its own, but followed  those of the General Conference.
(24) Mr. Nguyen-QUANG-TRINH (Viat-Nem) now  understood why he had looked for the rules of proce-  dure of the Headquarters Committee iri vain; He  accepted the assurance given by the Director-General,  however, and hoped that there would be no difficulty  about convening the Committee whenever a majority  of its members considered it necessary.
(25) In reply to à question from Mr. AHMED  (Pakistan), thé CHAIRMAN confirmed that, according  to the Director-General' s propotal, the whole of  section À II of the draft resolution would be applicable  to parts A.l and B.
(26) Mr. MUNRO (Australia) expressed further  misgivings at the Director-General's statement that  it was impossible to calculate the provision of  $500,000 from the Working Capital Fund on a firm  basis.
(27) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that, when  work on the original project had been started, a  considerable amount of money had been held in  reserve, but the réserves thei provided had proved  unrealistic #8 a result of increases in'wages and  prices. His fear was that further increases would  slso prove the 10 per cent reserve to be unrealistic  and that, uiless authorized to draw on the Working  Capital Furd, he might be obliged to suspend the con-  struction of the third building for several months,  pending the tenth session of the General Conference.
(28) Mr. CABOUAT (France) reiterated that, in the  opinion of his delegation, all the sums condérried  were to be considered as maxima. He understood  the explanation given by thé Director-General with  regard to thé 10 per cent reserve, snd recognized the  possibility that the risen might exceed that 10 per.  cent. He suggested that a compromise solution might  be acceptable to the Australian delegation. Such a  solution would consist in placing thé resolution con-  cerning the Working Capital Fund after resolutions  A and B, and of amending peragreph (2) of document
9C/ADM/PROV/3 by inserting after the words  ",... completion of the work", ‘he phrase which  could not be covered by the normal appropristicas”..  Sub-paragraph (i) of the same parsgraph would also   V-14  have to be amended to read "by the preceding  resolutions A and Bh.
(29) Mr, SUNDARAM (radia) remarked that it was  precisely for the reasons given by the Director-  General in support of his request for a larger reserve  that the Indian delegation had opposed the construction  of a third building: It wes now evident that those who  had voted in favour of it had been misled, for they had  been told that, as contractors would be prepared to |  continue work on the same basis, it was possible to  give a firm estimate for the third building, The  Director-General admitted, however, hat the estimate  of "a total cost not to exceed $930, 000" was unreal-'  istic, and would in all probability have to bé exceeded.  The Indian delegation therefore proposed that the  General Conference fix a ceiling for the construction  of the third building and that the matter be referred  to the Headquarters Committee to see whether it was  possible to complete the work within that ceiling. If  the Committee decided that it was not possible, the  Indian delegation considered that, despite the vote in  the Adniinistrative Commission, the Conference should  decide not to proceed with the construction of the third  building. -
(30) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL remarked that some  delegates appeared to believe that the cost of the third  building was within the control of the Director-General  and the Headquarters Committee, but that was not the  case, He could give no guarantee regarding the cost  of the third building, particularly as contracts  included an "escalator" clause, enabling the contrac-  tors to increase their estimates in the course of the  operations, if wages and the cost of materials rose  The Secretariat and the Headquarters Committee |  could therefore dè no more than proceed with extreme  caution, making no change in the plans for the third  building, save those entailed by an attempt to rectify  mistakes which had become evident in the original  planning. He pointed out to the delegate of India that  the total cost of $930,000 could not be exceeded without  the approval of the Headquarters Committee and the  Executive Board. He did not see how further restric-  tions could be legislated.
(31) Mr. BARON CASTRO’ (El Salvador erved  that, if the Director-General were in a position to  give a categorical guarantee that ‘thé building would  not cost à cent mordyhe would do so and thé Com-,  mittee would confirm the fact But it had to bé borne  in mind that the building was being erected in à city  and a country where unpredictable factors, such as  the çost of labour snd materials; were éperative.  The ‘effect, of such factors could be provided for, but  not fully. While the Australian representative was  anxious that delegatés should be given assiirances  for the future, | the future was unpredictable.’ Everyone  hoped that’ prices would remain’ steady but that ‘would  not be possible sincé the durient crisis ‘might logic  ally lead toan iricrease in transport costs, There  was a whole series of basic factors that were totally  beyond the ‘control of the Director-General and the  Committee. The Comimission should therefore act  accordingly and take account of that margin of  uncertainty. That was the reason for fixing a ceiling  figure as a safeguard.
800     ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  The Indian representative had attempted to reintro-  duce the question of housing ICAO. The point had been  devided by the Commission and could not be reopened,  The clear and preçise French proposal stipulated  the Director-General's responsibilities more  accurately, If the proposal was acceptable to the  Director-General, a vote could be taken on it, as the  topic had slready been sufficiently discussed.
(32) Mr, TRUEBLOOD (United States of America)  whole-heartedly. agreed with the Director-General  and the delegate of El Salyador that it was impossible  to estimate future incieases in wages and prices  accurately; However, his delegation had voted for  the construction of the third building on the under-  standing that the total cost would not exceed  $930,000 and would therefore like to know how long  the construction was likely to take, Judging from the  delays in connexion with the main building, it seemed  possible that the third building would take two years  to complete, in which case any deficit could be dealt  with by the General Conference in 1958.
(33) The DIRECTOR- ‘GENERAL replied that the  architects had stated th at, if construction began  immediately after the current session of the Confer-  ence, the building should be completed in May 1958,  The major construction costs would, however, be  incurred many months before that date and that was  why he was afraid of having to suspend operations if  he could not draw on the Working Capital Fund.
(34) Mr. MUNRO (Australia) asked if it would not be  possible to insert penalty clauses in the contracts to  guard against non-completion of the building within  the prescribed time and price.
(35) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained to the  delegate of Australia that, in France, no contract for  constructicn could be passed legally without an  "epcalator" clause. It was therefore impossible to  follow the suggestion of the Australian delegatio. .
(36) Mr; ‘CABOUAT (France), réferring to the  "escalafor” clauses, assumed that provision was made  for similar clauses in all countries in which wages  were fixed by law, as in France. While some materiuls  could be bought in advance at a given price, wages had  to conform with the regulations in force at the time  the work waa being performed,  To those delegations who were ‘afraid that the  Director-General might bé given a free hand to go  beyond the celling figures, he pointed out that the  Director-General had not only to obtain the approval  of thé Executive Board, but also to consider the  circumstances in which the necessary loans could be  obtained from the French Government. While the -  latter was prepared to grant all the necessary facili-  ties until the completion of the job, it was obviously  anxious that the total estimate should be as reasonable  as possible, There might be no new rise before the  end of 1957. The Director-General would make every  effort not to go beyond the $600,000 he was authorized  to draw from the Working Capital Fund, but could  obviously not give any guarantee on that point.
(37) Mr. Nguyen-QUANG-TRINH (Viet-Nam) felt   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  obliged to remind the meeting that a question raised  by the French delegation had not yet been anawered,  namely that of parking space at Unesco Headquarters  under normal conditions and during conferences,  Since the cost of building garages was so high, he  wondered whether the architects could not be asked  to plan the basement of the third building as a garage.
(36) In reply to the delegate of Vlet-Nam, the  CHAIRMAN said thet he intended to take up the question  in document 9C/ADM/PROV/5 immediately after the  Commission had voted on the French amendments to  document 9C/ADM/PROV/3.
(30) Mr. JOCHAMOWITZ (Peru) said that the problem  was both difficult and important, . The Commission  should not tie the Director-General's hands. Any  estimate that appeared reasonable at the moment,  might have to be exceeded if circumstances changed.  The Headquarters project had been planned at a  period when prices were stable in France, but a rapid  increase was now feared. Delay in the building would  be disastrous and suspension of work for a year would  entail a greater loss than the sum under discussion.  The Headquarters Committee had been constituted  in 1949; it was now 1956 and the building was  promised for 1958, The delay had been entirely  attributable to the architects, who had begun by sub-  mitting a project that was unacceptable to the  municipal authorities of Paris, Two years had been  lost and the building was still not completed.  Everything possible should be done to ensure that the  Director-General wouid not be compelled to hold up  building operations. It would be advisable to delegate  sufficient authority to the Executive Board to enable  it to settle any difficulties that might crop up.
(40) Mr. ARROYO (Ecuador) felt, after hearing some  of the earlier speeches, that there was too great an  anxiety to supervige the carrying out of the project.  The Director-General 's attitude was logical. It was  impossible to give a rigid estimate. While it was  understandable that the Director-General could not  give eny guarantee on the maximum figure, he had  undertaken to spend no more than $830,000 on the one  hand, and $500,000 on the other. The object of the  amendment to the resolution under discussion was to  ensure that those sums were available to finish work  on the original building and to construct the third..  was not the time to consider whether the A  had or had not been right in agreeing to the construc-  tion of the third building, The sum voted could there-  fore be increased to $600,000 but no more. Should it  be necessary to go beyond that sum, the only remedy  would be to wait until the tenth session of the General  Conference.  The speaker referred to the French Civil Code (on  which many other civil codes were based), which  allowed contractors, even if no such clause was  included in their contracts, to ask for and obtain  additional sums, in the event of à rise in prices  caused by circumstances beyond their control, such,  for example, as French Government ordinances, or  an outbreak of war. Although the contract did not  contain any stipulation to that effect, the contractor  could, in such cases, claim from Unesco,  in the courts, the payment of a higher sum,
601     V-14  basing such claim on a. proved .rise in, prices.  The suspension of work was a serious matter and  might prove more expensive than it would to increase  the appropriation so as to ensure that the work was  not brought to a standstill, . The position was clear  and the Director-General was right. Those who  feared that there would be no limit on the cost of the  third building should set their minds at rest.
(41) Mr. MUNRO (Australia) snnounced that, although  the French amendments were {mpeccable in form, his  delegation intended to vote against them, because the  additional amount of $2,500,000 approved in the last  two days would probably be exceeded, ‘That sum  consisted of the $1,000,000 approved to cover ‘the  deficite in building costs, the $600,000 reserve to be  drawn from the Working Capital Fund, and the  $930,000 for the third building. His delegation would  feel far happier about the whole situation if the sum  of $500,000 were really a ceiling figure, but it seemed  that the Director-General enyisaged haying to come  to the Conference in two years' time for additional  sums.
(42) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL had never intended  to convey to delegates that he believed it likely that  the reserve of $500,000 would be exceeded, Indeed,  he hoped not to exceed the amount of $910,000,
(43) The French amendments to document
9C/ADM/PROV/3 were adopted by 38 votes to 3,  with 4 abstentions.  Draft resolution on the subject of an underground  garage, submitted by the delegation of France  (document 9C/ADM/PROV/5)
(44) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL asked the French  delegation what kind of proposals it thought he should  make to the Headquarters Committee if it wera ‘found  necessary to build an underground garagi, and whether  it thought that could be done with the funds available,  without drawing on the Working Capital Fund.
(45) Mr. CABOUAT (France) obsérvéd that, on the  previous Thursday, he had’ already informed the  Commission of the French authoritiés’ anxiety that  the garage question should be salved as soon as -  possible. Draft resolution 9G/ADM/PROV/S had iio  immediate budgetary implications. It simyly authèr-  ized the Director-General to study the problem with  the competent authorities as à matter of urgency. At  the moment, the Director-General had no funds  available for the building of a garage, but he should  be in a position to submit a report on the question so  that, if the negotiations concerned produced rapid  results, the General Conference would be able to take  a decision at its next session.
(46) The DIRÉCTOR- LGÉNERAL'é tears regarding  the interpretation’ of the résolution had beéñ allayed  by Mr. Cabouat's explanations; but he pointed out  that the resolution; if adopted, would not give him  authority to build the garage, even if the City of Paris  agreed to pay, for it. The reason was that the plans  did not include a garage. The ides of having a Unesco  garage as one of à series of garages planned by the   v-14  French Government was under discussion and he could  report on the outcome af those discussions to the  General Conference at its tenth session,
(47 Mr. ARROYO (Ecuddor) thought the French  proposal out of place at the moment. While it might  lead to the aclution of a Unesco problem, it was of  greater importance 16 the municipality of Paris,  which would to sonle extent be helped by it in solving  a'serious city problem, The proposal would have  been of mère use if it had been submitted before  building had started.  , To authorize the Director-General to hold discus-  sions with the French Government would not impose  any obligation but neither would it advance matters.  It would be necessary to wsit until the tenth session  of the General Conférence before approval could be  given,  Nothing would be lost by adopting the proposal, if  the French Government were to bear the cost of the  work of would submit a reasonable plan for financing  it, in view of the importance of the subject from the  municipal angle. It was regrettable that the proposal  had not been submitted earlier.
(48) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that a garage  providing for 28 cars could be placed under the third  building. If the Commission wished that to be done,  the Secretariat would make a hasty estimate of the  cost involved, if possible within the $930,000, |  The main gafsge would have to be under the spuce  to the south of the Secretariat building and could be  built at any time, The only problem was whether to  put down temporary or permanent paving in that area,  because, if pérmanent paving were put down and it was  subsequently decided to build the garage, the paving  would have to be torn up and money would be wasted.
(49) Mr. CABOUAT (France) felt that, {f draft  resolution 9C/ADM/PROV/5 were adopted, the  Director-General; after negotiating with the appro-  priate authorities, could report to the Headquarters  Committee and hold up the final arrangement of the  Piazza until 1958, in case the construction of an  underground garage proved possible, In the meantime  the Piazza could be temporarily paved.
(50) . The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explaitied that, if the  resolution in doyument 9C/ADM/PROV/5 were adopted  as it stood, he would be willing to ask thé Headquarters  Committee ‘whether it wished to recommend the con-  atruction of an underground garage, taking account of  all the funds available, to the General Conference at  its tenth session. In the meantime, he hoped that the  Commission would give him guidance on the subject  of temporary or permanent paving.
(61) Mr, JOCHAMOWITZ (Peru) paid that parking  was the most serious problem. The number of  Unesco cars would grow and, sooner or later, the  question of building the garage would have to be  considered. It could be made an economic propo-  sition by handing it over to a private concern which  would manage it for a specified period, after which  it would revert to Unesco.   (53) Mr. BARON CASTRO (El Salvador) asked for
602  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  some clarification af the French proposal, which was  à little vague. He asked whether it referred toan  widerground garage, Its capacity was not known, It  hud been said that a garage with space for 25 cars  could be built under the third building, He wanted to  know whether it was proposed to have an open space,  or the provisional gardens that had also been dis-  cussed, in which it would be possible to park care,  Who would benefit from the proposal? It was of  importance to Unesco to have available sufficient  parking space duriuy the General Conference or far  any event attended by large numbers of people, but he  assumed that the architects had already provided for  those possibilities. The problem of parking space  for the vehicles belonging to the Organization itself,  or for its use, might be solved by the garage to be  provided in the third building.  The draft was vague and he therefore asked the  French delegate and the Director-General for a more  detailed explanation.
(53) Mr, MONTAGNIER (Chief, Bureau of Conference  Planning and General Services) repeated the details  he had already given with regard to the underground  garage. It would be possible to park about 100 cars  in the open, in the groünds of the Headquarters  building, Unesco officials and the permanent delega-  tions already accounted for 300 cars and the number  would rise to'400 by the time the new building was put  into use. The architects had considered tha possi-  bility of constructing an underground garage for 400  cars, 10,000 square metres in area, under the Piazze.  Thé cost of suchi a project would be roughly 400,000,000  francs, and the repayment of a 30-year loan, without  interést, would mean an outlay of 13,300,000 francs a  year. There was no certainty that, even if the space  and the service station were fully used, the garage  would bring in that sum.  Mr. Montagnier added that contact had been made  with the Paris roads department some months  previously, as it had been hoped that the project might  be included in the overall programme of underground  public garages financed by the authorities. But tie  negotiations had come to nothing.
(54) Draft resolution 9C/ADM/PROY/5 was seconded  by the Cambodian delegation.
(55) It was adopted by 26 votes to 1, with 8 abatentions.
(56) The CHAIRMAN remarked that the Commission  had concluded its discussion of all questions  connected with the Headquarters building.  ITEM 13.1 OF THE AGENDA : PERSONNEL POLICY:  APPOINTMENT, OBLIGATIONS AND RIGHTS OF STAFF MEMBERS  (continued) (document 9C/ ADM/7)
(57) The CHAIRMAN referred menbers of thé  Commission to paragraph 16 of document 9C/ADM/7  and asked if they agreed to take note of the revised  text of the Staff Regulaticns and Rules submitted by  the Director-General in an annex to that document.
(58) It was so agreed,  The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.