IV-23 PROGRAMME COMMISSION  TWENTY -THIRD MEETING
27 November 1956, at 6.30 p.m.  Chairmans Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)  later: Mr, ANAS (Afghanistan)  ITEM 9.5 OF TPR AGENDA: MASE COMMUNICATION (contiaued)  (documents 9C/8 and Addenda and Corrigenda)  Project 5.324: Public Liaison (paragraphs 133 to 139)
(1) The CHAIRMAN reminded the Programme Com-  mission that the business before it was the considera-  tion of Project 5.324 - Public Liaison. There were  two draft resolutions to vote on, and action was  necessary on document 9C/PRG/16.
(2) Mr. GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) explained that the activities envisaged  under Project 5,324 were the result of the Depart-  ment's reorganization; encouraging results had  already been achieved by similar work in 1956. With  the help of National Commissions and non-govern-  mental organizations, 472, 000 information items had  been distributed and 2, 000 libraries had received the  photo exhibits entitled "Knowledge Knows no  Frontiers". The United Nations information offices  had given valuable help, and Member States had co-  operated in the preparation or adaptation of certain  materials. . 1 ©  In document 8C/5, Corrigendum , the Director-  General proposed to continue the Coupon Scheme -  which had been found very useful - but without soli-  citing gifts; the schème was a great help to educa-  tional institutions in remote places. The 44th ses-  sion of the Board had made it quite clear that Member  States were in favour of the continuation of the  scheme, despite the improvement in the currency  situation since its inception. A working party was  studying the alternative proposal made by the  Director-General to avoid increasing the cost of  operating the scheme.
(3) The CHAIRMAN explained that the working party  was dealing with the administrative aspects of the pro-  posed Coupon Scheme; the Commission was asked tode-  cide on its desirability, She suggosted that two speakers  should speak in favour of the scheme and two against.
(4) Mr. ANAS (Afghanistan) said that his country  had derived no benetit from the Coupon Scheme  because Unesco required payment in "foreign"  currencies which were ali equally difficult to obtain.
(5) Mr. TSUDA (Japan) was in favour of the scheme,  because it was expanding. The Japanese exchange  conirol authorities were ready to help with it and  with the Travel Coupons.
(6) Mrs, SAUNTE (Denma-k) was in favour of con-  tinuing the scheme,
(7) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the general
432     desirability of continuing the Scheme, and the Com-  mission approved it by 28 votes to 3, with 6 absten-  tions. The details of the new project would be  worked out by the joint working party.  (Mr. Anas (Afghanistan) took the Chair)
5.4 Encouragement of the Production of Mass Media  Programmes on Educational, Scientific and Cultural  Themes (paragraphs 141 to 153 & documents 9C/DR/5  and 78)
(8) Mr. GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) reminded the Commission that the  section had already been discussed in relation to  programme activities, The Secretariat felt that it  could discuss the problem of co-operation with inter-  national bodies in the field of films and television  better if a widely representative body were set up  (individual consultations had proved very expersive).  The Franco-Italian motion, made at Venice, was  welcomed by the Director-General; an International  Film and Television Institute, grouping diverse but  legitimate interests, would be an excellent solution.  In Brussels there was already an International Film  Council for children; it had received Unesco contracts,  but it was only a provisivnal body. The production of  documentaries on education, science and culture had  been enci)uraged and the establishment of a co-operative  body was under consideration; the support of film and  television interests was being sought, The European  Broadcasting Union was not quite satisfied about  financial responsibilities, but it was negotiating with  Unesco on the creation of the Institute. It was the  Director-General's intention to use the proposed funds  for its establishment, on condition that the founders  also contributed to its cost.
(9) Mr. VERDONE (Italy), commenting on paragraph  (E), (163), and draft resolution 8C/DR/5 submitted  by the delegations of France and Italy, said that the  Italian delegation wished to point out that there were  a number of reasons why it was desirable to establish  a film and television institute. A similar institute  had existed prior to 1040, under the auspices of the  League of Nations; it had done research work and  had published shidies and a quadrilingual journal -  which indicated that, éven then, the need for an in-  stitute of that type was felt, Moreover, since Unesco  had siready set up an International Theatre Institute ‘  and an International Music Council, it was logicalthat  there should be a film and television institute as well,  especially sincé those media of communication  raised very complicated problems and concerned far  more people than either the theatre or music. At  the time of the Congress held in Venice in August
1056, a number of international film and television   PROGRAMME  associations had been in favour of setting up an inter-  national institute, and the scheme also had the support  of certain competent governmental authorities con-  cerned with films and television in several countries.  The creation of an institute of that type, incorporating  international associations and bodies concerned with  films and television, might moreover prevent the  emergence of too many specialised international or-  tions in that field, Finally, the proposed in-  stitute would be able to handje certain complex pro-  blems such as the requirements of specialised au-  diences and the organisations representing them, and  a variety of other cultural, legal and technical pro-  blems 30 far scarcely touched on. As the Philippines  delegate had pointed out, it was particularly impor-  tant to promote the circulaticn of documentary films,  which made an extremely valuable contribution to  the improvement of international understanding.  Another important point was that the membership of  the proposed institute would include certain countries  of Asia and Latin America which had so far had little  regular contact with specialized associations in the  West.  With regard to paragraph (F), (154a), in document
9C/5, Corrigendum 1, concerning the establishment  of national cinema and television "museums", the  Italian delegation congratulated the Secretariat on  initiating that project, and pointed out that, besides  encouraging the establishment of such "museums" in  countries where they did not aiready exist, steps  should be taken to improve existing ones and to assist  in building up specialized archives.
(10) Mr. ALMEIDA SALLES (Brazil), referring to  paragraph 153 and to the Franco-Italian proposal, thought  it regrettable that Unesco's programme contained no  préjects relating to the cinema except in the Mass  Communication chapter, a fact indicating that Unesco  still regarded the cinema solely as a means of spread-  ing information. It should not be forgotten, however,  that the cinema was also a branch of arf characteristic  of the modern world, The Brazilian delegation there-  fore hoped that films would also be given a place in  the programme of cultural activities,  Speaking more particularly of the proposal contained  in document 9C/DR/S, Mr. Almeida Salles thought  the advisability of setting up an association of inter-  national film and television organisations was ques-  tionable, and that care should be exercised, Theides  had originally been put forward by certain interna-  tional centres for photography and cineimatography,  and there were already numerous associations con-  cerned with the production of entertainment snd educa-  tional films, and with film techniques and film preser-  vation. Care should therefore be taken not to per  the activitiés of those existing associations, and the  Brasilian delegation thought that inquiries should be  made of specialized non-governmental associations  and organizations before the proposed international  institute was set up.
(11) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) thanked the Director  of the Department of Mass Communication for accep-  ling draft resolution 9C/DR/5 in principle, Mr,  Brunavick agreed with thé comments of the Brazilian  “ delegate, but thought the Franco-Italian draft resolu-  COMMISSION    tion met his point, since it merely invited the
1V-23  Director-General to carry out an investigation and to  ask the associations concerned to help.
(12) Mr, BALIGA (India) said that it had originally  been intended to create two or three centres for the  exchange of film and television programmes, In  the Corrigenda the idea had been abañdoned, which was  a pity. India made many children's films and was of  the opinion that the number of exchange centres should  be increased.
(13) Mr. RICHNER (Switzerland) said the Swiss  delegation was against setting up an international centre  of educational, scientific and cultural films for use  in television, on the grounds that it would be expensive  and not necessarily effective. Television exchanges  were already operating satisfactorily in Europe through  Eurovision and a system of bilateral contacts, Euro-  pean television organizations, and European broad-  casting organizations at a meeting held recently at  Aix-en-Provence, had been opposed to the establish-  ment of such a centre.
(14) Mr. HAVELKA (Csechoslovakia) said that his  delegation was particularly interested in maiters con-  cerning co-operation on film production, a question
80 far somewhat neglected by international organiza-  tions, There were two aspects which deserved special  attention: ‘the production of films for children, men-  tioned in paragraph 149 of the Proposed Programme  (the Czechoslovak National Commission had already  submitted a proposal relating to that point, recom-  mending that a seminar be organized, under Unesco's  auspices, to discuss the subject); and the production  of documentary films, Mr, Havelka was pleased to  note that the Director of the Department had men-  tioned the possibility of organizing a seminar; the  Czechoslovak National Commission would be prepared  to assist, _ The seminar might, for instance, take  place in Czechoslovakia in conjunction with the Film  Festival at Karlovy Vary, at which a large number of  countries were represented,
(15) Mrs. SAUNTE (Denmark) was in favour of an  international centre for children's films, but she  thought extensive consultations were needed for the  selection of suitable films, It would be a good  policy to wait and see whether the proposed centre  could work;
(16) Mr, KELLERMANN (United States of America)  said his delégation viewed thé Franco-Italian draft  resolution With considerable interest and approval,  Fuller and more effective exploitation of films in  mass communication was definitely needed, but it  would be a mistake to anticipate the resulis of the  proposed Rome conference. He advocated further  thought by the Director-General, especially as similar  projects were already in existence.
(17) Miss GNAUCK (Federal Republic of Germany)  agreed with the arguments in favour of closer colla-  boration between films and television - both of which  should be used by Unesco to a greater éxtent, She  thought, however, that Unesco should be certain the  cenire would look after exchanges and that its founders  would meet two-thirds of its costs. No satisfactory
1v-23 PROGRAMME  administrative and financial solution for such a  centre had yet been found, She was in favour of the  kind of proposal made in document 9C/DR/78, and  recommendsd a study of the impact on children of  films and television,
(18) Mr, KEMENOYV (Union of Soviet Socialist Re-  publics) thought the Franco-Italian proposal was a  timely reminder of a very important question, for  the cinema and television were very powerful media  of communication which had not yet been fully exploi-  ted. An international centre would be able to deal  with all problems of co-operation in those fields  between the various countries. Indeed it was sur-  prising, considering how useful it would be, that’  no such centre ye: existed. Mr, Kemenoy thought  the United States delegate's objections unfounded,  since the Franco-Italian proposal authorized the  Director-General to make Investigations with all due  care, and to establish an international centre under  the best possible conditions, The proposal con-  tained in document 9C/DR/5 was provisional, and  was supposed to lead to a conference which could  make any necessary amendments to the initial pro-  ject. The ground should therefore be well prepared  so as to ensure achieving practical results as soon  as possible,  Mr. Kemenoy added that the Soviet delegation  whole-heartedly supported the Italian proposal,  document 9C/DR/78, concerning the protection of  children from the possible adverse influence of press,  film, radio and television.
(18) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) said that, as the  delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany had  already emphasized, it was impossible to anticipate  the results of the investigation or to give details  about the operation, policy and activities of the pro-  posed centre: the project would be worked out jointly  by the various nations, and the form it assumed would  be determined by the replies they sent in to the  Director-General,
(20) Mr. BOGDANOVIC (Yugoslavia) warmly suppor-  ted the draft resolution submitted by France and  Italy. He thought the French delegate's comments  made it clear that the object was merely to carry out  a detailed inquiry on the possibility of setting up a  cinema and television centre.
(21) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) thought the United  States delegate's comments were intended rather as  advice to the Secretariat than as serious objections.  Unesco should start as soon as possible to carry out  the project, on which there were already a number of  specialized documents.
(22) Mr, GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) stated that the general aim was to  stimulate the formation of international hodies to take  over, at their own expense, the desired activities.  The plan of the institute had been evolved in co-opera-  tion with the interested bodies, but without financial  guarantees, It should be remembezed that films  were information, but also education and art, The  Brussels organization was only provisional but it had  very competent advice and some financial support;
434     COMMISSION  the organization would welcome an international in-  stitution. The Director-Genéral had been very  cautious in all three cases, stressing the need for  outside resources before committing Unesco; and  he would not act without the Board's approval and  advice, Of course, ‘some financial support by  Unesco was essential; the project was not perfect  but it represented a very useful beginning. Witha  general authorization to use the amounts proposed,  satisfactory progress should be possible, provided  that Member States helped, ;  In reply to the delegate of Denmark, Mr. Gjesdal  explained that document 9C/DR/5 referred to paragraph
153; the proposals, on the lines of the Franco-italian  draft resolution, would provide ample funds for the  project,
(23) Mr, ASSUMPGAO DE ARAUJO (Brazil) called  on the Secretariat to make special efforts with regard  to the publication "World Communications" so that  the underdeveloped countries, which were making  great progress in television and films, could reap  the full benefits of the results of the Franco-Italian  project. Television played a vital part in education  in those countries,
(24) Mr. KUYPERS (Belgium) was in favour of the  projects for the production of films for children and  the establishment of cinema "museums", Withregard  to the setting up of a film and tetevision centre, he  noted that delegates had approached the problem from  a number of different angles. The Italian delegate  proposed setting up the centre in the near future. The  Franco-Italian draft resolution anticipated the findings  of the expert meeting and in fact provided for an interim  committee. The Swiss and German delegates, on the  other hand, had voiced the objections of the commercial  television companies. Mr, Kuypers did not think ft  possible to consider producing films for television  without a prior assurance that the television companies  would use them. Europe had Eurovision, with its  very efficient clearing house, but the television com-  panies still declared that they wished to continue pro-  ducing films themselves, Mr. Kuypers suggested  adopting a method similar to that proposed in para-  graph 115 for radio broadcasting, and organizing a  meeting of directors of specialized bodies. Inter-  national preparation for the proposed centre would  therefore have té include consultation with the main  commercial companies concerned, as well as the  Director-General's inquiry.
(25) Sir Richard BOYER (Australia), as one who  operated a television service himself, agreed with  the delegate of Belgium. There was little enthusiasm  in television circles for the proposed scheme, while  the international centre should have the full co-  operation of all those who might use the films, He  wondered whether Unesco should take the initiative in  the matter or let the television services come together  first of their own accord and then offer its help and  sponsorship,
(26) Mr. VERDONE (Italy), replying to the objection  put forward by the Belgian delegate, sald that the pro-  posed centre would not deal with production or direct  exchanges, but would be a scientific body dealing with   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  the technical, cultural, artistic and educational  problems of films and television.
(27) Mrs. BIRD (Canada) wondered why the Com-  mission had taken up the question at that stage; many  countries still had no television and other, greater,  needs should have priority.
(38) Miss FIELD (United Kingdom) felt that insut-  ticient attention had been paid to the financial im-  plications of the proposal, She also agreed with the  delegate of Australia, ;  {29) Mr, BRONIAREK (Poland) warmly supported the  Franco-Italian proposal and did not shire the fears  of Canada and the United Kingdom. He pointed out  that countries without television would have it in a  very short time, and the service should be planned  with that in mind.
(30) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) did not share the  Canadian delegate's scepticism about the future of  television in education, In fact that aspect of tele-  vision offered a very important field for Unesco's  action. Research on it was of vital interest to the  whole world,
(31) Mr, GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) r/ assured the delegates of Australia  and Belgium: two meetings of television representa-  tives had besieged Unesco with requests for help to  get the institute created, Unesco had adopted a  cautious attitude, had promised nothing beyond one-  third of the costs, and would prefer to confine itself  to clearing house activities. In reply to the delegate  of Brazil, Mr. Gjeadal said that his Department was  following developments in television with the greatest  interest and would be glad to merge the Franco-  Italian proposal with paragraph 151.
(32) The Commission approved draft resolution
9C/DR/S, by 28 votes to 2, with 6 abstentions, as  an instruction tothe Secretariat; it would not be  written into the programme.
(33) Resolution 5,41 was approved unanimously.
(34) Resolution 5.42 was approved unanimously  (with 2 abstentions),
(35) Mr. LEE (United States of America) explained  that he had voted for both resolutions without approv-  ing the work plans because they were not sufficiently  mature. The two expert meetings referred to by  Mr. Gjesdal had been paid for by the participants  themselves; the results of the second meeting had  only recently been circulated to Member States,  which had not had time to evaluate them.
(38) The CHAIRMAN assured Mr. Lee that his re-  marks would be noted by the Secretariat.
5.5 Improvement of the Means and Techniques of  Communication (paragraphs 155 to 172 and documents
9C/DR/20, 22, 33, 34 and 45 Rev.)  {37) Mr. GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass
435     IV-23  Communication) stressed that, sincé the Corrigendum  had been printéd, an Institute for the advanced study  of journalism had been set up at Strasbourg, Its  curriculum would bé studied the following month.  With regard to the proposal, in paragraphs 158 to 161,  to make an experimental television study in countries  that did not yet have it, Mr. Gjesdal pointed out that  the Director-General had recommended an increase  of the provision to sas, 000 (in document 9C/5 Corri-  gendum 4).
(38) The CHAIRMAN said that the relevant draft  resolutions were documents 9C/DR/20 and 22, both  submitted by France, documents 8C/DR/33 and
9C/DR/34, sponsored by India, and document
8C/DR/45 Rev. submitted by Yugoslavia.
(39) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) referred to the section  on Co-operation with other international and regional  institutes (Corrigendum 1 to the Proposed Programme  and Budget, Part II, Chapter 5, paragraph 153) with  an estimate of $5, 000, for 1957 and 1868, for ald to  an international film organization, and, possibly,  convening an international conference to that end.  He neither thought that estimate adequate, nor thought  the proposed conference of experts the best way of  furthering the project, and therefore proposed that  the funds allocated should be used for the activities to  be undertaken by the film organization itself.
(40) Mr. RICHNER (Switzerland), commenting on the  project for improvement of facilities for education in  journalism, recalled that there had been a meeting  of experts at Unesco House in April 1956 attended by
29 specialists from 23 countries, by representatives  of the United Nations and the International Labour  Organisation, and by 30 observers from non-govern-  mental organizations, The experts altending that  meeting had récommended the establishment of  regional and international centres for improving the  professional standards of journalism, and had made  practical proposals, The Director of the Department  of Mass Communication had sald that the proposal  contained in paragraph 164 had been warmly welcomed  in journalistic circles, and that project was included  both in the Proposed Programme and in Corrigendum 1.  Mr. Richner was therefore surprised to note that the  post of Programme Specialist for the project, in the  Proposed Programme and Budget (paragraph 190) had  been deleted in Corrigendum 1, although the project  itself was retained. Mr. Richner proposed that the  post be reinstated.
(41) Mr, BALIGA (India) explained that his country  had submitted two proposals: one for television in  India and the other for sn audio-visual seminar in  South East Asia. He thanked the Director-General  for the provision for an experimental unit in South  East Asia,  Document 9G/DR/34. did not propose a novel scheme  (there was a previous example in Costa Rica) nor a  purely technical one; it was really a multi-purpose  project linked with education, ‘culture and social  sciences. The recent farm forum programme in  Bombay State was proof of radio's popularity for such  purposes and India wanted to use television for the  same ends,   IV-23 PROGRAMME  ‘The project was necessarily costly, but additional  funds might be found by the Secretariat for such a  very commendable undertaking.. Mr; Baliga re-  called that $85, 000 were still left in the fund for  assistance {o Member States; some part of that  amount could perhaps be used to implement the  Indian proposal,  The seminar envisaged in document 9C/DR/33  would produce further improvements in the use of  audio-visual media in cultural community develop-  ment, which had "A" priority for all the United  Nations Agencies,
(42) Mr. ASSUMPQAO DE ARAUJO (Brazil) sup-  ported draft resolution 9C/DR/20 submitted by  France, but said that the Brazilian delegation thought  it would be better not to specify that the proposed  seminar would be of a regional character and would  meet in Europe.
(43) Mr. LEE (United States of America) ‘asked .  whether the Indian delegation would accept the dele-  tion of the words "in India" from document 9C/DR/33,  in order to conform with paragraph | 162, ‘The United  States delegation was very sympathetic to the pro-  posal contained in document 9C/DR/34; there was  no question that the television unit should be estab-  lished, but he wondered whether the information  sought was not already available in abundance through  the experiments which had been made in other  countries. Mr. Lee asked that the Director-General  re-examine the situation in that respect, whichmight  perhaps save a considerable part at least of the ex-  penditure envisaged.
(44) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) supported the United  States delegute's suggestion that the Indian delegation  he asked to delete from draft resolution 8C/DR/33  the mention of India as the host country for a seminar  on audio-visual communication techniques for South  East Asia. - ’  The French delegation considered draft.resolution
9C/DR/34, relating to a pilot project for felevision  in India, to be very important, but thought it would  be difficult to carry through with the funds available  to Unesco under the Mass Communication budget, It  would be better to include the project in the Technical  Assistance programme,  As regarded draft resolution 9C/DR/%0," ‘thé French  delegation was prepared to amend its text since the  delegations of several non-European countries had  expressed their intérest in {t and found it régrettable  that the seminar should be regional in character,  The French delegation proposed to leave it to the  Secretariat td draw up the list of countries wishing  to attend the seminar, and to issue invitations,  Draft resolution 9C/DR/22 on thé use of audio-  visual media for fundamental and adult education  called for comments. Mr, 'Brunsvick referred  members of the Commission to document 9C/6,  Part II, Chapter 5, paragraph 171, which gave a  list of the activities to have been completed by the  end of 1958. Those activities included the use of  television for fundamental and workers! education.  The French delegation thought it impossible to  abandon experiments in so important a field which  had only just been begun, especially since the
436     COMMISSION  Director-General stated, in paragraph 141, that  "Unesco will give particular. attention in 1957-1056,  to the new possibilities offered by the considerable  development now taking place in television", :, The,  French delegation also protested against dis¢ontinuing  work on the production of periodical reading matter  for new literates, and on local production of funda-  mental education films. The French delegation  therefore asked that a survey might be made of the  cultural needs of the masses which the existing  mass communication media could not meet. Film-  strips were a vital aid to mass education, For all  those reasons, the French delegation asked that the  funds provided for those activities be maintained at  the same level as in previous budgets, |
(45) Mr. BALIGA (Indie) ‘thanked the délegates of the  United States and France for their remarks, He had  indications that the seminar would be very welcome  in South East Asia, but the choice of location was’ left  to the Commission, _ He stressed again that the tele-  vision pilot centre was not only a technical matter; it  involyed culture, education and social problems, for  which the use of television would bé very valuable,  He agreed that a long preparatory perlod was neces-  sary because the problem had to be investigated under  local conditions. Two hundred thousand dollars was  a large sum, but the promotion of education and cul-  ture could not be too highly paid for,
(46) Miss GNAUCK (Federal Republic of Germany)  associated herself with thé remarks of the delegate  of Switzerland. The journalism project had béen  enthusiastically recéivéd by everyone ahd it was  therefore surprising that the only specialist post  was being abolished when more such posts should  be created, The German delegation regretted that  the project on the use of television - whose possibilities  were not exhausted anywhere - was to be dropped. She  thought Member States should be able to apply for  help and advice in that field and, accordingly, some  “ funds for the purpose should be available.
(47) Mr. CALO (Itaiy) on behalf of his delegation,  supported the French draft resolution on the use of  television in adult education. Italy had already or-  ganized a project on the usé of télévision in adult  education in its own country, and the Social Insurance  and Welfare Centre had organized a congress in Milan  on various aspects of television, whiéh had been  attended by representatives of other countries and of  Unesco. The congress had stressed thé great im-  portance of television in adult education, and had  recommended that experiments in its use be extended,  The Italian delegation therefore supported draft  resolution 0C/DR/20, on the understanding that the  seminar would not be stated to be a regional one, It  also supported draft resolution 9C/DR/22 which vas  similar to that in document 8C/DR/20 in purpose  and spirit,
(48) Mr. RUDRA RAJ PANDE (Nepal) warmly sup-  ported the Indian proposal.
(49) ‘Mr. GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) reminded the delegate of Mexico  that Unesco had put $45, 000 at the disposal of the   PROGRAMME  film centre. He explained that the cut of the post of  a journalism specialist was made necessary by a  decision of the 44th session of the Executive Board,  The Board had nol recommended the approval of the  Indian television proposal because it considered the  matter was rather within the competerice of the Inter-  national Telecommunication Union; perhaps it could  be accommodated under the Technical Assistance  programme, The audio-visual seminar would in-  crease expenses from $10, 000 to $25, 000 and the  Director-General could not accept it at the moment,  The use of visual media for education had been very  carefully considered and only abandoned at the last  moment because the training programme had been  retained, The use of audio-visual media and tele-  vision continued to occupy the attention.of the Secre-  teriat. Seven thousand dollars had been reintroduced  by the Director-General for the dissemination of  material for new literates. The radio forum had  been dropped for budgetary and concentration reasons  and in spite of the very interesting report on the pro-  ject carried out in India.
(50) Mr, KEMENOV (Union of Siviet Socialist Re-  publics) raising a question of order, asked the  Chairman to keep to the procedure whicit had been  agreed, It had been decided to adjourn the mveting at
9 p.m, Mr, Kèmenoy therefore proposed that the  meeting be adjourned, so that the discussion could be  resumed at a later meeting, afier delegates had had  an opportunity to make a careful study of all the docu-  ments before them,
(51) The CHAIRMAN siressed that the Commission  COMMISSION
437  IV-23  still had à great deal of work to do before the end  af the Conference.
(52) Mr. LYNKOV (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic) seconded the motion for adjournment.
(53) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  said that the Commission was already behindhand  in its programme, and that It was important that it  should submit its report punctually to the General  Conference, so that the latter could complete its  work by the date set, The Commission could, he  thought, soon reach the end of the Mass Communica-  tion chapter if all the draft resolutions before it were  voted on before the adjournment.
(54) The CHAIRMAN suggested settling the fate of  the draft resolutions by an immediate vote,
(55) Mr. KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Soclalist Re-  public) recalled that, under the Rules of Procedure,  thé Chairman was bound to put a motion for adjourn-  ment to the vote immediately,
(56) The CHAIRMAN said Rule 75 was quite clear:  an adjournment motion had precedence over any other  business. |
(57) The Commission approved the adjournment by
18 votes tq 7, without abstentions.  The meeting rose at 9. 10 p.m,