IV-6  to encourage international u:derstanding in the social  sciences, but regretted the budgetary cuts proposed  in that chapter because, despite Unesco's efforts in  the past few years to establish contacts and bring  about exchanges, it was clear that many possibilities  of action had not been developed as they should have  been.  In conclusion, Mr, Lynkov said that Unesco needed  the support of all Member States in executing the  tasks laid down in the Constitution, added that he  would make practical proposals to that end during the  detailed discussion of the programme.
(14) Mr, KAUL (International Labour. Organisation)  stated that, in a series’ of undertakings appearing in  the draft programme for 1957-1958, ILO and Unesco  were pooling their resources ‘and efforts for common  ends, He was anxious to inform the Commission of  the situation with regard to "neighbouring rights": at  a meeting held in Berne on 15 October, the Director-  General of ILO and the Director of the Berne group  had agreed on a joint approach to that important  question, He drew attention to document 9C/ PRG/6,  paragraphs 16 and 21, which siated that Unesco, ILO  and the Berne organization had agreed on the pro-  cedure to be followed in their approach to governments.  Certain small divergencies still existed, but an Inter-  national convention would be framed; the Governing  Body of ILO was considering its draft and would com-  municate it to Unesco's Director-General in the near  future.
(15) The CHAIRMAN informed the Commission that  the list of speakers in the general debate was now  exhausted, but that four representatives of non-  governmental organizations had asked to make state-  ments. Before calling upon them, however, she pro-  posed to call on the delegate of Mexico wha had just  arrived, having been delayed.  speaking of the (16) Mr. ZAVALA (Mexico),    PROGRAMME COOMMIBSION  philosophical and ideological basis on which Uneaco's  activities appeared to reat. considered that, at the .  moment, all the Organization's work was directed .  towards practical action and, far. from being purely.  academic, was designed to lead to a practical, con- .  centrated programme of governmental action, A study  of the programme showed that there had been a reduc:  tion in the activities of the Department of Cultural  Activities but there were, on the other hand, new and  very useful actiyities in that same Department. Re-  ferring to the major project on mutual appreciation  of Eastern and Western cultural values, he remarked  that the title seemed to relate to two specific regions  of the world and should be expanded to cover other  regions, such as Latin America. He thought that the  title should be interpreted not in a purely geographical  but in a wider sense.
(17) The CHAIRMAN sald the General Committee had  held a very lorig meeting that morning and had taken  two decisions of particular interest to the Commis-  sion: it had approved the new tirmé-limit for the  presentation of proposals in’ relation to the major pro-  jects, and, as there seémed to he some doubt about  it, she had verified that the limit was 16 November  in the evening. Secondly, on the ‘proposal of the  Administrative Commission, ‘the General Committee  had recommended that the two Commissions hold a  joint meeting some time the following wéek to discuss  the planning of the 1959-1960 programme, the "Courier"  publications and the coupon scheme. The agenda of  that meeting would be circulated later. In the course  of the afternoon meeting, the Commission would take  action on the recommendations of the Committee on  Reports of Member States and hear the Director-  General's observations on the points which had been  raised in the general debate. The Commission would  then take up item 10 of the agenda - Technical  Assistance,  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  SIXTH MEETING
16 November 1956, at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)  ITEM 9 OF THE AGENDA : CONSIDERATION OF PART R OF THE  PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1857-1988 (documents
9C/5 and Addenda and Corrigenda) — GENERAL DISCUSSION (continued)
(1) Speaking at the invitation of the Chairman, Mr.  SAMBAMOORTHY, observer for the International  Music Council, said that he was grateful for the oppor-  tunity of making a few suggestions for promoting the  major project on the mutual appreciation of Eastern  and Western cultural values in the field of music.
328     For the appreciation of Eastern muse, ft would be  useful to evolve an international musical notation, which  would enable an accurate reproduction of Oriental music  to be made in Western countries. Each country could  then publish some forty simple melodies, including  folk tunes and simple operatic airs, in that notation.  Those melodies could Le taught to students in other  cc-ntries. Further, an international orchestra could  be formed, containing the characteristic instruments  of different lands. It could be trained to play n :lodic   PROGRAMME COMMISSION IV-6  music accurately. The number of instruments could  be arranged to give a consolidated tone ensemble,  ‘and the drum, so characteristic of Oriental countries,  could be given its true place, Such an orchestra  would enable Western ears to hear true Oriental  melodies unadulterated by harmony,  Unesco could perhaps arrange for the publication of  the scores of melodies of different countries and also  for their recording; for the benefit of interested insti-  tutions, Indian opera and dance dramas could also be  produced in the West, or filmed. Biographies of  some of India's important composers might also be  published in the West.  The woods for making violins were available in  India and it might be possible for a Western expert in  violin-making to come to India to help in the manu-  facture of good violins,  Unesco might give its support to the International  Society for Music Education, which was planning to  hold à seminar in India, and, through Unesco, pro-  fessors of Oriental music might be invited to give a  series of lecture-recitals in Western universities and  academies of music. Chairs of comparative music  might be established in some of the bigger universi-  ties, as it would be useful for people to learn of the  scales and rhythms common to the music of all coun-  tries and of those characteristic of particular  countries,  It might be possible to set up a world gallery of  musical instruments, in which people could be em-  ployed who were qualified to explain and demonstrate  the techniques of playing them. Such a gallery would  be unlike a museum, since all the instruments would  be kept in working order and be available for demon-  stration purposes. A world archives of gramophone  records might also be set up, containing examples of  the artistic music, sacred music, operatic music,  folk music and martial music of the different coun-  tries. Records of the national anthems of the world  could also be kept there.  Some of the above suggestions could be carried out  through the International Music Council.
(2) The CHAIRMAN remarked that her attention had  just been drawn to a written proposal put forward by  the delegates of Turkey and Burma to the effect that  interventions made by members of the Commission  should be limited to 5 minutes and should be confined  to the point under discussion. She did not intend  adopting a hard-and-fast rule at the stage reached,  but would interpret the proposal as being a suggestion  to members,  She invited the observer for the International PEN  Club to address the Commission.
(3) Mrs. DINGERKERY, ‘observer for the Interna-  tional PEN Club, thought that the increase voted in  Unesco's budget, ard the fact that a large number of  delegations supported the view that the Increase  should be used for the major projects, were healthy  signs, The International PEN Club supported the  view that the project on the mutual appreciation of  Eastern and Western cultural values was a worth-  while one for Unesco to undertake,  She appreciated the Director-Geéneral's remarks to  the plenary meeting, when he advised proceeding  cautiously ir the matter of the major projects, and
329  felt that a small beginning at the present juncture might  provide the basis for a long-term, well thought out  plan, .  As a first step. in the scheme of major projects, Qu  Unesco should concentrate on: (1) a cries of planned  international meetings to consider selected themes on  a cultural level; (2) the translation of selected literary  works; (3) the compilation of à well-classified Direc-  tory of World Literature; and (4) exchanges and con-  tacts between writers, artists and philosophers, and  the peoples of different countries. All those matters  required careful planning and the formulation of  specific schemes, -  The co-operation of non- governmental organizations  in furthering the idéals of Unesco was of great signi-  ficance, as, being unconnected with governments, they  were frequently in a better position to give full expres-  sion to their views than were governmental organizations,  and could thus plcy a greatec rôle in the culture and  development of countries, The international meetings  and symposia proposed in the programme for 1957-
1958 provided a desirable means of achieving Unesco's  aim, A symposium could be held in connexion with  the PEN International Congress to be held in Tokyo  in 1957,  In conclusion, she expressed the hope of the Interna-  tional PEN Club that the major project on the mutual  appreciation of Eastern and Western cultural values,  especially so far as literature and writers were con-  cerned, would be carefully planned with the co-operation  of non- governmental organizations, and that it would  receive greater support in the scheme of major projects.
(4) Mr. KUYPERS (Belgium) hoped that the question  of East-West cultural relations would be discussed at  length by those attending the meetings which the Inter-  national PEN Club intended to hold in Tokyo in 1957  and in Brussels in 1958, It would be an excellent thing  for an organization such as the International PEN  Club to co-operate closely in carrying vut ode of  Unesco's major projects.
(5) The CHAIRMAN was certain that the observer for  the International PEN Club would note the suggestion  of the delegate of Belgium. Further reference côuld  be made to it during the discussion of the chapter on  Cultural Activities.
(6) Mr. RAFE-UZ- ZAMAN, observer for the World  University Service, speaking at the invitation of the  Chairman, said that he would confine his rémarks to  questions concerning the relations of Unesco, at the  national level, with non-governmental organizations.  The general consensus of opinion seemed to be that  it was desirable to work towards closer and more  effective co-operation between Unesco National Com-  missions and national branches of non-governmental  organizations and, while the means and extent of such  co-operation would vary according to the particular  structure of a given non-governmental organization,  there was no need to plead for an attempt to be made  to gain maximum effectiveness in the implementation  of common objectives. It was only necessary for him  to draw the attention of the Commission to resolution
2 of the Fifth Conference of Non-Governmental Orga-  nizations having consultative arrangements with  Unesco (not yet published) to supplement the point   IV-6 PROGRAMME  containéd in paragraph a (a) of the Report of the  Committed on Réporté of Member States (document
9C/PRG/2),' From that resolution, it could be seen  that the non-governmental organizations were deeply  interésted in co-opérating more closely with the  National Commissions, =  He then suggested that the Cominissior and the  Director-General should consider the advisability of  making the resolutions of thé Conferences of Non-  Governmental Organizations automatically available  to National Commissions, If co-operation bétween  non-governmental organisations and National Com-  missions was desirable, and if methods of maintain-  ing and improving such ‘co-operation were to be  sought, he considered that the joint thinking of the  non-governmental organizations would be of interest  to the National Commissions.  He concluded by saying that he hoped to be per-  mitted to make some comments on Education and  Youth when the programme of the Department of Educa-  tion was discussed,
(7) Mr. MAPARA observer ‘tor the Internaticnal  Confederation of Free Trade Unions, speaking at the  invitation of the Chairman, informed the Commission  that the observations he was about to make on the  programme for 1957-1958 had been prepared by  ICFTU in full consciousness of its reoponaibiliiles as  a non-governmental organization having consultative  arrangements with Unésco, and as an organization  firmly upholding the ideas and principles of Unesco.  The Confederation had already submitted a detailed  statement on the proposed budget, which had been cir-  culated in document 9C/5 Addendum 2, Part MI, and  he would confine Kimself to drawing ‘attention to its  salient features, in the hope that ‘sympathetic consi-  deration would be given fo ICFTU's ennviction that  educational, scientific and cultural activities could  not flourish if they by-passed everyday ‘practical life.  - Generally speaking, ICFTU was pleased to note the  overall budget increase, but repeated its criticism  that insufficient attention was paid, in the programme,  to the interests of workers, He ‘hoped’ that the recent  increase in the budget ceiling would allow of à resto-  ration of some of the cuts which had been proposed.  ICFTU regretted that several projects in the Depart-  ment of Fducation's programme had be€én curtailed in  order to include items connected with major projects,  and deplored the fact that the budget for adult educa-  tion was to be gradually decreased in 1957 and 1956.  The proposed reduction in staff costs would ‘make it  quite impossible to. mest the increasing demands of  workers, especially in the underdeveloped areas,  ICFTU was therefore. repeating ‘its recommendation  to the Director-(ieneral io restore the budget cut and  was suggesting a substantial budget increase. Great  concern was felt that no meetings of the Consultative  Committee on Adult Education were being planned for
1957 or 1958, On the other hand, ICFTU was satis-  fied to note the proposed contimiation of regional  seminers and training courses on adult education and  recommended that priority in that reapect should be  given to Member States in the economically under-  developed areas. In planning programmes, there  should be full consultation with national or inter na-  tional organizations, including trade unions.  The exchange of workers programme had proved    COMMISSION  one of the most successful activities of Unesco and  the proposed curtailment of it was completely unaccept-  able,‘ The extension of study tour grants for Latin -  American and Asian workers was welcome, but the  proposal that the plan should be continued at a reduced  level was regretted, ICFTU strongly recommended  the maintenance in 1957- 1958 of at least the 1955-1056  budget provisions.  ICFTU had noted with satisfaction that it was pro-  posed to convene a meéting of experts to consider  measures which might be adopted to facilitate the  movement of persons engaged in educational, scientific  and cultural activities from country to country. It was  indispensable that trade unionists should be included  in those categories of persons,  ICETU fully siipported the programme proposed in  connexion with the free flow of information. It'ürged  the Director -Getiéral to implement Unesco's policy  by demanding of the Government of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics the immediate cessation of the  jamming of radio broadcasts from non- Communist  countries,  The Unesco Research Centre in Calcutta, which had  initiated the ‘study on the social implications of indus-  trialization, had the full support of ICFTU, which  suggested that the study should include sampling grounds  where trade unions were strong and vigorous, such as  Karachi, Ahmedabad, Dacca, Bombay, Jamshedpur,  Calcutta, Malaya, Manila and Hong Kong.  ICFTU, which had set up a per manent committee on  tha peaceful uses of atomic energy, fully supported  the proposed programme to stimulate research in that  field, and suggested thit a comprehensive study of the  question should be launched in 1957-1958, The widest  possible dissemination of the results of any such study  was {mportant.  Great satisfaction was felt by ICFTU at being given  the opportunity to participate in the activities of Unesco.  It firmly believed that Unesco would benefit from the  constant and active participation of representative  workers! organizations in all its activities.” However,  it felt that such participation could only be effective  if it was systematically co-ordinated within the Sec-  retariat, and was therefore suggésting the re- -establish-  ment of the post of Labour Liaison Officer.  Unesco's work through its National Commissions’  would continue to be seriously hampered if the répres-  entation of labour continued to be inadequate, ICFTU  fully associated itself with the view, expressed by its  affiliated organizations, that no effort should be  spared to secure adequate representation of workers  within the executive organizations of Unesco and its  National Commissions, He appealed to delegates to  urge Member States to brosden the bases of National  Commissions by including labour representatives, and  to include such representatives in their delegations to  the General Conference.  * He concluded by saying that, if lasting peace was to  be achieved in the lifetime of those present, vital  international organizations such as Unesco wouid haye  tc have the fullest support of all men of goodwill,  ICFTU dedicated itself to that purpose.
(8) Mr. FATONE (Argentina) approved the major pro-  jects, as they were in line with the aims pursued by  Unesco. The major project on the extension of pets  education in Latin America bore on education; the
330   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  project on arid zone research was of great scientific  value; and the major project on mutual appreciation  of Eastern and Western cultural values was of trem-  endous cultural significance,  Even though the first project would not be of any  direct benefit to his country owing to the high educa-  tional level it had attained, Argentina would give it  its full support and place all its resources at the ser-  vice of Latin America, However, he recommended  that some caution be exercised in car out the  project, since some of the statistical data published  were contradictory.”  As for the arid lands project, he stated that his  country hud recently set up a special institute for the  study of that problem, attached to the "Universidad |  del Sur", as Argentina had various regions affected  by soil erosion; :  Commenting on the project € on mutual appreciation  of Eastern and Wéstérn cultural values, he feit it  necessary to appeal to the broad masses of the people,  in addition to organizing symposia and small meetings,  In conclusion, he expressed the view that two draft  resolutions presented by his country had been dis-  cussed somewhat hastily, and he thought it necessary  to furnish a few explanations concerning them. One  related to the establishment of a Public Information  Centre and the other to the creation of an International  Documentation Centre, both in Buenos Aires. Both  would meet the need for publicizing the work of Unesco  and other international organizations,
(9) The CHAIRMAN commented that the Commission  would make its decisions with regard to the Report  of the Committee on Reports of Member States at a  later stage. Paragraph 14 of that Report, how-  ever, was of importance in the current discussion.  She suggested that the Rapporteur of the Committee  should give the Commission an introduction to that  point.
(10) Speaking as Rapporteur of the Cominiltiee on Re-  ports of Member States, Mr, BRUNSVICK (Frarice)  said that the Committéé ‘had found that mary National  Commissions wishing to ‘take’ an active part in carry-  Ing out Unesco's programme’ ‘Came up ‘against ditti-  culties of procedure.’ ‘Accordingly, as stated in para-  graph 14 of document 9C/PRG/2, the Committéé had  thought it desirable for the Director- General to be  asked, as an ‘experiment,’ té miggest, ‘for the execution  of perhaps ten resolutions, certain “distinctive methods  which could be applied in certain categories of coun-  tries,” For the resolutions in question, the usual type  of work plan would thus be replaced by slightly dif-  ferent plans, the main objéct of which would bé to  éase the task of National Commissions particularly  anxious to co-operate fo the full ‘with Unesco in the  fields covered by those resolutions,  Mr. Brunsvick asked the ‘Commission, in its de-  tailed consideration of the proposed programme, to  ake account of that suggestion which-had, hé ‘empha-
1, been warmly welcomed by the Director -  Gémeral's representative at the Committee in question.  If the proposed procedure were actually adopted, the  Director-General should, in accordance with the  Committee's proposals, also be asked to report to the  General Conference, at ita tenth session, on the  results obtained by that procedure.
(11) The CHAIRMAN said that the Director-General  was in favour of the suggestion that he should prepare  work plans for Member States and had indicated to her  that he would be prepared to undertake such work in  connexion with the major projects and with one pro-  ject in each programme chapter,
(12) Speaking as the Director“ :Général's representative  in the Committeé on Reports of Mémber States; Mr,  MAHEU (Unesco Representative at the United Nations)  confirmed Mr, Brunayick's remarks regarding the  Secretariat's attitude towards the proposals ‘mentioned  in paragraph 14 of document 9C/PRG/2. He pointed  out, however, that, although the Secretaridt was quite  ready to try out the experiment in’ question, it obvinusly  could not be expected to’ submit to the Organization's
79 Member States plans of action that would be exactly  suited to each country's special situation, All that the  Secretariat could do was to offer suggestions concern-  ing some of the methods that might be employed by  National Commissions, with due regard to the condi-  tions obtaining in each particular State.
(13) Mr. ANAS (Afghanistan) expressed his apprecia-  tion of the report of the Committee on Reports of  Member States and invited the Commission to imple-  ment the recommendations it contained,  Referring to paragraph 14 of thé report, hé suggested  that the Director-General might also be asked to out-  line a method of reporting for the benefit of Member  States. Many countries did not know how reports should  be made, or how to evaluate the work which had been  done; and any assistance in that respect would be most  welcome. It was very {important that a clear view  should be obtained of what had been accomplished and  what remained to be accomplished.  He fully agreed that the machinery of the National  Commissions needed strengthening but, as Member  States could not always enjoy thé luxury of additional  personnel, it would be useful if some guidance were  given them on secretariat management, His Govern-  ment would be grateful to know what qualities should  be demanded of personnel, and what the terms of refe-  rence of full-time employees of National Commissions  should be.  He appreciated the comments of the Committee on  the requirements of countries for equipment to carry  out their Technical Assistance programmes, His  country needed help with such equipment, especially  in the field of the social sciences. In many cases,  countries did not need experts under the Technical  Assistance programmes but they usually required  equipment.  He wondered whether it would be possible to devise  some means of ‘the annual reports from Mem-  ber States. Frequently there were no spectacular  changes in respect of projects which had been started  in previous years and Member States were reiuctant  to report on thém annually, It was obvious that, it  projects were maintained, Member States had to make  some effort and the absence of a report would not  mean that nothing was being done, Apmial reports  might give an incomplete picture of what was actually  being done in the various countries and, for that  reason, he suggested that a brief historical back-  ground of each project should be provided as an  introduction to the annual reports. The only   IV-6  alternative would be to have biennial or long-term  reports, … "
(14) The CHAIRMAN said that the Commission was  taking action only on paragraph 14 of the Report of the  Committee on Reports of Member States at that stage,  and suggested that it was only necessary to hear from  those members of the Commission who were opposed to  to the adoption of the recommendation contained  therein,
(15), Mr, BARBEY (Switzerland) paid tribute to Mr,  Brunsvick and the Committee which he served as  Rapporteur for the excellent work done. He was  strongly in favour of the proposals contained in para-  graph 14 of document 9C/PRG/2 and moved that they  be approved.
(16) The proposals in paragraph 14 of document
9C/PRG/2 were épproved,
(17) Mr. THOMAS ‘(Assistant Director- General) then  replied to the comments made during the general dis-  cussion of the proposed programme.  whilat others hore onl  programme or à ‘specific group of activities. For  the time being he. would confine his remarks to the  former. The Commission would have an opportunity  of reyerting to the others during its detailed discus-  elon of the proposed programme; he would only be  prolonging the discussion needlessly by dwelling on  them at the moment,  Mr. Thomas first poted with satisfaction that most  of the delegations had approved the balance, in the  proposed programme “under, discussion, between  general and special activities, and between’ projects  initiated by the” ‘Organization and those undertaken only  at the instigation of Member States, “The fact that  such approyal hid been obtainéd ‘om ‘the great ‘  majority ; if not all - of the, delegation was, in his  opinion, to be attribiited to. the’ Secretariat's, conscien-  tious compliance, in’ its planning of the programme,  with the inbtrictions laid dows in ‘résoltion Iv,3  adopted by the General Conference at’ ite eighth ses-  sion. Mr, Thomas therefore thought it ‘advisable for  similar. instructions to be laid down by t the General  Conference for the préparation ‘of thé programme to  be submitted to it al its tenth session.” He accordingly  hoped that the Programme Commission would make a  point of setting aside the time required for drawing up  such instructions, ‘for approval by the General  Conference, ;  Although, às Mr, Thomas had already réniarked,  most of the delegations ! had approved the existing ‘  balance in the proposed programihe, a few dissentient  voices had been heard. The French délegation, for  instance, had been ‘alarmed at the apparent tendency  for the “special activities to encroach gradudlly o on thé  general activities, It was true that the funds provided  for general activities in document 9C/5 Corrigendum
1 were lower than those, set aside for the same pur-  poses in the 1955-1956 budget, - But that was not due  to ax deliberate’ intention.” In a’budget such as  Unesco's, slight variations might well oécur from  one year to the next, but they should be attributed only  to the need for balanée. In the case in point, that
332  afforded ‘ an o]    PROGRAMME COMMISSION  accounted for the reduction in the funds set aside for  general activities; a reduction which, Mr, Thomas  once again stressed, it would be very wrong to regaid  as intentional, .-  However; Mr, Thomas felt bound to point out to the  Commissiori that, if the greater part of the additions  $1,000, 000 recently voted were set aside for the &  projects (which had to bé classed under the heading of  special activities); it would mean further accéntuating,  at least in appearance, the lack of balance already ;  existing, in the opinion of some delegations, between  the general and the special activities, - But it should  be remembered, in that connexion, that though the ..  major projects should; in accordance with the accepted  definitions; be ranked among the special activities,  their implementation would nevertheless entail a mm-  ber of tasks which were comparable in nature with the  general activities.  -  Mr, Thomas noted with satisfaction that the major.  projects had met with the ‘approval of ail deiegations..  The apecial enthusiasm shown in the Commission for  the major project on mutual appreciation of Eastern  and Western cultural values called; however, for. some  comment, By its very nature, that major project .  differed considerably, from the other two and it was -  therefore more difficult for the Secretariat to deter-  mine the most appropriate working methods to ensure  that it was effectively carried out, Despite the con-  sultations that had taken place between the various  Departments of the Secretariat since it had been de-  cided to submit the third major project to the General  Conference, there was still much uncertainty about  the results to be expected from the various activities  it was intended to undertake for the purpose. So far  ag the actual presentation of the project waa concerned,  that accounted for certain defects or deficiencies of  which the Secretariat was fully awere, but which it had  not yet been able to eliminate.  Mr. Thoirias ‘then went on to speak of Unesco's reli-  tions with the various international organizations re-  presented at the, Conference, He, endorsed the remarie  made by the representative of the United Nations con-  cerning the need for close co-ordination between the |  two organizations, activities, He algo considered thai  there had Already. been much improvement in that co-  ordination, which, in his opinion, was largely due to  the establishment, at New York, of a post of Unesco  Representailve, | ; Mr. Thomas, was glad that the Lima Conference had  rtunity for Unesco to co-operate  effectively with the Organization of American States, .  and he hoped that ‘the co-operation would be even further  sirengttiened in future,  He was also 8 ‘atitfed at the reaulis ‘achieved ‘through  Unesco's working relations with the Internationa] Labour  Organisation, pirticutarly with régard to the problem  of "rie ighbour ing rights". in connexion with copyright,  Lastly, Mr, ‘Thomas emphasized that the Secretariat  was fully aware of the part played by the international  non-governmental organizätions in the execution of  Unesco's programme, and had carefully noted the state-  ments made by representatives of those organizations  during the curréut discussion.
(18) The CHAIRMAN thanked’ Mr. Thomas for his ex:  cellent summing up of the Commission's debate. She.  thought the Commission would be grateful if Mr. Maheu   PROGRAMME OCOMMIBBION  would explain the position with regard to the closer  co-ordination of Unesco's work with that of the United  Nations.  {19) Mr. MAHEU (Unesco Representative at the  , United Nations) said that the resolution on page XXVII  of document 8C/6 Corrigendum 1 had been adopted by  *he Economic and Social Council at its last session,  in July and August 1956, :  As it had general responsibilities with regard to  the co-ordination of the work of the United Nations  and the Specialized Agencies, the Economic and Social  Council adopted a resolution of that type every year,  on the report of its Co-ordination Committee, In the  case in point, it had expressly requested that its  resolution be brought to the attention of the governing  bodies of the various organizations concerned.  Special attention had to be paid to paragraphs 4, 6  and 8 of that resolution, .-  The Economic and Social, Council's efforts were  directed mainly towards the following two aims:  (a) to induce each of the organizations coming under  the authority of the Economic and Social Council to  concentrate its activities on a limited number of prob-  lems of paramount importance;  (b) to arrange, by a harmonious co-ordination of  programmes, for the efforts of those various orga-  nizations to be centred on common problems and aims.  . Mr, Maheu said that much progress had already  been made with regard to the "concentration" men-  tioned in sub-paragraph (a) above, and the Economic  am Social Council had recently expressed special  satisfaction with the way in which Unesco had im-  proved {ts programme in that respect over the past  few years,  The "co-ordination" mentioned in sub-paragraph  {b) was far more difficult to achieve, owing to the fact  that the organizations in queation were constitutionally  self-governing and that their programmes were accor-  dingly drawn up and adopted {independently of each  other. | |  Some progress ‘had; “hôvever, ‘already been made  in that direction, For ft to, continue, it was ‘first of  all essential that the delégations representing any .  given State in the various United Nations organizations  should all be guided by à coherent policy , carefully  defined by the’ goyerament of that State. Accordingly,  paragraph 4 of the resolution of the Eçoñomié and  Social Council called upon States Mémbera of the  United Nations and of the Specialized Agencies "to take  urgent meagures to ensure on the national level a  co-orditated policy....",  - But certain measures of co-ordination ‘could also be  taken at the international level by the two bodies com-  petént to do so, ramely, the Administrative Com-  mittee on Co- -ordination and thé Economie and Social  Counetl itself. The action of the former (consisting  of the Secrétary-General of the United Nations and the  Diréctors- Geñéral of the various Spécialized Agencies)  ‘could not exterd beyond the administrative sphere;  the Economic’ ad So¢ial Council, consisting of dele-  gates of various’ Yovernments, was, however, vested  with political authority,  ‘The efforts of those two bodies to’ bring better co-  ordination betwéen the programmes of the various  "agencies of the United Nations had at first been direc-  téd mainly towards avoiding overlapping and duplication
1v-6  in activities and responsibilities, In that respect, thé  results achieved could be considered most satisfactory,  But to achieve full co-ordination, as advocated in the  resolution in question, it was desirable to see that the  organizations concerned consulted one another as ofien  as possible while planning théir programmes, The *  example already set by the Director-General of Unesco  in communicating to his colleagues in the United Nations  and the other. Specialized Agencies the draft programmes  drawn up by him, and in thus obtaining all relevant  comments on them, had been much appreciated by the  Economic and Social Council, and it was to be hoped  that other international organizations would make a  point of following it. The Food and Agriculture Orga-  nization had already done so.  Consultations should, however, be conducted not only  at Secretariat level, but also at the level of the various  organizations! goyerning bodies, Moreover, the rules  of procedure of all those bodies contained provisions  similar to those embodied in Rule 14 A of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference of Unesco, and  it would be desirable to ensure that those provisions  were applied as often as possible. .  The logical outcome of increasing recourse to those  various methods of co-ordination would seem to be the  gradual establishment of a new phage, the phase of  "concerted action", . That implied that the members of  the United Nations family would probably be required to  "integrate'' their programmes more and more closely  with a view to the joint planning and execution of a few  projects involving concerted action by several organiza-  tions, which might be described as "major projects" of  the Economic and Social Council. That was a likely  development which the Programme Commission would  doubtless wish to bear in mind when laying down its  instructions for the preparation of the Organization's  future programme.  ESTABLIBUMENT OF WORKING PARTIES (continued)
(20). The CHAIRMAN reminded the Comshteston that it  had deferred its ‘decision on setting up, a working party  to examine the deairabllity of Unesco 8 preparing regu-  lations on, international exchanges of publications and  the standardization of educational statistice and parti-  cipating in the ‘preparation of a convention on thé so-  called "neighbouring rights" to copyright. She had, how-  ever, received the names of nine delegati ons which wished  to serve on such a working party. That seemed to indicate  that there was adesire that such a working party be setup  and, that being so, she invited further notifications from  delegations wishing to participate in its work.
(21) The Programme Commission agreed to the setting  up of such a working party.
(22) The CHAIRMAN ther tntorimed the Commissiôn  that she had received a proposa) from the delegation of  italy for the setting lip of a working party to examine  the programme of the Department of Mass Comimunica-  tion. She suggested deferring action on that proposal  until the chapter on Mags Communication had been  discussed in detail. The Commission could then decide  whether such a working party was needed or not.  Agreed,   Iv-6
(23) Mr, -RAADI (Iran) thanked Mr. Maheu for his  excellent statement. He hoped that the Programme  Commission would duly recommend that the General  Conference bear the Economic and Social Council's  recommendations in mind when it came to draw up  the instructions to be followed in preparing the fature  programme.
(24) The CHAIRMAN suggested to Mr. Raadi that he  should raise the question when the future programme  was being discussed.  ITEM 16 OF THE AGENDA: EXPANDED PROGRAMME OF  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE (Report of the Director-General on the  activities of the Organization In 1965, documents 9C/3 and 9C/PRO/24)
(25) Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) {Representative of -  the Executive Board) said that the Executive Board  had always been greatly interested in the programme  of Technical’ Assistance, and, since the funds for -  Technical Assistance now formed" à substantial part of  Unesco's regular budget, had givén Careful study to  the reports issued by the Secretariat. °  The Executive Board had, ten’ ‘months previously,  set up.a working party to considéd the principles which  should govern the granting of Teehnical’ Assistänte  and to make suggestions with regard to'thè future'of  that programme (Report of the Direétor- General on  the activities of the Organization in 1955," page 149),  That working party had agreed thaf éducation was  vitally important in the social and economic develop-  ment of a country and that Unesto's rôle in the overall  Technical Assistance programme should be mainly in  the field of education, It had also recommended the  addition of the social sciences as a category in which  requests could be made for Technical Assistance.  The importance of creating national institutions in  countries receiving Technical Assistance had been  stressed, as had the iieéd for supplying équipment.  The working party had pointed out that there was an  insufficient mimber of top experts and had suggested  that young experts should be trained to work with the  top people. Finally, it had stressed the desirability  of creating a special fund from which countries could  draw money to back up the work of the experts in the  field,  The Report of the Director- -Géneral on the activities  of the Organization in 1955 contained the recommen-  dations of the working party. Many of those recom-  mendations had already been adopted by the Technical  Assistance Board.
(26) Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  apologized for the absence of the Director and Deputy  Director of the Department of Technical Assistance,  both of whom had been unavoidably prevented from  coming to New Delhi. .  After emmerating the various documents’ relating  to the programme of Technical Assistance which were  before the Commission, ‘he drew particular attention  to the evaluations made by six governments of pro-  jects being carried out in their countries under the  Technical Assistance programme (document 9C/PRG/
24, Annexes I-VI). In compliance with the wishes of  the General Conference at its eighth session, and of .  the Economic and Social Council, those six governments
334  PROGRAMME COMMISSION  had been requested to présent their own evaluation of  projects completed in their countries. The evaluation  had been published without any. alterations and reprès-  ented solely the views of the governments concerned,  The principle of geographical distribution had been fo)-  lowed in the choice of governments, and projects cover-  ing as many of the fiélds of Unesco's activities as  possible had been selected for the purposes of evalua-  tion, He then drew attention to the highlights in each  of the main evaluations, © -  He informed the Commission that thé adoption’ of the  principle of country programming for Téchnical Aseis-  tance was proving ‘successful.’ The system had been  started in 1955: counties were informed of thé total  amounts of Technical ‘Asistance which could be made  available to thèmi'in à given'yeär; : they then formulated  their progranimes, with help’ and ‘advice from Unesco  and other agencies, Once thé programmes were {of mu-  lated, they could not be modified by Unesco.’ The systèm  had been found complex in’ 1985, and certain simplifications  had been introduced in'1956: It Sonfor med to thé objectives  of the Expanded Programmié of Technical Assistance,  The Economic and Social Council had asked the -  Specialized Agencies to make a review of Technical  Assistance over the past tive years and, on thé basis  of that review, to make suggestions with regard to the  future of the programme, The Executive Board had  studied the matter carefully and had rhade’ recommeü-  dations to the Economic and Soctal Coinéil, The Tech-  nical Assistance Board had submitted a documant, ‘  which it called “A Forward Look", to the Economie  and Social Council, ‘That décuinent contained sugges:  tions about the future and included some of the récom-  mendations mide by the Executive Board. Amongst’  other things, the docürnent recoinmended two alterna-  tives for the future financing of the Technical Assis-  tance programme; namely, either to Increase’ thé "  budget gradually by 1 aboût 10 per cent à year until it  reached a total of $50,000, 1000, - ‘Or tô accept the prin-  ciple of a much’ more rapid inérease) ‘permitting tigs-  sive operations which would begin to cater for coun-  tries’ needs. It the first alternative were adopted,  Techni¢al ‘Assistance ‘would remain a programme of  advice and demonstration,’ whereis, if the second were  chosen, it would become aii operative programme,  The Econoinic and Socal Council had received ' "A  Forward Look with interest. It had decided fo forward  it to Member States for their comments and to Fécon-  sider the question in 1957 in the light of those comments.  Problems had arisen with regard | to 'specia ly  designated currencies. He recalled that, af’ the be-  ginning of the programme of Technical Assistance, it  had been agreed that countries should be allowed to  pay their contributions in currencies which were not  readily convertible. Techniçal Assistante programmes  were divided into: (a) programmes on which readily  usable currencies were employed and (b) those paid for  from designated currencies, Any country could request  assistance in those currencies but, © over the years, in-  sufficient demands hid been made and funds in those  currencies had accumulated, The Economic and Social  Council had considered the matter. carefully and had,  appealed to the governments concerned to pay their  contributions to the programme in usable currencies.  It had also instructed tho Technical Assistance Board  to merge the currencies for use in its single, country  programmes, starting in 1958. Krom 1958 therefore        PROGRAMME COMMISBION  there would be a single country programme and no  distinction of resources.  He then asked the Chairman whether, owing to the  lateness cf the hour, she would prefer him to conclude  his introduction at the next meeting.  IV-7
(27) The Commission decided to ask Mr. Adiseshiah  to complete his statement at its next meeting.  The meeting rose at 6.40 p.m.  SEVENTH MEETING
16 November 1956, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. ANAS (Afghanistan)  ITEM 10 OF THE AGENDA; EXPANDED PROGRAMME OF  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:(continued) (Report of the Direclor-General  for 1985, documents 9C/3 and 9C/PRG/24)
(1) Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  resumed the survey he had begun the day before. He  stated that the Téchnical Assistance Committee of the  Economic and Social Council examined "headquarters  costs", or administrative overheads, at regular  intervals, and that there was elaborate control over  such expenditure; another review groûn would meet  in New York in the near future. He next referred to  the valuable heip and guidance given by thé Executive  Board with regard to the implementation of the Tech-  nical'Assistance programme; a working party of the  Board had made a careful study of the contribution  made by Unesco in the last five years, The Board  intended to review twice a ‘vear the development of  the programme and the technical soundness of its pro-  jects. In accordance with thé Montevideo resolution  (IV.1.9.5) concerning the publication of reports on  Technical Assistance, the Director-General had pub-  lished three such reports; they had been circulated  to Member States, the Board and non-governmental  organizations. The subjects of the reports were;  "Library Education in Israel" (by L. Carnovsky, in  English). "Organization and development of the National  Research Council of Egypt" (by F,W.G. White, in  English), and "Le Reboisement et l'amélioration des  forêté en Macedoine Yougoslave' (by Pierre Bouvaret,  in French),  Two other reports, "El ehtrenamiento de los  maestros no titulados en sérvicid en Ccita Rica"  (by Luis B, Prieto Figueroa, In Spanish) and "Une  mission d'assistance est arrivée - -‘Centre de ‘dock  of the reports would be issued tn evi  of the Organization, Document ‘aC/5 rod 11] gave  the main features of the 1957-1958 programme, In
1986 Uneaco's allocation for Technical Assistance was
45,000, 000, approximately $4, 600, 000 would be avail-  able. in 1957, but of that sum only $3, 800,000 would  te in ‘’useble” funds. ‘The 1958 total might be near
18,200,000. Unesco would operate in seven fields:
335  primary and secondary education, fundamental educa-  tion, technical education,’ scientific research, ‘science  teaching and’ scientific and technical documentation,  and, finally, consultative services. -Primary and  secondary eracation,’ fundamental education and  scientific research would receive the lergest  amounts of assistance, In the social sciences a smal)  start had been made in 1955 and 1956; the activity  would be stepped up in the years to come.’ As to the  form Technical Assistarice would take, Mr. Adiséshiah  said Unesco would continue to concentrate on experts,  equipment añd fellowships. The programme was not  expanding fast enough and governments gave priority  to current undertakings; accordingly, there was not  enough money left for new projects, equipment and  fellowships. He called attention to the Board's recom-  mendation that equipment should be given not only when  experts went to a particular country but also when fel-  lows returned to it. In 1957-1958, increased emphasis  would be put on the long-term institutional aspect of  Technical Assistance in staff and equipment, so that  something would bé left behind by Unesco when it  pulled out of a country. .  The Technical Assistance programme was now com-  pletely integrated with Unesco's’ regular prograinme:  assistance to arid zonés in Egypt, Israel, Pakistan  and Turkey would find its natural place in the major  project for the development of arid lands; ‘ ‘assistance  in primary education in Bolivia, Colornbia, Ecuador,  Haiti, Honduras, Nicaragua, Pahama and Peru would  fit into the major project for teacher training in Latin  America. In the Middle East, Technical Assistance  would be provided to the Arab States Fundamental  Education Centre, to the Desert Institute in Egypt, etc.  With regard to héadquarters costs, Mr, Adiseshiah  pointed out that those of Unésco had beén reduced. from
9,9 per cent in 1955. to 9.4 per cént in 1956; they were  the lowest adininistrative costs among all the United  Nations and Specialized Agencies. As regarded Africa,  Unesco's Technical Assistance activities covered  Ethiopia, the Gold Coast, Liberia, Sierra Leone,  Somaliland and the Sudan, In East Asia, in addition  to Unesco's Technical Assistance activities in China,  Korea and Japan would probably, receive help in funda-  mental education. In Europe, Unesco gave Technical  Assistance to Yugoslavia and negotiations were under