13 November 1956, at 3,30 p.m.  +  Chairman: Mr. MATSUI (Japan)  REPORTS ‘ON THE ACTION TAKEN no GIVE EFFECT TO  CONVENTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ADOPTED BY  INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCES CONVENED UNDER  UNESCO'S AUSPICES (continued)  ADOPTION OF THE RFPORT (document 9C/JUR/PROV/4)
(1) Mr, LUSSIER (Bureau of Legal Affairs) read out  document 9C/JUR/PROV/4.
(2) After paying tribute to the skill with which the  document had been translated into English, Mr,  COWELL (United Kingdom) : asked whether the word  "text" in the tenth line of paragraph 7 had been used  deliberately to indicate that new conventions were to  be presented to the General Conference in draft form  only, He had thought that the document to be presen-  ted to the General Conference would be à convention  already adopted by an intergovernmental conference,  _ in which case the expression ‘international instru-  ments" would be more accurate than "text".
(3) Mr, LUSSIER (Bureau of Legal Affairs) said that  the documents would be conventions and récommenda-  tions previously adopted by a special international  conference. The same correction would have to be  made in the French version of the report, "texts"  being replaced by “international instruments".
(4) The changes suggested were approved for both  languages.
(5) Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Soctalist Republics)  thought that a solution slightly different from those  mentioned in paragraph 7 had been ‘proposed at the  previous meeting. There had been a question of  apecifying the ‘methods by which governments should  inform Unesco of the measures they had taken to im-  plement each of the recommendations or conventions.
(6) Mr. ‘COWELL (United Kingdom) recalled that he  had been responsible for the suggestion included in  paragraph 7 of the draft report, since he had agreed  with the Vice-Chairman that it would be unwise for  the General Conference to adopt any general rule  covering the mannér in which Member States should  report on future international conventions or recom-  mendations. It had been thought preferable that the  ‘matter should be left open, the General Conference  deciding at the time a new convention was presented  to it, and for each particular case, the most appro-  priate methods by which Member States should report  on implementation.
(7) Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) was satisfied with the explanation given by the
690  delegate of the United Kingdom. He remarked that the  report made no mention of another point which had  been brought up, namely, the possibility of deter-  mining the manner in which information should be con-  veyed at the time when the convention was drawn up.  He did not, however, press the point, as he did not  think it very important.  ITEM 14.1 OF THE AGENDA: DRAFT AMENDMENTS TO THE  RULES OF PROCEDURE OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  (continued) (documents 9C/ADM/12 and 9C/JUR/PROV/3
(8), Mr. LUSSIER (Bureat ot Legal Affairs) read out  document 9C/JUR/PROV/3, A slight change might be  made in the wording. The proposed test contained the  words "approved or rejected"; but if the voting went  in favour of a proposal, it would appear in the Com-  mission's réport and could thus in any case be dis-  cussed in plenary meeting, There was therefore no  point in retaining the distinction, In addition, the text  would seem to apply only to decisions of Commissions,  whereas Committees too (such as the Credentials Com-  mittee) might be called upon to present their reports  directly to the Conference; it would therefore be  advisable to include Committees-as well. The provi-  sion might then read as follows:  "Any Member State which proposes the discussion  again in plenary meeting of a subject already con-  sidored by a Commission or Committee, but not  covered by a formal proposal-by that Commission or  Committee tn thé General Conference, shall give  notice to the‘.*resident of the General Conference in  order that sus 'i subject shall be specifically included in  the agenda of tie plenary meeting to which the report  of the Commiss‘on is submitted".  SS =
(9) The CHAIRMAN suggested that no immediate  decision be taken | on the new text, so that delegates  might have time ¢) study it at leisure and express their  opinion at a subsé quent meeting.
(10) Mr. coweu)i 5 (United Kingdom) supported that -  proposal; but thoi ght that the alternative text sub-  mitted by the Le], al Adviser should be referred to the  working party wi ich had prepared the original draft.  The opinion of tiiat working party on the amendment  submitted would: be of value to the Committee.
(11) The CHAIRMAN recognized the wisdom of the  United Kingdom delegate's remark and ‘asked delegates  if they agreed to an adjournment on that unde: standing.  Agreed.  The meeting rose at 4.10 p.m.