PROGRAMME COMMISSION IV-27  TWENTY - SEVENTH MEETING
28 November 1956, at 9.30 a. m,  Chairmau: Mr, ANAS (Afghanistan)  later: Mrs, MYRDAL (Sweden)  ITEM 9.1 OF THE AGENDA : EDUCATIGN (continued)  (documents 9C/8 and Addenda and Corrigenda)
1,4 Fundamental Education (continued) (paragraphs
137 to 176 and document 9C/PRG/27)
(1) Mr. GUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education), replying to the questions raised the ‘  previous day by the delegates of the United Kingdom  and the British Caribbean Group, said that, though it  was difficult to estimate the cost of training students  at the Fundamental Education Centres at Patzcuaro  and Sirs-el-Layyan, it might be reckoned at about  $3,000 a year for each student, It’ should not be  forgotten that those Centres were carrying out a  research and a training programme simultaneously  (cf. document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1, paragraph 152).  The principle of co-operation between Unesco and  the United Nations and the other Specialized Agencies  in the operation of those two Centres had been  reaffirmed by the appraisal mission which had studied  the question in 1955-1956, and by the Administrative  Committee on Co-ordination; it no longer presented  any difficulties.  {2) Mr. NAVRATIL (Czechoslovakia) thought the  production of reading material for new literates was  more properly the concern of the Department of  Cultural Activities, He feared that the standard of  such texts was uneven, and récommended that they be  prepared on a regional basis so as to make them more  suitable for the people for whom they were intended,
(3) Mr, BEEBY (New Zealand) expressed his delega-  tion's strong support for the recommendation,  contained in the Director-General's proposals in  document 9C/5 Corrigendum 4, to increasé the funds  available for the interdepartmental project on reading  materials for new literates by $90, 000, His delega-  tion had revised its original position in the matter,  and was now of the opinion that half that sum should  be allocated to activities under the Department of  Cultural Activities,  There were three stages of progress in respect of  the newly literate with which the Organization should  concern itself; the first stage of actually learning to  read; the second, where that skill had to be consoli-  dated by the reading of relatively simple material;  and the last stage of free reading, where the …  Organization's contribution lay mainly in making cheap  books available, etc. It was essential that at no  stage should the learner's interest be lost and, while  that problem was more or less satisfactorily dealt  with in schools by means of carefully prepared and  graded material, the situation with regard to adults  was more delicate as, unless really suitable reading
459  material existed, they were inclined to abandon  reading after the initial stages, ‘There was accordingly  a great need for material with adult content and simple  vocubulary and syntax; material should preferably be  divided into two categories, relating on the one hand  to books of practical interest and on the ‘other to  literary, cultural or historical subjects,  It had been felt by some that the Organization was  devoting too little attention to that vitally important  intermediate stage of reading which was a bridge  between early efforts and complete mastery, ‘It had  therefore been suggested that $45, 000 should be set  aside for that problem, Thé Director-General would  decide how such funds would be spent in detail; for  instance, ‘it would be desirable to have training courses  (in which connexion he would commend the excellent  work accomplished by the Organization of American  States), visiting missions of experts to an area where  production of such material was going on without  knowledge of the latest skills, and a conference within  a given aréa to co-ordinate the work being done; The  problem raised certain difficulties, ‘as the production  of material was very often localized; none the less there  were a number of general skills, stich as illustration,  which could be brought from one area to anothèr:  His delegation did not envisage trañsterring any  funds befween sectors of the budget, as it was of the-  opinion that educational work should go forward in the  same area as cultural ‘activities; 1t might even prove  desirable to build up such work into a major pr ject.  He then submitted a formal ‘proposal that an additional  $90, 000 be allotted to the Iinterdepartmental’ project on  reading materials’ for new literates’ and that the  Director-General be requested to prepare, for present-  ation to the Executive Board, a work plan that would  +Mocate approximately half the increase to each of the
54 Sirtments of Educasion and Cultural Activities.
(4). ‘Mr. SAIYIDAIN' (India) attached the greatest  importance to the project under consideration and  recalled that his delegation had in fact presented a  draft resolution recommending that it be developed  into a major project, as it could go far towards meeting  Unesco's alms. He agreed with the New Zealand  delegate on the three ‘stages through which new litérates  passed, For his own part, he was not na position to  state exactly in what proportion the additional funds  should be divided between the Departments of Education  and Cultural Activities and preferred to leave that to  the discretion of the Secretariat,  He stressed the importance of adopting an imaginative  attitude in the selection of material for the third and  last stage, A wealth of worthwhile material existed  and Unesco could do much towards making it available  at moderate prices; authors in the different cointries  could, in turn, ensure a greater dissemination of such  works through translations.
1V-27  Paragraph 144 under Project 4, 641 related to  action by the Organization in producing booklets of  that type, The annual budgetary provision of $5, 000  for that purpose struck him as inadequate and, if no  increase had already been proposed in that sum, he  would urge that a more farsighted view be adopted,  so as to encourage development of material which  could promote international understanding, Unesco  might also consider the possibility of giving awards  for outstanding books which furthered that aim, thus  making the translation of such books more likely, He  was not, however, in favour of a proposal in the  programme that Unesco should provide funds to  assist Member Statés themselves in giving such  awards.  He would welcome training courses, as had been  suggested by the New Zealand delegate, ‘provided that  they were not too costly, A method should be devised  whereby experts from within the region were used as  much as possible, He would also welcome the holding  of conferences, particularly on the improvement of  book production,
(6) -Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) noted  that th& discussion on reading material for new  literates had produced à number of clear and con-  structive proposals, .The project was, ‘pot. a new one,  and the Departments of I Education and Cultural  Activities had already been co-operating closély in  it, Activities bad 50 far been concentrated on the  countries of South East Asia, in particular Burma,  Ceylon, India and Pakistan, À regional seminar had  been held in 19 6 in-Pakistan. It was on ‘the basis of  the experience acquired through the co-operation of  those four. Member ‘States that ihé Secretariat had  been able to draft its plans for the future.  The discussions in the Programme Commission  the ‘adult an aspect, “The Dep irtment of Mass  Communication was also interested in that’ project,’  so far as fhe p reparation, circulation and publication  of periodicals Por pe hyve were concerned,  acceptable,  of $90, 000 mentioned in document no
4, was to be allocated for the project, the Director-  General would submit to the Exééutive Board a revised  work plan allowing’ for part of that sum te be ear-  marked for the Department of Educatioh, and the  remainder for thé Department of Cultural Activities,  It might perhaps be advisable to use different names  for the various aspects of the project, so as to avoid  confusion,
(6) Mr. HLA (Union ‘ot Burma) agreed with the  proposal to inérease the finds ‘available for the project  under discussion, He would not oppose the Indian  delegate!s. suggestion that the division of that  increase should bé left to the Director-General, but  emphasized most strongly that by far the gréater  part should, in his vièw, be allocated to Cultural  Activities, and particularly to Project 4,641.  He did not entirely agree with the New ‘Zealand
460  PROGRAMME COMMISSION  delegate's emphasis on the educational aspect of  such material, Where adult education was concerned,  literacy would be satisfactorily achieved only if adult  illiterates were made to feel it was a cultural neces-  sity. Logically, therefore, the production of reading  material should be considered under Cultural  Activities.
(7) Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  thought the views of the Burmese representative very,  similar to those he had expressed himself, If half  the $90, 000 mentioned in Corrigendum 4 to ho
9C/5 were allocated to the Department of Education,  that Department would be receiving a total of $115, 000  for the project, including the estimates given in  documents 9C/5 and Corrigendum 1; the Department  of Cultural Activities, on the other hand, would be  receiving $164, 000 for the same project, the Exchange  of Persons Service $8, 700 and the Department of Mass  Communication $7, 000,
(8) Mr, SAIYIDAIN (India) suggested, in view of the  remarks made by the delegate of Burma, that the New  Zealand delegate might accept an amendment to his  text so that it would read: "in such proportion as the  Secretariat may find necessary".
(9) Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand) would prefer to  maintain his proposal as it stood, He felt that the  word "approximately" left the way open for a  reasonable interpretation of the situation by the  Director-General. At all events, it should be borne  in mind that his proposal would halve only the increase  in funds; the original funds weighed in favour of  Cultural Activities. ‘
(10) Mr, SAIYIDAIN (India) would not press his  amendment, in view of that statement.
(11) The New Zéaland proposal was adopted by 44  votes to none, with 9 abstentions,
(12) The Report of Working Party No. 3 on Fundamental  Education (document 9C/PRG/27) was adopted unan-  imously,
(13) The CHAIRMAN drew the Commission's attention  to the resolution contained in paragraph 45(b) of that  document, which would thén be interpolated in the  Programme and Budget (document 9C/5) as resolution
1.41, the existing resolution 1,41 becoming resolution 1.42,
(14) Resolutions 1, 41 and 142 were adopted unanimously.  (Mrs, Myrdal (Sweden) took the Chair. )
(15) The CHAIRMAN then called attention to thc Annex  to the Report of the Working Party, which contained  the definition of fundamental education proposed by  the Working Party.
(16) Mr. ZIMIN (Union of Soviet Soclalist Republics)  proposed that the definition of fundamental education  should include a mention of the literacy campaign.
(17) Mr. PAYE (France) (Rapporteur of the Working  Party on Fundamental Education) pointed out that  although the definition did not actually contain the   PROGRAMME  word "literacy", the idea of literacy was included  because it spoke of the body of knowledge and skill  required for the improvement of living conditions,  There was no objection to making that 1dea more  explicit; it was simply that members of the Working  Party had thought it unnecessary to do so.
(18) Mr. SAIYIDAIN (India) believed that the second  paragraph of the definition called for further clarifi-  cation, The meaning might be clearer if it were to  read: "Fundamental education seeks to develop, with  due regard for religious beliefs, moral values and a  sense of the solidarity of mankind",
(19) Mr. PAYE France) (Rapporteur of the Working  Party on Fundamental Education) recalled that the  second paragraph of that definition had been added to  the original text for further clarification, The Work-  ing Party thought that the development of moral  values and a sense of the solidarity of mankind should  be inculcated as part of fundamental education, It was  also important to avoid undermining traditional  values in any way.
(20) The definition proposed by the Working Party was  adopted with 2 abstentions,
(21) The CHAIRMAN drew attention to the draft  resolution contained {n paragraph 46 of the Report  of the Working Party, and to the explanations thereon  in paragraph 47, The Working Party recommended  the adoption of the draft resolution, omitting the  words in parentheses, paragraph (a) of the resolution  having no budgetary implications, as the proposals  would be covered under the regular activities, and  paragraph (b) having the character of a recommend-  ation for the work plan,
(22) Mr. PAYE (France) sald that the draft  resolution reflected his delegation's regrét that  Unesco's programme, for the first time, contained  no general fundamental ‘education project, apart from  the seminars to be organized : at the two Céntres at  Patzcuaro and Sirs-el- -Layyan. "The programme was  limited merely to allocating funds, ‘and made no  provisiôn for new studies or reseätth: The Working  Party had come to the conclusion that’ fundamental  éducation was ohe of the master concepts’ and one of  the most ‘useful activities of Uneséo; and in view of  its importance, that work should be continued, -  especially since the discussions of the Working Party  had revealed wide divergencies in practical activities  which, though’ doubtless due in part to the existence  of a corresponding variety of social conditions, did  indicate that there were certain shortcomings in the  matter of exchange of information, and that resources  were inadequate, Another point to be stressed was  the importance of a knowledge of social psychology  and of the use of vernacular languages in fundamental  education, Those were the points with.which  paragraph (a) of the French draft resolution {document
9C/PRG/2T, paragraph 46) dealt,  The draft resolution contained in paragraph 48 of  document 9C/PRG/27 referred to a major project  proposed by France in 1955. The French delegation  asked that the project be examined with the object  of implementing it in the course of the next few years.
461  COMMISSION     IV-27
(23) The CHAIRMAN then put to the vote the draft  resolution recommended by the Working Party in  paragraph 46, which, if adopted, would become  resolution 1, 43 in the main programme and budget  document.
(24) The resolution was adopted unanimously,
(26) The CHAIRMAN drew attention to paragraph 49  of the Report, which the Working Party recommended  should have the form of a resolution.
(26) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) .  thought it might be better for the Commission not to  adopt so categorical a resolution at that stage, since  it might well receive proposals for new major projects  for every Department, The Commission might  perhaps say: "suggests that the Director-General  study the possibility of a major project".
(27) The CHAIRMAN proposed that, instead of  adopting a formal resolution, the Commission  approve a recommendation requesting the Director-  General to include the proposal among those being  studied in the preparation of future major projects.
(28) Mr. PAYE (France) approved the ‘suggestion put  forward by Mr. Thomas and taken up by the Chairman,
(29) That recommendation was adopted unanimously,
(30) The CHAIRMAN said that the Coinmission would  be required to revert to Chapter 4, Cultural Activities,  in order to take action on resolutions 4. 63 and 4, 64  which were companion resolutions to those just  adopted.
(31) Resolutions 4. 63 and 4, 64 were adopted unan-  imously.
1,5 Adult Education (paragraphs 177. to 192)
1,6 Work with Youth (paragraphs 193 to 212)
(32) The CHAIRMAN called attentiofi to the revised  resolution 1, 51 contained in document 8C/6 Corrigendum
1 (page 11). The Commission should also note the  figure of $27, 500 given in the Director-General's new  proposals (document 9c/5 Corrigendum 4, page 5) in  respect of the restoration of provision for adult  education activities to the 1955-1956 level (without  the Consultative Committee).
(33) Mr. SHEARMAN (United Kingdom) aid not wish  to speak on adult éducation as a whole but merely to  make somé geiieral comments. He was glad that the  Director-General had restored the provision of-  $27, 500 but would welcome some more detailed  information on the position,  In common with many othérs, his delegation felt  that adult education was a field where, for a  comparatively small outlay, Unesco could achieve  fruitful results, as the Organization would enjoy the  support of voluntary érganizations and trade unions,  which it should encourage, Education for social and  political responsibilities constituted one of the major  themes of the world today.   Iv-27  He recalled thé extremely ‘valuable Conference on  © Adult Education held in Eleinore in 1949; an important  practical result of that Conférence had been the  setting up of the Consultative Committee on Adult  Education, in which Unesco had sought to provide for  representation of the voluntary organizations that,  in the main, represented consumer interests, so to  speak, It was apparent 1 from the documents that  financial provision rio longer existed for that  Committee. He would, however, urge that occasional  meetings of the Committee should be erivisaged by  Unesco in respect of 1957 and 1858, Although it had  been suggested that the Ditéctor-General had received  all the advice he needed for the time being, Mr,  Shearman considered it important that there should  be en opportunity to get up-to-date information on  progress,
(34) Mr, ESTABLE (Uruguay) wanted to know whether  the time had come to study the proposal he had  presented, It concerned a problem which he thought  very important, _namely the’ éombination of work and  culture, ‘In his'view, 'as was suggested in thé‘ ‘said  proposal, thé working day should be divided éjeen  (a) work and (b) culture, Though hé was propos ing  that the eight-hour working day might bé split up,  for example, - into six hoürs of work and two hours of  culture, there was no reason why évery country  should not divide up the time as it thought best, He  thought the recommendation to bé ‘made’ by Ünesco  to Member States should be based on that principle,  The Uruguayan delegate thought | the adoption of  that system would do much fo save workers from being  stupified by hard toil. Hé thought the division of  mankind into the educated and the ignorant was more  unjust than the division into rich and poôr, and added  that the unedicated worker, was à slave, He recalled  Aristotle's conclusion that the slave was a slave by  nature and his saying that when the shuttle moved by  itself it would be free, But the shuttle now moved by  itself and its freedom had to be recognized,  In conclusion, he ‘said that, when dealing with adult  education, the Commission should take into account  the recommendation of the Uruguayan delegation  concerning the combination of work and culture,
(35) Mr, ERIKSSON (Sweden) consigered that  paragraph 117 of section 1,5 gave very valid reasons  pointing to the need for adult:education. Ît was there-  fore a matter. tor concern when, in splte of those’  reasons, there was an apparent decrease in the  budgetary provision under that head, Indeed, taking  into account the fact that it was Unesco's duty to  promote international ‘understanding, . as well as the  real need which existed for further. orlentation of  adult education | towards such understanding, it would  have been logical to have increased the amount  available as compared with 1955-1956, At all events,  it was essential to maintain the 1957- 1958 allocations  at that same level, including provision for meetings  of the Consultative Committee, the desirability of  which the United Kingdom delegate had so rightly  stressed, It was moreover to be hoped that a  conference, similar to the 1949 Elsinore Conference,  could be arranged in the near future,  He had been pleased to note that the Report of the  Working Party had established a close link between
462     PROGRAMME COMMISSION  fundamental and adult education, It should also be  realized that adult education should be the concern  not only of highly-developed countries but of all’  Member States,
(36) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) supported the  remarks made by the delegate of Sweden,
(37) Mr, GUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education), replying to the’ Swedish representative,  sald that there had been no further decrease in the  p roposed appropriations for assistance to adult  e ducation activities, since provision was made for  a transfer of $16,000 a year to Major Project 4A,  which was closely linked with adult education (cf,  paragraph {88 of Corrigendum 1 to document 9C/5),
(38) Mr. CHASE (Bureau of Programme and Budget)  pointed out that the Director-General's proposal,  contained in document 9C/5 Corrigendum 4, for an  increase of $27, 500 would in fact bring the allocation  back to the 1955-1956 level,
(39) Mr. SHEARMAN (United Kingdom) pointed out  that the provision would not cover meetings of the  Consultative Committee.
(40) Mr, GUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education) explained that although the Secretariat  had proposed to restore the appropriations to the
1955-1956 level, it had not included in its proposals  a meeting of the Consultative Committee during the
(41) Mr. PAZUR (Czechoslovakla) announced that his  delegation was prepared to withdraw its draft  resolutions 9C/DR/62 and 9C/DR/ 63 in order to speed  up the discussion, since its wishes had been met by  the adoption of the Czech amendment to resolution
(42) Mr. KUPPERS (Federal Republic of Gorman)  agreed with the United Kingdom delegate, He welcomed  the fact thal the budgetary allocation had been restored  to the earlier level but was deeply concerned at the  deletion of the provisionfor the Consultative Committee,  The participation of the organizations concerned in  adult education was essential if an atmosphere of  confidence were to be built up; moreover, the non-  governmental organizations covered a wide range of  interests and many of them had close Mnks with  Unesco, He was in favour of deciding to convene the  Consultative Committee on an annual basis.
(43) Mr. FERNBACH (United States of America) sald  that his delegation viewed the programme of adult  education with great enthusiasm, It had been  particularly concerned by the question of the Consul-  tative Committee on Adult Education and had discussed  the matter with the Director of the Department, He  understood that difficulties had been experienced with  regard to the size of the Committee and to proper  representation on it, It would, however, seem  possible to evolve a satisfactory system of rotation.  It was gratifying to see that many non-European  countries had served on the Committee, and he  felt that, with the co-operation of the Secretariat,   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  continuity could be ensured with such a system,  While the cost of some $6, 000 for such a  Committee seemed high, it could be readily appreciate  that adult education was a unique problem which called  for constant evaluation, It was, for instance,  particularly important to keep in touch with organiza-  tions grouping rural and urban workers, Since adult  education was a purely voluntary process, a  Committee grouping many bodies should be encouraged)  so that progress could be accelera‘ed,  He would support the German proposal to restore  the meetings of the Consultative Committee; no ’  financial increase was involved by such a decision  though it would doubtless mean that one or two fewer  seminars would be held,
(44) Mr, FRIZELL (United Kingdom) wished to make  a plea on behalf of youth, Whenever he met and  talked with youth groups, as he had done in India,  the question of how other countries could be visited  invariably arose, The desire to léarn more of other  ways of life and other cultures could not bd ignored,  What was needed was an imaginative scheme which  would provide for cheap travel and accommodation.  By encouraging such visits, Unesco would be  creating a reservoir of mutual respect and friendship  between countries, thus providing the soundest  possible basis for its work, Visits of that type would  also be very useful in improving and enlivening study  projects, He cited the example of a pllot experiment  undertaken in Europe, under the auspices of the  European Committee of Youth Hostels, which’  organized off-sea=on charter flights linked with  hostels and émergency school accommodation, That  experiment was stimulating and along the right lines  and might ultimately be developed on a global basis.  Unésco might wish to consider the possibility of  granting aid to that project.
(45) The CHAIRMAN said that point could also be  discussed under Chapter 6, Exchange of Persons,
(46) Mr; GUITON (Acting Directot, Department of  Education) emphasized that the Secretariat’ attached  very great importance to adult education, That  explained why funds hid beén allocated to that  activity directly the Organization's budget had been  increased. None the less, the cost of an annual  meeting of the Consultative Coniinitteé would, he  thought, dbsorb toc high a proportion of the total  budget for adult education, which was at thé moment  $188,000, including the extra $27, 500 (cf. document
9C/5 Corrigendum 4), whereas each meeting of the  Committee cost $11, 400, Two méetings. of the  Committee would thus absorb the major part of the  additional fuñids allocated for adult dducation, The  Committee had airéady given the Secretariat a number  of ideas and suggestions which it had not yet been  possible to put into practice, It ‘would thérefore seem  pilot projects undertaken by non-governmental  organizations, for the organization of seminars,  and for participation in Member States! activities  in that field, That did not mean that the  Secretariat had no wish to continue calling on the  Consultative Committee's services in the  uture,
(47) Mr, CALO (Italy) was pleased that the adult  education budget had been restored to its original  level. He thought activities in that sphere should  go on expanding steadily in the future. As modern  society evolved, the problems of adult education  were increasing and bécoming more and more  serious and complicated. Mr. Calo supported the  proposal of the representative of the Federal  Republic of Germany,
(48) Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that, since the Organization's programme  had become biennial, several ‘advisory committees  met only oncé évery two years - the Advisory Com-  mittéé où Bibllography, for instance, and the  International Committee on Monuments,  He remarked further that the Executive Board at’  {ts meeting in July 1956 had been concerned about the  number and variety of advisory committees and the  divergencies between their statutes. It had decided  to go into the question and had recommended that,  meanwhile, the statutes of all advisory committees  should be regarded as provisional. There was no  justification for an exception being made in the case  fn question.
(49) Mrs, MEHTA (India) hoped that, if the German  proposal were accepted, the Consultative Committee  would have a fair proportion of women on it, in view  of the tremendous importance of the education of  adult women,
(50) Mrs. TEJEIRA (Panama) said she had intended to  make the same comment as the ‘Indian delegate had  just done, In regions where adult éducation needed  improving, women's éducation certainly’ needed it  even more. She theréfore asked that the group of  experts on adult éducation to advise the Director-  General should include an adequdte number of women,  whose services would be very useful.
(51) Mr, RUSKO (Ukrainian Soyiet ‘Soctalist Republic),  referring to section 1,6, remarked | that the Executive  Board, at its last session, had emphasized the  importance of work with youth, Youth festivals and  international students' movements should be used  as a means of ‘strengthening the sense of international  solidarity, Mr, Rusko suggested adding to the end of  resolution 1. 61 a note to the effect that international  youth festivals and students’ organizations should be  enlisted to help in Unesco's work,
(52) Mr, ZEISSL (Austria) strongly supported the  German proposal, It was most important for the  non-governmental organizations to be consulted in  connexion with Unesco's activities in adult education,  and he would accordingly recommend the restoration  of the status quo,  {63) Mr. ERIKSSON (Sweden) was grateful for the  clarification given by the Secretariat in respect o of  the exact budgetary. situation,  He emphasized the importance of activities  connected with youth in Unesco's programme, The  youth of Sweden showed a keen interest in Unesco,  as was illustrated by the holding of a mesting of 40 -  out of the 50 Swedish youth organizations to discuss   IV-27 PROGRAMME  Unesco's programme; a further meeting would be  held at the end of the current session to discuss the  action taken. Such real enthusiasm was worthy of  support, He proposed that the budget for 1957-1958  in connexion with work with youth be restored to its  previous level, particularly as far as the provision  for associated youth enterprises (paragraphs 200 and
201) was concerned,
(54) Mr, /IHEARMAN (United Kingdom) had been  surprised to hear the Secretariat's opposition to the  proposaf to reinstate the Consultative. Committee,  He had heen disturbed by the comparison established  by the Directôr-General's representative between  that Commitee and the Committee on Monuments;  surely, the situation in those two réspects was by no  means parallel, as the education of adults was one  of the most crucial items of Unesco's work,, partic-  ularly in view of the points raised in the Commission  regarding the vital need for progress in the question  of women's education, The Consultative Committee  should be consulted on women's education as well  as on the ‘question of a possible link between adult  education and Major Project’ 4A, He urged that an  undertaking be given to hold one meeting of the  Consultative Committee in 1957 to consider those two  items, and that the Director-General should leave  the way open to hold a second meeting in 1958 if it  were {ound necessary,
(55) Mr. LORTIE |Cériada) $id that his ‘country had  always been interested in the problem of adult  education and had ‘done pioneer work in that field,  He was therefore glad | to note that the budget tor  that activity had been restored’ to ‘the original level.  The statements by the Assistant’ Director-General  and the Actiñg Direcior.of the Department of  Education had shaken, his, conviction about the .  expediency of holding annual ‘meetings’ of the Consul:  tative Commiilée and hé therefore supported the  proposal of the United Kingdom representative and  suggested that the Committee meet every two years.  The Committee might well make an evaluation of the  methods used in adult education which at the moment  varied very widely. according | to circumstances.
(56) Mr, SIDDIQUI (Pakistan) thought that the  Consultative Comniittge should also study measures  to assist young people, who had been obliged to leave  school at an early age to becomé wage-earners, in  remaining literate, It was essential that Unesco  should intensify its action in that respect,
(57) Mr. EKANAYAKA (Ceylon) appreciated the  arguments in favour of retaining the Consultative  Committee but was, on the whole, inclined to support  the Secretariat's view.
(58) Mr, FERNBACH (United States of America)  believed that, as could be seen from the documents,  the Sécretariat had intended gradually to dissolve  thé Consultative Committee, which had done useful  work over five years, without consulting it, That  was, in his view, à matter for concern, His delega-  tion supported the German proposal, although it  might agree to the possibility of the Committee's  meeting once every two years,  COMMISSION
(59) Miss TRINIDAD (Philippines) supported those  speakers who had been in favour of the representation  of women on the Consultative Committee.  She also welcomed the references to work .  accomplished with youth. Every opportunity should .  be taken to train youth for their coming responsibilities  in promoting international culture and understanding,
(60) Mr, CHASE (Bureau of Programme and Budget)  made it clear that the amount of $9, 550 shown in  paragraph 185 referred only to delegates! travel,” To  that would have to'be added $1, 810 for conference -  services, making a total of $11, 360 for two meetings  of the Committee, That amount would be found within  the sum of $27, 600 shown in document 9C/5 Corrigendum
4 and no extra budgetary provision was involved.
(61) Mr, MATIC (Yugoslavia) said that the section of  the programme relating to adult education had been  very carefully studied by the Yugoslav National  Commission, and that his delegation hoped very much  to see that Unesco activity increased, He recommended  that the Secretariat publish the results achieved in  workers! education in various countries,  He thought the estimates for youth activities  inadequate: the 1957-1958 budget provided for only  $60, 000 a year, including the funds the Commission  recommended granting to the Gauting Institute,  which was less than 1 per cent of the total Unesco  budget, He emphasized all the advantages the Organiza-  tion stood to gain from collaboration with national and  international youth movements, and hoped that the  programme to be presented to the General Conference  at its next session would pay more attention to those  activities,
(62) Mr, WEEDEN (Australie) felt that the greatest  service Unesco could perform in the field of adult  education was to inspire others, The organizations  represented on the Consultative Committee did not  merely advise the Secretariat but were themselves  equipped to work in that sphere. That should be  borne in mind when a decision was taken on the  future of the Committee,  ( 53) Mr. RAFE-UZ- ZAMAN (World University  Servize) was grateful for the opportunity to address  the meeting. -  He wondered whether Unescols | programme took  sufficient account of the needs and potentialities of  university communities, which were clearly  appropriate spheres in which to seek to foster the  spirit of Iritéfnational éb- “operation and understand-  ing, and which exercised a great influence on  intellectual thought” and on public opinion generally;  indeed, in 'many parts of the World, most leaders of  public lite were university ‘graduates,  The World University Service had been in existence  for some (hirty years and its policy of assistance  between university communities had always been  permeated with a spirit similar to that guiding  Unesco's activities, He would urge the Commission  to consider whether Uriesco could not, in thé future,  intensify its work with regard to universiiies under’  the headings of Technical Assistance, Cultural  Activities and Exchange of Pérsons. Pilot projects  which would seek to {improve students’ living   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  conditions in youth hostels, etc., would also be  particularly useful, The question of the picture of  Asia given in Western textbooks on the East also  deserved study with regard to university textbooks.
(64) Mr, BERKELEY (Secretary) then read out à  proposal submitted by the Italian delegation to amend  resolution 1, 51 (documeni 6C/5 Corrigendum 1, page
11), which would affect the part to be playod by  universities in adult education,
(65) Mr, CALO (Italy) said his amendment was  intended to be incorporated in the resolution, and  had no budgetary implications,
(86) The CHAIRMAN would have been prepared to  consider the Italian amendment if il had merely  consisted in a brief mention of universities to be  inserted in the resolution. She ruled, however, that  it was a new draft resolution and accordingly could  not be deemed receivable at that late juncture,
(67) Mr. KUPPERS (Federal Republic of Germany)  proposed an amendment to resolution 1,51, consist-  {ng in the addition of à new paragraph (C) reading:  "by calling at least one meeting of the Consultative  Committee on Adult Education,"
(68) That proposal was adopted by 48 votes to none,  with 5 abstentions.
(69) Mr, CALO (Italy) said the only form in which  he could submit his amendment was as a separate  resolution,
(70) Resolution 1.51, as amended, was adopted  unanimously,
(11) Mr, SAIYIDAIN (India), commenting on paragraph
204 relating to the production of materials for the  international education of young people, said that,  in future, projects should be more carefully selected  with a view to having less limited interest than  those referred to. The production of an album or a  filmstrip on life in different countries, in the spirit
1V-27  of the United States photographic exhibition, "The  Family of Man", would seem to be in closer  contact with Unesco's objectives as it would give the  impression of belonging to a common world, The  development of that concept was of inestimable  value, both with youth and at the adult level,
(72) The CHAIRMAN noted that a draft resolution  submitted by the Austrian delegation in connexion  with the item under consideration had been withdrawn,
(73) Mr, ESTABLE (Uruguay) asked whether the  proposal submitted on 14 November by the Uruguayan  delegation, relating to adult education and the work-  ing day, would be considered or not, He recalled  that the proposal was the onc which he had advocated  in an earlier speech.
(74) The CHAIRMAN said that she would give that  information as soon as it was available,  She noted, with regard to resolution 1.61, that a  proposal had been made by Sweden, and duly  seconded, for restoration to the 1955-1956 budget  level,
(75) Mr. GUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education) said that, if the estimates were restored  to the 1955-1956 level, it would mean an increase  of $10, 100, which would be used for aid to  associated youth enterprises,
(76) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) mentioned that _  resolution 9C/DR/112, submitted by the French  delegation, related to work with youth and proposed  that the question of the rôle of sport in education be  taken up again, Mr. Frangois reserved the right  to revert to the subject at the next meeting,  an Resolution 1,61 was adopted with 1 abstention,
(78) The Swedish proposal to increase the sums  available under paragraphs 201 to 203 by $10, 100  was adopted by 42 votes to none, with 6 abstentions,  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.