3 December 1956, at 3 p.m.  - Chairman: Mr, DAVIES (Australia)  later: Mr. SAVAIN (Haiti)
(1) The CHAIRMAN called the meeting to order and,  there being no quorum, announced that, in accordance  with Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference, he would adjourn the meeting for the  statutory period of ten minutes,  (The meeting adjourned for ten minutes.)
(3) There being still no quorum at the end of that  period, the CHAIRMAN asked the delegates present  it they would agree temporarily to waive the provisions  of paragraph 2 of Rule 69. It was so agreed.  MEMBERSHIP OF THE HEADQUARTERS COMMITTEE  (document 9C/NOM/32)
(3) The CHAIRMAN explained that the existing  membership of the Headquarters Committee, as  indicated in part III of document 9C/NOM/32, totalled
14 Member States, There was no specific proposal  before the meeting, but some delegations had felt  that, owing to the increase in the number of the  Member States of Unesco since the appointment of  the Headquarters Committee, the size of that  Committee should be increased, Some delegations  felt also that a certain number of the existing members  should be re-elected so as to ensure a degree of  continuity in the work of the Committee, He sought  the views of the Commission on those suggestions,  as it was felt that the Commission should make  concrete recommendations thereon for the guidance  of the Nominations Committee,
(4) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) felt that, so far,  the Headquarters Committee had functioned very  economically, working in only one language, and that,  if that system could be maintained, its membership  might well be increased, since the number of Unesco's  Member States had risen and the activities and  responsibilities of the Committee had grown. In his  view, the membership of the Committee might be  increased to 19 in order for it to function efficiently.
(5) Speaking from experience as a member of the  Headquarters Committees, the CHAIRMAN explained  that the Committee normally worked with consecutive  interpretation into and from English and French, the  Spanish-speaking members having, without prejudice  to their right to have interpretation into and from  Spanish, agreed to waive that right,
(6) The proposal of the delegate of Spain was  seconded by the delegate of Japan.
(7) Mr, BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia) supported the  Spanish delegate's proposal as he thought that, since
651  French and English were the only two languages used  in that Committee, Member States might try to send  as representatives persons who spoke one of those  languages.
(8) Mr, MUNRO (Australia) proposed also that at  least one-third of the existing members of the  Committee be maintained, in order to ensure some  continuity in the Committee's work.
(8) The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to vote on  the proposal that the membership of the Headquarters  Committee be increased to 19, on the understanding  that only French and English would be used in its  proceedings, and that in the interests of continuity,  one-third of the existing members would be retained,
(10) That proposal was adopted unanimously.
(11) Replying to a question from the delegate of the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the CHAIRMAN  explained that French and English had been used  during the proceedings of the Headquarters Committee  without prejudice to the theoretical right of the  Spanish-speaking delegates to have interpretation into  and from Spanish, That proviso would also apply to  any other woriting language of the General Conference,  DRAFT REPORT ON STAFF QUESTIONS (document 9C/ADM/PROV/8)
(12) Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium) (Rapporteur) read out  the draft report contained in document 9C/ADM/8,
(13) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on Part A,  Personnel Policy, Section I, Recruitment and  Appointment of Staff Members, of the report. In that  connexion, the Director-General proposed that the  word "representation" in the last-line of paragraph
(3){Li) of the draft resolution be replaced by "staff  allocr.tion", since use of thé word "representation"  carried the implication that members of the staff  represented their countries on the Secretariat.
(14) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) (Rapporteur) said  that, in the French text of the draft resolution XV,  the word used in the first line of paragraph (3)(b)(11)  was "répartition". ;
(15) The CHAIRMAN agreed that the French text was  acceptable, s0 that the problem was one of trans-  lation. The proposed amendment could therefore be  withdrawn but he would ask that the Secretariat  adjust the English, Spanish and Russian texts to the  French text.
(16) Mr, FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) said that there   v-25  was also a problem of translation in the Spanish  text, It was necessary, as had been agreed at a  previous meeting, to delete the words "sobre todo"  from paragraph (3)(a) and to revise the wording of  the Spanish version of sub-paragraph (il) which had  the same fault as the English text,
(17) The CHAIRMAN confirmed that the French text  would be used as the authoritative text,
(18) Mr, ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) agreed that the report constituted a fair  picture of the discussion that had taken place in the  Commission, but felt that some amendment was  necessary, particularly with respect to paragraph |.  He could not agree entirely with the téxt submitted  by the Rapporteur in that paragraph, since several  delegations had stated that, in their view, the  Director-General had not done enough to implement  the resolutions of the eighth session, The represen-  tative of the Director-General had himself referred  to the improvement that had taken place as a "trend"  in the right direction, so that the word "step"  appeared to be too strong, and should be replaced by  "trend" or "tendency". In any case, he felt that the  views of the Commission would be better reflected  if the last sentence of paragraph 1 were replaced by  a text an the linés of the following: "The Commission  noted that, during the past two years, there has been  no evidence of any more or less substantial  rectification by the Director-General of the abnormal  situation existing in the Secretariat as regards the  equitable geographical distribution provided for by  the resolutions of the eighth session of the General  Conference, and in particular as regards the  geographical distribution of important posts in the |  Secretariat, The Commission therefore feels that  the Director-General must take serious measures to  rectify the situation". Mr, Zhukov felt that a state-  ment on those lines would better reflect the spirit  of the Commission's discussions,  Referring to paragraph 24 of the report, Mr,  Zhukov asked for a clarification of the proposal made  by the delegate of France, He had not understood  that proposal in the way in which it was set forth in  the report. :  He asked, too, that both the Russian and the  Spanish texts be checked carefully against the  English and the French texts, as there appeared to  be a number of discrepancies, some of which  amounted to errors of substance,
(19) The CHAIRMAN noted that paragraph 24 con-  tained an error of punctuation, at least in the  English text, The second sentence of that paragraph  should read: "The amendment also provided for  advances from the Working Capital Fund up to  $300, 000, should savings be insufficient by a  specified date to meet the whole of the costs."
(20) Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) indicated that that rectification settled  the difficulty he had raised with respect to that  paragraph. .
(21) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  said that the Secretariat would have no objection to
652  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  the Commission's discussing the proposal of the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics with respect to  paragraph 1, although it felt that the summary records  of the Commicsion's meetings bore out the point of  view expressed by the Rapporteur rather than that  put forward by the Soviet delegate, The Secretariat  had given figures and full explanations of the  recruitment that had taken place in the period 1955-
1956, and the Commission had concluded that the  Director-General was doing his utmost, in the face  of a difficult situation, to implement the resolutions  of the eighth session. He agreed that the situation was  far from perfect, but he believed that a move had been  made in the right direction,
(22) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the proposal of  the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics was supported,
(23) That proposal was seconded. S
(24) Miss LAISE (United States of America) did not  believe that the formula proposed by the Soviet  delegate represented the general views of the Com-  mission, A certain amount of dissatisfaction with  the existing situation had been expressed, but the  Commission had nevertheless recognized that the  recruitment policy of the Director-General was  subject to the limitations Jmposed by the "  Constitution, which gave "competence" as the first ;  criterion for recruitment. In additon, the Director-  General had explained that he had taken over an  organization that had already been formed and that  he was bound to give some consideration to the career  possibilities of the existing staff, It would be unfair  to that staff to accept the amendment proposed by the  Soviet delegate.
(25) Upon a vote being taken, the amendment proposed  by the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics was rejected by 13 votes to 7, with 6  abstentions,
(26) Miss LAISE (United States of America) felt thaï  the report represented a great improvement over the  reports of the Commission's proceedings submitted’  in previous years, and that it would give the plenary  Conference a fair idea of the discussions that had  taken place In the Administrative Commission. Her  only point of criticism related to paragraph 3, which  she thought should be expanded,- to include reference  to the various resolutions and compromise proposals  that had been put forward, with, in each case, the  names of the sponsors and the relevant document  number. The plenary Conference would then be in 4  possession of all the facts, and would see how the |  Commission had reached its decision.  Miss Laise agreed to submit her proposal in  writing to the Secretariat.
(27) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) had no objection  to the proposal of the United States delegate if the  same was done with regard to the proposals of other  delegations, but he believed that the procedure was  neither customary nor in accordance with precedent.
(28) Mr, ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  asked whether the Commission would be prepared to  accept the proposal he had made if the first sentence  were amended to read "The delegation of the Union  of Soviet Socialist Republics expressed the view  that..." and the text of the amendment were added  to paragraph 1, instead of replacing the second  sentence thereof, He felt that all delegations had a  right to have their opinions expressed in the report  of the Commission, and drew attention to a number  of instances in the report where reference was made  to the views expressed by a given delegation,
(29) That proposal was seconded by the delegate of  the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic.
(30) The CHAIRMAN agreed that it was in order for  any delegation to move the inclusion of a particular  point of view in the report, but it was for the  Commission to decide by vote whether or not that  view should be inserted,
(31) Mr, FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) did not know  whether there was any rule on that point, but did not  think it necessary to take a vote on the Soviet  delegate's proposal, He thought the Commission  should be asked if there was any objection to  including the opinion of the Soviet delegation as, in  principle, all delegations had the right to request  that their views be included in the reports.
(32) The CHAIRMAN read the amended proposal of  the delegate of the Soviet Union, as follows:  “The USSR delegation expressed the view that,  during the past two years, there has been no evidence  of any more or less substantial rectification by the  Director-General of the abnormal situation existing  in the Secretariat as regards the equitable geographi-  cal distribution provided for by the resolutions of  the eighth session of the General Conference, and  in particular as regards the equitable geographical  distribution of important posts in the Secretariat.  In the view of the USSR delegation, therefore, it is  necessary for the Director-General to take serious  measures to rectify the situation.
(33) Upon a vote being taken, it was agreed, by 13  votes to 2, with 13 abstentions, to include that  statement at the end of paragraph 1 of the report.
(34) Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) thanked the Commission for its fair  and equitable decision.
(35) The CHAIRMAN then said that the amendment  to paragraph | 3 proposed by the delegate of the United  States of America would read somewhat as follows -  the Secrétariat fillirig in the blanks:  "After recommending that resolutions V. 2, 41 and  V. 2, 42 of the eighth session of the General Con-  terence be carried forward to 1957-1958, the  Commission considered a proposal put forward by  the delegations of... ..…...... (document...)  The debate occasioned by this proposal led to the  establishment of a Working Party to produce a  more acceptable formula, These negotiations  resulted in the compromise proposal contained in  document 9C/DR/84 Rev. 2, sponsored by the
653        V-25  delegations of... +... Ona motion of the  delegate of Japan, the compromise proposal was  amended by a vote of...,...,, to restrict appli-  cation of the quota system where the present system  might have unduly restrictive implications for small  contributor countries. The amended propesal was  adopted by a vote of..."
(36) That arnendment was seconded by Mr, MUNRO  (Australia), who felt that the text proposed was a  factual statement which covered the various points  discussed by the Commission,
(37) Upon a vote being taken, the amendment to  paragraph 3 proposed by the delegate of the United  States of America was adopted by 26 votes to 0, with
4 abstentions,
(38) Replying to a request for clarification from the  delegate of India with respect to paragraph 3(b){il)  of the draft resolution, Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of  Personnel and Management) explained that the  question of the minimum and maximum number of  posts to be allocated to any one Member State was a  matter for consideration by the Director-General;  but he had thought that the draft resolution had been  worded precisely to ensure that the problem would  not be handled in hard terms of minimum énd maximum  numbers, The whole situation was difficult and was  complicated by a number of other factors, and he had  understood that the movers of the draft resolution  had wished to leave the matter open, so that the  Director-General might be able to take those other  factors into consideration,  (Mr. Savain (Haiti) took the Chair, )
(39) Mr, FAIREY (Canada) felt that the discussions  justified the insertion of the following text at the end  of paragraph 2;  "Some other delegates indicated that they believed  that better geographical distribution was desirable,  but stressed that steps in this direction should con-  form to the criteria set out in Article vi of the  Constitution, "
(40) Upon a vote bi ing taken, that proposal was  adopted by 10 votes to 2, with 14 abstentions,
(41) Replying to a iequest for clarification from the  delegate of the Unidn of Soviet Socialist Republics,  Mr, FAIREY (Canada) explained that the only object  of his amendment had been to reflect more accurately  the discussions of the Commission. He had not sald  “The majority of delegates telt,,..", but merely  "Some delegates indicated, ,,.'; several delegates  had indeed pointed out that the Director-General, in  his recruitment policy, was obliged to conform to the  criteria laid down in the Constitution.  {42) Mr, SILLER (Mexico) said that the text  should mention the names of the delegations  taat had supported the attitude reflected in the  Canadian delegation's proposal, as he con-  sidered that they were rather few in  number in comparison with other voling  figures.   V-25
(43) Raising a point of order, Mr, MUNRO (Australia)  pointed out that the amendment in question had already  been adopted, Discussion thereof should therefore be  closed,
(44) The CHAIRMAN remarked that, if every delega-  tion asked for the insertion in the “eport of a few  semences giving its own point of view, the document  was likely to become unwieldy and the work of the  Commission would be seriously delayed,
(45) Mr, SILLER (Mexico) explained that he had not  proposed that the voting figures on the Canadian  proposal should be included, but thé names of the  delegations who supported the attitude it reflected,  He agreed that the procedure prolonged discussion  unduly but it was in accordance with the principle  that was being followed that afternoon,
(46) Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium) (Rapporteur) pointed  out that the summary records of the Commission  already set forth the opinions expressed by the  various delegations, In his opinion, the report should  be a concise document giving the General Conference  a quick idea of the reasons behind the draft resolutions  submitted for its approval, Otherwise, it would be  liable simply to duplicate the summary records.
(47) Mr, ARTHUR (United Kingdor:) shared the views  expressed by the Chairman and the Rapporteur. He  appealed to his colleagues on the Commission not to  attempt to turn the report into a summary record of  the discusztons of the Commission, but to keep it  brief and to the point.
(48) Mr, ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  was unable to agree, Since there were a considerable  number of references in the report to the views  expressed by certain delegations, there was no reason  why other delegations should not be allowed to include  their points of view. He believed that it was the  common practice of the Commissions of the United  Nations and other Agencies adequately to reflect in  their reports the views expressed by different  delegations,
(49) Mr, SILLER (Mexico) again urged that the report  include the names of the delegations supporting the  views expressed by the Canadian delegate.
(60) The CHAIRMAN said he would refer to the -  summary records to discover which delegations had  supported the proposal referred to, and have their  names included in the report.  He then opened discussion on Section A. Il of the  draft report.
(51) Miss LAISE (United States of America) felt  that the text of paragraph 10 would be clarified if  the words “similar proposal" were replaced by  "proposal to incorporate details regarding the  Advisory Board in the Staff Regulations", She  further proposed that the words "scheduled to take  place in 1957" be added in the fourth line of that  paragraph, after the words "Staff Regulations".  At the same time, Miss Laise gave notice that her  delegation would introduce an amendment to draft
654  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  resolution XVI when that resolution came before the  plenary meeting,
(52) The amendments proposed by Miss Laise to '  paragraph 10 of the draft report were approved by
14 votes to 0 with 13 abstentions,
(53) Section A, II of the draft report, as amended, was  approved unanimously.
(54) Discussion was then opened on Section B. 1,
(55) Mr. MUNRO (Australia) felt that the last  sentence of paragraph 16 should be phrased In more  general terms, He believed that the Director-  General had at one stage stated that the proposal  could be carried out on two occasions, but he had  also stated that that might not be possible,
(56) Mr, ARTHUR (United Kingdom) also felt that the  paragraph required amendment, As worded in the  report, it seemed that it was the Intention of the  sponsors of the resolution that ''reasonable parity  should be achieved by granting smaller increases  than the increases in best prevailing rates on the  next two occaslons when the Unesco salary scale was  adjusted." That suggestion had actually come from  the Director-General, so that the text of that part of  paragraph 16 should read "the Director-General  informed the Commission that he would interpret the  resolution in such a way that parity would be  achieved,,....ete,"
(67) That proposal was seconded by the delegate of  Australia,
(58) Mr, FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) said thaf, without referring to the  summary record of the meeting in question, he  could not be categoric, but he believed that the  Director-General had qualified his statement regard-  ing the rate at which reasonable parity could be  achieved by saying that, whereas it might even be  possible to achieve that aim in one adjustment (if the  adjustment were a large one), it might, if there were  a series of small adjustments, be necessary to spread  the gradual decrease over three occasions, He there-  fore agreed with the delegate of Australia that the text  of paragraph 16 should be made more general, and  suggested that the words "if possible" might be  inserted.
(59) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  added that the Secretariat entirely agreed with the  delegate of the United Kingdom that the statement to  which he had referred should be identified as having  been made by the Director-General,
(60) Mr. JOCHAMOWITZ (Peru) thought that the first  and second sentences of paragraph 16 contradicted  each other. In any event, he could not clearly see the  point of the latter sentence.  (€1) Mr, FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) thought that there might be an error in  the Spanish translation of paragraph 15. However, he  would point out that that paragraph referred to the   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION V-25  case presented in the Director-General's report,  and not to any proposal made by delegations.
(62) Section B.1 was approved unanimously,
(63) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on Section B.  IL,
(64) Mr, MUNRO (Australia) noted that the expres-  sion "by à specified date" was used both in  peragraph 24 and in draft resolution XIX, He felt  that the actual date should be specified,
(65) Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium) (Rapporteur) pointed  out that paragraph 24 simply reproduced the wording  of paragraph 10 of resolution XIX, which the  Commission had already approved.
(66) Mr, MUNRO (Australia) agreed that that was so,  but pointed out that the text of paragraph 24 and of  draft resolution XIX would have no meaning unless a  specific date were Inserted,
(67) Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium) (Rapporteur) said that  the savings referred to in paragraph 24 could be made  at any {ime during 1957-1958, The sums withdrawn  from the Working Capital Fund should be repaid  before the end of that period, i.e, before 31 December
(68) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that, as the  Rapporteur had said, the Commission was discussing  the text of a resolution that it had already approved,
(69) Miss LAISE (United States of America) believed  that the intention behind the wording used was that if,  at the time the need for additional funds to meet  increased costs arose savings on thé programme were  insufficient to cover that need, the Director-General  would be authorized to draw on the Working Capital  Fund, up to a maximum of $300,000, The "specified  date" therefore meant merely the date at which the  need arose,
(70) After examination of the French text, and  consultation with the Rapporteur, Mr. FARR (Chief,  Bureau of Personnel and Management) suggested that  ‘a more correct translation of the French text into  English might be "at any given time".
(71) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) (Rapporteur) con- ’  sidered the French text of paragraph 24 satisfactory  and felt that it would be sufficient to make the  appropriate alterations In the other languages.
(72) That proposal was accepted, and the CHAIRMAN  then put Section B, II to the vote.
(73) The section was approved unanimously.
(74) The whole of the draft report, document 9C/ ADM/  PROV/8, as amended, was approved.
665     DRAFT REPORT ON: A. FINANCIAL QUESTIONS (Third Past);  B, BUDGET ESTIMATES FOR 1987-1088 (Paris I, III and IV)  (document 9C/ ADM/ PROV/9)
(75) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on Section  A.1 of the draft report, document 8C/ADM/PROV/9,
(76) Referring to the last two sentences of paragraph
4, Mr, ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  sald that there appeared to be a discrepancy between  the statement made in that paragraph, and the  statement made in paragraph 24 of document 9C/  ADM/PROV/8 with regard to the proposal of the  French delegation,
(77) Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium) (Rapporteur) reminded  the meeting that, during the session, the Director-  General had been authorized to draw from the Working  Capital Fund a sum of $300, 000 in 1957 and the same  sum in 1958, The Commission had been of the  opinion that a third sum of $300, 000 for the two-  year period should be added to the other two, That  was how the figure of $900, 000 shown in the last  line of paragraph 4 had been arrived at.
(78) Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) explained that; in paragraph 24 of  docurnent 9C/ADM/PROV/8, it was perfectly clear  that the additional expenditure over and above the  $200, 000 included in the budget for that purpose  would be met by savings on the programme, It was  on that understanding that his delegation had  accepted the proposal of the delegate of France,  Paragraph 4 of document 9C/ADM/PROV/8 however,  referred to the "extra sum, ...,...,. which the  Director-General may not be able to absorb by  economies in the 1957-1958 budget", There was  obviously à discrepancy in the two texts, at least  in the Russian version.
(79) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) (Rapporteur) referred  the delegaté of thé'Union of Soviet Socialist Republics  to paragraph 2{b) of draft resolution XX (page 2 of  document 9C/ADM/PROV/9); he pointed out that it  was closely linked with Séction B of draft resolution  XIX which the Commission had just approved in  document 9C/ADM/PROV/8. Paragraph 24 of the  same document contained all relevant information on  the question dealt with in that section, Mr, Baugniet  hoped that the information hé had given would make  the paragraph under discussion (paragraph 4 of i  document 8C/ADM/PROV/9) clear to everyone,
(80) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) agreed with the  Rapporteur that the Director-General was, in fact,  bound by the terms of the resolutions on that point,  and those ‘resolutions were'quite specific and,  consistent, However, hé also agreed with the dele -  gate of the Soviet Union that there was a slight  discrepdncy between the texts of the two paragraphs  he had quoted. He would therefore suggest that a  cross-reference to paragraph 28 of document
9C/ADM/PROV/8 be made in paragraph 4 of docu-  ment 8C/ADM/PROV/B, and that the words "at any  given time” be inserted in the latter paragraph after  the words "..... may not be able to absorb by  economies", the word "Budget being replaced by   v-25  "financial period", He also thought that the English  text of paragraph 4 would be more consistent if the  words "This extra sum is required" were replaced  by "This extra sum may be required”,
(81) The proposal of the United Kingdom delegate that  the words "is required" be replaced by "may be  required" in paragraph 4 was adopted,
(82) Section A.1, as amended, was approved  unanimously,
(83) Discussion was opened on Section A, II,
(84) Mr, MATSUI (Japan) proposed that the Commis-  sion decide immediately on that section,
(85) Section A, Il was approved unanimously,
(86) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on Section B.
(87) Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that it was not clear whether the word  "proposals" in paragraph 14 referred to the proposals  of the Working Party or the proposals of the Director-  General,
(88) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) (Rapporteur) explained  that the proposals referred to in paragraph 14 were  those contained in the Working Party's report.
(89) The CHAIRMAN added that the French text was  clear and that the other texts would be adjusted to  conform,
(80) Section B was approved unanimously.
(81) The whole of the draft report, document 9C/ADM/  PROV/9, as amended, was approved unanimously,  DRAFT REPORT ON OFFICIAL AND EXTERNAL REL ATIONS  (document 9C/ ADM/PROV/ 10)
(92) Discussion was opened on Section I of the draft  report,
(93) Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium) (Rapporteur) proposed  . that in paragraph 3 of draft resolution XXI (page 2),  the words "in Annex I of this document” be replaced  by "in document 9C/24 Annex I"!
(94) The proposal was accepted.
(95) Section I was approved unanimously,
(96) No éomments were made on Section II, which  was also approved unanimously,
(97) Discussion was then opened on Sections III and  IV.
(98) On the proposal of Mr, de HOOG (Netherlands),  it was decided that, in paragraph 6, the words "after  having accepted a number’, be replaced by "after  having examined a number!
666  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION
(99) On the proposal of Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium)  (Rapporteur), it was also decided that, in draft  resolution XXV (page 4), the words "approves the  formal agreement concluded" be replaced by  "approves the draft formal agreement to be concluded’,
(100) Sections OI and IV, as amended, were approved  without opposition, there being one abstention,
(101) Giving an explanation of his vote, Mr. ZHUKOY  (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) sald he had been  obliged to abstain, as the Russian text differed  somewhat from the French and English texts and he  had had insufficient time to make the necessary  comparison throughout and to ensure that he was  voting on the same text as other delegates,
(102) The CHAIRMAN stated that the Secretariat  would see to amending the Russian text,
(103) The whole of the draft report, document
9C/ADM/PROV/ 10, as amended, was approved  unanimously.
(104) Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that, in finalizing its report on the budget  estimates for 1957- 1958, Paris I, MandIV  (document 9C/ADM/ PROŸ/ 9, paragraphs 12 to 18),  the Commission should make ‘reservations concern.  ing two items upon which decisions had been taken  by the Programme Commission, whose budgetary  implications were to be considered by the forthcoming  joint meeting of the Administrative and Programme  Commissions. Thé first decision related to the  maintenance of the Regional Office for the Western  Hemisphere, and the second to the setting up of an  Arabic unit in the Bureau of Relations with Member  States,
(105), The CHAIRMAN agreed that the Commission  would make those two reservations in the final draft  of Part I1 B of its report, contained in document
9C/ADM/PROV/ 9,  DRAFT REPORT ON LEGAL QUESTIONS (Second part)  (document 9C/ADM/PROV/11)
(106) Mr. MATSUI (Japan) considered that the report  was a moat accurate reflection of the Commission's’  opinion. As, with the excéption of that dealt with in  paragraph 2, all the questions referred to therein had  already resulted in recommendations from the Legal  Committee, whose réport had already been approved  by the Commission, he proposed that the report as a  whole be put to the vote immediately.
(107) That proposal was accepted,
(108) Document 9C/ADM/PROV/11 was approved  unanimously,
(109) The CHAIRMAN, on behalf of the Commission  and himself, congratulated the Rapporteur on the  excellent work he had done.   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  V-25
(110) Mr, FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) sald that, before (111) The CHAIRMAN thanked the delegate of Spain  the meeting closed, the Commission would like to and promised to pass on his kind remarks to Mr.  thank the Chairmen and the Secretariat for the Davies,  efficient and enthusiastic way in which they had carried  ouf their respective tasks, The meeting rose at 5.50 p.m,