v-0  that a vote on the proposals made would take place at  the beginning of the afternoon meeting.  STEMS 13.6 AND 13,7 OF THE ACENDA | AMENDHENTS TO  “THE REGULATIONS AND ADMINIITRATIVE RULES OF THE  “UNITED NATIONS JOINT STAFF PENSION FUND ; ANNUAL  REPORT ON TEE UNITED NATIONS JOINT STAFF PENSION  FUND (document 9C/ADM/11)
(62) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) presented  Part Il of the document and drew attention to the one  substantive change in the Regulations of the Fund that  had been reported to, and approved by, the General  Assembly of the United Nations. The report was sub-  mitted for information only, and the General Confer-  ence was merely required to take note thereof.
(53) Thére being no comments, the CHAIRMAN  announced that the Administrative Commission would  recommend the General Conference to take note of  that report.  ITEM 13.6 OF TRE AGENDA : USE OF PENSION FUND CAPITAL  FOR HOUSING LOANS TO STAFF (document 9C/ADM/23)  {54) Sir Ben Bovyp THEYAS (United Kiigdom) (Rep-  resentative of the ¥-icutive Board) explained that the  Exc cutive Board at its’ 44th session had considered  the proposals made by the Secretary-General of the  United Nations and had adopted a resolution couched  in similar termu to that proposed by the Director-  polo on page 2 of document 9C/ADM/23:
(55) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) presented  document 9C/ADM/23 and explained the system  approved by the Investments Committee of the United  Nations, whereby loans would be made by the Pension  Fund to particpéting Agencies, which would then be  NINTH  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  responiible for making loans to individual members .  of their staff. The salient features of the plan were  outlined in paragraph 2 of the document, where it  would be seen that the loans to be made would not be :  large, the intention being merely to provide staff  members with the means to make the initial down-  payment on a house or flat. The main principles that  had guided the Secretary-General of the United Nations  in préparing the plan had been that the security of the  - Pension Fund capital should not be jeopardized in any  way, and that pensions payable in the event of death,  diasbtiy, or retirement should not be affected,  ector-General believed that the plan provided  a workable method of assisting staff members to solve '  the very pressing problem of housing, and that it was  worthy of considération by the General Conference. -  Replying to a'question from the delégaté of Australia,  Mr. Harper-Smith explainéd that only the loans betwesn”  the Pension Fund and the organization concérned would  be made in United States dollars, the loan between  the organization and the staff member being made in the  currency required for the actual housing. ' That pro-  vision had been insarted so as to guarantee the capital  of the Pension Fund, which was maintained in United  States dollars,  Replying to a question from the delegate of Canada,  Mr. Harper-Smith said that the Consulting Actuary to  the Unitéd Nations Joint Staff Pensions Board had been  present during the discussion of the proposed plan, but  that, as the problem was an investment rather than an  actuarial matter, it had been addressed to the Invest-  ments Committee. In actual fact, the capital of the  Pension Fund should remain intact and there should be  no actuarial repercussions.
(56) There being no further comment, the draft resolu-  tion submitted by the Director-General on page 2 of  the document was adopted.   The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m,  MEETING
14 November 1956, at 3. 39 p, m.  Chairman: Mr. DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 13.3 OF THR AGENDA ; ELECTION = WLPRESENTATIVES  OF MEMBER STATES TO THE UNESCO STAFF PENSION COMMITTEE  FOR 1997 AND 1908 (continued) (document '9C/ ADM/11)
(1) The [asked the Commission to resume  its discussion of Part I of document 9C/ADM/11. He  recalied that the delegate of New Zealand had proposed  that the existing members and alternates continue in  office for the next two-year period. The delegations  of Mexico and Spain, on the other hand, had proposed  that the existing alternates - Japen, Lebanon and the  United States of America - become titular members  and that the Federal Republic of Germany, Chile and  Turkey be appointed alternates.
(2) Mr. CAMPBELL (New Zealand) withdrew his  proposal in favour of that of Mexico and Spain.
3) Also seconding the proposal of Mexico and Spain,  Mrs. HEFFELFINGER (United States of America)  announced that the United States of America would be  happy to withdraw in favour of one of the countries
570   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION v-9  which had served as regular members during 1955-
1986 4. e. Australia, ‘France or Italy,
(4) Mr, CABOVAT (France) announced that the  Australian, Italian and French delegations agreed in  recommending that, if the proposal of the Spanish and  Mexican delegations were adopted, a representative  of Italy be made a titular member,
(8) Mr. VEDOVATO (Italy) thanked the French and  Australian delegations for their courteous gesture,
(6) The proposal that the titular members for 1957-
1958 bé Japan, Lebanon and Italy, and the alternates,  the Federal Republic of Germany, Chile and Turkey,  ‘was adopted.  TEN 18.2 OF THE AGENDA : SCALE AND CURRENCY OF  CONTRIBUTIONS (continued) TUNIBLA AND MOROCCO  {T) “The CHAIRMAN intorsaed the Commission that  there was one question to be settled as a result of the  admission of Tunisia and Morocco to membership of  Unesco.  The Director-Getieral had cabled to the United  Nations for advicè on thé theoretical probable percen-  tages of those two countries arid had received a reply.  The Commission would have to make à recommenda-  tion on the percentage of those two States for the final  quarter of 1956. Their contributions for 1957-1958  would be fixed ja due corse. ;
(8). Mr. HARPER- SMITH (Comptroller) explained  that he Had received à cable from thé United Nations  Committed oii Contributions indicating that it was  proposed to set the percentages of Tunisia at 0.05 to
0.06 and of Morocco at 0.13. As two figures were  given for Tunisia} the Director-General prôpôsed  taking that of 0,05 per cent for the last quarter of
1956. The sum involved was very small and, for
1657-1958, the Secretariat would have a definite United  Nations figure.
(9) The Director-General s proposal was adopted.  ITEN 13.1 OF THE AGENDA | PERSONNEL POLICY: APPOINTMENT,  OBLIGATIONS AND RIGHTS OF STAFF MEMBERS (document OC/ADM/T)
(10) At the CHAIRMAN's suggestion, it was agreed  to limit the discussion that afternoon to Part I of  document 9C/ADM/7.  Part I: Recruitment and Appointment of Staff Members
(11) Mr. FARR ténièr, Burééu of à Peétorinel and  Management) introduced certain corréctions, bringing  Part I of déchisent 9C/ADM/T up to daté, ‘Paragraph
4 on page 3 should be amended to read’ '  “As of 31 Octobér 1988 there were 450 poits in pro-  fessional levels under the regular budget and the bud-  get of the Expañded Programme of Technical Assis-  tance, and § professional po ts financed. ..........  beadquartars building. Of these posts 422 were filled  by staff members with fixed-term or indeterminate  STI     appointments and 14 were {lled by temporary appoint-  ments. Thess 423 staff members were drawn trom
52 out of 77 Member States", ::. ..  The rést of the paragraph remained Anchanged  In the first line of paragraph 8. , the word October"  should be substituted for " and (sub-paragraph  (d), the figure 73 should be S rsplaoud by 89, .  . In paregraph 6, the figures In the first sentence  should be aniended to read 102 (initial appointments)  and 34 (Member States), The following changes  should be introduced into the list: Australia; 3  Brazil; 3; Burma: 1; Canada; 3; Denmark: 3;  Egypt: 3; France; 10; Iraq: 1; ‘Mexico; | 3; Spain:
2; Turkey: 1; United Kingdom: 9; ‘United States of  America: 9; Union of Soviet Socialist Republics: 7.  Mr, Farr remarked that the above changes should  also be relected in Part III: Appendix. =  The Director-General wished particularly to stress  the information given in paragraph 6 to the effect  that, in the course of the past two years, appointments  had beon made from 34 Member States: The Director-  General realized that geographical distribution was  still far from satisfactory, but felt that a step had  been made in the right direction. .
(12) Mr, FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) said that, :  although hé did not know how the debate was likely to  develop, ii involved the consideration of a report  without añy précise indication of the action to be  taken on it by the Commission. Resolution V, 2.42  of the eighth session of the General Conference con-  tained directives, but little progress had been made  towards théir implementation, Paragraph 7 of docu-  ment 9C/ADM/7 stated that, of the 84 appointments  mentioned, 26 were of nationals of six Member States  over- represented on the Secretariat. The same  paragraph explaihed the reasons for 15 of those  appointments, but the other 11 had teen made without  regard to the above-mentioned resolution. ‘  The Spanish’ delegation añnounced that it was pro-  posing a draft resolution reaffirming the principles  laid down by the Montevideo Conference.  {13) Mr. Néuyen-QUANG-TRINH (Viet- Nam) under -  stood that thé Secretériat staff was récruited from  candidates pdt forward by thé governments of Member  States, but he asked Mr. Farr whether staff for  certain kinds of posté Was rot recruited direétly by  the Secretariat services. If that was so; he hoped  that the principle 6f geographical distribution was  respécted for thosé posts also, and that it was  applied in favous of countries which were under-  represented ‘ on the Sécretarist.
(14) Mr,  ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  - les) asked for détails of indeterminat appointments  made in 1988- 1066.
(16) Replying to the delegate of Viet- Nain, Mr,  FARR (Chief, Burésu of Peraonkie]l and Management)  explainéd the process for the filling of vacant posta  in thé Secretariat. : In the firat place, tie post was  advertised in the Secretariat, to give existing staff  nietobers a ‘chaïice'to decuté promotion; that wis in  accordance with thé Staff Regulation concerning  priority for vacant posts. If the Director-General  considered an inside application suitable,” the staff   v-9 ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  member was appointed,’ thus creating another vacancy,  which was subjected to thé same process, If there  was no suitable inside candidate, the post wes ad-  vertiséd to Meinhei States with an invitation to submit  nominees, At thé moment, bécaiise of the Secreta-  riat's determination to broaden the geographical dis-  tribution of the staff, posts were not advertised in  the first instance to States already well represented  or over-represented in the Secretariat, When appli-  cations were received from Member States, they  were cons{déred by the Bureau of Personnel in con-  sultation with the Departméit concerned and a short  list was establfshed, That list was then considered  by a Selection Board composed of two representatives  of ths Deparini¢nt concerned, one representative of  another Department, one representative of the Staff  Association and one member of the Bureau of Per-  sonnei, acting ag Chairman.‘ The final decision was  takén by the Director-General, on the recommenda-  ‘tion of thé Selection Board, -  One other fact was to be noted: applications were  also received from individuals writing direct to the  Organization, Indeed, they were received at the rate  of 500 a month. Most of them were of no interest to  Unesco, but any promising candidates were con-  siders4 side by side with those put forward by Mem-  ber States. In such cases, however, the Member  States concerned were requested to comment or supply  information on their nationals who had made indivi-  dual applications. -  In reply to the delegate of the Union of. ‘Soviet,  Socialist Republics, Mr. Farr explained that indeter-  minate appointment were given only to staff who had  completed at least two years! service satisfactorily.  The sole exception was staff members transferred  from the United Netions or another Specialized Agency  and already holding an indeterminate appointment; in  such cases, the indeterminate appointment was main-  tained by Unesco, ‘The actual number of indeterminate  appointments given in 1956-1956 could be ascertained  by deducting the mmber reported at Montevideo, i.e.
148, from the existing number of 274, The answer  was 126, but two or three people should be added to  that number, as some staff members with indeter-  minate {appointments had left the Organization since  the previous session of the General Conference.
(16) Mr. Nguyen-QUANG- TRINH (Viet- Nam) thanked  Mr. Farr for his clear explanation of the way in which  appointments were made. He emphasized that, in  certain countries, people with the high qualifications  Unesco required were few in umber and could not  really be spared by the government services. . On the  other hand, for example, among Viet-Namese  some whose ability qualified them for posts with  Unesco and who would be in a position to accept such  posts. The Bureau of Personnel should, in all jus-  tice, bear those facts in mind; and to some extent  give such candidates priority - provided their quali-  fications were equally high - over nationals of coun-  tries already well represented on the Secretariat.
(17) Mr. MARTINEZ COBO (Ecuador) thought that  the General Conference; either at the current session  or the next, should consider altering the criteria by  which over-representation and under -representation
572     of Member States on the Secretariat were judged, , |.  The existing criteria were based solely on the contri;  bution paid by each Member State, and the Director-  General feil back on that argument whenever any  . country whose contribution was relatively small put  forward a candidate of exceptional merit,  An analysis of the document under discussion showed  that the Director-General had not followed the direc- -  tives given by the General Conference at its eighth  session, It was well known that 60 per cent of Unesco'a  staff belonged to only three Member States, Among  the initiul appointments listed, those same three  countries accounted for 9, 8 and 8 respectively. There .  seemed to have been no real desire to carry out the |  Conference's directions, Not a single high-ranking  post had been filled by a national of any Latin American  country, not even when a post was concerned with  affairs of the Latin American region. Nothing had  been achieved in that direction in the past two years, -  Mr, Martinez Cobo concluded by repeating that the  criteria adopted in making appointments to posts in  the Secretariat should be altered, and should in no  circumstances be based merely on the amount of a  country's financial contribution.
(18) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director- General)  pointed out to the delegate of Ecuador that, to consider  Latin America as a whole, from the point of view of  geographical distribution, was a new conçept. It was  an interesting idea to consider Latin America as a  group, for individual countries of that region were it  some cases under-represented and, in others, over-”  represented. The Secretariat ‘would like to ‘hear the  views of the Coinmission on that new concept.  Mr. Adiseshiah could not accept Mr, Martinez Cobo's  statement that the Director-General had done little or  nothing to éarry out the recommendation of the Mon-,  tevideo Conference. As already pointed out by Mr. k  Farr, although the geographical distribution of the  staff was not as broad as the Director-General would  like it to be, a step had definitely been taken inithe |  right direction. Fivé Member States not reprebented  in 1954 were henceforth represented and, out of 102 ;  initial appointments, only 22 had been made from over-  represented countries. Further, the Director-General  had made very serious efforts, particularly during the  past two months, with a view to being able to present  to the Executive Board Latin American candidates for  posts at the Director level. So far he had been  unsuccessful, but he hoped to be able to present such  candidates in the near future.
(19) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the delegate of  Spain had proposed that the Commission recommend ‘  the carrying forward of the two resolutions adopted in  Montevideo, .
(20) Mr. de HOOG (Netherlands) said that he felt  bound by what the delegate of Ecuador had said to state  that the Netherlands delegation appreciatéd thé efforts  made by the Director-General in the matter and was  satisfied with the results he had been able to achieve  since the Montevideo session.
(21) Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Soctalist Repub-  Mes) could not agree with that view. The Director-  General himself admitted that the position was still   ADMINISTRATIVE CONNISSION  not satisfactory, but he did not give any clear ex-  planation of why it had not improved during the past  two years.. For that reason; the speaker. shared the  misgivings felt by the representative of Ecuador,  Mr. Zhukov supported the draft resolution sub-  mitted by the representative of Spain, In his view,  the General Conference should urge the Director-  General anew to redouble his efforts in the matter:  whereas the Director-General had implemented renso-  lution V. 2.41, adopted at Montevideo (document
9C/ADM/1, page 1), resolution V.2,42 kad apparently  remained a dead letter - a situation which the Soviet  delegation considered inadmissible.
(22) Mr. FAIREY (Canada) thought that, in Unesco's  recruitment policy, the criterion of "the highest  standards of efficiency, competence and integrity"  should take precedence over that of geographical  distribution. He wondered whether the non-advertise-  ment of posts to oyver-represented countries was con-  sistent with that principle,
(23) Mr, de HOOG (Netherlands) explained, in order  to avoid any misunderstanding, that he had never  intended to suggest that his delegation was entirely  satisfied with the existing position. It merely had  confidence in the Director-General, whoae efforts  could not hope to meet with immediate success on  account of the frequently conflicting criteria he was  obliged to adopt in respect of staff appointments.
(24) Mr. MARTINEZ COBO (Ecuador) agreed with Mr,  Adiseshiah in appreciating the Director-General's  good intentions with regard to the application of the  resolution of the eighth session, but they had remained  mere intentions, since the Conference itself put  obstacles in his way by basing Member States repre-  sentation in the Secretariat on their financial contribu-  tion. The result was that those which contributed less  on account of their low national income were at a  disadvantage. That criterion should be changed in  order to make it easier for the Director-General to  carry out his intentions.
(25) Mr. von TRUTZSCHLER (Federal Republic of  Germany), while admitting that certain efforts had  been made to broaden the geographical distribution of  the Secretariat, hoped that such efforts would be inten-  sified; otherwise it wauld take a very long time to  achieve the truly equitable distribution desired by the  Director-General and Member States alike.
(26) Mr. LEONG (Union of Burma) seconded the dele-  gate of the Netherlands, The Burmese delegation had  full confidence in the Director-General ‘and was con-  vinced that a way would be found to implement the  principle of a fair geographical distribution of posts.  The major project on mutual appreciation of Eastern  and Western cultural values provided the Director-  Gerieral with an éxceilent opportunity to Implement  that principle, since, in thé field of culture, many of  the small under -represented counti-les could provide  the services of people complying with ‘he standards  referred to in the Staff Regulations. It was in tech-  nical fields that people were difficult to find in such  countries, and the Director-General was naturally  obliged to turn, in many cases, to countries already
573  v-e  over-represented, such as the United States of America,  France, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, the  Federal Republic of Germany, etc.
(27) Mrs, AMARAL SAUER (Brazil) recalled hat the  Brazillan delegation had oftén stressed the need for  fair geographical distribution, which should bè con-  sidered side by side with the’ ability and intellectual  qualifications of the candidates. But a great effort  had still to be madé in that field. While it could be  said that Brazil's representation had recently increased  by 100 per cent, it was only because the number of  Brazilians on the staff had risen from one to two.
(28) The CHAIRMAN noted that there was general sup-  port of the Spanish proposal, seconded by the Union  of Soviet Socialist Republics, to carry forward the  resolutions in paragraph 1 of document 9C/ADM/1.
(29) Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  agreed that it would be desirable to repeat the two  resolutions for 1957-1958, He pointed out, however,  that even if formal action were not taken by the Con-  ference, the Director-General would continue to con-  sider himself bound, in his recruitment policy, by the  resolutions adopted in Montevideo. |  In the two years since those resolutions had been  adopted, the Secretariat had constantly borne in mind  the two delicately balanced criteria for the recruit-  ment of staff. Every appointment had been very care-  fully studied in the light of both those criteria. -  There was, however, a point which should perhaps  be made clear: out of the 1,000 staff members men-  tioned in the Appropriation Resolution in document
9C/6 Corrigendum 1, only 356 posts were subject to  the criterion of geographical distribution; all the others  were posts in the General Services category or tech-  nical posts. Further, as stated in paragraph 8 of  document 9C/ADM/7, 274 staff members in the pro-  fessional grades already had indeterminate appoint-  ments. The limits within which the Secretariat had to  work in trying to recruit from the under-represented  countries were thus very narrow. New vacancies  could be created only by the establishment of new posts  or the departure of staff members holding indeterminate  appointments, or the non-renewal of fixed-term  appointments.
(30) Mr. FARR (Chief; Bureau of Personnel and  Management) explained that many posts were not sub-  ject to the criterion of geographical distribution because  of language requirements. For example, the Arabic,  English, _French, Russian and Spanish translators  obviously had to be recruited from among people whose  mother, tongue was Arabic, English, French, Russian  or Spanish. Other posts required a certain level of  knowledge of a language, such as the post of radio pro-  ducer of English-language programmes; in that in-  stance, efforts had been made to recruit someone from  Canada or the United States’ of America and {t was only  as a last resort that an Englishman had been appointed,  Mr. Farr informed the Commiasion that he himself  was directly concerned with every appointment made  in the Professional category and could assure delegates  that he and his staff spent a great deal of time in trying  to obtain suitable candidates from the under-represented  countries. He informed the delegate of Ecuador that,   v-9  if the negotiations in progress succeeded, a staff.  member from Ecuador would be sppointed within the  next month.  An instance of recruitment ‘from over- represented  countries was that of persons in the General Services  category who applied for Professional posts and  obviously deserved promotion; delegates would  appreciats that it would be unfair to reject such per-  sons on grounds of geographical distribution; .-.  One of the real problems facing the Bureau of Per-  sonnel was that it was obliged to work within thé  narrow limits described by the Assistant Director-  General. Another was that it was ofteii difficult to  secure a response from Member States. There was a  P-4 post vacant at the moment in the Department of  Education which abaolutely required to be filled by  someon? from Latin America, but, despite persistent  efforts on the part of the Secrétariat, no candidate  had been put forward by the Latin American countries.  Moreover; in the cise of Ecuador, the candidaté con-  cerned had not, in the first instance; been proposed  by his country but sought out by the Sécretariat.  Mr, Farr said that the Secretariat very much  appreciated what had been said by the delegats of  Burma on the subject of recriiting nationals for the  East-Weat major project from under-represented  countries. Unesco had recently been very fortunate  in recruiting a Burmese for the project 6n réading  materials for new literates. In general, the Director-  General would certainly make every effort to appoint  staff from countries: {involved in the major projects.  To the delegate of Canada, Mr. Farr recalled that  he had said that posts were advertised in the first
574  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  instance to under-represented countries, If, however,  it proved impossible to find a candidate of the neces-  sary calibre from the under-represented countries,  the post was then advertised to the well or over-  represented countries.
(31) The CHAIRMAN asked if the Commission would  agree to take note of the report in document 9C/ADM/1  and to recommend that the résolutions in paragraph |  be carried forward to 1957-1958,  Agreed,
(32) Mr. FUENTES (Chile) asked that it be made clear  whether or riot Latin America was to be considered  as forming a ‘single whole for the purposes of geo-  graphical distribution in the Secretariat, From the  ideological point of view, he had nothing against it,  but it should be borne in mind that Latin America was  made up of 20 independent countries each proud of its  independence,  He added that it was customary to give countries  seversl months in which to riolninate candidates for  Secretariat vacancies. Chile always replied promptly.  It sometimes happened, howèver, that an officially  nominaied candidate was disregarded in favour of  another from the same country who was entirely un-  known to the National Commission.
(33) The CHAIRMAN was sure that Mr. Farr would  take note of the comments that had been made.  The meeting rose at 5.5 p.m.