(31) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) found Mr, Guiton's  suggestions véry interesting, but he thought that  special emphasis should be placed on the need for  reports to mention the results of the activities  described, He had been struck by the fact that no  Member State had referred to the benefit it had  derived from the part its nationals had taken in  expert committees; seminars or conferences, That  was possibly attributable to lack of contact between  those attending international meetings and the  National Commissicns of their respective countries,  and it might have unfortunste consequences, since it  was largeiy those experts who prepared Unesco's  programme, which later had to be carried out by the  : National Commissions.
(32) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United Statea of America)  thought the reporting system had been fairly  exhaustively examined. In his view, it might be time  to evaluate what remained to be done by the Committee.
(33) The CHAIRMAN thought the Committee might  dispose of Parts IH and IV, on pages 26 and 27 and    ESTATES  deal the next day with the remainder of the document  ,and the question of the Committee's report.
(34) Mr, MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) réminded rnémbers that he had proposed that  Sections II and IV should not be discussed by the  Committee, as they would have to be examined by the  Programme Commission at the same time as  document 9C/PRG/21; In his opinion, it would be  preferable for the Committee to meet again the  following morning to consider Annexes I and II to  document 9C/4, In the discussion of paragraphs 221  to 226 of Annex III, which raised the question of  reports on Unesco's standardizing action, the  Committee would probably wish to hear the views of  the Legal Adviser, The afternoon meeting could then  be devoted to discussing the future form of the  reports. The Rapporteur's report could be  distributed during the morning of the following  Tuesday and discussed by the Committee in the  afternoon,  The meeting rose at 5.50 p.m.  SIXTH MEETING
2 November 1956, at 10,30 a.m,  Chairman: Mr. ZIEGLER (Austria)
(1) The CHAIRMAN declared the meeting open and,  there being no quorum, announced that, in accordance  with the provisions of Rule 69 of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference, the meeting  would adjourn for ten minutes.  (The meeting adjourned for ten minutes.)  {2) There being still no quorum after that statutory  adjournment, the CHAIRMAN asked if all members  present would agree temporarily to waive paragraph
2 of Rule 69, as provided in paragraph 3 of that Rule,  Agreed,  ITEM 17.1 OF THE AGENDA: CONNDERATION OF REPORTS  PRESENTED BY MEMBER STATES FOR THE YEARS 1964 AND
1938 AND OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL'S STUDY OF THOSE  REPORTS (continued) (documents 9C/4 and Annexes 1, II and II)  Section C - Summary of Annexes 1 and Il
(3) Mr. LEE (United States of Americs) felt that  attention should be drawn to the fact that only 42  Member States had supplied information regarding  the most important changes in laws and regulations  affecting education, science and culture, and no more  P23 had answered the question concerning    TA  measures to facilitate the freé movement from  country to country of persons and educational,  scientific and cultural material, It should be noted  that no response had been received from a large  number of Member States.
(4) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director -  General) admitted that the number of replies was not  very high compared with the number of Member  States, but pointed out that the proportion was not  materially lower than in the case of the replies  concerning the execution of the programme. The  Committee should, he thought, state in its report  that the replies were interesting and revealed that  Unesco's ideas were making headway in the laws  and regulations of Member States. Unesco's action  was reflected indirectly in the section relating to  Annex I, and more directly in that relating to Amex  Il, Given the number of replies, that fact had a  limited significance, but it was none the less  encouraging.
(5) The CHAIRMAN agreed with the view of the  United States delegate, particularly as reference was  made in paragraph 214 of the document to the  provisions of Article VII of the Constitution, which  placed Member States under an obligation to supply  information on such matters to the Organization. He   x-6  further noted that only seven European Member States  had supplied information concerning the most import-  ant changes in laws and regulations affecting education,  science and culture, and asked whether the failure of  the other European Member States to reply indicated  that they had no important changes to report, or that  they had merely neglected to supply the information  requested,
(6) Mr. MAHE (Representative of the Directar-  General) said that the Secretariat's information on  that point was scanty, The “clearing housea" of the  Departments had only partial information on the  subject. He was convinced that the countries  concerned had introduced amendments to their  legislation but had not reported them.
(7) The CHAIRMAN thought that, in view of the  explanation given by Mr. Maheu, the Committee  should draw attention to the obligation to supply such  information laid on Member States by the provisions  of Article VIII of the Constitution.
(8) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General), replying to a question from Mr. LEE  (United States of America) said that, so far as the  Secretariat knew, and subject to later correction,  the International Bureau of Education was the only  organization which regularly published collections of  laws and decrees. In fields other than education -  such as culture - there seemed to be no collections  of that type.
(9) Referring to the reports on measures taken to  facilitate the free movement from country to country  of persons and educational, scientifié and cultural  material, the CHAIRMAN felt the Committee should  note that, although some progress had been made,  there was still much room for improvement; Member  States should be urged to make further efforts in that  respect.
(10) Mr. LEE (United States of America) pointed out  that questions and proposals relating to the free  movement of persons and educational, scientific and  cultural material would be discussed in considerable  detail by the Programme Commission, which would  have at its disposal a number of documents on the  subject prepared by the Director-General. The rôle  of the Committee was rather to draw the attention of  the Programme Commission to any information  contained in the reports of Member States that would  be of assistance in determining future action and  policy in that respect.
(11) There being no further comment on the para-  graphs relating to Annex I in Section C of document
9C/4 Annex III, the CHAIRMAN opened discussion on  the paragraphs relating to Annex 11 (Information on  action taken to implement international conventions  and recommendations adopted by the General  Conference) (page 33 of the document). He called on  the representative of the Bureau of Legal Affairs to  make a statement on behalf of the Organization.
(12) Mr. LUSSIER (Bureau of Legal Affairs) stated  the views af the Bureau of Legal Affairs with regard  COMMITTEE ON REPORTS
728  OF MEMBER STATES  to the incorporation, in future reports, of measures  taken by Member States to implement international  conventions and recommendations adopted by the  General Conference (cf, document 9C/REP/PROV/1).
(13) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) thought that it would  be difficult for delegates to make, forthwith, any  comments on as technical a statement as that of  Mr. Lussier. That statement seemed to postulate  two desiderata: firstly, that Member States should  in future prepare special reports on certain  questions; secondly, that the General Conference  should be kept informed of the action taken on  conventions prepared under Unesco's auspices but  adopted at special conferences. Mr. Brunsvick  wondered whether it was essential for the Conference  to be kept informed of the activities of bodies, like  the European Organization for Nuclear Research  (CERN), which had been set up on its initiative but  functioned independently.
(14) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) thought that distinctions should be made  between the various international legal instruments:  conventions prepared by Unesco and adopted by the  General Conference; conventions adopted by a  conference of States convened under Unesco's  auspices; and constitutions of independent bodies  created on the initiative of a certain number of  States, whether or not that initiative was within the  framework of Unesco's programme. In the case of  the first two categories - instances of which would  be the "free flow" agreements, the Universal  Copyright Convention and the Convention for the  Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed  Conflict - the General Conference would certainly  require more detailed information than in the case  of the others, such as CERN. Unesco had admittedly  played an important part in the creation of CERN;  but the latter had become a body with activities of its  own, and it would be going to extremes to demand that  the General Conference should he kept informed of  all the resulta of initiatives which had come to fruition  thanks to Unesco's help.
(16) Mr. LEE (United States of America) felt that,  there again, the concern of the Committee should: be  more limited, The Programme Commission would  itself be discussing the various conventions and  recommendations concerned in considerable detail,  and might even set up a working group'to make a  special study of that question. The réle of the  Committee was to draw attention to any items of  interest arising from the reports of Member States,  and to make whatever recommendations it thought fit  concerning the future presentation of those reports,
(16) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) thought that the problem raised by  Mr. Lussier was not one for the Programme  Commission, but that it was for the Committee on  Reports of Member States to solve it. If that  Committee put it on one side for the time being, it  would have to revert to it when it discussed the form  of future reports. The Bureau of Legal Affairs was  proposing that information concerning jaeasures  taken to implement international conventions should   COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER  be the subject of special reports, instead of being  spread about in the body of a general report. It was  for the Committee on Reports of Member States to  decide that question, and to determine whether the  explicit provisions applying to convéntions elaborated  by Unesco could be extended to those prepared by  Unesco but adopted by special'conferences.
(17) Speaking on behalf of the Austrion delegation,  the CHAIRMAN felt that emphasis should be laid on  the fact that, as the information for Annex II, sum -  marized in document 9C/4 Annex III, had been sup-  plied by less than half the total number of Member  States of Unesco, the general picture was far from  complete,  He also noted that some Member States had not  ratified one or other of the international conventions  on the grounds that its provisions were already  covered by existing domestic legislation. He  wondered whether such States could not be urged to  adhere to the international convention concerned, in  the interoats of legal stability, since it was easy to  change domestic legislation, whereas withdrawal  from an international convention usually required a  fairly long period of notice. He suggested that thé  Committee could draw the attention of the Programme  Commission to the desirability of that procedure.
(18) Mr. LUSSIER (Bureau of Legal Affairs) sub-  scribed entirely to Mr, Maheu's point of view. With  regard to the question raised by the Chairman, he  added that if, in a given case, domestic legislation  enabled an international convention to be ratified,  such ratification would be all the more desirable in  that it would involve no difficulty.
(19) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) considered that the  proposals of the Bureau of Legal Affairs affected  procedure for the future and should be reflected upon.  In hig view, the Committee should re-examine them  and have available the minutes of its previous  meetings (so as not to neglect any of the suggestions  so tar put forward), before taking any decisions.
(20) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) pointed out that, for technical reasons, it  was difficult to shorten the time required for the re-  production of the minutes. The latter were primarily  of use to the Rapporteur. He suggested, however, that  delegates should be provided with a brief summary of  the suggestions made at the previous rneetinge.  Furthermore, Mr. Maheu felt it necessary to sum-  marize the proposals of the Bureau of Legal Affairs.  The latter, in the firat place, desired that, in their  general reports, Member Stetés should confine them-  selves to indicating, shortly, the measures taken in  respect of the various conventions adopted or  prepared by Unesco. In the second place, the Bureau  asked that those measures should be the subject of  special reports, which would not be attached to the  general reports in the form of annexes but would be  independent documents; for it was paradoxical that
729  STATES X-6  information of that kind; which was provided under  directives explicitly stated in the Constitution, should  be the subject of an annex, while other information,  not providzd for in the Constitution, was set forth in  more detail, The third point was a more difficult  one, and in relation to it the Secretariat was  propounding a question rather than making a  suggestion, The Constitution and Rules of Procedure  mentioned conventions "adopted by the General  Conference’, It was necessary to define what was  to be understood by that expression. The General  Conference tended increasingly to arrange for con-  ventions to be adopted by special conferences, The  Bureau of Legal Affairs asked therefore whether the  text should be accepted stricto sensu, which would  mean that only the conventions adopted by the General  Conference should be the subject of special reports,  or whether it should be interpreted more liberally,  which would make it possible to deyote special  reports to other conventions - which were in fact the  most important of those prepared by Unesco.
(21) Mr. LEE (United States of America) agreed with  the delegate of France that the questions raised by  the Secretariat required further study, and asked if  the statement made by Mr. Lussier could be distri-  buted to members for that purpose. He saw no  immediate objection to the first two proposals  outlined by Mr. Maheu, which appeared to have certain  merits, but his third suggestion seemed to require  further thought and consultation, His first reaction  was that it would simplify matters to interpret the  proviviona of the Constitution in their narrowest  sense, and to report first on those conventions that  had actually been adopted by the General Conference.
(22) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) thought that what  Mr. Lee had sald was sound, The Committee could  define its attitude on the first two points, but the third  was not of concern to it alone. The delegate of France  proposed, with regard to that third point, that the  Committee seek the advice of the Legal Committee  and then, in the light of that advice, submit the matter  to the General Conference, which would thus decide  in full knowledge of the facts.
(23) The proposal of the French delegate was  welcomed and approved.
(24) After further discuesion concerning the future  procedure and schedule of meetings of the Committee,  it was agreed that the Rapporteur would prepare the  tirst part of his report for consideration on the afier-  noon of 6 November and that discussion of the future  form of presentation of Member States' reports would  begin on the afternoon of 7 November when, because  of the expected arrival of absent members and other  delegations who might wish to send observers to the  meeting, it would be in a position to hold a more  fruitful and representative debate.  The meeting rose at 12.15 p.m.