COMMITTEE GN  Executive Board would be able {o modify if necessary,  in order to make it posaible to compile a comprehen-  sive and analytical report of the Organization's work,  showing the extent to which the resolutions of the  General Conference had been implemented.  It was impossible to overlook the fact that, as  things stood, the Director-General had not been able  to draw heavily on the reports of Member States in  preparing his own report but had been obliged to rely,  in the main, on other sources, Mr. McCullough was  accordingly disturbed at a proposal which would be  essentially a continuation of the existing system,  though with some improvements. The defects in past  reports from Member States had been their omissions  and their lack of comparability, Those difficulties  might be met by retaining the first two sections  proposed by the representative of the Director-  General and by replacing the new sections 3 to 6 that  he had suggested by appropriate questionnaires on  concrete elements in the programme which would  assist the Director-General in completing his own  report.  Ag far as the future character of the Committee  was concerned, he wondered whether it would not be  desirable for it to be more closely related to the  Programme Commission, and indeed to function as a  committee of the Programme Commission rather  than as an entirely separate body.
(19) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) said that, since the last point raised by the  United States delegate concerned the future rôle of  REPORTS OF MEMBER     STATES X-12  the Committee, it affected that body directly; but the  question cams under item 10 of the agenda of the  General Conference - an item which had not been  referred to the Committee. If it wished to discuss  the point, therefore, the Chairman would have to ask  the General Committee of the Conference to refer it  to the Committee on Reports of Member States.
(20) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) pointed  out that, unless the Committee asked for item 19 of  the agenda to be referred to it, it would be implicitly  approving the Executive Board's recommendation.  The question was too important to be settled out of  hand without discussion,
(21) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United Statés of America)  said that the Committee also had the alternative of  referring the matter to thz Programme Cumimission,  which could set up a sub-committee to consider the  problem. That sub-committee might include the  members of the Committee on Reports of Member  States as well as being more representative of the  General Conference. Another possibility would be  for the Conference formally to enlarge the Committee  on Reports of Member States.
(22) The CHAIRMAN remarked that the subject  called for thorough consideration, and announced his  intention of continuing the discussion at the following  meeting. .  The meeting rose at 5.25 p.m,  TWELFTH MEETING
16 November 1956, at 3.30 p.m,  Chairman: Mr. ZEISSL (Austria)
(1) The CHAIRMAN declared the meeting open and,  there being no quorum, announced that, in accordance  with the provisions of Rule 69 of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference, the meeting  would adjourn for ten minutes,  (The meeting adjourned for ten minutes.)
(2) There being still no quorum after that statutory  adjournment, the CHAIRMAN asked if all members  present would agree temporarily to waive paragraph
2 of Rule 69, as provided in paragraph 3 of that Rule,
(3) It was so agreed.  ITEM 17.3 OF THE AGENDA : PERIODIC REPORTS ON HUMAN  BIGUTS (Resolution 62413 (XXII) of the Economic and Social  Council) (continued) (document 9C/11)  CONSIDERATION OF THEE COMMITTEE'S DRAFT REPORT  (continued) (document 9C/REP/PROV/4)
(4) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Committee had
747  - expressed the wish to have a written text of the draft  report on recommendations regarding periodic  reports on human rights, which the Rapporteur had  presented orally at the previous meeting. He invited  comment on the draft report (document
9C/REP/PROV/4) before the Committee.
(5) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Diractor-  General) pointed out that a comma should be inserted  before "en cas d'urgence!" in the fifth line of the  French text of paragraph 11 (d). "Referring to the  same paragraph, he reminded the meeting that it  would not be possible for the analysis of the reports  of Member States for the years 1854, 1955 and 1056  to be submitted to the General Conference, as it  would have to be communicated to the Secretary-  General of the United Nations in 1957 and the next  session of the General Conference would not take  place until 1958. While the Director-General had no  objection, in principle, to submitting the analysis to  the Executive Board, it might be necessary to make  a distinction between a survey incorporating comments   X-12 COMMITTEE ON REPORTS  by the Secretariat, such as the Commission on Human  Rights might later request from Unesco, and a  straightforward dccount of the factual data supplied  by Member States, such ad that which the Secretariat  was required to submit to the Commission for 1954,
1085 and 1956, In the latter case, consideration by  the Executive Board might not be essential, as it  would amount to nothing moce than simply checking  the accuracy of the report. The time-limits set the  Organization for the submission of its report would  also have to be taken into consideration, The plen  for the reports to be requested from Member States  on developments and progress achiéyed in the field of  human rights during 1954, 1955 and 1956 should be  approved by the Executive Board in the spring of 195%  and sent out to Member States, which would have  three months in which to submit their replies to the  Secretariat. As the Secretariat's analysis would  have to reach the Secretary-General of the United  Nations during the third quarter of 1057, i could not  previously be submitted to the Executive Board,  which would meet only in the autumn of the same  year, While the Board could, of course, appoint a  sub-committee to examine it, it might be better, in  the circumstances, not to state expressly that the  report should be submitted to the Executive Board or,  in any event, to add the words "wherever possible".
(6) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) said he  hed deliberately stated in his report that the Secre-  tariat's analysis should be submitted to the Executive  Board. The French delegation considered that a  matter of principle.
(7) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) proposed that the second sentence of para-  graph 11 (d) be roworded as follows; "This analysis  shall first be submitted for approval to the Executive  Board, except in case of urgency, when the Director-  General may ask the Board to authorize him to  forward his report direct".
(8) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) proposed  that the last part of the sentence be amended to read:  "except in case of urgency, when the Executive Board  may authorize the Director-General to forward his  report direct".
(9) That amendment was approved,
(10) The draft report was then adopted as a whole.  FUTURE CHARACTER OF THE COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF  MEMBER STATES :
(11) The CHAIRMAN said that, following the remarks  made by the delegate of the United States of America  at the Committee's eleventh meeting, concerning the  composition and nature of thé Committee on Reports  of Member States at future sessions of the General  Conference, the Committee would have to decide  whether, in accordance with the procedural require-  ments to which the Director-General's representative  had called attention, it wished its Chairman to request  the General Committee to authorize the Committee on  Reports of Member States to consider item 19 of the  agenda, namely, the report of the Executive Board on
748     OF MEMBER STATES  the organization and methods of work of the  General Conference.
(12) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) mentioned that the General Committee of  the Conference might possibly decide to refer item
19 of the agenda to a joint meeting of the Programme  and Administrative Commissions, in which case the  Committee would have to submit its recommendations  on that item to the joint meeting.
(13) Mr, McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  said that, while hé would welcome a study" of the  question by the Programme Commission and the  Administrative Commission, it would be most regret-  table if a joint meeting of those bodies were to start  an entirely fresh consideration of the reports of  Member States without taking into account the work  already done by the Committee. Accordingly, the  General Committee might wish to recommend that  an opportunity be given to the Committee on Reports  of Member States to give its views and recommenda-  tions on the subject.
(14) The CHAIRMAN undertook to request the  General Committee to refer item 10 of the agenda to  the Committee on Reports of Member States.  ITEM 11.2 OF THE AGENDA : RECOMMENDATIONS ON THE FORM  AND CONTENT OF THE REPORTS TO BE PRESENTED TO THE  GENERAL CONFERENCE AT ITS TENTH SESSION (continued)  CONSIDERATION OF THE COMMITTEE'S DRAFT REPORT  (document 9C/REP/PROV/5)
(16) The CHAIRMAN drew attention to the draft  report on the form and content of future reports  (document 8C/REP/PROV/5), which included the  auggestions made by the representative of the  Director-General, at the Committee's request, for  the plan to be submitted to Member States for their  replies. He also called attention to the working  paper summarizing the proposals made by the United  States delegate and invited the Committee's comments  thereon.
(16) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) felt that  the first paragraph of the summary of suggestions  submitted by the delegate of the United States of  America consisted of general considerations on  which the Committee had reached agreement at its  last meeting, He himself was prepared to approve  the text, if the word "integrated" really had the same  meaning as 'harmonisé", as appeared to him to be  the case. He would like some explanations with  regard to the end of paragraph 2 (c) and remarked  that it would also be necessary to refer to informa-  tion on the implementation of conventions adopted by  special conferences convened by Unesco.
(17) Mr. UNAKOV (Union of Soviet Soclalist  Republics) pointed out that it was extremely  difficult for members of the Committee to  grasp the exact meaning and subtleties of a  text from an oral interpretation. It would  probably be better to postpone the discussion  of the United States delegate's suggestions,   COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES  end those of the Director-General, until a later  meeting.
(18) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) said that the Secretariat's text was not a  formal proposal and had merely been drawn up, at  the Committee's request, to facilitate discussion,  He pointed out that the United States delegate's  suggestions raised a question that had not yet been  tackled by the Committee, namely that of the selection  to be made from among the fields on which Member  States had so far reported to the General Conference  (paragraph 2 (e) of the United States delegate's  suggestions),  Referring to Mr, Brunsvick's last remark, the  Director-General's representative suggested that, in  paragraph 2 (b), the words "precise Interpretation  be replaced by "broad interpretation”. In that way,  the addition of a paragraph dealing with conventions  adopted by special conferences convened by Unesco  could be avolded.
(19) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur)  considered the criticisms of the Soviet delegate to be  entirely justified. The Committee could not adopt a  final text until it had at its disposal a document in  the various working languages, It could, however,  consider the different questions dealt with in the  document before it and instruct the Rapporteur to  submit a draft report to it at the next meeting.
(20) Mr. UNAKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) had no objection to the Rapporteur's  proposal.
(21) The CHAIRMAN therefore invited the Committee  to proceed with a purely preliminary consideration of  the English text.
(22) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  sympathized with the point of view expressed by the  delegate of the Soviet Union and much appreciated  his willingness to proceed with the consideration of  the provisional draft.  He had no strong feelings regarding the precise  wording of his text and would welcome suggestions  to improve it. In reply to the comment made by the  delegate of France on the final clause in paragraph
2 (c), he would agree that the phrase should be  deleted from that paragraph and would propose that it  be included under paragraph 2 (a). He would say, in  answer to the remarks made by the Director-  General's representative on the words "precise  interpretation" in paragraph 2 (b), that the term  "limited" or "narrow" should be used to qualify  "interpretation", as his purpose had been to ensure  that Member States should not be called on to submit  more information than the Constitution required.
(23) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) said that it was for the Committee to decide  whether it wished to recommend thst Member States  report only on thé implementation of conventions  adopted by the General Conference, or also on those  adopted by special conferences convened in pursuance  of resolutions of the General Conference. The Legal  Committee had expressed the opinion that the second
749  X-12  solution would be possible if an explicit resolution to  that effect were adopted by the General Corference  on the Committee's recommendation,
(24) Mr, McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  said that his recollection of the position was that it  had been considered desirable to ensure that the  Director-General could invite Member States to  report on conventions adopted by internatior il con-  ferences other than the General Conference itself.  He was in full agreement with that view; he had  merelyr sought to prevent any unduly broad  interpretation of the constitutional provision.
(25) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) agreed that the term "broad interpretation"  was not sufficiently clear and suggested that the  Committee adopt the wording previously proposed by  Mr, Brunsvick, namely "information on the con-  ventions and recommendations adopted by the General  Corference or by special conferences convered in  pursuance of a resolution of the General Conference",
(26) Mr, McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  agreed with that werding.
(27) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) thanked  the United States delegate for having accepted the  amendment, which reflected the Legal Committee  opinion,
(28) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) drew attention to paragraph 2 (e), which  proposed that Member States should no longer report  on the execution of the programme as a whole but on  selected activities only. The Director-General had  no objection to that interesting innovation.
(29) Mr. BRUNSVICK {Frarice), speaking on behalf  of his delegation and not as Rapporteur, agreed that  the new procedure would have advantages and that it  was in line with the recommendations adopted by the  Programme Commission, laying down that a work  plan should be prepared for the major projects and  that a pilot resolution should be selected in every  section of the programme. He nevertheless hoped  that the reporte of Member States would include an  introduction in which States could stress particular  items of the programme which they might consider  of special importance, without making their reports  too voluminous. An introduction of that kind would  correspond largely to the first of the United States  delegate's suggestions.
(30) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  agreed with the delegate of France that an intro-  duction was necessary in the reports. He empha-  sized thtt his suggestions had not been intended to  constitute an outline but had been drawn up with a  view to enumerating the essentials which such a plan  should contain, The Committee might then wish to  evolve a plan on the basis of his proposals.  Referring to paragraph 3 of his suggestions, he  pointed out that that provision differed somewhat  from existing procedure in that it would enable the  Director-General to extract such information as was  useful to him without necessarily having to publish   X-12  the reports of Memher States separately in their  entirety, He would suggest that the Committee might  recommend which parts of the reports of Member  States should be printed as such, which used hy the  Director-General for his own report, and which set  aside for documentation.
(31) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) suggested  that the selection of the information to be used in the  various sections should be left to the Director-  General in co-operation with’ the Executive Board,  While it was obvious that laws, regulations and  decrees adopted by Member States should merely be  mentioned and communicated to the Secretariat fur  documentation purposes, it should be left open to the  Executive Board to decide in due time, according to  the progress of the various projects, on the material  to be included in an expensive printed report.
(32) Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba), attending ai an observer,  thanked the Chairman for his permissioh to speak at  a meeting of the Committee ond said that his delega-  tion consideréd that the reports of Member States  were of the highest importance and, for that reason,  should not be subjected to any restrictions, whether  financial or otherwise. He was of the opinion that  the most interesting results of ‘any Conference were  the reports of Member States, which served as a  guide to National Commissions and as a model for  other countries. They had been of inestimable value  to the Cuban National Commission, Adding that every  nation should periodically assess its activitiés, he  pointed out that Article VIII of the Conatitution was  categorical on the subject of that obligation, In order  to facilitate the States’ task, a model questionnaire  should be devised to indicate the criteria to be  followed, 50 that the reports would conform to a  standard pattern, Otherwise the results would be  confusing.  He stressed the need for basing the work of each  Member State on standard criteria and drew attention  to paragraph 4 of Article IV of the Constitution,  dealing with the important question of international  conventions, That paragraph was just as important  as the agreements themselves and he regretted that,  in practice, its provisions were not being observed.  He urged that agreements should be put into effect  and deplored that, in the past ten years, ouly a few  international conventions had been implemented.
(33) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) had  been much interested in the Cuban delegate's remarks  and agreed that it was undoubtedly useful to publish  the reports of Member States in full, especially so  far as the work of National Commissions was  concerned.
(34) The CHAIRMAN assumed that paragraph 3  would be amended in the light of the foregoing  discussion,
(35) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  had been most interested in the Cuban delegate's  remarks and found himself in substantial agreement  with them. He would certainly recommend the pub-  lication of the information required from Member  States in implementation of Article VII of the
750  COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES  Constitution, as well as that relating to conventions  adoji*ed by conferences sponsored by the  Organization,
(36) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) thought that it would be preferable for the  Committee to take a decision in principle regarding  the use to be made of the information supplied by  Member States, instead of leaving responsibility to  the Director-General and the Executive Board.
(37) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  considered, for his part, that the information  covered under paragraph 2, sub-paragraphs (a),  (e) (ii), (e) (ili) and (f) should be published, that under  sub-paragraph (b) mimeographed, and that under  sub-paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) (1) summarized by  the Director-General,
(38) Mr, MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) pointed out that the current practice was  to annex the informetion referred to in paragraph 2  (b) to the reports of Member States - an arrangement  that might appear paradoxical, since such information  was required by the terms of the Unesco Constitution.  He observed that some of the points that the United  States delegate would like to see summarized in the  Director-General's report, such as paragraph 2 (c),  aroused keen interest among the Member States and  that it would perhaps be well to publish their reports  thereon. The same was true of resolutions  specifically addressed to Member States.
(39) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) thought  that information on the activities of National Com-  missions did not always include new matter and that  such new points as there were could be mentioned in  the Director-General's summary. The Committee  should take no final decisions on those questions  until it had before it a text in all the working  languages. .  Referring to the United States delegate's suggestions  in paragraphs 4 and 5, Mr. Brunsvick said that his  Government intended to propose that the Committee  include vepresentatives of 19 Member States instead  of 17, in view of the growing membership of the  Organization.
(40) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) pointed out that the reports 6f Member  States always coveréd the second year of the last  budgetary period but one and thé first year of the  last period, while the Director-General's report  covered the two years of the last period. There  were therefore certain difficulties in the way of  making üse of the reports of Member States in the  Director-General's report, as proposed by the  United States delegate, although there would be  advantages in submitting a single report. He also  wondered whether the Committee intended asking  the Director-General, in future, to make an analyeis  of the reports of Member States, as he had done for  the current session.
(41) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur)  considered that analysis most useful and thought that  the Committee's report should refer to the need for it.   COMMITTEE ON
(43) Mr, MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) suggested that those items contained in the  reports which were not recommended by the Com-  mittee for publication should be annexed to the  analysis of the reports of Member States.
(43) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  agreed that the matters were of too great importance  to be decided in hasta, He supported the French  delegate's view that the summary prepared by the  Secretariat was of value; indeed, his proposal had  gone even further, as he believed that more sum-  maries could be made and some publication of the  original material dispensed with,  As for the problem of timing, he did not think that  insuperable difficulties would arise as, under the  method he had proposed, the Director-General would  in fact be able to take into consideration in his own  report some of the information given in respect of  the previous year, He stressed that the purpose of  his proposals had been to evolve some form of total  reporting without necessarily having a multiplicity  of documents.
(44) The CHAIRMAN noted that the United States  delegates suggestions would be translated and  circulated to all members of the Committee.
(45) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur)  announced that he would submit a draft report to the  Committee on Thursday, 22 November.  REPORTS     OF MEMBER STATES X-13
(46) Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) suggested that the 17  members to be responsible for studying the reports  for the new session of the Conference should not be  appointed immediately, but at the beginning of the  next session, as that would allow for greater contin-  uity in the Committee's work, He referreil to the  first meetings held by the Committee at the current  session, from which many delegates were absent and,  among others, those of Latin America. In his opinion,  the Secretariat should draw up an analytical summary  of the reports and, at the next session, the Conference  should appoint the members of the Committee on a  wider bas's, as its membership way at the moment  rather small, He pointed out that consideration  should be given to the fact that only seven or eight of  the 15 members attended meetings, and he believed  that the reason that more delegates did not attend  was that they had to do so as observers, with the  right to speak but not to vote. In conclusion, he said  that an ad hoc committee should be appointed, instead  of following the procedure adopted at the current  session. He therefore considered that the wisest  course would be to appoint the Committee's members  at the following session of the Conference.
(47) The CHAIRMAN said that he would postpone  discussion on that new point till the following  meeting,  The meeting rose at 5.55 p.m.  THIRTEENTH MEETING
22 November 1956, at 3,30 p.m,  Chairman: Mr. ZEISSL (Austria)  CONSIDERATION OF THE COMMITTEE'S DRAFT REPORT — PARTS  IV and V (document 9C/REP/PROV/T)
(1) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) asked  for the comments of the members of the Committee  on the various paragraphs of the draft report  contained in document 9C/REP/PROV/7. He added  that he himself intended to propose amendments to  certain paragraphs.  Part IV  Paragraph 1
(2) Paragraph 1 waa approved without discussion.  Paragraph 2
(3) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) and  Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-General)    proposed that the paragraph be amended to read as  follows: "After careful consideration of these  proposals and of certain further suggestions, the  Committee, at its meeting on 32 November, agreed  on the following draft recommendation".
(4) The proposal was approved.  Paragraph 3
(5) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) proposed  that the last phrase be expanded to read as follows:  "an assessment of the Organization's work during  the period under review".
(6) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  remarked that what was wanted was an evaluation of  the work of the Organization. As any evaluation was  based on failures as well as successes, the reports  on the activities of the Organization should include