8 November 1956, at 10.30 a.m,  Chairman: Mr. ZIEGLER (Austria)  later: Mr, ZEISSL (Austria)  . later: Mr, PEIRIS (Ceylon)
(1) The CHAIRMAN announced that items 9,8.3 and
17.3 of the agenda (the relevant documents for which  were docdments 9C/PRG/21 and 80/11 respectively)  had been referred to the Committee on Reports of  Member States for its consideration.  He extended a welcome to the delegates of Afgheni-  stan, Canada, Chile, the Federal Republic of Germany,  Indonesia, Italy, Liberia and Switzerland, who were  attending the current meeting as observers. Their  presence was appreciated and, as observers, they  could participate in the discussions, without however  having the right to vote.  He requested the permission of the Committee to  be replaced as Chairman by.the head of the Austrian  delegation, who had not yet arrived when Austria had  been elected to the Chair. He took the opportunity of  expressing his gratitude to delegates and to the rep-  resentatives of the Director-General for their co-  operation.
(2) There being no objection, Mr. Zeisal (Austris)  then took the Chair.
(3) The CHAIRMAN appreciated the confidence shown  him by the Comniittee, He thanked Mr. Ziegler for  the manner in which he had conducted the Committee's  business.  CONSIDERATION OF THE DRAFT REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE  (document 9C/REP/PROV/ 7)
(4) The CHAIRMAN iivited the Rapporteur to introduce  thé Committee's draft report.
(5) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) suggested  that the Committee consider the report section by  section.
(6) There being no objection, it was so agreed.
(7) The CHAIRMAN invited the Rapporteur to comment  on the draft report section by section or, where  appropriate, paragraph by paragraph, each point then  being open for general discussion by the Committee,
(8) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) submitted  paragraphs 1 to À of the report. Paragraph 1, which  was purely formal, recalled that the Committee had  been aet up by a decision of the Executive Board
(43 EX/Decisions, 5.2), Paragraph 2 dealt with the  Committee's membership, and emphasized that  attendance at the first meetings had been very small,  whereas the General Conference had desired the  Committee's expansion. Mention was also made of  the very regrettable absence of any Spanish-speaking  delegate. Paragraph 3 recalled the steps taken to  ensure that the Committee met in due time, and
130     paragraph 4 mentioned the fact that delegations to the  Conference had been invited to be represented by  observers. The Rapporteur not ed with satisfaction  that several observers were present at the current,  seventh, meeting.  © (9) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) wished to make some remarks with regard  to procedure, In his view, the Committee had two  reports to prepare. One; which was n' matter of  urgency; would be for the Programme Commission  and should contain the Committee's observations with  regard to Member States' participetion in the  execution of the programme. The secand would be  the Committee's general report to the plenary  Conference. ‘  The section of the provisional report entitled  "Membership of the Committee", which the Rapporteur  had just described, was part of the second named  report. When the time came to present that latter  report to the Conference, some amendments would  have to be made in it. It wes doubtless difficult for  the Committee to adopt its final report at the stage  reached,
(10) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) agreed  with Mr. Maheu, He referred to the wording of  paragraph 4: "At the time of drafting the first part  of this report ....", which left it open to the Coramit-  tee to add to the report on that point.
(11) The CHAIRMAN noted that there was general  agreement on thé procedure explained bj the  representative of the Director-General and the  Rapporteur.
(12) Mr. LEE (United States of America) assumed  that the Committee's consideration of the draft report  would be provisional and that the report would be  revised before being submitted to the Programme  Commission.
(13) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) recalled that the Committee's first task  would be to draw up a special repdrt for the Pro-  gramme Commission, which was to bégin its work on  the following Monday. In his view, the Committee's  first report should be based on the study, not merely  of the reports of Member States, but also of item
8.8.3 of the agenda (document 9C/PRG/21:  Decentralization of Unesco's activities: Structure  and methods of work of National Commissions), so  that it might constitute a homogeneous report on  the execution of the programme. That text should  be in final form by the end of the current week;  it would incorporate the questions dealt with in  paragraphs 12 to 36 of document 9C/REP/PROV/2,   COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES x-7  which was now before the members of the Committee.  The report for the plenary Conference would cover  the points dealt with in paragraphs 2 to 11 of that  same document, and would also contain the Commit-  tee's recommendations on the form and content of  future reports of Member States (item 17.2 of the  agenda). That general report was at the moment  being discussed provisionally and could be put into  final shape after the report for the Programme  Commission had been forwarded to that Commission,
(14) The CHAIRMAN requested the Committee to  begin its discussion of the draft report, on the under-  standing that it would be open to future revision where  appropriate.
(15) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) thought  that paragraph 6, on the subject of the Committee's  officers, raised no problem. Paragraphs 7, 8 and 9  summarized Mr, Maheu's very valuable remarks  concerning the Committee's responsibilities.
(16) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) suggested altering paragraph 2, to make it  clear that it was before the beginning of the session  of the Conference that there had been no Spanish-  speaking members on the Committee. In paragraph
6, it should be noted that the Chairman was Mr. Zeissl  (Austria), in replacement of his deputy, Mr. Ziegler.
(17) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) signitied  his agreement with those amendments.
(18) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) also recommended an amendment to  paragraph 8; it was in fact the General Conference  itself which had decided, on the proposal of its  General Committee, to refer item 9. 8.4 of the agenda
10 the Committee on Reports of Member States, It  would also be well to make a numbered reference to  the resolution of the Economic and Social Council.
(19) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) said  that, in paragraph 8 of the French text, the word  "ECOSOC" should be replaced by "Conseil économique  et social",
(20) Mr, LEE (United States of America) felt that the  Committee's work would in fact have to be divided  into two parts, namely, its report to the Programme  (Commission and its report to the plenary Conference.  Both reports would, however, require an introduction  referring to the basis for its conclusions and to the  purpose the Committee had set out to achieve in  preparing ita reports; in his view, the exirting intro-  duction would have to be somewhat modified in order  to be suitable for either of those reports. He would  suggest thai consideration of such modification  should be deferred until à later stage.  It was important that the introduction to the report  to the Programme Commission should give some  indication ôf the attendance at meetinga; that would  indeed be the most appropriate juncture at which to  deplore any absences. The Programme Commission  would thus bé in a position fully to appreciate the  weight carried by any of thé suggestions in the  report.
(21) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France)(Ropporteur) accepted  the suggestion of the United States representsiive,  He suggested preparing, for the report to the Pro-  gramme Commission, a shorter introduction contain-  ing a statement on the Committee's membership and  a summary of paragraphs 7, 8 and §. The number of  . meetings held by the Committee would also be  recorded, as the United States delegate had proposed.
(22) Mr. LEE (United States of America) agreed with  the Rapporteur's outline, It would also be possible  to refer to the benefit derived by the Committee from  the presence of cbservers.
(23) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Papporteur)  explained that paragraph 10 presented the Committee's  work plan, In the first line, the word "Messieurs"  {in the French version) ahould be deleted, and the  words "to your Committee" replaced by to the  Committee".  Paragraph 11 mentioned the help given to the  Committee by the Directors of the various Depart-  ments. Paragraph 12 stated the results which the  members of the Committee expected of ita work, and  should meet the desiderata of the United States  representative.
(24) Mr. LEE (United States of America) wondered  whether the sentence in paragraph 12 referring to the  fact that the Committee's work was incomplete  because of the incompleteness of the reports and of  its own \tudy was sufficiently strongly worded, He  would go so far as to say that the reports of Member  States w're so incomplete as to make it impossible  to draw ‘ny valid generalizations which would be of  assistan se to the Programme Commission.
(25) Mu: “ BRUNSVICK (Franc) (Rapporteur) agreed  with th ‘Inited States delegate and asked him to  sugge/t à new draft for the sentence concerned, which  as it stood, vas admittedly lacking in clarity.
(26) Mr. LEE (United States of America) undertook  to draft a sentence along those lines, which he would  discuss with the Rapporteur.
(27) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) pointed out, with regard to the first sentence  of paragraph 12, that it was the General Conference  which had asked that the Committee's observations:  on the various programme chapters be communicated  to the Programme Commission. He proposed the  following wording: "In accordance with iin ‘express  request from the General Conference, the Programme  Commission will be informed of the Committee's oe  observations où the various programme chapters, so  that it will know what the Committee has found in  Member Stetes' reports and what has been missing".  Mr. Maheu also proposed the deletion, in paregraph
12, of the last sentence, which would have a more  appropriate place in the general report.
(28) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) accepted  those amendments. He explained that the figures in  paragraph 13 had been supplied by the Seoretariat,  He hoped that the United States delegate, who had  mentioned them at the outsst, would find them accurate.   X-7
(29) Mr. LEE (United States of America) signified  his assent. '
(30) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) pointed  out that paragraph 13 referred to the fact that certain  National Commissions were insufficiently equipped,  Paragraph 14 suggested a remedy for such di fficulties,  by proposing that, as an experiment, the Director-  General might suggest certain distinctive methods for  the execution of some ten resolutions and indicate a  work plan for their implementation.
(31) Mr, MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) thought that, to the extent that the partici-  pating agencies of the Member States mentioned in  paragraph 13 were in fact the Naiional Commissions,  the problem should be studied concurrently with  document 9C/PRG/21 and be eliminated from the  report destined for the plenary Conference, He  suggested an amendment in the wording of paragraph
13: the words "the General Conference does not  always allow for this state of affairs when drawing  up the programme’ would be replaced by: "the  General Conference will no doubt allow for this state  of affairs when drawing up the programme".
(32) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) agreed  that paragraph 13 should bo amended to some extent,  but felt that the paregraph itself should be retained in  the report to the Programme Commission.
(33) Mr. PEIRIS (Ceylon) suggested that paragraph
13, which dealt with factors that restricted the perti-  cipation a? Member States in Unesco's programme,  should also refer to the lack of clear directives in  some fields, such as education in international under-  standing, particularly as the question was linked with  paragraph 14. He would discuss a possible amend-  ment with the Rapporteur.
(34) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) then  turned to paragraph 15, which recorded the results  registered by Member States throughout the pro-  gramme, and paragraph 16, which in fact mentioned  that Member States omitted to record the benefits  accruing to them from the programme in respect of  international understanding.
(35) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) expressed some doubts as to the desirability  of the last sentence of paragraph 15; it was not  Unenc(1‘s business to pronounce upon the effectiveness  of national administrative systems. It might also be  well to revise the firat sentence of paragraph 16,  where the words "such assistance" referred to the  penultimate, and not the last, sentence of the preceding  paragraph 15. The word "compensé" (in the French  version), in the fifth line of paragraph 16, should, in  addition, be replaced by some term which would  express combination, and not contrast, between the  two elements concerned.
(36) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) agreed  to the two last-mentioned amendments. As for  Mr. Maheu's first point, the Committee would  doubtless wish to retain the idea expressed in the  first sentence of paragraph 15, while formulating it
732  COMMITTEE ON REPORTS     OF MEMBER STATES  in such a way thet Unesco's competence was not  exceeded,  Paragraph 17 called for no comment.  Paragraph 18 summarized the Committee's dis-  cussion vith regard to difficult projects, fragmentary  information as to which might possibly convey the  impression of failure, The Programme Commission  should not be given the impression that such projects  were unimportant; for the Committee, on the contrary  considered that several of them were well worth  keeping in the programme, e.g. the project for the  translation of representative works.
(37) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey), who had not attended  the previous meeting, asked for explanations with  regard to paragraph 17, which seemed to him  somewhat vague.
(38) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur)  explained that the Committee had found that 60 per  cent of the reports assigned equal importance to  expert missions and to problems of equipment, which  nevertheless were not accorded equal importance in  Unesco's programme.
(39) Mr. ANAS (Afghanistan), attending as an  observer, emphasized the importance, to under-  developed countries, of supplies of equipment, even  in fields where they had no need of experts. Unesco,  which furnished equipment only to the countries to  which it sent experts, should investigate that problem,
(40) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) hoped  that the wording of paragraph 17 would meet that  point.
(41) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) and Mr. ANAS (Afghani-  stan) feared that the paragraph in question would give  rise to misunderstanding.
(42) Mr. SOEBROTO (Indonesia), atteixling as an  observer, was glad that the delegate of Afghanistan  had pointed out the desirability of emphasizing the  great need for equipment in underdeveloped countries;  paragraph 17 should accordingly be further  strengthened. It was, for instance, often impossible  to follow a project through, if equipment were not  supplied after the expert mission had completed its  work.
(43) Mr. LEE (United States of America) belleved  that the discussion illustrated the problem to which  he'had called attention in his suggested amendment |  to a sentence in paragraph 12, The Committee was  not competent to examine such issues as the value of  expert missions as compared with equipment; it did,  however, have the obligation of calling the attention  of the Programme Commission to a generalization  based on the reports received. The paragraph  drafted by the Rapporteur appeared to present a  reasonable generalization, but he would agree that  there was a poseibility of defects arising in the  generalization due to the way in which the reports |  were assembled. The conclusions should therefore  be presented to the Programme Commission, but the  validity of such conclusions would have to be  questioned.   COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER S8TATES  Referring to paragraph 18, hé Fécalled that the  reference to the transjation programme had originally  been introduced by his delegation, It was izaporiant  to envure that the pecond half of that paragraph  correctly reflected the situation. It was not within the  terms of reference of the Committee to recommend a  translation programme, The Committee should state  that the question of translation programmes had not  received sufficient mention in the reports, but hat! the  reporting would appéar to be defective; and that the  Programme Commission should not therefore conclude  that Member States were not interested in such work.
(44) Mr; BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) proposed  delstion of the words "As an example", and the formu-  lation in general terms of the idea expressed in  paragraphs 18 and 19,
(45) Mrs. PARONETTO-VALIER (Italy), attending as  an observer, thought that the translation programme,  wai of interest only to certain Member States.
(46) Mr, TUNCEL (Turkey) emphasized the interest  which translations of representative literary works  had for all countries,
(47) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) assured  the delegate of Turkey that translations would be  mentioned in paragraph 32 as a very important  question.
(48) Mr, TUNCEL (Turkey) asked the! the Committee  should add a recommendation with regard to the  translation, into national languages, of Unesco! s main  publications.
(49) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) thought  that that problem was to be dealt with by the -  Programme Commission,
(50) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) proposed that the report  mention the importance of that problem (which was  mantioned in the reports as à whole), particularly to  those countries where Unescc's languages were not  used,
(51). Mr, PEmis (Ceylon) ‘uppocted the Rapporteur’ s  suggestion that the specific exsinple should be omited.  He believed that the delegate of the United States of  America had intended to refer only to the question as  a whole and had riot meant that spacial emphasis  should be placed on irsnslation programmes in that  particular context. In tact, ottier examples were  cally v alid,     rol :
(53) Mr. LEE (United States of America)  evqgortad
733  x-7  that the word "directives"! in 21; which .  ins some authority. be amended to read "guidance"  or "suggestions,
(54) Mr, MAHEU (Represemtative of the Director-.  General) ee that the word "directives" be  replaced by "work plan”. : ce
(65) ‘Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) Rapporteur) . veo  suggested the expression:. ‘precise work plan for the  use of Member States’, -  .The Natural Sciences section had given rise to an  interesting discussion in the Committee. Paragraph
22 mentioned that the States waniinously recognised  the value of international collaboration in the scienti-  tic field, Paragraphs 23 and 24 called for no comment.  Paragraphs 26 and 27 indicated the importance which -  Member States attached to the teaching and - dissemi-  nation of science, whereas those questions were not  very prominent in Unesco's proposed programme.
(86) On the proposal of Mr. MAHEU (Representative  of the Director-General), Mr. BRUNSVICK (France)  (Rapporteur) ser pod to delete paragraphe 23 and 24,
(67) Mr, MAHEU (Representative of the Director  General) suggested wording paragraph 36 in the  following way: "Many reports reflect the interest  taken by the States in the main lines of Unesco's  programme of aid to research .,,.".
(58) Mr, ANAS (Afghanistan) wished the idea  expressed in paragraphs 23 and 24 to be preserved,
(69) Mr. PEIRIS (Ceylon) was inclined to favour the  proposal, made by the representative of the Director-  * General, to delete paragraphs 23 and 24; -the question  of the importance of equipment was valid in respect  of all parts of the report and paragraph 17 could be  strengthened to cover the point adequately.
(60) It was agreed to redraft paragraph 17 slong the  lines suggested.  (Mr. Poiris (Ceylon) took the Chair.) | ©  ten) Mr, TUNCEL (Turkey) desired that the Com-  mittee should make à recommendation for the  increase of the budget of the Netural Sciences ae  Department. He remarked that, in 28,  the word "apportent” (in he French version)  read "portent",
(62) ‘The CHARMAN sé oùid that, while Ai ré  Tens i  did not fall within the, come ce  to formulate as y. commente. in an cor      : re     of associa ‘  of sascciating the fes of ri Project No, 4A
(64) Mr . MAHEU (Representative of the irvctor-  General) adirocéted addiig some explanations   X-1  paragraph 29 to indicate that the interest shown by  Member States in research on present-day problems  varied somewhat. Paragraph 30, which contained an  interesting suggestion, could usefully be linked to the  rest of the report.
(68) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) agreed  that paragraph 20 should be expanded and that  paragraph 30 should be combined with it, The  association of the social sciences with the major  project in question would certainly lend it more  topical" interest.
(66) In reply to a suggestion from the delegate of  Afghanistan, Mr, MAHEU (Representative of the  Director-General) explained that only Major Project  No. 4A called for any substantial contribution from  the Social Sciences Department,
(67) Mr. ANAS (Afghanistan) emphasized the social  impartance of land problems and therefore of the  arid zone project,
(68) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) then  presented paragraphe 31, summarising the  Committee's findings with regard to cultural  activities, 32 concerning tranalations, and 33, which  would be revised by the drafter,
(69) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) suggested deleting parsgraph 33 and pre-  facing the observations regarding the various activi-  ttes of Unesco by a general remark which might be  drafted as follows: The Committee has the impression  that the reports of Member States would be more  precise and more substantial if, in the wording of the  resolutions and in the statement of the work plans,  the rôle of Member States was more closely defined,
(70) Mr, TUNCEL (Turkey) seconded that proposal,  He advocated that paragraphs 31 and 32 should  contain a mention of what Member States had  actually achieved.
(71) The CHAIRMAN, speaking as a delegate of  Ceylon, considered that the second sentence in  paragraph 31 gave the impression that the gap  referred to was dué to a lack of elements in the  programme, which had not been the case. It would  therefore be desirable to point to the need for detailed  guidance in such a wide field.  {72) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) thanked  the Chairman for his suggestion, which he would use  in the drafting of paragraph 31, :  Paragraph 34 recorded what the reports of Member  States contained for the benefit of readers. Para-  graph 35 needed to be more clearly drafted.
(73) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) thought that, in paragraph 35, the second  observation, which was of a general nature, should be  dissociated from the first, which seemed a little  ambiguous as it stood, )
(74) Mr. ANAS (Afghanistan) pointed out that most of  COMMITTEE ON REPORTS
734  OF MEMBER STATES  the Member States had not mentioned, in their last  report, the activities which they had recorded in  previous reports. The Committee should take  account of the latter reports if its findings were not  to be misleading.
(75) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur), on the  propossi of the delegate of Turkey, agreed to delete  from paragraph 35 the refcrence to the Unesco  "Courier!" and "Chronicle", With regard to  paragraph 35, he had no comments to make.
(76) Mr, MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) said that the hope expressed in the last  sentence of paragraph 36 was really a matter  for the Committee, which should present the  substance thereof, in its own name, to the  plenary Conference.
(77) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) wished  to avoid giving the impression that the Exchange of  Persons programme, which was one of those in which  co-operation with Member States was most effective,  had not received the Coirunittee's attention.
(78) Mr, TUNCEL (Turkey) advocated adding a  paragraph summarizing the Committee's observations  on the future form and content of reports of Member  States for the purposes of the tenth session of the  General Conference,
(79) The CHAIRMAN said that that item would be  studied at the Committee's next meeting.
(80) Mr, LEE (United States of America) said that  those who had heen present at the Committee's  earlier meetings would particularly appreciate the  difficulties with which the Rapporteur had been faced  in his task. He extended the Committee's warmest  thanks to the Rapporteur for his work.
(81) The CHAIRMAN associated himself with those  remarks. He noted that the Committee had concluded  its preliminary consideration of the draft report.
(82) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) commented that the Commiittee would  consider docliment 8C/PRG/21 at its next meeting  and would thus have déalt with the whole of the  substance of its report té the Programme Commission.  Thereafter it would consider the form of future reports  and, in particular, the question raised by the Economic  and Social Council's résolution concerning reports on  human rights (document 9C/11). But the first report  was an urgent matter and it would have to be recast  and approved by the Committee before it was submit-  ted to the Programme Commission,
(83) Following some discussion, it was agreed that  the Committee should meet at 10.30 a.m. the  following morning end should ait for as long as  necessary to complete its work, in order to enable  the Rapporteur to prepare his report-for approval on  Saturday afternoon, 10 November.  The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m.