v.12  would have fo thké up paragraph 41, subparagraphs  (b) dnd (¢) and probe ‘which solution it midds” ;  recominend to the Conference, ;  : ort ta wi
(50) Mi, POMPEI (aly) censidéé ing the importance  of the quéstion dnd the relatively small number of-  delegations represented at the meeting; wondered - -  whether the discussion had been us thorough as it  deserved and therefore proposed that it be adjourned  to the following morning.    ADMINISTRATIVE COMMIBBION
(61) Mr, de HOOG (Netherlands) feared that the time  would be tod short to inform the delegations which +,  were not represented and to carry out the necessary.  exchanges of views! He therefore moved that the  inesting be adjourned till the following afternoon.  (sa) The motion to séjour was adopted.  The meeting rose ats p.m.  TWELFTH MEETING -
16 November 1936, at 10, 30 a.m,  Chairman:  ITEM 13.1 OF THE AGENDA} PERSONNEL POLICY: ab. at  APPOINTMENT, OBLIGATIONS AND NIGHTS OF STAFF MEMEERS |  (continued) (documents 9c/ADW/T and Ames 0G/DR/ 08: 0C/DR/44)  ' [34  a) “The CHAIRMAN announced ‘that a à draft resolution  - had been presented by the delegations of Ecuador, .  Spain, Uruguay, Greece, Chile and Peru, following the  discussion in Administrative Commission of Part I  of document 9C/ADM/7. . That draft resolution  (dcoument 9C/DR/84) had been distributed and he :  would open discussion thereon before proceeding with  Part I of the document. -
(2) ‘The DIRECTOR-GENERAL noted that the word  "economic" in the last line of the second paragraph in  the English text should Toad "financial". ;
(3) ‘Mr. MARTINEZ COBO (Evade), sold à ent the’  countries sponsoring the draft resolution were pro- -  pounding a view that had been put forward on other  occasions, namely that, in the allocation of posts in ;  the Secretariat, not aly the financial contribution ¢ of  the different countries but also the intellectual capa-  bilities of candidates should be taken into considera-  tion. . In his opinion, thy recruitment of staff for a  cultural organization should not be based on financial  considerations, and the \imit for a country’s repres-  _ entation should not be f od at less than five staff  members. He added thai à word was missing from -  the second paragraph of the’ diaft resolution, in the’  Spanish text, which should read "., . por io menos  cinco  funolonarios cualquiera que ses =..." instead  of". : por lo menos cinco funcionarios que sea su ,
(4) “Mr. FARR (Chief, B Bufqau ok Personnel and ”  Management) said that the Secretariat's ant of  the representation of Member States on the staff was  not, in fact, made solely in terms of their financial  contribution, tothe Organisation. The quota system’  was merely used as a guide for’ ‘assessing the relative  representation of Member States on the staff, snd
584  Mr. DAVIES (Australia)  Loe arts an  either the United Nations 76 iy. of its Specialized’,  Agencigs considered init à près ber State. ve sai  represented if ft had only fab tidal on the staff,  even if that one ‘post could be said to ‘correspond to  the representatior level warkanted by that Member,  State's financial contrik to Uriéséo. Furthermere,  if the figure of five staff members’ suggested in the .  last paragraph of the draft resolution were multiplied  by the, total punmber of Meéxaber St tes, i.e, by 79, the  figura reached would exceed the number of professional  porsé available for ‘geographical distribution. - However,  the Secretariat accepted thé ‘principle of the draft  resolution and was vor In agreement with the ©  sponsors that every, or} should continue to be made  to improve the ge aphical distribution of o portf  between au Member siéger.  T “rite
(6). Me: se  explain tha A] à psp of the re  dem edd ‘représentation on the Serta  of five ps members for eyery pountry, but to go¢  that a country wag ? hot cuinted. às over: “represented  ‘five of ite natio  ai féshlar Ierely i wished te.  e resqlution was not to  until it had at lens “h t 8 on the  . He wanted to make it Shear al t the propogal was  ‘not intended : as a substitute or that which had been g  submitted. a few days putin requésting tie _-  Director er to do evé possible to ensure,  more équital 1 eographical distribution.  ©) | Mes, ign (Asie ‘paproduéd | his’ ‘deidé gaie  support for the draft resolution, espec in view of.  the assurances giyen by, Mr: Fair. ‘He also shared ‘  the view of the delegate of  Spain that a Member State’  should nok necessarily be regarded as being over-, °  represented if it had five nationals od the staff. He }  would merely propose that the word "bétter"” ir the  second paragraph-of the English text be replaced by  "adequate'. ; a LL ; ;     - () The sponsors of the “draft résolution ivet-  cated | that the word "adequate" correnp: ded   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  emctly to the modniné of a th cto sn 4 pte,
(8) “The CHADUMAN prisposrd et We firet sentence  of ba third paragraph be ‘emeided to réad; "Decides  to lavite the Director-Geheral not té consider any  very to be ovér-represented on the Secretariat  unless it has at least five star members .  pars + sx Ye ur ; x
(0) Mr. CAMPBELL (New Zealand) felt that all-  mémbers of thé Commission agreed that all Member  States shouid be adequately repressmtéd un the  Secretariat; but he thought it was evident fromm the +  report submitted in document 0C/ARM/ 7; aiid trom  the statemeits made to the Céanimission by the  rGenéral and by Mr. i Fare, that the Director-  General and his. staff were’ fully ‘conscious of that «  . nécessity, : The repdét sljowed that substantial  progress had béen rhade towards that aim, and  Meinber States ue realize that an ideal goographi-  cal distribution could not be’cbiained in à shoit space  of time, For ; réason, his ‘delegation was opposed  to any further progsure ‘being put upon the Director-  General fo do something which he had already stated  he was doing his best to’ accomplish; and would  Shazetore vote against the draft resolution, Le  wo ME, JÉLARK- (Canad) “shared at view. ‘Further-  more; he would be reluctant to stipulate any. minimum  figure in’connexion with adequate geogiaphical ;:  pepresentation, especially is Mr, Farr had already  drawn attention to the mathematical impossibility of  including five representatives from each Member -  State on the Secretariat, Neither was he sure that  the draft resolution was in'accordance with the pro-.  visions of paragraph 4 of Article VI of the Constitution,  relating to integrity. efficiency, and technical |  computence. : ; ct.  ga Mr, de HERREDO rly folt ‘hat.  sion ,  had Hot been’ prop operly  There \ Was no ‘questi où. A eds  pressure to bear an nb Bises or Geral oF. rir ating  that hé should necessarily Fécruit five Setiéiale go  each Méimber Stale. Draft résolution 8C/DR/84 y ie  simply intended tô lay’ down a criterion not és yet  included in thé régulations. Classification of States  ‘by categories, auch as ‘oyér stepresented Stajes!! or  ‘ender-represented States"; had proved an un tatistac-  tory ; method, Because Unesco way first set up in  London afd subséquently, establiphed in P is, here.  had been an influx of British or Frénch offle  an unjustified scale, “There was “He, ‘quéstion ¢  ‘sxything detrimental to. States ‘already’ a dequaté LAN  repiese ented on the he Storetariit, but tt woûld be \dvts-  able to consider À i jongrterm policy which oad guide  the Director-Gensral towards a better géograp! foal  distribution of popts. That was the purpose of tie  proposal, and the reason for which the Brazilian  delega ation wished to support it. .
(13); DIRECTOR. GRRL dia that à e's: Sécret-  ‘arlat had intended fo opposé the draft resolution ii’ -  he form in which it had originally been ‘presented, / “but that Ît was ‘prepared to welcome it 1 its existing  form; if Wie ni Staff members referfed to in |  the lait paragraph trald be reduced trom five to four.
585  The tigiirs five was felt té be à trifle
28 one ‘result of the resolution would:  a écriés of requésts from thoos Me  did not have five of their natiohéls on.  their representation increased té that  reslized, as the delegate of Brazil had pointed ost,  that he was under no obligation to meet those requests,  but a number of questions would undoubtedly be raised,  He would, in any case, adhere strictly to the provisions  governing appointments to the staff contained in the .  C on. : :  pau
13)’ ‘Replying to a question from the delegate of  Pakistan, Mr, FARR (Chisf, Pures of Personnel and  Management) redefined the criteria used by the Sec-:  retariat for determining the leval at which a Member  State was said to bé adequately represcniad, under-  represented, or oyer-reprouented. . The guiding i.  principle accepted by Unesco and pip United Nations  Agenbles Wes that there should » bé à relationship  between a Member Stife's financial contribution to. :  Unesco and ita representation od the Secretariat, .  sithough the interpretation ‘of that relationship varied  from Agency to Ageñoy. ‘The Unesco system took -  account not only: of the number. of posts) but also of .  the level of the post, that calculation being used  merely as a guiding. principle, À Member State. ‘which  contributed a gum of du to the Unesco bode, for  instance, would be entitied to nz mmber, of  higher graded posta being given’ à higher points ‘value.  When a State had 25 ‘per cent less than the number of  points to which it was entitled it was considered to be  under-represented, and when it had 25 per. cent more  than that number it was ‘considered to be over- …  represented. A Member State which had four of its  nationals serving in professional posts t, in some  cases; be felt to be over-represented, but if those  posts were four P- 1 posts, that would not be thé cage.
(14), “My. MARTINEZ ‘cond, Ecuador) carpe ie  amendment’ -oposed by the Director -Genera  said that) hat he. delegations’ submitting the proposal  were aiming at was the recognition of the principle  that the cri rion has in alloca! ‘posts should not  be the financial contribution of each country, He  instanced thee se & Ecuador which, under the.  system’ol’ pont’ Tair ibution, bi had the. right to only one  ‘and a häif répresentatives. Ad it had two ‘nationals  on the staff, any" other; even it well quaiified and  exceptionally. intelligent, would bé prevented from ’ ;  working as & member of the Secretariat. He thére-  fore believed that, if the number of patlonals of euch  country were {o be fixed at a ‘minimum of four, the  task of the Director-General would be made easier.
(45). Mr, | MUNRO’ ‘lAdstraua) ‘ten, ‘nat ‘there was some  confusion regarding the exact meaning of thé text in”  ite aijendéd form. In the wording proposed by the  Chairman thers wa i an Lmpliéation t hat the Director-  General would be entitled. to consider i a Member State’  as over: represented i it 4 ft had’ more à four”  nationals ‘oti thé staff. He wo dered, ther fore, |  whether it might riot be wiser to make the provision  more élastit by not mentièning ady specific  figure and allowing the Director-General to  apply the piinciple of geographical distribution  "adequately". Co   v-12
(16) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that that  remark was pertinent and wondered whether the  Commission would agree to vote cn the principle of  the resolution, leaving the redrafting of the final text  in the hands of a small group to be assisted hy the  Legal Adviser,
(17) Mr, JOCHAMOWITZ (Peru) said that, as co-  sponsor of the draft resolution under discussion, he  was prepared to accept four as a fair number for each  of the under-represented countries. He thanked the  Director-General for the goodwill he had shown in  recognizing that the request was well foundéd, He  realized that many factors had to be considered in the  choice of staff for the Secretarial: in the first place,  capability, then the question of geographical distribu-  tion, then the grade, and finally - the decisive factor -  the choice made by the Director-General, He had  ncted that the selection of staff members was most  carefully made and had had excellent results so far as  his three compatriots serving on the Secretariat were  concerned,  He said that the fact that the current session of the  Conference was being asked to fix the number four as  a minimum did not mean that, by the time that the  next session of the Conference took place, every  country should have four staff members; the aim of  the proposal was to assist the Director-General in  finding a more equitable solution to the serious  problem of geographical distribution.
(18) Mr. de HOOG (Netherlands) was in entiré agree-  ment with the arguments advanced’ against the draft  resolutioH. ‘He récalled that, at the eighth session of  the General Conference, the Administrative Commis-  sion had held à long distussion onthe criteria  applicable tc the recruitment of Secretariat officials,  that the Conferénce had adopted two resolutions  (V.2.41 and'V. 2.42) on the subject, and that the  Ad strative Commission, at à recent meeting, had  requested that those resolutions be carried forward  for the 1857-1058 périod, It would be Gnwise, in his  opinion, to add à new resolution which might "pset  the balance of the policy already adopted, There  would be reason for anxiety if financial considerations  ever caused any difficulty in the recruitment of a  qualified candidate, but Mr. de Hoog did not think that  that had ever occurred.
(19) The DIRECTOR- _GENERAL pointed out that, 4  the delegate of the Netherlands was under the ‘  impression that there would be nothing’ to’ prevent the  Director-General from’ appointing a third represénta-  tive of a Member State to the staff when that State was  considered to be adequately represented by two staff  members, he would hive té éérrect him.’ According  to the provisions of resolution V.2.43 of the eighth  session, he had to find that the proposed appointment  of a national whose country wis already considered to  be over-represented on the Secretariat was essential  to the efficient administration of the Secretariat before  making the appointment. He was not able to do that  in all cases.  {20) Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist *  Republics) said that his delegation appreciated the  principles on which the authors of draft resolution
586  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION
9C/DR/84 had worked, and did not think it right that. -  financial criteria should be the only ones considered  when making staff appointments, He pointed out hoy-  ever that, as the Director-General and the Chief of  the Bureau of Personnel had said, those criteria had  not been the only ones to be taken into consideration  in the past, and indeéd, nationals of States paying  very small contributions had not been debarred from  occupying various posts.  The delegate of the Soviet Union did not ‘think the  problem could be solved satisfactorily by quoting in  the draft resolution some arbitrary figure - be it  four, or five, or any other .~ as a criterion for |  judging whether or not any particular State paying  only a small contribution was adequately represented  on the Secretariat. In laying down criteria, it was  essential to take into consideration other factors also,  for instance, a country's population, the variety of its  culture, the composition of its population, etc. The  Soviet delegation would therefore support a draft  resolution proposing the establishment of such  criteria, but not specifying any arbitrary figures.
(21) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL felt that one point  raised by the delegate of the Union of Soviét Soctalist  Republics could be satisfied, and the resolution made  a more precise statement of fact, by the replacement  of the word "simply" in the third line of the second  paragraph by "as much as at present”.
(22) Mr. CLARK ‘(Caneda) thought there’ might be  some mipunderstarding of the Canadian positicn,  His delegation was not deténdirig the principle that  there should be a ratio between a Member State's  financial contribution and its representation on the  Secretariat, nor ‘was it trying to prevent any Member  State from being represented on the ‘staff, It was  merely endeavouring to ensure that the principle of  geographical ditiribution shoüld not take precedence  over the criteria of integrity, efficiericy and technical  competence laid down in paragraph 4 of Article VI ot  the Constitution. He believed it would be unwise to:  adopt à resolution which the Director-General had  rightly stated would open the door to pressure from a  number of Member States.
(23) Mr. Néuyen-QUANG- TRINH (Viet-Nar)recailed  that he had already had occasion to stress the import-  ance of the geographic factor in the recruitment of -  staff. As far as’ Member States were concerned, it '  was not simply a ‘matter of vanity or material interest:  their ééntributior to Unesco's work should include  close participation in the Secretariat's activities. In  spite of the faéf that Viet-Nam was not represented  on the staff; He thought nevertheless that draft  resolution $C/DR/ 84 should be treated with"a certain  reserve. The first’ part’ of the ‘draft,’ in which the ‘  Director -Géneral was invited not'té base his decisions  solely on the criterion of the financial contribution of  a Member State, introdiced into the prinéiplés to be  followed for recruitment a new element which had not  so far appeared in the regulations,’ and which seemed  acceptable; ‘ but ‘the ‘second part, which proposed  fixing a figure as a basis of evaluition, was not exempt  from criticism, bécause the figure would necessarily  be arbitrary, and there was also the risk that many  Member States would consider the figure as an   Q  objective which should at all costs be attained,  Mr. Nguyen-Quang-Trinh therefore stated that his  delegation cpproved the first part of the draft  resolution, with the amendment proposed by the  Australian delegate, but was in favour of the deletion  of the second part,
(24) Mr, BARON CASTRO (El Salvador) felt that the  important consideration was the unity cf the Grgani-  sation as an intérnational agency, and the ‘efficiency  of ite services, But delegates should not lose sight  of the fact that, by adhering to the criterion of geo-  graphical distribution, the Organization was adhering  to its basic principles; In his opinion, the draft  resolution muibmitted, with the Director-General's  amendment, would ensure a less unsatisfactory method  of staff selection than had been followed in the past.
(35) Mr. MCCLINTOCK (United States of America)  expressed the sympathy of his delegation with the  point of view of the American Republica, but thought  that due attention should be paid to the question of  competence and thé provisions of the Constitution.  Many small States unfortunately lacked sufficient  trained peradnñel for their own needs and were often  unwilling to releasé their national experts for inter-  national service, He hoped that that situation would  steadily improve; makinñg it easter for the Organiza-  tion to find the comipetent personnel it required in  those countries, He realized that the draft resolution  would not be btäding upon the Director-General, but  agreed with him that it would give rise to a number of  requests from Member States whose representation on  the staff was less than four. For those reasons, and  in spite of the sympathy he felt with the views  expressed by the sponsors of the resolution, he felt  obliged to vote against its adoption.
(26) Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) was  surprised that such a siiiple and sensible draft  resolution should give rise to so many comments and  reservations. The Disetor-Qeneril had explained  that, under the existing regulat fons, it was often  impossible for him to recriit nationals of certain  States which were already represénted in the Secret-  ariat at the level corresponding to their financial  contribution. Many delegations appeared to forget  that limitation on the Director-General's freedom of  action, and feared that there might be pressure from  the smalier States for the appointinent of their  nationals to the Secretariat, ‘Mr. Carneiro pointed  out that, in that case, there might be à suspicion that  ovétr-represented States had brought pressure to bear  on the Director-General in the past. He felt that the  proposed resolution would enable the rules to be  applied with more flexibility and would re-establish a  certain balance by reducing the importance accorded  to financial considerations, The figure given in the  second paragraph appeared to introduce a criterion  which had been lacking in the past, the absence of  which had led to faulty geographical distribution.  “The Brazilian delegate requested the Commission  to take note of the amendments suggested by the  Director-General and to proceed to a vote on the  draft resolution. .
(27) Mr. SUNDARAM (India) said that the Indian
887     = ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION v-12  delegation was also in complète Spay, 7 the  sponsors of the resolution, but pointed out  adoption of that resalution w à directly He u the  hands of the Director-General by foreing him to | |  attempt to recruit from those Member States which  were either under+teprese ted, or whose financial  contribution was high e à to warrant further  representation, He agreed, too, that adoption of the  resolution would result in additional pressure on the  Director-General by a pirbér of smaller Member  States, which would obyiowsly want to see their  representation increased to four, He shared the view,  expressed by the delagate of the United States of  Americe, that many of the smaller countries could ill  spare competent personnel to serve in international  organizations, and felt that the Commission could not  do more than ask the Director-General to continue  his current efforts to securé a more equitable distri-  bution of posts, Mr. Farr had already told the  Commission that staff vacancies were not even  announced to countries which were already over-  represented, and he was sure that both he and the  Director-General had completely understood the  spirit of the discussions that had taken place in the  Commission, and at the eighth session of the General  Conference. The Indian delegation did not, therefore,  find it possible to accept the resolution,
(28) Mr. BERTRAND (France) said that the French  delegation had followed the discussion with interest  and approved the principles which had guided the  sponsors of the draft resolution. Nevertheless he was  obliged to raise a point of order. At the stage the  discussion had reached, and bicause of the numerous  draft amendments which had baen proposed, most of  which related to the English text alone, the exact  content of the draft resolution Was no longer very  clear. It was therefore difficult for the Commission  to take a decision, In general; the principle upon  which the draft resolution was based had received the  approval of delegates, but there were differénces of  opinion as to the form of words to be adopted, and as  to the possible dangers of specifying some of the  details included in the original text. The French  delegation therefore proposed that a drafting commit-  tee, to include the Chief of the Bureau of Personnel  and the Legal Adviser, and the delegates of Brazil,  Canada, Spain and the Netherlands, should be asked to  revise the text so that the Commission might teke a  vote, with all the facts at its disposal, at a later  meeting.
(20) That proposal being seconded by the delegate of  the Federal Republic of Germany, the CHAIRMAN put  the motion to the vote.
(30) The proposal of the delegate of France for the  establishment of a drafting committee was adopted by
35 votes to 0, with 7 abstentions,  Part II. ‘Amendments to Staff Regulations and Rules
(31) Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) introducéd Part II of document
9C/ADM/1, drawing attention to the proposed review  of United Nations Staff Regulations to bé carried out  in 1957, which would be undertaken in consultation   v-12  with all the Specidlised Agencies, One small change  in the form of a rejfulation was proposed (paragraph
14) in order to make that regulation relate more  specifically to the aituation as it existed. The full  text of the Staff Regulations and Staff Rules was  included in Annex ! to the document.
(32) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion first on the  proposed amendment to Regulation 11.2
(33) Mr, POMPEI] (Italy) pointed out that the amended  text provided for à decision to be "approved from  time to time by the General Confererico''; whereas the  old text referrsd to a decision which appeared to be  final, He wondered why it should be necessary at  each session to reconsider the choice already made,  and asked fr an explansiion from the Director-  General about the genera! policy on which the proposal  was based,
(34) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) stited that there was  a tribunal at thé United Nations and for.that reason  recourse to the International Labour Organisation's  tribunal had always been cinsidered as à provisional  procedure. Under the policy of co-ordination, which  Unesco had always accepted ae a principle, it was  proposed that there should ti future be some unifica-  tion of the administrative tribunal procedures of the  various Specialized Agencies; All the Agencies which,  like Unesco, had originally opted for recourse to the
1LO tribunal had done so on a temporary basis, the  main consideraticn in the matier being the desire for  co-ordination,
(36) Miss LAISE (United States of America) remarked  that the point she had wished to raise had been  covered to some extent by the Legal Adviser. she  was not sure of either the need or the desirability of  adopting the proposed amendment at the moment, since  the whole situation regarding thn two international  tribunals was in process of consideration with respect  to the entire United Nations family. There was a  general move in the direction of establishing a single  juriediction, ag for example with respect to the  Pension Fund regulations. Although she appreciated  the intention of the Director -General, she wondered  whether it would be wise tc .memnxi the regulation  until the tribunal problem had been clarified.
(36) The Director-General's  by the delegate of France.  proposal was seconded
(37) Upon a vote being taken, the amendment to Steff  Regulation 11.2, proposed in paragraph 14 of document
9C/ADM/7, was adopted by 46 votes to 0, with 1  abstention.  ad aad  te  ria heer that the gies whether Unesco  should adhere to the Administrative Tribunal of the  International Labour Organisation, or to the Tribunal  of the United Nations should be placed on the agenda  of the tenth session of the General Conference, and  that appropriate documentation on that issue should  be prepared by the Secretarlat.  ‘
588  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION
(39) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL indicated that, in  preparing documents for the General Conference, the’  Secretariat took account not only of the resolutions of  the previous session; but also of suggestions made at  the previous session to which no objertion had been  made, He would, therefore, be glad to take the 3  proposal of the Australian delegate into account. i  =
(40) At the request of the CHAIRMAN, Mr. BERTRAND  (France) presented the draft resolution aubiiléted by:  the Belgian, Brazilian, French and Swiss delegations,  relating to R tion 9.1.1 of the Staff Regulations  (document 9C/DR/68). He recalled that, at the eighth  session of the General Conference; it had been laid ‘;  down that no termination should become effectivé.  until the Special Advisory Board had examined the;  matter and presented a report on the subject, The .*  Conference had established the Board, the compo- .  aition of which had proved satisfactory: * But immedi.  ately after the Montevideo Conference the Director-  General had decided that the proceedings and repôris  of the Board should be kept secret and had’ amended . f  the fitaff Rules along those lines (Rule 109, 12 (6). it  had appeared to the’ delegations of the four countries,  sponsoring draft resolution 9C/DR/68 that there vos  an obvious contradiction between the secrecy. .  requested by the Direcftor-Géneral ; and the safeguard’  for officials to be afforded by the Advisory Hoard,  That contradiction had been rioted by the Administra- |  tive Tribunal of the International Labour Organisation  in fis judgement of 29 October 1955 (the Fronch  delegate quoted the preamble to judgements 22, 23  and 24 in support of his’ statement) and it was there-  fore in agreement with the statements of the ILO  Tribunal that Belgium, Brazil, France and Switzerland  were presenting a draft amendment whereby the  reports and opinions of the Special Advisory Board,  with a statement of the reasons therefor, would no  longer be confidential but would be communicated to :  the staff members concerned.
(41) The DIRECTOR - ‘GENERAL’ drew ‘attention’ to the  statement he had made during the ‘eighth session of  the Gerieral Conference, at the 22nd meeting of the -  Administrative Commission (Records of the eighth  session, paragraph 42 on page 629 of the English text),  in which he had made it clear that he proposédto °  follow the practice adopted by the United Nations with  reepect to the Special Advisory Board, and had  indicätéd that thé purpose of the flew ‘regulation was ;  to enable the | Director-General to érisuré. Mat his a  met the highest’ requirements of the Constitution. ea  haë theretoré establishéd thé Board according to the ‘  priaciplés agrecd, and had sought the advice of the ;  President of thé International Court of Justice “with 7 i  regard to its Chalfman, "He had found, as had been’:  his understandin (during thé discussions ‘of thy cas  seesion, that the proceedings of the Unitéd N: rain Ee  Spécial Advisory Board were private, and ccnlideëi  and he had felt that hé had nô power to make ie 1  ceedings’ of the Unesco Board public’ without a nor a  dispensation from the Genéral Coaterence, When he -  had been attacked for failure to carry out his évoi éd  intention to protect staff members; he ‘had made il  clear that he did not wish to take arbitrary action,’  but sought rather the advice of competent people vho   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  nad rick previously been concerned in (be case. The  persons elected for memberahip of ihe Board were  pigh-anking Members of the Secretiriat, and the”  Board had giver him most valuable advice, which he  had atidied with great care although he had Bot acted  in full conformity with it,” He politiéd’out that he  could not put a Départment Divectsr, for instarice; in  a position where he would have to state publicly  certain views and opinions that might hot be in  accordance with the final decisfon ‘of thé Director-  General, The fact that such officers imew that their  statements were to bé made public might well  influence the opinions expressed, and ha would fail in  his aim of obtaining à frank and unbiased view of the  case. He felt that there was already. sufficient  safejuard against arbitrary action by the Director-  General, as that official was required under Regulation
9.1,1 of the Staff Regulations {9 give his reasons for  appointments terminated undef its provisions. The  resdons given, and the evidence to support them, were  subject to evaluation by. the Appeals Board and the  Administrative Tribunal, He was strongly against  making the proceedings of the Board public.  Hé further pointed out thist the proposal, if adopted,  would represent a departu‘ié from the system followed  by the United Nations; which, coming at a time when a  general review was to be made of United Nations and  Specialized Agency Staîf Regulations, could only be  considered as prematur: and unwise,
(42) Miss LAISE (Unitéd States of America) said she  fouitd some difficulty fii giving the draft resolution  adequate attention as shé was in posséssion of  insufficient information on the subject.’ Her delegation  supported Unesco's policy of adhering to United  Nations practices. : She had been present during the  discussion of à similar resolution at thé United:  Nations General Assembly, and that had been rejected  on the basis of representations, of the same kind as  those made by the Diréctor-General, by the  Secretary-General of the United Nations. She there-  fore felt it might be unwise to adopt the draft  resolution before the results of the United Nations  review of Staff Regulations were known, but proposed  that the matier be placed in the hands of the Executive  Board for study and report to the tenth session, in the  light of the results of that review and other related  factors.
(43) Mr. BERTRAND (France), referring to the  Director-General's statement concerning the ditfi-  culties which might arise if the proceedings of the  Special Advisory Board were public, pointed out that,  according to the proposal in the draft resolution ‘the  proceedings themselves might remain secret” (para-  graph 4) and that therefore the Director -General's  argument was pointless. The reporis and conclusions  of the Board were anonymous, and there was therefore  no reason why they should not be communicated to the  interested parties, in conformity with the general  principles of law.
(44) Mr. RICHNER (Switzerland) requested the  Commission to approve the draft resolution presented  by the four delegations. "Everyone was aware that the  proposal was connected with the recent case of the  dismissal of several officials by the Director-General.    V-12  Without wishing to revert to thas matter, he felt  nevertheless that it had caused à certain amount of  harm to Unesco, and that, in future, means should be  found to guarantee the independence of international  officials.
(45) Mr; de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) hoped  that the Director-Géneral would not consider the  proposed measure as directed in any way against him  personally, It was a general resolution, which would  have to be applied by his successors aswell as by  himself, the purpose of which was to translate the  il.tetions’of the General Conference info practice, to  give certain guiranteés to staff members, and to  protect thein against arbitrary decisions. And in  order to be protected, an official should be made  aware of the risks to which he was exposed. :  Furthermore; the Brazilian delegate pointed out  that, when a body such aë the Special Advisory Board  met, it was illusory to think that its decisions could  really be kept secret. 14 would be better, in such  cases, he felt, for the person concerned to receive  the information officially through the Director-General,  rather than through third parties who might or might  not be corractly informed. ; : .  Mr. Carneiro thought that the Director-General  would be wise to reconsider the problem from the  practical point of view, He was convinced that Unesco  had no need to wait for suggestions from the United  Nations each time a decision had to be taken, and that  it was perfectly feasible, on occasion, for Unesco  itself to point the way; it was not precluded from  thirking properly, or from acting properly.
(46) Mr. TVETERAAS (Norway) considered it  extremely important that staff members should be  protected in the best possible manner, and, so far as  possible, in the manner chosen by them. His delega-  tion was therefore in favour of the proposed draft  resolution. .
(47) Mr, Nguyen-QUANG-TRINH (Viet-Nam) said  that his delegation strongly supported draft reablution
9C/DR/68. He approved the arguments formulated by  the French and Brazilian delegates, and whilat he had  listened with interest to the suggestions made by the  delegate of the United States of America, he did not  think it would be advisable to adopt the course she  advocated. Thére were Staff Regulations and Rules  governing the Unesco staff and the necessity for  amending them hid been recognized, If officials were  to show integrity, it was necessary to avoid any  arbitrary action as far as they were concerned, and  not to give them the impression of having been  wrongly treated. The Viet-Namese delegation there-  fore requested the Commission to take a decision on  the draft resolution without waiting for the United  Nations decision concerning its own staff.
(48) Mr, POMPEI (Italy) regarded the draft reso-  lution as a general rule for the future rather than as  the solution to à given case. At the Montevideo  Conference increased powers had beun given to the  Director-General, and the Special Advisory Board  had been created in order to provide safeguards for  the staff. The problem before the Commission had  to be solved by the basic principles of law, which
689.   v-12  precluded acceptance of the idea that the conclusions  of the Spécial Advisory Board should remain secret.  The Italian delegate felt that, if that were not  admitted, it would be better to consider abolishing the  Special Advisory Board, as the Director-General had  suggested, rather than to keep in being a safeguard  which had no real effect. Tha Italian delegation would  therefore vote in favour of the draft resolution,
(49) Mr, CAMPBELL (New Zealand) said that his  delegation had originally been in favour of the draft  resolution, but he had been impressed by the argu-  ments against its adoption advanced by the Director-  General. Fe wondered if the Director -General's  attitude was in any way modified by the explanatory  statement made by the delegate of France, and also  wondered whether it was absolutely necessary that  the persons selected to serve on the Advisory Board  should be high-ranking members of the staff.
(50) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that the  statement made by the delegate of France in no way  changed his attitude towards the draft resolution,  since he did not believe that the Board could communi-  cate "its reports and opinions, accompani¢d by a  statement of the ressons therefor," without going into  the arguments thdt had motivated its decision and the  evidence presen{dd by both sides, There was, in  substance, little er'sñoÿ bétwoen what was called  for in the draft repolütion and making the whols  proceedings publié, Furthérmore, if an appéal were  subsequently made to the Administrative Tribunal of  the International Labour Office, that Tribunal, being  in possession of report and opinions, and the  reasons for the decision of the Board, would probably  wish to call before ft any member of the Board for  further questioning thereon; and thus elicit publicly  additional details concerning the proceedings of the  e emphasize once again that  control of arbitrary action was vested in the Tribunal  designated by the General Conference. He would always  be prepered to state his reasons for any terminations  under Regulation 9.1.1 of the St:{f Regulations.  So far as the second question rained by the delegate  of New Zealand was concerned, he explained that the  Director-General re | advice at the wis: t and  most disinterested level possible, and that such  counsel was usually best p ded by staff members  in the higher grades. \
(51) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) seconded the  proposal made by the sarah of the United States of               America to the effect that thp matter be referred to  the Executive Board for congideration in the light of  certain information that was; iiot yet available. No one  doubted that the only motive of the spanscrs of the -  draft resolution was the protection ‘of staff mémbers,  but he hoped that the Commigsion would consider very  carefully before taking a decision in a matter which  went against the practice of, thé United Nations, to  which a great deal of though been given, “More-  over, members should bear {ih mind that, if the  proceedings of the Special Alfvisory Board were not  secret, those proceedings wokld be introduced into  the legal processes of appesll as a fresh piece of  evidence. He agreed with the Director-General that  he might have difficulty in ining dompetent persons  to serve on the Board if they knew that any opinions                        +590  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  there expressed were to be made publ ot  connexion, he also agreed that the fact that the entire  proceedings of the Board were not to be made public  made but litile difference, He felt, too, that some of  the arguments put forward during the discussion had  been influenced by the history of recent cases that .  had received much publicity. He urged members to  forget those cases, which had already been judged,  and to consider rather the broad implications  consequent upon adoption of the proposal made,
(62) Replying to à question from the delegate of  Canada, the DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that action  of termination was taken only after the report of the  Special Advisory Board had been received,
(53) The CHAIRMAN then declared the discussion  closed and put the amendmerd. proposed by the  delegate of the United States of America to the vote.
(54) That amendment was rejected by 20 votes to 17,  with 4 abstentions. .
(55) Upon a vote being taken, the amendment proposed  in paragraph 6 of document 9C/DR/68 was adopted by
20 votes to 7, with 10 abatentions.
(56) Mrs, LEFAUCHEUX (France) drew the Com-  mission's attention to a question relating to the  Staff Regulations: equal rights for the officials of the  Secrotariat without distinction of sex. She recalled  that the Economic and Social Council had established  a Commission on the Status of Women, whose task it  was to inquire into discriminatory measures against  women and to study means of ensuring respect for  the principle of equal rights for mea and women,  That Commission had initiated the preparation of an  ‘international convention which was already in force in  several countries. Article 3 laid down that men and  women in the public service should have identical  working conditions. .  Mrs. Lefaucheux asked whether it was true that the  women members of the Secretariat did not enjoy all  the advantages granted to men, for example, in the  case of family allowances, which were governed by  different rules for men and women, and in the matter  of home leave, which was applicable to all members  of the family only when the official was a man. The  delegate of France suggested that the Administrative  Commission should request the Conference to recom-  mead that the Executive Board include the question  of equality of rights for officials among the matters  to be studied by the Director-General in 1057.
(57) Mr, FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) believed that the proposal made by the  delegate of France would fall within the framework  of the proposal, to be considered by the Administra-  tive Commission, that tho report of the United Nations  Salary Review Committeé be examined by the Execu-  tive Board at its next session. The points raised by  the French delegate had been discussed in consider-  able detail in that report.
(58) At the request of the CHAIRMAN, the delegate  of France indicated that that procedure would be  satisfactory to her.  The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m,