PROGRAMME COMMISBION  there would be a single country programme and no  distinction of resources.  He then asked the Chairman whether, owing to the  lateness cf the hour, she would prefer him to conclude  his introduction at the next meeting.  IV-7
(27) The Commission decided to ask Mr. Adiseshiah  to complete his statement at its next meeting.  The meeting rose at 6.40 p.m.  SEVENTH MEETING
16 November 1956, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. ANAS (Afghanistan)  ITEM 10 OF THE AGENDA; EXPANDED PROGRAMME OF  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:(continued) (Report of the Direclor-General  for 1985, documents 9C/3 and 9C/PRG/24)
(1) Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  resumed the survey he had begun the day before. He  stated that the Téchnical Assistance Committee of the  Economic and Social Council examined "headquarters  costs", or administrative overheads, at regular  intervals, and that there was elaborate control over  such expenditure; another review groûn would meet  in New York in the near future. He next referred to  the valuable heip and guidance given by thé Executive  Board with regard to the implementation of the Tech-  nical'Assistance programme; a working party of the  Board had made a careful study of the contribution  made by Unesco in the last five years, The Board  intended to review twice a ‘vear the development of  the programme and the technical soundness of its pro-  jects. In accordance with thé Montevideo resolution  (IV.1.9.5) concerning the publication of reports on  Technical Assistance, the Director-General had pub-  lished three such reports; they had been circulated  to Member States, the Board and non-governmental  organizations. The subjects of the reports were;  "Library Education in Israel" (by L. Carnovsky, in  English). "Organization and development of the National  Research Council of Egypt" (by F,W.G. White, in  English), and "Le Reboisement et l'amélioration des  forêté en Macedoine Yougoslave' (by Pierre Bouvaret,  in French),  Two other reports, "El ehtrenamiento de los  maestros no titulados en sérvicid en Ccita Rica"  (by Luis B, Prieto Figueroa, In Spanish) and "Une  mission d'assistance est arrivée - -‘Centre de ‘dock  of the reports would be issued tn evi  of the Organization, Document ‘aC/5 rod 11] gave  the main features of the 1957-1958 programme, In
1986 Uneaco's allocation for Technical Assistance was
45,000, 000, approximately $4, 600, 000 would be avail-  able. in 1957, but of that sum only $3, 800,000 would  te in ‘’useble” funds. ‘The 1958 total might be near
18,200,000. Unesco would operate in seven fields:
335  primary and secondary education, fundamental educa-  tion, technical education,’ scientific research, ‘science  teaching and’ scientific and technical documentation,  and, finally, consultative services. -Primary and  secondary eracation,’ fundamental education and  scientific research would receive the lergest  amounts of assistance, In the social sciences a smal)  start had been made in 1955 and 1956; the activity  would be stepped up in the years to come.’ As to the  form Technical Assistarice would take, Mr. Adiséshiah  said Unesco would continue to concentrate on experts,  equipment añd fellowships. The programme was not  expanding fast enough and governments gave priority  to current undertakings; accordingly, there was not  enough money left for new projects, equipment and  fellowships. He called attention to the Board's recom-  mendation that equipment should be given not only when  experts went to a particular country but also when fel-  lows returned to it. In 1957-1958, increased emphasis  would be put on the long-term institutional aspect of  Technical Assistance in staff and equipment, so that  something would bé left behind by Unesco when it  pulled out of a country. .  The Technical Assistance programme was now com-  pletely integrated with Unesco's’ regular prograinme:  assistance to arid zonés in Egypt, Israel, Pakistan  and Turkey would find its natural place in the major  project for the development of arid lands; ‘ ‘assistance  in primary education in Bolivia, Colornbia, Ecuador,  Haiti, Honduras, Nicaragua, Pahama and Peru would  fit into the major project for teacher training in Latin  America. In the Middle East, Technical Assistance  would be provided to the Arab States Fundamental  Education Centre, to the Desert Institute in Egypt, etc.  With regard to héadquarters costs, Mr, Adiseshiah  pointed out that those of Unésco had beén reduced. from
9,9 per cent in 1955. to 9.4 per cént in 1956; they were  the lowest adininistrative costs among all the United  Nations and Specialized Agencies. As regarded Africa,  Unesco's Technical Assistance activities covered  Ethiopia, the Gold Coast, Liberia, Sierra Leone,  Somaliland and the Sudan, In East Asia, in addition  to Unesco's Technical Assistance activities in China,  Korea and Japan would probably, receive help in funda-  mental education. In Europe, Unesco gave Technical  Assistance to Yugoslavia and negotiations were under   IV-7 PROGRANME  way with Spain. In South Asia and the South Pacific,  which included Afghanistan, Cambodia, Ceylon, India,  Indonesia, Laos, Malaya, Nepal, Pakistan, the  Philippines, Thailand, Burma and South Viet-Nam,  the largest Technical Assistance project in 1957-
1958 was the Western Institute of Technology in Bom-  bay, which had been the subject of discussion fn the  Economic and Social Council. The Government of  India was giving $5,000,000 towards the cost of the  Institute and had asked for Unesco's assistance.  Funds contributed by the Union of Soviet Socialist Re-  publics, Byelorussia and Ukraine would be used to  implement that project, but the Technical Assistance  Committee had felt that too much assistance came  from a single source; it had recommended that the  multilateral character of Technical Asaistance should  be preserved, and it would discuss the matter anew  the following week.  Mr, Adiseshiah drew the attention of the Commis-  sion to the draft Conference resolutions {paragraphs
18-46, pages 225-227, in document 9C/5 Annex I) and  said that, in 6 years of operation, Technical Assis-  tance had furthered Unesco's aims through projects  which had been successful because they promoted  international understanding. The future of the Expan-  ded Programme cf Technical Assistance would depend  on the possibility of increasing its funda so that it  could finance new projects; existing resources could  only support continuing ones and could not pay for the  launching of new projects. That had been clearly  stated by the Executive Board, which had also recom-  mended some revision of terminology, social science  research, provisionof equipment, granting of fellow-  ships, etc.  Mr, Adiseshiah stressed that Technical Assistance  was the first really joint effort of the United Nations  family. It covered such Unesco activities as the  Indian scientific documentation centre, the translation  of books in Burma, fundamental education in Thailand,  the Cambodian fundamental education ceatre, the  communal development of "barrios" in the Philip-  pines, the problems facing the Mexican universities,  new methods of teaching and technology in Guatemala  and five other Central American countries, special  schools for international understanding in Ecuador,  the Inter-American Rural Normal School in Rubio,  Venezuela, and the unique institution set up in Colom-  bla: an educational bank endowed with $25,000,000  for the building of schools and the provision of educa-  tional equipment. .  The Expanded Programme of Technical Assistance  was well planned and conceived; it had been very  well received; and it deserved the increasing support  and guidance of Unesco'’s Member States.
(2) As Rapporteur of the Cémmitteé on Reports of  Member States, Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) stated  that the Committee had not studied the Technical  Assistance chanters of the reports in detail, but had  noted that probiémé relating to that field were given  considerable prominence in the reports, He drew  the Commission's attention to two important comments  in paragraphs 16 and 17 of the Committee's report  (document 9C/PRG/2).  The first comment concerned the spirit in which  Member States gave or received Technical Assis-  tance; the Committee thought it important to remind    COMMISSION  Member States that Technical Assistance was given  in the interests of international understanding and co-  operation and should not be considered solely from  the point of view of the benefits which individual States  derived therefrom,  The second comment bore on the problem of equip-  ment, The Committee had noted that it was pointed  out in many of the reports that full value could not be  obtained from the services of experts without suitable  equipment; emphasis was also laid on the need to  review the proportion of the total amount provided for  expert missions to be allotted to equipment.
(3) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium) was glad to see that  the percentage of administrative costs had been reduced  througheut the Technical Assistance budget, and con-  gratulated the Secretariat on that result. The Belgian  delegation fully approved of the proposal to use the  services of young experts in Technical Assistance  activities, as such a system would have several advan-  tages, making up for the shortage of experts, gradually  training young people for the difficult type of work in  question, and proving beneficial even to the countries  which supplied the experts, since the latter would gain  in knowledge und efficiency.  With regard to the problem of sending out social  sclence experts, Mr, Hacquaert felt that he should  give the Secretariat and the Technical Assistance  Board a word of warning; such experts should not  merely carry out inquiries, but should also help to  develop certain social institutions - a task which, in  view of the differences of opinfons and trends from  country to country, was liable to give rise to difficul-  ties. In selecting such experts, therefore, conaider-  able weight should be given to impartiality of outlook.  The Belgian delegation had noted with satisfaction  the project concerning the establishment of teacher  training centres, which would be annexed to existing  or future centres. The Belgian Government had set  an example in that respect by including a senior teacher  training school in the State University recently opened  at Elizabethville in the Belgian Congo.
(4) Mr. SAWADA (Japan) seid his delegation had  carefully studied and was in full accord with the Ex-  panded Programme of Technical Assistance and with  the draft resolutions in peragraphs 18-46 of document
9C/5, Annex I. Japan was very glad that Untsco's  share of the United Nations Technical Assistance funds  had been increased. He recalled that, at Montevideo,  a large number of delegations, including the Japanese,  had been in favour of an expansion of the Technical  Assistance programme. He praised the fair attitude  of the majority of Member States in relation to Tech-  nical Assistance; the implementation of the programme  would requiré much talent, but also sufficient funds.  The Tokyo Conference of 32 National Commissions had  heartily récommended the Technical Assistance pro-  gramme and thé Tokyo meeting of experts on the Ex-  change of Persons had éxpressed the same feeling.  Mr, Sawada hoped the General Conference would do  likewise. The Tokyo meetings had discussed at length  the possibility of making use of "junior" technicians  who could not only give assistance but also acquire  further training in international Technical Assistance.  The scheme was worthy of serious study; it might  help to achieve appreciable savings in the operation of
336   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  the Technical Assistance programn:e, which he did  not hesitate to call Unesco's most important activity.  Japan pledged its full co-operation to make the pro-  gramme successful, In the last three years, nine  Japanese experts had been sent to Brazil, Afghanistan,  Mexico, etc. , to the entire satisfaction of the re-  ceiving countries, and Japan would always be happy  to send experts and technicians to any country which  asked for them.
(5) Mr. VAN PEURSEN (Netherlands) said that  Unesco's participation in the Expanded Programme of  Technicil Assistance had the full support of the  Netherlands, whose experts ranged all over the  world, He stressed that Technical Assistance should,  however, be more than technical only: Unesco should  see to the shaping of new mentalities in the sending  and in the receiving countries. Not only tha profes-  sions) skill of the experts, but their state of mind,  their interest in and intimate understanding of the  people among whom they were going to work, were  important. In that connexion, it might be useful if  training centres for Technical Assistance experts  were established. Mr. Van Peursen thought that in  addition to top-level experts, whose services could  be secured only for brief periods, younger experts,  who could stay on mission longer, should be sent. The  Netherlands was in favour of a long-term Technical  Assistance policy; that required a solution of the  currencies problem. It was necessary that the moneys  made available to Unesco should not affect the multi-  lateral character of the undertaking. Finally, in  regard to industrialisation, he thought it essential to  remember that psychological education and socio-  logical research were required to prevent a loss of  social equilibrium in many areas. He stressed the  danger of the vacuums that might be created by indus-  trislization - in social relations, for instance - and  expressed the belief that, to avoid that risk, Tech-  nical Assistance should be based on sound sociological  principles.
(6) Mr. RAADI (Iran) had listened with interest to  the Assistant Director-General's statement and was  glad to note the new turn taken by Technical Assis-  tance activities during the past two years. He had  also been glad to hear that the Executive Board's re-  port had been well received by the Technical Assis-  tance Board. The Iranian delegation would support  all the changes suggested, since they would make the  whole system more flexible and increase its efficiency;  it hoped, however, that the Secretariat would draw  Meicher States’ attention to those changes and give  them any necessary explanations, so that they would  know how to make their requests for assistance iu the  correct form. . ;  Mr. Raadi next referred to the new system of AU jv a-  ting funds to Member States, which was for the Tech: -  nical Assistance Board to allot a total sum to éach  government. It was then thé responsibility of govern-  ments, after consultation with the Ministries or inati-  tations concerned, to divide out those funds over the  fields covered by the various organs of the United  Nations. Mr. Raadi saw the advantages of such a  system, but thought that Member States should be  advised to allow for a minimum percentage to be allo-  tated to each Specialized Agency's field of work, in
337  IV-7  order not to arouse any feeling of rivalry between  those organizations.  He agreed with the delegates of Japan and the Nether-  lands that the problem of experts should be considered  as one of basic importance, He pointed out that mis-  sions of experts often imposed a somewhat heavy  financial burden on the underdeveloped countries re-  ceiving them, so that the latter sometimes decided to  forego them, The Iranian delegation suggested the  following practical ways of remedying that serious  disadvantage:  Experts from countries which were highly developed  economically and acientifically might train national  experts who would be able to carry on their work after  their departure;  Fellowships allocated by the Specialized Agencies  might be combined with a programme for the training  of national experts; in that connexion, the proposal of  the delegate of the Netherlands relating to the estab-  lishment of an international institute for the training  of national experts was an excellent one;  The system of fellowships might be revised, with  a view to increasing their number and duration,  The training of national experts was therefore a  problem of prime importance and its successful solu-  tion might do much to promote international under-  standing and co-operation, particularly as such ex-  perts were likely in due course to become international  experts, Moreover, national experts might act as a  pioneer force in each country, for the introduction of  reforms in various fields.  As a means of solving certain financial difficulties,  Mr. Raadi suggested that the Specialized Agencies  and the Technical Assistance Board might work out a  policy whereby governments would undertake to meet  part of the local costs, up to a certain maximum  proportion.  The Iranian delegation was in favour of long-term  Technical Assistance projects. It had been gratified  to learn that several regional programines were being  carried out. In the Middle East, however, some  countries were not included in the system of regional  Technical Assistance and Mr. Raadi suggested that  they might be helped to combine.  Lastly, Mr. Raadi asked for additional information  about the manner in which it was intended to co-ordinate  the Technical Assistance programme with the general  programme. in the programme of direct aid to Mem-  ber States, he hoped that the tendency to give experts  purely advisory functions was not the outcome of a  general policy, and he would be glad of some clarifi-  cation on that point.
(7) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) had followed the Assis-  tant Director-General's statement on the very extensive  programme of Technical Assistance with keen interest,  but feared that it might bf very difficult for delegates  to form a general picture of all the activities concerned,  since they were described in many different and lengthy  documents. He therefore suggested that the Secre-  tariat take steps forthwith to present the Conference  and Member States with a single document, divided  into the following three parts:  a chapter containing factual information;  a statement of the problems to be discussed;  the decisions of thé Programme Commission.  Mgr Maroun was not sure that progress had been   IV-7 PROGRAMME  achieved in the field of Technics) Assistance, As  he saw'it, Technical Assistance was like a tripod,  resting on experts, equipment and fellowships, none  of which could be fully effective without the co-  operation of Member States, If the programme had  not proved entirely successful with regard to expert  missions, it was probably due partly to the experts  and partly to Unesco itself, but it was also due to  Member States, the majority of which did not appear  to have established any interdepartmental liaison  body to ensure fruitful co-operation with the experts.  Mgr Maroun hoped that Mr, Brunsvick would let the  Commission know what information on that specific  point was contained in the reports of Member States.  Mgr Maroun seconded Mr. Raadi's suggestion that  the Secretariat be asked to inform Member States of  the development of the general approach to Technical  Assistance, for it was essential that action taken by  the central authorities should be followed up and  extended by national bodies.  Lastly, the Lebanese delegate drew Mr. Adiseshiah's  attention to the failure to take sufficient account of  audio-visual aids in the assistance afforded to under-  developed countries, and recommended that efforts  to remedy that shortcoming be made by the Secre-  tariat, the Technical Assistance Board and Member  States themaelves.
(8) Mr. MATE (Gold Coast) was grateful for the Ex-  panded Programme of Technical Assistance and  endorsed the views expressed by the represéntative of  the Netherlands on integration of Technical Assistance  with its environment - linking ideals with reality.  Technical Assistance projects of particular interest  to his country wère the staffing of its engineering  institufe and rosd-building, Much assistance had been  received from Unesco in the Gold Coast, and much  had been done by the country itself in fundamental and  mass education and in community development, Mr.  Matè thought the éxperts should be chosen principally  to ensure the formation of local cadres - a heritage  Unesco could leave behind when its task was finished.
(9) Mr. AYE (Union of Burma) was very glad of the  expansion of the Technical Assistance programme,  but wondered whether the allocations for experts,  equipment and fellowships had been well proportioned.  In his opinion equipment was the greatest need in Asia.
(10) Mr. AVIDOR (lsrael) said there was an'obvious  advantage in allowing each éountry to construct its  Technical Assistance programme as it thought fit,” He  was afrald, however, that, in many underdeveloped  countries, Ministries would insist on priorities for  the technical fielda to the detriment of education. A  minimum of the Technical Assistance budget allocated  to Unesco - say 10 per cent - should be set aside for  education, in order to prevent the Technical Assistance  programme from becoming one-sided. With respect  to experts and fellowships, he pointed out that the  countries which requested and received Technical  Assistance were the "have-not" ones; experts for  underdeveloped countries were usually selected from  Western Europe or America and fellows were sent to  those regions to study; that called for a reform: in  both cases Unesco should have recourse to what he  called the scientifically and technologically
338     COMMISSION  semi-developed countries, whose nationals were better  able to understand the needs and mentality of the  underdeveloped ones.
(11) Mr. FAIREY (Canada) congratulated and thanked  Mr. Adiseshiah for his very comprehensive statement.  The Canadian delegation wished to reiterate its support  for Technical Assistance and the complete co-ordina-  tion of its efforts, The projects envisaged should  continue to be related not only to those of other United  Nations Agencies, but to thé Colombo Plan, the Inter-  national Bank, and local research and training pro-  grammes, Technical Assistance efforts should be con-  solidated through regional representatives of the  Technical Assistance Board, The growing trend towards  the recipient countries playing a more decisive rôle in  formulating projects was very welcome, However,  there appeared to be a trend away from sending fellows  and trainees from thé so-called underdeveloped coun-  tries to the more highly industrialized ones. Also, a  large proportion of Unesco's Technical Assistance funds  were assigned to projects already in operation, or  planned, in the recipient countries, and that led toa  shortage of funds for new projects. High priority should  be given by countries planning their programmes to  scientific projects and research in matters of immediate  value, in keeping with the needs and resources of the  country itself. Canada believed that recipient coun-  tries should do the initial planning and accept a major  responsibility for the operation of a project after it was  well started; a willingness to do so showed that the  project was really desired. In regard to financial  matters, Canada congratulated the Executive Board on  its efforts to reduée the proportion of the funds devoted  to the administration of Technical Assistance and hoped  for further success in reducing those costs. At the  recent Technical Assistance Committée meeting,  Canada, Norway and the United States of America had  called upon Member States to make their contributions  convertible. ''Non-usable" contributions forced re-  cipient countries to negotiate intergovernmental agree-  ments for the use of blocked resources, and the pro-  jects thus devised could not conform to the priorities  established by the Technical Assistance Board. The  Canadian delegation regretted, therefore, that Unesco  intended to continué to encourage special projects  arising from unilateral currency restrictions. Bilateral  agreements on special projecis, due to the same  causes; wére dlien to the very naturé and aims of  multilateral Technical Assistance. Only a gradual  assimilation of difficult curréncies to more usable  forms could ensure the respect of the priorities laid  down by the governments themselves, Canada wished  to assure the Commission and the Confererice of its  continued support of Technical Assistance activities.  Canada's contribution to the United Nations Technical  Assistance programme between 1951 and 1957 had .  been the fourth largest; in 1956-1957 it would bé third,  after the United States of America and thé United King-  dom. In per capita contribution, Canada was second  only to Denmark, The previous year's contribution  was $1,500,000; it was now increased to $1,800,000  and the same amount would be forthcoming in each of  the following two years. Experts and training facilities  would continue to be provided in increasing numbers,  It should be remembered that those sums were 8  compared with Canada's contribution to the Colombo   PROGRAMME COMMISSION 1v-8  Plan, in accord with the priorities laid down by the  recipient countries; the Commission might be inter-  ested to know that Canada's contribution to that Plan -  similar in purpose to the Technical Assistance pro-  gramme - had amounted so far to over $135, 000, 000,  The Canadian Parliament, of which Mr, Fairey was  a member, had just voted an $8,000,000 increase to  its annual appropriation for the Colombo Plan, bring-  ing it up to $34, 400, 000.
(12) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  asked to be allowed to make a factual correction to’  paragraph 8 of document 9C/5 Annex I. ‘The sentence    beginning with "In 1957-1958 Unesco ,.." should be  deleted, since the Technical Assistance Committee  had laid down in July that there would be no more  special projects after 1958; the document had been pre-  pared in December and distributed in March.
(13) The CHAIRMAN asked whether any more delegates  wished to have their names included in the list of  speakers and, after noting those who wished to be heard,  declared the list closed.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  EIGHTH MEETING
16 November 1956, at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)
(1) The CHAIRMAN reminded the Committee of the  deadline, that same evening, for new proposals rela-  ting to major projects or to projects contained in the  Annex to document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1, aimed at  absorbing the extra $1,000,000 voted by the General  Conference. Other proposals would be out of order,  and some already handed in were in fact not receivable.  ITEN 10 OF THE AGENDA : EXPANDED PROGRAMME OF  TECHNICAL ASSSSTANCE (continued) (Repurt of the Direclor-General  for 198$, documents 9C/3 and 9C/PRG/24) *
(3) Mr. EKANAYAKA (Ceylon) expressed apprecia-  tion for the lucid statem nt on Technical Assistance  made by Mr, Adiseshiah.  He informed the Commission that, in the early days  of Technical Assistance, a fundamental education -  project had been started in Ceylon in the village area  of Hingarakgoden, Unfortunately no évaluation of the  resulls of that experiment had been made, but the  general impression was that it had failed to live up  to expectations, Since 1954, it had been the respon-  sibility of the Govemment, and its future was being  watched with interest. If Unesco had evolved any  technique for evaluating work in the field of funda-  mental education, it would be useful to evaluate the  results achieved by that centre.  In the past, the educational system of Ceylon had  been purely académic in character, but now a great  need was felt for scientifically- -minded men and  women, fitted to be leaders in commerce, trade,  industry and agriculture. The educational system was  being changed to suit those needs, but help was re-  quired and the problem was urgent. He asked whether  Unesco could help his Government in that respect if  requested to do so.  It was obvious that the development of Technical
339  Assistance depended on the dvailability of resources.  He saw no reason to suppose that the operation of the  scheme would be more difficult if funds were increased,  and thought it would be regréttable if funds were only  sufficient for continuing activities. It had given him  great pleasure, therefore, to hear the Canadian dele-  gate's statement that his country was to increase its  contribution to the United Nations programme.  His Government appreciated the sense of responsi-  bility shown by donor countries, and felt that the  Aseistant Directo. -General's statement was a challenge  to them to sustain and increase the good work they were  doing to raise the standard of living in underdeveloped  countries.
(3) Mr. SOEBROTO (Indonesia) remarked that it had  been useful to learn trom thé Assistant Director-  General that the Departinent of Technical Assistance  was aware of the great needs of underdeveloped ‘coun  tries, His country required advice from experts, it  required fellowship grants but, above all, it required  equipment. | It was clear ‘that’ equipment ‘ was of no use  without qualified and skilled personnel but, from his  country's experiénce, advice was of little use in the  absence of ecuipment. Frequently the amount of assis-  tance an exp rt could give to a country was limited by  the lack of equipment, and thé knowledge he had im-  parted could not be put into practice because the coun-  try did not have that equipment. The need for équip-  ment was perhaps less felt in the field of social science  teaching, but it was necessary in the teaching of the  natural sciences from the elementary to the university  level,  His Government welcomed the fact that, under the  Expanded Programme of Technical Assistance, coun-  tries themselves could make requests for Technical  Assistance in the form most needed, and hoped that  its request for equipment would be met.