x-0  correspond with one another direct - which bad the  advantage of speed but might be detrimental to co-  ordination - or whether it would be preferable for  them to use the Secretariat's services ss an  intermediary or an adviser,  There were budgetary difficulties about the French  delegate's proposal that a bulletin for National Com-  missions should be instituted, but his suggestion that  the Unesco "Chronicle" be used more as a means of  providing liaison between National Commissions was  very interesting, and the Secretariat would certainly  ent on it if it was recommended by the Committee,
(18) The CHAIRMAN also wished to commend the  Director-General's report, as well as the Guide for  National Commissions,  Spewnking as a delegate of Austria, he would deplore  the fact that publication of the "Chronicle" in German  had been discontinued, There were same 80,000,000  German-speaking people in Central Europe and the  task of the National Commissions in winning them  over to the ideals of Unesco was made much harder  by the fact that so little was being done in the way of  Unesco publications in German,
(16) Mr. LEE (United States of America) associated  himself with the remarks made by the representative  of the Director-General; some of the points he had  made might well be mentioned in the report. For his  part, he would have no objection on legal grounds to  considering the report in conjunction with the general  resolutions, if time permitted.  He would further endorse the view expressed by the  NINTH     COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MENBER BTATES  Director General's representative regarding the  poasibility of giving additional guidance on the  activities of National Commissions. As he had stated  earlier, resporisibility for strengthening the National  Commissions rested primarily with Member States,  but it would bu useful if certain prinoiples could be  laid down for the guidance of Member States in seeking  to strengthen their National Commissions,
(17) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) was glad  of the useful discussion which had jret taken place.  He hoped that the delegates of the United Stated of  America and Italy, together with a representative of  the Secretariat, would join him to form a small  drafting committee to prepare the Committes's report
(16) Mrs. PARONETTO-VALIER (italy) pointed cut  that she was attending the meeting simply as an  observer.
(19) Mr, MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) reminded the members of the Committee that  their draft report should be handed to the Secretariat  by 7 p.m. Mr. Chevalier or himoelf would be happy  to take part in the work of the drafting committee,
(20) The CHAIRMAN announced that the drafting  committee would meet that aftertioon. There would  be no meeting of the plenary Committee that afternoon  as had been announced, by error, in that day's  "Journal",  The meeting rose at 12.15 p.m,  MEETING
10 November 1856, at 4 p,m,  Chairman: Mr. ZEISSL (Austria)
(1) The CHAIRMAN declared the meeting open and,  there being no quorum, announced that, in accordance  with Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference, the meeting would adjourn for ten minutes.  (The meeting adjourned for ten minutes.
(2) There being still no quorum after that statutory  adjournment, the CHAIRMAN asked if all members  present would agree temporarily to waive paragraph
2 of Rule 69, as provided in paragraph 3 of that Rule.
(3) It was 80 agreed.  CONSIDERATION OF THE DRAFT REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON  REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES TO THE PROGRAMME COMMISSION  (document 9C/REP/PROV/3)
(4) The CHAIRMAN e-nounced that the draft report
738  had so far been circulated only in French, Spanish  and Russian, He suggested that the Committee might  wish to proceed with its consideration of the draft  report, on the understanding that the English text  would be circulated in the course of the meeting as  soon as it was available,
(5) There being no objection, it was so agreed,
(6) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the draft repart  before the Committee (document 8¢C/REP/PROV/3)  had been prepared on the basis of the amendments to  the original draft report suggested at the previous  meeting. He invited the Committee to examine the  revised text paragraph by paragraph.
(7) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director -  General) pointed out that further names had to be  added to the list of observers at the end of paragraph 6.   COMMITTEE ON REPOR
(8) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) added  that the heuding "Consideration of the Reports and of  the Director-General's Study" should be preceded by  the figure 1 and followed by the item of the agerda
(9) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Dircctor-  General) observed that, in the second last line af  paragraph 10 of the French text, the words  "l'ensemble" should be replaced by "le détail",
(10) Mr, TUNCEL (Turkey) preferred the expression  en détail".
(11) Mr, MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) pointed out that the word "your" should be  deleted from paragraph 12 to preserve the impersonal  style of the report, He proposed rewording line 10 of  that paragraph to read"... or whose bearing on  Unesco's aims was not always brought out in the  reports‘ in order to avoid giving the impression -  contrary to the Committee's intentions - that the  programme resolutions were being critiolzed.
(12) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) accepted  that amendment. He called for the Commitiece's  opinion on paragraph 17, drafted on the basis of a text  supplied by the United States representative which the  Committee had not yet seen,
(13) Mr, TUNCEL (Turkey) thought that the paragraph  as it stood reflscted thé Committee's feelings,
(14) Paragraph 17 was approved,
(18) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) thanked  the United States and Italian delegates for the aosist-  ance they had given him in drafting Part II of the  report. He mentioned that the words "of the rôle"  should be inserted between "definitions" and "of  National Commissions" in the first line of paragraph
38, and alco proposed that the Committee revise the  wording of paragraph 39, sub-parsgraphs (b) and (c).
(16) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) proposed deleting the  last sentence of paragraph 39 (b), which gave the  impression that the Committee was raising objections  to regional meetings of National Commissions,  whereas it was in favour of their being held.
(17) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) thought  it best either to drop the idea expressed in that  sentence and to réopen the discussion or to amend the  sentence, which was based on an English draft reading:  “In such meetings, care should be taken to preserve  their consultative character and to avold strengthening  interregional barriers".
(18) Mr, TUNCEL (Turkey) hoped that the report  would emphasize the consultative character of such  regional meetings, mentioned in the draft of the  United States delegate,
(18) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) thought that members of the Committee were  in agreement with regard to the substance of the  question and proposed the following wording: "The  vs
739  OF MEMBER STATES X-9  strictly consultative character of these mastings, and  the interdependence of the various cultural regions,  should be constantly kept in mind",
(20) Mr. LEE (United States of America) agr sed that  the earlier wording had perhaps not been entiroly  fortunate and wap quite prepared to accopt the drafting  suggested. He was, however, strongly in favour of the  retention of a sentence along those lines, as it  reflected a view which had found support in the Cora-  mittee, It was important to call attention to the  dungers of any excessive hardening into separate  cultural regions.
(21) The CHAIRMAN proposed that the drafting of a  statement embodying that consaideration should be left  to the Rapporteur, in consultation with the delegates  of the United States of America and Turkey.  {22) It wae so agreed,
(23) Mr, MAHEU (Represantative of the Director-  General) said that the last iwo lines of paragraph 39  (c) should he altered to read "and if they involve the  preparation of a plan for follow-up work in the  Member State". He further suggested nmending sub-  paragraph (d) to read: "preparation and distribution  of material for the information of the general public,  planned and produced by the Department of Mass  Communication in consultation with other Depart-  ments", In sub-peragraph (e), the words "publications  and" should be inserted between "Unesco" and  "documents".
(24) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) advocated adding the  words "into the national language" sfter "translation  and adaptation".
(25) Mr, MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) proposed deleting the first sentence of sub-  paragraph (f), which might at first sighs give the  impression that the Committers was recommending the  institution of a new periodical. Lustly, a comma  should be added alter the word "intéressés" in  paragraph 40 (a), line 2, of the French text.
(26) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) accepted  those amendments,
(27) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) hoped that varias  drafting changes would be made to the report to keep  the style impersonäl, He referred in parilcular to  paragraphs 4, 10, 11, 12, 14, 19 and 41. In paragraph
13, line 3, the adjective "excellent" could be deleted.  The rather categorical character of certain récoim-  mendations should also be toned down, as, for  instance, "it must be borne in mind" (paragraph 36),  lg clear distinction should now be drawn" (paragraph
37), "the Director-General should be authorized ..  (paragraph 38 (d)) and "the Committee recommends  that the General Conference adopt ..." (paragraph 40),
(28) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) proposed deleting the words "consider the  foregoing general remarks and comments on methods  of action" from paragraph 41. He also thought that  the Committee would wish to make it clear whether it   X-9  was asking the Director-General to bring document
9C/PRG/21 up to date or to make a study of new  problems connected with the participation of National  Commissions in the execution of the programme.
(29) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) thought  that the Committees would expect the Director-General  to continue and extend the study he had undertaken.  He regrotied the absence of the delegate of Italy, who  had dwelt on that point.
(30) Mr, TUNCEL (Turkey) proposed that paragraph
41 be redrafted by the representative of the Director-  General,
(31) Mr, LEE (United States of America) asked  whether he would be in order in reopening a question  of substance.
(32) The CHAIRMAN saw no objection.
(33) Mr, LEE (United States of America) sald that  the question had been raised, both within his own  delegation and by several other delegations, whether,  in ita discussion on National Commissions, the Com-  mittee might offer certain observations other than  those of a purely general character, and might atterapt  to classify some of the interests which it would  recommend should be represented on National  Commissions.  The United States National Commission consisted  of 100 members, 60 of whom were representatives of  non-governmental organizations which, between them,  covered almost the entire field of education, science  and culture in the broadest meaning of those terms.  Thus, a business organization, the United States  Chamber of Commerce, was represented, as it had a  very real interest in education, having fully appreci-  ated the close relationship of education to business  prosperity generally, The National Commission also  included representatives of the educational depart-  ments of the large labour organizations, of the leagues  - of women voters and of the Federal Council of  Churches,  He would therefore recommend for the consideration  of the Committee the inclusion of a reference to certain  types of organizations whose presence in National  Commissions would be desirable.
(34) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France), speaking on behalf  of his delegation a d not as Rapporteur, thought it  difficult to accept the suggestion. of the United States  delegate. The matter he had mentioned was the  direct responsibility of each Member State, and each  National Commission had its own special character,  as was clear from document 9C/PRG/21.  {35) Mr. KUPPERS (Federal Republic of Germany) ‘  attending as an observer, fully appreciated the French  delegate's point of view, but shared the United States  delegate's desire to have a wide variety of non-  governmental organizations taking part in the work of  National Commissions. All too often recourse was  had only to organizations cohcerned with science and  éducation. The National Commisaion of the Federal  Republic of Germany collaborated most profitably with  youth organizations and with women's and workers’
740     COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES  associations, thus enabling all sectors of the popu-  lation to become acquainted with Unesco's ideals.  Mr, Xuppers proposed adding to paragraph 40 (a) the  words "such as youth, women's and workers’  organizations",
(36) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) thought  that all the views of the Committee would be covered  by a general form of words.
(37) Mr. LORTIE (Canada), attending as an observer,  endorsed the Rapporteur's views, Canada had not  yet a National Commission, but its establishment  would be impeded rather than promoted by a list such  as the one suggested,
(38) Mr, AZIMOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  thought it unnecessary to draw up any such list,
(39) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) felt that, even if it did  not draw up any list of organizations, the Committee  could submit cominents on the results of the inquiry  conducted by the Director-General (document
9C/PRG/21) and draw the attention of National Com-  missions to the valuable information {t contained.  They might use it as a guide in amending their  statutes so as to broaden their field of action.
(40) Mr. HOPE (United States of America) wished,  as Labour Adviser to the United States delegation,  further to emphasize the view expressed by Mr. Lee.  The United States National Commission had, since its  inception, had the participation of educational and  cultural officers from the large labour organizations,  and those organizations had also been given the oppor-  tunity of attending international conferences held  under the auspices of Unesco. ‘In fact, he found it  hard to envisage a National Commission's functioning  effectively without such contact with the immense  section of the population constituted by the working  people. As the United States of America had such  close ties with Canada, he hoped ‘that eventually Canada  might be won round to that point of view,  He was fully aware of the fact that any such recom-  mendation by the Committee could be no more than a  suggestion as, clearly, the matter was entirely one for  national governments to decide for, themselves,  However, fie could see no disadvantage in the Com-  mittee's calling attention to the desirability of bring-  ing groups of workers and youth organizations more  closely into contact with the work of Unésco and with  intellectuals in their own country. It was indeed  unfortunate that that had né; already been done in  many countries where free trade unions existed. His  proposal might be met by the inclusion of a single  sentence, or even of a few words, indicating the scope  of organizations which could usefully be included. He  would not press the point but felt it would be regret-  table to overlook an opportunity of stirring the  imagination of Member States.  ! :
(41) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) had  been most interested in the remarks of the United  States delegate, He mentioned that the French  National Commission had always included representa-  tives of trade unions in {ts membership, He drew the  Committee's attention to Article VII, paragraph 1, of   COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OP MEMBER STATES x-0  the Constitution of Unesco and proposed that the United  States delegate submit to the Committee à text in line  with that article. '
(42) Mr, LORTIE (Canada) sald that, after having  heard the explanations given by the United States  delegate, he would agree to the inclusion of a para-  graph in the report referring to the desirability of  including certain types of non-governmental organiza-  tions in the composition of the National Commissions,  He was, however, opposed to a lengthy enumeration of  such bodies.
(43) Mr, TUNCEL (Turkey) proposed the following:  “The Committee feels that, as regards the member-  ship of National Commissions, the Unesco Secretariat  could, in the light of the replies to the questionnaire  on the rôle and operation of National Commissions,  recommend to Member States wide representation of  organizations concerned with education, science and  culture",  {44) ‘Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) inquired  whether the delegate of Turkey wished to have that  sentence included in paragraph 40 or whether it should  form a separate paragraph.
(45) Mr, TUNCEL (Turkey) thought it would be appro-  priate to insert it at the end of the section dealing with  the study of reporte of Member States, Its aim was to  draw the attention of National Commissions to the  benefit they could derive from Unesco's document and  to serve as a basis for a recommendation to all  Member States and National Commissions with the  object of extending the latter's field of action,
(46) Mrs. KAMINSKA (Poland), attending as an  observer, suggested clarifying the idea expressed in  the text proposed by the Turkish delegate by adding to  the end of paragraph 40 (a) the following sentence:  "Some National Commissions have, for instance,  included in their membership representatives of trade  union organizations, ete".
(47) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) pointed out that it was  important to recommend fair rather than wide rep-  resentation of non-governmental organizations.
(48) The Committee Féquésted the representative of  the Director-General to prepare a draft embodying  the suggestions just made with regard to the member-  ship of National Commissions.
(49) Mr, HOPE (United States of America) proposed  the following draft: "This inclusion might involve  participation by organizations representing broad  groups of citizens; such as those of persons engaged  in agriculture, wage employment, the professions,  youth groups, and other rion-governmental organiza-  tions which can aid constructively in advancing the  purpose of Unesco".
(50) Mr. SHARMA (India), attending as an observer,  had listened with great interest to the remarks made  on the structure of the Nationsl Commissions in the  various countries. He would submit that, in matters  such as organization and structure, any specific
741     listing of bodies which should be included would not  be favourable to the proper functioning of Unesco.  Indeed, flexibility rather than rigidity should be .  sought, and each country should plan the framework  for its National Commission which corresponded best  to the country's particular needs and resources. He  considered the three existing broad divisions of  Unesco's activities to be comprehensive, and it was  tor the National Commissions themselves to decide  what bodies they saw fit to include in those categories.  The numbers of non-governmental organisations  varied greatly as between Member States; accordingly,  it would be preferable to leave each country with the -  initiative to plan the structure of its National Com-  mission under the classifications of education, science  and culture.
(51) The CHAIRMAN wondered whether, in*tne circum-  stances, the paragraph might not remain as it stood,  as it was sufficiently broadly phrased to allow for  interpretation.
(62) Mr. HOPE (United States of America) agreed  that the drafting as it stood provided for unlimited  alternatives. However, in reality, the imagination of  the National Commissions had not so far been stirred  to provide for the participation of large labour groups.  In Asla, Japan was the only country to have trade union  representation on its National Commission, whereas  India also, for instance had active trade unions which  should be brought more closely into touch with  Unesco's work, The National Commissions should  not consist solely of intellectuals but should attempt  to draw in such mass groups. He would therefore  suggest that his proposal might have an invigorating  influence on National Commissions and might do much  to enlarge the scope of Unesco support.
(53) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) then proposed the following draft for the  section of the report entitled "Conclusion":  "40, The Committee recoramends to the General  Conference the measures proposed in document 9C/6,  Chapter 7, resolution 7.12, concerning Unesco's  assistance in the development of the National  Commissions. :
41. The Committee recommends to the General  Conference:  {a) the measures suggested in the ‘Guide for  National Commissions’ (Section 1.2) regarding the  representative character of the National  Commissions;  (b) the provision of increased resources for the  secretariats of the National Commissions, which must  be supplied with funds to enable the National Com-  missions to discharge their duties. In this connexion,  the Committee wishes to quote the following passage  trom document 9C/PRG/21:  'A Commission may be perfectly representative,  but, in the absence of a secretariat capable of organi-  zing its meetings and carrying out its décisions, the  best Commission in the world will never come to life,  From the standpoint of efficiency, the National  Commission is worth what its secretariat is worth.’
42. The Committee proposes that the Director-  General be invited to follow up the study of the  structure and methods cf work of National   X-10  Commissions, which he made in . 1985-19588, by:
(1) submitting to the tenth session of the Genersl  Conference a new study consisting of:  (a) a report, accompanied by specific examples,  on those among the methods and means of action of  the National Commissions which have proved most  effective in ensuring and strengthening the partici-  pation of Member States in the implementation of the  programme; .  (b) en asssssment of the results achieved by the  various methods emplayed by the Organisation to  help Member States in developing their National  Commisdions;
(4) making, in the light of this report, the neces-  sary arrangements for:  (a) the preparation of a 1958 revised edition of the  Guide for National Commissions’;  (b) the inclusion in the proposed programme for    COMMITTER ON REPORTE OP MEMBER STATES
1959-1060 of any proposals for intensifying and  improving the participation of National Commissions  in the implementation of the programme dnd the  co-operation of the Secretariat with the National  Commissions."
(54) There being no objection, the drafts proposed as  new paragraphs 40, 41 and 42 were adopted.
(55) The draft report as a whole was adopted, as  amended,
(56) The CHAIRMAN expressed his appreciation to  the Rapporteur, to the representative of the Director-  General, and to the Committee fur their co-operation.  The meeting rose at 6.10 p.m,  TENTH MEETING
12 November 1966, at 4 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. ZEISSL (Austria)
(1) The CHAIRMAN declared the meeting open and,  there being no quorum, announced that, in accordance  with Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference, the meeting would adjourn for ten minutes.  (The meeting adjourned for ten minutes.)
(2) There being still no quorum after that statutory  adjournment, the CHAIRMAN asked if all members  present would agree temporarily to waive paragraph
2 of Rule 69, as provided in paragraph 3 of that Rule.
(3) It was so agreed.  ITEM 17.3 OF THE AGENDA: PERIDDIC REPORTS ON HUMAN  RIGHTS (Resolution 624 B (XXII) of the Economic and Social  Council) (document 9C/11)
(4) The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Committee  proceed to consider the question of periodic reports  on human rights (document 9C/11) and invited the  representative of the Director-General to introduce  the subject.
(5) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) recalled the terms of resolution 624 B (XXII  of the Economic and Social Council, only Part I of  which concerned the Committee. In paragraph 3 of  that part, the Council invited the Specialized Agencies,  "in respect of rights coming within their purview, to  transmit to the Secretary-General, every three years,  a report on a topical basis, summarizing the informa-
742  tion which they have received from their Member  States during the preceding three years and to co-  operate in the full realization of the alm set forth in  this resolution, Mr, Maheu thought the Committee  would have to consider three points: (1) the content  of the reports, (2) their timing, (3) the plan for the  reports of Member States... |  As to content, the reports should deal with the  rights coming within the purview of Unesco - the right  to information (Article 19), the right to education  (Article 26), the right to participate in the cultural  life of the gommunity, and to share the benefits of  scientific advancement and copyright protection  (Article 27, paragraphs ! end 2).. The right to  information was not, of course, the concern of Unesco  alone. . Lo -  The problem of timing was not an urgent one, but  should be mentioned. It resulted from the fact that  the United Nations asked its Member States to submit  a report every three years, whereas Unesco received  its reports every two years. The Commission on  Human Rights would begin by considering, in 1958,  reports covering the years 1954, 1855 and 1856, which  would.have been sent in by Member States in 1957.  The problem would thus not arise until 1861, and the  General Conference, at its next session in 1958, would  be better placed to take decisions on the subject in  the light of the preliminary experience gained.  The problem of ‘he plan for the reports of Member  States would arise if they were asked in future to  furnish information regarding the implementation of  human rights as part of their ordinary reports to the