30 November 1986, at 6.30 p,m,  Chairman: Mrs, MYRDAL (Sweden)  ITEM 9.3.1 OF THE AGENDA : REPORT ON TUE EXPÉDIENCE OF  SETTING UP AN INTERNATIONAL CENTRE FOR THE TRAINING  OF INTERNATIONAL ( CIVIL SERVANTS (document dè/PRa/3)
(1) ‘Thé’ CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on thé  social sciences item contained ir document i
8C/PRG/3;, Fost out that it resulted from  resolutions 3.34 and IV. 1.3. 341 adopted at  Montevi  (a) Mr a o LACHARRIERE is ii os Social ©  Selencés ted that ‘docümé 3 explained  ow the LE ectar-Génerai pins artiéd out the reso  hatin adopted by the ‘Gederal Conterends at Hs ”  previous session; ‘in tht Fodautat, "he hid been        authorised 4 t he was lçairable to set  sp an int re ec gore basic  training tor interna al  Ass 0  gore LafH à que ia Eloy pce     had thought it better, à  onlÿ ce .cate wih or Internati  civil servicé posts & and bob to try to defirie | the  concept of a "common training", : There were tro.  possible golutions:- either to provide | for all candi-  dates à basic training besring on the administration  of international - anizations, the ethical à derde  to be ocbgerved by rise tional ciyil servants, and”  knowledge of languages; or ‘slag to. provi a niore .  specialised training for various categories of civil  servants (budget and finance specialists, fox. instance),  Mr, de’ Lacharridre, ‘believed that the resolution  proposed’ on page 9 of dovument '9C/PRG/3 would  enable progress to be made in -and defining  the problem; and he pointed out that the budgetary  implications of the project were modest: with the  relatively small sum of $2,000, it would be possible  to secure the advice of a consultant and, if necessary,  . to meet the travel costs of members of the Secrotariat  “ sent on mission to the United Nations or the  Specialized Agencies.
(3) Mr. RAADI (tran)- reminded the Commission that  the original draft resolution on the subject under  discussion had been submitted by the delegation of  iran at the previous session of the General  Conference. The representative of the Department.  of Social Sciences had stated that the reaction of  some ‘of the organizations consulted had been  nejative, although théy récognized that the problem  was important, but Mr. Randi thought that the  wording of the questionnaire, based on the  Iranian resolution as amended by the General
498  aps pe: ‘wub clear.  pr oti to’ the’ fact pagal 5  problem pre existed Le all the, organizations  of the United Nations fai § shel 5 Sotablint me,  consisted in reconciling the’ ixiteria of rofessiobal *  competence for candidates j with t é need to ensure Ly  fair géographical representation ‘of the värious  Member States ‘couitrie bossa excellent  ove handicapped | by  working languages’  étiohal orgaitisay  in arte dde and Th           or sdiminiatrative ‘practice of in  os, and of ‘sith of ganizations’  nals, pen pris               had not fares es Tu  resolution of" “the “epsonée) of  had, in” ‘ome  propoaing to train specialists fable. The reply of the  Laternatianal C ourt ot Justice rs, ah example of such  misunder .. Mr, Raédi pointed out, however,  ‘bodies consulted Had acknowledged the  ; © problem’ raised,
0 considered that the Diréctôr-Gereral  had submitted ar excellent and objéctive report,  Mr. Rasdi hoped that the’ ‘proposals; cottained ther ei  would be’ made’ a y ‘clearer and more ‘general, ‘it  was desirable, in particular, to “consider the training,  not only of adinisiatratire staff, but also of officials  in thé Director category. Mr, Raadi accordingly  proposed that the last paragraph but ore of thé;  Director Generpl's draft resolution bé amended to :  read: '  Met st vo in, so aperatioh w with the, ‘United Nations -  ane Agencies’ cosiceried, how far it 16  pow to provide, in ways to be deterinined subse-  quently: (1) an adequate general iraining for candidates  for the international civil service; (ii) a specialised  administrative training for candidates for certain  categories of international posts".
(4) Mr. FIKRY (Egypt proposed an amendment to  the draft resolution, consisting in the substitution of  the words "geographical representation" for "geo-  graphical distribution".
(5) Mr. FERNANDEZ de 1a MORA (Spats) stated that  his delegation had studied the report'in document
8C/PRG/3, desling with à subject to which the General  Conference in Moutevideo had attached great import-  ance, and which was beconiing of incressing interest.  The number of international civil servants had been  growing over.the past few years and probably x  to about 10,000 at the present time. However, the   PROGRAMME     report contained, no data on or international
7 opte ed 1 ses obliga he Shey  universities on sat a Lo Hint cinission,  the Programme Commissior means of telling  whether, such sc hools + lai bo og what  they were ike. Schools of holes va fia exist  at Bruges and papi bd Ea  pepe “ rhs tution oe  sponpired by the rons Amat: can ©
1, ae therefore proposed an ‘Amendment tothe  resolution which would confirm the authorization giyen  to the ‘Director-Gensral by the General Conference at  ita 6 session in Montevideo: où pige. 9 of docu-  sat 90 PRG/3, after, the words "Authorizes the  ¢-General', the following | paragraph would be  osridd in the draft resolution: .,  “Fo study, the solutions, whéther national. or  international, governmental or non-governmental,  now being applied { in vayious parts, of the world to the  problem 9 of how to ‘train istorational 'etvit servants’,  Many cin tunis €  part in the United Nations SEE     of working methods.  to represent their c jrles | and pranie ‘prot ma  and interests, the United Nations and ifs a Shcids ’  should establish fair geographical distribution, by  means of research programmes designed to 'soive the  problem. of training such intellectuals for their  collaboration with the United Nations. Mr. Anas  stated, in conclusion, that he agreed with the delegate  of Iran and supported his proposal. ;  on. Mer MAROUN Lebanon] was sorry dat the. I.  repprt - although a very good one - left delegates | in  sonie doubt as to the decisions to be taken. - The  Lebanese delegation thought it essential that the :  Secrétariat should make a more thorough study of the  question and it was therefore in favour of the Director-  General's draft resolution, as araended, by 1 the delegate  of Spain, -  (a) Mr, BARON ‘cÂstRo iB Salvador), feoniied that  previous speakers had. drawn attention | to. the increasing  siiq snd importance of the international’ civil. service.  The repregentativé of Spain had stated that there was  à achool for international civil servauts in Madrid,  attached to the Spanish- Portuguese-Americaÿ Institute  of International Law, to which Spain belonged; the |  school was directed by Professor Ferreira de Melo  and wis supported by many Latin Arderiçan countries.  The delegation of El Saivador seconded the amend:  ments submitted by Iran and Spain, together + with the  drafting change proposed id Egypt...
(9) Me. de LACHARRIERE popartiiant a Social |  Sciences) painted out that the sum of $2,006 which he  had mentioned was not included in the budget ;  proposed by the Department. . …  ‘Replying to the delegates of Egypt and Spain, he.  explained that the expression "geographical
490  COMMISSION     IV-32  distribution! was covermoniy ised in the'rules =  over ons, While ts Sécretaiiet had  a jection 5 1 tai "  roprosenéätion", it should be borne 15 ied hat ! 1  might be interpreted as meaning that inembers ‘of the  Secretariat’ Téprosented | thes countride, which was  not the ‘ca ;  - In'énswer EL) ‘aglogats) of Spa i} M  Lacharriére ‘ that, in eiginal Lrunia  resolution, Presented’ at the previous session of the  oùfeience, the Director General had bein’ authorised  "to study" the problam, whprees in the text finally  adopted, hé was aithorised to assemble,’ clarify and  analyse such information on this subjéct as is brought  to ihe notice of the Secretariat in she course of its  duties". ~~ '  Moreover, the Sécrétariét had Aid  hioaghy re  suitable to include the dita which ft had ror FA on’  the ER schools mentioned by the delegate of  in the calied tor By the Geñéral Cénference.  With in the rape ë ardérdmeit F proposed by tie  delegate of Spain, Mr. dé Lachärrière did not think  that the. Latter would object to the substitution of the  words "éindidatos à là funcjén’ peblièa intorhiéional"  for "funcionarics Anternaéionales" The amendment  could either be lucluded in thé draft résolution or be  considered as à work plan: -…. “  Lastly, Mr. de Lacharrière pointed out & the  Lebanese delegate that his wish that a more Le ouh  study of the question should be made would bè mét it  the Director-General! s draft resolution were adopted.  bidet =
(10) Mr.  WEEDEN ‘(Austraiia) thought ‘that; if the  project had been accepted by the Director-General,  some budgetary provision should: appear in thé document.
(11) Mg. CHASE (Byrean of ‘Programme’ and’ Budget)  stated that the provision was $3 1000; it hed been  accidentally omitted trom Corrigendum’ À, _
(12) The CHAIRMAN ‘aicéd heir Egypt stil  maintained the x oponel to substitute the word  repregentition’ for © distribution"; n ‘she’ also wished  to imow rr ‘the. délogaté of Irap'insisted on  consultation: with the. United a a ‘instead ot     rer of traindes’ ‘and th Ben of training thay  would receive), Since the’ £a the |  was available oniy in Spanish; its discussion would  have to be deferred until a translation had prs  prepared,
(13) Mr. RÂADI (Iran) noted that the delegate, a ;  Spain agreed with the Iranian ‘delegation’ 3 amendment,  save in respéét of national | or international solutions,  He therefore wondered | if the delegate ol Spain. would  consent to incorporate the paragraph relating to that  aspect of the problem in the iranian smendment,  in order to present the Commission with a ‘siâgle  amendment. . ; |
(14) The above propos was accepted by the «dire  of Spain. ; . soi.
(15) Mr. de LACHARR ERE : opertinit of Socal  Sciences) said that the Secrétariat had no objection to   IV-32  the amendments proposed, Mr, Raadi's suggestion  might be worded as follows: .,  "vw. Authorizes the Director-General to study, ‘fa  co-operation | with the United Nations and the Special-  ised Agencies concerned, how far it is desirable to  provide, in ways to be determined subsequently;  (i) an adequate general training for candidates for the  international civil service; (ii) a specialized admini-  stratiye training for candidates for certain categories  of international posts; and to study the solutions,  whether national or international, governmental or  non-governmental, which have been applied in various  parts of the world to the problem of how to train  candidates for international civil service posts."
(16) The CHAIRMAN thought that, if the Director-  General accepted the Iranian and Spanish amendments,  they could be combined into one.
(17) The substitution of the word "representation" for  “distribution” was rejected by the Commission by 16  votes to 6 with 6 abstentions.
(18) The resolution contained in document 9C/PRG/3,  combining the Iranian and Spanish amendments  accepted by the Director-General, and including its  budgetary implication of $2,000, was approved, with
5 abstentions,  ITEM 9.4 OF THE AGENDA : CULTURAL ACTIVITIES (continued)  (documents 9C/5 and Addenda and Cotrigends)  Project 4, 712: History of the Scientific and Cultural  Development of Mankind (paragraphs 189 to 196 and  documents 9C/PRG/9 and 29)
(19) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on resolution
4.71 (paragraph 180 of document 9C/5) and on the  report of Working Party No. 4 on project À. 712:  History of the Scientific and Cultural Development of  Mankind (document 8C/PRG/29).
(20), Mr, ERDMANN (Federal Republic of Gefmany)  (Rapporteur of Working Party] No. 4) stated that the  Working Party had heid 4 méetingé/” its report hud  not yet been approved by all its’ members. The items  discussed had beea: (1) the procedure to be followed  in the final revision of the ‘manuscripts; (2) the one-  volume and two-volume abridged versions of the  history; (3) the time- table’ of the’ international Com-  mission; (4) the publication of the "Journal" of its  work; (5) the budget of the ‘undertaking.  Mr. Erdmann drew attention to page 6 of the report,  paragraph 23 (¢). The discussion. of that point had  been deep arid long, sometimes céntroverélal; but the  Working Party was able to submit coherent recom-  mendations for approval- In connexion with (1), the  critical ‘question was te Sm ‘the revision proce-  dure, but the Work: ‘decided to recommend  that the manuscripts’ should, 'neventhèlens, be  submitted for study and comments to the National  Commissions. For the selection of the scholars to  be consulted, the Working Party had recommended  that the Bureau of the International Commission  should algo be consulted, In connexion with (2) -  paragraph 26, page 7 - it had accepted the principle  of the sbridged editions but the question could not be
300     PROGRAMME COMMISSION  exhaustively discussed until the final volume of the  history was ready fo publication, With regard fo
(3) - page 8, | 27- “the Working Party recom-  mended hat the Eater e anorsatiocal Commission should end  its work on the day when the manuscripts of the six’  volumes were consigned to the publishers, and hand’  over ite task to some other smaller and less expensive  body. In relation to (4) - paragraph 31 on'page 9 of  the report - the Working Party rééommended that the  publication of the "Journal" should be entrusted to an  international historical body after negotiations in -
1957-1958, With respect to the budget - Chapter V of  the report, on page 9 - the Working Partyhad drawn -  the logical conclusion of its decision on procedure,  and recommended the reductidn of the budget figure  menticued in document 6C/ PRG/ 9 Corrigendum from  $157,000 to $144,600, because of the saving of  $10,000 on the reproduction of the, manuscript of the  volumes and of the decision not to replace the recently  deceased editor - an economy of $2,400.
(21) Mr. FRANCOIS (Fraricé) thought that the report  just presented by Mr, Erdmann was admirably clear  and impartial, Indeed, his delegation felt that the  Rapporteur had perhaps {ried to be a little too  impartial and [hoped that it would be stated in para-  graph 14, on page 4, that the ! ‘pessimistic speakers"  included the representative of France, because the -  French delegation, af every ssssion of the General  Conference, had always drawn attention to the  alarming breadth of the project. Mr. François  wished to pay tribute to the President of the Inter-  national Commission for a History of the Scientific  and Cultural Development of Mankind for his consum-  mate skill in directing a préject which was liable to  prove a bad financial, and indeed a bad intellectual,  proposition in a few years’ time.  With regard to the motion contained in paragraph
23 (c), Mr. Frangois éxplained that the reason why  France considered it highly desirable for the manus-  crips se ‘be submitted to National Commissiuns was  that tue Intérnational ‘Commission’ 8 corresponding  members, whose names were listed on pages 10 to 13  of document 9C/PRG/ 9, had been chosen without  coasulting the National Commisaions and might, in  some inétances, not include hiftorians considered by  the latter to be the best qualified. The method of  consultation through National Commissions was not  Habie to lengthen an already extremely complicated  procedure unduly, since the time-limit for such  consultation had been fixed at three months.  Mr. François drew delegates’ attention to the fact  that the budget proposed by the Working Party,  although smaller than that requested by the Inter-  ‘national Commission, exceeded the figure proposed  by the Director-General.  Lastly, the French delegation wished to ask the  following questions:
(1) Was not the sum of $8,000 for the preparation  of maps and illustrations excessive?
(2) In section B on page 7 of décument 9C/PRG/9,  what were the details of the figures for "Editor's  fees" and "Expenses of Editor and assistants", which  totalled $20,800 for the two years?
(3) In the same paragraph, what was the meaning  of the heading "Comments and criticism", with an  allotment of $10,050?   PROGRAMME COMMISSION
(23) ‘Mr, VITO (Italy) congratulated the Rapporteur  où his excellent report, - He explained that the order  of the ‘points (2) and (3) Mr, Erdmaan had mentioned  had been reversed by the Working Party, which had  come to the conclusion that the problems involved in  the preparation of the abridged editicns should come  before the question of the duration of the International  Commission, Mr; Vito pointed out that three of the  Working Party's decisions, out of a total of five, had  ‘been taken at the initiative of its French member,  {23) Mr. BARON CASTRO (El Salvador) referred to  paragraph 25 (c) of document 9C/PRG/29, containing  x motion proposed by the delegate of France, which  embodied the substance of a joint proposal by the  delegates of Mexico and El Salvador. The delegate  J France had given the reasons for his proposal and  Mr, Berm Castro wished to explain what had  prompted his own, He pointed out that France had  two members serving on the International Commis-  sion and many co-author-editors and professors  sesociated with the editing. If the delegate of France  was pessimistic, - when it might be said that the  French were going to produce the history practically  single-handed, what would the small countries think  who were not represented at all on the editorial staff  of the history? His proposal that the manuscripts of  the six volumes shoul! be submitted to the National  Commissions of Member States had been made with  the idea of ensuring that the small countries would  have an opportunity to study the texts and make  comments. Mr. Baron Castro paid tribute to the  French members of the International Commission,  but did not think it justified for the delegate of France,  after giving his approval during the Programme  Commission's discussions, to make such very  pessimistic remarks.
(24) Mr. FALARDEAU (Canada) congratulated the  Rapporteur on having so accurately expressed the  Working Party’ sviews and wishes,” The Canadian  delegation thought that the History of the Scientific  and Cultural Development of Mankind, once comp-  leted, would be ‘of very great interest, and wished to  pay tribute to the International Commission's  distinguished President.  The purpose of the stand taken by the Canadian  delegation in the Working Party had been to guarantee  that the history would be of a high standard and  quickly brought out. That was why it had agreed that  the procedure for consultation should be modified,  However, as that change was the basic reason for the  Working Party !srequest for a budgec larger than that  proposed by the Director-General, the Canadian  delegation seconded the figure originally proposed.
(25) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  wished to join with all those who had congratulated  the Rapporteur and members of the Working Party.  He recalled that the Director-General, in drawing  up the estimates for the chapter concerned, had  taken account of the wish expressed on several  occasions by the General Conference that the total  budget figure originally proposed for the execution of  the project - i.e. $400,000 - should not be exceeded,  However, Mr, Thomas noted that the Working Party  had done remarkably good work in defining the  soi     IV-32  various problems and that it was the first time that  an orgén of the General Conference had studied the  project with so much'care, + = .  The conclusions reached by the Working Party after  thorough study bad led it to propose a budget of  $144,600; It ras row the responsibility of the Pro-  gramme Commission to take a decision on the  Working Party's recommendations.  Mr. Thomas wished, however, to draw. attention to  the possible consaquences of the procedure of con-  sulting National Commissions. "The General Confer-  ence had decided that the International Commission  should be solely responsible for the publication of the  work; but would not the fact of consulting National  Commissions be contrary to that principle, and might  it not give the impression that the history was the  work of Unesco itself?  Mr. Thomas recalled that the International Com-  mission, its Bureau and its President had worked  with a devotion worthy of all praise and that Unesco  should be particularly grateful to them because the  task with which they had been entrusted was  extremely difficult.
(26) Referring to paragraph 31 (a), Mr; ZAVALA  (Mexico) observed that the Working Party's statement  was correct, but that there was no mention of the fact  that the original motion had led to a discussion on the  future of the "Journal of World History", culminating  in a vote of 10 in favour and 7 against. It was stated  that the publication of the "Journal" would be entrus-  ted to an international historical body, but, in his  opinion, it was wrong to speak of the transfer of  responsibility for its publication without mowing the  results of the work already accomplished. He there-  fore proposed the deletion of the last sub-paragraph  of paragraph 31 (a). The General Conference of  Unesco, at its next session at the end of 1958, would  have before it a report on the cutcome of the negoti-  ations and the funds which might be required in the  future. ’
(27) Mr. YERUSALIMSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) expressed his delegation's satisfaction  with the report of the Working Party, which gave an  accurate and impartial account of its discussions and  activities. . La 1m  He thought it was essential to approach the problem  realistically, and that some of the Working Party's  decisions in fact evidenced an attempt to do so. With  regard to the procedure for revision of the manu-  scripts, there were, he thought, two basic considera-  tions: firstly, the final edition, in six volumes, ~~  pour  The introduction of such a regulation might slow   IV-32  - down the cumbersome procedure still further, and  Mr, Yerusalimsky thought it essential to adopt some  method whereby the entire text of the six-volume  edition would be distributed through the National  Commissions, :  So far as the "Journal of World History" wus  concerned, the Sovist delegation was in favour of  continuing to publish it: it might prove very useful  even after the publication of the six-volume edition,  as it contained an account of the discussions on the  various scientific problems; moreover it would sérve  to promote co-operation between scholars of various  countries. a
(28) Mr; LUND (Sweden) stressed that, i document
9C/PRG/29 was sént to Member States the matter  would be aired again and useful comments would be  received, He agreed with the Director-General, and  suggested dropping the proposal to send the manu-  scripts to thé National Commissions.’ He had been  authorized to say that the "Journal" was extremely  valuablé and should be published; he accordingly  supported the view expressed by the delegate of the  Soviet Union,
(29) Mr. MARQUIS {United States of America).  submitted for very serious consideration the point that  history was always the work of scholars and not a  compilation of national viewpoints. A mandatory  circulation of the manuscripts to National Commis-  sions would not be in harmony with the spirit of the  undertaking, ar i he therefore supported the Swedish  proposal, !
(30) The cu. IRMAN summarized the proposals  before the C{mmiiglon: deletion of paragraph 23 (c),  moved by Sweden and the United States of America;  omission of "in agreement with the Bureau of the  International Commission" from paragraph 23 (d),  proposed by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics;  and deletion of the last sub-paragraph of paragraph
31 (a), requested by the delegate of Mexico.
(31) Mr. YERUSALIMSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics), replying tô the Chairman , said that the -  proposed aïnéndment to paragraph:23 (d) would no  doubt simplily procedure; but the Soviet delegation  accepted the Working Party'sdecision on the subject.  With regard to thé contents of paragraph 23 (c), the  Soviet delegation agreed with what had been said -  that it was essential tô work through the National  Commissions.
(32) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) polntéd out that  National Commissions were the best qualified bodies  to judge which historians the manuscripts should be  submitted té for study. It was not proposed that the  National Commissions should do more than transmit  the nianuscripts to the scholars concérned.
(33) Beford the vols was takes, Mr, BARON CASTRO  (E1 Salvador) wished to remind the Programme  Coinmission that the motion had been approved by the  International Commission. Hé thereforé recommended  that the President of that Commission be consulted.
(34) As the Commission was about to voté on
502     PROGRAMME COMMISSION  paragraph 23 (c); My, FERNANDEZ de la MORA :  (Spain) wished to point out that various delegates had  spoken against it and that no one had defended the -  proposal to aubmit the manuscripts to National  Commissions for study,
(35) Mr.: FIKRY (Egypt did not think thaï there \ were  any grounds for the miegivinga expressed by the ” ",  Assistant Director-General on ‘the aubjact of the ,  procedure for consulting National Commissions, That  procedure would enable scholars in various parts of  the world to study the manuscripts, which could be -  presented to the public, with criticisms and comments,  lending added valué to the work. Such scholars would  not be influenced by the National Commissions; so  that the work could not be said to be a Unesco pro-  duction. That procedure had already been adopted in  Egypt and had resulted in the collection of observations  and comments by various scholars and specialists,
(36) Mr, ESTABLE (Uruguay) did not intend to speak  either for or against the point under discussion, but  wished to propose another solution, namely, that  National Commissions should be consulted only on  questions concerning their own countrisa.
(3m) Mr. PETROV (Bulgaria) seconded the proposal  in paragraph 23 (c) of the Working Party! 8 report  because it would make it possible to secure the co-  operation of the most competent historians in every  country, who possessed documents which were some-  times more or leas unknown in other countries.  Moreover, as the consultation was not to take more  than three months, the final publication of the work  would not be unduly delayed.
(38) Mr. BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia) agreed with  the views expressed by the Working Party with regard  to paragraph 23 (c); ‘it would ensure the success of  the work'if the manuscripts were sent to National  Commissions, especially as they could then also be  studied by groups of specialists in each country.  Moreover, as there was to be not a single edition ‘of  the history, but several, it was important that the part  concerning each country should be absolutely accurate.
(39) “Mr. ESTABLE (Uruguay) pressed the amendment  which he had proposed earlier, as he thought that,  instead of deleting the whole of paragraph 23 (c),  National Commissions might be sent such parts of the  work as related to their countries. Thus, each country  would revise only the chapter concerning it.
(40) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Uruguayan  motion had been seconded by the delegate of Poland.
(41) Speaking as President of the iibhenationsd Cot  Commission for à History of the Scientific and Cultural  Development of Mankind, Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRO  (Brazil) explained that the Commission had accepted  the idea of cerrying out consultations through National  Commissions às a compromise solution, enabling à  great many particularly competent historians and  scholars to be consulted indirectly. Mr. Carneiro  had the impression that disputes between national  historians lay behind the remarks of the delegate of  France, but the arguments advanced by certain   PROGRAMME COMMIBSION  countries which had been unable to take part in the  preparation of the work were certainly well founded.
(43) Mr, WEEDEN (Australis) raised à point of  order: if the Swedish amendment were carried, the  Uruguayan one would not have to be voted on,
(43) The motion to delete paragraph 23 (c) - proposed  by Sweden and secor:ded by the United States of  America - was rejected by 26 votes to 10, with 5  abstentions, ‘ ;
(44) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) reminded  the delegate of Uruguay. that the work would not be  sot out in à series of chapters; each dealing with the  national history of a given country; . it would provide  a general picture of the scientific and cultural  development of mankind, without any clear cut  divisions.
(45) Mr, ESTABLE (Uruguay) did not intend to with-  draw his amendment, because some chapters of the  history would deal specially with certain countries,  and it would therefore be desirable for national  historians to be given an opportunity to express their  informed views,
(46) The amendment proposed by the delegate of  Uruguay - to refer the manuscripts to National  Commissions only on the questions which concerned  their countries - was rejected by 29 votes to 7, with
2 abstentions.
(47) The amendment proposed by the delegate of  Mexico - deletion of the last sub-paragraph of  paragraph 31 (a), page 0 - was rejected by & clear  majority.
(48) The report of Working Party No. 4 - including  its budgetary implication: an increase of $45,600 in  the budget for the history - was approved unanimously,  with 7 abstentions.
(49) Replying to Mr. Carneiro, Mr. FRANCOIS  (France) observed that it was proposed to ask National  Commissions to act as intermediaries precisely in  order to avoid quarrels between historians.
(50) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote resolution 4.71  {paragraph 180) which governed the whole project.
(51) The resolution was adopted unanimously, with
2 abstentions.  Draft resolution 6C/DR/28
(52) The CHAIRMAN opened the debate on draft  resolution 9C/DR/28 - Commemoration of the 300th  amiversary of the publication of the "Opera Didactica  Omnia", by John Amos Comenius - proposed by  Czechoslovakia.  {83} Mr. PAZUR (Czechoslovakia) stated that his |  delegation attached great importance to Unesco's  taking the initiative of publishing a selection of John  Amos Comenius' works, and being represented at the  commemoration in Prague and Amsterdam of the 300th
503  IV-32  anniversary of the publication of the "Opera Didactica  Omnia. . The budget required would be approximately  $6,420, - EY Mr, Paxur recailed that Comenius was the founder  of the science of education and that, in all the |  countries to which his exile had led him, he had  contributed to the reform of the educational system,  and particularly to that of early childhood education,  adult education and the teaching of foreign languages,  His efforts to develop a practical and scientific form  of education, inspired by j'umaniem, made him one of  the outstanding figures in vhe history of mankind,  ‘ Le SE Eure Lie
(54) Mr. KIRPAL (Acting Director, Départment of  Culturel Activities) understood that the writings of . |  Comenius would be published in English and in French,  with an introduction by Unesco. The Czechoslovak  National Commission would collaborate by supplying  the translations, and Unesco by furnishing the services  of the editor and organizing the publication of 2,000  copies in each language at à cost of $4,000 - i.e.  less than the Organization's expenditure on the  centenary of Mickiewicz,
(65) Mr. LYNKOV (Hyelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic) pointed out that, among the great men of  Czechoslovakia who had enriched the common  heritage of mankind, Comenius held a special place,  since he had devoted his life to the cause of education  for the Czech people, and the cause of national culture  and independence. His ideas had had a profound  influence on several generations of teachers, Asa  humanist and a democrat, he had advocated universal,  compulsory education and wished schools to be  forcing grounds of humanism; it could truly be said  that his work had been a source of inspiration to  teachers, humanists and democrats throughout the  world for three hundred years. The Byelorussian  delegation therefore warmly supported the  Czechoslovak resolution,
(56) As a professor of education and one who had  translated Comenius' works, Mr. CALO (Italy)  seconded the Czechoslovak draft resolution, In the  course of a life fraught with suffering and trouble,  Comenius had always preseryed his faith in human  destiny and the brothérhood of nations and had pursued  an ideal of peace uncommon in his time.” He had  advocated education for all, activity schools and the  idea of the States' duties towards all citizens,  Mr. Calo thought it incumbent upon Unesco to play its  part in the commemoration of the publication of the  work of such a great scholar.
(57) Mr. LEONG (Union of Burma) wished to couple  his delegation's name with the proposal to commem-  orate the great Comenius, -
(58) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that  the proposal under consideration was not consistent  with the concentration of Unesco's resources,
(69) On behalf of his delegatica, Mr. NISTOR  (Rumania) seconded the draft resolution submitted by  Czechoslovakia, because Comenius was one of the  fathers of modern educational methods and should be  considered one of the greatest thinkers of all times,
(60) Mi, BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia) congratulated  the authors of thé resolution and said that he would be  sorry if, owing to lack of funds, Unesco could not pay  due tribute to Coménius. On behalf of his delegation,  he requested that, if an edition of Comenius' works  were brought ait-in English and French, it should also  be issued in Spanish.
(61) Mr, ZIMIN (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  seconded the draft résolution submitted by Czecho-  slovakia and récalled that all modern education was  based on Comenius' work, He therefore considered  it a moral obligation for Uneaco to adopt the Czecho-  slovak proposal and thus to recognize that the part  played by great men in human history was to be judged  primarily by the influence which their ideas exercised  throughout the world.
(62) Mr, FRANCOIS (France) stated that articles and  books commemorating the publicdtion of Comenius’  work had alréady appeared in France. French  teachers were keenly interested in the celebration of  that anniversary and could not accept the idea that  Unesco should not take an active part in it.
(63) Mr. WEEDEN (Australis) was disappointed that    COMMISSION  there should be any discussion on the merits of the’  Czechoslovak proposal, There could be no question  a8 to the importance of Comenius’ work and  Mr, Weeden thought Unesco should publish material  about that great writer by all means at ite disposal,  without confining itself to acceptance of the very  modest Czech proposal.
(64) In answer to a question from the CHAIRMAN,  Mr. PAZUR (Ciechoslovalia) said that he agreed to  the figure proposed by the Department of Cultural ‘-  Activities for the execution of the resolution.
(65) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote document
9C/DR/28, which had been amply supported, including  the provision by Unesco of $4,000.
(66) The resolution was unanimously adopted.
(67) On behalf of his country, Mr. PAZUR  (Czechoslovakia) thanked the Commission for having  adopted the draft resolution submitted by the  Czechoslovak delegation.  The meeting rose at 9,10 p.m,  THIRTY-THIRD MEETING
1 December 1956, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. ANAS (Afghanistan)  later: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)
(1) Mr. BERTRAND(France) suggested that there  be a slight change in the order in which tae items on  the agenda were dealt with, and that the two small  parts of the Social Sciences chapter still remaining  be completed rapidly first. '
(2) The proposal was adopted,  ITEM 9.3 OF THE AGENDA : BOCIAL SCIENCES (continued)  (documents 9C/5 and Addenda and Corrigends)
3.11 Social Science Co-operation Offices  {paragraphs 181 to 181)
(3) Mr. PINO SAAVEDRA (Chile) asked whether the  project was justified since the establishment of the  centres at Rio de Janeiro and Santiago, Chile. He  suggested that the experts’ responsibilities might be  changed so that the work of those two centres could  be co-ordinated.
(4) Replying fo the delegate of Chile, Mr, MARSHALL  (Director, Départment of Social Sciences) carfirmed '  that the establishment of two Latin American centres  lessened the need for a special office in Chile. He     suggested that the Commission merely take note of  the fact inat the Secretariat, in making certain budget-  ary reductions, would consider the possibility of  economiring on that office, either by abolishing it  altogether or by postponing its establishment.
(5) Resolution 3111 was unanimously adopted.  ITEM 9.3.2 OF THE AGENDA : STANDARDIZATION OF  EDUCATIONAL STATISTICS (documents DC/PRG/4 and 28)
(6) Mr, KUYPERS (Belgium) pointed out that Working  Party No. 5 had given a unanimous opinion on docu-  ment 9C/PRG/4, relating to the staridardization of  educaticnal statistics, and had found it possible to  recommend a saving through production of the manual  on educational statistics in multigraphed instead of  printed form. iE
(7) Mr. BERTRAND (France) supported the draft  resolution cortéined in paragéapha 5 té 8 of the report  decument 9C/PRG/28.- He asked the Secretariat to  catimate the saving which would result from multi-  graphing the manual, and from the deletion of the  provision for experts! travel in connexion with the