20 November 1956, at 10,30 a,m.  Chairman:  ITEM 14.1 OF THE AGENDA : DRAFT AMENDMENTS TO THE  RULES OF PROCEDURE OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  (continued) (document 9C/ADM/12)
(1) The CHAIRMAN proposed th at thé Committee  continue its discussion of document 9C/ADM/12 and  that it begin by deciding on paragraph 5, which re-  lated to the functions of the Général Committee, and  on the proposed amendment to Rule 36 of the Rules  of Procedure contained in the document,
(3) Mr, SABA (Legal Advisèr) ‘aid not think that thé  . proposed amendment to Rule 36, as set forth in docu-  ment 9C/ADM/12, Arrex, should encounter any  serious objections, The diaft aïmendmerit stated ‘that  "The General Comnifttee’ shall not discuss the sub-  stance of any item except in'so far as’ this béars upon  the question whither the ‘General Committee should  recommend the inclusion of new items in the agenda".  While the wording of Rule 36 of the Rules of Procedure  of the General Conference differed from that of Rule
40 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly  of the United Nations, on which it was based, he be-  Meved it to be in line with the principle adopted by  the United Nations.
(3) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) ‘wondered whether it  would not be well to modify the proposed amendment
80 as to make the wording closer to that of Rule 40  of the Rules ‘ot Procedure of the General Assembly,  beginning the paragraph with the words "in considering  matters relating to the agenda of the General Con-  ference" instead of "in carrying out the above-  mentioned functions". . ’
(4) Mr. BABA (Legal Adviser) ) explained that the dif-  ference between the two, texts on that point had already  given rise to a certain amount of hesitation but that,  as the sense Of the proposed paragraph 2 was perfectly  clear, it had been thought unnecessary to alter the  wording, At thé same, Hme, he considered ‘that, in  deference to Mr. Héguiwara's scruples, ‘the new para-  graph 2 might be inserted immediately. after sub-  paragraph 1{c) and followed by another paragraph to  replace 1(d) reading "The General Committee also  “assiste the President in directing the general work of  the session"
(5) Mr, GOLUNSKY {Union of Soviet Socialist Rejub-  lice) thought that thé amendment would have a wider  effect than the Committee intended. Paragraph 2's  proposed by the Secretariat referred to all thé func-  tions listed 1a paragraph 1, If sub-paragraph a)  were to be inserted ‘after the proposed paragraph 2  it would no longer be one of the functions listed in  paragraph 1 on the same footing as sub- -paragraphs  {a), (b) and (c).
(6) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) did not wish to press  the point and would support the wording proposed in  document 9C/ADM/12.
(7) The proposed amendment was approved,
(8) The CHAIRMAN stated that the proposal to insert  a new Rule 78A in the Rules of Procedure, contained  in document 8C/ADM/ 12; had been submitted to a  drafting committee which had not yet finished consi-  dering the question. In addition, the Committee had  decided to give no opinion on the substance of the  proposed amendment to Rule 25, referring to the  abolition of the Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget, which was within the purview of the  Adminitis ative Commission. ;
(8) Mr, HAQU IWARA (Japan) observed that, if the  proposed amendment tô Rule 25 were approved by the  Administrative Commission, it would be necessary to  make corresponding amendments wherever the Advi-  sory Committee on Programme and Budget was  mentioned.
(10) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Legal Com-  mittee had already decided that point at a previous  meeting. He opened discussion on document
9C/ADM/6.  ITEM 12.5 OF THE AGENDA: REPORT BY THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL  ON AMENDMENTS TO THE -FINANQIAL REGULATIONS  (documents RC/ADM/6 and 8C/Resclutions, Annex 2, Section 19)
(11) Mr. SABA’ (Lega Adviser) veisiridea the meeting  that the General Conference, at its éfghth session, had  requested the Diréctor-General "to étudy the question  of whether it would be ‘desirable’ to insert in the  Financial Regulations a ‘provision that the regulations  may not be amended, ‘nor the ‘application ‘of éne of the  regulations ‘iapérdéd; except by a ‘decision taken by  a two-thirds majority of thé General Conference", and  to submit a report to the’ ninth’ session. °  He went ‘on to say that thé wording of the Constitution  appeared io be restrictive | on’ the question of the deci-  sions’to be’ taken 7a two-thirds ‘majority, aid that,  waen docunient 9C/ADM/6 had been submitted fo the’  Administrative Commission, the delegate of the  United Kingdori had pointed out that it would be teces-  sary to deterniine to what étent the Constitution  allowed the General Conference’ to decide that ä parti-  cular decision Téquired « ‘two-thirds majority: It had  then emerged that there was a discrepancy between  the provisions of the Constitution and sôme of the  decisions taken by the Général Confer ce; which had  provided for a two-thirds majority in cases not expressly   VIII-5  covered by the Constitution. That applied particularly  to certain sub-paragraphs of Rule 81 of the Rules of  Procedure,  It appeared that the draftsmen of the Constitution  had wished to provide for a simple majority except  in the cases where the Constitution itself provided for  a two-thirds majority. The constituent Conference of  Unesco, meeting in London in 1946, had in fact had  before it two draft Constitutions, one of which was  submitted by the Conference of Allied Ministers of  Education &nd the other by the French delegation.  While the former had been taken ag the basis for the  Conference's work, the draft submitted by the French  delegation also contained restrictive provisions re-  garding decisions by a two-thirds majority. The  system chosen by Unesco differed slightly from that  used by the United Nations. The United Nations  Charter provided for a simple majority except for  certain specified cases, grouped under the heading  of "important questions", but all other questions con-  sidered "important" by the General Assembly were  also decided by a two-thirds majority, There was  therefore a difference of conception between the rules  governing the two Organizations. For Unesco, deci-  sions were taken by a simple majority except where  the Constitution provided for a two-thirds majority,  while, for the United Nations, a simple majority  sufficed-except in the case of the "Important questions"  specified in the Charter or considered as such by the  General Assembly.  The practice subsequently followed by Unesco  appeared to diverge from the provisions of the Con-  stitution. In fact, the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference listed specific cases requiring a  two-thirds majority although such cases were not  mentioned in the Constitution.
(12) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America),  having obtained confirmation from the Legal Adviser  that the items contained in paragraphs (e), (f), (g)  and (h) of Rule 81 were not mentioned in the Conoti-  tution, pointed out that there therefore seemed to be,  in practice, no constitutional limit to the questions  to which the two-thirds majority rule could apply.
(13) Mr, ARTHUR, (United Kingdom) said ‘that, as  pointed out by the Legal Adviser, thé curious anomaly  between Unesco's Constitution and the. Rules of Pro-  cedure of the General Conference had been brought  to light during consideration by the Administrative  Commission of the Director-General's proposal regar-  ding suspension of the, Financial Regulations, The  Administrative Commission had voted in favour of the  principle that one or. more of the Financial Regula-  tions might be suspended by.a two-thirds majority  vote of the General Conference, and the Legal Com-  mittee was faced with the practical problem of study-  ing the means of impleménting that decision. As had  already been made clear, four of the items itsted in  the sub- paragraphs of Rule 81 were not covered by.  the provisions of the Constitution, so that it ‘could be  argued that it would be possible to give effect to the  decision of the Administrative Commission simply by  adding to Rule 81 a ninth sub- -paragraph (1) reading  ‘Suspension of a Financial Regulation”. That altera-  tion to Rule 81 could be made, according to the pro-  visions of Rule 107, which related to the amendment
692  LEGAL COMMITTEE  of the Rules of Procedure, by a simple majority of the  members present and voting, A decision to include  new cases to which the two-thirds majority rule would  apply could therefore be taken by a simple majority,  His delegation was prepared not to press the point it  had raised in the Administrative Commission regard-  ing the Director-General's proposals for suspersion  of the Financial Regulations, as it considered that it  was of greater importance to correct the anomalous  situation that had been revealed during discussion of  that proposal. It felt, rather, that the Legal Com-  mittee should consider the desirability of amending  the relevant Article of the Constituiion to include a  provision similar to that contained in the Charter of  the United Nations, whereby decisions on all matters  of importance were subject to a two-thirds majority  vote. In that connexion, he presumed that the decision  as to what did or did not constitute an important matter  would also be subject to the two-thirds majority rule.
(14) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) said that, on the  latter point, the United Kingdom delegate's interpre-  tation was incorrect. He read out Article 18 of the  United Nations Charter, paragraph 3 of which pro-  vided that decisions on questions other than "{mpor-  tant questions", "including the determination of addi-  tional categories of questions to be decided by a two-  thirde majority" should be made by a majority of the  members present and voting.
(16) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) again pointed out  that the main task of the Legal Committee was to  advise on the best method of giving effect to the deci-  sion of the Administrative ‘Commission. It could  therefore state that the decision could be implemented  by amendment of Rule 81, at the same time pointing  out that such a procedure would perpetuate an anomaly  existing between the Constitution and the Rules of  Procedure. The Committee could in consequence  recommend that’ the situation be corrected by an  amendment of the Constitution, If the relevant pro-  vision of the Unesco Constitution were amended to  conform to that of the Charter of the United Nations,  he assumed that, once an item such as suspension of  the Financial Regulations had been agreed, by a simple  majority vote, to be an important matter which ought,  to be subject to the two-thirds majority rule, that item  would be permanently included in the revised provision.  ‘(16) Mr. SABA (Légal Adviser) tought that the prob-  lem invoived a question of substance and a ques-  tion of procodure. With regard to the substance, the  Committee appeared to be unanimous on the need for  amending the Constitution. But it would havé to decide  -whether the proposed amendment should Ély5 a general  definition of the questions to be decided by = two-thirds  majority, ér whether it should merely relate to the  kind of majority to be required for proposals to amend  or suspend the Financial Regulations. -  Regarding procedure, amendments to the Constitu-  * tion were subject to the rules laid down in the Consti-  tution itself. In other words, proposed amendments  had to be submitted to Member States at least six  months before the opening of an ordinary session of  the Conférencé and Member States wishing to proposé  amendments to such amendments had to do so at least  three months before the opening of the session. A   LEGAL COMMITTEE  problem arose from the fact that the claiises in the  Rules of Procedure relating to amendment of the Con-  stitution provided for a two-thirds majority when  there was any question of déciding whether a proposed  amendment to a draft amendment should be deemed to  affect the substance, On the other hand, Article XIII,  paragraph 2, of the Constitution authorized the  General Conference to adopt rules of procedure to be  followed with regard to amendments,
(17) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan) thought that, if there  was a discrepancy between the provisions of the Con-  stitution and those of the Rules of Procedure, the  latter should be amended to bring them into line with  the former. The provision for simple majority  decisions except in very special cases was one of the  basic principles of Unesco, and to extend the category  of special cases would be contrary to the spirit of the  Organization. Article XIN of the Constitution  appeared to imply that an amendment to the principle  of the simple majority was one which would require  subsequent acceptance by two-thirds of the Member  States.  In practice, a two-thirds majority had been récôg-  nized for a certain number of cases, in particular  those listed in the last four sub-paragraphe of Rule
81 of the Rules of Procedure. While he was prepared  to concede that the practice be maintained, he would  oppose any new exception to the simple majority rule,  which he considered fundamental, He agreed that the  Financial Regulations should not be suspended too  often, but he thought it unnecessary to require a two-  thirds majority for their suspension and would prefer  the solution proposed by the Director-General in docu-  ment 9C/ADM/6.
(18) Mr. ARTHUR (TInite4 Kingdom) thought that the  Legal Committee should not concern itaelf with the  substantive question of whether or not provision should  be made for suspension of any of the Financial Regula-  tions. A decision in that matter had already been  taken by the Administrative Commission, and the  Legal Committee had only to consider the means of -  implementing that decision. The Committee should  consider whether the proposal made by the United  Kingdom to give effect to the decision by the addition  of a new sub-paragraph to Rule 81 was valid or not.  If that proposal were considered to be valid, the deci-  sion of the Administrative Commission could be im-  plemented by an amendment to the Rules of Procedure,  but, if the Committee took a contrary view, the  Administrative Commission would have to be informed  that effect could be given to its decision only by an  amendment of the relevant Article of the Constitution.
(19) The CHAIRMAN said that there appeared to be  two questions needing solution. The first was a legal  one, concerning the possibility of adding a new sub-  paragraph to Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure; and  the second, and more important, was a question of  substance, concerning the discrepancy between the  Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. In his view,  it was important to solve the latter first.
(20) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  indicated his delegation's preference for the solution  adopted by the United Nations in Article 18 of its
693  VIII-5  Charter. It séemed that thé General Couference of  Unesco had followed the practice of making additions  to Rule 81 without considéring whether or not that  practice was valid. He did not think it was either  necessary or desirable to list in'the Constitution every  item that should be subject to the two-thirds majority  rule, since a Constitution should always be on broad,  rather than on spédific lines, For that reason, he  would be in favour of amending Article IV, 8(a) of the  Constitution to conform to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of  Article 18 of the United Nations Charter, The situa-  tion with regard to the two-thirds majority rule would  thus be clear, and there would be no necessity for  further amendment of the Constitution to take account  of other specific items that future sessions of the  Conference might decide should be subject to that rule,  He therefore suggested that the Committee recom-  mend that steps be taken by the Director-General, in  consultation with the Executive Board, to draft an  amendment to the Unesco Constitution to include in  that Constitution, the provisions regarding specific and  other important items subject to the two-thirds majo-  rity rule that were set forth in Article 18 of the United  Nations Charter.
(21) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) thought that it was  for the Legal Committee to decide how the Constitution  should be amended, .  Referring to the remarks of the delegate of Japan,  he said that, urder the terms of Article XIII of the  Constitution, only "those amendments which involve  fundamental alterations in the aims of the Organiza-  tion or new obligations for the Member States" required  subsequent acceptance on the part of {wo-thirds of the  Member States before they came into force. The Com-  mittee should therefore consider whether the amend-  ment in question came into that category, In his  opinion, adoption by the General Conference by a two-  thirds majority was all that was required in that case.
(22) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America) also  felt that the proposed amendment did not involve any  “fundamental alteration" or "new obligation", within  the meaning of Article XIII, which would necessitate  ita subsequent acceptance by two-thirds of the Mem-  ber States. The amendment sought only to clarify  an ambigüous situation, and it was the duty of the  Legal Committee to see that any discrepancies between  the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure were cor-  rected. The proposed amendment could not be acted  upon before the tenth session of the General Con-  ference and, for that reason, he had thought that the  draft should be prepared by the Director-General,  with the advice of the Executive Board, rather than by  the Legal Committee at its current session. If that  procedure were adopted, consideration of the Director-  General's proposal regarding suspension of the Finan-  cial Regulations would be deferred until the proposed  amendment to the Constitution had been approved.
(23) The CHAIRMAN felt that the Committee's opinion  was that it did not have to decide on the question of  amending the Constitution, but could confine itself to  pointing out the discrepancy between the Constitution  and the Rules of Procedure and asking for the question  to be examined by the Director-General and the  Executive Board.   VII-5
(24) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan) agreed, Unlike the  delegate of the United States of America, he did not  think it desirable to amend Article IV, C of the Con-  stitution to bring it into line with the provisions of the  United Nations Charter. In his opinion, such a pro-  cedure might create some confusion in the General  Conference. For example, when the latter was con-  sidering the budget ceiling, it would first have to  decide whether that question was important enough to  require a two-thirds majority. And if it were so  decided, it might very well happen that none of the  various proposals concerning the budget ceiling  obtained a two-thirds majority; the result would then  be complete confusion, He urged that the principle  of a simple majority be considered as basic.  Mr. Haguiwara wondered whether the proposal of  the United Kingdom delegate was not at variance with  Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure, under which the  Rules could be altered by a decision of the General  Conference taken by a majority of the members  present and voting, except when they reproduced pro-  visions of the Constitution.
(25) Mr, ARTHUR (United Kingdom) first wished to  make it clear that he was quite prepared for the Legal  Committee to state in its report that, whereas there  appeared to be a certsin amount of prima facie evidence  that effect could be given to the decision of the Admini-  strative Commission by amending Rule 81 of the Rules  of Procedure, it did not regard that procedure as  satisfactory and would prefer the situation to be  clarified by an amendment of the Constitution.  That being said, there were two methods by which  the Constitution could be amended to remove the  exigting anomaly: (1) by amendment at each place  necessary to cover the items included in sub-para-  graphs (e), {f), (g) and (h) of Rule 81, and the specific  item under consideration; in that case, the Genéral  Conference should be informed that the ameadment  was not designed to reopen discussion of those items,  upon which décisions of the Conference had already  been taken, but merely to corre¢t an ambiguous situa-  tion that existed bécause of thosé decisions; (2) by a  general amendment of Article IV on the lines proposed  by the delegate of the United States of America,  pointing out to the General Conference that several  items upon which it had already taken a decision with  respect to the two-thirds majority rule would come  under the Heading of "important matters", and suggest-  ing that they automatically be considered as such.  The General Conference would thus recognize its  previous decisions, including, he hoped, that of the  ninth session with respect to suspension of the  Financial Regulations.  Of those two methods, his delegation would prefer  the second as being in conformity with the practices  of the United Nations. - :  He believed that the delegate of Japan was under the  impression that adoption of the second method would  be detrimental to the simple majority rule, but thought  he could be reassured by the Legal Adviser's statement  that the question of what did or did not constitute an  important matter would be decided by a simple  majority of members present and voting.
(26) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) put forward a  third possible solution, The Constitution might
654     LEGAL COMMITTEE  include a provision that the General Con-  ference itself should determine in its Rules of  Procedure which cases required a two-thirds majority,  New cases could then be added only by means of amend-  ments to the Rules of Procedure.
(27) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) pointed out that the Committee already had be-  fore it three possible solutions and there was no  reason to suppose that others would not be submitted  if the discussion continued, As its members were in  no position to deèlde in favour of any one of those  solutions, since they had not gone deeply enough into  the question, hé thought that the Committee should  merely explain the legal position to de Administrative  Commission, drawing its attention to the fact that the’  problem could not be solved immediately and possibly  expressing a preference for one or other of the pos-  gible solutions, Should the Administrative Commission  consider it advisable, it would recommend that the  question be considered in readiness for the next session  of the Conference. But, in any case, it was not for the  Legal Committee to decide on the substance of the question  orto indicate how the Constitution should be amended,
(28) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) thought that the  observations of the Soviet delegate applied only to part  . of the question raised by the Administrative Commis-  sion, which also wanted to have the Committee's  opinion on the discrepancy existing between the Con-  stitution and the Rules of Procedure.
(29) Mr, GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  Mcs) thought that, there again, the Committee should  limit itself to informing the Administrative Commis-  sion. It could indicate that there was in fact a dis-  crepancy between the two documents, and that the  situation was abnormal and would have to be remedied  either by amending the Constitution or by modifying  the Rules of Procedure.
(30) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America) sup-  ported the suggestion made earlier that the Committee  advise the Administrative Commission that, on the  basis of the precedents provided by the addition of para:  graphs (e), (1); (g) and (h) to Rule 81, and if it were  decided to follow those precedents, the provision with  regard to the suspension of the Financial Regulations  could also be added to that Rule; but that the Admini-  strative Commission should also consider the advisa-  bility of eliminating the existing ambiguity between the  Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. Attention  should also be drawn to the text of Article 18 of the  Charter of the United Nations, and to the suggestion  that the Director-General be asked to prepare, in con-  sultation with the Executive Board, anamendment to bring  paragraph 8 (a) of Article IV of the Constitution into  conformity with that Article of the United Nations Charter,
(31) The CHAIRMAN felt that the members of the  Committee agreed with the Soviet delegate as to the  manner in which the problem should be presented to the  Administrative Commission, but asked them to decide  on the proposal of the United States delegate thata  new sub-paragraph (i) be added to Rule 81 of the Rules  of Procedure, dealing with the suspension of the  Financial Regulations.   LEGAL COMMITTEE
(32) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) thought that the  Committee's report to the Administrative Commission  should contain a closely argued statement of the  various methods by which the Committee felt the dis-  crepancy between the provisions of the Constitution  and the Rules of Procedure could be corrected. He  pointed out that the Administrative Commisaion had  asked the Legal Committee to study that anomaly, but  had not taken any decision as to whether or not it  should be corrected, Such a decision would obviously  depend on the various proposals made by the Legal  Committee, and a clear statement of those proposals  would enable the General Conference to take a deci-  sion, at ita current session, as to whether or not it  wished the existing situation to be corrected, and if  so, by which method.
(33) Mr, GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) said he would agree to that proposal if the  various methods by which the situation could be cor-  rected were included in the report of the Committee  merely as examples of ways in which the matter  could be handled, and not as specific recommenda-  tions of the Legal Committee.
(34) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japen) urged that, after  listing the proposed solutions, the report of the Com-  mittee should mention that, from the legal standpoint,  it considered it preferable to amend the Rules of Pro-  cedure rather than the Constitution.
(35) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) suggested the follow-  ing outline for the Committee's report. It would  state that the Committee had considered the proposal  of the United States delegation for an amendrnent of  Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure, and the more  general question of the discrepancy existing between  the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, and had  considered it better to decide the second of those  problems first. J: would add that the Constitution  could not be interpreted as meaning that the General  Conference was able to decide, by a simple amend-  ment to the Rules of Procedure, that s particular  question should require a two-thirds majority,  It would also point out that the Committee considered  the last four sub-paragraphs of Rule 81 of the Rules  of Procedure to be at variance with the Constitution,  and that consideration should be given to measures  for removing that discrepanéy. -  It would list the various possible solutions: amend-  ment of the Rules of Procedure or amendment of the  Constitution in accordance with the procedure laid  down in Article XIII.‘ Variovs methods would be sug-  gested in connexion with the latter solution, e.g.  special amendments for each of the questions to be  decided by a two-thirds rnajority; the method adopted  by the United Nations Charter; a inore general  . authorization to the Conference to take decisions with  regard to the majority required for certain questions  on condition that appropriate provisions were in-  serted in the Rules of Procedure. The Committee  should also suggest the necessity of deciding how to  interpret the last four sub-peragraphs of Rule 81 of  the Rules of Procedure, pending clarification of the  situation. In that connexion, he stated that the Con-  stitution had not laid down the procedure for the  organization of the General Conference's work, nor
695     VIIL-8  specified to what degree an amendment submitted to  Member States six months in advance could be  amended by the General Conference or the Member  States, and that it had been necessary to clarify those  points in the Rules of Procedure.  The Legal Adviser said he was prepared to draw up  a report on those lines, but wished to have some  indication of the Committee's attitude regarding the  last four sub-paragraphs of Rule 81 and, in particular  sub-paragraph (e) relating to "a change of the seat of  the Organization'' and the reference to Rule 106 of the  Rules of Procedure,  In reply to.a question from the delegate of the  United States of America, Mr, Saba said that the deci-  sion regarding the majority necessary for a change of  the seat of the Organization had been taken at the  London Conference which had adopted the Constitution  in 1945. In his opinion, the draftsmen of the Consti-  tution, by proposing the adoption of a resolution regard-  ing the Organization's headquarters at the same time  as the Constitution, and by incorporating that resolu-  tion in the final Act of the Conference, had indicated  the importance they attached to that decision,
(36) Mr, SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  argued that, if there was nothing in the Constitution  to warrant the inclusion of sub-paragraph (6) in Rule
81, that item fell into the same doubtful category as  the three final sub-paragraphs of that Rule. Further-  more, he was not convinced that there were express  constitutional grounds for the inclusion of the reference  to the application of Rule 106 of the Rules of Pro-  cedure in sub-paragraph (b). That uncertainty pro-  vided a further illustration of the difficulty and  impracticability of being specific in a document such  as the Constitution, and pointed to the need for evolv-  ing a text couched in broader terms.
(37) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) thought that it might  be well to indicate that, although some of the provi-  sions of the Rules of Procedure were at variance with  the terms of the Constitution, others, not expressly  mentioned in the latter, appeared to comply with the  intentions of the draftsmen. So far as the Organiza-  tion's Headquarters was concerned, for example, a  resolution had been adopted at the same time as the  Constitution; and Rule 106 appeared to have been  drawn up by virtue of the delegation of powers referred  to in paragraph 2 of Article XIII of the Constitution.  The Committee could list the other paragraphs of the  Rules of Procedure which could not be justified by  reference to the Constitution, but without adding any  comments in respect of them,
(38) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  pointed out that a resolution adopted by the London  Conference, although included in the Final Act of that  Conference which was signed by Member States, was  neither included in the Constitution nor ratified in any  form by Member States. The Committee should be  clear on that point.
(39) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that there was  no question of drawing up the report in rigid terms,  but that stress should be laid on the fact that some  paragraphs seemed to be in a different category from  those that were clearly at variance with the terins of   VIII-6  the Constitution. With regard to the seat of the  Organization, it would be stated that the question had  been the subject of a resolution adopted at the London  Conference and reproduced in a document signed by  several countries, but the precise legal significance  of the decision would not be defined.
(40) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) indicated his  agreement with the general outline of the Committee's  report given by the Legal Adviser, Referring to the  point raised by the delegate of the United States of  America with respect to sub-paragraph (e) of Rule
81, he saw no reason why a statement of the reasons  that had led to the inclusion of that item in the Rule  should not be ‘included in thé Committee's report. It  could even be stated that that itern might be considered  to be in a different category from sub-paragraphs (f),  (g) and (h), although it was evident that all four items  were alike, in the sense that none of them was  covered by a specific proviaion of the Constitution.
(41) It was decided that the report should be drawn  up on the basis just outlined.  ITEM 14.30F THF. AGENDA: REPORT ON THE APPLICATION OF THE  RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR THE CALLING OF INTERNATIONAL  CONFERENCES OF STATES (document 9C/ADM/ 14)
(42) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) stated that the  General Conference in 1952 had adopted two sets of  Rules of Procedure, one for the calling of interna-  tional conferences of States and the other for the  calling of non-governmental conferences. They were  based on rules of procedure adopted by the General    LEGAL COMMITTEE  Assembly of the United Nations in 1949 and 1950,  empowering the Economic and Social Couticil to call  conferences of that type," Document 90/ADM/14 des-  cribed certain difficulties encountéred by the Secre-  tariat in applying those Rules of Procedure, In the  first place, there was the question of the exact mean-  irg of the term "international conferences of States".  That term should be interpretéd mainly as meaning  a conference of duly accredited representatives of  States, meeting for the purpose of adopting interna-  tional conventions or recommendations, and reporting  the results of their labours directly to each of the  participating govérnments. That category could not  be taken to covèr meetings of experts, such as that  held in India to study the social problems resulting  from industrialization whose findings were addressed  to the competent bodies of the Organization, or con-  ferences convened not by Unesco itself but by a Mem-  ber State. International conferences of States should  apparently be essentially sovereign bodies independent  of any specific organization,  He went on to explain that document 9C/ADM/14 was  submitted to the Legal Committee to enable it to judge  whether the practice followed by the Organization was  truly in conformity with the rules adopted. Hedrew  attention to paragraph 19, which summarized the con-  clusions that could be drawn after four years of  experience, He thought, however, that the document  was worthy of thorough study by the members of the  Committee and therefore proposed that discussion on  it be adjourned to a later meeting.  Agreed. .  The meeting rose at 1 p.m,  SIXTH MEETING
26 November 1956, at 3. 45 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. MATSUI (Japan)  THIRD REPORT OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE  (TWO-THIRDS MAJORITY) (document 9C/JUR/PROV/5)
(1) The CHAIRMAN submitted document 9C/JUR/  PROV/5 for the Committee's approval,
(2) Paragraphs 1-8 were approved.
(3) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America) sug-  gested omitting the second sentence of paragraph 9  but thought that that point might be brought out more  clearly after a discussion of paragraphs 11 and 12,
(4) Paragraph 10 was approved.
(5) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America) thought
696  that paragraph 11 should be considered together with  paragraph 12 because of their close relation. Para-  graph 11 provided for a general rule for a simple  majority, a list of the subjects which required a two-  thirds majority, and a provision for the determination  of additional categories of such questions by the  General Conference by a simple majority. He thought  that if the additional categories were listed in the Rules  of Procedure, paragraph 12 could be eliminated. The  General Conference could always add to the list of gub-  jects requiring a two-thirds majority.
(6) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the United  States delegate therefore considered that the United  Nations Charter should not be taken as a model,  and whether he preferred to introduce a separate