PROGRAMME COMMISBION IV-11  ELEVENTH MEETING
21 November 196€, at 11 a.m.  Chairman: Mrs, MYRDAL (Sweden)
(1} The CHAIRMAN said that the General Committee  had just taken several decisions of interest to the  Commission: (1) night sessions would begin in the  following week; (2) draft resolutions would be clausi-  fled In various categories and, while those relating to  major projects and to the Annex to document 9C/6  Corrigendum 1 were receivable, new ideas not for-  nally submitted to the Programme Commission could  be presented from the floor; (3) the Director-General  had prepared a new document - 9C/6 Corrigendum 4 -  setting out his proposals concerning the manner in  which the additional $1,000,000 voted by the General  Conference could be spent, The document would be  distributed immediately, without the Board's com-  ments at that stage.  ITEM 9.3 OF THE AGENDA : SOCIAL SCIENCES (continued)  (documents 9C/5 and Addenda and Corrigenda)
3.5 Development of teaching of the social sciences  (paragraphs 88-100) (continued)
(3) Mr, SOREBROTO (Indonesia) was very much  interested in paragraph 89 of the Social Sciences chap-  ter. He explained that senior schools were operated  by he Ministry of Education in his country in con-  pexion with juvenile delinquency. He wished to know  how'such schools were run in other countries; the  problem was being studied in the United States of  America, Canada, etc., and Unesco could help by  forwarding a suitable request for information to Mem-  ber States.
(3) Mr, PINO SAAVEDRA (Chile) referred to the re-  marks made at the previous meeting by Mr. Marquis,  of the United States delegation, and said that he would  comment on them at the appropriate time.  {4) Mr, ADISESHIAH (Catholic International Union  for Social Service), said that training for social ser-  vice had not developed along scientific lines. The  Union had promoted Uñesco's aims in Europe and  America to the benefit of the populations, and it  wished to stress the importance of spiritual values  and close contact with thé people in connexion with  such work. The people who were to do social work  should be very carefully chosen on the basis of scien-  tific, economic, psychological and social data, The  Poona Institute had helped with part-time courses on  socal service, and many other bodies had done like-  wise; but they suffered from a lack of literature to  foster the appropriate spirit. Social service was not  à science but an art; social case-work called for  deftness in dealing with people, not a sympathetic  distribution of gifts; it was not a lucrative profession  and, therefore, psychological screening of candidates
355  was most important. The apeaker stressed that the  Union, which had had consultative status since 1948,  should be added to those mentioned in paragraph 98  and suggested a consequential amendment of resolution
(5) Mr, VITO (Italy) repeated that he was strongly in  favour of social science teaching, He called attention  to the fact that social science achools were differently  organized in different countries, and thought that  representatives of the different methods should be con-  sulted by the Secretariat. He supported the Catholic  International Union's request and moved that the words  and competent non-governmental organizations" should  be added to resolution 3.52, after the words "Member  States’.
(6) Mr, WEEDEN (Auatralia) welcomed the proposed  participation of the Member States, Concerning the  criterion of needs for funds, he thought the Director-  General's proposals, based on cereful examination of  the situation, should be supported without holding him  too closely to the suggestions made.
(7) Mr, CAILLET-BOIS (Argentina) supported the  amendment proposed by the delegate of Italy and indi-  cated that the Catholic International Union for Social  Service was the most active of the non-governmental  organizations co-operating in Unesco's work in  Argentina,
(8) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Italian amend-  ment referred only to the resolution itself; the sug-  gestions made in relation to the work plan were for the  guidance of the Secretariat.
(8) Mr. ZEISSL (Austria) seconded the motion pre-  sented by the delegate of Italy.
(10) Mr. STERNBERGER (Federal Republic of Ger-  many) asked that the Department of Social Sciences  should include among its publications the booklet on  social science teaching in the Federal Republic of  Germany,
(11) Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) associated himself with  what the Italian delegate, supported by Argentina, had  said regarding the Catholic International Union for  Social Service, Organizations of that kind were doing  very useful work in his country. -Hé emphasized the  importance which should be attached to the develop-  ment of social science teaching and recalled the United  States delegate's atatement that such work should be  carried out in a more practical manner and his sug-  gestion that a university might be asked to make pro-  posals for the purpose. Mr. Chediak said that the  suggestion had been taken up and the Cuban Government   fv-11 PROGRAMME  had authorixed the grant of a subvention of $10,000  to the Inter-American Academy of Comparative and  International Law for the organisation of a seminar  on that subject,. The offer had no budgetary implica-  tions. He read out his proposal in the following  terms: "The Director-General is authorized, in co-  operation with the Organization of American States  and the Inter-American Academy of Comparative and  International Law, to organize a seminar in the Wes-  tern Hemisphere for the study of international orga-  nizations - the United Nations, Unesco and the Orga-  nization of American States in particular - and to  invite to this seminar the officials responsible, in the  appropriate ministries, for dealing with the problems  of those organizations, For this purpose, the  Director-General is authorized to use the funds  allotted to the Programme of Participation in Member  States! Activities to the extent that he may deem ex-  pedient, and to enlist the co-operation of the Orga-  nization of American States and of the sald Academy".  The proposal had various practical advantages; it  would make It possible to inform young officials about  those international organizations, facilitate direct  contacts between those officials - an important point,  since the policies of governments to some extent re-  flected officlala' opinions - and, finally would provide  an opportunity for trying out, on à small scale, the  idea of a centre for the basic training of international  civil servants. The results of Unesco's collaboration  with the Academy had already been published in a  volume of over 400 pages. The project would be a  continuation of Unesco's scientific work over the past  years. The Organization would be at liberty to invite  teachers and experts in administrative science to the  seminar, and the meeting would contribute to the  efficiency of the bodies responsible for carrying out  Unesco's work in America, Mr. Chedlak stressed  that his proposal was unique, as the seminar would be  the first meeting of officials in charge of work con-  nected with Unesco and the United Nations: it would  study the obstacles that cropped up, the best way to  carry out résolutions, and collaborution between the  United Nations and the Organization of American  States; it would also provide an example for other  continents to follow, The Cuban Government and the  director of the Academy proposed that the seminar  should be held at the end of 1957 or in 1958, The  meeting would be organized jointly by all the bodies  concerned,
(12) The CHAIRMAN assured the Commission that  the Cuban suggestion would be considered in relation  to the work plan and to the implementation of the pro-  gramme.
(13) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) wished to act on Mr.  Marshall's suggestion that proposals for the 1959-
1960 period and observations on the 1957-1958 pro-  gramme should be presented together,  He pointed out that - as the Rapporteur of the Com-  mittee oh Réports of Member States had indicated -  the majority of States had made appreciable efforts  to develop social science teaching. At the university’  level, those efforts would certainly b- continued with  Unesco's help, but it would be usefus if, in the period  from 1957 to 1960, work were also done on social  science teaching in secondary schools and on the  COMMISSION
356  teaching of applied social science. It was desirable,  theréfore, that the Programme Commission should  ask the Secretariat to concentrate the Organization's  aid to Member States in that field, firstly, on the  schools of social service already existing in many  countries and, secondly, on the teaching of the social  sciences in secondary schools,  With regard to section D - "Participation in Member  States! activities" - and particularly to paragraph (i) -  ‘Technical aid in connexion with the improvement of  the terminology used in the social solences", Mgr  Maroun wished emphasis to be laid on the development  or the introduction of social science teaching in secon-  dary schools and in schools of social service.  Finally, he entirely agreed with the comments of  previous speakers concerning the Catholic International  Union for Social Service.
(14) The CHAIRMAN said that the action before the  Commission was: (1) a vote on the amendment of resolu  tion 3.52; and (2) a decision concerning the restoration  of the appropriations for Member States! participation  in the social sclences programme,
(15) Mr. ZAVALA (Mexico) referred to draft resolu-  tion 3.52 - "The Director-General is authorized, in  co-operation with Member States, to encourage and  facilitiate,,.,." - and reported that in Latin America,  the Organization of American States and the Mexican  School of Anthropology had both done work connected  with the soclal sciences, The wording of the resolution  suggested that a Member State's support was necessary  for the execution of such tasks, and he proposed that  the text be amended by the insertion of "and the appro-  priate international organizations" after the words "in  co-operation with Member States.
(16) Mr. KAUL (Representative of the International  Labour Organisation) wished to point out that paragraph
28 of document 96/5 Corrigendum 1 did not mention  co-operation with the ILO, which was included in the  corresponding paragraph of the original proposed pro-  gramme (document 9C/6). As such collaboration in the  project dealing with a survey of teaching materials  used in schools for social work was certainly most  desirable, he urged that the necessary correction be  made to paragraph 98 of Corrigendum 1.
(17) Mr. MARSHALL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences), referring to paragraph 98, repeated that  the proposal to study the best method for satisfying  the needs of social science trainees would be worked  out with the United Natlons Bureau of Soclal Affairs.  ‘The Department was concerned with teaching only, and  that was why ILO had not been mentioned in the survey  of training for social work. He apologized to the  Catholic International Union for Social Service for the  omission of its name - it would certainty be consulted.  He assured the German delégate that his request would  be satisfied, and the Cuban delegation that its generous  offer of a seminar would be brought in undér the head-  ing of national symposia. His Department fully endorsed  the emphasis placed earlier by the United States delega-  tion on a careful planning of the Participation pro-  gramme, Under point (e) of the Social Sciences section  of document 9C/5, Corrigendum 4, the restoration of  the cut in the Participation programme budget for work   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  in the field of social science teaching was proposed.
(18) Resolution 3.51 was adopted unanimously.
(19) Mr, ZAVALA (Mexico) emphasized that consult-  ing international organizations was one thing, while  co-operating with Member States and appropriate  international organizations was something quite  different.
(20) Mr, BERTRAND (France) proposed making use  in resolution 3,52, of the same wording as in resolu-  tion 3.42, namely: "The Director-General is autho-  rised, in co-operation with Member States and with  the competent international organizations ,...'".
(21) The amendment to resolution 3,52 - as modified  by the French suggestion, accepted by the delegates  of Italy and Mexico - was unanimously approved, The  résolution would read: "The Director-General is  authorized, in co-operation with Member States and  with the competent International organizations, govern-  mental and non-governmental, to encourage ...." etc,
(22) The CHAIRMAN stressed that section (D) would,  for the time being, be reserved for the inclusion of an  amendment on the lines mentioned by the delegate of  Lebanon,
(23) The Commission approved unanimously a pro-  posal to restore $5,000 in paragraph 109 of document
9C/5 (Participation in Member States’ activities:  Sncial Sclences).  DIRECTOR-GENERAL'S PROPOSALS FOR THE USE OF THE  ADDITIONAL $ 1,000,000 (document 9C/8 Corrigendum 4)
(24) Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) in-  formed the Commission that document 9C/6 Corri-  gendum 4, which had just been distributed, contained  the Director- General's proposals for the use of the  additional $1,000,000 voted by the General Conference,  In framing those proposals, the Director-General had  taken into account the resolutions submitted by dele-  gations up to the time-limit of 16 November, and the  projects listed in the Annex to document 9C/5 Corri-  gendum 1 - but not included in the original budget -  whenever those projects had been taken up by delega-  tions, The first column ofted, under "reference,  the documents in which the proposals appearing in the  second column were described. In formulating his  proposals for the use of the additional funds, the  Director-General had complied with the desire of the  General Conference as expressed {nthe plenary meeting,  and had allocated the greater part to the major projects.
(25) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Commission  did not have to take action on the document as a whole,  but to note its contents as each point came under dis-  cussion, She proposed taking up the question of the  Cologne Institute (paragraphs 35-37 of document 9C/5,  Part II, Chapter 3).  Cologrie Institute
(26) Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) asked whether the
357  IV-11  Commission would have the Executive Board's advice  on the latest Corrigendum submitted by the Director-  General,
(27) The CHAIRMAN replied that the General Com-  mittee had authorized the Commission to consider the  document without waiting for the comments of the  Board, which was not meeting till the following day.
(28) Mr, MARQUIS (United States of America) was not  quite clear as to the acope of the Cologne Institute  issue, The United States delegation supported the in-  creased subvention proposed by the Director-General  but would like to be certain that it would be accompanied  by a new review of the Institute's administration, pro-  gramme, prospects, eté., on the basis of the criteria  stated in the following recommendation which the dele-  gation put forward as an instruction to the Secretariat:  "The Programme Commission  Considering the significance of the Cologne Institute  for the promotion of international research in the field  of social science,  Having due regard to the accomplishments of the  Institute ôver the past five years, however,  Concerned about the lack of success of the Institute  in fully developing international and cross-border pro-  grammes and in enlisting the interest, on a contract  basis, of a wider international clientele, thereby  reaching a status of relative financial independence,  Favouring the decision of the Director-General to  increase the present budget for the next two years,  Welcomes the proposal to re-examine comprehen-  sively the work and organization of the Institute, and  Recommends that such a re-examination be under-  taken by the Secretariat in 1957 with the following  criteria in mind:  (a) to explore the capacity of the Secretariat, speci-  fically of the Department of Social Sciences, to utilize  the cervices of the Institute to the fullest extent  possible;  (b) to examine the prospects of increasing the interest  of Member States and outside agencies in supporting  the work of the Institute, so that the major part of the  regular budget of the Inatitute be recured by contribu-  tions of, or by contracts concluded with, Member  States and agencies outside Unesco;  (c) to analyse the structure and scope of the present  organization and management from the point of vlew of  administrative efficiency and economy; and  (d) to scrutinize the programme of the Instituté from  the point of view of proper selection of subject matters  and subject areas in the interest of intensified interna-  tional and cross-border research;  Recommends further that, following the conclusion  of this comprehensive re-examination, the Executive  Board bé authorized to evaluate the report and to make  final suggestions concerning future support of the  Institute by Unesco",
(29) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Commission's  decision about the Cologne Institute would necessarily  have a somewhat provisional character.
(30) Mr. MARSHALL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) agreed with the very carefully worded United  States recommendation. He said that the reconstruction  of the Institute should and would be examined, but it   Iv-11  might not be possible to complete it by the end of
(31) The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Commission  proceed to vote on the size of the subvention the Insti-  tute would receive,
(32) Mr. CHELYSHEV (Union of Soviet Socialist Re-  publics) noted - as several speakers had done before  him - that the Commission had no very clear picture  of the activities and aims of the Cologne Institute,  although it knew all about its financial position, He  therefore thought a decision to incresse the Institute's  budget would be premature, The delegation of the  Soviet Union was in favour of the United States dele-  gate's proposal that the Director-General be recom-  mended to scrutinize the activities and work plans of  the Institute in order to make sure that they were in  harmony with Unesco's aims. The Soviet delegation  would therefore abstain from voting on the question of  the Institute's budget until a detailed account of its  work was available,
(33) Mr. MARQUIS (United States of America) sup-  ported the Director-General's proposal because he  was not quite sure of the purpose of the German dele-  gation's proposal to increase the subvention to  $45, 000,
(34) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Commission  was in possession of the maximum knowledge avail-  able on the matter.
(35) Mr. STERNBERGER (Federal Republic of Ger-  many) stressed that the most urgént question was the  appointment of a new Director of the Institute, If the  Commission voted for a subvention of $38,000 it would  not cure the "sick man of Cologne‘ nor even ensure  his temporary survival, He therefore pressed for a  $45,000 subvention, or at least for the $42,000 recom-  mended by the working party of the Executive Board,
(36) Mr. ASSUMPGAO DE ARAUJO (Brazil) said that  his delegation had expressed the wish that a chain of  social science institutes might be developed all over  the world; the Cologne Institute could play an impor-  tant part among them, He accordingly seconded the  proposal presented by the delegate of the Federal Re-  public of Germany.
(37) The proposal was also supported by the delega-  tions of Italy and Afghanistan.
(38) Mr, BERTRAND (France) ‘recalled that, in docu-  ment 9C/5 Corrigendum 1, the figure proposed by the  Director-General for the annual subvention to the  Cologné Institute was $30,000, The Executive Board  had suggested increasing that sum by $8, 000 a year  and that was the sum shown in Corrigendum 4 which  had just been distributed (page 6, Social Sciences  (b)). It the proposal put forward by the delegate of  the Federal Republic of Germany was approved, it  would entail an increase of $4,000 in the Institute's  annual budget and, therefore, an equal reduction in  the funds allotted to other programme projects.  The French delegation fully appreciated the sound-  ness of the arguments adduced by the delegate of the
358  PROGRAMME COMMISSION  Federal Republic of Germany, particularly as regarded  the need for securing the services of a first-rate  director, But, on the other hand, the United Btates  - delegate's recommendation, which had the support of  the Director of the Department of Social Sciences, sug-  gested that the Conference was looking forward toa  scheme for the complete reorganization of the Institute  in accordance with the criteria listed, The Institute  should therefore begin that work of reorganization  without delay, making savings, in particular, on the  costs of the Governing Board. It seemed wiser to Mr.  Bertrand to reduce the internal expenditure of the  Institute by $4,000 so as to provide adequate remunera-  tion for its Director. He accordingly proposed that  the Commission approve the subvention recommended  by the Executive Board, which action, in the light of  the discussion that had taken place, would indicate its  desire that the reorganization be carried out as soon  as possible,
(39) The Commission approved, by 21 votes to 15,  with 18 abstentions, the grant to the Cologne Institute  of a yearly subvention of $42,000 for the next two  years,  International bibliographies
(40) Mr. MARSHALL (Director, Department of Soclal  ficlences) pointed out that Corrigendum 1 proposed a  cut of $132,000 in the budgetary provision for interna-  tional bibliographies for the two years. The Director-  General now proposed, in Corrigendum 4, to restore  $3,260 of that cut,
(41) The CHAIRMAN stressed that Poland, France,  Italy and Norway had pressed for a full restoration of  the reduction,
(42) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) had understood from the  Chairman's statement at the opening of the meeting  that, as Corrigendum 4 had not yet been suomitted to  the Executive Board - with the exception of the ques-  tion of the Cologne Institute - discussion of that docu-  ment was not in order.
(43) The CHAIRMAN explained that, since there had  not been time for the Board's recommendations, the  General Committee had authorized the discussion of  the document without them.
(44) Mr. ZUKROWSKI (Poland) pressed for a full  restoration of the cut; partial restoration would not  be sufficient for the compilation of the international  bibliography of socio-cultural anthropology.
(45) Mr. VITO (Italy) was in favour of full restoration  of the cut.
(46) The Commission decided, by 15 votes to 14, with
15 abstentions, in favour of the restoration of the sum  of $11,750,
(47) Mr. BURNS (New Zealand) thought that an amend-  ment to a proposal by the Director-General should be  made into a substantive motion, subject to a new vote.
(48) The CHAIRMAN said that the Commission was not   PROGRAMME COMMISSION v-12  yotitg on the global budget implications; the issue  would be reverted to when the totals were examined.
(40) Mr. MARQUIS (United States of America) undor-  . stood that the vote concerning the Cologne Institute  meant that the budget figure only was amended, with-  out prejudice to the Comminsion's wish to have the  Institute's administration thoroughly reviewed,
(60) Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) sug-  gested that the United States recommendation, if it  was accepted by the Programme Commission, should    be inserted in its entirety into the Commission's report  so that it might become a directive to the Director-  General and the Executive Board.
(51) Mr. VITO (italy) asked that the United States  recommendation be incorporated in the summary  record.  Agreed,  The meeiing rose at | p.m.  TWELFTH MEETING
21 November 1956, at 3,30 p,m.  Chairman: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)  ITEM 9.3 OF THE AGENDA: SOCIAL SCIENCES (continued)  (documents 90/8 and Addenda and Corrigende)  {1} Replying to a question from Mr. MARQUIS (United  States of America), the CHAIRMAN confirmed that,  at its previous meeting, the Commission had voted to  restore the original budget provision under paragraph
3.6 Social sciences and problems of international  understanding (paragraphe 110-135)
(3) Mrs, SCHLUETER-HERMKES (Federal Republic  of Germany) (Representative of the Executive Board)  said that the Board's recommendations regarding  resolution 3, 62 and project 3,621 would be found on  page 17 of document 9C/5 Addendum 1 (paragraphs
82 and 83).
(3) The CHAIRMAN sald that the Polish delegation  had submitted a draft resolution in connexion with  resolution 3. 62 (document 9C/DR/83),
(4) Mr, VITO (Italy) recalled the doubts, expressed  by many delegates at the eighth session of the General  Conference, about the use of thé term "international  understanding" in connexion with the section under  discussion. Thoue doubts had been allayed by the |  wording of the resolution, which had authorized the  Director -Géneral to make an objective study of the  means of promoting peaceful co-operation. Member  States had expected to receive from the Director-  General a report on the atudies he had made, but had  only received infor mation about the holding of some  disciplinary and interdisciplinary meetings which had  resulted in the making of two general suggestions,  namely: that a co-ordinated study should be made of  the various aspects of the historical evolution of the  concept of peaceful co-operation and of ths economic
358  relations between countries with different economic  and social atructure. With regard to the first sugges-  tion, he had the impression that all that was involved  was a definition of the term "peaceful co-operation”,  and the second concerned a topic which had been dis-  cussed by economists for a long time, Before agree-  ing to resolution 3, 62, authorizing the Director-  General to continue hig activities, it would be useful  to have information as to what those activities had  been. He hoped that the Secretariat would let Member  States have a document containing full information  about the studies made by the Director-General, to  enable them to express their views on the subject,  He then drew the attention of the Commission to para-  graph 129 of Corrigendum 1, in which the Department  proposed making certain material available to the  Department of Mass Communication for wider dissemi-  nation, and advised proceeding very cautiously with  any such project.
(5) Mr. BERTRAND (France) did not share Mr. Vito's  doubts and personally was entirely in favour of the  project. All sorts of preliminary work had already  been done on the subject of the proposed studies, in  some instances by representatives of particular dis-  ciplines or sometimes; as at the Conference held at  Geneva in July 1956, by représentatives of all branches  of the social sciences, He did not dispute that the  themes selected had been dealt with to some extent in  the past; the novelty lay in aranging for a joint study  of them by experts from both East and West, thereby  promoting the growth of international co-operation in  the sphere of the social sciénces.” ~~  In that connexion, it would be à good thing to arrange  meetings of young professors and students for the doc-  torate for the study of the topics {n question; the  younger generatiôn also should be anabled to take part  in the study, to the success of which they could make  a great contribution. By way of example he drew