tv-23 PROGRAMME  sympathetic’ manner before young people, so that  they could grow up in the fundamental understanding  that there weré no insuperable obstacles between  them,’ That was indeed the best wey to fulfil the aims  of Unesco,
(69) “The CHAIRMAN understood that the representa-  tive of the Difector-General would redraft the Work-  ing Party's resolution for consideration at another  meeting of the Commission,
(70) ‘Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) was  willing to prepare a new draft, but wanted further in-  formation about the Commission's wishes. Had the  Commission endorsed the proposal of the Japanese  delegate, which differed considerably from the    COMMISSION  existing wording? Mr, Thomas also asked the  United States delegate to clarify what he meant,
(71) Mr, HOPE (United States of America) would.  welcome a text combining the Working Party's reso-  lution and the Director-Genéral's representative's -  suggestions merely as a basis to facilitate discussion,
(72) The CHAIRMAN said that the Japanese delégate's  proposal would be considered in the nature of an -  amendment and would accordingly be dealt with atthe  appropriate stage.  x  The meeting rose at 1.10 p,m.  TWENTY - SECOND MEETING
27 November 1956, at 3 p,m.  Chairman: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)  ITEM 0.1 OF TRE AGENDA : EDUCATION (documents 9C/5 and  Addenda and Corrigenda)
(1) At thé invitation of the CHAIRMAN, Mr. GUITON  (Acting Director, Department of Education) commented  on thé main features of his Department's programme,  which were briefly ‘destribed in paragraphs (1a) to
(8b) of document 8C/5,' Corrigendum, 1, Part IL,  Chapter. 1." The ‘central theme of the programme was  education for international understanding, as was in-  dicated clearly by draft resolutions 1.81, 1.32, 1.51  and 1.61. .  The programme: included ‘four main’ planned ‘aicti-  vities in the' priority. areas defined by the General  Conférence at its previous session: thé major project  on’teacher training in Latin America; the maintenance  of thé two’ ve Fundamental Education Centres  (CREFAL ASFEC);. participation’ in the "East-  West" major project’: ‘education of Arab refugees in  Paléstine, Emergency, educational assistarice would  cost nearly half à million dollars if the ‘proposals  contéined in document 9C/5; Corrigendum 3, ‘concern-  ing Korea weré adopted, Finälly, appropriations to  a total of $388, 000 were provided for participation in  Member States! actiyit tes in various branches of  education.  Mr. Guiton wen’ di 10, say that there were three  major problems on which the Secretariat would be  glad to have the views ‘ot thé General Conference.  The first ‘concerned éducation for ‘international  understanding and co-operation. The new Proposed  Programme, - like that adapted at Montevideo, was  based on the principle that all activities undertsken  by Unesco to promote the extension or improvement  of school or out-of-school education, whether general    or specific, and whether applying to one nation or .  region only or to all Member States, ‘should be directed  towards thé development of intéinationa] understanding.  It was on the strength of that principle ‘that the Secre-  tariat had decided not to include in the Proposed Pro-  gramme any spécial section under thé heading of  "education for international understanding and co-  operation". ‘ In the previous programmie, that "Label"  had been applied only to a limited number of projects  dealing with schodi education, -Beveral times in the  course of the past ten years, educationists’ attending  Unesco meetings had objected to that label as being  restrictive, ‘and the Comimittee of Expérts convened  in 1954 to study the principles of éducation for ‘inter-  national understanding had recommended that tbe  extended to cover the whole of the Education pro-  gramme. The disappearance of that restrictive  label" had coincided with the intensification of °  Unesco's activities in that field, - Senttéred etivitios  affecting the teaching of certain specific sibjséts had  thus given way to a concerted ‘plan | under which the  whole of the school’ curriculum in éâch country was to  be directed towards int irnational understanding. In  that connexion, Mr, Guiton drew ‘attention to the ‘  Education chapter in document. 9C/5, paragraphs
88, 106-110, 120-126, After starting with sporadic  work on the improvement of schooi textbooks by bi-.  lateral ‘consultations, mainly affecting Europe, Unesco  had, over the past three’ years, béen carrying out’ s  programme, which took in the majority of Member.  States and constituted a prelude’ to the "East-West"  major project, on the treatment of Asta in Western  textbooks, and vice versa. After general discussions  held at eight international meetings of educationists,  Unesco had embarked on practical activities and had
426   PROGRAMME COMMISAION  initiated experiments in some hundred associated.  ‘schools, . with whose teachers and . pupils the Organi-  sation maintained, constant contact, . International |  # on adult education had been followed up since
5 1984 by national or regional seminars organised by  Member States with assistance from Unesco. Of the
24 such meetings in which Unesco had taken part in
1955-1956, at least 15 had studied various aspects  of adult education for: international. understanding.  Similarly, with respect to work with youth, Unesco  ‘now had a whole. network’ of: associated enterprises,  … many of which constituted. experiments in education  : for international understanding, : : ©: .  Once the general principle. had been accepted, the  problem of putting it into practice arose, Member  Btates had to recognize that the principle underlay all  Unesco's activities, including both the Participation  programme and the "planned activities". In other -  words, all aid supplied to Member States by Unesco  for educational purposes should be designed to further  international understanding and co-operation, .:  The second main problem was'that of fundamental  education,” on which the Working Party set up by the  Programme Commission had submitted an excellent  report, Certain delegations had expressed the  opinion that Unesco's efforts in that field were being  relaxed, but in fact, they had been substantially ex-  panded over the past few years. At the beginning of
1955, Unesco was supplying aid to two national funda-  mental education centres, in Liberia and Thailand; at  the end of 1956, it was participating in the work of  three more centres (Korea, India and Viet-Nam) and  was prepared to help four further Member States to  establish national centres (Brazil, Greece, Ethiopia  and Turkey), -*  - The third problem was that of adult education, as  regards which there were two schools of thought:  those who wished to focus Unesco's activities on the  education of workers; and those who wished tu extend  “them to cater for the whole of the adult population,  ~The new Proposed Programine reflectéd the second  ‘  af those trends; in pursuance of the decisions taken  by the General Conference it its previous sessions. *  There was also à general adult edcation” ‘programme  which went far beyond the activities listed in thé Edu-  cation chapter:’ ‘In that connexion; MF. Guiton' drew  the attention of délegates to paragiaph {80a of the  Education chapter in document 8C/5; Corrigeñdum 1.  Those activities as a whole had significasice only when  considered in ‘éomjunction with the work of thé Inter-  national Labour Organisation. ‘ - Irideed,’ general adult  education, which éamé under Unesco's prograinme,  was likely fo be successful only in conjunction with  technical and vocational training. ‘Finally,’ Unésco's  “efforts Ini the matter of general adult education should  be specifically’ directed towards the development of  international’ understanding and co-operation; ‘hence  ‘thé stress laid in'the draft programine’ \inder discus-  sion on ‘adult edudation within the East-West major.  foe ‘on the study of international problems, and  the spread of information about the ams’ and work  o the United Nations. ;  The Secretariat had decided to make no ‘provision in
1987-1988 tor ary méetings of the Consultative Com-  mitigé on Adult Education. Over the’ past years, that  Committee had ‘made many proposals ahd suggestions,  aiid means had still to be found of putting them info
421  the Education’ chapté     IV-22  practice in the Organisation's programme, Mr. Guiton  specially mentioned the » project fo establishing an inter -  national adult education centre; which the secretariat had  sofar been unable to incorporate into the programme, :.  My; Guiton then spoke’ of the’ heayy burden of work  falling on the Department‘ of Education in connexion  with the Technical Assistance programme and the  programme of Participation in Member States! :  activities; -at thé moment, that Department was tech-  nically responsible for the work of ‘some :220 experts,  and the figure would probably rise; in 1987, to 230 or
240. Abôut'15 programme specialists were kept busy  full-time drawing up the terms of réference of each  mission in consultation with the Meinber States con-  cerned, finding qualified candidates, briefing them,  and giving them the technical instructions which the  Secretariat undertook to provide. Document 9C/5  made no mention ot the work load in that respect.
(3) oi a point of order; Mr, SHEARMAN (United  Kingdoin) protested’ against the distribution of docu-  ment 9C/DR/4, which sppeared to be identical with  a document for which the Director-General had  apologized and which he had agreed to withdraw, In  any case; the Programme Commission did not seem  the appropriate body to consider such a document.
(3) The CHAIRMAN replied that document 9C/DR/4  had been placed béfore the Commission by mistake,  It had been replaced by document 8C/DR/4 Rev. which  the General Committee had referred to the plenary  Conference for consideration on the morning of  Friday, 30 November, ’
(4) Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) (Representative of  the Executive Board) stated that the Executive Board  had studied Unescols educational programme with  great care and had taken part in the preparation of  er, It had ‘devoted’ particular  attention to the reorientation of the’ programmes of  the Fundamental Education Centres for the Arab States  “and Latin ‘America (ASFEC and CREFAL).  appraisal mission had been sent to assess he work  of the Centres aftér five years of operation and a  special committee ¢ of the Board had studied the reports  of that mission, Thé essence of those reports and  of the Board's views thereon was to be found in para-  graphs 151 to 173 of the Education chapter of document
1.1 Co- -operation with International Organizations and  _ Institutions (paragraphe 9 9 to 32 and document % 20/DR/ 104)  thud:  vention’ ‘of Bauer 000, Le the saine ‘amount as. the Inter-  national Federation of Organiza ons ! for School Sor  respondence and Exchanges. (par pa agr 15). H  thought that organizations like the NEF, which had  done excellent work over à period of some 28 years,  deserved a larger subyéntion. than certain younger.  organizations. He therefore ‘proposed that its sub-  vention be raised to $5, 000.2 year.  Secondly, he proposed that the subvention to the ‘  World Confederation of ‘Organisations of the Teaching  Profession, which had been reduced, be raised to  the level of former years.       IV-22  Referring to the Unesco Institutes In Germany, he  thought that they should be used more extensively for  the study of specific problems not covered by Unescos  own programme, . He added that he feared that, con-  trary to the statement in paragraph 25, the inter-  national character of the Institutes was not ensured.
(6) Mr, FRANCOIS (France) intended to speak only  on the question of subventions. Firstly, he noted  that the subyention granted to the Hamburg Institute  had been increased, whereas that to the Qauting In-  stitute had been reduced, He was disturbed at -  that new indication of the policy of cutting appropria-  tions for youth activities, and asked why the two  Institutes, which had originally been on an equal  footing, were receiving different treatment; .  Re had also noticed a second case of differential  treatment which he thought regrettable; the subven-  tion to the Joint Committee of International Teachers!  Federations had been kept at the flat rate of $2,000,  whereas the $4, 000 subvention for the World Con--  federation of Organizations of the Teaching Profes-  sion was to be increased by §2, 000 (cf, document
8C/5, Corrigendum 4)., The French delegation  thought, it a pity that there should be two major world  organisations of the teaching- profession; but nego-  tiations were in progress which might lead to their  merging. It was regrettable that the Joint Commit-  tee, which had been established earlier, and had a  better chance of unifying the teaching profession,  should be treated as the poor relation,
(7) Mr. CALO (Italy) said the Italian delegation  thought in general That subventions should be replaced  by contracts, both as an economy measure and as a  better means of making sure how the money was  spent, The aid granted to beneficiary organizations  could be just as effective under the contract system.  Such a change of policy, however, could obviously  not be applied in the 1957-1958 financial period. The  Italian delegation fully endorsed the French delega-  tion's request that the Joint Committee and the World  Confederation be ‘treated alike, in the Interests both  of fairness and of furthering collaboration between  the two.  Mr. Calo thought the Hamburg Institute deserved  Unesco's respect. A precise definition of the form  its collaboration with Unesco was to take and of the  field of its activities should be worked out, As for  the Gauting Institute, the Italian delegation thought  it should be given all possible assistance.
(8) Mr. HACQUAERT (Beiglum) dréw the ‘attention  of members of the Commission to document 8c/5,  Addendum 2, which’ ‘contained thé Belgian’ comments  on the Proposed Programme. He merely’ ‘wished to  say that he regretted the cut in the subvention granted  to FIOCES, which was doing extremely useful work  in the matter of international school correspondence.  He fully’ supported’ the requests ‘made by the French  and Italian delegations on the subject of the subven-  tions to the Joint Committee of International Teachers!  Federations and the World Confederation of Organi-  zations of the Teaching ‘Profession, especially as  the Jatter had been asked to undertake surveys for,  Unesco. He also thought it regrettable that the sum  granted to the Gauting Institute was so small. He
428     PROGRAMME COMNISSION  was glad to note that ‘extra funds had been asked for  to cover specific studies in higher education (para-"  graph 27), buf was not in favour of the proposed -  amendments to the Secrétariat's projects in that tie,
(9) Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) ‘(Representative oA  the Executivé Board) said that the question of the -  three Institutes in’ Germany had been ‘the subject off  long discussions in the Executive Board,  A'special  Committee, consisting of Mr, During (Sweden), Mr;  Verniers (Belgium) and a United States specialist, -  had visited the Institutes and made certain suggestions,  On the basis of that Committee's findings and Informa-  tion supplied by the Gérman member of the Executive  Board,” the Board had adopted a resolution supporting  the Diréctor-General's proposals for 1957-1958, but  recommending that the situation be reviewed at the ‘  end of the two-year period,  As for the smaller grant to the Gauting Institute,  it had appeared to the Board that the Institute could  continue to operate for the timé being with a subven-  tion of $25,000. If its programme developed satis-  factorily, its allocation could be increased in 1959-
(10) Mr. GUITON (Acting Director, Department of -  Education), replying to the Indian delegate, said that,  in education, Unesco's policy with regard to sub-  ventions had so far been to restrict their number and  to keep them small, The Proposed Programme  under discussion contained only two exceptions to  that rule,  In the case of the World Confederation of Organiza-  tions of the Teaching Profession and the Joint Com-  mittee, the Secretariat had feit when drawing up the  Proposed Budget, that the programme of the former  offered more scope for collaboration with Unesco.  The Joint Committee was first and foremost a lialson  body. :  With regard to the Gauting Institute, the Secretariat  had acted on the recommendations of the committee of  inquiry set up by the Executive Board to investigate  the work of the Unesco Institutes in Germany, The  Gauting Institute had been reorganized, and its new  programme was a good one, but the Secretariat had  decided, for the moment at least, to uphold the con-  clusions of the committee of inquiry. :
(11) Mr. | SHEARMAN (United. Kingdom) asked when  the inspection of the Unesco Institute for Youth in  Gauting had taken place, Pointing « out that the In-  stitâte had a Director and a clear policy and was  not asking for more money, he ‘hoped that a more  sympathetic attitude towards it would be adopted.  Since its aim was to associate. the Jounger generation  with the main purposes for which Unesco stood, it .  deserved encouragement and assistance,  Mr. Shearman seconded the proposal of the delegate  of India to raise the subvention to the World Confedera-  tion of Organizations of the Teaching Profession to .  its former level,  He greatly regretted the absence from the lst in  document 8C/5 of a body which had previously bene-  fited from a small subvention, namely, the Interna-;  tional Federation of Workers! Educational Assocla-  tions, which had branches in many countries and had  always been an earnest and active advocate of the   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  principles to which Unesco was pledged, - As spokes-  man of oné of the Federation's member associations -  in the United Kingdom, Mr, Shearman had taken añ'  active part in the work of the committees during the  war which had paved fhe way for the establishment  of Unesco. The elimination of the small subvention  for the Federation had caused much disappointment  among its members and the trivial saving of $2,000  a year did not seem to be worthy of the directorship  of Unesco, Mr. Shearman therefore hoped that it  would be possible to rectify what he conaidered to be  a serious mistake, either by reinstating the subven-  tion, if technically possible, or by concluding a con-  tract with the Federation.
(12) Mr, ‘BENDER (Netherlands) (Representative of  the Executive Board) replied that the special com-  mittee had gone to Germany in the autumn of 1855 and  that the Director - General's proposal to allocate  $25, 000 to the Institute was based on the recommenda-  tions of that committee. He added that the situation  might have changed since 1855, but, in any case, no  request for a larger sum had been received from the  Institute.
(13) Mr, LUND (Sweden) wished to comment on the  Education chapter as a whole. He emphasized the  importance of securing the goodwill and collaboration  of teachers in all Unesco's Member States. In his  own country, no group of people had given the National  Commission greater support than teachers and pupils  in schools of all grades, As already stated, there  were 5,000 subscribers to the Unesco "Courier" in  Sweden, where the publication was considered to be  of a high standard,  The Education” programme for 1957-1958, consisting  of well-established services which had, in the past,  been in the hands of a very competent person, had met  with general approval in Sweden. . However, on  reading the various addenda and corrigenda to  document 9C/5, Mr. Lund had had the uneasy feeling  that some questions were being dealt with in a some-  what haphazard way. It was important to secure a  ‘proper balance between the various parts of ‘thé Édu-  cation programme. Under "Education out of School",  there was general agreement that fundamental educa-  tion should have priority, and thé Swedish Government  and National Commission were ready to‘subscribe to  the programme under that head, which made a valuable  contribution to undérdeveloped countries.  Adult education, or workers! education, on the other  hand, did rot seem to have been given {he | importance  which it deservéd, ‘The same ‘applied to work with  youth, Unesco could not ‘continue to maintain those  parts of the programme “at such a low level; it should  be rémembered that, wherever such sctivities had  been developed, ’ they had fostered a feeling of respon-  sibility towards society and had formed a firm founda-  tion for real democracy. The éurrent’ policy of the  Department of Education would riot lead to those bene-  ficial results. Adult education had been severely cut  in Corrigendum 1, although some activities had been  restored'in Corrigendum 4. ‘It appeared that the Con-  sultative Committeé on Adult Education was to cease  to exist, Mr. Lund had heard, among delegates at  the Conference, much criticism of the Education  Department and of the Director-General for their
429     IV-22  apparent lack of interest in adult edication, In the  plenary Conference, the Director-General had stated  that what was henceforth heeded in ‘adult education was  not advice, but money. Yet, whef trying to follow the  ups and downs of Unesco's policy in adult education,  the impression obtained was that the Director-General  badly needed advice, ‘The Swedish delegation accord-  ingly recommended that the Director-General seek  sound advice and work out a consistent policy in that  field.  Turning to the question of subventions, Mr, Lund  seconded the remarks made about the World Con-  federation of Organizations of the Teaching Profession  and proposed that its subvention be raised to $8,000  a year.
(14) Mr. GIVENS {United States of America), while  appreciating the Director-General's reasons for  reducing the subvention to the Youth Institute in Gauting,  pointed out that "it had a new Diréétor and was moving  forward on the lines advocated by the special committee.  Thus, although he would propose no amendment for the  time being, he hoped that the Director-General would  do his utmost to use the Institute, and thought that the  possibility of increasing its subvention at some future  date should be borne in mind,  Secondly, Mr. Givens supported the proposal to in-  crease the subvention to the World Confederation of  Organizations of the Teaching Profession, which was  the spokesman of teachers all over the world on  matters of general interest to the teaching profession,
(15) Referring to paragraph 18, Mr. BEEBY (New  Zealand) stated that his delegation supported the sub-  vention of $14,000 for the International Association  of Universities, but with some reservations as far as  the future was concerned. It was certainly an ex-  tremely important organization, but its importance  should be measured in terms of how far it could become  self-supporting, Universities were not generally  poverty-stricken bodies and, after a period of ten  years (i.e, in 1959-1960), there should be some  tapering off of its subvention. It was not Unesco's  business to maintain such organizations indefinitely  and it should give notice that its support was not per-  manent and would be reduced after ten years, Mr,  Beeby wished to know the amount of the Association's  total budget, |  With regard to paragraph 20, the New Zealand dele-  gation would support the proposal to increase the sub-  vention to the World Confederation of Organizations of  the Teaching Profession. In the past, Unesco had had  too little contact with the teaching profession and it had  been very difficult to persuade the organizations to  form a single group, The WCOTP had come nearer  to that goal than any other organization, It was a  body with a budget of some $45, 000, in addition to the  subvention from Unesco. As it was prepared to use  that subvention entirely for programme purposes, it  was worthy of Unesco's fullest support.  (i8) Referring to paragraph 18, Mr. AVIDOR (Israel)  considered it wrong that the Joint Committee of Inter-  national Téachers' Federations should use Unesco's  subventions for administrative and organizational costs.  Following the example of the World Organization for  Early Childhood Education, organizations should use
1V-23  Unesco's subventions.to cover part of thé cost of  regular activities relating to Unesco's programme, -  The total budget of the Joint Committee of Interna-  tionai Teachers! Federations was $2,500 à year, of.  which Unesco paid 80 per cent, i.e, $2,000, That  was entirely wrong: Unesco's subvention should not  exceed the total funds derived from other sources,  even if such’ funds ‘amounted only to $500 for example.  As Unesco's mesgage could best be brought to the  masses by the teachers in every country, Mr, Avidor  warmly supported the Swedish proposal to raise the  subvention to the World Confederation of Crganiza-  tions of the Teaching Profession to $8, 000 a year.  an Mr, MATIC (Yugoslavia) agreed with the com-  ments of the previous speakers on the Unesco In-  stitutes in Germany, . National Commissions were  very badly informed about the work of those Institutes.  There was no doubt that they were doing or could do  very useful work, -but National Commissions should  be informed of their programmes in advance, so as to  be able to subrait their suggestions, The Yugoslay  delegation thought that the question of changing the  composition of the Governing Boards of those Insti-  tutes to include representatives of a larger number  of countries should be considered.
(18) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) recalled that the Joint  Committee of International Teacher's Federations {n-  corporated three major organizations, to which  millions of teachers belonged. It was, moreoever,  a purely professional organization. Since 1948, it  had been making a very useful contribution toUnesco's  work: reports on education for international under-  standing in school syllabuses, studies on teaching  about human rights; etc. Mr. François emphasized  that the French delegation had proposed an amendment  to the work plan for that section, and asked for a  separate vote to be taken on each of the proposed  subventions.
(19) Mr: ZIMIN- (Union. of Soviet soétalist ‘Repüblies)  supported the request of the Frerich arid Italian dele- -  gations for a fairer distribution of subventions to the  Joint Committee and the World Confederation. The  former was to receive only $2, 000, ‘ the latter $8, 000  in all, which in no way corresponded to the rélativé  importance of the work those two organizations were  doing throughout the world. Whilst it would be wrong  to cut the subvention granted to thé World Contedera-  tion, the aid'to the Joint Committee should be in-  creased in view of the fact that the aid granted would  benefit the three very active member organizations  of that Committee,  The Soviet delegation’ thought the’ Gauting Institute  could do very useful work for’ ‘youth, and should there-  fore be provided with the necessary resources. for .  full-scalé activities, -  General and the Executive Board should give delegates  details of the new programme jist prepared. Why,  incidentally, since the survey on the Institutes in  Germany had beén made in 1955, had the necessary  measures to énable them to function smoothly not yet  been taken? That was a matter which apparently  needed going into more thoroughly, and the Soviet  delegation hoped the Director-General would furnish  Member States with ail the information necessary to  PROGRAMME  At the same time, the Director-  COMMISSION
430  give them a clear picture of the possibilities and the  usefulness of the Unesco Institutes in Germany, Mr,  Zimin supported the Yugoslav delegation's proposal  concerning the need for keeping Member States mare  fully informed through National Commissions,
(20) Mr. THOMAS (As sistant Director General) sald  that the question of the’ three: Unesco ‘Institutes’ in  Germany was one which the Exécutive Board had dis-  cussed often and af length. 5 The’ ‘report of the çém-  mittee of inquiry sét up by' the Board had ‘shown that  it was imposaible fo put all three on thé sarne footing.  The crisis through which thé Gauting Institile had”  passed had only recently been ‘évercôme; the’ new  Director had taken up his duties a few months p re.  viously, and a new programme ‘had bee ‘drawn up snd  apprôved. - Nevertheless’ it still seemiéd too early to  increase the subvention originally granted to t haf In  stitute, The ‘experts appointed by the Executive’ :  Board had recomméndéd that the Gauting ‘Institute ÿ pay  less attention {o the exchange of information and coq  centrate on providing a meeting- place for educationists  and leaders of youth movements. It would probably  soon be possible, on the basis of the initial results  of that experiment, to assess what progress the In-  stitute could be expected t o make. In conclusion, Mr.  Thomas emphasized that the amount of the subventions  to the Institutes had been fixed not arbitrarily, but  after mature reflection,
(21) Mr. SOEBROTO (indénésla) pointed out that,  for the past ten years, Unesco had spent a great deal  of money on all forms of edication uridér the level  of higher education. He was ‘ther éfore glad to note  the new projéct, in paragraph 217, concerning specific  studies in higher éducation. ' Unfortunately,” the pro-  posed budgetary provision of ‘$10, 000 for each year  was inadequate and he hoped that it ‘would be raised,  as many goyérnments were still cérisolidating their  higher education systems and sending professors - and  students abroad, so that they ‘could help to develop  that form of education on their ‘return home. A  proposal to increase the amount for contracts in  paragraph 28 was contained in document 9C/DR/104,  a graft resolution submitted jointly by the delegations  of Austria, Indoñèsié and’ Italy, Although the resolu-  tion had been received | too late, Mr. Soebroto hoped  that the proposal to increase the amount to $15, 000  & year would be taken into account.
(22) Mr. KUYPERS (Belgiüm) ‘thought ‘the Acting  Director of the Department ‘of Education had given -  a very able defence of the general policy of keeping  subventions dow; but he said nothing about the  cuts in certain ‘subventions, including that to FIOCES.  The importance of the work done by that organisation  in facilitating contacts between schoolchildren and  students over the ‘world was well known. “The  Belgian delegation was not asking for that subvention  to be increased, but merely for, it to be maintained at  the existing level. Mr. Kuypers explained that the  fact that FIOCES operated on a budget so small as  possibly to suggest that it was necessarily inefficient  or inactive was due to the substantial voluntary assis-  tance it received.
(23) Mr. EKANAYAKA (Ceylon) warmly supported the   PROGRAMME OOMMISSION  al to increase the subvention to the World  Confederation of Organizations of the Teaching Pro-  fession, which was one of the few organizations that  really exercised an influence on teachers and schools  in Ceylon.
(34) Mr, OITTINEN (Finland) regretted that the pro-  posed budget for education was so unfavourable to  adult and workers! education, and warmly supported  the remarks on the subject made by the delegates of  the United Kingdom and Sweden, Finland was con-  vinced that adult education, in its general and non-  vocational forms, was very important from the'point  of view of international co-operation: The Inter-  national Federation of Workers! Educational Associa-  tions, whose strongest natioñal branches were in the  United Kingdom, the United States of America and  the Scandinavian countries, had widened its member-  ship considerably in recent years and had members  in countries of Asia and Africa. It was thus very  important that Unesco should support the Federa-  tion's activities, and the Finnish delegation hoped  that the Secretariat would find a way to restore the  subvention which had been discontinued.
(35) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) supported those who  had spoken in favour uf increasing the subvention to  the World Confederation of Orgunizations ‘of the Teach-  ing Profession. The WCOTP had striven hard to  co-operate with Unesco since 1952 and had rapidly  extended its membership to cover parts of the world  consideréd remote. Unesco should not concentrate  its interest on budgetarily powerful organizations, but  should also take dué account of horizontally powerful  organizations, that was to say, organizations repre-  senting a very wide section of the public. * The  WCOTP represented teachers in all parts of the world,  including Africa, from kindergarten teachers to  university professors. It recognized the needs of  the masses in all countries and its aims were iden-  tical with those of Unesco,
(26) Mr. ZEISSL (Austria) sécu. iad the remarks  of the delegate of Belgium ‘regarding tid Interriational  Federation of Organizations for School ‘Correspon:  dence dnd Exchangés: ‘As Chairman ôf the Austrian  National Commission which sponsored the national  branch of FIOCES, Mr. Zeissl had many opportunities  to appreciate the work done by the Federation, If  it did not exist,’ Unésco would be obliged to do the  work itself at grèdter cost, -  "Me. Zeiss) also strongly supported the remarks  of the delegate of Indoriesia oni the subject of assis-  tance to universitiés and draft résolution 8C/DR/104,  In his opinion, $18, 090's yor. was the minlinum which  Unesco should devote to universities, which were  like sensitive instruments registering all changes in  the moral and’ intellectual spheres. The atmosphere  of universities was thus full of problems, to the  solution of which it was Unesco's duty to contribute,  Sscondly, Mr, Zeiss! rtatod that, as the Director-  General had raised the estimates for projects 1,511  and 6.411, the Austrian delegation withdrew its draft  resolution 0C/DR/38.   (37) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) com-  pared the subventions programme to a house of
1v-22  cards, Despite ‘all the care expended by the Executive  Board and the Director-General on building it, few  delegates thought it properly balanced, The Brasilian  delegation was also in favour of an increase in the aub-  vention to the World Confederation of Organisations  of the Teaching Profession, to which the Brazilian  Education Association was affiliated, The growing  importance of its work in Latin America was fully  recognized in that part of the world.
(28) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark) stated that the annual  budget of the International Association’ of Universities  was approximately $50, 000 to $60, 000, Mr. Baugniet,  who was the President of the Association, would be  able to give more accurate information. The IAU  carried out much work which would otherwise fall  to Unesco, and it would not be cheaper for Unesco  to undertake such work itself. Mr, Nielsen was  anxious that the Commission should not, by a rash  decision, tie the hands of the Director-General, but  should carefully weigh the services rendered by the  IAU to Unesco,
(29) Mr. STEWART (Canada) seconded the proposal  to raise the subvention to the World Confederation of  Organizations of the Teaching Profession.
(30) Mr. VITO (Italy) seconding the remarks of the  delegates of Indonesia and Austria on the subject of  co-operation with universities, was surprised that  an organization like Unesco should so neglect the  sphere of higher education. There were certain very  specific university problems which were not dealt  with by any bodies and which Unesco should study.  Mr. Vito quoted, by way of example, the following  problems; the rôle of the classics (including  Sanskrit in Indian universities) in the education of the  young; the relationship between technical and ordinary  universities; and methods of attracting students to  faculties covering fields in which specialists were  needed. Mr. Vito was not at all against the conclu-  sion of contracts with the IAU, instead of the granting  of increased subventions. Hé believed that Unesco  would benefit greatly from contracts with the LAU.
(31) My. GUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education) regretted that he could not give the New  Zealand delegate detailed information about the finan-  clai resources of the organizations to which it was  proposed to grant subventions. The observer from  the World Confederation of Organizations of the  Teaching Profession had said that his organization's  budget for the current year was $45, 000 to  $50, 000.  Mr, Guiton said he had followed the debate with keen  interest: it was in fact the first time a Commission  of the General Conference had proposed so many in-  creases in subventions. The Secretariat noted that  fact, and would be grateful if the Commission would  indicate whether it was to be taken as indicating a  tendency to be followed in preparing future pro-  grammes and budgets.  The meeting rose at 5,30 p.m