IV-15  should be made available to other countries. If,  however, better or more complete collections existed  elsewhere, his delegation would be quite ready to  withdraw its proposal,
(74) My, TERROU (France) wanted to point out that  the publication of the collection had a legitimate place  in the work being done in general on press and allied  legislation, It was really the duty of national centres  to devote themselves to the study of the statute-law,  and even the case-law, on information, since there  was no jurist in the world who as yet had that essential  international documentation available to him. It  might not be hest to begin with film censorship, but  it was desirable to rely on the national centres to  undertake, jointly with the appropriate national  bodies, a comprehensive study of the law on the matter.
(75) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) suggested that, to  make sure that the compilation of the laws in question  was kept permanently up to date, Unesco publish it -  as with other digests - in the form of a loose-leaf  volume,
(76) Mr. FKANAYAKA (Ceylon) thought that the    PROGRAMME COMMISSION  question of censorship laws was very important and  announced that his delegation would support the German  proposal if the Secretariat considered it useful,
(77) Mr, BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) asked Mr, Gjesdal  whether, if the Belgian proposal for the publication of  a loose-leaf collection were adopted, his Department  would have the necessary staff to see that it was kept  permanently up to date,
(78) Mr, GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) replied that the Department could not  undertake more work without additional staff and funds,
(78) After some further discussion, Mr. REIMERS  (Federal Republic of Germany) said that, in makingits  proposal, the German delegation had not realized that  the financial burden for Unesco would be as heavy as  indicated by Mr, Gjesdal. He would therefore with-  draw the proposal in document 8C/DR/9, merely sug-  gesting that the Secretariat explore ways of makingthe  collection concerned available to Unesco's Member  States,  The meeting rose at 6.45 p,m.  FIFTEENTH MEETING
23 November 1956, at 9 a.m,  Chairman: Mr, BULAJIC (Yugoslavia)  ITEM 9.3 OF THE AGENDA: MASS COMMUNICATION (continued)  (documents 90/5 and Addenda and Corrigenda, documents $C/DR/23,
5.3 Public Information and Promotion of Inter-  national Understanding (paragraphs 83 to 138)
(1) The CHAIRMAN opened the discissfon on section
5.3 of the Mass Communication programme, He  pointéd out that there were no PRG documents con-  nected with that chaptér, but that à number of reso-  lutions would be introduced by delégations at thé appro-  priate points. Those resolutions were: 9C/DR/39  (Austria), 45(Yugoslavia), 88 (Czechoslovakia), 105  (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics), 21, 24, 25  (France), 50 (Argentina) and 70 (Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics), with the amendment proposed by  the United States delegation and left over from theday  before.
(2): Mr. GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Uammunication) stressed that greater help to the  press, radio and films by means of material on Unesco  would secure greater public support. Feature type  illustrated articles for large "house-organs" - a  service organized after a survey of the recipients,
376     particularly of the provincial press - had been very  well received; the reaction would be a guide to Mass  Communication!s future activities. The Increased  distribution to radio systems of raw material for use  in their own way had also had a very favourable recep-  tion.  At Montevideo the question of thé "Courier" had:  been referred to a working party, which had recom-  mended a drive for more subscriptions, : The maga-  zine was devoted to analysing Unebco's problems;  most fields were covered but more particularly  natural sciences and information oñ the United Nations  family. The readers of the "Courier" came from many  walks of life; one-third of them were teachérs - a  special contact area, Its circulation, in three  languages, was now 86,000 copies as compared with
50, 000 two years before; 70, 000 copies were pald  for as against 21,000'in 1954 - an increase from 42  to 81 per cent, Handling costs had naturally gone  up in proportion, as shown in a special paper prè-  pared by the Director-General, Document 9C/5  contained a preliminary proposal for a Russian-lah-  guage edition of the "Courier". Mr. Gjesdal was  glad to be able to report that a definite agreement had  been reached with the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics! National Commission for the publication   PROGRAMME  in February 1957 of an initial edition of 20, 000 copies.  Negotiations were being carried on for an Arabic  edition.  The "Chronicle" was à more experimental publica-  tion; its circulation had reached 10, 000 copies and was  not expected to rise much higher.
(9) Mrs, BIRD (Canada) wondered if, to save time,  the Chairman could not indicate by some sign that a  speaker was exceeding the suggested five-minute time-  limit,  {4} Mr, BOGDANOVIC (Yugoslavia) said that the  Yugoslav delégation had submitted the draft resolution  concerning the organization of a conference of rep-  resentatives of national associations.of journalists  because of the essential part which journalists could  and should play in bringing the different peoples closer  together, As many delegates had emphasized, Unesco  had not yet made the necessary appeal to the general  public, and the adoption of the East-West major pro-  ject would make such contacts even more desirable,  The measures contemplated by the Director-General  for that purpose were admittedly useful, but the  Yugoslav delegation believed that the active co-opera-  tion of journalists would make Unesco's task easier,  and help to consolidate world peace and democratic  relations among the various countries, Discussions  to that end had already taken place between the  National Federation of Yugoslav journalists and  journalists! associations in Brazil, India, Italy and  Japan.
(5) Mr, ANAS (Afghanistan) stressed the lasting value  of "Unesco Features’ and of the "Courier" articles,  He asked if the Organization could perhaps issue bound  collections of its yearly publications, together with an  index; a small extra expenditure would thus preserve  the results of Mass Communication's efforts.
(8) Mr. NAPOLITANO (Italy) thought that the  Yugoslav proposal would help to solve the problem of  developing international understanding through the  free flow of information, and he waa prepared to sup-  port it. He wished to point out, however, that  national associations of journalists were already  grouped in international organizations, such as the  International Presa Institute in Zurich, the Interna-  tional Federation of Newspaper Proprietors and  Fditors in Paris, the International Federation of  Journalists in Brussels, the International Oryaniza-  tion of Journalists in Prague , the International Federa-  tion of the Periodical Press in Paris, and a tew other  international organizations of the specialized prèss,  It therefore seemed essential that Unesco should first  of all consult with those organizations on the possibi-  lity of holding the confereñce proposed by the Yugostav  - delegation, especially as the problem of the rôle and  place of journalists was among those which such inter-  national organizations were called upon to study.  With regard to the Yugosliv delegate's last remark,  Mr, Napolitano seid that, to his Imowledge, the  Italian Press Federation had taken no decision on the  organization of a world conference of Journalists.  (M Mr.Vo-VAN-LUA (Viet-Nam) wished to comment  on thé proposed resolution 5,33. Document 9C/5
377  COMMIFSION IV-15  provided for the discontinuance of the Unesco Coupon  Schemes, whilst according to Co-rigendum 1, the sys-  tem was to be maintained, The Yiet-Namese delegation  was in favour of maintaining the Unesco Coupon Schemes,  but wished to point out that they were of help mainly to  countries having readily usable currencies at their dis-  posal, The Viet-Namese National Commission had  great difficulty in procuring the French francs required  for payment of the coupons and had had to suspend their  sale, Mr. Vo-Van-Lua suggested that the Commission  recommend that the Conference decide that countries  might make part of their payments in their national  currency.
(8) Mr. NAPOLITANO (Italy), raising à point of order,  asked the Chairman to direct the discussion so that it  should not wander over a variety of proposals,
(9) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that section 5.3 was  divided into four parts - press, visual media, radio  and public laison - which could be considered in that  order. A single resolution dealt with the whole of  section 5, 3, but perhaps the draft resolutions before  the Commission might be dealt with first, beginning  with the Yugostav one (document 9C/DR/45).  Draft resolution 8c/DR/45
(10) ‘Mr, HARDY (United States of America) was very  pleased by the scheme to train journalists, but he had  some doubts about the resolution in document 9C/DR/45  because an unplanned activity raised questions of un-  planned disposal of resources; he would have preferred  the substance of the resolution to bé incorporated in the  established programme, It was an error to state that  all countries had national associations of journalists.  Finally he thought that any work plan pertaining to the  excellent Unesco programme should have the help of  national agencies and other non-governmental  organizations,
(11) Mr, TERROU (France) stated that the French  delegation was sympathetic to the idea behind the  Yugoslav proposal but, like the Italian delegation,  believed that it would be difficult to call a world con-  ference of journalists regardless of existing inter-  national organizations of journalists. Members of that  profession were sometimes easily offended, and it  would be better to ask the Director-General to consult  international press and journalistic bodies on the desir-  ability of holding such a conference and to recommend  that they give favourable consideration to the idea. The  Yugoslav draft resolution should therefore be amended  on those lines.
(12) Mr. REIMERS (Fedéral Republic of Germany)  stated that the German delégation agreed with the com-  ments made by the delegates of France and the United  States of America, although it was also in full agree-  ment with the intentions and aims of the Yugoslav  resolution,
(13) Mr. UNAKOV (Union of Soviét Soclalist Republics)  said that, in the opinion of the ‘Soviet delegation, the  Yugoslav resolution was perfectly receivable, There  was every reason for the Commission to approve both  the spirit and the content of the resolution, which was   IV-16  perfectly in line with the principles laid down in the  Unesco Constitution, Mr, Unakov pointed out that,  in document 9C/PRG/16; which contained recommenda-  tions to Member States concerning measures to pro-  mote thé iva flow of informatid:j- there was a pro-  posed Conference resolution recalling, among other  things, that the free flow af information and ideas was  one of the fundamental objectives of Unesco. The  draft resolution submitted by the Yugoslav delegation  specified that the organization of a conference of  journalists would be a means of helping to improve in-  ternational understanding, which was also one of  Unesco's essential objectives,  Mr, Unakov did not believe that such a conference  would be counter to the interests of international  journalists! associations; for Unesco, which was  qualified to co-ordinate the activities of the various  international organizations working in the sphere with  which it was concernéd, could certainly invite repres-  entatives of those international organizations of  journalists to take part in the Conference.  Furthermore, Mr. Unakov did not think thatthe adop-  tion of the draft resolution would involve too great a  dissipation of financial resources, as the delegate sf  the United States of America feared. The budgetary  appropriation requested was only $10,000,
(14) Mr. TSUDA (Japan) agreed with the Italian and  United States comments. More than'100 editors in  Japan were members of the International Press  Institute, and the Japan Newspaper Publishers! Asso-  ciation, which consisted of 112 newspaper publishers  and heads of radio broadcasting organizations, was a  member of the "Fédération internationale des Fditeurs  de Journaux", There was no journalists! organiza-  tion to represent Japanese reporters, editors and pub-  lishers other than the Japan Newspaper Publishers  and Fditors' Association,
(15) Sir Richard BOYER (Australia) had no objection  to formulate against the spirit of the Yugoslav reso-  lution. Bringing Unesco's successes before the world  was, indeed, very important, but the press was orga-  nized at two levels - working journalists and policy -  makers - and he did not think that bringing together  members of the first group would achieve the desired  result, while the second group had a well-known dis-  like for International organizations and outside inter-  ference. However, they were the people whose good-  will was essential and the best means of securing it  should be sought by Unesco,
(16) Mr. BRONIAREK (Poland) was in complete agree-  ment with the Yugoslav resolution. International  meetings were held in all professional activities - why  not in the press?  Obstaclés to such an undertaking  did exist but they could be removed. | He agreed with  the tenor of the United States delegate's remarks but  did not share his fears, and was in favour of convening  a conference of existing national associations,
(17) Mr. NAPOLITANO (Italy) felt sure that, if the  Commission recommended the conference, the agenda  of the meeting would not be difficult to draw up.
(18) . Sir Richard BOYER (Aüstralia) pointed out that  the proposal was not to change the structure of the
378     PROGRAMME COMMISSION  press, A conference of national or international  assoclations of publishers could also be convened,
(19) Mr, BOGDANOVIC (Yugoslavia) replied to certain  observations just made. .  He explained that his delegation's proposal emphasized  the rote of national associations because some of the  latter did not belong to any international association,  It was not, however, intended to prevent international  bodies from taking part.  Replying to the French delegate, Mr. Bogdanovic  pointed out that the draft resolution asked the Director-  General not to convene, but to organize a conference,  There was, moreover, no reason to fear that Unesco,  in organizing such a meeting, might be suspected of  wishing to set up an international organization for  journalism; Such a body could be formed only by  journalists themselves, The only object was to pro-  mote contacts among journalists and to show them what  assistance they could give Unesco,  In reply to a remark from the Italian delegate, Mr,  Bogdanovic explained that he had merely stated that  there had been some exchanges of views between the  Italian journalists! organization and the National Federa-  tion of Yugoslav Journalists. Even if certain States  had no national journalists' organization, the Yugoslav  resolution was so worded as to enable journalists from  those countries to be invited to attend the conference.
(20) Mr. KISELEV (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic) said that his delegation would vote for the  draft resolution, which was in line with Unesco'sideals  and aims. It would not be enough to approve the spirit  of the resolution and ignore those parts of it that con-  cerned problems of organization; for no pessibility of  seeing that the immense force of journalism played iis  part in strengthening the ties among the peoples should  be neglected,
(21) Miss FIELD (United Kingdom) moved that the Com-  mission was in full agreement with the principles under-  lying the Yugoslav resolution, but that it requested the  Director-General to examine the possibility of imple-  menting the suggestion it contained.
(22) Mrs. BIRD (Canada) supported the Australian point  of view, as the project tabled by Yugoslavia had not been  sufficiently thought out. She thought the United Kingdom  motion was the wisest solution,
(23) Mr. GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) drew atténtion to the $10, 000 budget  increase for assistance to National Commissions, which  appeared on page 6 of document 9C/5 Corrigendum 4.  Unesco desired maximum contacts with journalists and  editors; the proposed confereiice might be useful if  its agenda was prepared well in advance by suitable -  initial consultations. He was puzzled, however, by  the source of the mandate referred to in the first pars-  graph of draft resolution 8C/DR/45. He added thatthe  Director-General had received a report on the Helsinki  meeting, held the previous August, of the Committee for  co-operation between journalists; the meeting had en-  dorsed the Mass Communication programme and had  requested Unesco to convene a special conference of  journalists which, undoubtedly, would improve co-  operation between them and Unesco.   PROGRAMME COMMISBION
(34) Mr, TERROU (France) doubted whether it would  be practically possible, within the limits of the budget  proposed, to invite all the national organizations of  all countries to take part in the Conference, Healso  thought that the associations could not be compelled  to take part in the éonference, as they would consent  to do so only if they had been consulted beforehand,  From that point of view, the failure of the conference  would be more scrious than not convening it at all,  He hoped that the Yugoslav proposal would be revised  to provide for preliminary consultations with the  associations concerned,
(25) Mr. BOGDANOVIC (Yugoslavia) saw no need to  amend the text proposed by hie delegation; in his  opinion, the word "organize" implied that preliminary  consultations would take place in order that the con-  ference might be convened in the most favourable  circumstances, Referring to the report of the con-  ference of journalists in Helsinki, he pointed out that  the proposal mentioned in the report was not related  to the proposal made by the Yugoslav delegation to  the ninth session of the General Conference of Unesco.  If the principle of the draft resolution in document
9C/DR/45 was approved, the Director-General would  be responsible for organizing the conference in such  a way as to ensure its success,
(26) Mr, ANAS (Afghanistan) noted that all delegations  agreed with the principle of the Yugoslav resolution -  the only differences were practical, It seemed that  the organization of the conference needed more time  to inquire into its feasibility and agenda. He there-  fore proposed that the resolution be revised by Yugo-  slavia in the light of the delegates! comments and  presented to the General Conference at its next  session,
(37) Mrs. SAUNTE (Denmark) supported the proposal  of the delegate of Afghanistan,
(28) Mr. BOGDANOVIC (Yugoslavia) said that his  delegation accepted the amendment proposed by the  United Kingdom delegate.
(29) Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) mentioned to the Yugoslav  delegate the previous experience of the Inter-American  Press Association, which held annual congresses  attended by newspaper editors in the American repub-  les. That experience might be taken into account in  connexion with the proposal under discussion, It was  the editor of a newspaper who, in the last resort,  directed its system of propaganda, and he asked the  Conference not to confine itself to bringing journalists  together; newspaper managers and editors should  also be Invited. He also asked that the international  associations concerned be considered, in addition to  national associations. $
(30) Mr. HARDY (United States of America) was a  little confused; the United Kingdom had proposed an  amendment; two delegates had suggested a recon-  sideration of the Yugoslav resolution; and the dele-  gate of Yugoslavia had accepted the United Kingdom  amendment. Mr, Hardy was not quite clear whether  the Commission should vote on the resolution, the  amendment or the reconsideration of the resolution,
(31) Mr. REININK (Netherlands) did not think the  United Kingdom motion was an amendment; it was a  separate motion which should be voted on as such,
(32) Mr. ANAS (Afghanistan) did not insist on his  proposal and was ready to support the United Kingdom  amendment accepted by the delegate of Yugoslavia,
(33) Mrs, SAUNTE (Denmark) endorsed the view of  the delegate of the Netherlands.
(34) Mr, BOGDANOVIC (Yugoslavia) recalled that he  had accepted the amendment presented by the United  Kingdom delegation, What was essential was that the  principle of organizing a world conference of journalists  should be approved,  {35) Mr. NAPOLITANO (Italy) emphasized the need for  associating international organizations of journalists  with the preparations for the conference which, without  their co-operation, could only be a failure, He thought  that, if the Helsinki conference had put forward a sug-  gestion similar to the Yugoslav proposal, it might be  assumed that it would be possible to come to an agree-  ment with other international organizations of  journalists,
(36) Mr. UNAKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  understood that, although the Yugoslav delegate had  accepted the United Kingdom delegation's amendment,  some members of the Commission considered that the  United Kingdom motion was not an amendment, but a  new proposal, That did not seem logical to him, for  the United Kingdom motion had arisen out of the dis-  cussion which had taken place, and derived from the  Yugoslav resolution, He proposed that the Yugoslav  draft resolution be adopted, with the United Kingdom  amendment,
(37) At the request of the French delegate, Mr. OCHS  (Secretary) gave an improvised translation of the  United Kingdom motion, as follows: "La Commission  appule les principes formulés dans la résolution  présentée par la délégation yougoslave et, tout en le.r  donnant son plein appui, prend note de cette résolution  et invite le Directeur général à examiner la possibilité  de réunir une Conférence de journalistes de façon à  améliorer et À maintenir les bonnes relations qui  existent entre la presse et l'Unesco, ‘
(38) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) felt that the motion was a  separate resolution, the aim of which was to establish  close contact between the press and Unesco, whereas  the Yugoslav proposal was more general in character  and approached the matter rather from the professional  angle,
(39) Mr. GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) pointed out that the United Kingdom  motion could possibly be prefaced by extracts from  the Yugoslav resolution, The question of its financial  implications would be dealt with after a vote on the  resolution.
(40) Mr. UNAKOYV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  had hoped that the United Kingdom delegate would clarify  the discussion by stating her motion more clearly and   IV-18 PROGRAMME  indicating whather she considered that she was pre-  senting an amendment or a separate resolution, He  asked that the United Kingdom motion be distributed  in writing to the members of the Commission,
(41) Miss FIELD (United Kingdom) explained that  her motion, supported by Canada, had been to "take  note" of the whole of the Yugoslav resolution with  approval, and ask the Director-General to consider  how it could be implemented without antagonizing the  press,
(42) Sir Richard BOYER (Australia) stressed that  the United Kingdom amendment had been accepted by  Yugoslavia; the resolution was, therefore, the only  motion before the Commission and he thought it  should be voted on immediately. :
(43) The CHAIRMAN ased whether the United King-  dom delegation's motion included the granting of the  $10, 000 allocation.
(44) Miss FIFLD (United Kingdom) said that it did if  it was a consequence of the Yugoslav resolution.
(45) Sir Richard BOYER (Australia) thought that the  spirit of the United Kingdom motion was to take note  of the Yugoslav resolution's intentions without dealing  with the financial implications involved until it had  been possible for the Commission to examine them.
(46) Miss FIELD (United Kingdom) agreed that it was  difficult to vote the allocation until the scope of the  proposed conference was known.
(47) Mr. GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) stressed that, if the allocation was  voted, it would be possible to organize the conference  in 1957; if it was not voted, there could be no such  conference until 1959.
(48) Mr. REININK (Netherlands) pressed for a vote  on the United Kingdom motion, to be followed by  another vote on the financial issue,
(49) Mr. BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombid) said that, if  the United Kingdom motion were accepted, it would be  necessary to give up voting on the allocation of  $10, 000 mentioned in the proposal, If the Director-  General was to be made responsible for studying the  matter, he would also have to study the cost of the  proposal; the sum mentioned appeared to him to be  very small for delegates! travelling expenses. He  asked the Director-General to give an approximate  estimate of the cost at the next session of the General  Conference,
(50) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) sug-  gested that the Commission should vote first of-all  on the United Kingdom delegation!s proposal, in order  to show its opinion on the principle involved. Com-  menting on the Colombian delegate's obsérvations, he  sald that he thought it impossible, for the moment, to  give full detailed budget estimatés for the conference  of journalists, The Commission could, however,  decide to adopt the budget proposed by the Yugoslav  delegation and Instruct the Director-General toreport  COMMISSION -
350  to the Executive Board, which was responsible for  the execution of the programme, if he reached the  conclusion that such a conference was feasible.
(51) Mr. UNAKOV (Union of Soviet Soctallst Republics)  thanked the Assistant Director-General for his explana-  tions, However, after the United Kingdom delegate's  last remarks, he did not consider that the United King.  dom motion constituted a new, separate proposal; and  he wondered whether it would not be contrary to the  Rules of Procedure to vote on that motion before it  bad been dist ributed in writing to the delegates.
(52) The CHAIRMAN stated that the United Kingdom  motion would be distributed in writing and a vote on it  would be taken later.
(53) Sir Richard BOYER (Australia) suggested taking  a vote to find out if the Commission was or was aot  prepared to vote on the motion.
(54) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) read out  paragraphs 4 and 5 of Rule 78 of the Rules of Py-ocedure of  the General Conference, the text of which was as follows;  "4, As a general rule, no draft resolution shall be  discussed or put to the vote unless copies of it have  been circulated in the working languages to all dele-  gations not later than the day preceding the meeting,
5, Notwithstanding the provisions of the foregoing  paragraph, the President may permit the discussion  and consideration of amendments 10 substantive motions,  and of substitute motions or procedural motions, with-  out previous circulation of copies.”
(55) Mr. HARDY (United States of America) asked  whether it would not be simpler to vote on taking note  of the Yugoslav resolution without any action on its  budgetary implications,
(56) Mr. ANAS (Afghanistan) asked the Yugoslav dele-  gation to reconsider its resolution in the light of the  United Kingdom motion and to submit a new draft to  the Commission,
(57) The Commission decided to defer action on the  Yugoslav resolution until the text of the United Kingdom  amendment had besn circulated, as proposed by the  Chairman.
(58) Mr, BOGDANOVIC (Yugoslavia) said that, since  he had accepted thé United Kingdom motion as an  amendment to his delegation's draft resolution, he saw  no reason why dréft resolution 8C/DR/45 should notbe  revised to crnform to that amendment.  Draft resolution 9C/DR/105
(59) At the Chairman's request, Mr. OCHS (Secretary)  stated that the draft resolution which the Programme  Commission had next to discuss was to be found in  document 9C/DR/105 and concerned the publication of  a Russian-language edition of the "Courier", Thedraft  was presented by the delegation of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics,
(60) Mr, GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) declared that the proposal contained  f   PROGRAMME COMMISSION IV-16  in draft resolution 9C/DR/105 had been accepted by  the Director-General and had been incorporated in  the plans of the Department.  on Draft resolution 9C/DR/105 was approved by the  Commission,  Draft resolution 9C/DR/39
(62) Mr. OCHS (Secretary) sald that the next draft  resolution was contained in document 8C/DR/39, It  was presented by the Austrian delegation and referred  to "Unesco Nachrichten,
(63) Mr, ZEISSL (Austria) said that the Austrian  Ministry of Education and National Commission had  been surprised that the publication of "Unesco  Nechrichten*had been discontinued, Draft resolution
9C/DR/39 was a consequence of that step, It contained  two recommendations to the Director-General: (1) to  re-examine the decisio: and to reconsider the possi-  bility of continuing the publication of "Unesco  Nachrichten'; and (2) to study the possibility of grant-  ing a wider place to the German language in the pub-  lications of Unesco. He assured the Commission that  no nationalistic motives lurked hehind the carefully  worded Austrian resolution; it was merely a step  towards giving the German language the position it  deserved.
(64) Mr, RICHNER (Switzerland) said that the Swiss  delegation supported the Austrian proposal and em-  phasized that it would be regrettable for Unescots  only German-language publication to be discontinued.  He hoped that the Department of Mass Communication  would study the possibility of publishing a German  edition of the "Courier",
(65) Mr, GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) pointed out that the production of  Unesco documents in languages other than those af the  Organization could be undertaken on a very limited  scale only, but the Department was publishing in as  many languages as it could and would try to do better  still, "Unesco Nachrichten" had been discontinued  because it was rather expensive and not quite in  accord with the general publications policy, Dis-  cussions were continuing with Austria, Germany and  Switzerland, and positive results were expected for a  German edition of the "Courier",
(66) Mr. NAPOLITANO (italy) supported Mr.Gjesdal's  proposal, He asked that consideration be given to  . the possibility of offering Unesco publications in  Italian to the 60, 000, 000 people who spoke Italian  throughout the world. .
(67) Mr. MARSABAN (Indonesia) said that, when  the language question was raised, it should be  approached on the basis of the number of people who  spoke a given language; but publications in languages  other than the official ones should nat be financed  entirely by the Organization.
(68) Mr. ZFISSL (Austria) fully appreciated the  -difficulties the Department of Mass Communication  "had to contend with, but the question he had raised
381     was not one of a new publication, * His plea was for  the resumption of a service which had been discon-  tinued, He suggested that the resolution might be  altered to say "to reconsider the continuation of  ‘Unesco Nachrichten! or some similar publication",
(69) Mr. FKANAYAKA (Ceylon) did not wish to object  to the Austrian proposal but drew attention to the word-  ing of the resolution; the Asian countries could make  the same request on the same grounds, If the "Courter"  could be published in German, why should not Unesco  give a subvention to Asian countries for a similar pub-  lication? He added that permission to use some of  the "Courler"!s excellent photographs of Buddhist Art  had been refused by Unesco.
(70) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) thought that the problem  was of interest to all countries where the working  languages of Unesco were not in use. In order to  provide for wider circulation of the “Courier”, the  Organization might give Member States, and especially  National Commissions, assistance in having that maga-  zine translated into their national languages. Such  assistance should be included in the Aid to Member  States programme; and if the budget of that programme  were sufficiently augmented, the difficult linguistic  problem involved would easily be solved, thanks to  the National Commissions,
(71) Mr, QJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) declared that the policy of helping  National Commissions had been implemented by the  publication of "Unesco Dienst", a large part of whose  cost was borne by Germany, by several budgetary  increases, and by increased allocations for the transla-  tion of Unesco publications, whereas the cost of "Unesco  Nachrichten' was met by Unesco alone.
(72) Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) re-  called that in Chapter 7 of the Proposed Programme  and Budget, entitled "General Resolutions, " resolution
1,12, paragraph (E), provided that the Director-  General should promote thé translation and adaptation  of Unesco publications and documents, by means of  contracts, on the responsibility of National Commissions,  The sum allocated for that purpose had been $30, 000  for 1955-1856; document 9C/5 proposed $40, 000 for
1957-1958, and the Executive Board had suggested  raising that sum to $50,000, It was clear; therefore,  that the Director-General and the Secretariat were  actively interested in such work by National Commis-  sions, However, until the Commission reached  Chapter 7 in its deliberations, it would be well to bear  in mind that the proposal under discussion would be  less costly, since it merely involved the adaptation  of information material intended for the press.
(73) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote draft resolution
9C/DR/39, with the slight amendment proposed by  Austria, whose delegate wished to add "... in the  light of financial possibilities after the words  “similar publications",
(74) The Austrian résolution, 9C/DR/39, as amended,  was approved.
1v-18 PROGRAMME  Draft resolution 9C/DR/24
(15) Mr. OCHS (Secretary) said that the draft resolu-  tion to be considered next by the Programme Com-  mission would be found in document 9C/DR/24, It  was presented by the French delegation, which  desired to change the title to "Travelling Exhibition",  instead of "Travelling Exhibition of Photographs,"
(76) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) said that the aim of  the draft resolution was to give the Director-General  and, in particular, the Department of Mass Communi-  cation the means to fultil their task and play the part  to which all the speakers had atiributed great impor-  tance in the work of publicizing Unesco's activities,  The exhibition material provided for in paragraph 89  under (B), which included posters and other material  to be produced in large quantities, was not sufficient  for a good travelling exhibition, and too modest in its  conception, Whenever Unesco presented its exhibi-  tions - which were excellent and proved very success-  ful, especially in France - on Léonardo da Vinci or on  scientific subjects, it would be desirable that addi-  tional sums should be provided to enable the Depart-  ment of Mass Communication to present, by way of  introduction, material illustrating Unesco's activities  in general, and showing why such exhibitions were  organized, Such an illustrated introduction could  also be used for exhibitions of Unesco publications.  In that way, the Department of Mass Communication  would be able to take advantage of the opportunities  offered by the other programme Departments in order  to publicize the aims and activities of the Organization.
(77) Mr, BURNS (New Zealand) was in favour of such  exhibitions, but he thought that the $20, 000 needed  could be more effectively utilized in producing master-  copies of tilmstrips on international understanding  and cultural matters for the use of schools. Exhibi-  tions did not have the same measure of impact and  he would therefore vote against resolution 9C/DR/24.
(78) Mr, UNAKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) said that his delegation was greatly in-  terested in the French proposal but wished to make a  few remarks on it. It would be well for Mr. Bruns-  vick to specify the programme of the travelling ex-  hibitions, their content and their purpose, In view  of the importance of that means of familiarizing the  masses with the culture and civilization of other  countries, information on those points might set at  rest the fears of certain delegates. The Soviet dele-  gation was not in favour of the New Zealand delegate's  suggestion, as it thought that the sum of $25,000  would be quite insufficient to produce films; thatwas  a separate problem, Mr, Unakov concluded by say-  ing that he supported the French delegetion's draft  resolution,
(79) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) would liké to support  the resolution but feared that its implementation would  be too costly. Moreover, the task of providing addi-  tional information was rather one for the National  Commissions. With regard to what Mr, Brunsvick  had-said about art exhibitions like that on the work of  Leonardo da Vinci, he thought that such exhibitions  were extremely useful and should not be criticized.    COMMISSION
(80) Mr, BRUNSVICK: (France) pointed out that,  far from criticizing art exhibitions, he had, on the  contrary, spoken of the great success they had enjoyed,  The French delegation was much in favour of organizing  such exhibitions, which did credit to the Department of  Cultural Activities and were one of the Organization's  most successful achievements.
(81) Mr, TUNCEL (Turkey) regretied that he had  misunderstood that part of Mr. Brunsvick's earlier  remarks, and concluded by repeating that the proposed  travelling exhibition would be too costly and that the  task of providing additional information should fall to  the National Commissions.
(82) Mr, BURNS (New Zealand) wished to make it clear  that he had spoken of filmstrips, not of films, The  former could be made at very low cost and Unesco was  well equipped to do it.
(83) Mr. HARDY (United States of America) would vote  against the resolution, firstly, because of its budgetary  implications and secondly, because it was a programme  item that could have been included in the programme -  after the National Commissions had studied and com-  mented on it.
(84) Miss FIELD (United Kingdom) agreed with Mr.  Hardy.
(85) Mr, GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) agreed that the French proposal was  a good one, but thought posters would be cheaper than  photographs, The plan had not been included in the  programme for budgetary reasons. Filmstrips were  mentioned in paragraph 96; they were a very effective  means of achieving the desired results,
(86) The French resolution, 9C/DR/24, was rejected  by 33 votes to 18, with 8 abstentions.  Draft resolution 9C/DR/23
(87) Mr. OCHS (Secretary) proposed that, before  closing the meeting, the Commission discuss document
9C/DR/23, presented by the French delegation, The  draft resolution had been submitted in connexion with  Project 5, 121, but the Secretariat thought that it could  be discussed nt the point reached in the Commission's  deliberations, Anothér proposal to be discussed was  to bé found in the observations submitted by the Second  Congress of the International Council for Fducatiom!  Films, in which thé Council asked for an annual sub-  vention of $5,000, expressed the view that the sums  provided for the production of films and filmstrips  were insufficient, and recommended the establishment  of fellowships in audio-visual techniques, for award to  nationals of underdeveloped countries.
(88) Mr. TFRROU (Frarice) said that the object of the  draft resolution was to promote exchanges of film  programmes and to remove the technical obstacles to  the successful conduct of that important activity in  the field of mass communication, to which attention  had been drawn by the international technical meeting  on films, held in Paris in 1955, and by that which had  just been held in Rome. The draft resolution was   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  purely technical in character, but was designed to  achieve the object indicated by all who had just spoken  on the subject,
(89) Miss FIELD (United Kingdom) thought the pro-  posal was admirable and she supported it, but in her  opinion the International Organization for Standardi-  gation should be consulted,
(80) Mr. TERROU (France) did not think that the  International Organization for Standardization would  have any objections to make, as it had been informed  of the proposal, which had been drawn up at the  express request of film techniclans.
(91) The draft resolution was supported by the dele-  gates of Fi Salvador and the Union of Soviet Soclalist  Republics.
(92) Mr, GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) stressed that the standardization of  films was very intricate; many diverse interests and  technical difficulties were involved and the Geneva  Institute should be left to settle the point. - In his  opinion $5,000 was far too modest a sum for carrying  out the proposed activity - $20, 000 or $25, 000 would  probably be needed, In reply to the delegate of  Australia, Mr. Gjesdal explained that the calculation  of the $5,000 had been made by France; the Secre-  tariat had a different opinion on the costs.
(83) Sir Richard BOYER (Australia) was disturbed;  The Director-General's check estimates should be    IV-16  communicated to the Commission immediately after  those contained in a proposal.
(94) The CHAIRMAN told Sir Richard Boyer that his  remark would be duly noted by the Secretariat.
(95) Mr, UNAKOY (Unlon of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lcs) found the draft resolution highly interesting;  but, in view of its complex technical character, he  suggested that Unesco enter into contact with the  International Organization for Standardization, which  could be made responsible for the work, The aim  would thus be achieved, Because of the technical  character of the proposal, the Soviet delegation would  abstain from voting.
(96) Mr, TERROU (France) was willing to concur in  that proposal if the Director of the Department would  give an assurance that the Secretariat was prepared  to establish contact with the International Organiza-  tion for Standardization in order that the necessary  studies might be undertaken by that body.
(97) Mr, GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass Com-  munication) stated thatthe International Organization  for Standardization would be consulted. Member States  had already been requested to assist that body.
(98) Mr. TERROU (France) sald that, in view of Mr.  Gjesdal's statement, the French delegation withdrew  its draft resolution.  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m,  SIXTEENTH MEETING
23 November 1956, at 3 p.m,  Chairman: Mr, ANAS (Afghanistan)  ITEM 98 OF THE AGENDA : MASS COMMUNICATION (continued)  (évéuments 9C/5 and Addenda and Corrigenda, documents 9C/DR/21,  % md 30)  Project 5,321: Press (paragraphs 67 to 93)  {1) Mr, BURNS (New Zealand) stated that, although  his delegation was in favour of full co-operation with  the press, it was not in favour of Increasing the staff  at Headquarters, It suggested that fuller use be  made of representatives of thé press in Paris. The  New Zeuland delegation thought that on-the-spot  coverage should be undertaken by reporters on the  spot from local néwspapers. With'a view to a  possible economy, the New Zeuland delegation sug-  gested that Unesco might itself undertake the analysis  of the world press, rather than conclude contracts  for the purpose.
383  With regard to publications, Mr, Burns said that,  in his country, the "Unesco Features" were very much  appreciated and the "Courier" was considered to be  one of Unesco's best achievements, As for the "Unesco  Chronicle", the proposal to produce it as a multitithed  document was welcomed. : A  Referring to paragraph 86, Mr, Burns asked if it  would be possible to reissue two pamphlets on,  nuclear energy which had already been distributed.  Further, Mr. Burns asked for information on para-  graph 88, because it was felt in New Zealand that, if  the reference book were intended primarily for  teachers, it should be produced by the Department of  Education; if, on the other hand, {t waa to be a  reference book, pure and simple, it should be pre-  pared by the United Nations.  {2) Replying to the delegate of New Zealand, Mr.