VIL-1  CHAPTER VII  NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE  FIRST MEETING
6 November 1956, at 4 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. MALLEA (Argentina)
(1) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL drew the attention of  delegates to document 9C/NOM/1, and especially to  section II concerning the procedure to be followed for  nominations and elections for the offices of President  and Vice-Presidents of the General Conference and  Chairmen of Commissions and Committees, He  requested the Committee to consider whether it might  be preferable, in future, to select candidates at a  private meeting,
(2) As no proposal.was put forward for the amend-  vient of tl:e procedure, it was agreed that the meetings  should continue to be public.  ELECTION OF CHAIRMAN AND VICE-CHAIRMAN
(3) The DIRECTOR -GENERAL reminded the meeting  that the Executive Board's proposals concerning the  offices to be filled were no more than recommenda-  tions and not binding où the Nominations Committee.  He called upon the Committee to elect its Chairman.
(4) Mr. MUDALIAR (India) (Chairman of the  Executive Board) annoütr:ed that the Board proposed  Mr. Mallea, Head of the Argentine delegation, for  that office.
(5) Mr. Mallea (Argentina) was elected and took the  Chair.
(6) The CHAIRMAN thanked the meeting, on his own  behalf and on behalf of his country, for the honour it  hed done him in appointing him Chairmen of the  Committee consisting of heads of delegations. He  proposed that the meeting elect its Vice-Chairman.
(7) Mr. CABOUAT (France) proposed Mr. Brockington]  Head of the Canadian delegation, for the Vice-Chair-  manship.
(8) ‘The proposal was seconded by Mr, ESTELRICH  (Spain).
(9) Mr. Brockington (Canada) was elected Vice-  Chairman.   (10) The VICE-CHAIRMAN thanked the Committee
665  for the honour it was doing his country in appointing  him to that office.  ITEM 4.1 OF THE AGENDA: ELECTIONS FOR THE POSTS OF  PRESIDENT AND VICE-PRESIDENTS OF THE GENERAL CUNF ERENCE
(11) Mr. MUDALIAR (india) (Chairman of the  Executive Board) presented the Executive Board's  proposal that Malauna Abul Kalam Azad, Head of the  Indian delegation, be nominated as President of the  General Conference.  {12) That proposal was adopted unanimously.
(13) Mr. MUDALIAR (India) (Chairman of the  Executive Board) announced the Board's recommenda -  tion that the heads of the delegations of the following  countries be nominated as Vice- Presidents of the  Conference: Brazil, Ecuador, France, Federal  Republic of Germany, Indonesia, Iran, Liberia,  Pakistan, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and  United States of America. .
(14) The recommendations were adopted without  discussion.  ITEM 4,2 OF TUE AGENDA: ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSIONS  AND COMMITTEES
(15) Mr. MUDALIAR (India) {Chairman of the  Executive Board) reminded the ‘meeting that three  committees had aireâdÿ met and électéd their officers -  the Committee on Reports of Member States, whose  Chairman was Dr. Klaus Ziegler (Austria); the  Credentials Committee, whose Chairman wae H,E,  Dr. Frantisek Kahuda (Czechoslovakia); and the  Headquarters Coimmittéé, whose Chairman was H,E.  Dr. C. Parra-Pereéz (Venezuela).  On behalf of the Board; he went on to present the  following nominations for the remaining posts:  Chairman of the Progrémme Commission: H.E.  Mrs. Alva Myrdal (Sweden):  Chairman of the Adminiiirative Commission: Mr.  Gardner Davies (Australia); .  Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget: Dr, Concepcifn Aguila (Philippines);  Chairman of the Legal Committee: H,E, Mr.  Akira Matsui (Japan).   vI-a
(16) Those proposals were adopted unanimously.
(17) The CHAIRMAN asked members to decide on  the dates of the Committee's forthcoming meetings,  He proposed Monday, 12 November for the nomination  of candidates for vacancies on the Executive Board,  and 1 December for the preparation of the list of  Member States to serve on the smaller committees  at the following session of the General  Conference .    NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
(18), In reply to Mr, ESTELRICH (Spain), the  " CHATRMAN stated that by 12 November the General  Conference would have decided whether or not the  membership of the Executive Board was to be  ‘increased,
(1 0) The Committee accordingly decided to accept the  datés proposed by the Chairman.  The meeting rose at 4,30 p.m  SECOND MEETING
13 November 1956, at 3 p.m,  Chairman: Mr. MALLEA (Argentina)  NOMINATIONS FOR ELECTIONS TO THE EXECUTIVE BOARD  (documents 9C/NOM/ 2-31, 9C/NOM/ 2 Rey. and aC/13)
(1) The CHAIRMAN, ‘after opening the meeting,  announced that the General Conterence had approved,  the amendments to the Constitution and the Rules of  Procedure proposed by the Administrative Commission,  He alsodrew attention to paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 of  document 9C/13, dealing with the proposed amend-  ments to Article V of the Constitution, and said that  the members of the Committee had to: .  (a) bear in’ mind Rules 9%, 95 A and -30 of the Rules  of Procedure; .  (b) consider notinations for the 13 vacant seats on  the Exécutive Board; and ;,, _….  (c) take into consideration ‘the ‘principles laid down  in Article V.A.2 of the Cznstitution, which he read out.’  He then pointed out to the members of the Committee:  (a) that they would have to study document 9C/ NOM/A8  when considering the geographical distribution of the  members of the new Board,’ ds that document included  the names of previous and current members of the  Board ag well as those of the new candidates; .  . (b) that as the document referred to had been drawn  up early, Morocco and Tunisia were not’ mentioned  therein, and those two countries should therefore be  considered when à sholce was made for tho first  mentioned region;  (c).that, for the same’ reason; i ‘did not mention:  that the delegation of Israel ‘had withdrawn the. name  of Professor Lac Kohn and that the drain simendment  submitted by Liberia had not been accepted;
(4) that a nomination for the Western Hemisphere,  Professor Vicente Fatone (Argentina), had been  submitted.  All the above new factor's would have to be  . considered in connexion with the gecuraphical  distribution of members, .
(2) Mr. EL-ATTRACHE (Syria) sport that Syria  was withdrawing its candidate in favour of Iraq.
(3) Mr. CAILLET+BOIS (Argentina) said that, while  his country had intended to submit the name of  Professor Vicente Fatone, it had decided to withdraw  it in the interests of the solidarity and friendship cf  the countries of Latin America.
(4) Mr. BOURGEOIS (switzerland) asked whether the  action just announced by the Syrian delegate was in  conformity with the procedure laid down for elections  to the Executive Board. He inquired whether that  procedure allowed the withdrawal of a country's  candidate in favour of that of another country.
(5) The CHAIRMAN stated that there was no provision  to prevent the action of the Syrian delegate.
(6) Mr. McCLINTOCK (United States of America)  remarked that [3 perusal of the curricula vitee of the  candidates for election to the Executive Board showed  that each was eligible under the provisions of the  Constitution. He suggested, therefore, that the  Committee forward the list to the General Conference,  indicating that voting could take place immediately. |
(7) Mr, KAHUPA. (Czechoslovakia) thought the -  Member States of Central Europe, which included  Rumania and Bulgaria, should have at least two rep-  resentatives on the Board, In order to give those -  States the best possible chançe ‘of obtaining at least -  one seat on the Board, Czechoslovakia had decided,  in view of the large number of candidates; to withdraw  its own candidate in favour of the Polish ane. The …  Czechoslovak delegation therefore asked all those  who would aave voted for Mr, Pazur to vote for  Mr, Wierblowski instead,
(8) The CHAIRMAN aaked the United States delegate  whether his proposal was intended to close the dis- .  cussion, in which case it would be necessary to call -  speakers in accordance with the Rules of  - Procedure.