v-8 ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  had already been two ve Officers and the  original plan had been to Jo abolish the one who sided the  Director-General and his two Assistan ant Directors:  General. After such a proposal had been included in  document 9C/5, however, certain facts had ex merged,  Firstly, it had been decided that the officer tempor -  ily tn charge of publications should heed the |  Languages Division of the Documents and Publications  Service when the serving Chief of that Division retired  in the near future on account of the age-limit, The |  official concerned had also been made Secretary of |  the Publications Board, where he had proved #0 useful  that it had been decided to suppress the post of Execu-  tive Officer for publications by combining some of his  functions with those of the Head of the Languages Divi-  sion, The official concerned had been Secretary of  the Executive Board for many years and was thoroughly  familier with the policies and problems of the Orga-  nisation, Secondly, it had been discovered that it had  been a mistake to abolish the post of "Chef de Cabinet"  in the Office of the Director-General; Mr, Thomas  particularly had missed the presence of such an  officer. The post had therefore been restored, The  only other person whom it had been thought possible  to transfer to the post of Executive Ofticer for publica-  tions was appointed to another post and would not be  available. The feeling was that, with a "Chef de  Cabinet", it should be possible to dispense with the    services of an Executive Officer for publications; ons  of the latter's functions would be taken over by the  "Chef de Cabinet", namely, the general editing of the  Director-General's reports.
(46) Miss LAISE (United States of America) took it  that it was the General Conference's first opportunity  to review the Executive Bourd's approval of the esteb-  lishment of three posts at the level of Assistant Director-  General, Her delegation had understood that the Con-  ference was to be provided with a clear definition of |  the respective ts and rosponsibilities of the  officials concerned, While she was not questioning the  action taken, she considered that the Conference was  entitled to have full information on which to base its de-  cisions, From the report of the Executive Board she  saw that the revision of the Organization's Administra-  tive Manual, in which that information might be expected  to appear, had not been completed. It would therefore  be necessary to have a special report on the matter,
(47) The CHAIRMAN observed that the delegate of the  United States of America had raised a very important  point, on which full information was required. He  would ask the Director-General to supply that informa-  tion at the beginning of the afternocn.  The meeting rose at 1,5 p.m  FIFTH MEETING
8 November 1956, at 3, 30 p, m.  Chairman: Mr, DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 11. 2 OF THE AGENDA ; CONSIDERATION, ON THE REPORT :  OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD, OF PARTS 1 (GENERAL POLICY),  NI (GENERAL ADMINISTRATION) AND IV (COMMON SERVICES)  OF THE BUDGET ESTIMATES FOR 1957. 1938 (continued)  (documents 9C/5 and Corrigendum 1, 9C/5 Addendum 1, 9C/5 Addendum 3) .  PART IH —- GENERAL ADMINISTRATION (continued)  CHAPTER 1 -OFFICE OF THE IMRECTOR-GENFRAL (continued)
(1) In response to the request for information about  the division of responsibilities between the two  Assistant Diréctors-Genersl made by the United: States  delegate at the previous meeting, the DIRECTOR-  GENERAL informed the Commission that, after dis-  cussing the matter fully with the Executive Board at  its 42nd session in November; he had put a new system  into effect ‘on: January 1956. The latest information  in documentary form about the exact division of res-  ponaibility was contained in a Staff Information Letter  {the purpose of which was to keep staff merabers in-  formed about all matters relating to personnel and also
552     other matters «fl interest to them in their work), which  had been circulated to members of the staff on 16  January 1956. A copy of that letter ‘could be made  available to any delegate on ‘request. Paragraphs 4, 5  and 6 of that fetter dealt with the respective respon-  sibilities of the two Assistant Directors-General and  read as follows:  "4. Dr, Adiseshiah will bè ‘reaporisible for aiding  me in the’ co-ordination of thé programmes of Technical  Assistance and Ald to Member Statés, the development  of the major projects’ for 1957-1958, the supérvision  of the Social Science Centre for South Asia on the  Social Implications of Industriaiizatién, thé Regional  Fundamental Education Centrés (at Sirs-el-Layyan  and Patzcuaro), and in the co-ordination of the admini-  strative services (Bureau of Personnel and Manage-  ment, Bureau of the Comptroller, Bureau of Conference  Planning and General Services, Documents and Publica-  tions Service).
5. “rofessor Thomas will be responsible for aiding  me in the co-ordination of general activities, special  activities, the programme of publications, and the  activities authorized by general resolutions, except for   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION v-8  the items listed in the previous paragraph as assigned  to Mr. Adiseshiah.
6. Each Assistant Director-General will deal with  Member States and international organisations in re-  gard to matters assigned to him. The Bureau of  Programme and Budget, and the Division for Relations  with Member States and National Commissions and for  Relations with International Organisations will be at  their command, but will be administratively respon-  sible to the Director-General",  Since that letter had been circulated, Mr, Thomas  had been made responsible for the Headquarters  Office, under which came the Headquarters Committee  and the Committee of Art Advisers. If further infor -  mation was required, he was prepared to give it to  the Ad Roc Committee or to the Commission at a later  date, Up-to-date inforraation would be published in  the Administrative Manual,  It might be useful at the stage reached to give the  Commission some information about progress being  made with the Administrative Manus), He recalled  that he had restored the post of Assistant Chief of the  Bureau of Personnel and had made ths person appoin-  ted to that post responsible for the Manual, Unfor-  tunately, due partly to the shortage of personnel and  partly to certain other problems, such as deciding  how to proceed with the work, work had not kept up to  schedule, A P-3 assistant had recently been appoin-  ted, and progress was now being made, A short time  ago a further change had been made, namely, Mr,  Wilmot had been made responsible for supervising the  P-3 assistant, on the occasion of the transfer to another  poat of the Assistant Chief of the Bureau, The new  arrangement gave promise of success, Full jobdescrip-  tions of the two Assistant Directors-Gene ral would appear  in the Administrative Manual and would be reproduced  in the Proposed Programme and Budget for 1959-1960.  At the eighth session of the General Conference  (Montevideo) he had felt that the work of the Sacre-  tariat was inadequate because he had, himself, tried  to follow too closely the work of the Commissions,  He had therefore decided that, during the current ses-  sion, Mr, Thomas would represent him in the Pro-  gramme Commission, Mr, Adiseshiah in the Admini-  strative Commission, Mr. MaheW in the Committee  on Reports of Member States, and he himself would  then be free to go where he was needed, : Although  that delegation of responsibility might appear to be  inconsistent with the duties of the two Assistant -  Directors-General, he assured the Commision that,  because of frequent absences from Headquarters of  one or other of the three top executives, each one was  familiar with the work of the other two and was ina  position to make decisions on behalf of the Secretariat  on any question relating to the work of Unesco. Many  decisions were arrived at after consultation and most  of the important decisions were taken at meetings at  which the Directors of Departments and Bureaux were  present, In that way, it was possible to ensure that  administrative arrangements responded to the needs  of Departments for the proper implementation of their  programmes. The system worked well.
(2) Miss LAISE (United States of America), remark-  ing that the Director-General's explanation had been  helpful, asked that fuller {nformation should be  circulated even at the current session.
553     {3) The Administrative Commission adopted Chapter 1  of Part II,  {4) Before the discussion was contimed, Mr,  ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-Gengral) drew atten-  tion to document 9C/5 Addendum 3, which concerned  a proposal to establish an Arabic Section in the Buresu  of Relations with Member States,  The Directur-(General had made no recommendation  concerning the proposal, but was including it in the  Annex to document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1 with other  projects for which suggestions had been made by Mem-  ber States, If the Administrative Commission endorsed  the proposal, it wuuld have to recommend either the  raising of the budget ceiling or the making of cuta in  the proposed programme.
(6) The CHAIRMAN suggeated that, as the proposal  amounted to an amendment to th» proposed programme  and budget, it should be referred to the Ad Hoc Work-  ing Party for consideration.  Agreed,  PART IR — CHAPTER ¢ — BUREAU OF CONFERENCE  PLANNING AND GENERAL SERVICES
(6) The Administrative Commission adopted Chapter
4 without comment.  PART IV — COMMON SERVICES
(7) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  gave a brief introduction to Part IV. He drew atten-  tion to the fact that the estimates for the section on  rental and maintenance of premises had been based on  the supposition that the transfer to the new Head-  quarters would take place on 1 October 1957. He  understood that new information had been given to the  Headquarters Committee, which was planning to meet  in New Delhi and which would report to the Adminis-  trative Commission. If there was to be a change in  the date of removal, the estimates in section 4 would  have to be altered,
(8) Mr. CAMPBELL (New Zealand) asked for informa-  tion about the proposed use of the Château du Bois du  Rocher and for further details with regard to its main-  tenance costs.
(9) Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director - General)’  informed the Commission that the Châtéau had been  offered to the Director-General on favourable terms  and at small cost. The terms of the offer had been  carefully examined by the individual members of ‘the  Executive Board and by the Executive Board as a  whole and, after undertaking a careful legal scrutiny  of the future liabilities which acceptance of the offer  might involve, the Executive Board had authorized the  Director- -General to accept the offer.  The Chief of the Bureau of Conference Plinning and  General Services wuuld reply to the questions put by  the delegate of New Zealand.
(10) Mr, MONTAGNIER (Chief, Bureau of Conference  Planning and General Services) explained that a deed  had been drawn up in April 1956, whereby the owners  of the Château du Bois du Rocher had expressed their   v-8 ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  . intention of presenting to Unesco the castle, the furni-  ture in it, the othe! buildings belonging to it and the  land on which it s\vod, covering an area of some 27  acres. The inquiry held by the Secretariat gave the esti-  mated value of the gift as some $200,000 or $300,000.  Originally, the donors had specified that the purpose of  the gift was toplace at Unesco's disposal premises where  meetings and congresses might bé held, preferably con-  cerned with s¢ientific’ or social science questions, which  implied that Unesco would be precluded from installing  permanent offices in the mansion, Those conditions, had,  however, been relaxed in the final deed of gift, which  proyided that the mansion could, in case of need, be  used to house offices required for internatic.ial orga-  nizations that were particularly renowned for the  importance of their role in connexion with education,  science and culture. | .  Mr. Montagnier considered that the budget estimates  on page 103 of document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1 (para-  graphs 20(a) and 29(b)), relating to the maintenance of  the Château, were fairly accurate and that the expenses  in question would in fact not exceed $6,000 a year.  However, the Executive Board, at its 44th session,  had accepted the gift on a temporary basis only - for  four ysars, to be precise. The Organization was thus  definitely committed, in the first instance, for only  four years and at the expiry of that term could, in the  light of & new report by the Director-General, decide  whether finally to accept the gift or to return the man-  sion to its former owners.
(11) Referring to page 102 of document 8C/5 Corrigen-  dum 1, Mr, Nguyén-QUANG- TRINH (Viet-Nain)ex-  pressed suprise at the sums estimated under" Rental and  Maintenance of Premises" (namely $287,214 in 1957  and $240,961 in 1956). Since thé rémoval of the Sec-  retariat to the né building should normally do away  with the peyment of rént, the figüres in question should  be much lower than those for 1955 and 1956. Aétually,  the figure for 1957 was higher than for the preceding  years and the figure for 1958 was very little lower.
(13) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Chief, Bureau of Conference  Planning and General Services) explained that, for  the first nine months of 1957 Unesco would have to  contimie paying rent for the Aveme Kléber building,  the annex in the Rue Le Perouse and the warehouse at  Neuilly. The maintenance costs and expenditure on  utilities (coal, water and electricity) would also be  considerably higher at the new headquarters than at  the old.
(13) The CHAIRMAN well understood the surprise ex-  pressed by the delegate of Viet-Nam that the estimates  for maintenance alot in 1058 amounted to practically  the same as the total amount spent on rental and main-  tenance in 1855. He added that it should be remem-  bered, however, that there would bé expenditure for  maintenance of gardens and grounds at the new head-  quarters. ;
(14) Mr. Nguyen-QUANG-TRINH (Viet-Nam) empha-  sized that, if the figure of $287, 214 estimated for
1957 was explained by the fact that Unesco would have  to continue to pay rentals for à period of nine months,  it was difficult to understand how the budgèt estimates  for 1958 could amount to $240,961. Since, in 1958,
554     Unasco would no longer have rentals to pay, that  figure seemed, at first sight, surprising.
(15) Mr, MONTAGNIER (Chief, Bureau of Conference  Planning and General Services) was prepared to go  into details to satisfy the delegate of Viet-Nam.  He pointed out that under "Rental and maintenance  of premises’ there were four sub-headings, namely:
(1) Building rents.
(2) Maintenance of premises.
(3) Utilities.
(4) Maintenance of the Château du Bois du Rocher,  Under the héad "Building rents", Uneaco's expendi-  ture would be lower by only some $8, 000 than in 1956,  In 1958, although there would would be no rents to pay,  the Organization would still have to meet taxation  which, owing to the site chosen for the building of the  new headquarters, would amount to the rather large  sum of $10,333. ’  With regard to the {tem "Maintenance of premises",  paragraph 26, on page 103, showed the breakdown of  the estimates. ‘ Only the 1958 figure could be com:  pared with 1956, us the year 1957 was exceptional in  that, for two or three months of that year, the Orga-  nization would have to use both the Avenue Kléker  -building and the new headquarters. So far as mein-  tenance charges were concerned, the eatimates for
1958 were only some $5,000 higher than those under  the 1956 budget ($134, 626 instead of $119,036); and  that increase was accounted for in part by a recent  rise of 12 to 15 per éent in wages, which of course  . inevitably affected those payable to the staff of the  security and cleaning services, ' :  But it was mainly under the item "Utilities" that  Unesco's expenses would increase in 1957-1958, the  increase affecting especially éléctricity costs, ' The  amount of electricity used for lighting, air-conditioning  and current for machines of all sorts would, in fact,  be much greater at the new headquarters than in thé '  Avenue Kléber building, where the wiring and equip-  ment was antiquated. ‘The figures given for that item  in document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1 were the result of  estimates made by. specially appointed technicians.  Although their estimates had been prepared with the  utmost cace, the figures arrived at naturally remained  theoretical and it might perhaps be neceasary, in the  light of practical experience; to correct them to some  extent,  With regard to 1957,” Mr, Montagnier finally drew  the attention of the meeting to the fact that account  would have to be taken of the increase in the rents pay-  able for Unesco House and its annex, in relation to the  preceding years.
(16) Referring fo page 216 of document 9C/5, Mr.  DEBEAUVAIS (France) asked for particulars of the  modern language courses mentioned in paragraph 45.  He ihought that, if the courses were intended for the  general training of staff members, there should be com-  plementary courses on foreign civilizations, which would,  of course, lead to a considerabls increase in the appro-  priations under the "Staff training programme". ‘.*, on  the other hand, the courses were intended merely to  improve the professional qualifications of the staff,  Mr. Debeauvais would like to know whether the staff  attending them would in fact be ensbled to improve their  status or to claim certain material advantages. He   N  asked if there were a system of examinations to be  taken at the conclusion of the courses.
(17) Mr, FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) replying to the delegate of France, said  that the sum of $3,000 a year for staff training referred|  only to language training. Members of the staff taking  advantage of the training facilities paid an equivalent  amount, The total expenditure was therefore $6,000,  At the moment, 23 classes were held every week for  French, English, Spanish and Ruseian, which were  attended by a total of 187 staff members.
(18) Mr, DEBEAUVAIS (France) recalled that he  wished to know, also in connexion with the courses in  question, whether a system of examinations had been  instituted and whether the knowledge acquired qualified  staff members for any professional advancement,  {18) Mr, FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) replied that examinations were held once  a year and were conducted by outside examiners some-  times helped by qualified members of the staff. Those  who passed the examinations were entitled to receive  the language allowance provided for under the Staff  Regulations, Some became eligible for other posts.
(20) Mr, MUNRO (Australia), drawing attention to the  fact that it was proposed to replace all the motor  vehicles of the Organization in 1957, expressed the  opinion that it was better to stagger replacements of  that kind in order to avoid severe fluctuations in ex-  penditure from year to year,
(21) Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-Geueral)  replied that, in the normal course of events, such  replacements would be staggered. Due to unforeseen  expenditure incurred by the language services in 1955  and 1956, it hud been necessary to economize, and it  had been decided to postpone replacing vehicles until
1957 as' part of the economy,
(22) Mr, ARTHUR (United Kingdom) was not satisfied  that expenditure connected with the Chiteau du Bois  du Rocher would end at $6,000 a year. He asked  whether the estimated amount included the cost of  transferring equipment, installing microphones and  head- phones for interpretation; and transportation of  p Tonnel.. He further asked whether, if non-  governmental organizations were given office accom-  modation in the Château, rent would be charged and  whether any thought had been given to the type of |  meetings which could be held there. From the list of  meetings the Organization was planning to hold in 1957  and 1958, he could not find one for which it could be.  said that it would be more convenient to hold it outside  headquarters.
(23) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  replied that the Executive Board had had precise infor-  mation before it when it considered the question.  Document 44 EX/30 Addendum 1 contained a list of  meetings which could be held at the Château and Annex  II to that document contained a long list of meetings of  non-governmental organizations which might be held  there, Neither the Secretariat nor the Executive  Board had any doubts with regard to the usefulness of  the Château.
555  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION     v-5  There was a paper before the Executive Board at its  current session on the question of covering the costs  involved in holding meetings at the Château.
(24) The CHAIRMAN understood that, as the Executive  Board had approved the signature of the deed of gift,  the General Conference was not in a position to do any-  thing about it for 4 period of four years.
(25) Mr, McCLINTOCK (United States of America),  remarking that he was familiar with white elephants  and knew one when he saw it, was completely opposed  to the acceptance of the Château as another white  elephant if it could not serve a wholly useful purpose.  He asked whether the Executive Board hurd the authority  to sign deeds of gift without review by the Conference,
(26) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  referred to Article IX, 3 of the Constitution, which  authorized the Director-General; with the approval of  the Executive Board, to receive gifis. Article 7.2  of the Financial Regulations specified that the purpose  of such gifts should be "consistent with the policies,  aims and activitizs of the Organization", and autho-  rized the Director-General to accept them, even if  they involved financial liability for the Organization,  provided that he obtained the prior consent of the Execu-  tive Board.
(27) The Administrative Commission adopted Part IV,  subject to possible changes which might become neces-  sary in the light of the report of the Headquarters  Committee.
(28) At the suggestion of Mr, ‘ADISESHIAH (Assistant  Director-General), the Administrative Commission  agreed that, in order to save time, the Legal Com-  mittee should submit its report without preparing a  special document addressed to the Commission, pro-  vided that it had to make no modifications to the sub-  stance of its report.
(28) Mr, GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet ‘Socialist Rejub-  lies) hoped that the members of the Administrative  Commission would have an opportunity of going back  to the various points they had just béeri examining in  the presence of a representative of the Executive Board,
80 that they could ask him various questions, and, if  his replies opened up new aspects of any particular  quesiion, discuss it again. He wanted to know whether  that procedure would be in accordance with the Rules  of Procedure,
(30) “The ‘CHAIRMAN replied that the representative  of the Executive Board would be permitted to make a  statement if he so wished, and members of the Com-  mission would be able to ‘comment on that statement.  He sincerely hoped’ that no member of the Commis-  sion would wish to Feopen the debate on subjects which  had already been discussed.  He then drew the attention of the Commission to  document 9C/ADM/ PROV/1.
(31) The Administrative Commission noted document
9C/ADM/PROV/1 and agreed to consider it as part of  ita firut draft report.  The meeting rose at 5.20 p.m.