4 December 1956, at 3 p.m.  Chairman: Mra. MYRDAL (Sweden)  Draft resolution 9C/DR/83 Rev. 3 (continued)
(1) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  reminded the Commission that, thanks to the concili-  atory attitude of the Polish delegation, the resolution  had been revised several times. After pointing out  that paragraphs (a) and (b) should be renumbered
4 and 5 respectively, he proposed a slight amendment  to the beginning of the new paragraph 4, which would  then read "Invites Member States, within the  framework .... ninth session of the General  Conference, to initiate and encourage ..."
(3) Mr. ZULAWSKI{ Poland) accepted the amendment  proposed by the Assistant Director-General,
(3) Mr. SIH (China) stated that his delegation  considered the Polish resolution to be dangerous, as  the expression "peaceful coexistence" had not yet  been properly defined and was liable to lead to  misunderstanding. It was a torm that had already  been exploited by certain powerful countries which,  under the guise of "peaceful coexistence”, had  subjected their neighbours to peaceful extinction,  Secondly, the Chinese delegation could not endorse  the considerations in the preamble because, if  examined in detail, they really had nothing to do with  peaceful coexistence. Moreover, they did nut :  introduce any new element; all the cultural activities  mentioned were already covered by the major project  on mutual appreciation of Eastern and Western  cultural values. .  In conclusion, Mr, Sih said that his delegation could  not vote for the resolution unless its title were  changed to: “Development of mutual {or international)  understanding".  {4) The CHAIRMAN thought that there was some  misunderstanding, since the title of the revised  resolution read; "Contribution by Unesco to the  development of peaceful co-operation”.
(8) Mr. REIMERS (Federal Republic ¢£ Germany)  had followed the evolution of the Polish draft  resolution with grest interest and had come to the  . conclusion that, despite the varivua alterations made,  the substance remained the same. His delegation  was against involving Unesco in bilateral action; in  accordance with its universal mission, Unesco should  be concarned with multilateral, and not bilateral,  relations. ‘
(6) The CHAIRMAN failed to understand the German  delegation's objection, since, with the amendment  introduced by Mr. Thomas, the Director-General did  not enter into the fourth paragraph at all. It was a  question of an invitation to Member States.
(1) Mr. LEE (United States of America) stated that  the Polish resolution, as revised, was one which his  delegation could fully support, It expressed a thought  which was not entirely original, and confirmed  arrangements which were already largely in existence;  but it was valuable in that it gave Unesco an opportunity  to create mutual understanding and pesceful  co-operation between countries with differing economic,  social and educational systems, scientific institutions  and cultural traditions. The resolution thus paved the  way for activities conducive to real international  understanding. The United States delegation was  happy to acknowledge that, in the draft before the .  Commission, that principle was clearly and  uncontroversially stated,
(8) Mr, FRANCOIS (France) supported the Polish  resolution, which would encourage various countries  to develop the contacts which had been initiated  between them over the past two years or so, and thus  promote international understanding through the  strengthening of co-operation between them.
(8) Mr. MATIC (Yugoslavia) also supported the  resolution, the basic idea of which was in line with  Unesco's sims. The resolution fitted into the  Organization's programme for international under-  standing. It stressed bilateral relations and would,  in addition, stimulate National Commissions to seek  the most effective ways of co-operation. In that  connexion, Yugoslavia had already organized a number  of meetings in which representatives of both Eastern  and Western countries had taken part.  {10) Mr. ZIMIN (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics),  after expressing his delegation's appreciation of the  constructive resolution submitted by the Polish dele-  gation, said that he would support it whole-heartedly  as it corresponded exactly with the ideals of Unesco.  It stressed the development of bilateral relations,  besides measures designed to encourage exchanges  among Member States. He was happy to note that the  number of bilateral exchange agreements between  countries was increasing everywhere, and cited the  example of his own country, which was welcoming a  larger number of delegations of foreign visitors evury  year. An appeal launched by such an Organization as  Unesco would certainly be listened to.
(11) Mr. CONTI (Italy) felt that the resolution under  discussion had an object similar to that of the Zast-  West major project, in that it was concerned with  closer cultural relations between different ccantries.  But it differed from the major project in being  concerned with the economic and social aspects of life.  It obviously referred to Europe, where cultural unity  was already a reality. To encourage nations to   IV-37  understand one Another was the general aim of Unesco,  and his delegation therefore could not very well  understand the need for a special resolution, In the  matter of developing bilateral contacts, he thought it  would perhaps be better to leave responsibility to  Member States themselves, which would be likely to  discover the best raeans to emplay in each case. The  Italian delegation wondered whether the resolution was  opportune,  {13) Mr, KELLERMANN (United States of America)  associated himself with the opinion expressed by the  delegate of Italy. The resolution was not intended to  establish anything new, but it proclaimed à principle  and set tho signature of Unesco as a sympathetic  supporter of that principle, K laid down no specific  programmes or procedures and was not meant to  anticipate the initistive of any Member State, which  remained free to conclude such bilaterial arrange-  ments as it wished. The United States delegation was  therefore happy to support it.
(13) The Polish resolution in document 9C/DR/83  Rev. 3, as amended, was adopted by 34 votes to 5,  with 2 abstentions.
(14) The CHAIRMAN remarked that the resolution  would be included in the Programme Commission's  report.
(15) On behalf of the Polish delegation, Mr. ZULAWSKI  (Poland) expressed hig gratitude to all those who had  spoken in favour of the resolution. He was particu-  larly grateful to the United States delegation for its  attitude, which testified to a profound understanding  of present-day necessities.  OTHER BUSINESS
(16) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) said that, belore the  Commission began the examination of its draft report,  he would like the Sécretariat to give some explanations  on document 45 EX/12, which proposed amounts for  the subventions to be granted to various international  organizations identical with those suggested in  document 9C/5, without regard to the changes decided  on by the Commission,
(17) Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) (Representative of  the Executive Board) explainéd that such a document  was submitted regularly, because the organisations  concerned had to start work at the beginning of January  and needed some funds. The Director-General was  asking the Conference to approve the figures in  document 45 EX/12 provisionally, on the 'mderstanding
636     PROGRAMME COMMISSION  that the final figures would be approved by the  Executive Board at a later stage.  {18) A vote of thanks to the Chairman, moved by  Mr, FIKRY (Egypt), was unanimously adopted by  acclamation,
(19) The CHAIRMAN expressed her gratitude to all  members of the Commission for their kindness,  courtesy and co-operation.  Recalling what had already been said by the Rapport-  eur and Mr, Kemenov regarding the profusion of  documents and the need to improve the organization  of the work of the General Conference, she fully  agreed that the Conference's working methods were _  too cumbersome. As for the Programme Commission  itself, it was very important that, at future sessions,  time should be available for the expression of new  and constructive ideas and group thinking thereon.  At the current session, that process had been  excluded by the abundance of documents and the need  for haste,  In conclusion, the Chairman expressed her thanks  to the Vice-Chairman, the Secretariat, the inter-  preters and the minute-writers, who had all coatri-  buted to the successful conduct of the Commission's  business.  ADOPTION OF THE DRAFT REPORT OF THF PROGRAMME  COMMISSION (document 9C/PRO/PROV/5)
(20) The Commission then examined the draft report  {document 8C/PRG/PROV/6, submitted by the  Rapporteur, He and the Secretariat took note of a  number of corrections proposed by various delegations  and the Rapporteur was commissioned to incorporate  them into the report. The amended text would bear  the reference number 9C/25.
(21) The delegates then passed a vote of thanks to  the Rapporteur and Chairman,
(22) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  explained that document 9C/29, referred to by the  Soviet and Polish delegates, had not in fact been  examined by the Committee on Budget Adjustments,  in whose name it had been presented, But the  Secretariat, in drafting the appropriation resolution  had merely translated into figures the decisions of  that Committee. While it had not been possible to  submit document 9C/29, which had been produced  during the night of 3-4 December, to the Committee,  it was in conformity with the latter's decisions.  The meeting rose at 6.45 p.m,