14 November 1956, at 4 p.m,  Chairman; Mr. ZEISSL (Austria)
(1) The CHAIRMAN declared the meeting open and,  there being no quorum, announced that, in accordance  with the provisions of Rule 69 of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference, the meeting  would adjourn for ten minutes.  {The meeting adjourned for ten minutes.)
(2) There being still no quorum after that statutory  adjournment, the CHAIRMAN asked if all members  present would agree temporarily to waive paragraph
2 of Rule 69, as provided in paragraph 3 of that Rule.
(3) It was so agreed,  ITEM 17,9 OF THE AGENDA: PERIODIC REPORTS ON RUMAN  RIGHTS (Resolution 624 B (XXII) of the Economic and Social  Council) (continued) (document 9C/ 11)  CONSIDERATION OF THE COMMITTEE'S DEAFT REPORT
(4) The CHAIRMAN invited the Rapporteur to present  the Committee's second draft report, which related  to ite discussion of periodic reports on human rights.
(5) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) read out  the draft report, which for the time being existed only  in French and would be circulated later,
(6) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) in reply to a question from the United States  delegate about the procedure for submitting the  report, explained that it was the Economic and Social  Council which had, in its resolution 624 B (XXID,  requested that the first report on human rights should  cover the years 1054, 1955 and 1956, He proposed  that consideration of the draft report be deferred till  a later meeting, so that all the members of the  Committee might have the text of the report before  them. ; .
(7) The proposal of the representative of the  Director-General was adopted.  ITEM 17.2 OF THE AGENDA : RECOMMENDATIONS ON THE FORM  AND CONTENT OF THE REPORTS TO BE PRESENTED TO THE  GENERAL CONFERENCE AT ITS TENTH SESMON, AND ON THE  FURTHER DEVELOPMENT OF MEMBER 51 ATES' PARTICIPATION  IN THE PLANNING AND EXECUTION OF UNESCO'S PROGRAMME  (documents 9C/4 and Annexes I, [I and MI, 9C/REP/1, 9C/7)
(8) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director -  General) said that the General Conference decided at  each session what the form and content of the future  reports of Member States should be, and there had  been a sveady improvement in the presentation of the  reports in consequence. The matter fell within the
745  Committee's normal terms of reference; it was not  required to draft a detailed questionnaire, but to work  out a general plan for the reports,  The Committee might take as a basis for discussion  the overall plan given in the introduction to the  Reports of Member States (document 9C/4, pages 5  and 6), presented at the current session, together  with the last section of the report of the Committee  on Reports of Member States at the eighth session.  In addition, the Committee had just Gecided that the  next set of reports should include a section on human  rights. And, lastly, the Committee had asked the  Legal Committes for an opinion on whether the  General Conference could ask Member States for a  report on the implementation of conventions and  recommendations adopted by special international  conferences convened in pursuance of a resolution of  the General Conference, Member States were  required under the Constitution to report on the  action taken upon conventions adopted “v the General  Conference, but no provision was madé fo” conven-  tions adopted by special conferences, in pursuance of  a resolution of the General Conference, in other  circumstances. The finding of the Legal Committee  (document 8C/REP/1) had been that the Organization  could ask Member States for reports on the appli-  cation of conventions in the latter category, provided  it did so by means of a resolution adopted in plenary  meeting. It would be for the Committee to recom-  mend the adoption of such a resolution by the  Conference.  Such being the position, he suggested that the  Committee:
(1) Retain the first section of the existing plan -  general remarks on the Member State's collabo-  ration with the Organization; _
(2) Include, in à new section 2, sections 3 and 4  the existing plan, dealing with the machinery for the  Member State's collaboratica with the Organization:  the National Commission and the national branches  of international non-governmental organizations;
(3) Place, after those general sections, four others  dealing with particular fields of Unesco's activities:  Section 3. Education; Section 4. Science (suhdivided  into Natural Sciences and Social Sciences); Section 5.  Culture; Section 6, Mass Communication.  Each of the four latte. sections would be divided  into three sub- sections:  (a) Implementation of the resolutions in the Unesco  programme; .  {b) Report on the application of conventions .  prepared by the Organization and adopted by the  General Conference or by a conference convened in  pursuance of a resolution of the General Conference;  (c) Laws and regulations adopted by Member States  in the field of education, science and culture.  Lastly, he suggested there should be a special   X-11  section dealing with the implementation, in 1956, of  human rights falling within the Organization's purview  in all territories under the control of the Member  State concerned.  It should also be noted that the Executive Board had  submitted to the Genersl Conference a document
(8C/1, Annex 11) recommending the establishment, at  the next session, of à Committee on Reports, to  consider, on behalf of the General Conference, not  only the reports of Member States but also the report  of the Director-General. Should thé General Confer-  ence adopt that recommendation, it would be neces-  sary for the reports of Member States and the report  of the Director-General to be comparable. The plan  for the reports of Member States which he had  suggested would render them comparable.
(8) The CHAIRMAN opened the general discussion  on the suggestions put forward by the representative  of the Director-General concerning the form and  content of the reports.
(10) Mr, RONDUEN (Philippines), attending as an  observer, said thet, while his delegation was in full  agreement with the Jeneral outline suggested by the  Director-General's rupresentative, it would welcome  the inclusion of a heading under which Member States  would have the opportunity of referring to some of  the difficulties encountered by their National  Commissions in implementing the programme of  Unesco, which they were unable to meet within the  limitations of their resources.
(11) Mr, MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) thanked the Philippine délegate for having  raised that question. He pointed out that the report  of the Committee on Reports of Member States at the  eighth session had contained a recommendation on  the subject. The Committee could endorse the  suggestion slready made in 1986, namely that the  reports should deal not only with achievements but  also with failures, and should explain why certain  projects had not prospered.
(12) The CHAIRMAN wondered whether a reference  of that kind could be included in Section I.
(13) Mr. MAHEU (teprszsacativé of the Director-  Genéral) felt that the overall plan presented to  Member States might be followed by some directions  on how to draft the report, and that the suggestion  could be made there. Failures and difficulties in  carrying out the programme could be nzntioned  either under & special heading, or in each of the  sections on education, sc fence, culture and mass  communication individually.
(14) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) considered the plan  proposed by Mr. Maheu an excellent one, It made  the Committee's work much easier. As he saw it,  the plan fell into two main parts: an introductory  part, for the general reader, in which Member States  would report on their relations with the Organization  during the perlod under review, and in which mention  should be made of difficulties and failures; and a  sccond, technical part, intended for the Organization  itaelf, containing detailed information on the various
746  COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER BTATES  items in the programme, along the lines indicated by  Mr. Maheu. He proposed that the Committee adopt  the plan suggested by the representative of the  Director-General.
(15) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur)  aeconded the proposal, and asked that the text of the  plan be laid before the Committee in order that a  final decision might be taken upon it.  {16) Mr. UNAKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) supported the French delegate's proposal,  and approved in principle the plan suggested by  Mr. Maheu.
(17) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) wished, in addition, to  raise the question of the length of the reports. He  suggested that in future they should run to ten to  twenty typewritten pages, instead of five to fifteen.
(18) Mr, McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  commended the representative of the Director-  General on the outline he had submitted for the  Committee's consideration; it did indeed present  certain advantages over the previous plan, as set out  in document 9C/4, pages 5 and 6, in that it was more  precise. He was, however, unable to share the  optimistic view that an improvement in the plan would  automatically result in an improvement in the reports,  which could be of such value to the Director-General  in planning the Crganization's programme.  He would agree with the first two sections suggested  by the representative of the Director-General but  found some difficulty in accepting the new sections 3  to 6 he had proposed, As the Turkish delegate's  proposal would mean the adoption of the suggested  outline in its entirety, he believed it would be useful  for the Committee, at the juncturé reached, to discuss  the question more fully. Indeed, it would be desirable  to have a text of the proposals before any decision  were taken,  He would reiterate his delegation’ a full support of  the principle that Member States should be requested  to supply reports to the Director-General, as they  were of value not only to the Director-General in  planning his programme but also to the General Con-  ference in assessing thé implementation of Unesco's  programme, and to Member States in considering  whether their own achieveménts were comparable  with those of other Member States. He considered,  accordingly, that the form and content of the reports  should be decided on the basis of how such reports  could best bc used by the Programme Commission  and by the Director- -Genéral. It was therefore  essential that the type of ‘“eporting should harmonize  with the type of reporting used by the Director-  General himself, He understood that the Director-  General had not as yet taken a final decision on the  definitive form of his own reporting; it was thus  important that the Committee should not arrive at a  hasty decision which would rigidly lay down the type  of reporting over the following two-year period, only  to find that it did not in fact harmonize with the  Pirector-General's reporting. The Committee  should, as the delegate of France had pointed out,  exercise the utmost caution in the matter and should  endeavour to adopt a flexible outline, which the   COMMITTEE GN  Executive Board would be able {o modify if necessary,  in order to make it posaible to compile a comprehen-  sive and analytical report of the Organization's work,  showing the extent to which the resolutions of the  General Conference had been implemented.  It was impossible to overlook the fact that, as  things stood, the Director-General had not been able  to draw heavily on the reports of Member States in  preparing his own report but had been obliged to rely,  in the main, on other sources, Mr. McCullough was  accordingly disturbed at a proposal which would be  essentially a continuation of the existing system,  though with some improvements. The defects in past  reports from Member States had been their omissions  and their lack of comparability, Those difficulties  might be met by retaining the first two sections  proposed by the representative of the Director-  General and by replacing the new sections 3 to 6 that  he had suggested by appropriate questionnaires on  concrete elements in the programme which would  assist the Director-General in completing his own  report.  Ag far as the future character of the Committee  was concerned, he wondered whether it would not be  desirable for it to be more closely related to the  Programme Commission, and indeed to function as a  committee of the Programme Commission rather  than as an entirely separate body.
(19) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) said that, since the last point raised by the  United States delegate concerned the future rôle of  REPORTS OF MEMBER     STATES X-12  the Committee, it affected that body directly; but the  question cams under item 10 of the agenda of the  General Conference - an item which had not been  referred to the Committee. If it wished to discuss  the point, therefore, the Chairman would have to ask  the General Committee of the Conference to refer it  to the Committee on Reports of Member States.
(20) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) pointed  out that, unless the Committee asked for item 19 of  the agenda to be referred to it, it would be implicitly  approving the Executive Board's recommendation.  The question was too important to be settled out of  hand without discussion,
(21) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United Statés of America)  said that the Committee also had the alternative of  referring the matter to thz Programme Cumimission,  which could set up a sub-committee to consider the  problem. That sub-committee might include the  members of the Committee on Reports of Member  States as well as being more representative of the  General Conference. Another possibility would be  for the Conference formally to enlarge the Committee  on Reports of Member States.
(22) The CHAIRMAN remarked that the subject  called for thorough consideration, and announced his  intention of continuing the discussion at the following  meeting. .  The meeting rose at 5.25 p.m,  TWELFTH MEETING
16 November 1956, at 3.30 p.m,  Chairman: Mr. ZEISSL (Austria)
(1) The CHAIRMAN declared the meeting open and,  there being no quorum, announced that, in accordance  with the provisions of Rule 69 of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference, the meeting  would adjourn for ten minutes,  (The meeting adjourned for ten minutes.)
(2) There being still no quorum after that statutory  adjournment, the CHAIRMAN asked if all members  present would agree temporarily to waive paragraph
2 of Rule 69, as provided in paragraph 3 of that Rule,
(3) It was so agreed.  ITEM 17.3 OF THE AGENDA : PERIODIC REPORTS ON HUMAN  BIGUTS (Resolution 62413 (XXII) of the Economic and Social  Council) (continued) (document 9C/11)  CONSIDERATION OF THEE COMMITTEE'S DRAFT REPORT  (continued) (document 9C/REP/PROV/4)
(4) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Committee had
747  - expressed the wish to have a written text of the draft  report on recommendations regarding periodic  reports on human rights, which the Rapporteur had  presented orally at the previous meeting. He invited  comment on the draft report (document
9C/REP/PROV/4) before the Committee.
(5) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Diractor-  General) pointed out that a comma should be inserted  before "en cas d'urgence!" in the fifth line of the  French text of paragraph 11 (d). "Referring to the  same paragraph, he reminded the meeting that it  would not be possible for the analysis of the reports  of Member States for the years 1854, 1955 and 1056  to be submitted to the General Conference, as it  would have to be communicated to the Secretary-  General of the United Nations in 1957 and the next  session of the General Conference would not take  place until 1958. While the Director-General had no  objection, in principle, to submitting the analysis to  the Executive Board, it might be necessary to make  a distinction between a survey incorporating comments