(13) The suggestion made by the representative of  JLO was adopted,  ) (14) Resolution 1.32, as amended, was adopted  . gnanimonisly.
(15) Mr. GUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education) stated that the budget estimate for the  proposal contained in document 8C/DR/11 was  $32,000,
(76) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) recalled that his  delegation had always maintained that it was impos-  sible to deal with school curricula without taking up  thé subject of educational reform. The Advisory  Committee on the School Curriculum had endorsed  that view at its recent meeting. The problem was an  urgent one for several countries, and it was essential  to deal with it first.
(77) The French proposal (document 8C/DR/11) was  adopted by 38 votes to 7, with 10 abstentions.
(78) The CHAIRMAN noted that the French proposal  contained in document 9C/DR/12, relating to para-  graph 107, had been withdrawn. She calieu  attention to a further French draft resolution,  contained in document 8C/DR/10.  COMMISSION     IV-25
(79) Mr. GUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education) stated that the budget estimate for that  proposal was $27,712, He mentioned that the  Secretariat had just concluded a contract with the  Hamburg Institute, which was to convene a meeting of  experts on the subject in 1887.
(80) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) was pleased to note  that decision, and withdrew the French proposal,  document 9C/DR/10,
(61) The CHAIRMAN noted that no action was there-  fore called for. She drew attention to the draft  resclution submitted by France in document
(82) Mr, GUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education) stated that the Secretariat's budget esti-  mate for that proposal was $12,167, The Secretariat  would be very plessed to carry out the project if the  necessary funds were available,
(83) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) hoped the Secretariat  would take that text into consideration when the  future programme of the Hamburg institute were  being planned.  The meeting rose at 1,10 p.m.  TWENTY - FIFTH MEETING
28 November 1956, at 3 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. ANAS (Afghanistan)  TEN 9.4 OF TAE AGENDA : CULTURAL ACTIVITIES (continued)  Draft resolution 9C/DR/49  {1} The CHAIRMAN announced that, before resuming  its discussion of the programme of the Department of  Education, | the Commission should take a second vate  - on the proposal contained in document 9C/DR/49,  submitted by the delegation of Argentina, the first  yote on that proposal having been equally divided  _ (Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference).  @ Mr, ‘BOURGEOIS (Switzeriahd) recalled that he  had stated earlier that his delegation was in principle  in favour of the Argentine draft resolution, but would  like to hear the views of the other Latin American  countries, Those countries had supported thé pro-  posal, but the Swiss delegate wanted, nevertheless, to  make a few comments before the vote was taken.  The main responsibility fur publicizing Unesco's work  throtighout the world lay with the National Commis-  sions. The Swiss delegation was convinced that that
445     was true, but wondered whether the establfshment ot  a new Centre in Latin América might not lead to  proposuls for setting ip similar centres in other  countries also, which would involve expénse for  Unesco,
(3) Mr. MALLEA (Argentina) did nôt think thé Swiss  delegate's comment applied to the document on which  the Commission was about fo vote. He recalled that  the documerit under discussion was 9C/DR/49, pro-  posing the establishment of an International Docu-  mentation Céntré in Buenos Aires; the speaker  thought the Swiss ts delegate was referring to another  proposal subimitied by the Argentine delegation to a  special working party, since the Centre mentioned in’  document 9C/DR/49 had nothing to do with the  Naticoal Commissions. He asked the Chairman to  put the matter to thè vote immediately, as the  question liad been adequately discussed, especially  in view of all the work the Commission still had  before it.
(4) Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) replied that the   IV-25 PROGRAMME  document to which he was referring was indeed
(5) The CHAIRMAN ruled that the delegate of  Switzerland might continue to speak on document
(6) Mr, BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) said the Swiss  delegation would prefer to vote on a carefully worked  out project glving precise details about the Centre's  programme, budget and staff, and the contributions  to be paid by the countries interested; and stating  whethér Unesco was to assist permanently in running  it or only during the initial period, ‘Mr, Bourgeois  therefore proposed that, instéad of allocating the sum  of $30,000 to that project immediately, the Conference  should instruct the Secretariat to'send a mission to  Argentina to study the facilities available in the region  and decide whether the Centré should come under the  Technical Assistance programmé or the regular pro-  gramme of Unesco. A report would then be submitted  to the General Conference at its tenth session, In that  case, the Swiss delegate thought that the appropriation  for the project should be fixed at about $5,000 for the  two-year period.
(7) Mr. LEE (United States of America) indicated that  most of the views he had wished to put forward had  already been expressed by the delegate of Switzerland.  He welcomed the initiative and display of interest  evidenced by the Argentine proposal, but felt that the  matter required further thought, For that reason he  would oppose its adoption at the moment, although, if  the Director-General had any suggestions to make,  he would agree that the Secretariat undertake a  thorough study of the poesibilities of establishing such  a centre, with a view to presenting more mature plans  to the tenth session.
(8) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  explained that, if the Argentine Government accepted  the solution proposed by the Swiss delegate, it could  apply, under the programme of Participation in  Member States' activities in the field of libraries and  related services (docuinent 9C/5, paragraph 163 of the  Culturat Activities chapter), for a Unesco mission to  be sent to help in drawing up the plans for the Centre.  It would then be able to decide whether fo apply for  the Centre to be set up under the Expanded Programme  of Technical Assistance or whether to ask for Unesco  aid under the programme of Participation in Member  States' activities. The Asslsyant Director-General  thought the sum of $5,000 reasonable to cover the cost  of a preparatory mission; he explained that, if the  Commission agreed to the proposal, it would have to  approve that appropriation as it had already done in  the case of Unesco missions to other countries.
(8) Mr. BARON CASTRO (El Salvador) asked to speak  on a point of order. Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure  of the Genersl Conference relating to equally divided  votes read: "If a vote is equally divided, in voting not  concerned with elections, a second vote shall be taken  in the course of a subsequent meeting. This meeting  shall be held within forty-eight hours after the first  vote, and the taking of the secund vote shall uppear  on its agenda". He pointed out that all the conditions
446     COMMISSION  set forth in that Rule were satisfied; -a vote had been  equally divided, forty-eight hours had elapsed, and the  item was included in the agenda of the meeting. : “hough  the Swiss delegate's proposal was a good one, it would,  he thought, result in the Commission's failing to comply  with the Rules of Procedure, and he asked the Chair-  man to put the question to the vote immediately, as  required,
(10) The CHAIRMAN called for & vote on the draft  resolution submitted by the Argentine delegation  (document 9C/DR/48). It was approved by 26 votes  to 18, with 9 abstentions.
(11) In answer to Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-  General), who wanted to know whether the Argentine  delegation wished the draft resolution to be included  in paragraph 167 of the Cultural Activities chapter,  Mr. MALLEA (Argentina) said {hat the Argentine  delegation could discuss the matter with the Secre-  tariat; especially as many of the headings appeared  several times, which was liable to create confusion,  He saw no objection to discussing the details with the  Secretariat.  ITEM 9.1 OF THE AGENDA: FDUCATION (continued)  (documents 9C/5 and Addenda and Corrigenda)
(12) The CHAIRMAN welcomed the delegate of the  Sudan, who was attending the Commission for the  first time as a full member, and called upon him to  speak.
(13) Mr. EL HAG ALI (Sudan) referred to the propo-  sal submitted by the delegation of Switzerland with  regard to a major projéct on school buildings and  equipment (document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1, Annex,  paragraphs 23 to 42), to which his delegation attached  the greatest importance, The Sudan had benefited a  great deal from Technical Assistance before becoming  a Member of Unesco, and hé had been very interested  in all the discussions of the Programme Commission.  Underdeveloped countries, however, were more inter-  ested in immediate problems, and the lack of school  buildings was one of the most serious and urgent. It  was, in fact, by far the greatest problem in the develop-  ment of free and compulsory education, and was a  matter in which more fortunate Member States should  help underdeveloped countries. The greatest need  was for buildings suitable for all climates and condi-  tions, which could be easily constructed at low cost.  His delegation had felt some surprise that the project  was not to be undertaken immediately but hoped that it  would be developed und would eventually assume the  proportions and importance of a major project.
1.3 Pre-school and School Education (paragraphs 78  to 136 and documents 9C/DR/13, 55 and 117)
(14) The CHAIRMAN then opened discussion on the  proposal submitted by the delegation of Liberia with  respect to item 1,321 - Pre-school and school  education (document 9C/DR/55).
(15) Mr, MASSAQUOI (Liberia) did not think the  proposal of his délegation should give rise to much  debate since it merely proposed that the words   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  ’agsistancé may also be given’through non-govern-  mental organizations" be added to paragraph 114 in  Chapter 1 of document 8C/5. He thought that that  proposal was in accordance with Unesco's policy of  co-operating with non-governmental organizations,  which were often able to assist the Organization  efficiently and at little cost.
(16) The proposal of the delegation of Liberia was  seconded by the delegate of the Netherlands, and Mr.  Guiton expressed the full agreement of the  Secretariat.
(17) Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) proposed that the word  "through" be replaced by "to", as use of the former  did not make it clear who was to be assisted.
(18) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) explained that the |  intention of his delegation had been that Unésco should  make use of the knowledge and resources of the many  teacher organizations, which functionéd through non-  governmental organizations. He would agree to the  amendment proposed, although he felt the problem was  merely a matter of drafting that could be settled  between the interested delegates and the Secretariat.
(19) Mr. GUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education) explained that what was being discussed  was merely a recommendation relating to a work plan,  on which the Commission was not required to vote.  He proposed that paragraph 114 of Chapter 1 of  document 9C/5, Education, be amended, by addition of  the words "and competent international non-govern-  mental organizations" after "National Commissions".
(20) That suggestion was accepted,
(21) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on draft  resolution 8C/DR/13, submitted by the French dele-  gatlon, concerning research on the content of the idea  of living in a world community.
(22) Mr. GUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education) sald that the Secretariat's budget estimate  for that project was $20,825, He drew the Commis-  slon's attention to the fact that research on that
2 bject was already being done as part of the activi-  {iss undertaken in 1955-1956, and that the Secrétariat  proposed to continue it under the heading of "Associ-  ated Schools Projects in Education for International  Understanding", Since it was a case of research on  the content of the idea of living in à world community  as it affected young people who were on the point of  becoming citizens of their national communities,  Mr, Guiton said that the Director-General might  suggest that the Gauting Youth Institute include the  question in one of its forthcoming programmes; he  recalled that an increase in the subvention for that  Institute had been approved at the previous meeting of  the Commission.
(23) Mr, SAIYIDAIN (India) recalled that a committee  had been appointed to study the whole problem of living  in a world community. That problem, and the allied  question of international understanding, were basic to  India's entire attitude towards Unesco. His delega-  tion, however, was not sure that the project proposed
447     IV-25  by the delegation of France would achieve any definite  results, and feared that it might léad only to endless  debate, Furthermore, he was not sure that such a  project was within the competence of Unesco, Hé  thought, in ahy case, that thé Organization should  avoid fragmentary undertakings which used up its  resources without achieving practical results, If the  project were to be adopted, he thought it might be  carried out more usefully as part of the major project  on mutual East-West understanding,
(24) Mr, FRANCOIS (France) did not think the French  delegation's intention was to confine activities to idle  talk. Considerable efforts were béing made in France  to give young people a sound political ideal and to  inculcate in them the idea of international collabo-  ration, -Those efforts deserved to be known in other  countries which were in a position to make their own  contribution to the subject, Co  Mr. François said that his delegation was prépared  to accept the Secretariat’ s proposal, and thought that  the problems in question would probably be treated  more directly and with greater exactitude by répre-  sentatives of youth movements than by teachers  specially meeting for the purpose. He added that, if  it proved impossible to obtain satisfactory results  through the Gauting Institute, the French National  Commission would consider taking steps to give all  Unesco's Member States information about its own  experience,
(25) Mr. RAADI (Iran) recalled that his delegation,  jointly with the delegations of Denmark and Nepal,  had presented a draft resolution (document 9C/DR/117)  on teaching about the United Nations and human rights,  proposing amendments to paragraph (H) of resolution
1,32 and paragraph 119 of the Education chapter in  document 9C/5. He thought perhaps the time had  come for the Comraission to examine that draft  resolution.
(26) Mr, GUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education) stressed that draft resolution 9C/DR/117  proposed allocating a sum of $7,000 for contracts with  internaticaal non-governmental orginizations,, He  reminded the meeting that the Direct t-General, in  document 8C/5, Corrigendum 4, propt sed a subyention  of $10,000 to the World Federation of ‘Inited Nations  Associations, and a sum of $5,950 for « ontracts with  National Commissions and non-governr.ental organi-  zations for teaching about the United Na :ions and the  Specialized Agencies.
(27) Mr. RAADI (Iran) said that, siace a decision  had already been reached on the budget, thérs would  probably be no difficulty, if the co-authors of draft  resolution 9C/DR/117 agreed, in amending the texts  - in accordance with that draft resolution, He therefore  proposed that there be added to the end of paragraph  (H) of resolution 1,32 the words: "in co-operation  with the appropriate international non-governmental  organizations‘; and that, in paragraph 119 of  document 8C/5, the ward "contracts" be inserted  after the words "in the form of".
(28) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that resolution 1.32  had already been adopted by the Commission.   Iv-25 PROGRAMME  However, the Secretariat would take the remarks of  the delegate of Iran into consideration.
(29) Mrs. TEJEIRA (Panama) gave an account of the  meeting held by women delegates to the Conference  that morning to examine Unesco's achievements in  connexion with the education of girls and women. She  said they had been surprised to find that women's  organizations approached the matter in an emotional  way instead of treatiñ( it as a technical problem to be  solved, She stated that, since nowoman education  specialist had been appointéd to replace the one who  had worked in Unesco for some timé and had  resigned, it had not been possible to present a report  on women's education to the United Nations Commis-  sion on the Status of Women that year. Since they  thought those questions needed looking into, since they  belieyed in the importance of the education of girls  for j'e achievement of Unesco's objects, and since  tha {sport presenied by the Director-General to the  Ge.iéral Conference at its ninth sescion indicated that  the experimental project on the education of girls had  been abandoned, the women delegates had decided to  make the following recommendatione to the  Commission: a. 4
(1) To appotrit a specialist in the education of girls  to the Department of Education, to prepare the reports  asked for by thé Commission on the Status of Women,  and to carry out the requisite technical studies.
(2) To enable women experts in thé Departments of  Education, Social Sciences and Mass Communication to  study the subject of education for girls and women in  connexion with the projects includéd in Unesco's  regular programmé, with spécial reference to funda-  mental, pre-school, primary and adult education.
(3) To establish relations between the three above-  mentioned Departnients with a view to solving the  problems of education for girls and raising the  general standaïd of education by that means.
(4) To consider, during the coming two-year period,  setting up a special section to co-ordinate measures  for improving educational opportunities for women.
(5) To encourage National Commissions to develop  the exchange of information on ways of making the  general public more keenly aware of the need for  women'a education,
(6) To increase the number of women beneficiaries  of exchange of persons programmes, travel grants and  study fellowships,
(7) To organize regional and international seminars  on the education of girls.
(6) To encourage more exchanges of women experts  between Member States.
(30) Mr, RAADI (Iran) urged that, in carrying out the  measures provided for in document 9C/5, Corrigendum
4, in connexion with teaching about the United Nations  and Specialized Agencies, the recommendations  contained in draft resolution 9C/DR/117 should be  taken into account. As to the amendments he had  proposed to document 9C/6, he realized that the texts  already adopted could not be furthér amended, but was  sorry that document 9C/DR/117 had not been dis-  cussed in conjunction with the paragraphs of the  proposed programme to which it referred. He added  that he would rely on the Secretariat to take account  of that document.    COMMISSION
(31) Mrs. TEJEIRA (Panama), replying to the  CHAIRMAN, explained that the proposals she had made  were not a resolution but recommendations which had  been asked for that morning. After studying the  problem and coming to the conclusion that the results  achieved so far were inadequate, the women delegates  had decided to put forward suggestions for future  activities,
(32) The CHAIRMAN said that the Secretariat had  taken note of the remarks of the delegate of Panama,
(33) Raising a point of order, Mr, LUND (Sweden)  recalled that he had maved from the floor at a previous  meeting that the proyieion for Unesco's activities in  connexion with the ediication of girls (paragraphs 127  to 130, in Part II, Chapter 1, of document 9C/5) be  increased from $3,500 to $5,000 in 1957, and from  $1,500 to $5,000 in 1958 - a total increase of $5,000.  That proposal had been seconded and, in accordance  with the procedure agreed by the General Committee,  had been accepted by the Chairman, He therefore  asked that a vote be taken on that proposal before  proceeding with the next item.
(34) Mr. SAIYIDAIN (India) pointed out that the  budgetary provision for that item proposed by the  Secretariat related to contracts and staff travel. He  asked if the delegate of Sweden intended to relate his  proposed increase to any specific new activity, or  whether he merely wished to make a general increase  in the provision for that item.
(35) Mr, GUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education) said he had been about to ask the same  question. He wondered what use could be made of  those $5,000 - an amount which was either too large  or too small, according to the purpose to which it was  to be put.
(36) Miss PEDERSEN (Denmark) felt that the same  criticism might be applied to the budgetary provision  the Director-General had proposed for that item. If  the Secretariat would explain what it proposed to do  with the small sum proposed, delegates might be able  to make suggestions regarding the use of the additional  funds proposed by the delegate of Sweden.
(37) Mr, GUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education) said that the Secretariat had been asked to  carry out an investigation into the: opportunities for  women in higher education. That investigation would  in fact cost much more than the sum provided for in  the corresponding paragraph of the proposed pro-  gramme and budget; it would réquire the services of  staff in the Education Clearing House - three people  would probably have to work full time on it for aix  months. The salaries of those people were included  in the estimates for the Centre. If it were decided to  undertake a further investigation with the $5,000 In  question, another problem would arise: apart from  the contracts to be concluded, specialists would have  to be found, and in addition the staff of the Clearing  House would no longer be sufficient.
(38) Mr. CALO (Italy) remarked that Mr. Guiton had  spoken of an investigation on opportunities for women
448   PROGRAMME COMMISBION  ‘in higher education, whereas document 9C/5 used the  term "higher education for women". He thought a  precise definition of the purpose of the inquiry was  needed, .
(39) Miss TRINIDAD (Philippines) supported the  proposal that the estimates in paragraph 130 of the  Education chapter ($3,500 for 1967 and $1,500 for
1958) be increased to $5,000 for each yéar, She  wondered whether the suggestion she wished to make  would be acceptable: it was that those funds should be  used for implementing some of the recommendations  made by the delegate of Panama - for example, re-  commendations 1, 2 and 3 - or for drawing up precise  work plans, to be presented either in 1958 or whenever  the Commission deemed it expedient.
(40) Mr. MUDALIAR (India) thought that the Swedish  proposal should be considered in the spirit in which it  was made. It was obvious that much remained to be  done to improve conditions and facilities for the edu-  cation of women and girls; a small increase in the  provision for that item could certainly be put to good  use, even if the purpose were not specifically stated  in the work plans.
(41) Mr. LUND (Sweden) thought that his proposal  had been discussed sufficiently, Ho suggested that  thé Secretariat be given the additional funds and be  asked to report to the tenth session of the Conference  on what it had accomplished therewith.
(42) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) said  that the Secretariat would accept the Swedish delegate' s  suggestion, Nevertheless, he thought it was his duty  to point out that the Programme Commission had in  the course of the day voted additional appropriations  to a total of some $100,000, which brought the total  already earmarked from the. extra $1,000,000 added  to the budget up to $294,500, although the programmes  of two Departments still remained to be examined, in  addition to the major projects.
(43) Upon a vote being taken, the proposal of the  delegete of Sweden was adopted by 42 votes to 2, with
8 abstentions.
1.4 Fundamental education (paragraphs 137 to 176  and document 9C/PRG/27)
(44) The CHAIRMAN called upon the Rapporteur of  the Working Party on Fundamental Education to present  his report (document 9C/PRG/27).
(45) Mr. PAYE (France), Rapporteur of Working  Party No. 3, recalled that the Programme Commis-  sion had set up a Working Partyto make a study of  problems relating to fundamental education for two  reasons: firstly, it was ten years since the first  experiments in fundamental education had been under -  taken and it was time to assess the results achieved;  secondly, the concept of community development had  been added to and combined with that of fundamental  education  The Rapporteur of Working Party No. 3 made  various comments on the Working Party's report  (document 9C/PRG/27). The concept of community
449     Iv-25  development had brought a new factor into funda-  mental education and, owing to the wide variety of  aspects it assumed, had given rise to certain diffi-  culties regarding the definition of the term fundamen-  tal education, The definition given on page 11 of  document 9C/PRG/27 had been drawn up on the basis  of suggestions’ made by several delegations and  drafted by a ccmmittee composed of representatives  of a number of countries, includirig Liberia, Morocco  and Tunisia, That definition gave a broad indication  of the content of fundamental education and the  machinery through which it operated, in reply to the  questions contained in paragraph 8 of the report,  Fundamental ediication was designed primarily for  adults and chlldrin who had received no regular  education - in underdeveloped regions, for example.  It was algo intended to complete the education of  adolescents and adults, where inadequate. Important  information on the subject was contained in para-  graphs 10 and 19 of the report,  Fundamental education could be organized outside  the schools, although schools, where they existed,  should constitute the pivot of the system. They also  provided a centre where experts in the various  branches of work involved could co-operate with  achool-teachers and fundamental education specialists,  and they had the teachera' prestige to help them ir  extending the influence of their work. That work could  be carried on in town and country alike, In areas with  a still undifferentiated economy, urban communities  which had retained their rural character could be  completely transformed by the introduction of funda-  mental education, Paragraph 12 of the report gave  the Working Party's conclusions on that subject.  Fundamental education should constitute an  integrated whole, as otherwise the character of the  work was liable to be distorted. The Working Party  felt that, generally speaking, and where community  development work was involved, fundamental education  should be based on the idea of gradual development  and on respect for the past, and for the traditional,  moral and religious values of the people concerned,  Those values were a very powerful factor in elemen-  tary communities and no cducation programme could  afford to ignore them.  ‘The Working Partyhad issued precise recommenda-  tions on the co-ordination to be established between  fundamental education experts or teams and the  various specialized institutions concerned with their  work, It had also stressed the importance of training  for fundamental education specialists and the need for  studying what they were to do and how to prepare them  for their functions, particularly at the two Reglonal  Fundamental Education Centres for Latin America and  the Middle East. The Working Partyhad also laid down  certain directives essential for the extension of funda-  mental education in conjunction with community  development ag a whole, whether in towns or in rural  aress. .  The Working Partyhad examined the Proposed  Programme and Budget for 1957-1958. It recom-  mended that the funds allocated in the Department of  Cultural Activities for the production of reading  material for new literates be transferred to the budget  of the Department of Education; and drew the attention  of the Programme Commission to the character of that  project. It submitted to the Programme Commission   Iv-2%  two draft resolutions, the first of which had already  been discussed, Finally, the Working Party proposed  that a major project on fundamental and adult educa-  tion, relating particularly to Africa, be prepared,
(46) Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) (Representative of  the Executive Board) congratulated the Working Party  on its very useful report, which would serve as an  excellent introduction to tite section on fundamental  education, The Executive Board had given much  thought to the questions that should be tréated by  working parties at tho General Conference, and had  chosen the whole concept of fundamental education,  which it felt required redefinition, He thought dele-  gates would agree that it was extremely useful for  working parties to consider the basic concepts of  Unesco's programme.
(47) Mr. HAMILTON (British Caribbean Gx'oup)  agreed that the philosophy of fundamental education  was admirably stated in the report of the Working  Party, but was not sure that the practical techniques  and objectives were equally clear. In particular,he  felt that the cost of international centres was high in  relation to the number of students, and asked if the  Secretariat could tell him the actual cost for each  student. He realized that it was not easy to achieve  a breakdown between capital expenditure and actual  teaching costs, and knew that serious éfforts had been  made to reduce expenditure in spite of the difficulties  encountered, but the Organization had to realize that  magny Member States would have difficulty in contin-  uing to support a training programme that was too  expensive.  He would suggest, also that part of the study  envisaged in paragraph 152 (a) of document 9C/6  Corrigendum 1, be devoted to an examination of  incentives, more particularly the incentive that made  people want to go on doing something after the initial  novelty had worn off. ‘It might well be necessary to  revise techniques in the light of improved knowlèdge  of incentives, to ensure that the results of fundamental  education projects were of lasting benefit to commu-  nities as well as to certain individuals, thus providing  greater justification for the high cost of such projects.  Referring to the statements contained in paragraphs
147 and 148 of the chapter on Education, and the _  relevant paragraphs of the chapter devoted to Cultural  Activities, relating to the production of reading  materials for new literates, Mr. Hamilton said that,  since 1952, he had been drawing the attention of Unesco  experts to the faét that new litérates should ultimately  be able to read thé normal literature in circulation.  Unless that stage were reéched, there would always  be the need to duplicate literary efforts, and many  Member States lacked supplies of papèr and found  printing an expensive process. He would therefore  ask how long a new literate remained "new", or  rather, whether a neo-literate ever became really  literate, He wondered if Unesco had ever given any  thought to that aspect of the.problem of fundamental  education, which was of vital importance to those  countries undertaking literacy projects.
(48) Mr. NANNETTI (Organization of American |  States) said that OAS had co-operated with Unesco at  the Regional Fundamental Education Centre for Latin
450  PROGRAMME COMMISSION  America (CREFAL) for six years, OAS had given that  Centre technical and financial assistance, and bad  collaborated on the mission sent to evaluste CREFAL's  achievements, which had submitted its conclusions to  Unesco and to the Centre, A Joint Co-ordinating  Committee; set up as part of a'co-ordinated pro-  gramme, had examined apd approved the recommenda-  tions of the appraisal mission, and OAS was prepared  to assist the Regional Centre on those lines,  Mr. Nannetti wished to mention some af thé aims of  his Organization: OAS had already co-operated in the  production of reading matter for new literates wishing  to benefit from cultural opportunities, as was their  right. OAS had undertaken that work in agreement  with Unesco in order to furtheir fundamental education  in America, but he thought there should be better co-  ordination between the two Organizations - OAS and  Unesco - in that field. He thought that joint projects  would give better results and help the American  peoples more if there were more co-operation,
(49) Mr, HOUGHTON (United Kingdom) felt that some  reference should be made to the point, raised in  previous discussions of the Programme Commission  and mentioned in paragraphs 43 and 44 of the report  of the Working Party, that the additional $90,000 which  the Director-General proposed to allocate to the  project for the production of reading material for new  literates (document 8C/5, Corrigendum 4, Section II)  should be allocated to the Department of Education  rather than to the Department of Cultural Activities,  He understood that the delegate of New Zealand was  to present a draft resolution to that effect, and his  delegation would support that proposal.  Turning to the question of international fundamental  education centres, he recalled that the initial centres  had been established as part of a long-term programme  during which Uneséo would set up such centres right  round the world, It had also been hoped that, after a  period of about five years, the financial responsibility  for those centres would devolve upon the Member  States concerned. He noted that it was proposed that  the two Centres already created, one of which had been  in existence for over five years, and the other for  almost that period, should continue as inter-agency  Centres. He had read, however, that the Food and  Agriculture Organization was doubtful whether it  could continue its support of those Centres, and other  United Nations agencies had éntered into other commit:  ments. He wondered, therefore, whether the Director-  General was confident that all other agencies would  continue to respect their commitments to the Centres  in the same way as Unesco; it-might be necessary to  consider the whole financial situation of the Centres,  which appeared to be somewhat precarious. He  asked also whether the Secretariat ‘vas satisfied that  the domestic economy of the two Centres was on a  sound basis. Co  He noted, tod, that the financial provision for the  maintenance of students had been transferred to the  Exchange of Persoñs Service, so that Member States  could request fellovships for study at one of the  Centres, or for other purposes. Hé feared, therefore,  that Member States might prefer to request fellow-  ships for "other purposes” and that the Centres would  continue with high overheads and fewer students. He  sought an assurance from the Secretariat that the   PROGRAMKE COMMISSION  transfer of hinds would not affect the number of  students at the two Centres,  In conclusion, Mr, Houghton thought the time had  come for the General Conference to consider how  Unesco! s financial responsibility for the Centres  could be reduced; and suggested that the question of  the Organization's phased withdrawal from such  responsibility be considered ui the tenth session.
(50) Mr. TENA ARTIGAS (Spain) had a few remarks  to make on the report so lucidly presented by the  Rapporteur of Working Party No. 3. That report  (document 9C/PRG/2T) reflected the views of the  Working Partyon fundamental education on which ail  delegations had had an opportunity of stating their  opinions, He wished to point out that the report did  not mention the delegations which were represented  on it, as was customary. Proceeding to details, he  referred to the section contained in paragraph 41  onwards, dealing with the subjects proposed by the  Secretariat as a basis for the Working Party's dis-  cussion (document 6C/PRG/WP.3/PROV.1) in its  efforis to appraise the results of the fundamental  education programme, confirm or amend the under-  lying policy, examine its contents and, if necessary,  expand it,  The last part of the report, from paragraph 42  onwards, contained observations on which the  Programme Commission had to take s decision.  The Spanish delegation supported ths New Zealand  proposal regarding thé transfer of the sum allocated  to the Department of Cultural Activities for the pre-  paratioh of "reading material for new literates" to the  Department of Education, which was only logical since  the object was to follow up and consolidate the results  of fundamental education and the work should be in the  hands of specialists, Thé Spanish delegation was  naturally in favour of the allocation of the additional  $90,00p for that item proposed in document 8C/5,  Corrigendum 4 to the budget of the Department of  Education, It also warmly supported the French  proposals contained in paragraph 45 (section II).  The Spanish delegation agreed in principle with  draft résolution 1. 411 but, in view of the commitments  of the Conference in respect of the other major  projects, and of the heavy expenditure it would  involve, considered it unadvisable to adopt the draft  resolution at the moment.  He wished to make a correction to the Spanish text  of paragraph 137, line 2, of document 8C/6, relating  to the définition of fundamental education. Instead of  "privadss de las ventajas que ofrece la instrucciôn  oficial" the text should read: ‘privadas de las  ventajas que ofrece la instrucciën sistematica o  regular”, which he thought was the correct translation  of "formal education" in the text of the definition given  in 1950.  He asked the Secretariat to have the Spanish trans-  lation of the definition proposed by the Working Party,  which the Rapporteur had just read out, revised; it  differed considerably from the original French,  Mr. Tenas Artiges said that the main defect  of the definition of fundamental education given  in 1950 was that it lacked the brevity, clarity  and concision essential to a good definition. He  thought that was perhaps why it had been  decided, in the new definition, to include the
451  Iv-as  content as well as the objact of fundamental education.  He thought it might be enough simply to state that  "fundamental education" covered the rudiments of  goneral education without which no civilized community  life was conceivable in the modern world. Such a  definition would probably be generally comprehensible.  ‘It would be very useful, he thought, to proclaim a  few basic principles to illustrate the meaning of  funlamental education and, in particular, to guide  Unsico experts and Member States, so that people  would know what a fundamental education expert or  centre could be expected todo, +  It way difficult to improve substantially on the 1950  definition,’ Hence the amendments proposed by the  Working Party were only minor ones, designed merely  to strengthen the sense of human dignity and solidarity  and the recognition of rights and duties which could  neither exist nor develop without respect for basic  social elements, such as the family, and for universal  values based on each people's moral end religious  beliefs,  Mr. Tena Artigas said that, on all tho above grounds,  and in order to expedite the Commission's work, if  the report were voted on as à whole without going into  details, the Spanish delegation was prepared to approve  the proposals contained in the Working Party's report.
(51) Mr, EKANAYAKA (Ceylon) said that his delega-  tion was not entirely convinced that the transfer of the  additional $90,000 for the project on the production of  reading material for new literates to the Department  of Education was a sound prôcédure, nor that the  transfer would result'in any improvement of either the  programme of fundamental education, or the project  for the production of reading material for new literates.  It had been stated in previous discussions that it was  necessary for reading material for new literates to  be adapted to the cultural background, habits, and  general way of lifé of the peoplé for whom it was  intended, He thought, therefore, that the project  should be considered as an interdepartmental activity,  the budgetary provision therefor being divided between  the Department of Education and the Department of  Cultural Activities, In any case, he did not think that  the total $80,000 should be merged in thé budget for  fundamental education, for which a fairly large  provision had already been made (paragraph 143), and  for which additional funds could be obtained under the  United Nations Expanded Programme of Technical  Assistance.
(52) Mr, ZIMIN (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics),  whilst praising thé care and impartiality with which  the report of the Working Partyhad been prepared, hed  a few comments to make. He thought paragraph 35,  dealing with literacy campaigns among a ta,  insufficiently cléar. The main emphasis wag laid on  the difficulties rather than on the basic task, In the  view of the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist’  Republics, the litetacy campaign was essentially part  of the spreading of culture as a whole, It was a vital  and basic element in the spreading c: fundamental  education, and it was necessary to show that literacy  led to the development of a civic and social sense in a  civilized community.  Furthermore, paragraph 19 spoke of bringing the  notion of progress to the humblest strata of the   IV-25  population, Mr, Zimin thought that phrase offensive:  {t would be better to speak of groups in the population  who had not had the opportunity of acquiring a primary  education,  The Soviet delegate’ was concerned to note that,  despite all the efforts expended, the results achieved  over the past ten years in the field of fundamental  education had been inadéquate, He drew attention to  that point, He would therefore support draft resolu-  tion 1,411; submitted by the French representative  (paragraph 46), calling for an inquiry into the diffi-  culties, failures and achievements in fundamental  education, and on how to improve methods in the future.  If that proposal were adopted, the General Conference  would be able at its tenth session to take the necessary  measures for making fundamental education work more  effective.
(53) Mr. SIDDIQUI (Pakistan) shared the views  expressed by the delegate of Ceylon, His delegation  considered that, whereas the Department of Education  was concerned with making illiterate people literate,  it was the Department of Cultural Activities that was  concerned with keeping them so, Moreover, the  Department ¢f Cultural Activities had been responsible  for the project in question for the past four to five .  years, and interested Member States had co- operated  with that Department, . Any change of policy, therefore,  would not only affect the character of the project, but  would also alter the relationship of Member States  with the Secretariat and probably hamper progress. ,  In addition, he felt that the Department of Education  was already somewhat overburdened by a heavy. pro-  gramme and much responsibility, He would therefore  strongly recommend that the additional $90,000 to be  allocated to the project for the production of reading  material for new literates be maintained in the Depart-  ment of Cultural Activities. Consideration should  also be given to the production of literature for  juveniles,
(54) Mr. CALO (Italy) wished to comment on the  general principles of fundamental education. People  often spoke, he said, of the links between primary  schools and fundamental education, implying that the  latter was complementary to the former The Italian  delegate did not take that view, If the ajms and  content of fundamental education were defined, it  became clear, that they corresponded precisely to  those of primary education, Fundamental’ education  should come into play only when primary schools  were inadequately equipped or when children had been  unable to reap full benefit from them, If fundamental  education were to be treated as complementary to  primary education, the latter would lose its main  purpose. If the schools made it their business to  give, children moral training and fit them to fulfil the  duties of citizéns {t was unnecessary, provided  children were In fact abie to attend gchool, for any  other institutions to duplicate their work.  The Italian delégate supported the proposal to  transfer the appropriations for the production of  reading material for new literates to the budget of the  Department of Education. He pointed out in that  connexion that the proposed programme and budget  showed a tendency to disperse funds too widely over  the various sections of the Secretariat; he thought
452  PROGRAMME COMMISSION  the funds allocated to education in all fields - social  sciences, natural sciences or cultural activities -  should be concentrated in the budget of the Department  of Educetion,
(55) -Mr, BENDER (Netherlands) (Representative of  the E:recutive Board) recalled that the delegates of the  United Kingdom and the British Caribbean Group. had  both referred to the financial structure of the Funda-  mental Education Centres, The Executive Board hud  made & ‘thorough examination of that question and had  paid particular attention to the problem of the payment  of stipetids, It had felt that Member States in the  region concerned could give an indication of their  interest in the Centre by offering to bear the cost of  stipends. It had adopted a resalution (44 EX/Deci-  sions, page 12) suggesting that Unesco continue to  assume the cost of stipends in 1957-1958, noting with  satisfaction that gome Member States participating in  ASFEC and CREFAL had decided to bear the cost of  certain stipends in addition to those provided by  Unesco, and proposing that the whole question of  stipend costs be reviewed at thé tenth session,
(56) The CHAIRMAN then called upon the representa-  tive of Pax Romana, who wished to make a statement,
(57) Mr, PANIKKAR (Pax Romana) referred to the  major project on mutual Eagt-West underslanding and  endorsed many of the remarks made during the dis-  cussion of that project by the delegates of India and  Switzerland. He wished to present two general  considerations in relation to the project, the first  being concerned with its denomination, and the second  with its three planes of activity, He wondered whether  the very t title of the project should not be changed to  read "Mutual appreciation of world cultural values",  or "Mutual appreciation of the main ‘cultural values of  the world". ‘He felt that that change would symbolize  a different attitude that corresponded both with the  alms of Unesco and with the views expressed by many  delegates. All countries sought to bring about a  deeper understanding between the peoples of ‘the East  and of the West ard to bridge the gulf that existed  mainly through lack of knowledge, but he feared that  if emphasis yore I laid on Eastern and Western values  and on teaching others about something alien to them,  the result would be a further decpening of existing  difficulties, During the Commission's "discussion of  the project he had detected a slightly propagandist  tendency; the East wanted to teach spirituality to the  materialistic West, the West wanted to help the illi-  terate and hungry peoples of the East to lead a more  worthy human life.’ It was perhaps nof ‘out of plate  that a neutral observer should draw atténtion to the |  real approach that should bé made fo the project: that  the East and the West should try to léarn from each  other by mutual study and a sincere effort of integ-  ration, Furthermore, how should "West" and "East"  be defined, and where was the place of Africa and  Latin América? Unesco should be concerned rather  with seeking the common element from which a world  culture might eventually grow into a harmonious  synthesis, in which unity did not destroy diversity,  than in encouraging propaganda for certain values.  He would therefore suggest that emphasis be placed  not on the East nor on the West, but on existing   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  concrete values that merited world-wide appreciation  and understanding.  Turning to the actual implementation of the project,  Mr. Panikkar felt that a distinction between the  following three plancs of activity would do much to  put the project into its right perspective: (1) the  sphere of creative action, or pure reaearch work,  which might be called the academic level; (2) the  university level, at which belonged the translation of  great works, the revision of textbooks, etc; and (3)  the field of popular education and of mass communica-  tion, with all the means of modern techniques. Acti-  vities should be divided in programme resolutions  according to the level to which they belonged, an  overall balance being maintained between the levels  he had outlined. In addition, a balance should be  maintained between those three levels and all the  main cultural values of the world, Finally,  Mr, Panikkar pointed out that the West represented  neither technique nor science alone, nor was its  culture identifiable with any one period of history.  To take account of the striking variety of ways of life    IV-26  and cultures present in both East and West, it should  not be too difficult to prepare a list of the perennial  values of Eastern and of Western culture which should  be preserved and fostered in a new world culture,
(58) The CHAIRMAN thanked the representative of  Pax Romana for his statement, which had been  received with great interest by all members, He  stated that discussion of the programme of the Dep-  artment of Education would continue at the next  morning meeting of the Commission,
(50) Mr. de HOOG (Netherlands) thought that, when  the Commission came to examine the proposal for  transfer of funds from the Department of Cultural  Activities to the Department of Education, the dele-  gates attending the meeting should include equal  numbers of specialists in education and specialists  in cultural activities. He wished to draw the  Commission's attention to that point.  The meeting rose at 5,45 p.m.  TWENTY - SIXTE MEETING
28 November 1956, at 6,30 p.m.  Chairman; Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)  ITEM 9.4 OF THE AGENDA : CULTURAL ACTIVITIES (continued)  MAJOR PROJECT ON MUTUAL APPRECIATION OF EASTERN AND  WESTERN CULTURAL VALUES (continued) (documents 9C/5,  Corrigendum 1, 9C/PRA/26, 9C/PRG/PROV/2 and 80/DR/106)  {1) In reply to the CHAIRMAN, Mr. THOMAS  (Assistant Director-General) said that document
9C/PRG/PROV/2 took account of the suggestions of  theWorking Party on Major Projects and of the ob-  servations made by various delegations the previous  day during the discussions in the Programme Com-  mission, The revised text differed in the following  respects from the original téxt of draft resolution
4,91 contained in document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1,  Chapter 4A, paragraph 10: in section II, the General  Conference authorized the Executive Board to make  the budgetary arrangements for the project at its first  session in 1957, and invited the Director-General to  continue the preparation of work plans without a break.  Section III gave the Executive Board directives for the  implementation of the project: paragraph A provided,  at the suggestion of the Japanese delegation, for  increased aid to Member States under the Partici-  pation programme, .  In short, the résolution commissioned the Executive  Board to initiate Major Project 4A; there was as yet  no budget for the execution of the work but, as the  Executive Board could not present detailed estimates
453  for a few months, it would be sufficient for the moment  for the Programme Commission to take a decision on  the activities proposed in documents 8C/5 Corrigendum
1 and Corrigendum 4, The Secretariat would give  delegates approximate estimates for the various items  of the existing work plan,
(2) The CHAIRMAN knew that the Commission was  aware that the major project on mutual appreciation  of Eastern and Western cultural values was in a less  finished state than the other major projects, becayse  it had béen elaboratéd only after the summer session  of the Executive Board, Moreover, the voting of a  higher budget end the postponing of the deadline for  the submission of draft resolutions had made it diffi-  cult for the Secretariat to work out definite plans.  The final shaping of the programme would, however,  be the responsibility of the Advisory Committeé which  it was proposed to establish (document 8C/PRG/PROV/2,  page 2), so that thé Commission required only to hold  a general discussion on the project and then take a  vote on the Director-General's revised text of  resolution 4, 91, together with the budget estimates,
(3) Mr. REALE (Italy) said that the italian delegation,  as at the Aix-en-Provence Conference, unreservedly  supported all the major projects, in particular the  one under discussion, which it thought the best calcu-  lated of all to foster international undérstanding. Thé