12 November 1956, at 3,30 p.m.  President; Mr, KFMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  CONTENTS  Discussion of the budget ceiling for 1957-1958 (continued) . 171  DUCUSSION OF THE BUDGET CEILING FOR 1997-1858 (continued)  {l) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):
1 call upon the delegate of Lebanon.  À) Mr, AMMOUN (Lebanon) (Translation from the  French): Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, the  Lebanese delegation and ‘all the delegations of the  countries belonging to the Arab League will support  the joint proposal of Brazil, France, India and Spain,  They will do so for. the reasons already set out in the  draft amendment; namely because there has been an  intrease in the staff salaries that will absorb about  $192, 000 and because the appropriations for the -  major projects are ‘markedly inadequate, These two  reasons alone, we think, suffice, in present circum-  stances, to justify a vote for the draft resolution or  amendment that has been presented to us, May I  join my dear friend and colleague, Professor Carneiro,  in nsking the delegation of the United States to let us  vote for this increase with a light heart, by approving  it themselves, We shall in any case have to vote for  it, but we should much prefer to do so with the sup-  port of the State primarily concerned, whose contri-  bution is being increased. I venture to quote Lamar-  flne who, when asked whether he was sitting on the  left, centre or right of the Chamber of Deputies, re-  pled "I am on the ceiling". This is the appeal we  make to the United States; we should like them to  join us on the ceiling.
(3) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  Teall upon the delegate of the United States of America,  W) Mr. SPILHAUS (United States of America): Mr,  President and féllow delegates, the United States  “delegation supports the budget request made by the  Diréétor-Genéral and opposes the inéréase proposed  by the délegations of Brazil, India, France and Spain.  This position comes from and is consistent with our  ‘éirnest désire for the sound growth of Unesco., We  até mindful of and sympathetic to the considerations  which have led a number of delegations to support an  increase in the prôgramme and budget over that recom-  mended by the Director-General. We feel very  strongly, however, that the success of Unesco, both
171     in its service to Member States and in the continued  support received from Member States, is dependent  upon careful planning of its work and orderly develop-  ment of the processes and techniques of its operations.  Procedures other than those arising from careful .  planning appear to us highly irresponsible and detri-  mental to the achievement of the objectives for which  Unesco stands, Such quick procedures widermine  the confidence of the financial Ministries and Con-  gresses of our. various Member States, whose con-  tinued support we must all secure, as indicated by  our New Zealand colleague,  In response to the points made by the delegate of  Brazil, it is surely not necessary for the United  States to elaborate or. to defend the measure of the  support that it has given to Unesco, not only in sup-  port of the budget financing the Secretariat's activities  but also in our own national programmes; The United  States will be, willing to continue to shoulder its share  of the responsibility for achieving and increasing: .  Unesco's programme, . But, Mr. President, this is  an international Organization; if it is to build well,  it must rest on the stable bases of the support and  co-operation of all the Member States, Financial  support for the activities of an international bureau-  cracy is not the sole - not indeed the most important -  means for achieving the true objectives of the  Organization; _-  With regard to the. effect of the proposal , of the four  powers on contributions, I agree with the position  taken by the, delegate of the Netherlands that the |  quality of the programme planning is as important, .-  at least, as the question of contributions, :However,  I would point out, lest there be serious misunderstand-  ing, that the illustrative. scale of contributions attached  to the report of the Administrative. Commission is hy-  pothetical only. ‘The actual scale will be dependent  on the action of the United Nations General Assembly,  and the United States of America is’ strongly contest-  ing the proposed scale in the United Nations.  Now here, instead of orderly considered planning,  we find that last-minute proposals for programme  and budget expansion are being made, for which there  has been and will be, during this Conference, no  adequate time for the consultation and exploration  necessary for the development of sound plans and   I-13 PLENARY  projects, We think many of these proposals may be  good but we think that they should be considered by  this Conference as suggestions to the Director-  General or the Executive Board for possible inclusion  in the 1959-1960 programme, as suggested by the  delegate of India,  Concern for sound programme development is only  one of the considerations that dictate the United States  position on the budget, It seems to us also very  necessary to keep several other factors in mind.  Delegates will see from the report of the Executive  Board that the Board expressed considerable concern,  and indeed some criticism, of the administrative pro-  cesses within Unesco, An increased appropriation,  in and of itself, is no guarantee of improved progress  toward the programme objectives which all of us  desire, Improved planning on the existing appropria-  tions level might well achieve improved progress.  At the same time that Unesco's regular programme  has been expanding - a sharp increase of more than  $3,500, 000 in the last two years - it has also had a  far greater expansion of its activities through re-  sources made available from the United Nations  Technical Assistance Programme. In 1956, for  example, Unesco's share of the Technical Assistance  Programme has increased by approximately $1, 000, 000  making à total of nearly $5, 000, 000 available from  this source alone.  One further item which needs to be mentioned is  the fact that the Director-General has reported to  the Executive Board and thé Conference that, if cer-  tain proposals now before the United Nations General  Assembly are adopted, the salaries and allowances of  the internationally recruited ‘staff of Unesco will in-  crease by approximately half & million dollars within  the next two-year period, ‘While this is a develop-  ment which can be anticipated, it will not be suffi-  ciently finalized before the Conference adjourns to  enable the amounts involved to be inserted in the  budget. As a result, the Director-General is re-  questing authority to draw upon the Working Capital  Fund for this ‘pürpôsé, This will mean that the bill  will be presented for payment to Member Govern-  ments in the next financial period.  Nor, Mr. President, should we lose sight of the  fact that completion of our new headquarters building  in Paris will take $1, 000, 000 more than contemplated  in the original estimate, This will call for additional  payments from Member States over and above anything  we vote here for thé programme,  With all these considerations in mind, Mr, Presi-  dent, the United States feels it can justifiably support  for the years 1957-1958 à maximum programme  spending level of $21, 600, 000 as recommended by the  Director-General to the Executive Board and Member  States in document 9C/5. We will also Support the  addition of $200, 000 to covér receñt unexpected  salary increases for the General Services staif, and  we will furthermére agree to granting authority to  use the Working Capital Fund to finance any salary  increases that may be necessitated in the two-year  period 1957-1958 as a result of the United Nations  General Assembly action on salaries and allowances  of the professional staff. In supporting all these  measures we féel we are granting as great an in-  crease as the Organization can absorb with proper  planning at the present time. In consequence the
172  MEETINGS  United States of America, while perfectly satisfied  with the long-planned figures of the Director-  General, formally proposes a spending level of  $21, 800, 000 as the absolute ceiling within which our  discussions for the next few weeks shall take place,  This will mean an assessment levol of $22, 489, 473,  The figure for the spending level is $200, 000 above  the figure proposed by the Director-General,
(5) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  I call upon the delegate of Canada.
(6) Mr, BROCKINGTON (Canada); Mr. President,  fellow delegates, 1 want first of all to thank the dele-  gate of Brazil for his moving eloquence, and the  delegates of India and France for the opportunity of  listening to their able advocacy,  I hope the delegate of Brazil will forgive me if}  express my regret at a few words which he spoke,  We of the Canadian delegation thought that his  references to the United States of America in his  speech were not fair. We ara the nearest neighbours  uf the United States of America and we look out over  an imaginary fence which stretches for about thres  thousand miles; we can hear their domestic quarrels,  which do not always sound harmonious, we can see  the washing hanging on their clothes-lines, and that  is not always an exhilarating sight. But we know  their faults perhaps bettér than they do and, like  those who live in goodwill arid good neighbourhood,  I think we know their virtues.  The United States have a giant's strength, and  when, ever before in the history of the world, has  any giant turned so much of his strength to human  benevolence ? In many lands throughout the earth  are monuments of ‘America's wonderful and unselfish  interest in the needs of mankind and the lessening of  man's sorrows; she has been a tower of financial’  strength in the United Natiohs and in Unesco, and |  do not think we intend to - and we certainly should .  not - speak slightingly of her lack of generosity and  of the things which she has not done or does not do,  I think we should rather speak, as I do now, of our  gratitude for the Americans’ many noble examples  of wonderful generosity and for the great things which  they have done.  An English poetess once said: Happy is that natidn  too strong to be dispossessed, but happiest of all is  the nation that is theirs to be strong for the rest. 1  would like at this stage, thereforé, to express  Canada's admiration and gratitude for what the United  States has done in Unesco.  The motives of Brazil and the countries which sippo  the draft resolution are exactly thé same as those  which prompt Canada to vote for and to give support  to the Director-Geneéral's budget, = All our support  as you know, is subject under our system to the tink  approval of the Canadian Parliament. We therefore  support his budget, because he is wise arid has ad-  vocatéd it and because it reflects the judgement of  many neighbour States. We have felt also that there  is a hesitation, and a sort of an uneasy feeling, amon.  some States, that a good many moneys are ‘dissipated  on schemes of doubtful and secondary urgency in-  stead of being concentrated on the completion of  matters of primary urgency. We believe that many  of these schemes are good and useful, but resources   PLENARY MEETINGS I-13  are limited and financial control in many governments  is wisely strong. We know how many great schemes  can be wrecked if appropriations are not planned with  mature deliberation, and expenditure is not made with  due economy, And you will all recall that economy is  a Greek word meaning the management of the house-  hold. .  This house of Unesco has many mansions, and that  calls for no less economy. We recognize the needs,  the desires and the difficulties - and I do not speakin  censure - but my delegation has not found it possible  to examine the large number of new proposals that  reached us after this Conference opened. In addition  to our inability to examine these proposals, the  Canadian authorities in Ottawa have not had an oppor-  tunity to study and comment on them, Furthermore,  the Executive Board itself has not found it possible  to review them in detail and give us its advice. The  machinery of this Conference and of Unesco for re-  viewing budgetary matters is, in our view, inadequate  to deal with these new proposals during the time that  is available, My delegation thinks that it is neither  efficient nor fair to make appropriation of funds for  projects which it has not had the opportunity to ex-  smine or cemment upon, Considering that there is  à lapse of two years between Conferences, it is dif-  ficult to see why the need for this last-minute flood  of new proposals should be upon us again, 1 would  like to suggest strongly that it would not be unreason-  able to expect governments to submit new suggestions  for additions to the programme in time to permit care-  ful scrutiny not only by the Director-General and the  Executive Board but by the Member States themselves,  My instructions do not extend beyond the support of  the Director-General's budget and we have no authority  to vote for one dollar in excess, But as I stand here,
1 hear two voices, Oro is the stern voice of the  Sergeant-Major of the Treasury Board saying: Halt!  not one step further, And I hear also a sort of  whisper suggesting that, as a gesture of goodwill for,  and sympathy with, Brazil and India and Spain and  France and their supporters, we should vote for the  amendment proposed by the United States of America.
1do not know what our Government will think of its  delegates, but I propose to take a calculated risk; the  whisper wins and I vote for the amendment of the  United States.
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):
1 call upon the delegate of Japan.
(8) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) (Translation from the  French): Mr, President, fellow delegates, ladies  and gentlemen, the Japanese delegation thinks that  to fix a rigid ceiling at the beginning of the Conference,  before thorough consideration of the programme and  budget, would be calculated to prevent the General  Conference from adopting certain proposals which  might prove necessary. Yet, by the same logic, 1  do not think it opportune to increase the budget level  by some lump sum before the programme and budget  have been examined in deiafl, Everyone would like  to see a sufficient budget adopted for the implementa-  ton of an adequate programme, with the required  economies, however, being achieved at the same  time. It should be possible to economize, while in-  creasing the funds for certain projects by a concen-
173     tration of our efforts, It is a difficult task but oue  that the General Conference must accomplish, and  the way of accomplishing ft is to fix a provisional  budget level, Accordingly the delegalion of Japan  desires that the original figure proposed by the  Director-General, namely $21,658,638, should be,  adopted as the provisional budget level, I eriphasize  the word "provisional", because the figure veally is  a purely provisional one which we would adopt and,  after considering the programme and budget, revise,  In other words, ! hope a decision wiil be taken today,  but I would like it to be clearly understood that the  General Conference is free to increase the budget  level, if it becomes evident, on examining the pro-  gramme and budget, that such an increase is neces-  sary. In this con::exion I should like three points  to be clarified, so as to enable us to take up a posi-  tion, “  My first request for clarification is addressed to  you, Mr. President, The question on the agenda is  the fixing of a provisional total for the budget. This  morning we adopted the first part of the Administra-  tive Commission's second draft resolution, which  says that: "The General Conference decides that the  percentage of contributions unlikely to be received,  should be fixed for 1957-1958 at 5 per cent.” I  refer to paragraph 38 of document 9C/15 (page 9),  We are now discussing the second part of this  proposal, which says that the assessment level for  the financial year. 1957-1958 should be fixed at "x"  dollars, Mr, President, is it today proposed to fix  this level of "X" dollars by inserting a final figure,  or is it proposed to take a provisional figure which  might serve in some sense as a "target" for the dis-  cussion of the programme and budget ? It seems to  me that the final figure could only be arrived at to-  wards the end of the General Conference, and that  it is perhaps better to adopt today a resolution in-  corporating a provisional figure, with the possibility  of revising it towards the end of the Conference, At  that moment, the second part of the Administrative  Commission's proposals would be adopted with the  final figure. This is the first question 1 wanted to  ask you, Mr. President.  My second question is addressed to the Director-  General, Among the projects in the Annex to  document 9C/5 Corrigendum, and among about 60  draft resolutions presented by Member States, 1  know there are some that have already been studied  by the Secretariat and even by the Executive Board.  Not all of them, however, have been e xamined in  detail by the Secretariat, and, if we adopt the pro-  posal of the four countries, we shall nevertheless  require a fairly detailed work plan in order to assess  the merits of each of the projects suggested, I  should like to ask the Director-General whether he  would be in a position to let us have work plans for  each of the projects that appear in the Corrigendum,  and for the draft resolutions submitted by the differ-  ent Member States, so that we can adopt them in the  course of their consideration by the Programme  Commission. .  Finally, I should like to receive some clarification  from the representatives of the four Governments  which have presented this resolution. I think that  general discussion since the beginning of this ninth  session has revealed the practically unanimous
11-13 PLENARY  feeling of the General Conference that we should  devote greater efforts to the major projects and avoid  dispersing our effort on various projects of smaller  scope. If | interprêt correctly the three paragraphs  beginning with "Noting", or "Further noting", in the  draft resolution of the four’ Governments, there will  be an inevitabfe’ expenditure for increased staff sala-  ries, Two of those paragraphs mention other projects  contained in the Corrigendum and in thé draft resolu-  tions, but I think that, if i have understood correctly,  the general feeling of the Conference is that we should  concentrate on the major projects, Their number  might ultimately be increased from the present three  to four or five, according to requirements, assuming  that it is everybody's wish to concentrate our efforts  on major projects, In that case, would the represen-  tatives of the four Governments of Brazil, France,  India and Spain agree to an amendment allotting a  certain percentage, say 80 per cent, of the increase  solely to major projects. If so, we should know  where the increase went, and the various delegations  would be u.le to decide more easily with regard to  the four Governments! proposal,
(8) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  I call upon the delegate of the United Kingdom.
(10) Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom)! Mr.  President and fellow delegatés, I think we would all  agree that this {s always one of the most difficult  meetings that we have to go through at a Genera! Con-  ference; and I think that stems Very largely from the  fact that we are still a young Organization seeking for  ways and means of doing our business expeditiously,  It (might, Mr, President, I would like to suggest  that our discussion this afternoon be set against that  broad background and not conceived of exclusively  in terms of rival amendments and counter -resolutions,  We are ten years old, ‘which is not very old; and we  have been reminded already that we are face to face  with at least three major problems that cannot be  solved today, We have béen reminded that we have  before us supplementary resolutions of different kinds  that we find in official documents, projects which  have not been iricluded within the projects that the  Director-General commends to us; and it is argued  that some provision should be made for them. We of  the United Kingdom are in full sympathy with the  delegate of India, - when he says that this is a separate  problem, a separate constitutional problem, which  must be dealt with in a constitutional way; ‘and we are  in full sympathy with the suggestion whlch he made,  almost lightheartedly - but I think there was a great  deal of subatance to it - that supplementary resolutions  and items should not be included in the official pro-  gramme, but should become subjects of debate in a  Conference of this kind, in order to enable ourselves  and the Director-General and the Secretariat to form  a view as to the opinion of the Conference, so that  these items may in due course find their way into  future programmes,  The second problem, Mr. President, is this: this  is the first occasion on which an official Executive  Board has presented, or has been brought into co-  operation with the Director-General in order to assist  him to formulate, the programme and budget that he  puts before you. And ] think that members of the
174     MEETINGS  Conference should be fully conversant with that  fact - that this is a programme now presented to  us by the Director-General, upon which the Executive  Board has recogitated on at least two occasions, and  that it comes to us after discussion with official  representatives of the governments involved, s0 as  to enable the Director-General, in presenting this  document to us, to be fully aware of the views of  governments as expressed by their representatives  in the Executive Board. It is interesting to note  that three of those governments are identified with  the draft resolution now before us,  The third problem, Mr, President, is the dif-  ficulty of providing for supplementary estimates,  Now I would say that the danger in the draft resolu-  tion which is now being considered, in the names of  the Govirnments of Brazil, France, India and Spain,  is that it is trying to present supplementary estimates  in advance, You cannot, Mr. President, present  supplementary estimates in advance, and this  Organization has not yet attained that degree of con-  stitutional maturity that would enable it in due course,  as desirable measures become important, to antiel-  pate budgets by asking for supplementaries before  official budgets are actudlly sanctioned.  I would therefore say, Mr, President, that the  United Kingdom recognizes the existence of these  three long-term major difficulties at this time, and  suggests that, in the interests of this Organization,  the budget which should be approved at this particular  session is the one that, for the first time, carries’  with it the corporate thinking of the official represen  tatives of governments on the Executive Board and the  Director-General, We must also recognize the exis-  tence of the problem involved in supplémentary items,  and in items not included in official programmes, and  we must likewise recognize that the problem of the  provision of supplementary money is a real one, and  it cannot, if I may repeat, be dealt with in anticipation  Now, therefore, Mr, President, we of the United  Kingdom pay very great attention to this document  that has been présented to us by the Director-  General; we regard ourselves as involved in it; we  have received in our country his suggestions; they  have been considered by oir Government, they have  been considered by our National Commission; the  representative of that Government has presented its  views in the Executive Board; the proposals in modi-  fied form have come back again to our Government,  and our Government has examined them, and the  National Commission, within'the limit of time; has  also done so. I pay my friends, my colléagues and  fellow delegates the compliment of believing that :  they have also done the same, and to that extent they  are involved, 8s officials, in the proposals now before  us. What do wé see, Mr, President ? We see heré  the chief Executive Officer of this Organization, after  careful thought extending over a period of 15 months,  asking us for a given sum of money, in order to en-  able his Organization to bear the weight which he  believes it can bear. That is what he is doing. He  believes that this is the weight that this Organization  can now bear, He sees his Organization articula-  ting itself into various clear and well-defined forms  of activities; he sees Technical Assistance growing  he sees the stabilization of the grants and subventions  to non-governmental organizations; and now he sees   PLENARY  the great possibility of getting najor projects well  and truly established so that those four methods of  action of his Organization can be pressed forward,  Wé of the United Kingdom fully identify ourselves  with this statesmanlike approach to the development  of the work of this Organization, » We would further  say two things to our friends who remind us that.  spparently one million and a half dollars are going to  be returned, which will consequently soften the blow  of any proposed increase in the budget on this occasion.  This money is ours; it is money that has been paid by  our governments to this Organization in order to  enable the Organization to do its work, The Organi-  sation has, through successive years, been unable  to use the money which our governments have put at  its disposal, That money, in accordance with the  Financial Regulations, is being returned to the Member  States that have contributed it, properly and without  interest. The second thing that I would say on that  point, Mr. President, is this: will our friends re-  member that, if they pounce on this budget (and I  hope they will not) for the next twoyears, using the.  argument that there is a million and a half dollars  available to take the pressure off and to soften the  blow, the full weight of that blow will have t be borne  in two years time, And what will our governments  say when they have to face a position of that kind ?  Ibelieve, Sir, that the recommendation of the  Director-General, which is now the substantive  motion before us, is one that should commend itself  tous in the name of statesmanship, and it is one with  which the United Kingdom is fully identified,  M you will allow me, Mr. President, to make one  or two remarks, they will be these, We of the United  Kingdom bow to no Member States in our sympathy  for the underdeveloped countries, in our eagerness  to see that Unesoo should, in due course, acquire the  strength and the means increasingly to face up to  greater responsibili 14%, We are not second to any-  body in a general uim of that kind, But at this par-  ticular stage we would say this, It is going too far  to ask for $1, 000, 000 as a symbol; as one of the  speakers has said; a symbol of $1, 000, 000 is very  expensive, It is also unfair, Mr. President, to  ask us to accept $1, 000, 000 because it is small, May  {remind you of the excuse of the unmarried lady who  pleaded that her fault was not great when she had a  baby because it was small; an indiscretion does not  change its quality because of its size, and we would  plead here, today, that this is an indiscretion, in the  name of this Organization, which we would seek to  avoid,  Mr. President, my concluding remark is this,  Fundaraentally this is not a question of money; it is  not a question of other people's money; the less we  talk about other people!s money the better, This is  s question of personnel, this is a question of avail-  ability of experts; the people, fellow delegates, are  not available, Our Organization, Unesco, is at its  wits! end to find people to do the work that is now  committed to it, and we know that the experts are  Berd run. in this international field, for great as our  difficulties may be in the national field, they are in-  finitely greater and infinitely more complex in the  international field, and we do well to make haste Yery  steadily and very slowly in this particular field.  It is for this reason, Mr. President and fellow
175     MEETINGS 1-13  delegates; that the United Kingdom believes that  this Conference should, in all conscience, and lnok-  ing toward the future, accept the figure that is now  presented to it by the Director-General,
(11) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):
1 call upon the delegate of Israel,
(12) Mr, AVIDOR (Israel): Mr, President, fellow  delegates, we have heard this morning and this after-  noon so much talk, so many speeches; so much time  has been spent on whether or not to increase the  meagre budget of this august Organization, embracing  most of humanity, by one half of $1, 000, 000 a year -  which {s a small amount even in the budgets of the  smallest Member States represented here. Indeed,  as Professor Carneiro has put it, it is almost a  shame to discuss such an increase.  The time has arrived for the representatives of  governments at this Conference, not only to offer  high-sounding phrases about the lofty aims and the  urgent needs of Unesco, but alsé to vote for in-  creased amounts of money, The time has arrived,  at the beginning of the second decade of the existence  of this Organization, to plan for more intensive ac-  tivities, for greater efforts and larger and more  suitable budgets, Ten years may be a short time  in the lives of long-established States and developed  countries, but it {s a long time for younger countries,  for less-developed countries. To argue that thé  Director-General himself did not propdse a larger  budget sounds a bit strange. The Director-General  and the Secretariat have to work within the framework  of the budget approved by the Conference, It would  be a sad day for the Organization if the Director-  General were to say - which he did not - that he has  too large a budget at his disposal, and the Secretariat  is unable to use it wisely and efficiently, Careful  planning is indeed necessary, but we are voting for  a two-year budget, and there is plenty of time for  the Secretariat and the Member States to plan to  spend the additional $1,000,000, a smaller part in
1957, and a larger part in 1958,  Details do not have to be worked out now at this ‘  Conference; we can entrust that to the Secretariat  and the Executive Board, Thelsraeli delegation  supports the proposal of the four Member States,  and serves notice that at the tenth session of the  Conference, unless the Director-General steals the  show from it, it will endesyaur to bring forth a some-  what bolder proposal for a more intensive programme  and an even greater budget.
(13) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian): -
1 call upon the delegate of India.
(14) Mr. SAIYIDAIN (India): Mr. President and  fellow delegates, I find myself ranged against an  impressive array of speakers, particularly from the  English-speaking countries. In order to show that  there is no "political collusion" amongst those who  speak English, 1 think it is necessary for me to make  it quite clear that we jave an entirely different point  of view with regard to what has been said by dele-  gates from New Zealand, the United Kingdom, the  Netherlands, the United States of America, and  several other countries! I really find it difficult to   I-13 PLENARY  take seriously the arguments that have been advanced,  and my feeling is that they have been trying to use  their great powers over the English language, and their  intelligence, to bolster up a very weak case, Ido  not propose to go afresh into the merits of the case,  that was presented to you eloquently by my distingui-  shed friend the delegate of Brazil, but I would like to  show in a few minutes that the three or four arguments  which have been advanced against this proposal are too  flimsy to be taken seriously by thls Conference,  The first argument is that it will take a great deal of  time to formulate the schemes that have been presented  and to recruit the staff for the purpose, The delegate  of the United Kingdom went even further and said that  the technical personnel required for the development  of these schemes would simply not be available, 1  find it difficult to believe that for schemes worth  $21, 000, 000, approved by the corporate thinking and  collective wisdom of the Executive Board, the tech-  nical staff would be available but that, if we add there-  tothe meagre sum of $1, 000, 000 it would be impossible  to find, in about 80 Member States, qualified staff who  could work out those schemes. Infact, the speaker  went further and complained that Unesco would not be  able to "digest" this petty increase. I am not quite  sure that Unesco has such a poor digestion as all that,  If that were true, the Director-General would certainly  not have complained that what Unesco was suffering  from was not the paucity of ideas but the paucity of  funds. I remember a debate in the Indian Parliament  when one of the Ministers in charge of a constructive  department, replying to the critics on the other side,  said: " We complain not because our brains are empty,  but because our pockets aré empty", Are we to infer  that in Unesco not only our pockets but also our brains  are empty ?  We are operating at present a large number of  schemes bearing on this problem of East and West  understanding, which have been going on for some  years, Under this new major project we want to  bring these scheines together and to introduce a cer-  tain number of other ‘schemes, 80 that we may be able  to make a vital impact on this great problem. Now,  what we are asked to believe is that the total amount  of $120, 000; ‘which is to be spent over two years and  has been sét apart for all thé new schemes bearing  on this major projéct, is all that Unesco would be able  to assimilate. . If.I were inclined to carry that argu-  ment to its reductio ad absurdum, I would ventuie to  point out that this would mean that, for this project -  which many of us sincerely believe should be envisaged  as a major project, which some of us are even rash  enough to believe can make a genuine contribution to  the improvement of international understanding - we  are providing, on an average, the magnificent sum of  $1,500 per Member State, which is about 7, 000 rupees  in Indian money and about £500 in British moriey, to  be spent over two years! And thé argument which is  seriously advanced against increasing this amount is  that Unesco would not be able to formulate effective,  logical and cohérent schemes of a larger order, or  that persons who can work them out would not be avail-  able. It has also even been suggested that to ask for  more money than has been asked for by the Director-  General, with the authority of the Executive Board, °  would not add to the reputation of Unesco. That was  said by no less a distinguished delegate than my  MEETINGS
176  friend from New Zealand, If that is "risking the  reputation of Unesco", we have been doing it .  regularly for the last five or six years, and it is  precisely because some of us have insisted over and  over again, and have been only too happy to take that  welcome risk, that the budget of Unesco has slightly  increased. Again, it was suggested that the draft  programme had been prepared by the Director-  General and the Executive Board because they were  firmly convinced that more money could not be usé-  fully pent on the programme, I think that is putting  the argument in a somewhat misleading manner, The  Director-General - if I am wrong, I hope he will  correct me - and the Executive Board had before them  a certain indication or directive as to the total amount  of money they could expect and, therefore, within  that amount they had to prepare a cerfain programme,  I am happy to be able to concede that they have given  a great deal of thought to it, but they have been trying  to cut their coat according to the cloth that they thought  would be available for them,  If we in this General Conference decide that it is  possible for us to increase that amount by the modest  sum of $1,000, 000, I have not the slightest doubt that  the Office of the Director-General and the Executive  Board would be able to formulate and work any addi- -  tional programmes. successfully, Sir, I would have  no quarrel whatever with those who are opposed to:  the resolution saying, frankly, "We are not preparéd  to spend more money on these purposes", As the:  distinguished delegate of the United Kingdom sald,  "We have a great deal of sympathy with the under-  developed countries" - though in this particular reso-  lution we, on this side, wére not thinking of the under-  developed countries as such - "but we feel that more  money should not be spent on Unesco", To put the  argument, however, in a form as if this was bad bud-  geting, as if it was impossible to make proper use  of this money, is, I think, to confuse the entire issue  with which we are concerned, © Again, the distinguishe  delegate of the United States of America was prepared  to concede that a small increase could be made - 1  could not catch the exact point of his remark, but  perhaps it was for increasing the local salaries. The  distinguished and gracious delegate of Canada supporte  this point of view,  Now I will put it to you, - Is it fair to say ‘that we  can find the money for increasing local salaries, but  that it is difficult for us to find any money ‘for streng-  thening some of these important major projècts où  which I believe the entire Conference has set its heart’  ‘The Canadian delegate suggested that a ceriain amount  of money might be voted out of regard for ‘the four  countries that have sponsored this ‘resolution. “I speal  for myself, but I have no doubt my co-sponsors would  agree with me, that we do not want this amount of  money to be voted out of regard for any delegation  or any resolution. We want to take our stard on the  merits of the case; we feel profoundly convinced that  the meagre amounts which are provided for the ‘major  projects are entirely inadequate. I believe wrong  budgeting and false economy come in, not when you  give adequate funds to strengthen and properly or-  ganize what you are going to do, but when you want  to do things in such a niggardly manner that, while  money to the tune of $120, 000 will be spent on the  East/West project, no great or perceptible impact -   PLENARY  will be made on the situation, We have two years in  which we can plan this project, Some of us in the  Executive Board and others in their National Com-  mission have given thougit to this project. The Sec-  retariat has formulated about 20 or more different  schemes which directly and indirectly come into it.  There is, for example, the great scheme of the tran-  slation of classics, which alone could absorb any  amount of funds, Therefore, in all sincerity, I'do  not see why it should be difficult tor. our collective  wisdom to formulate à practicable programme which  would be wise, economical, judicious, would have all  the other qualities to which the delegate of the United  Kingdom referred, and would satisfy all reasonable  criteria for successful projects,  One final argument that has been put forward is:  "We have not had the time to consult our respective  governments" about this small inérease that has been  proposed, 1 grant you the technical validity of this  argument, but I would like to point out that at least  two of the important delegations who are opposed to  the resolution as a whole have given away the case by  conceding that they are prepared to vote for a smaller  increase in the budget than has been asked for, All  that I ask of you is a slightly larger measure of faith,  i have no doubt that, even after all of us had voted  this extra amount, ft Would be technically within the  competence of any ‘States govérnment to say that they  are not in a position to méet this increased expen-  diture, But considering the very small amount of  increase that would be involved in a large majority  of cases, I find it'difficult to believe that any State  would actually take that stand,  - So put it to you, Sir,‘ and put it to this Conference,  that so far as the main arguments are concerned -  namely that the thing is riot feasible, or practicable  or expedient - they really do not apply, We have the  technical personnel, we have the schemes - which  will, of course, have to be examined in greater detail  later, like all other schemes - and it is possible for  us to utilize the proposed increase effectively, I  have, therefore, great pléasure in commending this  resolution once again to your consideration.
(15) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):
1 call upon the delegate of Italy,
(16), Mr. BADINI CONFALONIERI (italy) (Translation  from the French)t Mr. President, the delegation ‘of  supports thé. aniehdment proposed by the United  Pei to the effect that the level of expenditure should  bé fixed at $21, 800, 000; The very moderate increase  that this represents in relation to the Director-  General's proposals is amply justified by the increase  already foreseen in local salaries, and by projects  that have been adequately studied,  On the othér hand, we could not accept any greater  increase - both for purely financial reasons and be-  cause it is necessary that there be a gradual but at  the same time sufficiently well-thought-out expansion  in Unesco's activities. The work of the Programme  Commission will in any case be clearly useful, not  only in the matter of recasting and adjustment to pre-  sent possibilities, but because of the essential guidance  it will give for subsequent developments in the budget  for the coming years. To this end, and in order to  avoid the General Conference's being once more
177     MEETINGS 1-13  placed in the regrettable position of having to examine  projects submitted to it rather late, it might be use-  ful to request the Executive Board to consider this  problem urgently after the end of the present session  and to suggest a satisfectory method of work; -  Equally, I could not support the Japanese proposal  for a provisional ceiling which could be substantially  modified at the end of the Conference, after the Pro-  gramme Commission has concluded its discussions.  This system has already. been tried before and the  experiment was not successful, since it caused a  certain amount of confusion and some uncertainty in  the work of the Programme Commission.  For these reasons, ‘the delegation of Italy will vote  for the United States! amendment concerning the bud-  get ceiling, while expressing the hope that the method  to be employed for the study and presentation of new  proposals will be {thoroughly considered well ahead  of the next session of the Conference.
(17) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian}:  I call upon the delegate of Denmark.
(18) Mr, NIELSEN (Denmark): Mr, President, 1  agree with you that this programme which has been  put before us by the Director-General has been per-  fectly clear this year,” more thoroughly worked through  in all its details, and more thoroughly discussed with  Member States and with the Executive Board than any  earlier programme of Unesco, . We in our country  take it very seriously into consideration to examine  its details, and we are prepared to back it up; and  that is as far as my instructions from my Government  go.  However, Mr, President,’ 1 am in a situation similar  to that described by thé hônourable delegate of Canada,  There have also been Whisperirigs in my ear, and  since the United States delegate has made én appeal  for an addition which would, to some degreé, balance  the increased staff costs ‘which we have before us -  an appeal which has just been seconded by thé honour-  able delegate of Italy - I for one, and our delegation,  will take upon éursèlves thé responsibility of voting  for the inérease of $200, 000 above the level proposed  by the Director-General, ‘  Mr. President, 1 could leave it at that,” in order to  spare the time of the Conference, but if you will allow  me two or thrée minutes I would very much lke to -  add one remark, [It has been’ ‘striking to me {6 hear,  from those who are advocating the resolution of the  four countries before | us, what are the reasons they  give. On the'one hand, they speak of the sup ort of  Unesco's ‘{déals and the Increase in its possi ps ties,  Well, 1 do not for orig. moment doubt that this i$ their  main moving reason; on thé other hand, I think they  will agree that this thinking is not the monopoly of  anybody. But what they advanced, so to speak, on  the technical side of the question, were, on the one  hand, the plans described in the Annex to document
8C/5, Corrigendum 1 which the Director-General  has not seen his way to incorporate fn the draft pro- -  gramme before us, as he wanted to stick to the bud-  gat level which hé had set for himself; and, on the  other, the draft résolutions presented by Member  States. This is a point on which, I am sorry to say,  I must disagree with my colleague, His Excellency  Ambassador Haguiwara, who knows in what kind   n-13 PLENARY MEETINGS  respect I hold him, I disagree with him on two points.  First of all, 1 am afraid -‘as I think was also said by  the delegate of Italy - that it we confine ourselves to  setting a target at which we aim with our budget, we  are going to have the whole discussion coming up  again in the plenary at the end of our session, and that  will upset the sound drawing-up of the results of this  Conference,  The second point is his appeal, or his wish expressed  to the Director-General, to have the work plans of all  these draft resolutions, numbering between 60 and 60,  put before the General Conference, Fellow delegates,  it we think responsibly, we cannot at this juncture,  while the whole machinery of the General Conference  is in motion, place upon the Secretariat the additional  burden of working out work plans for such a diversity  of different and new proposals, 1 think it is simply  impossible to carry that through,  This question comes up at every General Conference,  We know from experience - those who have taken part  in the work of the Programme Commission at earlier  sessions of the General Conference - how this flood  of draft resolutions is bound to upset the normal  working ¢f the Programme Commission; and at every  point, in every Départment, these draft resolutions  come in, and must be weighed .against the other points  in the programme, On the other hand, Ido not want  to be misunderstood, ladies and gentlemen; I strongly  want to maintain the right of the Member States to  suggest activities for Unesco, It is true that the pro-  gramme before us is the programme of the Director-  General, and it is his responsibility. Again, it would  be a blow to cur Organization if we prevented Member  States from putting forward their suggestions, their  wishes and their ideas as to what Unesco could  reasonably undertake in order to serve its aims, We  also know that the Director-General wants to know the  wishes of Member States in that respect, But my  point, Mr. President - and that means again the view  expressed by the delegate of Canada, and also by the  delegate of Italy - is this: - when this General Con-  ference is dissolved in December, every Member  State knows what is In the programme, every Member  State knows what Unesco is going to do for the next.  two years; why should they not at that moment try to  strike a balance as to which of their wishes have gone  into the programme and which of their proposals have  not? And why should they not in the year, say, follow-  ing the General Conference, make up their minds which  proposais they would like put to the Organization for  possible inclusion in the future programme ? If that  were done, the best of them at least could be taken  into consideration, could be incorporated in the normal  programme, which would enormously ease the ma-  chinery of the Programme Commission at the next  session of the General Conference. And they could  also - and that is perhaps the point which meets the  objection raised here by several delegations - be  placed, intime, before othér Member States for their  approval, or for their remarks or comments,  Mr. President, I sincerely hope that before this  General Conference breaks up in December some re-  commendation will be put forward to the Secretariat  and to the Executive Board, asking them to bear these  points in mind, and asking them to try to devise .  machinery for the next General Conference which will  save us from this struggle about last-minute draft
178     resolutions at the very moment when the  Conference opens,
(10) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian);  The Director-General bas asked for permission to  speak in reference to the remarks of Ambassador  Haguiwara.
(20) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: Mr, President,  Ambassador Haguiwara asked if the Secretariat had  work plans, or could produce them, for the items in  the Annex to the Corrigendum, and the proposals con.  tained in draft resolutions, As regards the Annex,  we have in most cases already prepared and laid  before you the work plans that will go with those  proposals, Some of these work plans were trans-  ferred from document 8C/5 because, in absorbing  the increases which the Board recommended at its  July session, we had to squeeze some of these things  out of the budget. 1 think that, in general, these  work plans are comparable in quality with the work  plans in the proposed programme and budget. For  other items we did not bave time for mature reflec-  tion, as for instance, in the case of the projects lis-  ted under paragraphs 81 through 102," As to the draft  resolutions, some of them have been covered toa  greater or lesser degree in the Annex,  As regards the draft resolutions in general, the  Secretariat has been working to prepare work plans  and estimates of costs, In some cases we could give  the Programme Commission good work plans; in  some cases we would have to give rather preliminary  drafts; and in the case of the Israeli draft resolution,  increasing the major projects by $600, 000, we would  not be able to produce complete work plans during  this session of the Conference,
(21) The PRESIDENT (Translation from thé Russian):  Fellow delegates, we have to finish our work today  by 5 o'clock so as to be in time for the reception to  which the President of the Republic of India has in-  vited the delegates to the General Conference, We,  have only about five minutes left, and I have two more  speakers on my list. Obviously we shall not have  time to hear them, and othérs may want to put their  names down, It is clear, therefore, that we shall ‘  not finish the debate on this question today, Allow ‘  me a few minutes, then, to sum up the position, in ;  order to make if easfer for my successor in the Chair  to pick up the threads, if he is not the President of  the General Conference and one of the Vice-Pres{dents  is called upon to preside over the subsequent proceed-  ings. 1 hope, however, that the President of the  General Conference will be here tomorrow and will  conduct the proceedings himself,  The position we have arrived at is this: several  different proposals have been made with regard to  the budget ceiling.  THe first proposal, that of the Director-General,  was first considered by the Executive Board, which  ‘discussed it at several meetings; the figure pro-  posed was known to Member States, and it appears  in all the documents. This proposal was supported  by the delegates of New Zealand, the Netherlands  and the United Kingdom, and, with certain reserva-  tions, by the delegates of Canada, Denmark and  Japan,   PLENARY MEETINGS  Next we have the draft resolution submitted by a  group of States - Brazil, France, India and Spain -  seeking to raise the budget ceiling proposed by the  Director-General by $1,000,000, This proposal was  supported by the delegates of Israel, Lebanon and  Peru; and the Brazilian delegate, Mr, Carneiro, in  recommending it to the Conference, said that res-  ibility for the greater part of the contribution re-  quired to provide this million-dollar increase would,  he supposed, be assumed hd the United States of  "America, .  Then a third proposal was made, this time by the  delegate of the United States of America, who sald  that, in view of the careful consideration which had  previously been given to this matter, his delegation  vas ready to vote in favour of the Director-General!s  proposal, The new ‘proposal had come as something  of a surprise to the United States delegation, but,  taking a number of other factors into account, that  delegation would be prepared to vote in favour of a  budget increase of not $1, 000, 000 but $200, 000,  -This third proposal was supported by the delegates  of Canada and Italy,  Lastly, a proposal was made by Japan, to the effect  that the figure suggested by the Director-General  should be adopted provisionally now, and that subse-  quently, in the light of the further discussion of the  programme, a final figure should be adopted towards  the end of the Conference,  Certain objections to this proposal were raised by  the delegates of Denmark and Italy, and by the Director-  General,  Such is the position in which we are leaving the  question today.  May I ask you, teltow delegates, to consider just  two points ? Ome is that - as we have seen and, as  it seemed to me, with your consent - we did not adopt  a strictly procedural ‘approach, that is, we did not  proceed simply to put the amendment submitted to us  to the vote without allowing delegates an opportunity  to speak on the substance of the matter. Consequently  the debate which took place was not confined to the new.  proposal, submitted by a group of States, for increas-  ing the budget by $1, 000, 000; every speaker, to a  greater or lesser extent, expressed his views on the  figure proposed by the Director-General,  So we have a situation from which one preliminary  comraent may be made; none of the speakers wanted  the figure proposed by the Director- General to be  reduced, This means that this figure was, during the  debate, accepted or largely accepted as some kind of  à ceiling by nearly all speakers, All that gave rise  to discussion was that some speakers thought it ad-  visable to raise this ceiling, while others said it must  be left intact, and others, again, considered that it  ought to be raised, not by $1,000, 000, but by $200, 000,  The first conclusion we can draw from our discus-  sion is that the figure proposed by the Director-  General has been received, in preliminary debate,  th an absence of objections.  {The second point is that, had we adopted the pro-  cedural approach and immediately put the amendment  fo the vote without any discussion - as we might have  done - we should not have reaped the rich harvest of  viewpoints and intéresting arguments which have un-  doubtedly helped our work forward.  In conclusion, fellow delegates, may I draw your
179  o-13  attention to Rule 78, paragraph 8, of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference ? - This Rule  is entitled "Proposals and Amendments", and its  paragraphs lay down the procédure for discussing and  taking decisions upon amendments affecting éither  the draft programme, new-activities ahd so forth, or  the budget estimates submitted for our approval,  Paragraph 6 deals with precisely the case with which  we are confronted; {it provides that draft resolutions  or amendments which have budgetary repercussions  must be referred to the Advisory Committee on Pro-  gramme and Ivdget for its consideration and opinion  and that in such cases the discussion on the question  shall be deferred to allow the Committee the neces-  sary time, which shall not exceed fôrty-eight hours.  We are dealing with a draft amendment to the  Director-General's budget figure, which directly  affects the budget estimates.  Many speakers have emphasized the irregularity  of a situation where a'document on financial matters,  with obvious financial repercussions - a specifically  budget document - is received by delegates just at  the opening of the meeting. at which the question is  to be discussed, Naturally most delegates were put  in a difficult position, because they had not been able  to consider the question at home in their National  Commissions, or even within their own delegations,  The case we are confronted with is provided for in  Rule 78, paragraph 8. If you agree, it can be  referred fo the Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget for a decision within forty-eight hours.  The interval would, in addition, give all delegations  an opportunity to think over and discuss, if they wish,  the document presented by Brazil, France, India and  Spain,  I cannot urge any particular course now, and I  simply state the facts - not giving a ruling from the  Chair - to show where matters stand with regard to  this question, in the belief that, at tomorrow's plenary  meeting which will be devoted to the problem, the  Conference will be able to take a decision one way or  another,  I shall now adjourn the meeting, but first I call  upon the delegate of Brazil,
(22) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  (Translation from the French): Mr. President, it is  with great surprise that I heard your proposal to ad-  journ this meeting at 5 o'clock in the afternoon so -  that we might pay our respects to His Excellency the  President of the Republic of India, Nobody could be  more anxious than we, who at Montevideo were the  original voters in favour of holding this session in  India, to pay our respects to the Government of the  host country, But 1 feel sure His Excellency will  understand perfectly well that, when the higher in-  terests of Unesco are involved, it would not be un-  seemly for us to arrive at his reception half an hour  late, especially as some of our delegates will in fact  be able to arrive on time, Secondly, Mr. President,  it would be the first time in ten years that a discus-  sion on the budget ceiling had been adjourned for a
48-hour reconsideration of the matter by a small  Committee which is not yet even definitively consti-  tuted within our Commission. 1 would therefore  ask, Mr, President, that we continue this meeting  and, subsequently, take a vote.
(23) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  Fellow delegates, it seemed to me that the question  of adjourning the meeting was settled in that, having  received an invitation from the President of the Re-  public of India, we ought to attend this reception with  gratitude, To do so would give us all great pleasure  and would be an expression of our deep respect for the  country which is giving us hospitality and for its -  President, who is its representative and its supreme  repository of power, As a matter of course, there-  fore, the view was taken in the General Committee to-  day that our meeting should end at 5 o'clock or, if  you prefer, should be suspended. I am rather sur-  prised at the new proposal now made by the delegate  of Brazil, and 1 do not think it is a very realistic  idea that we can dispose of the question in half an  hour or that many of us could manage to arrive at  the reception on time, There are still names of  delegates who wish to speak. If I observe the Rules  of Procedure of the General Confererice and all the  principles of democracy , I have not the slightest  right to refrain from calling upon delegates who have  regularly indicated that they wish to express their  views on this subject, That is why I thought, fellow  MEETINGS
180  delegates, that it was impossible for us to continue  now, without at least suspending the meeting in order  that we might pay our sincere respècts, with due cour  tesy, to the President of the Republic, 1 did not  want to submit for your consideration any proposal  that the matter be or be not referred to the Commit-  tee, I simply sketched for you the position in which  we were leaving the matter, and I asked you at the  same time, as you will remember, to consider a cer-  tain Rule of the Rules of Procedure, to ponder on it  and to decide whether or not it applied to the case.  before us, I made no proposal on the subject what-  ever, I simply reviewed the position from various  aspects and mentioned that a Rule existed which might  be applicable to the case with which we are confronted  I hope, fellow delegates, that you will now allow me  to close the meeting or to suspend it, Whenever yo  please we can resume the discussion, but I hope that,  since we have been invited by the President of the  Republic, we shall be able to attend his reception.  Are there any other objections to this proposal? No.  The meeting is closed. Thank you, fellow delegates  The meeting rose at 5 p.m,