PROGRAMME  over the world to inform their pupils about Unesco,
(43) The CHAIRMAN, replying to the delegate of  Afghsnistan, stressed that all general aspects of the  programme could be covered during the general  FOURTH  COMMISSION IV-4  debate; but there would also be opportunities to dis-  cuss it later in greater detail,  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  MEETING
14 November 1956, at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)  ESTABLISHMENT OF WORKING PARTIES
(1) The CHAIRMAN announced that she had received  notices from delegations for representation on the  various working parties as follows:  Working Party No, 1: Draft international regulations  regarding archaeological excavations and competitions  in architecture and town planning: Brazil, France,  Federal Republic of Germany, Indonesia, Iran, Italy,  Laos Lebanon; Malaya-British Borneo Group, Nether-  lands, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United  States of America, Yugoslavia.  Working Party No. 2: - Major Projects: Argentina,  Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Union of  Burma, Canada, China, Colombia, Czechoslovakia,  Denmark, Egypt, France, Federal Republic of Ger-  many, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Lebanon, Liberia,  Malaya - British Borneo Group, Mexico, Netherlands,  New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan; Panama, Philip-  pines, Poland, Spain, Sweden,. Switzerland, Syria,  Turkey, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United  Kingdom, United States of America, Venezuela,  Yugoslavia, J  Working Party No, 3: Fundamental education: |  Argentina, Brazil, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Re-  public, Canada; China, Colombia, Czechoslovakia,  Denmark, Ecuador, ‘Ethiopia, Finland, France,  Guatemala, India, Italy, Japan, Laos, Liberia,  Malaya-British Borneo Group, Mexico, Morocco,  Netherlénde, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philip-  pines, Spain, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Re-  public, United Kingdom, United States of America.  Working Party No.4: History of the Scientific and  Cultural Development of Maakind; Austria, Bulgaria,  Canada, China, France, Federal Republic of Germany,  India, Italy, Japan, -Malaya-British Borneo Group,  Mexico, Norway, Pakistan, Philippines, Rumania,  Spain, Turkey, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,  United States of America.  She suggested that the Commission agree on the  composition of the working parties as above, on the  understanding that other delegates could attend meet-  ings and be co-opted later,  Agreed.
(2) Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) (Representative of  the Executive Board) reminded the Commission, in  view of the large membership of the working party on  major projects, that it was only to discuss general  policy and administrative problems involved in major  projects, and not their substance.  {3) The CHAIRMAN added that the working parties  would hold their meetings while the Programme Com-  mission was in session. There was no doubt that  some delegations would discover that representatives  could not be found to attend all the meetings, and the  size of the working parties would thus be reduced by  a natural process of elimination,  ITEM 9 OF THE AGENDA: CONSIDERATION oF PART I! OF THE  PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1957-1958 (documents
9C/5 and Addenda and Corrigenda) — GENERAL DISCUSSION (continued)
(4) Mr. JORDANA DE POZAS (Spain) thought the pro-  gramme under consideration differed from the pre-  ceding ones because it showed a concern for continuity  which had been lacking earlier. Although he con-  sidered it excellent, he had a few comments to make  upon it; he thought that it should continue to be  arradged under the headings of general activities,  special activities, and major projects.  With regard to the activities of National Commis-  sions, Mr, Jordana de Pozas stated that his delegation  fully appreciated the importance of those bodies and  agreed with the views expressed at the meetings of  European and Asian National Commissions at Aix-en-  Provence and Tokyo. It was in favour of regional con-  tacts of that sort; and wished to suggest that an inter-  regional meeting of National Commissions from the  Mediterranean area, for instance, be held, which  might help in the work of co-ordination recommended  in the programme,  Referring to the statement of the representative of  the World Federation of Trade Unions on the need for  Unesco to interest itself in workera' education, he  stated that his country had done much very good work  in ail fields related to that question, especially through  the so-called workers' universities, which provided  the basis of a humanistic education as well as technical  and professional training.   IV-4  +  Dealing néxt with the importance of the major pro-  jects, he said that Spain had on many occasions ex- -  rressed approval of them and was glad that they had  been included in the programme; . his country wes  fully resolved to play its part in their implementation,  The projects on arid lands and the training of  teachers in Latin America were both of great interest  to Spain, which had shown its concern with the latter  problem by helping to ostablish the Ibero-American  Bureau of Education and by promoting the scheme for  an Institute for the Training of Latin American science  teachers which was to be set up in the very near  future,  With régard to the mutual appreciation of Eastern  ar Weatirn cultural values, Mr. Jordana de Pozas  recalled that Spain had been the channel through which  Arab culture had reached Europe, and was therefore  keenly interested in that major project. Many  Spaniards went in for Arabic and Hebraic studies, had  contributed writings to several reviews and publica-  tions, and assisted in the translation of various works  and the establishment of Institutes in Barcelona,  Madrid and Tetuan.  For all the reasons he had given, Spain would vote  for the projects in question.
(5) Mr, CALO (Italy) felt that, although appreciable  efforts had already been made to secure better con-  centration of programme activities, the results  achieved in that respect were not, as yet, entirely  satisfactory. Major projects had been worked out  which would enable the Organization to use a large  part of its resources for the solution of certain prob-  lems of capital importance but, in the field of mass  communication, for instance, there was still a de-  plorsble dissipation of effort. Mr. Calo thought that  endeavours should be made to remedy the lack of  rational organization in that field as soon as possible;  and the Italian delegation would have several sugges-  tions to make in that respect. He therefore hoped that  the Chairman would appoint a smell committee to re-  model the programme of the Department of Mass  Communication in collaboration with its Director.  The committee; in whose work the Italian delegation  would be most anxious to take part, should seek to  ensure thet the various information media were more  efficiently used as instruments for the attainment of  a given number of carefully defined objectives.  Secondly, Mr. Calo thought that the Department of  Education should be in charge of the various educa-  tional projects currently included in the programmes  of various other Departments of the Secretariat. As  an example he pointed out that, as the teaching of  science was necessarily linked with that of other sub-  jects, it should be organized not by the Natural  Sciences Department but by the Education Department,  the only one in a position adequately to co-ordinate  the syllabuses for the various branchea of knowledge.  Moreover, there was no reason why - if it was thought  necessary - a few science teaching specialists should  not be attached to the staff of the Education Depart-  ment. .‘ :  Turning to the question of relations with interna-  tional non-governmental organixations, Mr. Calo  thought that great caution should be exercised in  granting consultative status to new organisations. He  also thought that Unesco should try to arrange for the
322  PROGRAMME COMMISSION  international non-governmental organizations to colla-  borate -with it in the most practical manner possible,  In his view, therefore, the contract system was pre-  ferable to the granting of subventions, ". ; .  In principle Hé was in favour of iricluding in the pro.  gramme a certain number of major projects designer;  to help in the solution of very important problems. He  considered that the major project on scientific research  on arid lands should, as planned, yield useful results;  but the activities contemplated in connexion with the  major project on mutual appreciation of Eastern and  Western cultural values seemed to him to be unco-  ordinated, He did not believe that the insertion of some  elementary ideas on Oriental and Occidental civiliza-  tions in school textbooks would have very good results,  In ‘many countries school curricula were already over-  loaded and it was not desirable to make them stiil  heavier. Moreover, it was always difficult to make a  school textbook attractive; the study of a civilization  under such conditions might well seem very arid to  the pupils,  Mr. Calo thought that better results could be hoped  from extra-curricular activities organized to enable  children wishing to do so to familiarize themselves  with a given civilization in their spare time. It might  be well to encourage National Commissions to organize  a whole series of such activities in each country, inclu-  ding, for instance, talks, film shows and various pro-  grammes using audio-visual media of communication,  Finally, Mr. Calo endorsed the French delegution's  proposal that a small number of judiciously compo:ed  bodies be set up to exercise some supervision over  the implementation of the project.  With regard to the major project on the extension of  primary education in Latin America, Mr. Calo  stressed the satisfaction which ha personally had de-  rived from the recommendations of the regional con-  ference in Lima, and the importance of planning that  project to ensure the nécessary co-ordination both be-  tween ihe programmes of the various countries con-  cerned and between the different kinds of activities  included in those programmes, .  Before concluding his remarks on the Education  chapter - with which the major project in question was  linked - Mr. Calo emphasized once more that Unesco  might be well advised to leave certain groups of Mem-  ber States to solve for themselves particular problems  which, like those connected with the school curriculum,  seemed to be regional rather than international in  character. On the other hand, he deplared the reduc-  tion, proposed for 1957-1958, in the appropriations  for adult education, and deeply regretted that the ides  of setting up a consultative committee on adult educa-  tion, ss proposed in document 8C/5, Part 11, Chapter
1, paragraphs 183 and 184, had been dropped. In  conclusion, he hoped that the Education chapter would  as soon as possible be restored to the place it deserved  in Unesco's programme.
(6) Mr. SAIYIDAIN (India) expressed his delegation's  pleasure in welcoming Mrs. Myrdal as Chairman of  the Programme Commission.  ‘+ He welcomed the terms of the preamble to the chap-  ter on Education (document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1),  which emphasized that the purpose of the proposed  activities was to work towards international under-  standing and co-operation. He felt that that purpose   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  should be the guiding principle in planning all the -  activities of the Organization, and not only those of  the Department of Education. While realizing thé  importance of research, he did not think that Unesco  should itself sponsor research work, but should try  to co -ordinate the work being done by other organiza-  tions whose resources were much larger than its own.  Unesco's responsibility was to see that the lives of  men were enriched, and, in giving help to other  organisations, it should consider to what extent their  research would raise the cultural and material stan-  dards of mankind and to what extent it would contri-  bute to bette: international understanding and co-  operation. Those responsible for devising Uneaco's  programme should give careful consideration to the  moat effective means of achieving that goal, using  indirect means, where necessary, if by doing so a  firmer foundation could be secured.  The current programmé was designed to cater for  "highbrows, middlebrows and lowbrows'. While  recognizing the fact that an attempt should be made  to reach all three categories, he felt that, in the  allocation of funds and in the planning of projects, in-  creasing emphasis should be laid on the second and  third categories. Some of the projects would have no  early and perceptible impact on the latter, and unless  the masses were included from the beginning, the  foundations upon which Unesco was trying to build a  bridge between nations would be insecure. The reach-  ing of the masses was indispensable to Unesco's goal.  The Indian Clovernment greatly appreciated the pro-  gramme of Technical Assistance, but felt that unless  Unesco, through that programme, became an inspira-  tion to teachers and teciinicians as representing the  conscience of mankind, it would never make a real  impact.  He recalled that many committees and commissions  had met during the past year, made recommendations  and prepared reports. He asked what action had been  taken on those recommendstions and reports. It would  be a pity if Unesco initiated schemes and then took no  further action. He suggested that a unit might be  developed within the Secretariat to follow up such  meetings, to watch what was being done by Member  States, and to see whether recommendations were  being implemented, Member States and National Com-  missions should really be responsible for such work;  but unless Unesco kept them up to their responsibi-  litles, he feared that little would be done.  The Indian Government greatly appreciated the  Secretariat's approach to the major projects. - But he  felt that little thought had been given to what other  bodies were doing in the same field. Referring, in  particular, to the major project on mutual apprecia-  tion of Eastern and Western cultural values, he  pointed out that national bodies such as the British  Council, which aimed at presenting Britain to other  countries, were already engaged in trying to improve  understanding of different cultural values, and sug-  gested that an attempt ahould be made to marshal  them to carry out Unesco's work, The General Con-  ference should ensure that the major projects were  not starved for funds, for it was advisable to visualize  them in the broadest possible terms. His Government  saw the Egat and West not only as parts of the world lying  on different sides of the Suez Canal, but as parts of  the world having different political beliefs, Where
323     IV-4  difterences in ideclogy were greatest, there was the  greatest need for mutual appreciation and understand-  ing. He believed that, if it was possible to envisage  and implement the East-West project in the right  spirit, Unesco could make a valuable contribution to  peace on both the intellectual and the political planes.  He did not think that mass media were used as  effectively as they could be in the development of  mutual understanding. - He suggested that Unesco  might sponsor a project to encourage the produc-  tion of documentary films dealing with the life of  the common people in various countries, and  encourage countries to allow mich films to circulate  without restriction, If such a project were  carried out, great progress would be made in the  direction of mutual understanding. Similar projects  could be undertaken in the field of radio broadcasts.  Unesco should help to gear the important field of  mass media to its aim of promoting better interna-  tional understanding.  In conclusion, he repeated that it was his opinion  that those responsible for formulating, assessing  and implementing Unesco's programme should be  guided by the criteria of international understanding  and co-operation. Wherever it was found that  the relationship between a project and those aims  was slight, & closer scrutiny should be made of  that project.
(7) Mr. REIMERS (Federal Republic of Germany)  associated himself with those apeakers who had ex-  pressed satisfaction with the concentration of the pro-  posed programme; he hoped that the process of con-  centration would be continued.  With regard to the question of how the extra  $1,000, 000 voted by the General Conference were tc  be spent, he said that he was against the introduction  of new items into the programme and would prefer to  see the money being used to strengthen activity in  existing projects, and to advance the major projects.  His Government consideréd the major projects of the  utmost importance and was in favour of allocating a  high percentage of the additional sum voted to them.  His Government greatly appreciated the careful  preparation of the arid zone project, which, of all the  projects undertaken by Unesco, most closely fitted  Unesco's criteriu. It also supported the project for  teacher training in Latin America. While regretting  that the project for providing reading material for new  literates had not been included as à major project, he  suggested that it should be promoted ds far as possible  in Unesco's ordinary programme, within the budget  ceiling. .  It was obvious that everyone considered the major  project on the mutual appreciation of Eastern and  Western cultural values to be the most important; that  being so, he suggested that careful consideration should  be given to its implementation. In his opinion, care  should be taken to avoid self-advertisement: Western  countries should try to enlarge their knowledge and  revise their ideas about the East, and not try to con-  vince the Eastern countries of the superiority of  Western qualities, or vice yersa, It was necessary  for Western countries not only to acquaint themselves  with the religions, spiritual beliefs and philosophies  of the East but also to realize how the Eastern coun-  tries had reacted to modern developments, and to   IV-5 PROGRAMME  discover what contributions they could make to the -  world, . It would alsç be misleading if Western civi- -  lisation was regarded solely.in terms of scientific and  technical progress; although {t should be stood  that technical progress was deeply rooted in Western  spiritual belief, He also considered that no bilateral  projects should be sponsored by Unesco, as it was  much more important to work with groups of countries.  He noted that 46 per cent of the budget was to be  devoted to the Participation programme and felt that  that marked a trend against concentration of Unesco's  resources which should be avoided, He suggested that  the Secretariat should inform all Member States of all  projects undertaken under that programme, giving  details of funds distributed for any given project and  information on the results achieved.  Q     COMMISSION  In connexion with the question of evaluating Unésco's  achievements, he remarked that s0 far all evaluation  had been done by means of reports from the Director,  General, from the Executive Board and from Member  States. He suggesied that it would be wise to consider  the possibility of critical judgements from independent  sources, He would welcome the views of other dele--  gates on that point.
(8). The CHAIRMAN warned the Commission that ag it  had, through no fault of its own, made a late start with  its work, it might be necessary before long to hold night  meetings,  The meeting rose at 6 p.m.  FIFTH MEETING
15 November 1956, at 10.30 a, m.  Chairman: Mr. BULAJIC (Yugoslavia)  later: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)
(1) Before reopening the general discussion on item
9 of the agenda, the CHAIRMAN said that the New  Zealand delegation wished to ask for an explanation  concerning procedure.
(2) Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand) asked for some clari-  fication in connexion with the purposes and functions  of the working party on major projects. Was it to  consider only the content of the projects, without going  into their budgetary and planning aspects? He sug-  gested that a very brief document setting out the  Executive Board's and the Director-General's views  on the subject would help the Commission.
(3): Mr, BENDER (Netherlands) (Representative of the  Executive Board) said that the Board had only made  suggestions in the matter; the Commission was quite  free to accept or modify them, Before the substance  of the projects waa discussed, it seemed logical to  examine questions of general policy and administrative  problems; to describe them fully; . to determine the  criteria to be followed as well as the methods of rela-  ting the projects to the normal programme, It would  be very useful if the working party would consider the  apparatus necessary to execute the projécts and how  the planning would be done - by the Secretariat or by  another body. Mr. Bender understood that the Secre-  tariat paper suggested by Mr, Beeby would be pre-  pared at once. He stressed that, in the Board's view,  the working party was free to extend the scope of its  work, though it ahould avoid discussing the substance  of the major projecis, which would come before the  Commission itself,
9C/5 and Addenda and Corrigenda) — GENERAL DISCUSSION (continued)
(4) Mr, RAADI (Iran) said that he would confine him-  self to a few remarks on specific projects,  With regard to the report of the Committee on Re-  ports of Member States (document 9C/PRG/2), hé had  noted that the Committee had been unable to study.all  the reports submitted in'detail; he hopéd that the Sec-  retariat would be able to do so asd thereafter to offer  critical and constructive suggestions concerning both  the form and substance of the reports. Furthermore,  he associated himself in advance with any measures’.  the Director-General might decide to take to enable - .  National Commissions to improve their machinery, -  Referring to paragraph 18 of document 9C/PRG/ 2,  Mr. Raadi suggested that Member States be invited to  explain why they had been unable to act on certain reso-  lutions and to indicate the difficulties they encountered  in carrying out certain parts of the programme.  He stressed the importance to Unesco of the work of  National Commissions, but added that, in his opinion,  those bodies could be really helpful only if their . .  activities were directed towards the implementation of  the programme adopted by the General Conference. It  would be desirable, from that point of view, to recom-  mend that the authorities responsible for action at the  national level should always be represented at regional  conferences.  Commenting on the report of the United Nations re--  presentative, Mr. Raadi was glad to note the new frend  towards greater concentration of activities and better