7 November 1956, at 10.30 a.m,  President: Maulana AZAD (India)  later: Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  CONTENTS  Admission of new Members and Associate Members . . . . 33  Admission of observers from international non-governmental  organizations. +. + + +... eee aoe 34  Presentation by the Chairman of the Executive Board of the  Director-General's Reports and the Proposed Programme  and Budget for 1957-1958, . . . . +. . +, + 1 +. «+. + 36  Speech by the Director-General . . . + + + + + + + + + + 36  Submission of an oral report on the activities of the Execu-  tive Board. . . . 6 0 0 6 0 0 6 5 0 0 0 0 + + BB  Statement by the Secretary of the General Committee . . . . 41  General discussion of the Director-General's Report and the  Proposed Programme and Budget for 1857-1958: Speeches  by the delegates of Afghanistan, Thailand, El Salvador and  Iran... , . …... oe cee. 41  Speeches by the representatives of Morocco and Nigeria « . 46
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation):* 1 apologize for  my absence yesterday afternoon, which was due, not  to any private reason, but to meetings of the Cabinet,  occasioned by the current state of affairs. 1 call  upon Mr. Mudaliar, Chairman of the Executive Board.  ADMISSION OF NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATE MEMNERS
(2) Mr. MUDALIAR (India) (Chairman of the Execu-  tive Board): Mr. President, the Executive Board  considered an application from Tunisia for member-  ship of Unesco and, at its 44th session, adopted the  following resolution:  "The Executive Board, _  Considering that the Government of Tunisia applied  for membership of Unesco on 24 January 1956,  That, in accordance with Article II of the Agree-  ment between Unesco and the United Nations, the  Director-General forwarded the application to the  Economic and Social Council of the United Nations,  That the Economic and Social Council, at its twenty-  firat session, decided to inform Unesco that it had no  objection to the admission of Tunisia to membership  of the Organization,  Decides, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article  II of Unesco's Conatitution, to recommend to the  General Conference at its ninth session tliat Tunisia  be admitted to membership of Unesco."  With regard to an application from Morocco for  membership of Unesco, at its 44th session the Execu-  tive Board adopted the following resolution:
33  “The Executive Board,  Considering that the Government of Morocco applied  for membership of Unesco on 16 May 1856,  That, in accordance with Article II of the Agreement  between Unesco and the United Nations, the Director-  General forwarded the application to the Economic  and Social Council of the United Nations,  That the Economic and Social Council, at its twenty-  second sesslon, decided to inform Unesco that it had  no objection to the admission of Morocco to member -  ship of the Organization,  Decides, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article  II of Unesco's Constitution, to recommend to the  General Conference at its ninth session that Morocco  be admitted to membership of Unesco,"  With regard to an application by the Federation of  Nigeria for admission to Associate Membership of  Unesco, the Executive Board at its 44th session  adopted the following resolution:  "The Executive Board,  Noting the statement made by Sir Ben Boiraa Thomas  (United Kingdom) on behalf of his Governmei.! regard-  ing the appligation of Nigeria for Associate Member-  ship of the Organization, to be forwarded soon by the  Government of the United Kingdom,  Authorizes the Director-General, as soon ag he  receives this application, to invite Nigeria to send  observers to the ninth session of the General  Conference."  In accordance with this decision, the Federation of  * Spoke in Urdu.   n-4  Nigeria has been invited to send observers to the  ninth session of the General Conference, Under the  terms of Article II,3 of the Constitution and Rule
92(2) of the Rules of Procedure, it is now for the  General Conference to decide whether to admit the  Federation of Nigeria to Associate Membership of  Unesco. In accordance with Rule 81 of the Rules of  Procedure, a majority of two-thirds is required for  this purpose,
(3) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call upon the  delegate of France,
(4) Mr. LAUGIER (France) (Translation from the  French}; Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the  ninth session of the Goneral Conference is thus re-  quired today to decile ‘on the requests for admission  to full membership submitted by Tunisis, and Moracco.  The Chairman of the Executive Board Las already  told you that the United Nations Economic snd Social  Council has givin its consent, or at any rate has  raised no objection, and that the Executive Board of  Unesco has uni{1)mously adopted a resolution recom-  mending that the General Conference admit Tunisia  and Morocco to the Organization. ‘  France has pleasure in presenting these two appli-  cations to the Conference, with its warm support.  France has no doubt that these countries are today  fully entitled, legally, to become members of the  Organization. France is quite confident, is convinced,  that they will collaborate helpfully and effectively in  Unesco's endeavours to Jisseminate education, science  and culture, to promote them and to use them in the  task of building peace in the minds of men. Accor-  dingly, France asks you to adopt the two resolutions  before you, contained in documents 9C/DR/51 and
9C/DR/52. It is my country's fervent hope that this  Conference will reach a unanimous decision to admit  Morocco and Tunisia as full members of the Organiza-  tion.
(5) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call upon the  de*egate of Lebanon.
(6) Mgr MAROU! (Lebanon) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, the delegation of Lebanon  strongly supports the draft resclution presented by  the French delegation for the admission of Morocco  and Tunisia to the United Nations Educational, Scien-  tific and Cultural Organization, and wishes to take  this opportunity of expressing its very great pleasure  at seeing those two countries enter the Unesco family.  We view their admission as representing an enlarge-  ment of the Unesco family, a greater affirmation of  the Organization's authority, and yet a further ad-  vance in the field of international co-operation. The  delexation of Lebanon would be very glad if unanimity  were reached on this matter in our asse (ably.
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I hope that this  proposal will be accepted by everybody, that there  will be no need for further discussion on it, and that  it will be carried unanimously. I call upon the  Director-General.
(8) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: Mr. President,  delegates, I believe you have in front of you document
9C/10 (IL!) dated 6 November, which I think was dis-  tributed to you this morning. This document contains  the text of a communication from Her Majesty's  Government in the United Kingdom regarding the appli.  cation of the Federation of Nigeria to become an  Associate Member of the Organization, In accordance  with the authorization of the Executive Board which is  quoted in the document, the Secretariat has invited the  Federation of Nigeria to send observers to this session,  Under the terms of Article II, 3 of the Constitution and  Rule 92, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure, it  is now for the General Conference to decide whether  to admit the Federation of Nigeria to Associate Mem-  bership of Unesco, and under Rule 81 of the Rules of  Procedure this requires a two-thirds majority of the  Conference. I can assure the Conference that all the  requirements of the Constitution and of the Rules of  Procedure have been followed and that it is in order  for you to vote upon it at this time.
(9) The PRESIDENT (Translation): Does anyon: sup-  port the proposal of the Director-General?
(10) Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom): Mr.  President and fellow delegates, the delegation of the  United Kingdom has much pleasure in asking you to  accept as an Associate Member of Unesco the Federa-  tion of Nigeria, a country of 32 million people for  whose foreign uffairs Her Majesty's Government is  responsible; that will be possible under the Articles  of the Constitution and the Rules to which the Director-  General has just referred. As he also intimated, 1  am glad to say that Mr. Cyril J. Mabey and Mallam  Amadu Coomassie have already arrived as observers  on behalf of Nigeria and, if this General Conference  does Nigeria the honour of receiving it into Associate  Membership, they will take their places in this Con-  ference as the delegates of Nigeria. .I sincerely hope  that the Conference will be able to admit Nigeria as  an Associate Member.
(11) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call upon the  delegate of New Zealand.
(12) Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand): Mr. President and  fellow delegates, I have very great pleasure in secon-  ding the motion of the delegate of the United Kingdom  for the acceptance of the Federation of Nigeria as an  Asuociate Member.
(13) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I hope that all  agree to that proposal; if so, the Associate Member-  ship of Nigeria is accepted unanimously. Before  taking up the next item, I ask permission to leave the  Chair for a time. While I am away, one of the Vice-  Presidents will conduct the proceedings.  (Mr. de Berredo Carneiro (Brazil) took the Chair.)  ADMISSION OF OBSERVERS FROM INTERNATIONAL  NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS
(14) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  We shall now take up item 6 of the agenda: Recom-  mendations of the Executive Board concerning the ad-  mission, to the ninth session, of observers from  international non-governmental organizations.   PLENARY MEETINGS  I call upon the Chairman of the Executive Board to  address you on the subject. The relevant document,  which you have before you, is document 9C/2, together  with te Addendum thereto.
(15) Mr, MUDALIAR (Indie) {Chairman of the Execu-  tive Board); The Executive Board decided at its 44th  session to recommend'to the General Conference that  it admit as observers at its ninth session represen-  tatives of the following non-governmental organiza-  tions, whose activities are international in scope:  the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace;  the Rockefeller Foundation; the Ford Foundation;  and the following international non-governmental  organizations: International Academy of Ceramics;  International Astronautical Federation; International  Federation of Translators; International Publishers!’  Association; Pan-Pacific and South East Asia Women's  Association; Union of Latin American Universities;  World Veterans Federation; Young World Federalists.  The Executive Board decided at its 45th session to  recommend to the General Conference that represen-  tatives from the following organizations be admitted  to the ninth session as observers: World Federation  of the Deaf; Junior Chamber International; Interna-  onal Broadcasting Organization; International Asso-  ciation of Plastic Arts.
(16) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Are there any comments on the proposal of the Execu-  tive Board?  I call upon the delegate of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics.
(17) Mr. ZIMIN (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  {Translation from the Russian): Mr. President, fel-  low delegates, the Soviet delegation supports the  recommendations of the Executive Board for inviting,  to the General Conference, observers from the non-  governmental organizations mentioned, At the same  time, however, our delegation expreases its regret  that the Executive Board has not seen its way to in-  clude in its recommendations such international orga-  nizations as the World Federaticn of Democratic  Youth and the International Union of Students.  We know that the requests of these organizations to  serd observers to this Conference were considered  at the 44th session of the Executive Board. The rap-  porteur did not, however, explain why the Executive  Board did not regard it as possible to support those  requests. Later on we shall be considering the ques-  tion of granting these organizations consultative status,  but at the moment we are dealing with the question of  inviting them to send observers. In our view, the  chief criteria for deciding whether or not to invite  observers from any particular international non-  governmental organization are, firstly, the represen-  tative and truly international character of the orga-  nization, and, secondly, how far its activities are in  line with the tasks and purposes of Unesco. Both the  organizations which I have mentioned, we think, en-  tirely fulfil these requirements. The World Federa-  tion of Democratic Youth embraces organizations  working in 92 countries and territories. It has over
80 million members. The members of the Interna-  tional Union of Students are national student unions  and national committees for co-ordinating the activities
3%  of student organizations specializing in different  branches of science. The Union comprises student  associations from nearly 40 countries, La  Both these organizations make great efforts to in-  crease mutual understanding between young people and  students in different countries, irrespective of their  nationality and race, or of their political and religious  convictions; they make every endeavour to bring up  the younger generation in a spirit of friendship and co-  operation, One aspect of their work to this end, which  deserves comment, {8 the organization of international  festivals, attended by tens of thousands of young people  from various countries, indeed from most of the  countries of the world, Since 1947, five such festivals  have been held, Preparations are now being made for  the Sixth International Youth Festival, to take place  in 1957. The World Federation of Democratic Youth  and the International Union of Students also organize  a large number of international and regional confe-  rences and seminars, They are performing a major  task of cultural enlightenment and education, in a  spirit of international understanding. They both main-  tain close relations with other international organiza-  tions. We remember that observers from these  organizations have attended certain sessions of Unesco's  General Conference. And we cannot understand why  an established practice, followed hitherto, should now  be discontinued, Both the trend of their activities and  the way they are organized indicate that the aims and  functions of Unesco on tl'& one hand, and those of the  World Federation of Democratic Youth and the Inter-  national Union of Students on the other, completely  and harmoniously coincide. We consider, therefore,  that the correct and just course would be to invite  observers from those organizations to our Conference.  I submit this proposal on behalf of the Soviet dele-  gation, and I believe the Conference will give it a  favourable reception.  Thank you, Mr. President,
(18) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Gentlemen, you have before you a request from the  Soviet delegation for the admission, to the present ses-  sion of the General Conference, of observers from  the World Federation of Democratic Youth and the  International Union of Students.  Is the proposal seconded?  It ls seconded by several delegations. I submit it  to you for consideration. Are there any further  comments ?  I call upon the delegate of the United States of  America.
(18) Mr. ALLYN (United States of America): Mr,  President and fellow delegates, the Constitution says  that "the General Conference, on the recommendation  of the Executive Board and by a two-thirds majority,  may, subject to its Rules of Procedure, invite as ob-  servers at specified sessions of the Conference or of  its Commissions representatives of international  organizations". As I understand it, we have not had  such a recommendation from the Executive Board. I  refer to Article IV. E, entitled "Observers".
(20) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Let me remind the Conference of the exact wording  of Rule 7 of tae Rules of Procedure of the General
11-4 PLENARY  Conference: "Admission of other observers: The  General Conference, on the recommendation of the  Executive Board and by a two-thirds majority of Mem-  bers present and voting, may admit as observers at  specified sessions of the Conference or of its Com-  missions representatives of international non-  governmental or semi-governmental organizations",  The United States delegate has raised a point of order.  He points out that, in the case of the proposal con-  cerning the World Federation of Democratic Youth  and the International Union of Students, there hasbeen  no recommendation by the Executive Board. Accor-  dingly it appears to be the duty of the Chair to accept  the proposal of the United States delegation that any  decision concerning the admission of observers from  those organizations be deferred.  The General Conference may, however, refer the  matter to the Executive Board, which might then con-  sider it at the present session.  If there are no objections, it is decided accordingly.  We shall now take up item 7 of the agenda - Pres-  entetion by the Cheirman of the Executive Board and  general discussion of: the Report of the Director-  General on the activities of the Organization in 1955,  the Interim Report for the first six months of 1956,  the Report of the Executive Board on its own activi-  ties, and the Proposed Programme and Budget for
1957 and 1958.
1 call upon the Chairman of the Executive Board.  PRESENTATION DY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD  OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL'S REPORTS AND OF THE  PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1957-1938
(21) Mr. MUDALIAR (India) (Chairman of the Execu-  tive Board): Mr. President, the report of the  Director-General on the activities of the Organization  has been presented for the year 1955 and for the firat  half of the year 1956. The Executive Board examined  the report at its 44th session in accordance with  Article V.9 of the Constitution, and it has authorized  the Chairman of the Board to present it to the  General Conference with its comments. The Board  has submitted its comments in document 9C/6, and 1  would invite the attention of members to this parti-  cular document. ;  With regard to the Proposed Programme and Bud-  get for 1957-1958, the Executive Board invited the  Director-General to re-examine the Proposed Pro-  gramme and Budget for 1957-1958, document 9C/5,  in order to determine how far he can absorb in the  total expenditure proposed in that document - namely  $21,600,000 - the increases recommended or sugges-  ted in the comments of the Executive Board on the  Proposed Programme and Budget for 1957-1958, pre-  pared by the Board at its 44th session in July 1956,  which are contained in document 9C/5 Add. 1, It  further invited the Director-General to indicate in an  annex to the corrigendum to document 9C/5 any in-  creases which could not be absorbed without prejudice  to the programme of the Organization and the adop-  tion of which by the Generel Conference would require  a higher total budget for 1957-1958. Accordingly,  after reconsidering document 9C/5, the Director-  General has submitted a further document, 2C/5 Corr.
1, which the Conference has before it for consideration.  MEETINGS
(22) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon the Director-General,  SPEECH BY THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL
(23) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: Mr, President, I  think at this time it would not be very helpful to the  Conference if Iiried to summarize, or to give you the  highlights contained in, this pile of documents. I  think, however, it may be helpful to the Conference  if I make a few remarks about administrative and  policy matters which have played an important role  in the development of the reports and of the pro-  gramme and budget documents,  The form of the reports on the activities of the Sec-  retariat has been the subject of discussion between  myself and the Executive Board on various occasions  and we have been trying to develop a form of report  which would be of the greatest possible use to the  Executive Board and to the Member States, Neces-  sarily these documents are mostly a record of activi-  ties and do not have many inspiring passages in them.  The Executive Board has taken note of this fact and  has asked me to try to remedy this situation in part,  by writing an introduction to each of the reports which  would try to give in broad and general terms some  conception of the rôle that Unesco is playing in the  world, and of the trends in education, science and  culture which are important for its work. This matter  is still under consideration, although I shall try in the
1956 (the full year's) report to achieve the Board's  general objective in this regard.
1 personally am not entirely satisfied with the re-  ports. But you will realize that the Secretariat  already spends a great deal of its time in preparing  documents for the Executive Board, documents for the  Conference, plans for future activities and reports on  its own activities, so that we have not had the time  that we would really desire to prepare for you the  most readable type, the most valuable type, of report.  We shall try to do better in the future, and it would  be helpful to us to know in what respects these reports  fail fully to meet the requirements of our Member  States.  The budget level which has been proposed to you  had to be decided by me in general terms - fairly  exacily, with some close approximations - in July of
1955, At that time I instructed my Secretariat, after  full discussion in our Directors’ meetings, to prepare  a draft programme and budget that included a milliôn-  dollar increase in the spending level. The judgement  as to what this increase should be was based upon «  careful assessment of what we knew to be the views  of individual Member States both as to the desirability  of an increase in our activities and also as to the  undesirability of having a very large increase at this  time in human history, when sc many other matters  are claiming the attention of our financial experts in  all of the governments of the world. We hit upon the  million-dollar increase largely in terms of an arbit-  rary judgement as to the relative weight of these two  views in the chancelleries of our Member States. On  the basis of that decision, the various Departments  aided me in drafting a brief paper containing the main  provisions of the programme and budget document,  for discussion by the Executive Board at its session   PLENARY  last November, The Board discussed this fully and  gave me considerable guidance as to the development  of the proposed programme and budget document  itself, This document was printed by the end of Feb-  ruary and was forwarded to Member States. That is  the very document you have in front of you, 9C/5,  The Member States, at the request of the Executive  Board, were given until 1 June to make comments on  this document, and the comments themselves and our  analysis of them were presented to the July meeting  of the Executive Board, The Board at that time,  after a most thorough examination of the proposals,  made a number of recommendations to me for changes  in the document, and I have adopted all those recom-  mendations except one. That one recommendation  was that I should make the changes, which amounted  to about half a million dollars, without an increase in  the budget level - the spending level of $21,600, 000.  I was unable to do this, but I came to within about  $60,000 of doing so. Therefore you have, in the cor-  rigendum, a recommended increase in the budget  level of approximately $60, 000. I would like to call  the Conference's attention to the fact that this pro-  cess of absorbing the recommendations of the Board  meant that we had, in the corrigendum, to eliminate  a number of the projects appearing in document 9C/5  and to reduce a number of others. I do not wish the  Conference to understand that I protest against this -  I merely wish you to know that certain of the projects  to which some of you may attach importance, con-  tained in document 9C/5, have been éliminated for  budgetary reasons. ‘  I decided not to recommend a greater increase in  the budget because the Board was atrongly of the  opinion that the changes carried out stould be within  the budget level, if possible. Therefo‘e the limita-  tions were for budgetary reasons, and we think the  programme is even better in the corrijendum than it  was in our original proposals,  Mr. President, we had to absorb also, in addition  to an increase in projects, approximately $192,000  for the {wo-year period to meet an increase in the  salaries of local staff in Paris, which the Board  approved in execution of a General Conference resolu-  tion on the subject of local salaries in relation to the  beat prevailing wage rates in Paris. There were also  a number of the Executive Board's suggeutions, which  you will find listed in its report - one of the documents  before you - that we were not able to absorb. Certain  of these have, at the request of thé Board been listed  in the Annex to document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1, so  that delegates at this Conference may have a chance  to examine some of these additional propositions.  These additional propositions emanating from various  sources also include some proposals of Member  States, particularly proposals of Member States con-  cerning major projects.  Mr. President, you will algo note that you have be-  fore you a large number of draft resolutions presen-  ted by Member States. The Secretariat is at present  in the process of analysing these resolutions and will  present its comments on them to the Executive Board,  which will soon begin a study of them with a view to  making its recommendations to you.  This procedure of consulting the Executive Board  at an early stage, consulting the Member States at  the next stage, consulting the Board fully on the draft  MEETINGS
37  II-4  document at a still later stage, and then making a  corrigendum which reflects the Board's thinking, and  getting that document to Member States in advance of  the Conference session so that they may study it well  before the delegations arrive at the General Confe-  rence, has raised some difficulties, The calendar is  obviously not adequate as it stands at the moment,  seeing that we were unable to place the corrigepdum  in the hands of Member States sufficiently in advance  of this session of the General Conference. I hope that  you will accept my assurance that the Director-General  and the Board will try to improve this calendar for the
1958 session, 50 that Member States will have both  documents in front of them long enough to study them  fully and to react to them. I hope that we can do this  without very much advancing the date at which we  have to make our budget proposals and programme  proposals, because if we had to advance it very much  we would have to start preparing the next programme  and budget before we could start operating this one.  As 1 told you a moment ago, we had to start preparing  this budget and programme when the 1955-1956 pro-  gramme had been in operation for only six months.  Mr. President, we have been under heavy pressure  to make a recommendation to increase the budget  ceiling. This pressure has come mostly from inside  the Secretariat; we have had, for instance, an atomic  energy meeting in New York eince we prepared the  programme and budget document - the corrigendum  itself - and we believe that to carry out the wishes of  our family of agencies in the United Nations system,  including the Conference which developed the new  international atomic agency, we would need an extra  $30,000, We are reporting this to the Conference,  but we are not asking you to increase the budget ceil-  ing. We will try somehow to work this into the budget.  There is also another operation in the United Nations,  completed just a few weeks ago, which may have a  serious bearing on Unesco. Whether it does or not  depends, of course, on the wishea of this session of  the General Conference. I refer to the Salary Review  Committee which was set up by the last General  Assembly to consider the matter of salaries and allow-  ances in the United Nations Secretariat. The General  Assembly said that the Secretary-General should con-  sult the heads of all the Specialized Agencies and  present their comments to the General Assembly.  With the authorization of the Executive Board we have  carried out this work, and now the Salary Review  Committee has prepared its document for the consi-  deration of the General Assembly. We have not yet  had time to prepare a document on this subject for  your consideration, because some inter-agency con-  sultations are taking place with the other Specialized ‘  Agencies. We hope to have the document ready next  week and it will come to you in due course. The  problem I wish to mention this morning is purely a  budgetary problein, First, if you decide to carry out  an operation in Unesco similar to the operations pro-  posed for the United Nations, we compute that the  cost to Unesco would be $561, 000 for a two-year period.  We are not prejudging your decision and 1 am making  no recommendation at this time as to what we should  do. The question is to decide whether, if the Con-  ference should decide to accept this report, it would  pay the cost out of the Working Capital Fund and then  reimburse the Fund by a supplementary appropriation   n-4 PLENARY MEETINGS  at the next session of the General Conference; or  whether we should absorb this cost within the budget  which you will be voting; or whether, again, part of  the cost should be paid out of transfers in the forth-  coming budget period, and part of it in the way I first  suggested, namely out of the Working Capital Fund  with reimbursement by the next session of the General  Conference,  Mr, President, I have given careful consideration  to this matter with the members of my staff, and I  have also raised the issue with the Executive Board,  The Executive Board did not have time - being under  pressure - and was somewhat reluctant to pronounce  firmly on this question, although various points of  view were expressed in the Board itself, I am ready  to recoramend that half of any cost which may result  from your decisions based on the Salary Review Com-  mittee!s recommendations shall be borne by trans-  fers, both those I can make without Board approval  and those which require Board approval from the 1957-  . 1958 budget, and that half be paid for out of the Work-  ing Capital Fund with reimbursement by the next ses-  sion of the General Conference, I think that is what  I would recommend: I would like to have this elastic  clauge in your decision, namely that the Director-  General and the Executive Board should strive to pay  half of the cost, leaving the Board and myself a cer-  tain amount of latitude to judge what we can do without  serious jeopardy to the programme that you will ask  us to execute. I think it is wise to keep this point in  mind in voting the budget ceiling,  In document 9C/5 we have made an effort to be  more precise in the terms of the programme resolu-  tions than was the case at Montevideo. We have found  in actual practice that the resolutions at Montevideo  were in some cases too broad and authorized us to  undertake too wide a variety of activities in the execu-  tion of the programme. The Board has expressed  some concern about the amount of changes we have  made in the work plans, but, after a thorough discus-  sion, the Board and I are in agreement that this is a  matter which we can handle without any further action  on the part of the General Conference; and I believe  you can rest assured that both the Director-General  and the Executive Board will see the programme is  executed in accordance with your wishes.  Mr. President, I cannot close this brief exposé  without indicating to you that we are trying very hard  to co-ordinate our activities with the United Nations  family of agencies, and to bear our proper share in  the joint efforts of all those agencies to carry out the  objectives of the United Nations Charter and our own  Constitution.  Thank you very much.  (Maulana Azad (India) resumed the Chair.)
(24) The PRESIDENT (Translation):  Chairman of the Executive Board,  I call upon the  SUBMISSION OF AN ORAL REPORT ON THE ACTIVITIES  OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD
(25) Mr. MUDALIAR (India) (Chairman of the Execu-  tive Board): Mr. President, I have the honour to
38     submit the following oral report on the activities of  the Executive Board for the years 1955-1956,  Immediately after the conclusion of the General Con-  ference at Monteyideo,: on 10 December, the newly  constituted Executive Board met, on 11 December,  and elected the following officials; Chairman, myself;  Vice- Chairmen, Dr, Veronese, Italy, and Professor  Secco Ellauri, Uruguay, As Chairmen of the three  Commissions it elected: Programme Commission,  Dr, Frans Bender, Netherlands; External Relations  Commission, His Excellency Dr. Raadi, Iran;  Finance Commission, Sir Ben Bowen Thomas, United  Kingdom; . The members of the three Commissions  were nominated at the opening of the next session of  the Executive Board, held in March 1955, in Paris.  The Commissions held several meetings during the
43rd and 44th sessions of the Executive Board to con-  sider the subjects that had been referred to them by  the Board,  At the eighth session of the General Conference, the  Executive Board and the Director-General were in-  structed to study the organization and methods of work  of the General Conference, the Commissions and  Committees, and to improve their efficiency and ex-  pedite their work. The Board appointed a special  committee of seven members with Dr. Veronese, Vice-  Chairman, in the Chair. The suggestions put forward  by this committee were sent to the Member States by  the Director-General, with a circular letter and a  questionnaire inviting suggestions on the organization  and methods of work of the General Conference. In  the light of the replies received and the final recom-  mendations of the special committee appointed by the  Executive Board, the Board has submitted its recom-  mendations to the General Conference, in document
9C/7 which I commend for your careful perusal,  It is one of the duties of the Board to submit to the  Trusteeship Council of the United Nations comments  on the annual reports of the authorities administering  Trust Territories. The Board has taken an active  part in drafting such comments for submission to the  Trusteeship Council at {ts sessions held twice a year.  Since, however, these annual reports are published  only a short time before the sessions of the Trustee-  ship Council, and since the Executive Board has no  opportunity to meet as a Board to consider these com-  ments, it was decided that a special committee should  examine these documents and, on behalf of the Execu-  tive Board, transmit the recommendations to the  Trusteeship Council, This committee was set up  under the chairmanship of His Excellency, Dr. Raadi,  Iran, and the committee's views were submitted on  behalf oi the Boärd to the Trustecship Council, The  resolutions adopted by the Trusteeship Council reflect  the comments made by Unesco {n {mplementation of  the Organization's special responsibilities.  The Board deèmed it necessary toassist the Director-  General in preparing Unesco's contribution to the Tech-  nical Assistance Board's report on the future of the  Expanded Programme of Technical Assistance. It set  up a special committee of seven, under the chairman-  ship of Dr. Frans Bender, Netherlands. The report of  this committee was approved by the Board at its 43rd  session, and subsequently the Board's views on the Ex-  panded Programme of Technical Assistance and on  Unesco's rôle inthe future development of this programme  were communicated to the Technical Assistance Board.   PLENARY  With regard to the programme and budget for:
1957-1958, you have just listened to the Director-  General's report on this subject, in which he indica-  ted that a nc:/ departure was made in regard to the  consideration of the Proposed Programme and Bud-  get. The Board felt that, before a detailed examina-  tion was made of the programme and budget for
1957-1958, a study of the achial budgetary aspects  was necessary in order {to enable the Board to focun  its attention on the objectives to be aimed at and on  the nature of the activities to be undertaken. The  Board was of opinion that such a study would be  advantageous to the General Conference in dealing  with this matter. The Board therefore appointed a  committee of nine under the chairmanship of Dr,  Veronese, This commitiée made a very thorough  study of several important aspects of the question,  and its report, presented at the Board's 44th session,  was taken due note of by the Executive Board in its  comments on the Proposed Programme and Budget  for 1957-1958, It is our hope that the recommenda-  tions of this committee will receive very careful  consideration by the General Conference,  The Board appointed several working parties during  * this period to study questions of importance; I will  mention a few of them, Firstly, a working party to  study the question of advisory services in the field  of human rights, and in particular to make recom-  mendations regarding measures to be taken in pur-  suance of resolution 926(X) adopted by the United  Nations Genéral Assembly, was constituted under the  chairmanship of Dr. Nielsen, Denmark.  Secondly, a working party to study the draft com-  ments on discrimination in education, contained ina  draft report of the Special Rapporteur appointed by  the United Nations Sub- Commission on Prevention of  Discrimination and Protection of Minorities, was  likewise constituted under the chairmanship of Dr.  Nielsen, Denmark,  “Thirdly, a working party to study the implementa-  tion of the resolution of the General Conference at  its eighth session on the celebration of centenaries  of great men was constituted under’ the chairmanship  of Dr, Frans Bender, Netherlands.  Fourthly, a working party to study the working of  the Unesco Social Sciences Institute at Cologne was  constituted under the ‘chairmanship of Sir Ben Bowen  Thomas, United Kingdom,  Tue reports of these working parties were very  useful to the Executive Board in helping it {o come to  final decisions on the various subjects. ‘These are  only a few of the working partiés constituted during  the two-year period by the Executive Board,  In regard to the planning of the Proposed Pro-  gramme and Budget for 1957-1958, it has already  been stated that a committee of nine, under the chair-  manship of Dr, Veronese, had been appointed to con-  sidér certain budgetary aspects and to place sugges-  tions before the Board for its consideration, In  addition, a new procedure has been adopted, on the  suggestion of the Director-General, to enable the  Member States and the Executive Board to be more  closely asgociated in the planning of the Proposed  Programme and Budget for 1957-1958. The Director-  General has already explained that this is a procedure  whereby the Executive Board is enabled to receive  the cormments of the Member States and then consider  MEETINGS
39  II-4  them with the Director-General before the revised  programme and budget is submitted, The procedure  has been very helpful and we hope it may be followed  in the future, The Executive Board has also, at  successive meetings, had an opportunity of discussing  the Director-General's report on the activities of the  Organization and the progress made since the pre-  ceding session, In this way the Board has been able  to give its views and comments and to make sugges-  tions regarding the implementing of the programme  at successive stages, .  Members may be aware that an appeal by four of  the former employees of Unesco was considered by  the Administrative Tribunal of the International Lahour  Organisation. The Executive Board, after receipt of  the judgement, decided that the matter should be  referred for an advisory opinion to the International  Court of Justice, The opinion has just been received  and is under consideration by the Executive Board.  In regard to collaboration with the United Nations  and the Specialized Agéncies, I am glad to say that  during the two-year period the Executive Board  devoted full attention to all the activities of thé United  Nations and Specialized Agencies which were of direct  concern to Unesco. Collaboration with the appropriate  organizations has been stressed. Reference has al-  ready been made to the report on progress made by  Non-Self-Govérning Territories. With regard to the  peaceful uses of atomic energy, the Board corisidered  a special report of the Director-General on the pos-  sible methods of co-operation with the United Nations  in this field, and authorized the Director-General to  take all steps necessary to enable Unesco to reinforce  and supplement the action taken by the Unitéd Nations  and the Specialized Agencies to promote the utilization  of atomic energy for peaceful purposes. The Board  also decided that the Organization should be repres-  ented by an observer at the conference convened to  establish the International Atomic Energy Agency.  The Board was glad to note the satisfactory relations  existing between the United Nations Relief and Works  Agency and Unesco, approved the revised agreement  between Unesco and UNRWA, and authorized the  Director-General to increase the mumber of educa-  tional officers to be made available to the Director of  UNRWA within the limits of a total financial commit-  ment of $80,000 for each year. La 4  As a result of a communication from Mr, Estelrich  y Artigues, the representative of Spain on the Board,  on behalf of the Spanish Government, inviting the  Board to hold its 43rd session at Madrid, the Board  met in that city from 9 to 19 April, At the inaugural  meeting held in the presence of many distinguished  members of the Government and of the diplomatic  corps, addresses were delivered by His Excellency  Mr. Jesus Rubio, Minister of Education; Dr.  Veronese, Vice-Chairman of the Executive Board;  Mr. Estelrich y Artigues, representative of Spain on  the Executive Board; and Dr. Luther Evans, the  Director-General. ;  The Board accepted an invitation from Mr. Sharif  of Pakistan, on behalf of his Government, for the  Board to visit Pakistan before the commencement of  this session, and during that official visit to Pakistan,  which lasted from 27 to 30 October, most of the  members of the Board visited Karachi and Lahore.  The Beard wishes to express its thanks to the
1-4  Governments of Spain and Pakistan for their invita-  tions, for the warm welcome extended to its mem-  bers during their visits to those two countries, and  for the opportunity giyen them to study some aspects  of the culture of those countries.  Several private meetings of the Board were held to  discuss matters of importance, With regard to the  comments of the Board about the appointments to the  Secretariat, the Director-General has stated that in  futui > he will place proposals for all such appoint-  ments, in regard to grade P-5 and above, before the  Board for its advice, .  At the eighth session of the General Conference,  held at Montevideo, honourable delegates will rem-  ember that the composition of the Board was changed  in two material respects;
1. The number of members who sit on the Board  was increased from 20 to 22,
2. It was decided that half the members should  complete their term of office at the end of the ninth  session of the General Conference, and the other  half at the end of the tenth session of the Conference.  Another material change made was that members  should in future represent the governments of Mem-  ber States of which they were natlonals and that,  although the members of the Executive Board were  representative of their respective governments, they  should hold the powers delegated to them by the  General Conference on behalf of the General Con-  ference as a whole,  In view of these changes it was felt necessary to  revise some of the Board's Rules of Procedure. The  Conference took the opportunity of introducing cer-  tain provisions to improve the working of the Board.  Among these, I may mention that the time-limit for  the dispatch of the agenda to members of the Board  was increased from 20 to 30 days.  Secondly, the Board's working papers and sum-  mary records were to be distributed to all Member  States as soon as issued.  Thirdly, special provision was to be made for con-  tacts between members of the Zoard, not resident in  the country they represented, and their governments,  by giving such members travel facilities for the jour-  ney from their place of residence to the seat of their  government, so that the latter could be consulted a  month before the session of the Board about the items  on the agenda. ;  Honourable delegates, the work of the Executive  Board, of the Director-General and of the Secretariat  has increased very much owing to the enlarged mem-  bership of the Organization - which has risen to a  total of 77 - to the large number of organizations in  consultative status, to the expanding activities of the  Organization In several fields, and to the increasing  number of new activities which the Organization has  to take on. Despite this increase in the volume of  work, the Board has taken due note of the resolution  passed at the eighth session of the Géneral Confe-  rence, held at Montevideo, requiring every effort to  be made by the Executive Board, in co-operation  with the Director-General, to reduce as far as pos-  sible the number and length of the Board's sessions,  It may be mentioned that, under Article V.B of the  Constitution, it is laid down that the Executive Board  shall meet in regular session at least twice a year,  and may meet in special session at its own initiative  PLENARY
40  MEETINGS  or upon the request of six members of the Board, I  am glad to say that no special session proved neces-  sary, During the two-year period the Board met in  regular session twice in each year; a one-day meet-  ing at the conclusion of the Montevideo segsion was  simply for the purpose of electing officers, and was  held virtually as a direct continuation of the General  Conference session, The time and length of the ses-  sions were also required to be curtailed by the reso-  lution of the eighth session of the General Conference,  I may state that the total duration of the sessions  during the two years was 65 days, in which time the  Board held 94 ineetings, as against 87 days in the two  years between the seventh and eighth sessions of the  General Conference. This reduction in the number  and length of sessions, made by the Board in pur-  suance of the resolution referred to, was only possible  thanks to the intensive work of the several commis-  sions, committees and working parties of the Board  and the unfailing devotion to duty of the Director-  Geiteral and the whole of the Secretariat,  In conclusion, I would like to avail myself of this  opportunity to express my grateful thanks to my col-  leagues on the Board for their willing co-operation  and for the uniform kindness and courtesy which they  have extended to the Chair. It is largely due to the  high sense of responsibility which every member of  the Board brought to bear upon his task that it was  possible to transact the business within the {ime-  limit to which I have referred. I should like also,  Mr. President, to express my grateful thanks for and  appreciation of the help, advice and co-operation  extended to me and to members of the Executive  Board by the Director-General, the Assistant  Directors-General and the members of the staff, in-  cluding the staff of the Executive Board Secretariat,  They have at all times unfailingly lent their hearty  co-operation, despite the onerous nature of their  duties and the amount of work involved during the  Board's sessions.  I should like, Mr. President, to end on a personal  note, I have been a member of the Executive Board  of this great Organization for a period of six years,  and its Chairman for the last two years, Under the  Constitution, it will bé my privilege to hand over the  membership as well as the chairmanship to my suc-  cessor. I had the privilege of working as a member  under the old constituticn of the Board, as well as  under the new one, and may I say | that on the whole  the spirit which animated our activities in the past  continues to animate the raembérs of the Board in all  of theirs. This great Organization, - on which dependg  so much of the welfare of the human race and to whfc:  people of all countries look with hope, will, I trüst, \ |  be effective in spreading its ideas, strengthening its  objectives and achieving its goal despite the clouds  which gather occasionally and the thunder which one  has sometimes, unfortunately, to hear, I leave this  Organization with a prayerful wish that it will fulfil  its noble rôle and continue to promote peace and  security by stimulating collaboration among the na-  tions through education, science and culture in order  to further universal respect for justice, for the rule  of law and for the human rights and fundamental free-  doms which are affirmed for the peoples of the world  without distinction of race, sex, language or religion,  by the Charter of the United Nations.   PLENARY
(26) The PRESIDENT (Translation): The General  Committee met this morning and drew up certain pro-  posals. The Secretary will now present these recom-  mendations to the Conference.  STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY OF THE GENERAL COMMITTEE
(27) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary of the General  Committee) (Translation from the French);
1, The General Committee recommends that the  General Conference provisionally adopt the plan for  the organization of the work of the session, presented  by the Executive Board in documents 9C/9 and the  Addendum thereto,
2, The General Committee recommends in parti-  cular that the ‘questions on the agenda be referred to  the various bodies of the Conference, as indicated in  document 9C/9, paragraphs 6, 10, 15,2 and 19.2,  and in document 9C/9 Add. , paragraph 3,
3. The General Committee also recommends that  item 17,3 of the agenda be referred to the Committee  on Reports of Member States.
4, The General Committee will consider, at a meet-  ing in the very near future, the proposals of the Execu-  tive Board (document 9C/9, paragraph 17) concerning  the terms of reference of the Advisory Committee on  Programme and Budget during the present session of  the General Conference.
5. The General Committee recommends that the  delegations present at New Delhi should inform the  Secretariat of the General Conference as early as pos-  sible whether they wish to take part in the general  discussion and, if so, at what meeting.
6. The General Committee recommends, as an  exceptional measure, that, during the discussion on  {tem 7 of the agenda, afternoon plenary meetings  should continue until 7 p.m. instead of 6.30 p.m. ;  and that on 8 November, namely tomorrow, the morn-  ing plenary meeting should begin at 10 a, m, instead  of at 10,30 a, m,
7. The General Committee recommends that the  Administrative Commission consider this week the  following items of the agenda: Item 14,2: amend-  ments to the Constitution - general discussion on the  proposals of France, Japan and Liberia, and reference  of those proposals to the Legal Committee, Item
12. 2;. report of the Executive Board on the scale of  contributions, consideration of the parts of the report  on the currency and collection of contributions of  Member States being deferred, Item 11.1: prepara-  tion of the draft resolution on methods of financing the  budget. And finally, Item 11,2: consideration of  Parts I, III and IV of the Budget Estimates. The  Administrative Commission will sit both morning and  afternoon, from Wednesday morning until Saturday  afternoon, The Legal Committee will meet tomorrow  morning, 8 November, and if necessary, during the  afternoon of that day, to consider, at the request of  the Administrative Commission, the draft amendments  to Article V, paragraphs 1 and 13, of the Constitution,  proposed by France, Japan and Liberia,  The Committee on Reports of Member States will  meet tomorrow morning, 8 November.  Lastly, the General Committee will hold its second  meeting on Friday, 9 November, at 9.30 a.m.
41  MEETINGS II-4  GENERAL DISCUSSION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL'S REPORT  AND THE PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1957-1958
(28) The PRESIDENT (Translation):  delegate of Afghanistan,
(29) Mr, MAJID (Afghanistan); Mr, President, fel-  low delegates, I deem it a great pleasure to have  this opportunity to express, on my own behalf and on  behalf of the Afghan delegation, our cordial thanks  to the Indian Government for the generous and kind  hospitality with which that Government and the people  of India have welcomed and received us to this  Conference.  The peoples of Asia, as you all know, have made  an enormous contribution to the cultural as well as  to the spiritual development of the civilized world,  It is most appropriate therefore, and a tribute to the  contributions they have made, that this ninth session  of the General Conference should be held on Asian  soil in the subcontinent of India, and in this magni-  ficent city of New Delhi, where one witnesses the  glory and splendour of diversified cultures of the  past interwoven with the technological and scientific  developments of the present. Here one observes,  with great admiration, how the principles and ideals  of Unesco are being implemented to achieve the cul-  tural, educational and scientific development of the  country by promoting the spirit of mutual respect and  mutual understanding.  It is interesting to note that the holding of the ninth  session of the United Nations Educational, Scientific  and Cultural Organization in New Delhi coincides with  the Organization's tenth anniversary. I sincerely  hope therefore that, on this tenth anniversary of  Unesco, with the experience of the past ten years to  be drawn upon, the programme planned and promul-  gated for the future will enable us to move more  rapidly towards. the cherished ideals and principles  get forth as the fundamental aims and objects of  Unesco. We sincerely hope that this new and re-  oriented programme will bring about the diffusion of  culture and the education of humanity for justice,  liberty and peace, and that it will enhance mutual  respect, mutual understanding and international co-  operation among the peoples - which, we strongly  believe, will ultimately lead to the peaceful coexis-  tence of the nations of the world.  Wea have examined and reviewed the Proposed Pro-  gramme and Budget for 1957-1958 and we have also  studied the Director-General's report on the activi-  ties of the Organization.  We wish to congratulate the Director-General on  the preparation of the thorough report on the achieve-  ments of Unesco during the past two years on the one  hand, and on the clarity of the programme submitted  for the future on the other.  My Government agrees with the general schemes  and provisions of the programme submitted, but  would like to make certain observations and sugges-  tions which are, we consider, most important for  the achievement of the objectives of Unesco, especially  in the less developed regions.  It is the feeling of the Government of Afghanistan  that far too high a portion of the Unesco overall pro-  gramme is geared to the less urgent needs of the  developed countries, and that an increasing proportion  I call upon the
1-4 PLENARY  of the total progrimme oight to be devoted to the  needs of the developing éountries, The Aid to Mem-  ber States programme ls a significant step in this  direction. My Government urges an expansion of this  highly worth-while programme which, with the Unesco  Technical Assistance programme, has become a bond  linking the smaller developing countries more closely  with Unesco's efforts to provide ‘aid.  My Government is of the opinion that greater emphasis  should be placed by Unesco on the principle of univer-  sality. This, in our view, should express itself in  adequate representation of smaller countries in the  personnel recruited for service in the Unesco Secre-  tariat and in other important organs of this Organiza-  tion.  Nliteracy and a low standard of living are still the  challenging problems of the underdeveloped countries.  It is gratifying, therefore, to note that Unesco, through  ita programmes of special activities and Aid to Mem-  ber States, is contimuing its efforts and is helping to  develop ways and means of providing the pre-school  and school education, adult education and fundamental  education which are so indispensable for the social  and economic uplifting of the less developed communi-  ties, That is in line with the overall objective of  Unesco, which has been defined by the Economic and  Social Council as being "the economic and social -  development of underdeveloped areas".  Regarding major projects, the inclusion, in the pro-  gramme, of extension of primary education in Latin  America and of scientific research on arid lands is  welcomed by my Government. However, since free  and compulsory education is a common and universal  objective of less-favoured areas, we proposed that *  Unesco should adopt a similar programmé for Asian  countries, where, for obvious reasons, there exists  sufficient need for it. This, together with research  on arid lands, would further promote the social and  economic development of the underdeveloped countries.  We believe that Unesco ought to consider planning  other major projects vital to the educational develop-  ment of our countries, covering the procurement and  production of reading materials for new literates and  the training of teachers for the elementary schools.  During the past two years we have had the pleasure  of receiving in our country disiinguished visitors such  as the Director-General, Mr. Luther Evans, his  assistant, Mr. Adiseshiah, and others from Unesco  headquarters, My Government has found these in-  frequent visits to Afghanistan by headquarters per-  sonnel very valuable, They have enabled us to give  more adequate expression to our needs and point of  view. We urge that the importance of such visits to  developing countries should not be underestimated,  and that they be encourared.  Since personal contact with, and intimate experience  of, various and diversified cultures are among the  most important factors in the encouragement of inter-  national understanding, and since the exchange of  technical experts and advisers helps the sharing of  knowledge and technology among different countriee,  my Government warmly welcomes the programme of  exchange of persons, especially in so far as it facili-  tates the recruitment of teachers and professors to  meet urgent needs at the university level.   Mr. President, it is our firm conviction that only  through intimate contact, mutual respect, and true
42  MEETINGS  co-operation between the peoples’of the world can  general friendship be secured, The cultivation of  genuine friendship with a view to bringing about  universal peace, however, requires sincerity and  lack of hypocrisy, We can remember many dis-  tinguished representatives at conferences of the  United Nations and its Specialized Agencies speaking  most eloquently on this subject, Masses of people  throughout the world who listenéd to their words were  beginning to cherish an even greater hope of peace  and tranquillity, They began to think and believe that  an era of prosperity and security was being ushered  in, and that their hopes and aspirations for interna-  tional peace and security were finally to be realized,  The recent aggressive conduct Kd certain people who  were more eloquent than othere ‘on this subject, and  who in fact were the real foundiirs of the interna-  tional organizations, is a clear Indication that there  is less justification for optimisiy, It is becoming  clearer now that their demands for justice and this  regard for human values were ere lip-service,  Today ar innocent and a peace-loving nation has be-  come the victim of flagrant and relentless aggression.  This unfortunate situation is threatening to rock the  very foundations of the United Nations and, with them,  the hopes and aspirations of the peoples of the world  who yearn for peace and for security.  We sincerely hope that the honourable delegates  gathered here will give serious thought and considera-  tion to planning and devising the programme of Unesco  in such a manner as to enable us to achieve our basic  alm, set forth in the preamble to the Constitution of  this Organization, in a more immediate future - the  achievement of which aim will, we are sure, ulti-  mately lead to true friendship amongst the nations of  the world.  Finally may I add, Mr, President, that on the  occasion of the reshaping of the programme of the  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural  Organization, and of its being given a new direction  and reorientation, it is desirable that the objectives  of the programme should he made such as to embrace  not only the scientific and technological training of  the individual, but the development and advancement  of the moral and spiritual values of humankind. For  only through the proper discipline of mind and spirit  can we achieve true understanding of human values  and promote that genuine fraternity and mutual res-  pect among peoples which is so indispensable for the  peace and tranquillity of the world at large. 1 thank  you.
(30) The PRESIDENT (Translation): Before we pro-  ceed further with the work of the Conference, 1 should  like to make two observations.  Those who have already sent in their names are of  course on the list of speakers already; any others  who wish to take part in the general discussion should  send in their names by 1 p.m. today. Naturally this  only applies to delegations already in New Delhi;  delegations which have not yet arrived in India will be  unable to send their names before 1 o'clock, and in  their case the question will be considered after they  have reached India,  In view of the very large number of speakers, I  appeal to all who want to participate in the general  discussion to try to limit their remarks and make   PLENARY  them as brief as possible. I do not want to impose  any very strict limitations, but I hope all members  will try to say whatever they want to say in about  twenty minutes,  I now call upon the delegate of Thailand,
(31) General PHROMYOTHI (Thailand): Mr, Presi-  dent and fellow delegates, 1 feel privileged and happy  to address a message to this distinguished gathering.  My first task ié the agreeable one of thanking, on be-  half of the Thai delegation, our hosts, the Govern-  ment and people of India, for their hospitality in  receiving the Conference in their capital city and for  providing such excellent facilities, It is with genuine  pleasure that the Thai delegation has come here to  participate in this memorable Conference, which is  being held on the friendly soil of India, The hoapi-  tality extended to us by the Government and people of  India makes us feel particularly pleased to have come  to this country; we find ourselves in a home from  home.  There is no gainsayirg the fact that Unesco has  rendered valuable service to the good cause of  democracy and to the preservation of world peace.  I can assure you that we Thai are ready and willing  to co-operate with all nations in inspiring the rising  generations with a healthier and more constructive  spirit, so that world peaee and security may be main-  tained for the good of humanity and civilization.  Since its establishment, Unesco has gained ever-  increasing popularity with the Thai people. No one  can deny the fact that Unesco has done good service  to Thailand and her people. The Unesco specialists  and experts appointed to Thailand have been doing  their utmost to fulfil their missions. Thus, on the  practical side, Unesco has already offered consider-  able help, particularly in the provision of technical  training, We are now able to welcomé students and  research workers from neighbouring and other coun-  tries at the International Institute for Child Study and  at the Thalland-Unesco Fundamental Education Centre,  as well as at the varioue universities in our country.  Moreover, my country has been greatly honoured by  the frequent visits of members of the Secretariat.  Some of them aré éntrusted with the misn!on of giving  technical advice, and some participate in conferences.  All these visits are of tremendous benefit to the  development of my country, Our experts and specia-  lists in the fields of education, science and culture  have likewise been invited to go on study tours abroad  and to take an active part in Unesco conferences.  For these reasons, Unesco's influence is being felt  all over the country, and the Thai people have come  to realize its growing importance,  . Now I wish to draw the attention of all delegates  to the co-operation on the part of the Government  and peaple of Thailand with Unesco. Thailand recent-  ly welcomed delegates to the Study Conference on  Science Teaching held in Bangkok and sponsored by  the Government, and I am happy to report that it was  à great success. We in Thailand are looking forward  to welcoming more delegates and to sponsoring more  conferences in co-operation with Unesco - for  instance, the ninth session of the Pacific Science  Congress, which will be held in Bangkok next year.  In addition, with a view to making the Thai more  internationally- minded, 24 October, United Nations
43  MEETINGS 11-4  Day, has been made one of our national holidays, ;  The United Nations message is read to students all  over the country and pictures and photographs illus-  trating ite activities are shown to atudents and to the  general public as well, Public libraries, both in  Bangkok and in the provinces, are well stocked with  books, picture-books and pictures displaying the work  of Unesco, .  The programme proposed for our discussion in this  Conference is worthy of our closest attention, but the  third major project is of particular interest to the  Thal delegation, I have no doubt as fo its practica-  bility, and J am gure that it merits the approval of  all Member States, -It.has long been my strong con-  viction that East and West can be happily blended,  especially through mutuel understanding and apprecla-  tion by different peoples of one another's cultures,  Inter-cultural understanding and appreciation will  promote international peace and security and will  maintain just and honourable relations between nations,  It may not be an exaggeration to say that inter  cultural understanding and appreciation of one another's  cultures might, in some cases, prevent possible hos-  tilities more effectively than formal treaties, Take  India and Thailand for example. These two countries  have been good friends from time immemorial. This  friendship is based almost entirely on cultural con-  tacts between the two peoples extending into centuries  past,  We have been doing a great deal to promote ' ‘mutual  appreciation of Eastern and Western cultural values"  For example, since the West knows so little of Eas-  tern intellectual and moral values, several of our  representative classic works have been translated  into English and French, Our National Institute of  Culture is contemplating having more of our classics  translated and disseminated,  For my part, I strongly support the recommenda-  tion that a series of meetings be held, designed to  promote a better understanding amongat educationiats,  writers, artists, commentators on public affairs and  philosophers. I feel sure that peace-loving nations  will rejoice to see specialists from both East and  West working together at common tasks.  Mr, President, since I am a believer in the spirit  of international co-operation and mutual understand-  ing, I sincerely hope that this project will be seriously  considered by all thé delegates and unanimously  accepted, Let us hope that this session will be a  success, and that "mutual appreciation of Eastern  and Western cultural values" will serve to dissipate  mistrust and fear and to instil into Occident and Orient  mutual confidence and goodwill, leading to world peace  and security.
(32) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call upon the  delegate of El Salvador.
(33) Mr, BARON CASTRO (El Salvador) (Translation  from the Spanish): Mr. President, fellow delegates,  equality, balance and harmony between all nations,  regardless of their size, are basic aims of the inter-  national order established by the United Nations, and  we should do all in our power to prevent them from  being whittled down to empty promises, - It is no small  achievement to have knit together, at least in prin-  ciple, a world in which the various States, irrespective
11-4 PLENARY  of their size and power, may find a common meeting  ground where their discuséions, being peaceful, may  bear fruit, The channels for the expression of the  human spirit are many, and the accents of truth, jus-  tice and hope may be heard on thé lips of all,  Our Conference is opening in an atmosphere of  world-widè unrest,’ I shall not dwell on the points  made by authoritative spokesmen at the opening meet-  ing, yet it would be wrong to close our eyes to an  obvious truth; The empty seats - 16, according to the  count of our first votes - are a reminder of the con-  flict in which some States are éngaged, and of the  difficulties which the representatives of others have  had in reaching the seat of our Conference. These  absences, regrettable as they are in having deprived  us of the co-operation of esteemed colleagues, are  even more regrettable on account of the reasons be-  hind them,  The small countries, including that which I have the  honour to represent at this Conference, still keep  their fdith in the principles embodied in our Constitu-  tion and feel sure that they will eventually triumph.  The present crisis certainly does not mean the col-  lapse of our Organization, If, after ten years, it has  been unable to create an atmosphere of international  understanding, we must at least admit that whatever  degree of understanding exists is largely due to  Unesco's efforts.  Although we have a permanent mission, we are also  confronted with an immediate task, And both must be  related to present-day circumstances, trying though  these may be, But we are here to work, despite all  difficulties, to make our Organization more effective -  in short, to turn our whole-hearted attention to the  problems facing us and the discovery of ways of deal-  ing with them, bearing in mind that over and above  the opinions of our respective governments atand the  demands of those who will judge our conduct in terms  of the hopes they place in our work.  The delegation of El Salvador 18 not attending this  Conference in order to make any special claims that  might be regarded as "interested". If it ever enter-  tained any idea that its country has not received its  due share of benefits from our Organization, it  appreciates the difficulties that have so far beset  Unesco and does not, in the circumstances, consider  it timely to bring up any of these subjects in the  general discussion. It accordingly expresses its  approval of the Director-General's report and pays  tribute to the work carried out by the various execu-  tive bodies of our Organization, as well as to the zeal  shown by all its loyal and able staff members. Yet it  would be failing in its duty if it did not draw attention  to at least two specific questions of general interest,  on which it would be glad to see practical action taken  on a larger scale. This would not, only benefit our  Organization but also enhance its prestige among the  Spanish- and Portuguese-speaking peoples.  The first concerns the Regional Office for the Wes-  tern Hemisphere with its headquarters in Havana,  referred to in the Director-General's report (docu-  ment 9C/3, Part I, paragraph 1.42), Whilst paying  due tribute to the individual and collective work of all  responsible for this Office, it must be acknowledged  that the latter fulfils only to a very limited extent the  functions for which it was established. Ways of  remedying this anomaly stiould be considered at the
44  MEETINGS  appropriate place, but I feel obliged, while I am on  the subject of the Director-General's report, to draw  the Conference's attention to a point which should be  glven the most careful consideration,  The other matter is concerned with Unesco's genera  action in the member countries of thé Organization of  Central American States (ODECA), to which my coun-  try belongs; its headquarters are situated in our  capital, San Salvador, This action must be increased  and placed on a more regular and permanent footing,  My country, together with the other members of  ODECA, is among the oldest of Unéaco'a Member  States and is likewise one which has always consolen-  tiously fuifilled its obligations, even though it has not  enjoyed much share in membership of Unesco's govern  irig bodies, I sincerely hope that this situation will be  remedied at the present session of the Conference.  Since El Salvador is, togethér with the other Spanish  speaking countries (Colombia, Costa Rica, Chilé,  Ecuador, Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Nicaragua,  Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Spain and Venezuela), a-  member of the Ibero-American Bureau of Education  (OEI) - an intergovernmental organization which began  operations in 1949 - and I myself represent my coun-  try on OEl's Governing Board, the latter made me  responsible for representing the Bureau at this session  of Unesco's Conference, The Bureau is one of the  youngest intergovernmental organizations, but already  has a long record of achievement behind it. Since its  last Congress in Quito, it has held, in Madrid, an  important seminar on technical education, attended by  representatives of 15 Ibero-American countries and  observers from various international bodies, including  Unesco. Relations between the Ibero-American Bureau  of Education and Unesco are growing constantly closer,  and the Director-General's report (document 8C/3,  I. 307) shows that negotiations are in progress between  the two organizations which, in accordance with the  intentions of both parties, should result in full agree-  ment, of mutual advantage.  Before closing, I should like, in my twofold capacity  as Head of the delegation of El Salvador and observer  for the Ibero-American Bureau of Education, and on  my own behalf, to convey to the authorities and people  of the noble country which is receiving us with its  traditional courtesy our deep gratitude for its hospi-  tality and our warm good wishes for a great and pros-  perous future.
(34) The PRESIDENT (Translation):  delegate of Iran.  I call upon the
(35) Mr. HEKMAT (Iran): Mr. President, the dele-  gation of Iran is highly gratified to see convened, in  New Delhi, the ninth session of the General Con-  ference of Unesco.  The ancient historical origins of both our nations,  the cultural and spiritual links which have bound India  and Iran together from time immemorial, always give  Iranians in India the immediate pleasant feeling of  being at home. The old traditional attitudes are, in  fact, causing our two countries to collaborate side by  side in the field of culture and learning. .  Hence the Iranian delegation shares with the great  people of India a sense of pleasure that the United  Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organiza-  tion should have chosen this seat of ancient culture   PLENARY  for the ninth session of its General Conference, At  the same time, it joins with all the other delegations  to the Conference in expressing its warmest appre-  ciation and gratitude to the people and the Govern-  ment of India for their warm welcome and generous  hospitality,  Ladies and gentlemen, much can be said about the  execution of the programme over the last two years;  there is also a great deal to say about the future pro-  gramme of an international organization such as  Unesco, whose fleld of activity ranges over so many  and such diverse educational, scientific and cultural  disciplines, It bas been in existence for roughly ten  years and a great deal should be said about the suc-  cess it has achieved in this comparatively short  period of time..  That is why we attach the greatest importance to  the general discussions, which must be a source of  inspiration to the main Commissions and the specia-  lized committees when they proceed to the minute and  detailed examination of the questions on the agenda.  We consider that, in so serious an analysis, the  deliberations and comments should bear both on the  Director-General's report on the last two financial  years and on the proposed programme as submitted  to this Conference. Only thus, through rational and  harmonious eyolution, can we maintain the continuity  of the work begun,  Before proceeding to make a few general remarks,  I should like to thank most sincerely the Executive  Board, the Director-General and his collaborators  for all they have accomplished in the implementation  of the programme for 1955-1956 and in preparing the  Proposed Programme and Budget for 1957-1958,  I should in particular like to express my deep  appreciation of the contribution made by the Director-  General himself, whose valuable services, ! as Chair-  man of the Iranian National Commission for Unesco,  have witnessed personally.  In considering the inevitable complexity of inter-  national activities which must, if they are to achieve  fruitful and valuable results, take cognizance not  ouly of general principles but also of local conditions,  needs ani possibilities, one can only express one's  admiration of the efforts made.  Nevertheless, we feel that certain comments are  called for - in the first place, on the presentation  and the contents of the Director-General's report  and the proposed programme and budget, We con-  sider that the Director-General's report to the  General Conference ought to be quite different, in  form and content, from his regular annual and perio-  dical reports submitted to the Member States and  the Executive Board, which give a most interesting  and detailed analysis of the Organization's activities.  The Secretariat could refer, without repeating them,  to the facts and data already given in the annual and  periodical reports submitted to the Member States  previously, and therefore already known to them.  Such a report could consist of a summary review of  the Organization's situation and evolution. It would  be interesting if it included pertinent comments on  the new experiments, activities, conceptions and  methods introduced by Unesco between the two ses-  sions of the General Conference. With the elucida-  tions and comments of the highest officials of the  Secretariat, the General Conference would be able to  MEETINGS
11-4  find in the report an explanation for such and such a  success or such and such a failure; it would find in  it the justification for the elaboration or continuance  of one activity or the reasons for dropping another.  Leaving to the General Conference the appreciation  of the results of the work done and the elaboration of  the main lines of the policy to be adopted, the Director-  General would be furnishing the preliminary infor -  mation necessary for such an appreciation and  elaboration.  These remarks are, in general, algo applicable to  the proposed programme and budget, We should like  to see this document drawn up in such a way as to  enable the General Conference to devote most of its  time to the discussion of fundamental problems, the  guidance of future activities and the distribution of the  funds among the various departments, without its  being expected to go into the details of the budget  headings and subdivisions - which are, and will con-  stantly be, subject to revision and examination by the  Secretariat and the Executive Board during the elabo-  ration and execution of the programme. , In short, we  believe that if these documents were prepared and  presented in the manner suggested, they would gain  enormously in clarity, brevity and usefulness; they  would clarify the situation, make matters easier to  understand, and raise the level and increase the  interest of the discussions at the General Conference;  they would forge a solid link between the past, the  present and the future, and would bring out clearly  the respective obligations and responsibilities of the  Member States, the Secretariat, the Executive Board  and the General Conference.  In the course of the present debate, we should like  to go into certain questions relating, more particularly,  to the following problems: the absolute necessity of  reducing costs and the administrative staff; the  equitable geographical distribution of posts in the Sec-  retariat, without of course detriment to the principle  of efficiency and professional qualification; the re-  vision of the present structure and working of the  centres and regional offices, to enable them truly to  serve the interests of all the countries of the region  concerned; the inadequate length of the periods of  fellowships, together with the conditions under which  fellowships are awarded; and so forth.  However, in accordance with the Executive Board's  recommendation, we shall limit ourselves to a few  observations on the subject of the major projects.  We wholeheartedly agree with the principle upon  which these major projects are based, particularly  since their implementation may encourage collabora-  tion between several countries with a view to the  solution of problems which may be peculiar to them,  but nevertheless interest all the world.  We find the major project on the mutual apprecia-  tion of Eastern and Western cultural values most  interesting. At the same time, during the period of  elaboration and execution of this project, certain  ideas at present lacking in precision will need clari-  fication; it will be necessary to avoid any possible  misunderstanding, and care will have to be taken  to ensure that the aim of the project - although  this is unquestionably the promotion of better  understanding between the peoples - does not give  rise to certain misunderstandings and wrong  interpretations, or become the excuse for the
1-4 PLENARY  transference of certain political antagonisms to  the culture) plane, ,  The maj¢r project concerned with scientific re-  search on rid lands seems to us to be well conceived,  for it is Tdsed on realistic foundations and concrete  data; but although it gives promise of easier prac-  tical application and offers immediate possibilities  of development and extension, it is disappointing to  note that the budgetary allocations are very meagre  and several times lower than those suggested for the  other two major projects,  About Iranian collaboration with Unesco 1 shall say  little, since it is described in detail in the report  submitted by my Government and the Iranian National  Commission, which appears in document 9C/4  (Reports of Member States). I should simply like to  say that Iran, ever conscious of Unesco's mission  and confident of its future, has spared and ill spare  no effort to contribute to the success of this great  human undertaking. Iran would like to express its  deep appreciation of the work already accomplished,  and its fervent hopes for the continued success of  Unesco. .  Mr. President, my dear colleagues, the extremely  grave events which are at present taking place in the  Middle East and in certain other parts of the world  fill us with great concern. Expressing our deep  emotion, we vigorously reaffirm the principle of  respect for the sovereignty and the integrity of all  countries in their international differences.  My country firmly believes in the paramount im-  portance of the fundamental principle of non-  intervention in the internal affairs of other countries.  My delegation joins sincerely with the declarations  which Mr. Nehru, the Prime Minister of India, made  on this subject at the first meeting of our session.  We firmly believe that all disputes and conflicts be-  tween the peoples must be regulated only by pacific  means.  Finally we feel confident that by the happy inter-  vention of the United Nations a durable and just peace  will speedily be achieved, and we hope that the threat  of war, with the adverse effect it exerts on the pro-  gress of international collaboration in the field of  knowledge, will be effaced.  SPEECHES BY THE REPRESENTATIVES OF MOROCCO AND NIGERIA
(36) The PRESIDENT (Translation): Today we have  welcomed into the brotherhood of Unesco three new  members - Morocco, Tunisia and Nigeria.
1 am very happy to learn that the delegation of  Morocco is present here. ‘  I call upon the head of the Moroccan delegation,
(37) Mr. EL FASSI (Morocco) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it is  with real emotion that I express my thanks to this  international gathering for having admitted our young  country to membership. Ata moment when the world  is thrown into confusion by what is universally des-  cribed as an outrage, whereas Unesco was established  to consolidate the foundations of peace, we must hope,  that, thanks to the solidarity of the nations which -  are devoted to this cause, peace will return and be  strengthened in the world.  MEETINGS
46  I do not want to take up much time on this, the first  occasion on which 1 have the honour to speak in this  assembly, I should simply like to thank the noble  Indian nation for the magnificent reception it has given  us; and I should particularly like to thank Mr. Nehru,  the Prime Minister, for all that he has done for the  cause of peace, and for the freedom of my own coun-  try in particular.
(38) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call upon the  delegate of Nigeria.
(39) Mr. COOMASSIE (Nigeria): Mr, President, on  Lehalf of Nigeria, my colleague and I tender to you  and to the delegates to the ninth session of the General  Conference of Unesco.our greetings and most grateful  thanks for the honour which you have conferred on us  today by admitting. the Federation of Nigeria to  Associate Membership of the United Nations Educa-  tional, Scientific and Cultural Organization. This  event will give deep satisfaction to the peoples and  Governments of the Federation of Nigeria,  Nigeria is the largest British dependent territory.  In size it is approximately equal to Pakistan, and  nearly four times the area of the United Kingdom.  Within {ts 373, 000 square miles there are more than
32,000,000 people, of whom all’but 16, 000 are  Africans. Nigeria is thus the most populous country  of the African continent and by far the largest unit of  African racial origin in the world, There are many  tribes within Nigeria and there is great variety in  language and religion, Social organization and cul-  ture also vary over a wide range. These differences,  the political divisions, and the uneven spread of  wealth, all militaté against uniform progress in  education. But Nigeria has decided that it can better  afford the cost of education than the waste of illiteracy;  and the International Bank mission which visited  Nigeria in 1954 saw the popular enthusiasm for educa-  tion as one of the most encouraging signs for the  country's future.  The Federation of Nigeria consists of three units,  comparable to states or provinces in other federations.  These units are known as Regions ‘and, with the Trust  Territory of the Southern Cameroons and the Federal  Capital of Lagos; they constitute the Federation of  Nigeria. Each Region is wholly responsible for all  education in its area except that provided at our in-  stitutes of higher education and at certain specialist  schools, In the Western Region free universal pri-  mary education was started nearly two years ago and  nearly 400,000 new admissions were made in 1955.  Free universal primary education will be introduced  in the Federal Capital of Lagos and in the Eastern  Region in two months! time. Thus over a large part  of our country this great objective - surely the natural  birthright of everyone - is becoming a reality. In the  Northern Region, too, great progress is béing made  and new facilities arè being developed which will  bring the output of trained teachers to over 1,000 a  year; but this Region was a slow starter owing to the  inability of the Christian Missions, the main educa-  tional agents in earlier days, to establish themselves  in Moslem territory.  Despite the International Bank mission's pronounce-  ment that "education in Nigeria has been undergoing  remarkable expansion", and despite the increased   PLENARY  pace of expansion since those words were written,  no one in Nigeria is complacent or even satisfied re-  garding the progress which has been made,  We hope to double the secondary school enrolment  under our present five-year economic programme,  and already the secondary school output is tending to  outstrip the rapid developrrent of our University Col-  lege and our College of Arts, Science and Technology,  which have grown from nothing to impressive insti-  tutions of higher education, with a student population  of over a thousand, in the past eight years. Next  year we shall add to these a teaching hospital which  will provide clinical training, for London University  medical degrees, for 50 doctors a year.  These are the bricks and mortar of our educational  progress in Nigeria; but we know, in the words of a  former Minigter of Education, that ... "it is not  going to school and passing examinations that turns a  child into an educated person. What he gains from  school is merely the training and basic knowledge  which equip him to begin his education, When he  comes out into the world he is like a carpenter with a  bag of tools and the skill to use them well; but the  important thing is, what is he going to make with  them?"  The Nigerian leaders know that the population,  adults as well as schoolchildren, must be trained in  special responsibilities. Fundamental education,  including adult literacy campaigns, community dev-  elopment, university extra-mural work, and character  training at specialized centres such as our Man O'War  Bay Training Centre, form an important part of the  social services throughout the territory. More par-  ticularly in these spheres we hope for Unesco's help  and guidance in the future - indeed, some help is  being given to us already - and I should like to take  this opportunity of expressing my thanks for the  Unesco fellowship which has just been awarded to me.  I was informed of this as I was leaving home to re-  MEETINGS In-4
47  present my country here at this Conference; and I  look forward very mich to the opportunity I shall have  of staying for some months in India and of visiting  the neighbouring countries of Burma, Pakistan and  Ceylon to study at first hand their achievements in  fundamental education, But though we welcome it,  we have not waited inactively for outside help, Nigeria  knows that all progress springs from education, and  that it is the strong pulsating life flowing through this  great country today which has brought Nigeria to the  threshold of nationhood,  We are deeply grateful to our sponsor, the Govern-  ment of the TJnited Kingdom, for its understanding  tutelage and help which, based on freedom, equality  and justice, have brought us over the past fifty years  to our present stage of development. The next stage  in Nigé:ta's constitutional progress will follow from  a conference which is to be held in London in the near  future, and the preoccupation of political leaders with  preparations for this next important milestone has  resulted in their sending a Civil Servant here today  to discharge the duty and privilege which I am now  concluding,  Mr. President, and delegates to this ninth session  of the General Conference, in accepting the honour  you huve accorded to Nigeria today, an honour which  is deeply appreciated, the Government of Nigeria  would wish me to assure you that they will exercise  their new responsibilities in a manner worthy of that  honour, and in full compliance with the rules and basic  agreements of this Organization. We hope to contri-  bute to the work and ideals inspiring this Organization  and we hope that, going forward in partnership with  all the other Member States, we may contribute, irres-  pective of raclal, religious or political differences,  to the enlightenment of all the peonles of the world.  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.