10 November 1956, at 3.45 p.m,  President: Maulana AZAD (India)  CONTENTS  Discussion of the Report of the Administrative Commission  on the right to vôte of China, . . + vv + v4 0 ou 144  Questionof Peru's right to vote . . 0. + « + 0 0 + 0 0 0 . 147  Discussion of the Report of the Administrative Commission  on draft Amendments to the Constitution a d the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference . . . « . . . . , 148  General discussion of the Director-General's Report and  the Proposed Programme and Budget for 1957-1958 (con-  timed): Speeches by the delegates of Iraq, Mexico, Sudan,  Peru and Tunisia. . .  DISCUSSION OF THE REPORT OF THE: ADMINISTRATIVE COMMMESON  ON THE RIGHT TO VOTE OF CHINA
(1) ‘The PRESIDENT (Translation): The meeting is  to open ‘this afternoon ‘ with document bC/14, which is  before you! the Report of the Administrative Com-  mission on China's right to vote. 1 call upon the Rap-  porteur of the Administrative Commission.
(2) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) (Rapporteur of the  Administrative’ Commission) (Translation from the  French): The Administrative Corimission considered  documents 9C/12 and 0C/12 Add, , containing two  letters from the Government of China on the subject  of the Chinese délegation's right to vote.  The Chairman drew attention to the provisions of  Article IV C, 8, paragraphs (b) and (c), of the Consti-  tation, relating to the right to vote of Member States.  The delegate of China made a statement in support of  his Government's request. “He drew the Commission's  attention, in particular, to thé decision which the  Government of China had taken to vaisé its token  annual contribution to Unesco from $14,000 to $50,000.  After à'discussion, the Commission took a vote on  the question, and decided, by 28 votes to 11, with 6  abstentions and 19 members absent, to recommend to  the General Conference that the delegation of China  be granted the right to vote at all meetings of the ninth  session of the General Conference.
(3) The PRESIDENT (Translation): Does anybody  wish to speak on this Report? I call upon the delegate  of the Soviet Union, -
(4) Mr, KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-.  lice) (Translation from the Russian): Mr, President,  fellow delegatzs, we are confronted with a problem
008 6 0 0 8 8 285 0 0 08 150  which is a clear example of the consi:quences of the  wrong decision takèn by our Conferdnce on thé cred-°  entials of the Kuomintang represen‘ativés.’ I shall not  remind you here of the ressons of principle we Jan"  given to show why it is illegal tor members of the |  Kuomintang to occupy the seat of China in Unesco, ‘sad  why their presence here sérvès ho useful purpose trom  the point of view of the interests of Uneaco itself, buf  shall confine myself to the finencial side of the matter.  I shall simply say that the financial position also clesr-  ly reflects the fact that the Kuomintang representatives  represent nobody, and have behind them no State, no  nation, and no country.  The Administrative Commission's recommendation  on this subject cannot be rregarded as in any way satis-  factory, because it is entirely divorced from the facts  of the case and incorrectly refers to an Article of the  Unesco Constitution. When we explained the Soviet  delegation's view that the members of the Kuomintang  represent nobody, and thit the members of the Kuomis-  tang attending Unesco mestings are the spokesmen and |  representatives neither of the Chinese people nor of  the Chinese State, no ont could object with regard to  the facts of the case. Nôw that we are dealing with  the question of payment of contributions, however, it:  is plain that those who have sent this delegation here  have no right whatsoever to call themselves the Gover:  ment of China nor to represent the Chinese State amd ‘  people. They are unable to fulfil any kind of obligations  on behalf of China, the Chinese Stato and the Chinese -  people.  Article IV, paragraph 8(c), of Unesco's Constitution  provides that the General Conference may grant the  right to vote to the delegation of a State which has =  arrears of contributions exceeding a certait level, nm  the Conference is satisfied that the failure to pay is  due to conditions beyond the control of the country   PLENARY MEETINGS 11-11  cœacer ed, But, gentlemen, itis perfectly evident  that thin provision of the Constitution is meant to .  apply to cases in which the arrears of contributions -  are due to temporary causes of some kind which will  eliminated in the near future, What are the facts  in the case before us? ~The arrears of the Kuomintang  group started to mount up in 1948, snd hive now  reached a figure of nearly $5,000,000, Such being the  case, the so-called "token" increase of the annual  contribution proposed by the Kuomintang group - to
850,000, in place of the $480,000 a year required in  accordance with the scale of contributions - is down-  right laughable, This "token" increase has however -  strange as it may seem - received the support of the  Administrative Commission, although I should men-  lion that when the matter was considered by the Ad-  ministrative Comission there were only 28 votes in  favour of the decision, and 11 against, with 6 absten-  tions and 19 delegations absent and not taking pert in  the vote,  The recommendation of. the Administrative Commis-  sion presented to us today means not only that we have  to suffer the seat of Ciiina at the General Conference  to be filled by illegal répresentatives - the members  of the Kuomintang - who represent nobody and who,  as the voting on their credentials has shown, cannot  command as much as half the votes in our Conference.’  The recommendation of the Administrative Commis-  sion also means that, for some reason or other, we  must, in violation of the Constitution of Unesco, grant  special and exceptional privileges to the members of  the Kuomintang, who owe Unesco $4,184,764 up to  and including 1955, apart from the 1956 contribution,  which has not been paid either.  These arrears long ago disqualified the Kuomintang  from voting, and, naturally enough, this matter came  ip at the sixth, seventh and eighth sessions of Unesco's  General Conference, Now it is being raised, once  more, at this ninth session.  What does the récommendation of the Administrative  Commission propose we should do? It proposes that  ve should {guére this huge arrears of contributions,  of many years! standing, and introduce special, ex-  cepidonal privilcz+s for the Kuomintang members by  slowing them to vote. But the appeal to Article IV,  prograph 8, sub-paragraph (c) of thé Constitation  wil not hold water. The Constitution refers to a Mem-  bor State in arrears for the current and immediately  meceding years. But the cage at present under dis-  œæssion is not provided for by the Constitution at all,  béause the arrears are of many years' - eight years! -  shading,  Characteristically, Unebco documents feflect a  tertain tendericy to give some sort of ‘encouragement  to this failure of the Kuomintang to'pay its éontribu-  tions, - If you examine the Proposed Budget,‘ the Finan-  tial Report of the Director-General and the Report of  the External Auditor, you will find that the Unesco  Secretariat is providing for the fact that the Kuomin-  tang will not pay in the future either; and planning in  tévance for its failure to contribute for another two  yore, Since, however, it is iriconvenient to call this  by its right name, it had hitherto appeared under the  Mading: "undistributed reserve.’ Thus any reader  of Unesco's documents was given the impression that  Vätsco had undistributed funds in reserve and that,  whéhever money wao needed for the Organization's
145     work, this reserve could be used to carry out  Unesco's programme, FEN A LS  If you look at the Financial Report, unde tacoma’,  section 3, however, you will find an undistributed -  reserve of $480, 265, Fancy this reserve being caleul-  ated with such accuraéy! ‘ ‘It is already known before-  hand that this precise sum is to be undistributed! .  If you turn to Annex IV to the Financial Report of .  the Director-General and look at the table entitled;  "Contributions receivable from Member States as at
31 December 1855", you will see shown opposite to  the Kuomintang : here called Chins - thé figure of  $480,266: a discrépancy, you observe of only one  dollar between ihe two parts of the document - surely  something more than a éurious coincidence. .  This means that there can in fact be no question  here of undistributed resérve. It is simply a  formula used to disguise a systematic failure on the  part of the Kuomintang to pay its contributions; a  formula under which Kuomintang arrears were planned  for and - strange as it may seem - under which future  ones are even now being provided for in advance, -  Such are the spacial privileged conditions accorded  to the Kuomintang in Unesco, However, it is becom-  ing difficult to disguise this state of affairs any longer;  it is too obvious. We have only now learnt of the  recommendation of the Administrative Commission,  which, considering the budget and dealing with this  question of contributions and thé scale of contributions,  provides that five per cent of thé total amount of con-  tributions will probably not be forthcoming. - That is  the Administrative Conimission!'s forecast. This  same five per cent of the total contributions seems,  once again, to be the scheduléd future unpaid contri-  bution of the Kuomintang.’ Thus, fellow delegates,  the Kuomintang representatives are being directly  invited, by this decision which the Administrative  Commission is recommending for our adoption, not to  pay their contribution in the future élther.  In the rather impertinent letter sent to the mem-  bers of the Executive Board, to which reference is  madé in thé Administrative Commission's recommen-  dation, the Kuomintang group said that they would  continué in the future to make this same request not  to pay their contribution, or to pay some "token"  contribution.  The quéstion arises) fellow delegates, who is to  pay for the Kuomintang? - Perhaps you imagine that  those who support them should do so? No: what is  being proposed to us, what it i hoped to impose on  us, is that we should all take it upon ourselves to  support the Kuomintang in Unesco, -  As may be seen from the réport on contributions  of Member States which hag been approved by the .  Administrative Commission, instesd of $21, 350, ‘638  the Member States of Unesco will pay $32,341,724  in the forthcoming budgetary perfod. :  Consequently, those who go by the name of the  representatives of Chine, and: in point of fact, re-  present the Kuomintang group; are being maintained  at the expeñse of all the other Member States of -  Unesco.‘’ For the doubtful pleasure of seeing these -  gentlemen in Unesco; Member States have been  obliged for eight years now, and are to be obliged : -  for nine years, ten yéers and so on interrninably, to  pay out of their own pocket by an increase of their  contributions.   I-11 ; PLENARY MEETINGS  A peculiar situation has come about in which an  illegal delegation is included in the membership of  Unesco; it is not paying and is not going to pay any  contribution, and yet demands to be allowed voting  rights, -  The delegation of the Soviet Union strongly protests  against the adoption of the Administrative Commis-  sion's recommendation regarding the right of the  Kuomintang to vote, on the grounds of non-payment of  contributions, and will vote against the recommendation.  Thank you, Mr. President.
(5) The PRESIDENT (Translation): Would anyone like  to speak on this point? I call upon the delegate of the  United States of America,  {6) Mr. SPAULDING (United States of America): The  sole issue upon which the General Conference has to  decide is whether or not the Republic of China con-  tinues to be unable to pay its full contribution to  Unesco because of circumstances outside its control.  There is no other point of debate; even the Soviet  delegate admitted yesterday in the Administrative Com-  mission that the political question of China's right to  be at this Conference had already been settled by the  vote taken in the plenary meeting on the credentials of  the Chinese delegation, -  I am sure other delegations share the view of the  United States that the facis applying to China's position  have in no way changed since the Conference agreed,  at the Montevideo and preceding sessions, that, be-  cause of circumstances outside its control, China was  not to make its full contribution, but came clearly  within provisions of our Constitution which make it  possible for a State to vote if the reason it is unable  to make its full contribution is that circumstances  beyond its control place it in that position,  Accordingly, the United States delegation will vote  affirmatively on the resolution to accord the Chinese  delegation the right to vote at the ninth session of the  General Conference of Unesco.
(7) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call upon the  delegate of China.
(8) Mr, TSENG (China): Mr. President, fellow dele-  gates, this is not a question of whether China has any  right to be here or what kind of Government w  have :  representing the people. The question before us today  is simply to find out the will of the Conference as to  whether we fall under the special provision - that is to  say, whether our default was due to reasons beyond our  control. ‘That is the crux of the matter, a very simple  matter indeed, I take it that when the Conference  decided to recognise the right of China to be present  bere, it had it in mind to make it possible to avail  itself of our contribution in cultural matters. And  therefore it would be contradicting itself if it were to  deny us the right to vote.
1 also wish to take this opportunity to clarify one or  two mistakes in language, One delegate spoke about  the Kuomintang group, or the Kuomintang group's en-  joying an illegal status of representation here. In the  official documents of the Conference I can see only.  references to the delegstion of the Republic of China,  I do not find anything about the Kuomintang, neither  does the Kuomintang demand representation here.
146     ‘It was also commented that our presence here wa  not legal, 1 think the legality of our presence is -  decided by the General Conference, and I do not think  any challenge to that decision is foot legal, .
1 think we all face a problem: the problem of keep  ing politics out of this Organization, which is purely  educational, cultural and scientific, I therefore think  we should try to expedite the matter, in view of the :  programme ahead of us, and I would very much appre-  ciate it if the President would put the matter to the  vote right away.
(9) The PRESIDENT (Translation): Does anybody -,  else wirh to speak on thie point? If not, I will put.  the Report of the Administrative Commission, docu-  ment 9C/14, to the vote. 1 call upon the delegate of  the Soviet Union,
(10) Mr, KEMFNOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lcs) (Translation from the Russian): Mr, President,  fellow delegates, as the representative of the United  States of America has put forward the argument thet  the Kuomintang have not paid, are not paying and will  not pay contributions to Unesco until they - as te put  it - control the mainland of China, or in other words,  has given a definitely political reason, with which it  is quite impossible to agree, I request the President  to take the vote by roll-call on this question. Thank  you.
(11) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call upon the  delegate of Bulgaria.
(12) Mr. GUECHKOV (Bulgaria): Mr, President, -  gentlemen, delegates, the Bulgarian delegation en-  tirely supports the position of the Soviet delegation :  about the right of the Kuomintang delegation to parti-  cipate in this Conferenée. The question of the ,  Kuomintang delegates’ voting at this session is not à  question of a formal character, because it is also à  question of membership in Unesco.  The delegation of the People's Republic of Bulgaria  also supports the latest proposal of the Soviet dele-  gation that the vote be taken L roll-call,
(13) The PRESIDENT (Translation): Does anybody  else wish to speak on this? If not, we will take a  vote by roll-call on document 9C/14. The vote can  now begin.
(14) The vote was taken by roll-call:  Voted in favour: Argentina, Australia, Austria,  Belgium, Brazil, Colombia, Cuba, El Salvador,  France, Federa) Republic of Germany, Greece, -  Guatemala, Haiti, Iran, Iraq, Italy, Japan, Korea,  Laos, Lebanon, Mexico, Mc onaco, Netherlands, New  Zealand, Pakistan, Panama, Philippines, Spain,  Thailand, Turkey, United States of America,  Venezuela, Viet-Nam;  Voted against; Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Union of  Burma, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Ceyics,  Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, Hungary,  Indontais, Norway, Poland, Rumania, Sweden,  Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics, United Kingdom, Yugoslavia;   PLENARY MEETINGS  Abstained: Canada, India, Israel, Morocco, Nepal,  Saudi Arabia, Switzerland; )  Absent: Bolivia, Cambodia, Chile, Costa Rica,  Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Honduras,  Jordan, Liberia, Libya, Luxembourg, Nicaragua,  Paraguay, Syria, Tunisia, Union of South Africa,  Uruguay.
(18) The PRESIDENT (Translation): The result of  the roll-call is as follows: in favour: 33; against:
19; abatentions: 7; absent: 18. The report, docu-  ment 8C/14, 1s therefore adopted.
1 call upon the delegate of El Salvador.  QUESTION OF PERU'S RIGNT TO VOTE  {16} Mr. BARON CASTRO (El Salvador) (Translation  from the Spanish): Mr, President, fellow delegates,  at yesterday's meeting of the Administrative Commis-  “ ton, the question of the right of the repreaentatives  of the Republic of Peru to vote at this ninth session of  the General Conference of our Organization was  The Chairman of the Commission ruled that the  delegation of the Republic of Pern at this session was  not entitled to vote, or rather, that it would have the  right to voté as soon as the Director-General of  Unesco had been advised by the Bank concerned that  the contribution owed by Peru, that is, the part of the  contribution outstanding, which is really very small -  barely $2,200 - had been paid to the credit of the  Organization.  The delegate of Peru explained clearly and convinc-  ingly that his country had paid this contribution or,  rather that the money had already left Lima for Paris,  so that tne Peruvian permanent delegate could hand  over the money to Unesco, as stated in an official tele-  gram which the Peruvian representative had received  from his Government and which he had in his posses-  sion.  Certain delegations, including my own, took the  viaw, at the meeting of the Commission, that a mere  formality was at issue. The Director-General is  clearly domiciled at Unesco's headquarters in Paris,  but it Le just as clear that he, like the rest of us, is  at some distance from Paris at the present time, and  communications, as we all know, are difficult.  We had occasion to remark the presence of our  ‘ Director-General last night, at his brilliant reception  st Hyderabad House, but he cannot be simultaneously  here with us in New Delhi and in Paris, The whole  qestion, therefore, is merely one of form and pro-  cedure,  Accordingly, we should accept the statement of the  delegate of Peru that his Government has paid its  wetribution, even though the Director-General here  bas not received formal advice of its receipt. The  Government of Peru is not asking for a reduction in its  contribution, but merely that the present abnormal  trcumstances be taken into consideration, so that the  contribution which has been sent from Lima to Paris  may be regarded as already received by Unesco.  Understanding and giving due weight to these argu-  ments, therefore, the Administrative Commission  yesterday voted unanimously in favour of this proposal.
11-11  I accordingly wish, in the name. of the delegation of  Fl Salvador, to propose that the Administrative Com-  mission's favourable decision on this matter be sub-  mitted to this plenary meeting.
(17) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call upon the  delegate of Spain.
(18) Mr, ROYO VILLANOVA (Spain) (Translation  from the Spanish); Mr, President, gentlemen, the  question submitted to the Conference for copsidera-  tion is a very serious one, since it affects the most  important right that a Member State of Unesco can  possess: the right to vote. This does not involve a  mere expression of opinion, the passing of a judge-  ment, but is an expression of each country's will,  The Conference must not be debarred from con-  sidering this question for reasons of procedure which,  in my opinion, do not exist, It is true that Article
5,8 of the Financial Regulations states that the  Director-General shall submit to the regular session  of the General Conference a report on the collection  of contributions and advances to the Working Capital  Fund, It is also true that this report states that  China and Peru are in arrears with their payments.  We have seen this question raised and decided in  China's favour at the present session of the Conference,
1 feel that the Conference must also consider whether  Peru is in fact in arrears in its payments or not.  The fact that it was stated in the Director-Geperal's  report that Peru was in arrears at that time is not  the end of the matter; there is no reason why, when  adequate proof has been received, this Conference  should not take a decision, in the light of what has  since occurred, to rectify Peru's position, which has,  in fact, changed.  Yesterday, the Administrative Commission; by au  ample mnjority, decided that Peru should be con-  sidered as having paid its arrears. ‘ It did so on evi-  dence in the form of à telegram worded as follows:  Remitted airmall 5 November cheque dollars 2, 200  to Garcia Calderon, permanent delegate, Paris,  signed Cisneros, Minister of External Relations,  Peru, In other words, the Commission had before it  a telegram in which the country's Minister confirmed  the dispatch of the sum necessary to cover the contri-  bution, payable to the Peruvian permanent delegate to  Unesco, who has, moreover, been a member of the  Executive Board, ‘  It would therefore bo contrary to the principles of  justice and equity to refuse the Républic of Peru the  right to vote. re is more than enough evidence  for us to consider the contribution as paid. It may be  that, this very day, the telegram has already reached  Unesco. Surely-a country can not be deprived of its  rights on the strength of a doubt? If there were any  doubt, Peru should be given the benefit of it and )  allowed to exercise its right. And so I believe that,  in this case, to cling without legal justification to a  regulation, when that regulation does not prevent the  Conference from judging the case on its merits, would  illustrate the principle of summum jus, summa  injuris.  I therefore ask the Conference to take a  decision on the report of the Administrative Com-  mission relating to the payment made by the  Republic of Peru.   I-11" PLENARY
(18) The PRESIDENT (Transiationk 1 call upon the  delegate of Peru. ;
(20) Mr. J OCHAMOWITZ (Peru) (Translation from  the Spanish): Mr, President, gentlemea, 1 have  agked’ permission to ‘speak at this moment chiefly in  order to express my deep gratitude to the delegate of  El Salvador and to the distinguished leader of the  Spanish delegation,  What they have said on iriy ‘country's behalf has  touchèd mé to the bottom of my heart ind truly T have  no words to express my gratitude, I éxtend this  gratitude also tô all the delégates who spoke in favour  of Peru’ yesierday,’ ‘and by their votes emphatically  approved | the proposal that the Peruvian delegation be  allowed to vote at this Conference, ::  I do not hink it necéssary to pit forward any fur-  ther arguiñents after the very conviñcing ones you  have just heard. I will simply ask ore further ques-  tion. Why are the Regulations being’ ‘applied : 80  strictly in this case? I \inderstand tljat the General  Commitiee might fear that a Teil would be  affa most extra-  A inary, ob now in arrears to the. extent of  $5,000,000 creates a ‘precédent, "dd what is Peru's  case in comparison? "It is not ‘even!feally a ‘preced-  ent, since Peru has’ ‘paid, the moiiéÿ has béén rè-  mitied, and what his happened té die to communica-  ton ‘difficulties and nothing more,’ "And this is the  reñson invoked for withdrawing P ruts right to vote,  or, fn other words, preventing iti l'delegate from !  taking any part in thé Conference} Surely this it too  great a penalty té impose tor sortéthing over which ‘  neither my country nor anyone ‘êlbé had any control,  for which nothing but present cir'&imataïices éan be:  blamed. Moreover, if it isa mf ter of applying the  regulations, Article IV, paragr poli’ 8," of the Conati-  tution states clearly’ that Membe ‘States may be‘ pert  mitted to'vote if the’ Conference: ih satisfied that thé  failure to pay is ‘die to conditiol Hs beyond. the control  of the Member Nations concernbd: This is exactly the  present case. Peru has not tated to pay because it  could not pay; it has paid, but the money has not yet  arrived, owing to the present  more, it the President deems ‘that I ähould not be  granted the right to vote becaÿse Peru has not paid,  or bécause of the non-arrival of the ‘money, 1 can  draw $2,200 here and now oui ‘of my own account.  Here is the cheque, Mr. President; it {a at your dis-  posal if you so desire. That is all 1 have to say.
(21) The PRESIDENT (Translation): 1 call upon the  Director- General,
(22) The DIRECTOR: CoRNEHALi Mr, President,’ the  debate in the Adminiatrativé  Commfsaton took Place  upon the basis of a télegraï  dated 7 November and recsfijed at 3.18 p.m,’ on 8  November. It told us that gläthorization to pay had  been given by the Governméint. This meant that,  within the Government of F tru, the necessary autho-  rity had been given to writé a chequé. But, under the  Constitution, the Director-General has té have re-  ceived the cheque. At 8 Nivember, the latest infor-  mation that was available to the Administrative Com-  mission, and the latest information available to me  flreunistañcés, Further-  l'trôim Unesco headquarters,  MEETINGS
148  and to the delegate of El Salvador himself, was that =’  no money had been received. The Director -Genergl"  can do a lot of things under the Constitution and Rules,  as a matter of discretion, but he cannot say that he.  has received a cheque when he has not received a  cheque. . ;  If there ‘is évidence emanating from the Govern  concerned that Unesco has received the cheque in:  Paris, that information having reached here, I would -  have no objection to aécépting the delégate's "word for,  it, providing it was official information from his -  Government, - But in the circumstances of not having, |  received any such word, if that be thé case, I cannot  report to you that this payment has been received, |  think we ought to have confirmation about this. If  anyone has an official statement that the cheque has  been handed to Unesco, then I see ho objection to this  Conference's according Peru the right to vote. If we  have no official information that a cheque has been  handed to Unesco, then I am afraid that we would have  to accept the cheque from the delegate of Peru.
(23) The PRESIDENT (Translation); Has anyono any  explanations to give on this difficult point? 1 call  upon the delegate of the Soviet Union.
(24) ‘Mr, “GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Rep  lica) (Translation from the Russian): Mr; President,  fellow delegates; the Administrative Commission.’  decided yesterday that thé existing information was © ’  sufficient to récognize the’ delegation of Peru as being  entitled to vote, - The delegation’ of the Soviet Union is  of the same “opinion.” Shéuld the plenary’ meeting; hov-  ever, on the basis ôf the formal considerations just’  put forward by the Director-General, find some diffi-  culty in endérsing the Administrative Coinmission's  decision which, I repeat, we curselves support, 1  formally proposé that, pending receipt of the confirma  tion referred to by the Director-General, the Peruvian  delegation be accorded thé right to vote, under Article  IV, paragraph 8(c), of the Constitution. €
(25) The PRESIDENT (Translation): Does anyone else  wich to speak? Does anybody support the motion of  the Soviet delegation? ‘It is supported by many delega-  tions, so! will put it to thé vote. ‘  Who is in favour of this proposal to recognize Peiu's  right to vôté under Article IV. C, 8(c) of the Consti- ‘  tution? That is to say, will anybody who wishes to *  give Peru thé right to vote, regardless of the situation,  pléase raise his hand? Anybody against? Nobody : °  against. Abslentions ?  The proposal is adopted by 57 votes in favour, with  two abstentions.  Continuing with the agenda, we are going to discuss  document 9C/13 - Report of the Administrative Com-  mission on draft amendments to the Constitution and  the Rules of Procedure. May I call on the Rapporteur  of the Administrative Commission to introduce this  Report?  DISCUSSION OF THE REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  ON DRAFT AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION AND 1E RULES  OF PROCEDURE OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE
(26) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) (Rapporteur of the   PLENARY  Administrative. Commission) (Translatién from the  French)! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this  is the report drawn up by the Administrative Commis-  sion on item 14, 2 of the agenda, concerning the draft  emendments to Article V; paragraphs 1 and 13, of  the Constitution of Unesco and to Rules 95 and 95A  of the Rules of Procedure of the Général Conference,  proposed by France, Japan and Libéria, It hears the  reference number 9C/13, I would draw the Con-  ference's attention to the fact that, .in the réport; a  paragraph has been left out between paragraphs 2 and 3.  The Administrative Commission at lis meeting on  ÿ November, asked the Legal Conimittee to examine  the draft amendments to the Constitution and to the  Rules of Procedure of the General Conference pro-  posed by France and Japan, together with the amend-  Pent to those amendments proposed by Liberia.  The Administrative Commission âlao asked the  Legal Committee to pronounce on the qubstion whether  the principle adopted by the General Conference -  which, at its eighth session, head been asked to inter-  pret Article V, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, re-  garding the non-re- eligibility of members of the  Executive Board who had served for two congecutive  terms - was also applicable to pérsons elected to  replace members who had resigned or died,  In ite report of 9 November (document 8C/ADM/16)  appended to document 9C/13 (Report of the Adminis-  trative Commission), the Legal Committee stated,  with regard to the latter point, that, after delibera-  tion, it had come to the conclusion that the prepara-  tory discussions indicated that the interpretation of  Article V, paragraph 3, of the Constitution given at  the eighth session of the General Conference was  generally applicable and covered the case at present  under consideration. The Committee took the view  that this interpretation should be confirmed and  maintained,  Many members of the Commission thought that this  question should be examined as a matter of general  principle, without reference to Mr, Massaquoi, for  whom, they stressed, they had the highest respect  and consideration.  The Administrative Commission endorsès the Legal  Committee's éonclusions on this point and recôm-  mends that the General Conference adopt them,  -‘Furthermore, the Administrative Commission,  after considering the Legal Cémmittee's comments  on the draft amendments to Article V of the Constitu-  tion, proposed by France aid Japan, dnd the proposed  amendments to those amendménts submitted by Liberia,  took à vote on the adoption ‘of the abiéndments. On  the draft amendment proposèd by the Gôvernment of  Liberia, there were 18 votes in favoui, 13 against  sd 16 abatentions ; This propdsal'did not obtain the  two-thirds majority required under Rule 81 of the  Rulés of Procedure, ‘and was therefore rejected. The  amendments proposed by France and ïapan were  sdopted unanimously. -  The Commission therefore recommends that the  General Cinfererice adopt these amendments, which  are worded as follows:  Paragraph t (A, Composition): For "twenty-two"  sabetitute "twenty-four".  Paragraph 13 {C. Transitional Provisions): Replace  the whole of this paragraph by the following text:  "At the ninth session of the General Conference,  MEETINGS
149  n-11  thirteen members shall be elected to the Execytive  Board pursuant to the provisions of this Article. One  of them shall retire at the close of the tenth session  of the General Conference, the retiring member being  chosen by the drawing of lots, Thereafter, twelve  members shall be elected at each ordinary session of  the General Conference,"  The Adminirtrativé Commission then expressed its  views on the draft amendments to the Rules of Pro-  cedure submitted following acceptance of the amend-  ment to Article V. It decided, again uranimously, to  recommend that the General Conference adopt the  amendments to Rules 95 and 95A of the Rules of Pro-  cedure of the General Conference, proposed by France  and Japan, and worded as follows:  Rule 95:: Paragraph 1: For "eleven" substitute  "twelve'!,  Rule 95A: Replace the whole of this Rule by the  following text:  "At the ninth session of the General Conference,  thirteen members shall be elected to the Executive  Board pursuant to the provisions of Article V of the  Constitution. One of them shill retire at the close of  the tenth session of the Géne£al Conference, the re-  tiring member being chosen, by the drawing of lots,  Thereafter, twelve mémbera shall be elected at each  ordinary session of thé Genéral Conference."  The Administrative’ Coipmission also examined that  part of item 14,1 of thé: ‘agénda concerning thé pro-  posal submitted by the Executive Board to amend Rule
30 of the Rules of Prôcédure of the General Confe-  rence. This amendwent 15 designed to simplify the  procedure to be followed by the Nominations Committee  in making recomméndations régarding the election of  members of the’ Xéecutive Board, The Administrative  Commission decided by 40 votes to 2, with 4 absten-  tions to récommeénd that the General Conference accept  the proposed amendment submitted by the Executive  Board, which’ consists in replacing Rule 30, paragraph
3, of the Ruled of Proceduré by the following text:  "3, The Nominations Committee shall also éonsider  nominations for vacant seats on the Executive Board,  having regérd to the principles laid down in Article  V.A, 2 of the Constitution. It shall submit to the Con-  ference général observations on the manner in which  that Article should be applied, together with the names  of all the candidates. "
(27) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I thank the Rap-  porteur for this réport and 1 propose a discussion on  it. Does anybody sh to speak? If not, we shall vote  first on the amendments on page 2, paragraph 7, and  we will considér the amendment which requires a two-  thirds majority.  I put to the vote sub-paragraph "A. Composition",  paragraph 1. Will delegates in favour of this change  please raise their cards. Nobody against? Absten-  tions? Unanimously carried by 52 votes.  We will now vote on "C. Transitional Provisions",  paragraph 13, also on page 2. Will delegates in  favour of this plense raise their cards? Delegates  againat? Abstentions ? Again unanimously adopted by
5] votes.  We now come to the Rules of Procedure following  this constitutional amendment. Rules 95 and 95A at  the bottom of page ‘2 and on page 3 of do:ument
9C/13. 1 think we can vote together on these two   I-11 PLENARY  amendments, Will delegates in favour of these  changes please raise their cards? Against? Absten-  tions? Again unanimously carried by 82 votes.  We now vote on the amendment at the bottom of  page 3, "Rule 30, paragraph 3", on the functions of  the Nominations Committee, Will delegates in favour  please raise thelr cards? Delegates sgainet? Abstea-  tions? This hes again been carried unanimously by
52 votes,  I call upon the delegate of Lebanon,
(28) Mr, AMMOUN (Lebanon) (Translation from the  French); Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, I  wish to raise à purely legal point. Does the two-  thirds majority provided for in the Constitution mean  a two-thirds majority of the Statea present or a two-  thirde majority of Member Siates? I think that this  point should be clarified, and it would certainly be  advisable to settle the question for the future. Article  XIII, which provides for amendments to the Conati-  tution, does not mextioa either States present or Mem-  ber States. It would therefore be well to clear up  this point and give a definite ruling on the matter.
(29) The PRESIDENT (Translation): 1 cail upon the  Legal Adviser of the Secretariat.
(30) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) (Translation from the  French): Decisions at plenary meetings are in fact  ‘taken by a majority of the States present and voting.  Rules 80, 81 and 82 of the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference are relevant. Rule 81 states that  "In the following cases a two-thirds majority of the -  Members present and voting is required... (para-  graph (b): Amendments to the Constitution". The  expression "Members present and voting'' ie explained  in Rule 82 which reads as follows: "For the purpèse  of these rules, the phrase 'Members present and  voting' means Members casting an affirmative or  negative vote, Members who abstain from voting sre  considered 'non-voters"".
(31) The PRESIDENT (Translation): Thark you very  much. I think this {s an explanation with which every-  body will be pleased. And now that we see that there  is no case, we will put the Report as a whole before  this Conference. I ask delegates who accept the re-  port, document 9C/13, ns a whole, to raise their  hands if in favour, Delegates against? Abstentions?  The Report has been adopted unanimously by 52 votes.  We can now contimie the general debate.” I call  upon the delegate of Iraq.  GENERAL DISCUSSION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL'S REPORT  AND THE PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1967-1968  (continued)
(33) Mr. KADHIM (Iraq): Mr, President, ladies and  gentlemen, it gives me great pleasure to add my  country's voice to the many others expressing our  gratitude to the Government of India for inviting Unssco  to hold the ninth écssion of its General Conference in  New Delhi. Indin has been a centre of culture through-  out the agen; her past history proves it and now, with  the new ers. of Independence, she is proving it still  further and deserves full credit, I am sorry that the  MEETINGS
180  Iraqi delegation to this Conference has not been able  to be present on account of unavoidable circumstances  though I am still hoping that they will be able to join  in ite deliberations in the near future. -  This Conference has met at a time when the world  is tense with the critical situation it faces today. |  While the wounds of the last world war are still un-  healed, thero is a threat of another world conflict,  as seen from the present situation in the world. Acts  of aggression have been committed in Egypt and |  Hungary and are still being committed in Algeria, ..  A fellow delegate stated yesterday that this country's  past is known for its love of freedom and equality, -  To claim such a past is.a great responsibility, for  only by living up to the ideals of freedom and equality  can that honour be claimed, It is time that some ;  world organization took up the challenge to eliminate  any possibility of future aggression, and I feel that  the United Nations, with its different Agencies deal:  ing with different aspects of world problems, must  accept this challenge to make life worth living in the  present-day world, Unesco, being one of the major  Agencies of the United Nations, can be a great help in  creating such a life for the people of the world and  in building up world opinion to that end, if not for the  present, at least for the future,  . At Unesco meetings, people from different coun-  tries of the world, with different cultures and tradi-  tions, come together and can discuss problems more  freely and with less tension than they could in a  political organization. With modern communications  systema and scientific inventions, this world is more  responsive towards the unification of cultures. Tre-  mendous facilities are available for bringing the _  peoples together through a closer understanding of  each othe>'s cultures and thus helping to eliminate  the prejudices that usually lead to friction and con-  fiicts. Iraq, being at the cross-roads of different -  civilizations, has been, and always will be, ready to  co-operate in realising this alm. 4  There is no doubt that, in this fast-moving age,  the contribution of science has added to the wealth of  knowledge, but at the same time, through this advance:  ment of scientific knowledge, we have found meats of  destroying the world.’ It is therefore a dangerous age  of world History in which we live and, if we have  earned any credit for the good that we have achieved,  we are equally to be blamed for the darker side of  Mfe ‘oday, ; .  The present crisis that we are passing through ia  Wast Asia is not just a local crisis. The whole  world is interested in it and is awaiting a just solution  that will restore peace in that area. Though the , |  Unesco Conference, representing most of the countries  of the world, is not directly responsible for its solu-  tion, it a morally responsible, in finding ways aud.  means of directing all its activities toward achieving  ite object of making this world a happy place to live ia.  X will add a few words about the programme of the  Conference. In 1940 sn Arabic translation section we  established in the Documents and Publications Diviske  of the Bureau of Central Administrative Services to  translate into Arabic documents and publications of  general interest for Unesco programmes, and also fo  revise translations prepared outside the Secretariat.  This service was not given the encouragement needed  for its development and, during the pest few years   PLENARY  since its establishment, it has had its ups and downs  bat mostly its downs, with the result that it has be-  come à service in name only. The Arab countries  are already represented in this Organization by nine  members, namely, Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Libya,  Iraq, Saudi Arabia snd Syria, and Morocco and  Tunisia which have just been admitted at the present  sesvion, while the Sudan has also heen admitted pro-  visionally. The Arabs will thus be represented by  ten countries and we are hoping that some others may  join Unesco.  These ten countries of the Arab world represent  more than 100,000,000 people, nnd they cannot be  . ‘The Constitution of Uresco, in its first two  paragraphs, declares that, ''since wars begin in the  minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the de-  fences of peace must be constructed", That "ignor-  ance of each other's ways and lives has been a com-  mon cause, throughout the history of mankind, of that  suspicion and mistrust between the peoples of the  world through which their differences have all too  often broken into war",  By continuing and rather enlarging this service of  Arabic translation, you will put 100,000,000 people  in direct contact with the healthy side of world thought  and progress. 1 may add that the United Nations itself  is creating a special bureau for Arabic translation.
1 shall now give you a few particulars about the pro-  gress of education in Iraq, In 1820 we started almost  from nothing, but during the last 36 years Iraq has  made tremendcus progress in the field of education.  We now have, altogether, about 2,000 schools with
350, 000 students in primary and secondary schools  ad t 5,500 in colleges, The number may be  [1 but Iraq is a small country with a population of  aly five millions. Schools are open to everybody and  education is free,  ‘In (he coming five-year plan, industrial institutes  for the training of tradesmen and technicians take high  priority in the programme, along with considerable  expansion in primary and secondary educational  establishments, Large industrial schools, including  faily-equipped workshops, are to be constructed in  Baghdad and Kirkuk, These will be in addition to that  at Mosul where work is already well on the way.  Recreation has also been considered under this head-  ing, and a separate vote of £1,250,000 goes to the  œnstruction of swimming pools, laying down of recre-  ation grounds in the various provinces, and a new  stadium for the capital. Co  The Iraqi Government has also allotted £100,000  to help the people to establish their community centres,  snd the sum of another 200, 000 pounds sterling or  Iraqi dinars is suggested in the Ministry's development  budget for the construction of eight central units. It  is hoped also that 64 small units will be completed  before the end of 1956.  Before ending my few words I would like to take this  opportunity of welcoming to this Organization the '  delegates of Morocco and Tunisia who have already  arrived and are present here, and also the delogate  of Nigeria.  I would also like to take thix opportunity of thanking  the Director-General cf Unesco and members of the  Executive Board and the Secretariat for the excellent  work they have done in the past, and of wishing them  ull success in their futurp and greater rndeavours.
(33) The PRESIDENT (Translation); I now call  upon the head of the delegation of Mexico,
(34) Mr, ZAVALA (Mexico) (Translation from the  Spanish); Mr, President, fellow delegates, the  Mexican delegation wishes fo thank India for the  hospitality exiended to its members and for the oppor-  tunity afforded by this Conference to strengthen cul-  tural ties with this part of the world which is so rich  in cultural values,  My delegation would like to make the following  comments on the programme,  The Regional Fundamental Education Centre for  Latin America, the Educational Film Institute, the  “Instituto de Ciencias Aplicadas" (Institute of Applied  Science) and other Unesco projects to which Mexico  has made a special contribution are progressing  satisfactorily. -  The Scientific and Technical Documentation Centre  for Latin America is contimuing its activities under  the patronage of the Mexican Government now that  the period during which it received sipport from  Unesco has ended, thus setting an example of the kind  of co-operation possible between the Organization and  its Member States,  To pass on to mare general topica, we have to  consider what part Latin America can play in the  project on the mutual appreciation of Eastern and  Western cultural values, which is to be one of Unesco's  major projects: We do not see the exact rôle our part  of the world will play in this project, unleas it can be  understood in a very wide sense. Of course, pre-  Columbian America presents special problems, such  as the contacte with European civilization at the time  of its colonization. - K is sufficient to recall the links  between Mexico and the Philippines, which in turn-  had ties with Peru, Brasil, too, maintained contect -  with India and other Eastern countries through Por-  tugal, At the present time, contacts between the in-  dustrialized countries and the areas to be developed  operate rather in a North-South direction than in the  direction mentioned in the programme. In any case,  it is important that the title and substance of the pro-  ject should allow for the participation of Latin America,  with its experience in this field,  After Unesco's main efforts have been concentrated  on the three major projects on fundamental education,  arid sones and East-West cultural exchanges, there  remains a group of independent cultural tasks for  which provision should be made on account of their  intrinsic interest and of the contacts and the moral  support they can gain for Unesco from cultural and  educational circles in various parts of the world. For  example, thé History of the Scientific and Cultural  Development of Mankind, the missions to European  archives, art publications and other similar activities.  The action we would auggest in this connexion is that  the Conference should ensure that by the end of this  session the Department of Cultural Activities will  have the support it needs to carry out those projects.
(35) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call upon the  delegate of the Sudan.
(36) Mr. RAHMTALLA ABDULLA (Sudan); Mr,  President, fellow delegates, on behalf of the leader  of the Sudan delegation who, for obvious reasons,
1-11 PLENARY  could not make his way here in time for the opening  of the Conference, I should like to express my appre-  clation of the efforts put forth by the Indian Govern-  ment to make this Conference not only comfortable  but also a reaiity, .  May 1 also take this opportunity, on behalf of the  Sudan Government, ‘to express my gratitude to the  Unesco authorities for affording the Sudan delegation  the opportunity to attend this Conference as an  Associate Member until such time aq our application  for membership of the United Nations is sanctioned.  We are looking forward to enjoying full membership  of this Organization in the next few days. .  We are again grateful to Unesco for responding  favourably to our request to join some of its organs,  the services of which we have been enjoying for some  time,  The Sudan, a country of one million square miles,  has a population of twelve millions, the majority of  whom depend on an agrarian economy, Hence the  development of industry becomes more and more  urgent and necessary in order to supplement the agra-  rian economy, The Sudan Government has already  announced and adopted a policy of social welfare, not  because it is the fashion nowadays, but because public  opinion wishes it to bé so,  With the limited revenue of an agrarian country, the  Sudan Government sinks quite an appreciable slice of  ita revenue in furthering agricultural development,  health services and, to a large extent, education ser-  vices. These services are essentially the Govern-  ment's responsibility but, in the educational sphere,  public voluntary bodies have been playing an important  rôle in promoting education. The country is therefore  able to secure educational facilities at all levels from  elementary to university education.  With such préoccupation with the education of the  younger generation, little time and effort can be  spared for adults and, except for certain areas of the  country, adult education leaves much to be desired.  It te important that such a large section of the popula-  tion should be equipped in such a way that it is en-  lightened enough not only to appreciate the new pro-  gress but also to be able to contribute intelligently  to it. It is appropriate, perhaps, to emphasize that  adult education does not merely mean literacy, nor  does it mean abstract instruction in civics. The first  may be forgotten without a proper follow-up, and it is  not an end in itself; the latter is likely to produce the  demagogue, Thus adult education may defeat its end  in this way. In my view, adult education should aim  at fostering knowledge through doing; that is, it  should be practical and positive, In this respect, it  is the duty of Unesco, with its limited resources in  material and manpower, to concentrate on training the  local leaders along these lines so that they may be able  to pass this experience to the bottom of the pyramid.  The services of Unesco in setting practical examples  and creating imagination in adult education as well as  in all other fields along the stated lines are warmly  welcomed by my country,  Holding these views, coupled with a strong belief  in the principles and ideals of Unesco - the ideals of  human understanding and co-operation - the Sudan is  most anxious to be admitted to the family of the United  Nations shortly.  It is superfluous and axiomatic to assert that  MEETINGS
152  underatanding and co-operation can prevail only when  we are resolyed to respect each other, I hope it will  not be considered politica (yet I cannot see how any,  human topics can be entirely shorn of the political |  touch) if I say that the atmosphere of human under,  standing, co-operation and respect looked as if ft |  were going to Le overshadowed by naked and unpre--  cedented aggression as exemplified by. the recent  attack on a peaceful nation - a nation which has = |  decided to enjoy its natural rights with a view to living  and letting others live: nothing more and nothing less,  It was evident beyond doubt tha{ Egypt was only the  first victim, _ To all intents and purposes, and had if  not been for the stand of international public opinion,  the tentacles of the octopus would eventually have  extended to the other peaceful nations which consti.  tute the Arab League, Thus peace and order, liberty,  fraternity and equality; so much exalted in public  speeches, would have been rendered void and mean-  ingless political terms,  It is, however, gratifying that Egypt has met the  blow with bravery and fortitude, Nonetheless, the  event is significant for its moral, It is significant,  in the firat place, because it has proved beyond doubt  that once a nation has resolved to be free there {8 no  power on earth that can niilitarily keep it permanently  under political domination. In the second place, it:  has become evident that aggression begets aggression  and that a emall war may lead to the destruction of  human civilization with all its educational, scientific  and cultural components, We must be thankful that-  the event has provided these two important morals, -  It is indeed comforting and reassuring that, after  ajl, the international conscience has not sunk into a  fathomless bottom; and it is a blessing also that it .  has asse: ted itself in time to check aggression amd:  preserve peace. Moreover, we all feel strongly, !  am sure, that such aggressive action is contrary to  the philosophy of this respectable Organization, and  that Unesco's endeavours through the last ten years  have not been completely annihilated, It is only now  that we are certain that Unesco is assured of proceed:  ing uninterruptedly towards its noble end.
(37) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call upon the  head of the delegation of Peru.
(38) Mr. JOCHAMOWITZ (Peru) (Translation from-  the Spanish): Mr. President, gentlemen, it ls a high  honour for me to réprèsent my éountry at this ninth  session of the General Conference, and my. first .  words must be to thank the great and noble country  which is offering us such magnificent hospitality. +.  As I'entered this hall a few days ago, I was immed  iately struck by its admirable proportions, its com-  fort and convenience, its excellent acoustics and its  architectural beauty. Indeed I hope that the plenary’  meeting hall now being built at Unesco's Headquarters  in Paris will have the supreme advantages and the -.  noble proportions of ‘the one we are in. The whole ”  of the vast building specially constructed for Unesco ‘:  by the Government of India deserves our warmest ‘>.  appreciation and will contribute to the efficiency o  our work. :  I do not wish to weary this distinguished gathers  with a long speech; especially as my oratory is not  at all on the plane of the distinguished speakers who   PLENARY MEETINGS  have preceded me. I speak only because I think it  -secessary that this assembly should hear the voice  of Peru, =~ ; :  . 1do not wish to criticize Unesco's work - "La  critique est aisée; mais l'art est difficile", as the  French saying goes, Moreover, criticism is often  heard at our gatherings, What use are our debates  if they are not an exchange of ideas with a view to the  “ improvement of what is being done, the initiation of  new activities or the reduction of others? This ex-  - change of ideas takès place in the Commissions,  whose procedure is extremely democratic and in which  there are neither great nor small, since every vote  hes equal weight and is not cast lightly, for there are  working parties that go deeply into every question  with veal competence in every field, All this should  bé à source of pride to us; we avoid politics as much  ‘as possible, so that feeling runs less high here and a  high standard of debate is always maintained,  Instead of criticizing, therefore, I want to outline  briefly what Unesco has done in my country - most  practical and profitable work, despite the opinion of  those who think that Unesco is a purely bureaucratic  institution and that its conferences are mere contests  in eloquence. What I want to say flatly contradicts  such biased assertions and I believe that every dele-  gate present here can produce similar, or greater,  proof of their falseness.  I have been for aix years a member of Peru's per-  manent delegation to Unesco, and arn therefore able  to judge and appréciate Unésco and iis various Depart-  ments and Services; ‘1 have been in constant touch  with the Secretariat and have always met with the  greatest sympathy and understanding from all, from  thé Director-General and heads of services down to  the humblest secretary or typist. All my Govern-  ment's requesta have been carefully studied and any  refusal has always béén amply justified; in this way,  Peru has benefited by a number of measurés designed  to further the three great aims of Unesco - education,  sclence and culture - that trinity which seems to me  to be based on the three aspects of the spirit, good-  ness, truth and béauty, since to instruct and educate  {s to raise man's standards - that is goodness - and  truth is the undoubted aim of science, while culture  is surely nothing else than the pursuit of beauty in all  its forms, ;  * For the last four years we have had in Peru three  experts in primary education; and we have received  many fellowships whose recipients have gone to dif-  ferent countries to study various specialities. -  Of particular importance to us where the Conferénce  of Ministers of Education of all the American States,  held last April, the Inter:American Conference on  Free and Compulsory Primary Education, and the so-  éalled Hiampani Seminar, at which primary education  Ayllabuses were discussed, Co  ‘1am glad to state that those two Conferences pro-  duced excellent results which will in the near future  lead to appreciable progress, They will rank among  Unesco's greatest successes on the American continent,  "1am also glad to say that all Unesco's stafi at Lima  has expressed appreciation of the Peruvian authorities!  care and of the facilities put at their disposal;  ‘I shail not dwell on the details of Unesco's many  useful activities in the field of public education - the  Organization's main concern.
153     Il-11  As regards science, two most distinguished men;  a physicist and a chemist, are working ir Lima; they  have started laboratories where dozens of students  are receiving valuable sc‘entific training, .  In the field of culture, Unesco's activities have been  more than important, they have been invaluable, In
1950, Cuzco, thé ancient capital of the Incas - one of  the most interesting cities in the world owing to the  wonderful artistic monuments left there by the Inca  and Hispanic cultures - was the victim of an earth--  quake which destroyed a large part of the city and in-  flicted serious damage on the most beautiful of its  historic buildings, ‘Immediately on request, Unesco  sent out 4 mission, led by a world-famous expert in  the reconstruction of historical monuments, which set  to work in Cuzco without delay and, in two months,  drew up an excellent report; this was publishéd by  Unesco in three languages and the Government of Peru  acted upon it, The Government also asked that the  same expert should return to the ancient Inca capital  to see whether his advice had been carried out and  whether he had any other comments to make. : This  expert has just been back and has witnessed the satis-  factory results his advice has produced in the restora-  tion of this legendary capital, How could we fail to  be grateful to Unesco for such co-operation? 1 may  express my thanks for it as a Peruvian, but the entire  world owes the Organization a debt of gratitude for the  preservation of this priceless architectural gem,  Speaking of Cuzco and of Inca culture; a mission {a  to be sent out next year to take colour photographs of  all aspects of that culture with a view to the publication  of an album, similar to the others that Unesco has  already produced, accompanied by a full account of  present knowledge concerning Peruvian archaeology.  This publication will enable the entire world to appre-  clate this ancient and, In many ways, surprising  culture.  An architect specializing in museuris, and a museo-  logist, are at present in Lima to draw up plans for the  National Museum of Fine Arts which is to be built there  next year, Peru will thus have one of the most up-to-  date museums, where the public will be able to see an  uneuspécted wealth of artistic achievements covering  four centuries, . ’ ’  I shall not take up any more of your time by listing  Uneaco's other activities in my country, but there ia  yet much to do'in a land with 80 much promise for the  future. Peru häs great hopes in Unesco and the present  Government of Président Manuel ‘Prado, who began his  term of office last July, is inspired by lofty, humane  ideals: to raise the citizens! cultural lével, to raise  their standard of living, arid to make thérid worthy and  able to live together, not only peacefully but pleasantly,  in accordance with the ideals of Unesco itself.‘  The Peruvian people aré peacé-loving; they want  culture and friendly relations with their neighbours.  They have a dual heritage behind them: that of the in-  digenous race, docile, disciplined,’ contemplative; and  that of the Spanish race, with their religious spirit,  great domestic virtues, unfailing galety, proverbial  chivalry, and their delightful sociability, On arriving  in this beautiful country, which has welcomed us with  so much friendliness and is making our stay so  pleasant,” the evident kindness of all its citizens,  the sweet smiles of the Indian ladies with their in-  nate, unfailing elegance and their graceful saris,   n-11 PLENARY  reminded me of the kindliness of my own people,  who are also lovers of hospitality,  It has been another of Unesco's many achievements  to have brought us here, enabling us to know the  people of India better and to admire its beauty and its  impressive, age-old monuments. Every Unesco Con-  ference is an opportunity to tighten the bonds between  people from distant countries; and this contact be-  tween individuals, between eminent intellectuals - as  all the members of our delegations are - which might  result in a very Towel of Babel, in fact produces the  opposite of confusion and gives us au opportunity to  dovetail our opinions and proposals, to draw old bonds  closer and form new ones; here new sympathies are  aroused, new esteem created and new friendships  formed - never, to my knowledge, has enmity been  stirred up. - ;  After every session of the Unesco Conference, I  have had the feeling - nay, the conviction - that a long  stride had been token towards peace on earth, In  spite of the events which are, at present, casting a  gloom upon the world, it is like a ray of sunshine to  see all the nations gathered here for the sole purpose  of considering what can be done for mankind, to give  it a measure of happiness and, above all, to instil the  certainty that, as long as Unesco exists, there is no  reason to lose hope in a better world.
(38) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call upon the  delegate of Tunisia,
(40) Mr, CHABBI (Tunisia) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, Mr. Director-General,  ladies and gentlemen, I am most grateful to the dele-  gations which have expressed their satisfaction at  Tunisia's admission to membership of Unesco. Once  again I have most sincerely to thank the noble Indian  nation and its Government for the quality of their wel-  . come and for all they bave done to make our work  easier, 004% .  Let me also convey. my Government's congratula-  tions to the Director-General and the Secretariat for  the results achieved as shown in the report on the  Organization's activities. This contimiqus progress  is the pledge of enduring success and gives Unesco a  right to support in the interests of that international  co-operation which is now more than ever necessary.  Even at the risk of embarrassing the Director-General,  I must state that the Government of Tunisia has noted  with great satisfaction the happy innovation, in the  proposed programme and budget, of planning major  projects on a few ‘well-chosen subjects. Those major  projects will receive careful and continuing attention  and only the rate at which they are to be carried out  remains to be determined,  Notwithetanding the burdenu imposed on Tunisia by  its new independence and the substantial financial  sacrifices it has made in the last six months for ur-  gent work in the agricultural, cultural and social  fields, my country is also unreservedly in favour of  the extension of the Farticipation programme.  The sacrifices required of Member States are amply  balanced by the thrilling prospects opened up by the  two by ol projects contained in the programme, whose  choice been recommended by the Executive Board.  The firet, which concerns the extension of primary  education in Latin America, is an experiment of the
154     MEETINGS  greatest interest not only to Tunisia, but to the whole  of North Africa, My country is already grappling wit  this urgent problem, In the six months since we be-’  came independent we have had to face needs of great  urgency with regard to the extension of primary educa-  tion, To date, 640 new classes have been created in  Tunisia since last October, The output of our two  teacher training schools for girls and boys has proved  quite insufficient and it has been necessary to organize  a two-month vacation course to provide intensive pro-  fessional training for 500 students holding the secondary  school-leaving certificate, selected by means of a |  special competitive examination, Moreover, in order  to meet the substantial need for qualified teachers within  the next few years, three primary teacher training  . schools have recently been opened at Sousse, Sfax and  Monastir. At the same time, the extension of sécon-  dary and technical education has necessitated the estab-  lishment - now in progress - of a higher teacher triin-  ing school for secondary teachers.  Tunisia's experience, although on a small gcale,  must be constantly improved in the light of similar  efforts elsewhere, That is why the project for the ez-  tension of primary education in Latin America is of  fundamental interest, since it is an experiment taking  in a number of rather different economies and carried  out with all the safeguards suggested by Uneaco's ex-  tensive experience in the matter.  The second project, concerned with scientific re-  search on arid lands, is no less important from the  point of view of Tunisia. Arid or semi-arid lands  make up almost two-thirds of our country - the south-  ern deserts, the dry central steppes, the salt or  marshy tracts which were once fertile but now laid _  waste by deforestation, intensive cultivation and wind.  Our country therefore illustrates the whole range of  lands made sterile by nature or by man, and offers  opportunity for a variety of experiments on a suffic-  ently limited scale and with sufficient natural possi-.  bilities to guarantee certain success within a very  short time. .  Moreover, on.the social and human plane, population  pressure is such that the need to bring new areas under  cultivation has become a pressing obligation for our  country. The problem of inducing nomads to settle  down has not been overlooked by the Government of |  Tunisia. The country has only recently become mis-  tress of her own destiny, but she has already tackled  the problems of developing arid lands and settling  nomadic groups with courage and resolution in an  effort to solve them as quickly as possible, .  Plans for irrigdtion, the drilling of artesian wells,  the construction of dams, are being studied, and, in  certain regions, work has already started. - Special  research offices ire studying the scientific side of the  question, arid lands are being listed and analysed, re-  afforestation and land reclamation techniques are being  carefully studied so as to avoid the possibility of failure.  Nor is the human problem, on whose solution the execu-  tion of this gigantic undertaking depends, being neg-  lected. Model villages, with primary and technicsl  schools, are planned and some are beginning to spring  up, for it is abundantly clear that the development of  natural resources depends on the mobilization of  manpower and the improvement of the people's culturel  level aad techniques.  Finally, to carry this work to a successful conclusion,   PLENARY  an intensive campaign for the creation of co-operatives  has been launched, The cultivation of the lands thus  reclaimed calls for she pooling of the means of pro-  duction and marketing which, in our view, can be done  successfully only by the co-operative system, on the  economic as well as on the social and human planes,  fn this connexion, I should like to mention the recent  establishment of a centre for economic studies which  will, among other things, train staff for the future  co-operatives,  As you can see, gentlemen, my country is not re-  lying only on outside help; {tis grappling courageously,  though with modest means, with problems that brook  po delay. Far from seeking splendid isolation, how-  ever, we are anxious to exchange information and the  results of our experience with all the countries in-  terested in the reclamation of arid lands, We are  happy, therefore, to find in the tested system of a  large internationsl organization like Unesco the possi-  bility of collaborating with the countries interested in  this great task. We trust that we shall receive from  Unesco all the help needed in this matter. Solutions  are urgently required - a fact I venture to stress. We -  have begun this great undertaking and we need edvice  and technical assistance in order to avoid waste of  effort and set-backs. We are certain that Unesco and  the Member States will give us all the understanding  snd sympethy which a small country with a glamorous  past can inspire when it undertakes the stirring task  of catching up, as quickly as possible, with the ’  caravan of scientifically, economically and technically  more advanced States. .  May I also be allowed to suggest that the area con-  templated for the implementation of the major project  on scientific research on arid lands be extended to  MEETINGS
165  II-11  cover the whole of North Africa, the two countries out  of three (pending Algeria's emergence) which have  recently become independent and entered upon the  international scene? I should like wlso to recommend  that the budget for the pilot projects which will follow  up the proposed scientific research be increased, and  the scope of those projects extended.  Finally, to mention an allied subject, scientific  research on the use of atomic and solar energy -  important factors for the success of arid land develop-  ment - should furnish countries ill-endowed with  power resources with the means to remedy this  deficiency.  Turning to another matter, Tunisia - that melting-  pot of many varied cultures and meeting-place of  civilizations - can but commend the project on the  mutual appreciation of Eastern and Western cultural  values, Intellectuals representative of every family  of the mind ahould multiply their contacts, not with  the curiosity of the ordinary tourist but with ¢. dyna-  mic vision of cultural concepts which transcend the  notions of time and space and offer mankind common  values capable of guiding it in the fulfilment of ita  destiny. ’  In conclusion, considering the enormous field of  action that lisa before Unesco in North Africa,  Tunisia proposes that this Conference might look  favourably on the idea of establishing a Uneaco re-  glonal centre in Tunis. The creation of such a centre,  which would be in line with the oft-repeated desire for  decentralization, would be sure to make Unesco more  efficient and to extend its authority. ‘  The meeting rose at 6 p.m.