IV-5 PROGRAMME  discover what contributions they could make to the -  world, . It would alsç be misleading if Western civi- -  lisation was regarded solely.in terms of scientific and  technical progress; although {t should be stood  that technical progress was deeply rooted in Western  spiritual belief, He also considered that no bilateral  projects should be sponsored by Unesco, as it was  much more important to work with groups of countries.  He noted that 46 per cent of the budget was to be  devoted to the Participation programme and felt that  that marked a trend against concentration of Unesco's  resources which should be avoided, He suggested that  the Secretariat should inform all Member States of all  projects undertaken under that programme, giving  details of funds distributed for any given project and  information on the results achieved.  Q     COMMISSION  In connexion with the question of evaluating Unésco's  achievements, he remarked that s0 far all evaluation  had been done by means of reports from the Director,  General, from the Executive Board and from Member  States. He suggesied that it would be wise to consider  the possibility of critical judgements from independent  sources, He would welcome the views of other dele--  gates on that point.
(8). The CHAIRMAN warned the Commission that ag it  had, through no fault of its own, made a late start with  its work, it might be necessary before long to hold night  meetings,  The meeting rose at 6 p.m.  FIFTH MEETING
15 November 1956, at 10.30 a, m.  Chairman: Mr. BULAJIC (Yugoslavia)  later: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)
(1) Before reopening the general discussion on item
9 of the agenda, the CHAIRMAN said that the New  Zealand delegation wished to ask for an explanation  concerning procedure.
(2) Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand) asked for some clari-  fication in connexion with the purposes and functions  of the working party on major projects. Was it to  consider only the content of the projects, without going  into their budgetary and planning aspects? He sug-  gested that a very brief document setting out the  Executive Board's and the Director-General's views  on the subject would help the Commission.
(3): Mr, BENDER (Netherlands) (Representative of the  Executive Board) said that the Board had only made  suggestions in the matter; the Commission was quite  free to accept or modify them, Before the substance  of the projects waa discussed, it seemed logical to  examine questions of general policy and administrative  problems; to describe them fully; . to determine the  criteria to be followed as well as the methods of rela-  ting the projects to the normal programme, It would  be very useful if the working party would consider the  apparatus necessary to execute the projécts and how  the planning would be done - by the Secretariat or by  another body. Mr. Bender understood that the Secre-  tariat paper suggested by Mr, Beeby would be pre-  pared at once. He stressed that, in the Board's view,  the working party was free to extend the scope of its  work, though it ahould avoid discussing the substance  of the major projecis, which would come before the  Commission itself,
9C/5 and Addenda and Corrigenda) — GENERAL DISCUSSION (continued)
(4) Mr, RAADI (Iran) said that he would confine him-  self to a few remarks on specific projects,  With regard to the report of the Committee on Re-  ports of Member States (document 9C/PRG/2), hé had  noted that the Committee had been unable to study.all  the reports submitted in'detail; he hopéd that the Sec-  retariat would be able to do so asd thereafter to offer  critical and constructive suggestions concerning both  the form and substance of the reports. Furthermore,  he associated himself in advance with any measures’.  the Director-General might decide to take to enable - .  National Commissions to improve their machinery, -  Referring to paragraph 18 of document 9C/PRG/ 2,  Mr. Raadi suggested that Member States be invited to  explain why they had been unable to act on certain reso-  lutions and to indicate the difficulties they encountered  in carrying out certain parts of the programme.  He stressed the importance to Unesco of the work of  National Commissions, but added that, in his opinion,  those bodies could be really helpful only if their . .  activities were directed towards the implementation of  the programme adopted by the General Conference. It  would be desirable, from that point of view, to recom-  mend that the authorities responsible for action at the  national level should always be represented at regional  conferences.  Commenting on the report of the United Nations re--  presentative, Mr. Raadi was glad to note the new frend  towards greater concentration of activities and better   PROGRAMME COMMISBION IV-8  co-ordination between the various United Nations  bodies ;-but asked for additional information about the  discissions which hid led the Economic and Social  Council to pass the resolution appearing in document
9C/8 Corrigendum 1, Introduction; Appendix II. :  - With regard to-the various aspects of the Education  programme, Mr. Raadi's impression was that the  work done by Unesco during the ten years of its exis-  . tence had not been commensurate with the Member  States! enormous needs in that field, In his view the  shoricomings he had observed were not due to the  quality of the Secretariat's efforts, which were most  praiseworthy, but jo the general approach to the prob-  lem which had so far been adopted, He thought that  Unesco's efforts in education should be concentrated,  firstly, on the organization of a world-wide literacy  campaign and, secondly, on an extensive programme  of education for international understanding, Besides  revising the general approach, it would also be neces-  sary to change certain of the methods used, for in-  stance, in connexion with the exchange of persons,  where the polic de in the award of fellowships  had not yet produced the results hoped for.  As his delegation had stated in plenary meeting, the  Iranian Government attached great importance to the  major project on scientific research on arid lands,  and Mr, Raadi hoped that some part of the additional  funds voted by the General Conference might be  allocated to that project.  With regard to thé implementation of the major pro-  ject on mutual appreciation of Eastern and Western  cultural values, Mr. Kaadi recailed that the principles  underlying ihat ‘project had been repeatedly discussed -  particularly by the Executive Board - but needed to be  further clarified and defined before the relevant  regolutions were communicated to Member States, so  that mistakes and misunderstandings might be avoided.  He suggested that ideas on cultural frontiers, geo-  graphy, races, languages, and the very definition of  Orient and Occident, should be clarified at meetings  to be held in preparation for the execution of the  project.  Mr. Raadi also thought that, before a start was  made on the major projects, negotiations would be  necessary with Member States to ensure that they were  prepared to carry out the projects in the best possible  conditions.  Finally, Mr, Raadi hoped that the programme for  mutual understanding and peace which Unesco was to  carry out in the years to comé would lead to the  abolition of distinctions and barriers between the  peoples, races and cultures of the Orient and the  Occident.
(5) Mr. RICHARDS (Liberia) said his country was  , very interested in the East: “West cultural values pro-  ject, He thought a group of experts should be selected  as soon as possible to study a smooth operation of the  project at a minimum cost, He, stressed that the im-  portance of literature for mutual understanding could  not be overestimated, and declared that the key to the  success of the three major projects was concentration  and co-ordination,
(6) Mr. NAVRATIL (Czechoslovakia) had a few  remarks to make concerning the presentation of  the programme.
325     In the first place, he noted that Unesco's pro-  gramme wis presented in the form of rather abatract  and insufficiently detailed resolutions; which was  lable to put off sceptics and to prevent any wide,  spread of Unesco's ideals among the o people.  In order to remedy that unsatisfaciory situation, the  delegation of Czechoslovakia had proposed certain  resolutions, . The one concerning the peacefui uses  of atomic energy (document 9C/DR/ 20) had béen with-  drawn because the Executive Board had made recom-  mendations along the same lines, Another resolution  (document 9C/DR/38), to which he wanted to draw  the Commission's attention, requested the Director-  General to take measures to commemorate the 300th  anniversary of the publication, at Amsterdam in 1657,  of John Amos Comenius' "Opera Didactica Omnia",  Mr, Navratil stressed that such a commemoration  was likely, by directing public attention to one of the  earliest propagators of the ideas on which Unesco  was based, to make an important contribution to the  popularization of Uneaco's ideals, to international  understanding and to the education of young people.
(7) Mr, AMMOUN (Lebanon) thought that the pro-  gramme submitted by the Director-General was  excellant in substance but was not presented in suf-  fictently synthetic form. He hoped that the programme  submitted to the Gerieral Conference at its next ses-  sion would set forth and define more clearly its  guiding principles, théreby helping governments in  their task of implementing it. Mr. Ammoun was  very glad that direct aid to Member States was to be  increased, as it wouid enable them to carry out  certain projects at the nationyl level,  It was regrettable that the general public knew too  little about Unesco, and indeed did not criticize it  enough; Mr, ‘Ammoun feared that the specialized  and esoteric aracter of Unescots work might be  prejudicial to the Organization's future, In that con-  nexion, he welcomed the project for setting up ~  regional centres for the professional training of  journalists, and’ suggested that a few fellowships  should be instituted.’ The major ‘project on mutual  appreciation of Eastern and Western cultural values  was also ‘capable. of arousing the interest. of thé’  general public but - as several delegates had already  pointed out - the concepts of Orient and Occidént  should first be defined, and that was a difficult and  dangerous task. The problem might, however a be  satisfactorily solved ‘by a round-table ‘meeting ‘of  leading thinkers from different parts of the world.  So far as thé actual {implementation of the major  project was concéfnéd, Mr. Ammoun proposed thé  creation of servicés for documentation, research,  diffusion and exhibitions, but stressed the dangers  of dissipation of effort, Art provided an excellent  meeting ground to r the various &iltures and a parti-  culerly favourably one for international uiiderstand-  ing. The study of Oriental lañgua 8 by \ Westerners  and of Occidental ones by people from the East waa  also likely to promote the desired closer ties.  Even though It had been said that mutual apprecla-  tion of Orient and Occident already existed on the  empirical plane, the execution of the major project  could be expected to do much to produce the néces-  sary psychological impact and make a reality of  international understanding.   IV-8 PROGRAMME
(6) Mr, BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) reminded the Com-  mission that the General Conference, at its fifth ses-  sion, had adopted à resolution (sponsored by three  librarians, Messrs, L, Evans, J, Cain and P,  Bourgeois) authorizing Unesco to take certain action  in the field of libraries; bibliography and documenta-  tion, That decision had led to à number of very  important studies but it was necessary once more to  lay stress on the rôle of bibliography in all scientific  and cultural activities, and Mr, Bourgeois had noted  with regret that the corrigendum to the proposed pro-  gramme and budget mentioned the deletion of a sum  of $14, 780 originally provided to meet the cost of  publishing an international bibliography of socio-  cultural anthropology, Certain rearrangements with-  in the libraries service gave Mr, Bourgeois cause to  fear that Unesco might be losing interest in the all-  important question of bibliography.  He thought that some of the draft resolutions put  forward by governments were excellent but did not  take into account the part which thé competent inter-  national non-governmental organizations could and  should play, The implementation of the resolutions  contained in documents 9C/DR/1 and 14, for instance,  fell within the competence of the International Federa-  tion of Library Associations which had already done  much work, in particular, on the question of micro-  film reproductions of articlés and publications, using  part of the subventions received from Unesco for the  purpose. The Federation had 57 members, drawn  from 35 countries, and offered all the necessary  guarantees, i  Mr. Bourgeois indicated that, at the suggestion of  Professor Laugier, a working party had undertaken  far-reaching studies which should lead to a complete  reform of the system of scientific information. The  results, of those studies, for which a subvention of  $800 had been granted, would be published in due  course.  In conclusion, Mr, Bourgeois asked that the pro-  posals concerning libraries and bibliography, con-  tained in the unamended version of document 9C/6,  be kept unchanged, and asked delegations to support  the cause of books, documentation and bibliography  by presenting suitable resolutions to the General Con-  ference at its future session.
(8) Mr. AZIMOV (Union’ of Soviet Socialist Republics)  said the Soviet delegation was gratified to ‘note that  Unesco's activities were being concentrated on the  three major projects, although it agreed with the dele-  gates who thought that the _ Organization's programme  of general activities should not suffer thereby, The  increase in the funds allocated to the major projects  and to other special activities met a unanimous desire.  Those projects had been carefully studied and had ex-  cellent ideas behind them, but the budgetary limita-  tions imposed on them might diminish their results.  It was to be hoped that the projects would be very  successful, and increasingly so as time passed, and  that they would serve not only to raise the cultural  level of the peoples concerned, and the standard of  living in the arid zones, but also to promote the  growth of mutual understanding and to foster the cause  of peace. Mr. Asimov did not think it right to fix  priorities as between those projects. The one on  mutual appreciation of Eastern and Western cultural
326     COMMISSION  values was of great.interest to Member States,  Unesco's action should tend to strengthen understand-  ing among the nations, to contribute to mankind's  well-being by guaranteeing peace, and to develop  scientific knowledge for the benefit of all peoples.  Mr, Azimov paid tribute to the common desire of  Member States to devote all their activities to that  noble cause, and stated that his delegation thought it  well to refrain from making certain declarations, and  from the use of the resources of culture for prope-  ganda purposes or for recourse to force in relations  between States, It was important to emphasize the  need for doing away with certain activities which  might stir up distrust among the peoples and for  preventing the development of antagonisms that were  counter to the ideas of Unesco; the prestige and  authority of the Organization could only be enhanced  thereby.  The programme provided for more assistance to  underdeveloped countries, and Latin America would,  in the years to come, receive a considerable amount  of aid. Mr, Azimov was glad of it but thought it  important to remember the Asian and African coun-  tries, whose needs were great. If Unesco achieved  satisfactory results in the next two years, and if it  made good use of the experience gained, it would be  possible to submit proposals for practical assistance  to Asia and Africa to the General Conference at its  tenth session.  When considering the programme, Mr. Azimov  could not help wondering what stage the various  activities had reached, or in other words what had  actually been done in practice. It was quite obvious  that progress had been made but, in his opinion, it  would be well if the next programme gave Member  States information sbout the fundamental problems  that faced Unesco, and about its activities, so that  the programme could be revised and the obstacles  which hampered progress towards the Organization's  objectives removed, Past errors could be corrected;  and that was the task of the Executive Board. The  Soviet Union was ready to perform its share of all  Unesco activities.  (Mrs. Myrdal (Sweden) took the Chair.)
(10) Mr. HLA (Burma) said that, in the East-West  cultural values project, some of the notions were  necessarily vague, One aspect which seemed to him  . of paramount importance was the teaching’ of history  in schools and colleges. It consisted mainly in  boasting about one's country's achievements and  playing down its mistakes. Real misunderstandings  were created by fanciful descriptions of such events  as Alexander's short visit to India and the "great  march" of Genghis Khan's hosts; French and British  history books were not immune from misrepresenting  history. It was a great mistake for textbooks to  belittle and humiliate "foreigners". It was charac-  teristic that, while many British scientific textbooks  had been retained in India, history books had had to  be replaced on account of the elements of misunder-  standing which they contained. Mr. Hla was sure  that Unesco could play a decisive and effective part  in promoting more objectivity in the teaching of history.
(11) Mr, MARSABAN (Indonesia) expressed his   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  gratification at the increase in Unesco's budget for  the intensification of the major projects; the East-  West cultural values project should play a large part  in education, He referred to the previous day's com-  munication of the United Nations representative, with  particular approval for the shaping of children's  minds {in an atmosphere of truth; assured the Com-  mission of his country's true desire to co-operate in  all three major projects; and stressed that many  countries were atill in great need of many educational  facilities.
(12) Mr. BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia), speaking of  the first major project, agreed with the Soviet dele-  gate that a project of such importance would serve as  s model for other regions in which there were large  mmbers of illiterates and where part of the achool-  age population could not enjoy the benefits of education,  He knew that all the Latin American delegations were  grateful for the project and recalled that the Lima  Conference of Ministers of Education had approved it  and had suggested improvements, some of which the  Secretariat had later taken into account. Hi'des-  cribed sorne of the basic ideas discussed by that Con-  ference - among others, that if Unesco's work were  not sufficiently well known and appreciated, or put to  good use, the fault laÿ with those who were respon-  sible for education and culture. In some Latin  American countries, it had not been possible to enlist  the help of other circles, and the Ministers had there-  fore emphasized that the cultural and social life of a  country was the foundation of nationhood. However,  cultural and social developments required funds,  Education was the best economic investment, but, as  long as other circles able to provide money were not  convinced, funds would not be forthcoming, Experts  gave advice which could not be put into practice owing  to lack of resources, and their reports remained a  dead letter, It would aleo be of interest if educationists  could show how much the deficiencies of education cost.  In Mr, Betancur Mejia's own country, every million  children who did not attend school represented, after
30 years, a loss to the national economy of 30,000  million Colombian pesos. Actual figures of that kind  should induce people with money to finance education.  Many people thought that the material progress of a  country was measured only in terms of kilowatts,  miles of highway, etc. ; and quite forgot about educa-  tion, although it was proved that the lack of it was a  serious handicap to a country's economic develop-  ment. Those were the fundamental ideas expounded  at the Lima Conference and, for the above reasons, .  the delegation of Colombia would support th project.  In education, it was necessary to make use of the  planning techniques utilized in other spheres and not  to confine attention to primary education, but to deal  with every level of schooling, Modern methods of  public administration should also be applied to  education.  In some countries, there vas no relationship between  the increase of the population and the funds allocated  to education. Steps should be taken to remedy that  discrepancy. In Colombia, 25 per cent of every  increase in a municipal or departmental budget was  allocated to education. The Lima Conference had  recognized that Unesco could not contribute large sums  to the solution of educational problems, but
327  Iv-5  consideration had béen given to the idea of using funds  from other sources, and the International Bank for  Reconstruction and Devélopment had accordingly been  asked to invest capital in edicational institutions, such  as schools and universities, and in their endowment,  Mr, Betancur Mejia suggested that it would be well to  authorize the Director-General to select a country and  carry out an experiment, under the major project,  with the object of solving, in the next two years, all  the problems connected with primary education, The  results achieved could then be assessed,  Mr. Betancur Mejia was in favour of the proposal to  hold a seminar, sponsored by the Organization of  American States, on the comprehensive planning of  education. He thought Upesco should provide assis-  tance, since the absence of uniformity in earlier pro-  jects had been largely due to the lack of overall  planning. Both objectives and methods were unco-  ordinated not only in Unesco, but also in many coun-  tries, ard it was necessary to evaluate the results  achieved so far. The extra $1,000,000 voted by the  Conference should not be frittered away on minor  activities, but allocated to the major projécts, Unesco's  aims were on such a scale that $23,000,000 was not a  large sum; better results would, however, make it  possible to ask for larger allocations. He agreed with  the delegate of Israel that the hundreds of thousands  of teachers throughout the world should be the cham-  pions of Unesco's ideals, The Organization should use  the most modern methods of communication to con-  vince everyone that only through education could the  nations make progress, the inequalities resulting from  illiteracy be removed, and the general public enabled  to enjoy the benefits of science and culture. When  Unesco had ingtilled those principles into the minds  of all men, the ideals of peace and understanding would  also be implanted.
(13) Mr. LYNKOV (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Repr>iic) thought that Unesco's fundamental task in
1957 and 1958 would be to promote international co-  operation s0 as to increase mutual understanding among  the nations, strengthen peace, and raise the standard  of living of all peoples.  The projects for the elimination of illiteracy through-  out the world were of particular importance. Unesco  should make special efforts to help countries which had  recently emerged from colonial dependence to bring  their own culture back to life. Unesco's aid to the  underdeveloped countries should not be influenced by  political considerations.  Mr. Lynkov welcomed the project on the extension  of primary education in Latin America, but remarked  that the same problems were encountered in Eastern  countries. The Byeloruasian Soviet Socialist Republic  had already helped in the execution of the Expanded  Programme of Technical Assistance and was ready to  give further help to the underdeveloped countries.  With regard to Unesco's activities in the natural  sciences, Mr, Lynkov mentioned the importance of  the peaceful utilization of atomic energy, Unesco  should promote the development of all forms of interna-  tional co-operation, on a footing of equality, to ensure  that atomic energy was used to raise the peoples’ stan-  dard of living, but he regretted that the results achieved
80 far were not very productive.  His delegation was in favour of the projects designed   IV-6  to encourage international u:derstanding in the social  sciences, but regretted the budgetary cuts proposed  in that chapter because, despite Unesco's efforts in  the past few years to establish contacts and bring  about exchanges, it was clear that many possibilities  of action had not been developed as they should have  been.  In conclusion, Mr, Lynkov said that Unesco needed  the support of all Member States in executing the  tasks laid down in the Constitution, added that he  would make practical proposals to that end during the  detailed discussion of the programme.
(14) Mr, KAUL (International Labour. Organisation)  stated that, in a series’ of undertakings appearing in  the draft programme for 1957-1958, ILO and Unesco  were pooling their resources ‘and efforts for common  ends, He was anxious to inform the Commission of  the situation with regard to "neighbouring rights": at  a meeting held in Berne on 15 October, the Director-  General of ILO and the Director of the Berne group  had agreed on a joint approach to that important  question, He drew attention to document 9C/ PRG/6,  paragraphs 16 and 21, which siated that Unesco, ILO  and the Berne organization had agreed on the pro-  cedure to be followed in their approach to governments.  Certain small divergencies still existed, but an Inter-  national convention would be framed; the Governing  Body of ILO was considering its draft and would com-  municate it to Unesco's Director-General in the near  future.
(15) The CHAIRMAN informed the Commission that  the list of speakers in the general debate was now  exhausted, but that four representatives of non-  governmental organizations had asked to make state-  ments. Before calling upon them, however, she pro-  posed to call on the delegate of Mexico wha had just  arrived, having been delayed.  speaking of the (16) Mr. ZAVALA (Mexico),    PROGRAMME COOMMIBSION  philosophical and ideological basis on which Uneaco's  activities appeared to reat. considered that, at the .  moment, all the Organization's work was directed .  towards practical action and, far. from being purely.  academic, was designed to lead to a practical, con- .  centrated programme of governmental action, A study  of the programme showed that there had been a reduc:  tion in the activities of the Department of Cultural  Activities but there were, on the other hand, new and  very useful actiyities in that same Department. Re-  ferring to the major project on mutual appreciation  of Eastern and Western cultural values, he remarked  that the title seemed to relate to two specific regions  of the world and should be expanded to cover other  regions, such as Latin America. He thought that the  title should be interpreted not in a purely geographical  but in a wider sense.
(17) The CHAIRMAN sald the General Committee had  held a very lorig meeting that morning and had taken  two decisions of particular interest to the Commis-  sion: it had approved the new tirmé-limit for the  presentation of proposals in’ relation to the major pro-  jects, and, as there seémed to he some doubt about  it, she had verified that the limit was 16 November  in the evening. Secondly, on the ‘proposal of the  Administrative Commission, ‘the General Committee  had recommended that the two Commissions hold a  joint meeting some time the following wéek to discuss  the planning of the 1959-1960 programme, the "Courier"  publications and the coupon scheme. The agenda of  that meeting would be circulated later. In the course  of the afternoon meeting, the Commission would take  action on the recommendations of the Committee on  Reports of Member States and hear the Director-  General's observations on the points which had been  raised in the general debate. The Commission would  then take up item 10 of the agenda - Technical  Assistance,  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  SIXTH MEETING
16 November 1956, at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)  ITEM 9 OF THE AGENDA : CONSIDERATION OF PART R OF THE  PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1857-1988 (documents
9C/5 and Addenda and Corrigenda) — GENERAL DISCUSSION (continued)
(1) Speaking at the invitation of the Chairman, Mr.  SAMBAMOORTHY, observer for the International  Music Council, said that he was grateful for the oppor-  tunity of making a few suggestions for promoting the  major project on the mutual appreciation of Eastern  and Western cultural values in the field of music.
328     For the appreciation of Eastern muse, ft would be  useful to evolve an international musical notation, which  would enable an accurate reproduction of Oriental music  to be made in Western countries. Each country could  then publish some forty simple melodies, including  folk tunes and simple operatic airs, in that notation.  Those melodies could Le taught to students in other  cc-ntries. Further, an international orchestra could  be formed, containing the characteristic instruments  of different lands. It could be trained to play n :lodic