(43) Mr, MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) suggested that those items contained in the  reports which were not recommended by the Com-  mittee for publication should be annexed to the  analysis of the reports of Member States.
(43) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  agreed that the matters were of too great importance  to be decided in hasta, He supported the French  delegate's view that the summary prepared by the  Secretariat was of value; indeed, his proposal had  gone even further, as he believed that more sum-  maries could be made and some publication of the  original material dispensed with,  As for the problem of timing, he did not think that  insuperable difficulties would arise as, under the  method he had proposed, the Director-General would  in fact be able to take into consideration in his own  report some of the information given in respect of  the previous year, He stressed that the purpose of  his proposals had been to evolve some form of total  reporting without necessarily having a multiplicity  of documents.
(44) The CHAIRMAN noted that the United States  delegates suggestions would be translated and  circulated to all members of the Committee.
(45) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur)  announced that he would submit a draft report to the  Committee on Thursday, 22 November.  REPORTS     OF MEMBER STATES X-13
(46) Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) suggested that the 17  members to be responsible for studying the reports  for the new session of the Conference should not be  appointed immediately, but at the beginning of the  next session, as that would allow for greater contin-  uity in the Committee's work, He referreil to the  first meetings held by the Committee at the current  session, from which many delegates were absent and,  among others, those of Latin America. In his opinion,  the Secretariat should draw up an analytical summary  of the reports and, at the next session, the Conference  should appoint the members of the Committee on a  wider bas's, as its membership way at the moment  rather small, He pointed out that consideration  should be given to the fact that only seven or eight of  the 15 members attended meetings, and he believed  that the reason that more delegates did not attend  was that they had to do so as observers, with the  right to speak but not to vote. In conclusion, he said  that an ad hoc committee should be appointed, instead  of following the procedure adopted at the current  session. He therefore considered that the wisest  course would be to appoint the Committee's members  at the following session of the Conference.
(47) The CHAIRMAN said that he would postpone  discussion on that new point till the following  meeting,  The meeting rose at 5.55 p.m.  THIRTEENTH MEETING
22 November 1956, at 3,30 p.m,  Chairman: Mr. ZEISSL (Austria)  CONSIDERATION OF THE COMMITTEE'S DRAFT REPORT — PARTS  IV and V (document 9C/REP/PROV/T)
(1) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) asked  for the comments of the members of the Committee  on the various paragraphs of the draft report  contained in document 9C/REP/PROV/7. He added  that he himself intended to propose amendments to  certain paragraphs.  Part IV  Paragraph 1
(2) Paragraph 1 waa approved without discussion.  Paragraph 2
(3) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) and  Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-General)    proposed that the paragraph be amended to read as  follows: "After careful consideration of these  proposals and of certain further suggestions, the  Committee, at its meeting on 32 November, agreed  on the following draft recommendation".
(4) The proposal was approved.  Paragraph 3
(5) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) proposed  that the last phrase be expanded to read as follows:  "an assessment of the Organization's work during  the period under review".
(6) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  remarked that what was wanted was an evaluation of  the work of the Organization. As any evaluation was  based on failures as well as successes, the reports  on the activities of the Organization should include   X-13  information about failures, He suggested that the  wording of parsgraph 3 of the document should make  that quite clear.
(7) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur). SAW no  objection to introducing into the resolution à sentence  that would meet Mr, McCullough's wishes. He  pointed out, however, that the {dea expressed by the  latter was already included in that part of the draft  report in which the text of the resolution was dis-  cussed, as paragraph 12 stated that "the Committee  would like Member States, not only to give a faithful  picture of the activities undertaken by them within  the framework of the plan proposed, but also to  express an opinion on their achievements, their  methods of action and the reasons for possible  failures".
(8) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  appreciated the fact that Member States were invited  to comment on their difficulties, His point was,  however, that one of the tasks of the future Commit-  tee on Reports would be to evaluate the work of the  Organization, and, in making its evaluation, it would  have to consider both the reports coming from  Member Stites and that of the Director-General.  Self-appraisal by Member States was not sufficient  as a basis for making an evaluation; it would also be  necessary to assess the work carried out by the  Secretariat. For that reason, he thought that the  Director-General's report should include his assess-  ment of failures. The question was really whether  the Committee wished to recognize, in paragraph 3,  that one of the functions of the future Committee  would be to evaluate the work of the Organization.
(9) Mr, MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) explained that the reports referred to at the  beginning of paragraph 3 comprised those of the  Director-General in addition to those of Member  States.
(10) After a short discussion, it was decided to  amend the last line of paragraph 3 to read as follows:  "an assessment of the Organization's work during  the period under review".
(11) Paragraph 3, as amended, was approved.  Paragraph 4
(12) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur),  replying to a question from Mr, UNAKOV (Union of  Soviet Sccialist Republics), explained that the object  of the paragraph was to ensure better co-ordination  between the reports of Member States and those in  which the Director-General periodically reviewed  the activities of the Organization. It did not in any  way refer to the analytical study of the reports of  Member States by the Secretariat.
(13) Paragraph 4 was approved.  Paragraph 5
(14) Mr. UNAKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) thought that paragraph 5 gave too narrow  COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER
8TATES  a definition of the information which Member States  were asked to supply. It was, after all, quite  possible that some States belonging to the Organiza-  tion could supply very valuable information on other  questions not mentioned in that paragraph.
(15) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur), while  he quite understood the Soviet delegate's idea, pointed  out that, if the reports of Member States were to be  easily analysed and compared, they should all follow  the same plan. Moreover, paragraph 5 (a), which  invited Member States to furnish information on''the  main features of their collaboration with Unesco",  gave them an opportunity of including & wide variety  of information in their reports.
(16) Mr, McCULLOUGH (United States of America),  while appreciating the views of the delegate of the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, recalled that the  intention of the General Conference was to iimit the  information coming fram Member States to that  having a direct bearing on the work of the Nrganiza-  tion. There was no reason against broadening the  reports to include other headings, as long as they  applied to all countries,
(17) Mr, UNAKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) explained that he had no objection to  Member States being asked to follow certain general  directives in drawing up their reports. He thought it  desirable, however, that paragraph 5 should allow  slightly more latitude. The list of subjects given in  that paragraph should not be exclusive, and it should  be stated that Member States were invited to supply  information, where possible, on other important  questions as well,
(18) To meet the wishes of the delegate of the Union  of Soviet Socialist Republics, the Committee decided  to reword the first line of paragraph 5 as follows:  "Invites Member States to furnish primarily, and as  far as possible, information on:",
(19) On the Rapporteur's proposal, it wes also  decided to amend paragraph 5 (c) by replicing the  words "together with an account of the activities .  by "together with an account of the principal  activities",
(20) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) then proposed the following emendments:  To substitute the following for paragraph 5 (d):  "the measures taken to associate more clodiely in  Unesco's activities ail other appropriate bedies,  institutions or associations".  To substitute, for sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph
5 (e), the following phrase: ‘to comply with the  resolutions of the General Conference inviting action  by Member States".  To delete the words in parentheses from paragraph
(21) The proposed amendments were approved.
(22) Replying to Mr. UNAKOV (Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics), Mr. BRUNSVICK (France)  (Rapporteur) explained that the resolutions referred   COMMITTEE ON REPORTS  to in paragraph 5 (e), sub-paragraph (ili), were those  for which the Director-General had been invited, as  was stated in paragraph 14 of document 8C/PRG/2,  to suggest "certain distinctive methods which could  be applied in certain categories of countries.
(23) On the Rapporteur's proposal, it was then  decided to reword sub-paragraph (iii) as follows:  "to contribute to the implementation of resolutions  which the General Conference, on the recommenda-  tion of the Programme Commission, has informed the  Director-General should be the subject of a work plan  for Member States".  Paragraph 6
(24) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur)  proposed the following amendments:  To delete sub-paragraph (d) from paragraph 6 and  insert it in one of the following paragraphs.  To follow sub-paragraph (a) by two sub-paragraphs  (b) and (c), resulting from the splitting into two of  the existing sub-paragraph (c).  To place the existing sub-paragraph (b) at the end  of the paragraph, as sub-paragraph (d).
(26) In consideration of suggestions made by  Mr, McCULLOUGH (United States of America) and  Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General), it was finally decided to adopt the following  wording for paragraph 6:  "Authorizes the Director-General:  (a) To consider, in agreement with the Executive  Board, the best ways of making his own reports and  those of Member States comparable as regards form  and content; '  (b) To prepare a summary of the reports of  Member States;  (c) To submit to the General Conference an ass-  essment of the work accomplished by the Organiza-  tion, based both on the reports of Member States and  on his own reports;  (d) To arrange for the volume containing the  reports which reach the Secretariat within the time-  limits set by the Executive Board to be made avail-  able to members of the Committee one month prior  to the opening of the General Conference,"
(26) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  asked whether the assessment referred to in the new  sub-paragraph (c) could not be included in the  Director-General's report on the activities of the  Organization.
(27) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) considered that suggestion worthy of study.  But in view of the practical difficulties, due to the  time required for printing, which would probably  arise, he would prefer it not to be embodied in a  resolution which was to be submitted for the approval  of the General Conference. In any event, the Secre-  tariat would try to act on the suggestion.  Paragraph 7
(28) On the proposal of Mr. MAHEU  (Representative of the Director-General), it
763  OF MEMBER STATES x-13  was decided to amend the paragraph as follows:  "Decides that this Committee, or a new Committee  on Reports, shall meet six days prior to the opening  of the tenth session of the General Conference, so  that its observations and recommendations may be  submitted to the Programme Commission ear  enough for them to be taken into consideration".  Paragraph 8
(29) On the proposal of Mr. BRUNSVICK (France)  (Rapporteur), it was decided to insert the following  introductory sentence at the beginning of the  paragraph: "The Committeé also drew up the  following directives for the preparation and  publication of the reports".
(30) Mr. UNAKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) wondered whether the paragraph was not  a repetition of paragraph 5, which had been examined  earlier.
(31) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) pointed  out to Mr. Unakov that paragraphs 8 to 16 contained  the Committee's comments on the draft resolution  set forth in the preceding paragraphs, As a resolu-  tion had of necessity to be concise, it might be  considered advisable to introduce certain additional  remarks into the comments on such a draft.
(32) On the proposal of Mr, UNAKOV (Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics), it was then decided to  state that the reports referred to in paragraph 8  were those of the Member States.  {33) Mr. AYE (Union of Burma), attending as an  observer, asked whether Member States should not  be requested to include in their reports information  about the composition of their National Commissions.
(34) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) pointed out that, at its eighth session, the  General Conference had instructed the Secretariat  to prepare two publications on National Commissions.  One of them - the Guide for National Commissions -  had already come out, and the other - the Handbook  of National Commissions - was to be published in the  near future. Mr. Aye would be able to find the  information to which he had referred in those  publications.  Paragraphs 9 to 13
(35) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) said that paragraph 0 was based on a  proposal made by Mr. McCullough. For his part,  he was prepared to accept that proposal except as  regarded the omission from the printed volume of  the section of the reports drawn up in compliance  with sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph 5 (e). In his  view, if Member States were aware that the informa-  tion they were invited to supply in accordance with  that sub-paragraph would not be printed, they might  quite possibly be tempted not to make any effort to  supply it. He therefore asked Mr. McCullough  whether he would be prepared to agree to the deletion  of the words in parentheses from paragraph 9.   X-13
(36) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  had no strong feelings on the subject and was prepared  to agree to the suggestion, He pointed out, however,  that the reports were already voluminous, although  they did not contain complete information abou’ ‘Wl  the activities of Member States; and that some (f  the material they contained would be duplicated  elsewhere in different form,
(37) After a short discussion, it waa decided that the  words in parentheses in paragraph 9 should be  deleted.
(38) It was also decided that, in paragraph 13, the  words Lao pages" should be substituted for "15 or 20  pages".
(39) On the proposal of Mr. MAHEU (Representative  of the Director-General), it was decided to rearrange  the paragraphs as follows:  Paragraph 8 would be immediately followed by  paragraphs 12 and 13, which would thus become  paragraphs 9 and 10,  Then would follow the existing paragraph 9,  renumbered 11, Finally the new paragraph 11 would  be followed by a paragraph 12 containing the idea  expressed in the existing paragraph 6 (d).  ‘The existing paragraphs 10 and 11 would be deleted.
(40) Mr, UNAKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) agreed that it would be advisable to invite  Mamber States to include in their reports information  on difficulties they had encountered, measures which  might be taken in future to solve those difficulties,  and proposals for improving the work of the Organi-  zation, He proposed that a few words to that effect  be added to paragraph 12,
(41) Mr; BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur)  proposed that the following addition be made to  paragraph 12: ".,. the difficulties they have  encountered, and to make suggestions as to how their  participation in Unesco's activities could be  improved and the effectiveness of the Organization  therèby increased".
(42) The proposal was approved.  Part V  Paragraphs 14 to 16
(43) Following suggestions from Mr. BRUNSYICK  (France) (Rapporteur) and Mr. MAHEU (Representa-  tive of the Director-General), it was decided that  section V of the draft report should be recast as  follows:  The section would begin with the following sentence:  "The Committee submits the following draft resolution  to the General Conference for adoption:"  Paragraph 14 would be deleted.  In the third line of paragraph 15, the words "in  general" would be deleted and the words “in the  document mentioned above" would be replaced by the  words "in document 8C/7 Annex II".
(44) Mr. UNAKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  .
754     COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES  Republics) proposed that, in paragraph 15, the words:  "Decides to dissolve the Committee on Reports of  Member States and to replace it by a Committee on  Reports ,.." be chaliged to: "Decides to replace  the Committee on Reports of Member States by a  Committee on Reports ..."
(45) That proposal was adopted,  Discussion on the draft report as a whole
(46) Mr. RONDUEN (Philippines), attending as an  observer, auggested that statistical data in the form  of charts, graphs, etc, , might be included in the  reports of Member States, to make them more  interesting and to give a visual picture of the acti-  vities of Member States. He realized that his  suggestion might be unacceptable on account of the  work involved, and because the reports would then  become even more voluminous, but, if such charts  and graphs were attached as annexes, he  thought they would be of great jaterest to  Member States.
(47) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States 5 ot Amez!ça)  considered the suggestion interesting. He was  certain that both the Secretariat and Member Statea  would like to have a better idea of what National  Commissions were doing, of the relationships  between the Secretariat and National Commissions,  and of the relationships between the National  Commissions themselves; and hoped that sufficient  funds would be available to carry out a survey of that  type. He could not, however, visualize how annexes  could be included in the reports, and doubted whether  they would have any comparative value.
(48) The CHAIRMAN did not consider that the  addition of visual aids would alter the content of the  reports, and suggested leaving the matter to the  Secretariat for decision.
(49) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  said that, as Member States were required, under  the provisions of the Constitution, to report on their  laws, regulations etc, , relating to educational,  scientific and cultural life, there would have to be a  section in their reports dealing with that matter,  He suggested that a Part V should be added for that  purpose. For the sake of greater ptecision, he  proposed that à sub-paragraph (g) be added to  paragraph § to refer to those laws and regulations,  and that paragraph 8 be altered to include a reference  toaPartV.
(50) The Committee expressed its willingness to  accept Mr. McCullough's suggestions concerning  paragraphs 5 and 8.
(51) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) considered that it would be better to insert  the new sub-paragraph between the existing sub-  paragraphs (a) and (b) of paragraph 5.
(52) With the amendment suggested by Mr. Maheu,  Mr. McCullough's proposal regarding paragraphs
5 and 8 was approved.   COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER
(53) Mr, McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  suggested that, after the agreed amendments had been  made to the text of the Committee's report, the new  text should be circulated to members for approval;  and that no further meeting of the Committee should  be held unless a member disagreed with the substance  of the new text and requested a further meeting.
(54) It was so agreed,
(55) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  then congratulated the Rapporteur on the excellence  of the report he had prepared.
(56) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) thanked  all those members of the Committee and the  Secretariat who had helped him to perform the task  entrusted to him.
(67) The CHAIRMAN thanked the members of the  Committee for the valuable contributions they had  made to the work; and the Rapporteur, the members  of the Secretariat, the interpreters and the staff for  their assistance. :  The meeting rose at 6 p.m.