9 November 1956, at 10,30 a,m,  Chairman: Mr, MATSUI (Japan)  {1) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) pointed out a mistake  in the agenda of the Legal Committee as shown in tle  Conference Journal, No.5. "Questions referred to  the Legal Committee by other organs of the General  Conference'', after item 14.2, should be delsted, and  the following inserted after item 14.1: "1. Reports  on the action taken to give effect to conventions and  recommendations adopted by international conferences  convened under Unesco's auspices ~ Questions raised  by the Committee on Reports of Member States  (document 9C/REP/PROV/1); 2. Inclusion in the  final agenda of the General Conference of an item pro-  posed by the Greek Government: Measures to be  taken and recommendations to be addressed to Mem-  ber States with a view to ensuring the free functioning  of education in territories under their administration -  question referred by the General Conference’,  Owing to technical difficulties, it had been possible  to issue the draft report for consideration by the  Committee only in French and Spanish. Mr, Saba  ‘asked delegates to study the French text.  ITEM 14.2 OF THE AGENDA: DRAFT AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLE V,  PARAGRAPHS 1 AND 13, OF THE CONSTITUTION OF UNESCO, AND  TO RULES 95 AND 95A OF THE RULES OF PROCEDURE OF THE  GENERAL CONFERENCE (continued)  ADOPTION OF THE REPORT (document 9C/JUR/PROV/2)
(2) Mr. REININK (Netherlands) (Rapporteur) stated  that he had nothing to add to the text of the draft re-  port, which he proceeded to read paragraph by para-  graph.
(3) Mr. CASTELL/,NOS (Colombia) congratulated  the Rapporteur op the clarity, accuracy and ¢icel-  lence of his first report.  an alteration was necessary to the wording of para-  graph 5. He urged that in the sentence, "....la  cuestion sometida a votaciôn por el Presidente del  Comité Juridico en 1954 estaba concebida en términos  muy generales y abarcaba tanto...", the words  estaba and abarcaba be put into the present tense, i.e.  està and abarcd. He added that the tense employed  in the text as it stood would signify the cancellation  of the decision taken by the General Conference at its  eighth session, when in actual fact only a slight  modification was being recommended.
(4) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the imperfect  indicative in French had not the same meaning as in  Spanish and that there was no reason to amend the  French text to bring it into line with the Spanish,
(5) Mr. CASTELLANOS (Colombia) emphasized that  it was a peculiarity of the Spanish language that, in  the case under discussion, the different tenses had  In the Spanish text, However,
679  entirely different meanings, and he urged that his  amendments be introduced in order that the Spanish-  speaking peoples would be able to understand the  correct meaning of the text,
(6) His proposal was accepted.
(7) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) asked that the word  "imitaient” be replaced by "limitent" in the second  line of paragraph 9 (French text).  Approved,
(8) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought that the  Committee should indicate more clearly, in para-  graph 10, that it had considered the necessity for  greater precision in the text of the amendment, but that  it had not found it possible to be more specific in a  legal text.  He agreed with the Rapporteur that the feeling of the  Committee was broadly expressed in paragraph
9, but thought that its views should be stated  more clearly.
(9) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) understood that the  United Kingdom de\egate's idea was that it should be  indicated that the v/ording of the Liberian proposal in  fact tended to widen eligibility beyond the Liberian  Government's intention. The Legal Adviser did not  think it desirable to include that point. The Committee  might have gathered that Liberia did not mean ‘uv give  its proposal as wide an application as it wor id in fact  have; but it had not enough data to say au categorically  and could not attribute an intention that had not been  explicitly expressed.
(10) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) thought that, if the dele-  gate of the United Kingdom pressed his proposed  amendment to paragraph 10,- the Committee might  adopt the following wording: "If the intention of the  Government of Libéria was to restrict the application  of its proposal to the member of the Executive Board  elected at the second extreordinary session of the  General Conference, it would be preferable to mention  a shorter term of office than four years, say, three  and a half years".  However, if the United Kingdom delegate did not  insist, Mr. Haguiwara thought that paragraph 10 might  remain ae it was.
(11) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that, in the  light of the explanations given by the Legal Adviser,  he would withdraw his proposal regarding paragraph
(12) As no other observation was forthcoming, the  report was adopted.   vii-2  ITEM 14.1 OF THE AGENDA? DRAFT AMENDMENTS TO THE  RULES OF PROCEDURE OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  (continued) (document 9C/ADM/12)
(13) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan) (Representative of  the Executive Board) asked the Committee to take a  decision on paragraph 4 of document 9C/ADM/12,  which referred to the abolition of the Advisory Com-  mittee on Programme and Budget proposed by the  Executive Board, He recalled that the General Con-  ference, having considered the Committee's abolition  at its eighth session, had asked the Executive Board  to study the question and analyse the replies recéived  from Member States to a circular sent them on the  point, The Special Committee of the Executive Board  set up to examine the organization and methods of  work of the General Conference had presented a re-  port which had been adopted by the Board (document  EX/SPC/Report), The conclusions of that report had  prompted paragraph 4 of document 9C/ADM/12).  Mr. Haguiwara read out paragraphs 11-14 of docu-  ment EX/SPC/Report, relating to the Advisory Com-  mittee on Programme and Budget. He reminded the  meeting that the membership of the Advisory Com-  mittee on Programme and Budgét had been fixed at -  the end of the eighth session, in preparâtion for the  ninth session; and that, according to the report of  the Special Committee, the ninth session was to be  looked upon as a period of transition. Measures had  already been taken accordingly. The Executive  Board's proposal was therefore that the Advisory  Committee on Programme and Budget be abolished  from the tenth session of the Conference.
(14) In reply to Mr. SIDDIQUI (Pakistan), who wished  to know what were the reasons for the proposed  abolition and what advantages it would have, Mr.  HAGUIWARA (Japan) (Representative of the Executive  Board) stated that, until the eighth session of the  , Conference, the Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget had been responsible for co-ordinating  the various chapters of the programme and budget and  for considering them as a whole in order.to adjust  the budget to the ceiling previously determined by the  General Conference. The Committee had played a  very important part, but the effect of {ta work had  sometimes been to impede the activities of the Pro-  gramme Commission. The General Conference, at  its eighth session, had come to the conclusion that  the Executive Board, consisting for the future of  government representatives, could replace the Advi-  sory Committee, especially as the Board studied the  proposed programme and budget from the time when  it was first drawn up.
(15) Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  Mecs) thought that the problem might be considered  from two points of view; it might be regarded as a  simple question of drafting amendments to the Rules  of Procedure, but it also involved a decision on the  principle of abolishing the Advisory Committee on  Programme and Budget, The Legal Committee did  not seem to be competent to discuss the second ques-  tion, which was one of substance ard therefore a  matter for the General Conference, All that was ex-  pected of it was an expression of opinion on the word-  ing of the amendment, unless it decided that the
680  LEGAL COMMITTEE  question of substance was also within its competence,
(16) The CHAIRMAN thought that the Committee should  consider the question as to both substance and form,  but he pointed out that the Commissions would probably  wish to discuss the substance of the proposed amend-  ment, Normally, the Administrative Commission con-  sidered the substance of proposals and referred them  to the Legal Committee for its opinion on their legal  aspects, It was for the Committee to decide whether  it was advisable to embark at once on consideration  of the question,
(17) Mr, SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  agreed that, in considering the amendments proposed  under item 14, 2 of the age::da, the Committee had been  aware of the decision of the Administrative Commis-  sion with regard to the policy matters involved, How-  ever, he understood that the Administrative Commis-  sion was under great pressure to complete certain  financial business in order to enable a vote to be taken  in plenary meeting on the overall budget ceiling, For  that reason, and in order to expedite the work of the  General Conference, certain items had been referred  to the Legal Committee without prior discussion by the  Administrative Commission. The Executive Board  had recommended the abolition of the Advisory Com-  mittee on Programme and Budget in order to avoid a  duplication of work, and he thought that the Legal  Committee could well discuss that proposal in general  terms and consider whether or not the language of the  proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure was  satisfautory, in case the proposal were eventually  adopted by the Administrative Commission and the  General Conference, He believed he was right in assum  ing that the proposal of the Executive Board would take  effect from the tenth, and not from the ninth seasion  of the Conference.  {18) The CHAIRMAN felt that the remarks of the dele-  gate of the United States of America were pertinent.  The Committee might well agree to discuss the ques-  tion as it stood, in order to speed up the work of the  Conference and to avoid the necessity of having to  revert to {t later.  Mr, Haguiwara had pointed out that the proposal was  to abolish the Advisory Committee from the tenth ses-  sion of the Conference; the Chairman felt that, from  the legal point of view, it was important to determine  whether the measure would come into effect at the end  of the ninth session or only at the beginning of the  tenth, and that point should be made clear when a re-  port on the matter was being adopted.
(19) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed with the  views expressed by the delegate of the United States  of America, and the point raised by the Chairman.  He was prepared to accept the amendment proposed,  and did not think it gave rise to any legal problems,  although the Committee might have to give some con-  sideration to the legal consequences of accepting the  Executive Board's proposal, For instance, the Chair-  man of the Advisory Committee on Programme and  Budget for the ninth session had already been appointed,  and had taken her seat on the General Committee. If  the Committee were æolished, the size of the General  Committee would be reduced by one member, and the   LEGAL COMMITTEE  Legal Committee should perhapa draw attention to  legal consequences of that kind,
(20) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan) (Representative of the  Executive Board) confirmed the Chairman's state-  ment. The Executive Board had not made any very  precise recommendation concerning the abolition of  the Advisory Committee during the ninth session.  Under the terms of document 8C/7, Annex I, para-  graph 5, it was left to the General Conference to  determine the date at which the measure was to come  into effect. , The Executive Board had even considered  setting up à sort of ad hoc Committee to take over  temporarily some of the functions of the Advisory  Committee. ‘  Speaking as a delegate of Japan, Mr, Haguiwara  agreed with the Chairman that it would be advisable  to decide what was to be done for the ninth session,  Thé Legal Committee might mention in its report  that the recommendation submitted in document
9C/ADM/12 fulfilled the legal requirements, but that  it was necessary to state in precise terms what was  to be done at the ninth session, In fact, the Chairman  of the Adyisory Committee had already been desig-  pated and the Legal Committee might recommend that  the abolition of the Committee be deferred until the  erd of the ninth session.
(21) Mr, SABA (Legal Adyiser) suggested that the  Committee should base its report on its own earlier  statements concerning the proposed amendment to  Rule 30 of the Rules of Procedure. It might point out  that the representative of the Executive Board had  drawn attention to the fact that the Board had made no  decision regarding either the maintenance or the  abolition of the Advisory Committee during the ninth  session, but that, since the Committee had already  been set up for the ninth session, its disappearance  during that session would entail certain difficulties,  such, for instance, as those relating to the member-  ship of the General Committee of the Conference.  The Committee might alzo mention that the wording  proposed for the amendment to Rule 30 met the con-  ditions required as to both substance and form, but  that, if the General Conference did not intend to bring  into immediate effect the changes in procedure  adopted for the Nominations Committee, it would be  necessary to specify that the changes would take effect  at the end of the ninth session. .
(22) The CHAIRMAN thought that the position was  clear and proposed that the Committee pass on to the  consideration of paragraph 5 of document 9C/ADM/12.  {23) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) (Representative of the  Executive Board) pointed out that the Special Com-  mittee of the Executive Board had based its draft amend-  ment on Rule 40 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Assembly of the United Nations,which he read out.
(24) Mr. REININK (Netherlands) (Rapporteur) pro-  posed that the Committee adopt the same procedure  for the discussion of that item as had been suggested  by the delegate of the United States of America with  respect to the previous item,  Agreed.
(25) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said his delega-  tion was prepared to support the amendment proposed  by the Executive Board, but he wondered whether cer-  tain difficulties might not arise in interpreting that  amendment in future years. Who, for instance, would  determine to what extent the desirability of placing an  {tem on the agenda could be discussed without entering  into questions of substance, and who would adjudicate  in case of a dispute?
(26) The CHAIRMAN thought the point raised by the  delegate of the United Kingdom interesting, Other  Commissions and Committees would probably also  wish to study the substance of that question,
(27) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) in reply to the dele-  gate of the United Kingdom, stated that, in his view,  the legal aspect of the problem related only to the last  paragraph of Rule 36, providing for the General Com-  mittee's part in the co-ordination of the Conference's  work, The change suggested by the Executive Board  seemed both logical and natural, The General Com-  mittee was not to examine the substance of a question  when considering its inclusion in the agenda but, should  a question of priority arise, then it might have to do so.  The Legal Adviser wondered, however, whether it  was desirable to add the proposed amendment to the  end of Rule 36, or whether it would not be better to  insert it after sub-paragraph (c), in order not to affect  sub-paragraph (d). Without having any decided views  on the point, he hoped that delegates would give some  thought to it and voice their opinions at a subsequent  meeting,
(28) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) thought that, at  first sight, he could agree with the suggestion that the  proposed amendment be inserted in sub-paragraph (c)  of Rule 36, and not at the end of the Rule, as recom-  mended by the Executive Board, It might well be that  the effect of that amendment would be to diminish the  powers of the General Committee, but he did not think  that that was a matter upon which the Legal Committee  was required to speculate for the time being. The  problem could perhaps be studied in greater detail at  a later date.
(29) The CHAIRMAN thought that it might perhaps be  wise to postpone consideration of the question to a  later meeting, Thé Committee might, however, men-  tion in its report the objection raised by the delegate  of the United Kingdom.
(30) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) did not want to  give the impression that he had any doubt regarding  the utility of the proposed amendment, He had merely  been concerned over the place at which it should be  inserted in the Rule.
(31) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America) said  it would appear desirable that the Rule which applied  at the General Assembly of the United Nations should  also apply at the General Conference of Unesco. He  had understood that the amendment would appear at  the end of the Rule, in order to cover all the provisions  of that Rule.
(32) The CHAIRMAN had underatood that the Committee   VII-2  was discussing a question of subatance, but if it was  merely a question of form, then it might be debated.
(33) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) took the view that the  delegate of the United Kingdom had raised a question  of substance, It was necessary to decide, he thought,  whether the addition of a paragraph to Rule 36 did not  to some extent curtail the functions of the General  Committee, and, in particular, its rôle in the direc-  tion of the work of the session. He did not think that  the whole of the existing text of Rule 36, and the  amendment proposed, quite corresponded with the  wording of Rule 40 of the, Rulea of Procedure of the  United Nations General Assembly, The Administra-  tive Commission could not express an opinion on that  point, which involved legal considerations, unless the  Committee gave it specific advice.
(34) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) formally pro-  posed that the addition to Rule 36 of the Rules of Pro-  cedure contained in document 9C/ADM/12 Annex be  inserted in sub ‘paragraph (c) of that Rule.
(35) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  Mes) did not think that it was within the purview of the  Legal Coinmittee to decide on the question of substance,  and to determine whether it was desirable to limit the  functions of the General Committee as had been pro-  posed by the Executive Board. The Committee should  simply advise on the legal implications of the adoption  of the amendment, Two solutions had been proposed:  the delegate of the United Kingdom had suggested  inserting the amendment after sub-paragraph (c),  which would imply that the restriction applied only to  that particular point, namely the drawing up of the  agenda; whereas the Executive Board had suggested  putting the amendment at the end of the Rule, so that  it would affect sub-paragraph (d) also. The implica-  tions of the amendment would vary according to the  solution adopted; that was the point that the Legal  Committee should bring out, without prejudice to the  ultimate decision of the Conference.
(36) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) drew attention to  paragraph 13 of document 9C/7 Annex I, in which it  appeared that the relevant paragraph of Rule 40 of the  Rules of Procedure of the United Nations General  Assembly referred only to consideration of matters  relating to the agenda of the General Assembly.  Acceptance of the Executive Board's proposal would  therefore give the amendment a wider application at  Unesco than was the case at the United Nations.
(37) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) wished, aa delegate of  Japan, to know the terms of Rule 40 of the Rules of  Procedure of the United Nations General Assembly, in  order to compare the text with the one that would  result from the amendment suggested by the Executive  Board.
(38) Mr. SABA (Légal Adviser) was not in a position  to furnish the information on the spot, but stated that  the section of Rule 40 that had served as the basis for  the Board's proposed amendment could be found in  paragraph 13 of document 9C/7. He read out the text  and pointed out that it did not correspond exactly with  that suggested by the Executive Board for Rule 36.
682  LEGAL COMMITTEE  In addition, Mr, Saba admitted that, as had been  pointed out by the delegate of the Union of Soviet  Soolalist Republics; the Legal Committee was not  competent to decide finally on the question of substance,  It was within its power, however, to draw the atten-  tion of the Administrative Commission and the General  Conference to the implications of the proposed amend-  ment, and to indicate whether the wording suggested  by the Executive Board did in fact convey the intention  behind the proposal,
(39) Mr, SIMSARIAN (United States of America) pointe  out that the main object of the proposal was to achieve  uniformity with respect to the conduct of meetings of  the General Committee, as between the United Nations  and Unesco, He therefore did not think that the Legal  Committee could make any recommendation in that  respect until it was in possession of the full text of the  relevant Rule of Procedure of the General Assembly,  He proposed that further discussion of the item be  postponed until the text referred to was available.
(40) That proposal was approved,
(41) The CHAIRMAN invited the Committee to consider  paragraph 7 of document 9C/ADM/12, relating to the  discussion in plenary meetings of proposals rejected  by the Commissions of the Conference.
(42) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) (Representative of the  Executive Board) drew the attention of delegates to -  paragraph 24 of document 9C/7, which showed that the  Board's proposal had been inspired by the suggestion  of four Member States. He reminded the meeting that  Member States whose proposals had been rejected by  one of the main Commissions had the right to submit  them afresh at plenary meetings, That practice had  frequently led to a repetition in plenary meetings of  discussions that had already taken place in a Commis-  sion. The Executive Board had concluded that it would  be well to avoid such repetition and it was with that  end in view that it had proposed an amendmen to the  Rules of Procedure.
(43) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lica) pointed out that the discussions that had taken  place in Commissions were not necessarily repeated  at plenary meetings. Experience had shown - and  there had been instances at the eighth session - that  discussions in plenary meetings might lead to entirely  different decisions from those taken in the Commis-  sions. Thus it could not be claimed,’a priori, that  discussion at plenary meetings achieved no results.  It should not be forgotten either that the plenary Con-  ference was the sovereign body of the Organization.  That consideration affected the very essence of the  question and the Soviet delegate apologized for having  mentioned it, but it seemed to him that it was the  Committee's duty to draw the attention of the Admini-  strative Commission and the General Conference to  the consequences that might follow from the adoption  of such an amendment. Those consequences might be  positive in the sense that, if the amendment were  adopted, delegations would have no certainty that their  proposals would be considered by the General Con-  ference once they had been rejected by a Commission;  they might be negative, for it often happened that a   LEGAL COMMITTEE  delegation had no means of knowing whether its pro-  posal had been rejectsd by a Commission until the .  report of the Commission had been approved, If the  report was adopted immediately or in a very short time  by the General Conference, the delegation had not the  stipulated twenty-four hours to express its opposition  to the decision taken, . The delegate of the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics thought that the Committee  should warn the Administrative Commission and the  General Conference of such possible consequences,  -The draft amendment would be acceptable, in Mr.  Golunsky's view, only if there were also another  amendment to prevent the report of a Commission  from being submitted to the plenary meeting within  less than three days after its adoption by the Commis-  sion.
(44) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), although recog-  nizing the weight of the arguments used by the delegate  of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, was not  convinced that the proposed new Rule was undesirable,  It was aimed at preventing a "snap" vote from being  taken in plenary meeting,’ when time ‘was getting short  and emotions were perhaps running high, thus rever-  sing a décision on a matter that had been given mature  consideration by one of the main Commissions. He  did not think {t would be practicable to introduce the  three-day rule suggested by the Soviet delégate. ; So  far as the question of limiting the rights of Member  States was concerned, it should be remembered that  it was sometimes necessary to impose certain limita-  tions in the interests of the orderly and expeditious  conduct of business. Furthermore, under the provi-  sions of Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, it was  always possible to suspend any Rule of Prétedure if  à two-thirds majority at the plenary meeting so  desired. That provision was sufficient to ensure that  any item of intérest to a majority of members could  always be rediscussed and voted on again at the  plenary meeting. He would therefore propose approval  of the new Rule recommended by the Executive Board  in document 9C/ADM/12.
(46) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  agreed on thé necessity of adopting a Rule réquiring  notice to be given of specifié questions arising from  the work of the Commissions that were tô be réopened  during the plenary meeting, Howevér, the text pro-  posed by the Executive Board did not appear t6 be  entirely suitable, and he fully agréed with the delegate  of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics that the  plenary meeting was the sovereign body of the Con-  ference and that'all Member States had a right to re-  quest reconsideration in plenary meeting of any item  discusned by one of the Commissions. The text,  therefore, should be so worded as to require notice  to be given of such intention, but should avoid any  suggestion that the right of Member States to raise  any question they wished in plenary meeting was to be  {ited He would propose a text on the following  ines:  "Notice shall be given in plenary meeting of specific  subjects considered by one of the Commissions, set  up in accordance with the provisions of Ruio 44 of the  Rules of Procedure, which it is proposed to discuss  again in the plenary meeting.  Such specific subjects, once notified, shall be
683     VII <2  included in the agenda of the plenary meeting to which  the report of the Commission itself is submitted, and  Notice of its inclusion in the agenda shall be given  to all delegations at least twenty-four hours before  the plenary meeting”.
(46) Mr, PADOUX (France) feared that the delegates  of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republica and the .  United Kingdom had considered the problem from the  point of view of substance rather than from the purely  legal standpoint, He said that, if the Committee was  to consider the question of substance, the French  delegation would also have reservations to express on  the subject of the draft amendment, which tended to  restrict the freedom of delegations, It would be well,  however, he thought, to determine whether the Com-  mittee was to discuss the substance of the question or  merely to see whether the proposal satisfied the  general rules from the legal point of view.
(47) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) did not think that a  narrow view should be taken of the functions of the  Legal Committee. It was the Committee's duty to  make observations and give advice to the other organs  of the General Conference on all the legal aspects of  questions referred to it. The question under discus-  sion, which concerned the rights of delegations, had a  very important legal aspect, which the Committee  could not overlook. The fact that the membership of  the General Conference was not as strong on the legal  side as that of certain other international assemblies  was a further reason for the Committee's not content-  ing itself with discussions on the formal aspects of  problems; it behoved it to bring out the legal points  involved.  {48) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) had been im-  pressed by the arguments of the delegates of the United  States of America and Japan, and now felt that he had  been premature in proposing approval of the text.  recommended by the Executive Board. Some redrafting  of that text was obviously necessary and he would pro-  pose the replacement of the preamble by the following,  paragraphs (a) and (b) remaining unchanged:  "Propositions which have been rejected by one of the  Commissions shall not again be raised specifically in  the plenary meeting, unless:"
(49) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) (Representative of the  Executive Board) supported the proposal of the dele-  gate of the United States of America, for he knew that  the Executive Board had had no intention of curtailing  the rights of Member States when it had proposed its  amendment to the Rules of Procedure, The Board  had merely folf that it would be preferable not to  repeat at plenary meetings the discussions that had  already taken place in the Commissions; if such repeti-  tion appéared to serve no useful purpose, and it had  sought to establish a special procedure to make it  possible for & question to be reintroduced into the  agenda of a plenary meeting, but only on certain condi-  tions. However, the proposed text no longer applied  only to such cases. Mr. Haguiwara wondered whether  it might not be well, in the first paragraph of the’  amendment, to provide that a delegation wishing to  reopen the debate on a question in plenary meeting  should notify the fact within forty-eight hours of the   via-2  Commission's explicit decision against it; the second  part would then apply only to cases in which a request  had been made for the inclusion of the question in the  agenda,
(60) Mr. SIDDIQUI (Pakistan) felt ‘that there was  some difference of opinion regarding the legal right  of delegations to speak on any subject in plenar  meeting, His own view was that it would be within the  competence of the President of the Conference to call  for a vote on any proposal to reopen discussion of a  ’hpecifio subject that had already been considered by a  Commission, In that cage the decision would rest with  the General Conference itself and the proposed new  Rule would be unnecessary.
(51) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) was not dure that he  had quite gathered the purport of the proposal formu-  lated by four Member States, which had given rise to ’  the proposed amendment, He wondered whether it was  a question of avoiding renewed discussion of a specific  question in plenary meeting, of of preventing a draft  amendment rejected by a Commission from being  voted on in plenary meeting. - He thought ‘hat the Com-  mittee might mention in its report that the proposal  did not seem to be sufficiently explicit où that point.  Concerning the wording, Mr. Saba considered that  the word "notified" was inadequate, for it did not show  how the notification was to be effected.’ In his opinion,  however, the Committee should first of all gain a clear  idea of the iñientions that had originally prompted the  proposal, and then indicate that the content of the text  should be revised, as it did not quite convey how those  intentions were to be interpreted. ’
(62) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) pointed out that, as the  delegate of the Soviet Union had said, a proposal re- -  jected by a Commission could quite well be adopted  later at a plenary meeting; but in certain cases the  proposal was rejected by such a large majority that it  would seem useless to press it. He thought that the  proposal of the four Member States was intended to  avoid repetition of the discussions in such a case.
(63) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) pointed out that the interpretations suggested by  the members of the Committee seemed to go much  further than was warranted by the text submitted to  them. At first sight, the proposed amendment  seemed to be aiming at the avoidance of any unexpec-  ted discussion {n plenary meeting, and at ensuring  that all delegations were informed in advance of the '  renewal of discussion of a given question: But certain  delegates saw in it an attempt to prevent the plenary  meeting from discussing or voting on a proposal re*  jected by a Commission. If that interpretation was  correct, then it was not only the rights of Member  States that were to be restricted, but those of the  plenary Conference itself, In that case, the proposal  was unacceptable. There could be no question of re-  fusing the General Conference in plenary meeting the  right to examine any question referred to it,  The delegate of the Soviet Union stressed that deci-  sions taken in a Commission could be of two kinds:
684  LEGAL COMMITTEE  wh were decided by a vote, then they were clearly  state but the Commission might simply exprèas ite  views, ir principle, on the substance of à question, and  the decision might not appear in precise terms i  in the report. In the first case there was no difficult  but in the second, given the fact that views on prin-  ciple were sometimes capable of various interprets-  tions, delegations could always argue that they had not  understood the decision in the sense suggested by the  ‘report and could therefore contest it, The situation  might then become complicated; discussion in plenary  meeting might be necessary, and the notice suggested  would be inadequate.  Mr, Golunsky thought that, in any case, the amend:  ment could not be accepted as it stood. He therefore  suggested that à small drafting committee - of three,  for instance - be appointed to redraft the amendment,
(64) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) tet that the  Committee should draw the attention of the Adminis: -  trative Commission to the various:interpretations to -  which the proposed text might give rise, » It was clear  from the arguments expounded by the delegate ôf the :  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics that the text as it  stood was ambiguous, and it was obviously not possible  for the Legal Committee to pronounce on the proposal  until it was clear what the text meant. He maintained  his previous proposal, which he felt was logical since  all Member States were represented on the main Com-  missions and would have had every opportunity to state  their views on any subject at the Commission meetings.  However, he would agree to the suggestion of the Soviet  delegate that the Committee establish a small sub-  committee to draft alternative texts that would cover  all interpretations of the Executive Board's recommen:  dation.  Replying to a question from Mr. Saba, he explained  that he had meant the words "be raised" in his pro-  posal to cover both discussion of, and a revote on, &  proposal,
(55) The CHAIRMAN asked the members of the Com*  mittee whether they were prepared to set up a drafting  committee to revise the amendment, as had been sug-  gested by the delegate of the Soviet Union. He pro- .  posed that the delegates of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, Japan and the United States of America be  appointed for that purpose.  Agreed,
(56) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  pointed out that paragraph 6 of Rule 78 also contained  a reference to the Adyisory Committee on Programme  and Budget, and presumed that that reference would ’  also have to be deleted from the Rules of Procedure  if the Executive Board's recommendation to abolish  the Committee were approved.
(57) It was agreed that that point would be included in  the Committee's report to the Administrative  Commission.  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.