20 November 1956, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Mrs, MYRDAL (Sweden)  ITEM 9 OF THE AGENDA: CONSIDERATION OF PART OU OF THE  PROPOSED PROGRAMME. AND BUDGET FOR 1957-1988 (continued)  (documents 9C/5 and Addenda and Corrigenda)
(1) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on the Social  Sciences chapter in documents 9C/5 and 9C/5 Corri-  gendum 1. She also drew the Commission's attention  to the Executive Board's recommendations in docu-  ment 9C/5 Addendum 1 and to Member States' com-  ments in document 9C/4, Annex III,
(2) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) re-  ported that the Director-General, taking into account  the Annex to Corrigendum 1 to document 9C/5 and the  draft resolutions on major projects submitted by the  evening of 16 November, prepare à new Corri-  gendum € the Secretariat's proposals for the  use of the additional $1,000,000, The Executive  Board would be consulted on the text and the new  document would then be distributed to the Conference.  Mr. Thomas suggested, therefore, that the Pro-  gramme Commission wait for the texts of the draft  resolutions submitted by delegations, snd for the  Director-General's proposals, before taking any deci-  sions on the use of the additional funds voted by the  General Conference.
(3) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the business be-  fore the Commission was to take action on programme  resolutions; the work plans were submitted only for  reference,  ITEM 0.3 OF THE AGENDA : SOCIAL SCIENCES
(4) Mr, MARSHALL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) said that the programme of his Department  represented a development along established lines.  That was naturally to be expected in the section on  General Activities, where continuity of policy was  nécessary in order to build up to maximum efficiency  the services rendered by Unesco to the social sciences  in general. Also the programme contained three im-  portant projects which were abôut to pass from the  preliminary phase of preparation to full activity in the  next two years, namely: (1) the dictionaries of ter-  minology; (2) the project on international understand-  ing and peaceful co-operation; and (3) the Calcutta  Centre for the Study of the Social Implications of  Industrialization in Southern Asia,  The work under General Activities rested on two  pillars: relations with non-governmental organizations  and with National Commissions and governments.  With relatively modest subventions his Department  maintained direct contact and close collaboration with  the international scientific associations covering the  social science field. He drew attention to the
345  International Social Science Council and the Interna-  national Association of Legal Sciences, whose subven-  tions were being increased, and to the International  Statistical Institute, where a reduction of the subven-  tion was proposed. The subvention to the Social  Science Institute in Cologne would be considered  separately later.  The second group of seryices rendered consisted of  work in information and documentation. Mr. Marshall  drew attention to the budgetary reduction proposed, in  paragraphs 65, 70 and 71 of Corrigendum 1 to document
9C/5, in the sums devoted to bibliographies, The  economy would be achieved by including social anthro-  pology in the bibliography of sociology, The work of  the Statistical Division would continue on established  lines as regarded serial publications, with the addition  of an analytical statistical study. In the teaching of  social sciences, the Department would concentrate on  Participation in Member States! Activities, including  refresher courses and seminars, which had proved very  effective, as shown by the success of the Franco- Polish  Seminar held in Paris. But it had been necessary to  propose, in the Corrigendum, a reduction of $5,000 in  the budgetary provision for Participation. In termino-  logy, work was going forward with the dictionaries in  French and English. In conformity with the priorities  established in Montevideo, work in the field of Applied  Social Sciences would concentrate on: (1) international  understanding and peaceful co-operation; (2) human  rights; and (3) social and economic development.  Under (1), experts would be brought together to dis-  cuss the development of the social sciences in their  various countries and to study the contribution made by  the social sciences to the understanding of the effects  of differences of social and économic structure and  ideology on relations between countries. An extra  $8, 000 had been allocated to that itém in Corrigendum
1, to provide for an additional interdisciplinary meet-  ing, Under (2), the work would concentrate on race  problems, with special reference to the provision of  materials suitable for usé in schools and the publica-  tion of a Yearbook on current research: Under (3),  the main activities were the seminars on urbanization,  the work of the regional Research Centre at Calcutta,  and the general surveys by the Paris Office on the  Social Implications of Technological Change.  The general principles underlying the programme  in the field of applied social sciences were that the  Department should survey the volume of knowledge  and its possible applications, bring together social  scientists and those engaged in practical administra-  tion, in order to foster better co-operation between  them, and organize pilot studies in new fields of re-  search. The resources for original research of a  more ambitious character were limited and would be  devoted mainly to the work of the Calcutta Centre.  Mr. Marshall explained that the Paris research   Iv-9  office did not engage in original research but was  occupied mainly with a critical assessment of research  already done. The Calcutta Centre would promote  original research undér the direction of the Depart-  ment and with the support of the countries in the  region. The Agreement under which that Centre had  been established would run until the end of 1958. It  was the intention of the Director-General to continue  to support the Centre at about the same financial level  for the subsequent two years, The Cologne Institute  was an independent body to which Unesco gave a sub-  vention and on whose Governing Board it had one  representative, Its position was unsatisfactory owing  to the inadequacy of its funds, and it was doubtful  whether the budget of the Social Sciences Department  should be expected to continue to carry the heavy bur-  den of the subvention.  it had been hoped that the Institute would be able to  attract other sources of income, but it had not yet"  succeeded in doing 80 to any large extent, The Execu-  tive Board had recommended that the subvention of  $30,000 a year shown in Corrigendum 1 be increased  by a sum not exceeding $8,000 a year. Mr. Marshall  concluded by saying that the debates of the Commis-  sion would not only finalize the present programme  but would also assist the Department in planning its  future programme.
(5) Mrs. SCHLUETER-HERMKES (Federal Republic  of Germany) (Representative of the Executive Board)  reminded the Commission that the Executive Board's  opinion (document 9C/5 Addendum 1) was that the  General Conference should, in the main, examine the  broad outline of the programme and budget without  going too much into the details of the work plans.
(6) The CHAIRMAN thought the Commission should  start with the Preamble to the Social Sciences pro-  gramme, paragraphs 1-22, leaving paragraph 17 -  summary of budget estimates - for later debate.  Agreed,
(1) Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) raised a  point of order.‘ He wished to know how and when the  two projects relating to teaching and research in the  social sciences in Latin America (document 9C/5  Corrigendum 1, Annex) would be discussed.
(8) The CHAIRMAN suggested that each project should  be considered in relation to the appropriate resolution.  The new proposals should be fitted in by the Commis-  sion at the appropriate places. The project on social  sciences in Latin America would thus be discussed in  connexion with the teaching of social sciences in  general.
(8) Mr, BARBEY (Switzerland) reminded the Commis-  sion that the head of the Swiss delegation had already,  in his opening speech, indicated the interest that his  Government took in that chapter of Unesco's pro-  gramme. While de deplored that the funds allocated  to social science projects were comparatively small,  Mr. Barbey thought that that part of the programme  was, on the whole, very well planned, The Secreta-  riat had presented a programme of immediate action  and had also prepared plans for future action which he
346     PROGRAMME COMMISSION  thought the Commission should endorse forthwith,  Moreover, the social soierices programme showed a  determination to co-operate with other Departments,  particularly in connexion with the major projects,  which had not been évident in the programmes preeen-  ted to the General Conference at earlier sessions,  Mr. Barbey expressed the opinion that the distinc-  tion between general and special activities was rather  arbitrary and that projects submitted under the head-  ing of "special activities" were likewise essential con-  tributions to the various social actence problems. He  thought indeëd that à further major project, already  foreshadowed in resolution 3.91, might be prepared  for the 1959-1960 period, Such a major project would  be of interest to nearly all Member States and would  be both a typical expression of Unesco's ideals and a  logical sequel to the recommendations of the Economic  and Social Council. In that connexion it might be well  to consider how the problem of automation could be  studied; the Cologne Institute might, for instance, be  called upon to help.  {10) Mr. RAADI (Iran), on a point of order, asked when  the Chairman proposed to open discussion on the pro-  posal contained in document 9C/PRG/3 (Establishment  of a training centre for international civil servants),
(11) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the document  related to a specific item of the agenda (9.3.1); it  would be taken up later separately. Item 9.3.2, like  items 9.3.3 and 9, 3.4, was in abeyance pending the  receipt of the working party's report.
(12) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur of the  Commitiee on Reports of Member States) said that the  Committee's observations on social 'aclerce activities  were contained in document 9C/PRG/2, paragraphs
26 and 27. A study of the Member States’ reports  showed clearly that they were keenly and actively in-  terested in all matters relating to teaching and re-  search in that field. Several Member States had ex-  pressed their desire to receive Unesco's help in the  training of senior staff and experts. The reports gave  much prominence to research on the major problems  of the day, i.e. to the applied social sciences.
(13) Mr. VITO (Italy) stressed that it was essential  to establish an order of priorities between the different  parts of the programme if good co-ordination and im-  plementation were to be achieved, He emphasized th  importance of fostering teaching and research in the  social sciences by means of regional meetings; and |  stressed the social aspects of industrialization. His  delegation would support the plans made in connexion  with the Paris Office, the Calcutta Centre and the.  Cologne Institute. On Unesco's collaboration with the  United Nations on the question of human rights, he  said the matter should be related to economic and |  human development by a slightly different orientation  of the programme, towards cultural and social rights.  The Italian delegation wished that the International  Social Science Council should play a larger part in the  work under consideration and thought that the Secre-  tariat could ask the National Commissions for greater  contributions to it.
(14) Mr. SCHAFF (Poland) appreciated the efforts of   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  the Director-General and of the Department of Social  Sciences. He thought the shortcoming of the budget  was that it did not state what the activities of the  various divisions were té be, The Department's bud-  get was very low - less than half those of the other  Departments - "which he found incomprehensible, He  could not understand a cut of $80, 000 which adversely  affected the most important activities of the Depart-  ment, such, for instance, as the clearing house, He  was concerned to find that Member States! activities -  symposia, seminars, courses - would also be reduced  by $5,000, when that type of activity should, on the  contrary, be expanded. The Department of ‘Social  Sciences should concentrate on social research in  fields of special importance, such as tensions, and  should intensify its bibliographical and publications  activities by recourse to the extra $1,000,000 voted by  the Conference.
(15) Mr. KOVAL (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic)  drew attention to the statement regarding Unesco's  co-operation with the Cologne Institute, in document
9C/5, that on the basis of past experience it did not  seem desirable for Unesco to continue to support the  Institute as it had dorie in past years; it was there-  fore proposed to reduce the subvention for 1957 and  to abolish it in 1958. Mr. Koval asked the Director  of the Department of Social Sciences to make a brief  statement on the trends and nature of the Cologne  Institute's activities.
(16) The CHAIRMAN said that the point raised by the  delegate of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic  would be taken up later, in connexion with the discus-  sion on the Cologne Institute.
(17) Mr. MARSHALL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) agreed that the total budget wea in-  adequate to do all that Member States desiréd, The  Commission should bear in mind the policy laid down  by the General Conference at its previous session,  The reduction of the budget was related to the estab-  lishment of the major projects and, when the share of  the Social Sciences Department was taken into account,  it would be found that the budget had not diminished in  absolute figures. The suggestions made by the dele-  gates of Haly and Switzerland would be carefully  considered.
(16) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) re-  ferred to a remark made by the delegate of Poland,  who had said that the statistical service of the Depart-  ment of Social Sciences was really a general service.  Mr. Thomas pointed out that there was another  general service incorporated in a Department, as the  Unesco Library was attached to the Department of  Cultural Activities.
(19) The CHAIRMAN seid that paragraphs 17 and
18-22 would be discussed separately later. She opened  the debate on secticn 3.1 - Co-operation with interna-  tional social scienca organizations and institutions.
3.1 Co-operation with International Social Science  Organizations and Institutions   (20) Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) asked for more
347  IV-0  information about the International Social Science  Council and about the most appropriate method of  organizing Uneaco's activities in that field. He won-  dered how far the Council went in promoting the desired  activities in Member States.
(21) Mr, MARSHALL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) explained that the Council was a body of  individuals drawn from various disciplines, not a -  federation of associations, The Council's services  were limited by the heavy cost of holding meetings,  The Council and its Executive Committee advised the  Department on its programme, and it also actéd as an  agent for the execution of some of the projects and was  responsible for the Research Office on the Social Im-  plications of Technological Change. It maintained con-  tact with Member States through national councils of  social science, where those existed. Careful thought  was being given, with the help of the international  social science associations, to means by which the  Council could be made still more effective than it was  at the moment.
(22) The CHAIRMAN requested the Commission to  take formal action on resolution 3.11,
(23) Resolution 3.11 was approved unanimously.
(24) Resolution 3.12 was also approved unanimously.
(25) The CHAIRMAN opened the dincussion on para-  graphs 35-37: Unesco Institute for Social Sciences  (Cologne).
(26) Mr. STERNBERGER (Federal Republic of  Germany) congratulated Mr. Marshall on his very com-  plete exposé, but asked the Commission to view the  Cologne Institute in à different light, It had been  started fivé years before with good prospects of develop-  ment, but grave difficulties had soon arisen and at the  moment it was a constant concern for which no cure  could be found. In the speaker's opinion, the Con-  ference should take a firm decision on the fate of the  Institute, whose viability was based on four conditions:
(1) able and imaginative people to run it; (2) work for  {t to perform; (3) time to work out its methods of  operation; (4) adequate funds. The work of the Cologne  Ingtitute was not insignificant: it had produced five  publications and three more were in preparation; new  work was not lacking. The Institute had always found  able people to work for it, but it had no Director,  because of lack of funds. It had failed to attract out-  side revenue, and Unesco had become sceptical as to  its chances of doing so. If the institution was to sur-  vive, it necded additional help froin Unesco. The  Director-General and the Execitive Board recom-  mended a subvention of $38,000,  The deplorable fact was that at the moment the Insti-  tute could neither live nor die. Mr. Sternberger agreed  that the structure of the Instituté could and should be  streamlined, but it should receive the $42,000 a year  recommended earlier by an Executive Board's work-  ing party. He appealed to the Commission for a final  and constructive decision.
(27) Mrs. SCHLUETER-HERMKES (Federal Republic  of Germany) (Representative of the Executive Board)   Iv-9  pointed out that,‘ in document 43 EX/Decisions, page
8, the Board had recommended fo the Director-  General that the annua) subvention to the Cologne  Institute for 1957 and 1958 bé fixed at $30,000 and had  expressed the view that the subventions should remain  at that level during the four-year period from 1957 to
1960, Moreover, the Executive Board had recom-  mended that a working party of thé Board be commis-  sioned, aiter the end of the ninth session of the  General Conference, to prepare long-term proposals.  That working party was to consult with the Secretariat  and with thé National Commission of the Federal  Republic of Germany, to study the experts’ report sub-  mitted to the 42nd seasion of the Executive Board, to  appraise the trends revealed by that document, to  consider the possible activities of the Institute, opera-  ting as a regional centre, and, finally, to assess the  financial aid which could be obtained from outside  sources. Mrs; Schlueter-Hermkes added that the  Executive Board had discussed the question again the  previous week and had approved a resolution which  included the following two paragraphs:  "Noting that the Executive Board proposes to exa-  mine in 1857 the situation of the three Unesco Insti-  tutes in the Federal Republic of Germany in order to  submit long-term recommendations to the General  Conference at its tenth session,  Invitee the Director-General to examine the diatri-  bution of the contribution of the Federal Republic of  Germany in order to ascertain whether the proportion  assigned to the Cologne Institute can be increased".  On the other hand, the Board's working party set  up to examine the financial situation of the Cologne  Institute had stated in its conclusions:  "A decision by the Board on the mrintenance of an  international institute of social sciences is most  urgent. If the Institute's permanent position in accep-  ted and if it is admitted to have high priority claims,  then certain fainaricial implications inevitably follow.  If Unesco cannot fully identify itself with its prospects  for a term of at least five years, the sooner this is  known the better" (document 45 EX/10, page 6).
(28) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark) had also intended to  draw the Commission's attention to the Board's ex-  pert committee's recommendation to allow ‘the  Cologne Institute $42,000 a year. He stressed that  the rôle of thé Institute, which he thought potentially  useful tor Unesco's work on the social implications  of industrialization, was as important for highly  developed countries as for underdeveloped ones. The  work so far achieved had been well done but its con-  tinuation depended où the life of the Institute; it was  perhaps a heavy burden on Unesco, but - given the  importance of its investigations - it was also a valu-  able asset. Mr, Nielsen therefore asked the Commis-  sion to consider favourably the Board's proposal to  keep the Institute alive. He himself preferred the  expert committee's proposal to give the Institute  $42,000 a year, In conclusion, he stressed that ex-  ternal help, in the form of contracts for speclal work,  would increase if the Institute was assured of mini-  mum maintenance resources, i.e. of a sound econo-  mic basis.
(29) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) endorsed  the remarks end proposals made by the delegate of the
348  PROGRAMME COMMISSION  Federal Republic of. Germany, which had already been  supported by the delegate of Denmark, - He recalled  that, when the Institutes were catablished, the Con-  ference's. intention had been to set up large institutions  assured of support and substantial financial resources  from international foundations, Those promises had sot  been kept and, in consequence, the Institutes had  suffered from an inatability which could not be allowed  to last much longer, It was necessary, in the firat  place, ta decide that the Cologne Institute should be |  maintained and then to provide it with the necessary  means, The annual subvention of $45,000 which had  been requested and supported, seemed adequate to en-  sure that the Institute could operate effectively,  Mr, Carneiro stressed that the aims of the Cologne  Institute had not been precisely defined and that its  activities had not been co-ordinated with those being  carried out in the same field in other parts of the  world, Since the General Conference had to express  its views on other similar projects, such as the Cal-  cutta Institute, the proposed Latin American Institutes  and the Paris Institute for Technological Research,  Mr. Carneiro thought it would be of interest to exam-  ine the problem gs a whole and to consider the possibilit  of a network of activities which might pave the way for  the major project in social sciences suggested by the  delegate of Switzerland, That would ensure co-.  ordination of research in the advanced and under-  developed countries, and keep the Cologne Institute in  being as part of a coherent international fabric.
(30) Mr, YERUSALIMSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) thought the question should be considered  from every standpoint. The problem was to find a  remedy, and that could be done only if qualified ex-  perts in possession of all the facts first diagnosed  what as wrong. The Soviet delegate agreed with the  Ukrainian delegate's statement of the problend and  wondered why, when there were several social science  institutes operating satisfactorily in Germany - two of  them dealing with international problems - only the ‘  Cologne Institute had raised doubts in the mind of the  representative of the Federal Republic of Germany.  The remarks which had been made with regard to  staff, experts,and the need for a thoroughly competent .  directorate, were, of torse, ‘interesting, but Mr.  Yerusalimsky did not believe that the main problem  was the allocation of adequate funds; an increase of :  funds alone would not ensure that the Inatitüte's acti-  vities were conducted along the lines desired. To  solve the problem, which the Executive Board's work-  ing party had examined from the financial point of  view only, it was nécessary to start on a sound footing  and analyse the work done so far by the Institute. In  the absence of any assurance that, given additional  funds, the Institute would be able to carry out the  tasks assigned to it, there could be no guarantee of its  satisfactory development. It was necessary, there-  fore, in order to break the vicious circle described.  by the delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany,  to study not only the financial aspect of the problem  but, more especially, the activities of the Institute in  relation to scientific research.
(31) Mr. KELLERMANN (United States of America)  was aympathetic to all the proposals made to keep  alive the Institute. It seemed to him, however, that   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  tinve were other possibilities than "kill or cure",  The United States of America was interested in the  "Mnntitute because it wis one of its "contractors!  .Unosco's prestige was irivoived in the survival of the  Institute; if it was declared a failure, it would be a  reflection on Unesco's work. : The Inétitute had been  created to niget a definite need - the lack of a Social  Ssionce Rrsearch Institute in central Europe - and the  United States of America expected that other sponsors  would eventually be attracted. Lack of funds did not,  by iteelf, account for the failure of the Institute's  early expectations; the Institute had not done all it  .. ould have done’ to attract the desired clientele. It  was pot the first period of grace asked for the Inati-  wie; Mr. Kellgrmann thought the Conference should  lay down a time -limit for its existence, while a re-  examination of ita work was carried out, taking into  scoount:. (1) the full extent of its utilisation by  Unesco in the Social Sciences programme (some indi-  cation of that might perhape be given to the Conference  at its current session); (2) the realistic prospects of  "outside" contracts; (3) the reorganization of the  institute, which was rather top-heavy; (4) a better  balance between the Institute's local and international  projects. ;
(33) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain) sald that, after what  previous speakers had said, he could be quite brief,  The Spanish delegation approved the project, being  convinced that it was designed to ensure the continuity    + give stability to the Institute and,’ in the  IV-10  of the work ‘of the Cologne Instituté for Social Sciences.  The delegation did nét consider, however: that the  matter should bé approached from the standpoint adopted  by somé earlier speakers, who wére in favour of a  kill-or-bure treatment: Thé important was to :  delega-  tion's opinion, three measures were necessary for that  purpose. ‘Thé first was to give the Institute an éseur-  ance of contimmity, so that it could perform its work;  the second was to éstablieh proper co-ordination be-  tween the Institute and the services of Unesco's Depart-  ment of Sociel Sciences; so as to integraié it com-  pletely into (te Social Sciences programme of the  Organisation; the third was to see that thé Inatitute  maintained appropriate talétions with other gimilar  institutes working in other parts of the world and more  particularly concerned with the study of the social im-  pact of modern industrial techniques, both in advanced  and in underdeveloped countries, ‘
(33), The CHAIRMAN thought the various proposals :  could be summarixed as follows: the Director-General  had proposed $30,000 a your; the Executive Board  had suggested $38,000; : and the German delegation had  indicated that it might propose a further increase. The  matter would be put to the vote at the next meeting.  The meeting rose at 1,10 p.m,  TENTH MEETING  “ 20 November 1956, at 3.30 p.m,  Chairman: Mrs, MYRDAL (Sweden)  CONSTITITION OF A WORKING PARTY TO EXAMINE THE  DESMAMLITY OF PREPARING INTERNATIONAL REGULATIONS  ON (A) EXCHANGES OF PUBLICATIONS, (B) STANDARDIZATION  OF EDUCATIONAL STATISTICS, AND (C) ‘NEIGHBOURING RIGHTS *  M COMMEXION With COPYRIONT | |
(1) The Commission agreed to, constitute the above  working party with the following membership: Den-  mark, France, Federal Republi¢ of Germany, Japan,  Malaya-Béitish Borneo Group, Norway, Poland,  Spiin, Switserlind, Union of Soviét Socialist Repub-  Mes, United States of America, Yugoslavia.  “lé 9.3 OF THE AGENDA: SOCIAL SCIENCES (continied)  thetemina 9C/5 and Adévnde and Corrigenda)      di Co-operation ‘with’ intérngtiofal social science  orgabizations and institutions (paragraphs 35-37)  foomtinued) |: co  @) Me. BERTRAND (France) reniarked that, as far
349  as the Cologne Institute for Social Sciences was .con-  cerned, things were by no means 50 simple as the  suggested, |. Gc PAREN The French delegation had no desire whatsoeyer for  in
0 the very. beginning  years to come. « MON BION : Te,  The anil dubventions which the Cologse atltyte  was to recéive under’ thoed proposals would atill be of  the same order of magnitude as in the past, I.  It had been found ini the past, however, thit the  major part of the Instibite's total budget went tô meét  its overheads. It had algo been found thet the Gout  of its publications was much too high ln proportion fo  the total funds placed af the Inilitute's disposal, ~~  Finally, It was undeniable that the instituté had not  Tes