CHAPTER X  COMMITTEE ON REPORTS |  OF MEMBER STATES  FIRST MEETING
30 October 1956, at 11 a, m,  OPENING OF THE MEETING
(1) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Directur-  General), on behalf of the Director-General,  welcomed the members of the ‘Committee who were  present. He ahnounced that the delegations which  were not yet represented were expected to arrive  soon, with the exception of the Costa Rican delegation,  whose Government had informed Uriesco that it could  not take part in the ninth session of the General  Conference,  Before the Coniinittee elected its officers, Mr.  Maheu thought that it might be useful to outline its  functions and terms of reference. He laid particular  emphasis on the fact that ita duties were different  from those it had had at previous sessions, and  appreciably wider, '  The questions with which the Comittee. had to  deal were those covered by items ‘11, 1 ‘and 17.2 of  the provisional agenda (document 9C/1). The  relevant documents were: 9C/4 (the e grey book con-  taining reports sent in before the closing date by 51  Member States), and 4 reports received later uen  would be distributed in roneved form; Annexes 1, II  and FI to docuinent 9C/4. The information contained  in Annexes | and I had been provided by tha govern-  ments of Member States; : Annex III way in jnalysis  of the information received, prepared t y th; Director-  General in pursuince of à resolution adopted by the  General Conference at its eighth session,  In addition, the Executive Board had proposed (cf.  document 9C/9 Addendum, paragraph 3) to rufer to  the Committee the consideration of item 9.8.4 of the  provisional agenda: Report on the structure and  methods of work of National Commissions (document
8C/PRG/21}. - oo  Lastly, a third task awaited the Committes.  Following a decision of the Economic and Social  Council in July-August 1956, the Director-General  proposed to include in the agendas of the Conference  an item 17.3; “Periodic Reports on Human Righta'  (ef. document 9C/11), That proposal would be  submittéd on the following day to the Executive Board,  which had first to establish the revised agenda of the  Conference. If the Conference agreed to the inclusion  of that item, the Committee on Reports of Member
14     States would oy to “éprstder” it first, In fact, if  Unesco decided to respond to the request of the  Economic and Social Council, the Organization w  have to ask Member States for information on the  observance of human rights in their respective  territories, and that would entail a change in the  structure and content, of their reports.  Considering the ‘change in the Committee's terms  of reference, Mr. Maheu thought that à brief outline  of the background and activities of the body would  perhaps be helpful. -  Reference was necessary to ‘Article VIO of the  Constitution of Unesco, which provided that each  Member State should report, periodically to the Orga-  nization (a) on its own action (laws, regulations and  activities of its national institutions) in the fields  within Unesco's competence and (b) on the effects  within its territory of Unesco's standardizing and  regulating action (action taken upon recommendations  sd conventions). ;  that legal basië, a tradition had grown’ up. In  ey the General Conference had decided to set up  the Committee to examine the ‘reports of Member  States. The effect of that measure had been to give  greater prominence to the reports, the number of  which had risen from 20 in 1850, to 51 for the ninth  session, .  When setting up the Committee the Conference gave  a new bits to the reports, amplifying their scope as  laid down in the Coustitution by asking Member States  to include information on their participation in the  implementation of the programme, Since 1850 that  had indeed been the main feature of the reports.  At its eighth session, on the Committee's suggestion,  the General Conference had gone even further, Under  resolution VI. 1,5, the Committes was placed on a  broader basis and given wider responsibilities, being  instructed to present to the Conference recommenda-  tions calculated to develop the participation of Member  States in the Organisation's activities. It was there-  fore required not only to analyse information  provided by Member States but also to formulate  directives for their future work,  In addition, the Conference had wished the  Committee to become a more important part of the  machinery for the conduct of the session's work. It   COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF KEINRER  was meeting early enough, at the current session, for  the Programme Commission to be able fo consider.  its report and make use of. it in deciding on the future  programme. ‘That programme should be based on a  precise assessment af the likelihood of its execution,  which, in turn, depended in the first instance on  Member States,” -  Mr, Mahéu went on to’ polit oust that the' Executive  : Board had recomended that, at the ninth déssion of  the ‘Confererice; a’ ‘Committee on Reports should be:  asked to study not only the reports of Membiér States  but also the report of the Director-General on the  activities of the Organization (cf; document 9C/9,  paragraph 19,2 and document 9C/7, Amex IT), The  idea behind that proposal wis that the Conferunce  should be in a position to review the activities of the  Organization both from the international angle (that  of the Director-General) and from the national angle  (that of Member States). The Committee would not  be called upon for the moment to pilot the Conference  in that way, but it would be as well for its members  to bear that idea in mind when formulating their  recommendations on the form to be given to Member  States' reports, so that the latter could easily be  compared with the Director-General's report.  Although ten meetings of the Committee before the  opening of the Conference and three others at the  beginning of the session seemed sufficient, the two  meetings provided for later might not be so. The  Chairman of the Committee, who wis ex officio a  member of thé General Committee, might ask for an  alteration in thé time-table. A first report would  have to be transmitted to the Programme Commission  two days before it began its work. The general report  which would be read at a plénary meeting of the  Conference was less urgent.  In conclusion, Mr: Msheu asked the Committee to  proceed, if it so desired, to the election of a Chairman,  Vice-Chairman (or two Vice-Chairmen) and a  Rapporteur.
(2) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United Staten of America)  expressed great appreciation of Mr. Maheu's lucid  and comprehensive statérient. In view of the import-  ant part which the Committee was called upori to play  in the work of the General Conference, Mr. MéCullough  proposed that the election of the Committee's officers  be postponed until & greater number’ of members were  present. Meanwhile, the meeting might continue on’  an informal basis, members putting such questions as  they wished to the representative of the Director-  General. The meeting could then bé adjourned until  the following morning.
(3) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) said that, at the stage reached, the Secret-  ariat could answer only factual questions, since the  Committee had not yet elected its officers.
(4) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) secoñded ‘  Mr, McCullough’ 8 proposal. If the meeting were to  continue, it could only be ‘on an informal basis. He  asked whether the Secretariat could give any assur-  ance as to the humber of delégates who would be  present the following day.
(5) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-
715     STATES  General) agreed that, in the circumstances, the  current m could qaly be nlortnal sithough  minutes would have to be taken,
(6) Mr, CHEVALIER (Secretariat) s aid that; apart  from the members present, he knew the name of ny  one other designated member, Mr. Hand Kjema of  the Danish delegation.  ci Mr, PERS (Ceylan) and Mr. UNAKOV (Union of  Soyiet Socialist Republics) seconded the proposal of  the United States delegate.
(8) The proposal to adjourn until 31 October was  adopted without discussion.
(9) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  noted that the Secretariat had said that the name of  only one of the absent members of the Committee was  so far known. He suggested that the representative  of the Director-General might get into touch with the  delegations concerned and ask them to appoint other  perscns to serve on the Committee, pending the  arrival of their official representatives. The  Committee would then be ina position to proceed with  ite work.
(10) Mr, CHEVALIER (Secretariat) explained that,  on his arrival, he had agked all the heads of delega-  tions by letter to let him know the names of the  delegates appointed to serve on the Committee. He  proposed to repeat his request verbally without delay.  {11) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General), being convinced that it would be very  difficult, if not irnpossible, for the Committee ;  meeting ad a whole; to study all thé reports: submitted  to it, made some suggestions regarding the procedure  to be adopted, Firstly, document 9C/4, with its  Annexes I and II and the Director-General's study  (Annex LI), could rot bé éxaminèd indépendently. >- -  They were to be.the subject of two reportai:a general  one to be presented to the plenary Conference; and a  special report, on the participation of Member States  in the execution of the programme, to the Programme  Commission. The latter should also deal with -  dociiinents '9C/PRG/21 and oc/11, and was more”  urgent than the first mentioned, - >  With regard to Annex [I Mr, ‘Msheu poisited out  that it was the first time that the Secretariat hid had  to prepare à ¢éritical-analysis of the répôrts instend  of à nerd summary, with the object of putting forward  constructive suggestions. ‘The work had beën done  cautiously, on the basis of the information provided  by Member States’ ir their reports alone, and  disregarding any information obtained from other:  sources, Annex III thersfore did not present an  exhaustive picture of Member’ States' participation -  in thé execution of the programme; it was simply a  basis for work; to be used freely. -  With regard to the Coinrhittee's procedure for thé  stidy of the reports, Mr. Mahei suggested that it -  should split up into three workuig parties of five -  members each, whith would study the reports on a  selective basis, confining themselves to certain  subjects of special importance at the moment. ’  Mr. Maheu mentioned as examples éducation for ~*~   x-2         snternaiiérial ubderstanding (à field id which action by  Member Siatés was énsent ), the ‘development, of  scientific research, the development of ‘social science  teaching, the question of "culture and international  understanding” , etc.” Each working party would then  appoint a Rapporteur ‘and the thrée Rapporteurs would  act às a kind of drafting committee.
(12) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) thought the procedure  ‘suggested had much to recommend it but, unfortunstely,  the Committee could not réach any decision until the  following day's meeting,    COMMITTEE ON -REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES
(13) Although Me; ‘Mshéu' 8 comments had been  provocative and Antérésting, ‘Mr, MéCULLOUGH-  (United States of America) agreed with the rr ;  of France that the Committee could not discuss them  until more of te members were present, 7
(14) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director : :  General) stated that the Committee would adjourn  until 31 October at 10,30 a.m. The Committee would  first have to elect its officers and then draw up its ;  time-table and decide on its method of work.  The meeting rose at 12,30 p.m,  SECOND MEETING
31 October 1956, at 10.30 a. m.  Chairman: Mr. ZIEGLER (Austria)  ELECTION OF THE CHAIRMAN, VICE-CRAIRMAN A D BAFPORTEUR
(1) Mr, MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) opened the meeting and called upon delegates  to elect the officers of the Committee.
(2) On the proposal of Mr. BRUNSVICK (France),  seconded by Mr. UNAKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics), Mr. Ziegler (Austria) was elected  Chairman,
(3) Mr. ZIEGLER (Austria) took the Chair and  thanked members for the honour they had conferred  upon him, He then called for nominations for the  office of Vice-Chairman.  (a) Où the proposal of Mr. UNAKOV (Unios of Soviet  ‘Socialist Republics), seconded by Mr, McCULLOUGH  (United States of America), Mr. Peiris (Ceylon) was  elected Vice-Chairman of the Committee.
(5) Mr: PEIRIS (Ceylon) then proposed that  . Mr. Brunsvick (France) be elected to the office of  Rapporteur of the Committee.  {6) That proposal was seconded by Mr. KAN TIOURN  (Cambodia) and adopted unanimously.  PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF THE compres WORK  (n In reply to a question from Me, M cCULLOUGH  (Utited States of America), Mr, MAHEU. (Representa-  tive of the Director-General) explained that, because  of the practical difficulties of providing interpretation  services, and in order to avoid breaking up the -  Committee 's work too much, it would be better to set  up only two working parties instead of the three he  had proposed the previous day. The working parties    ne  ‘  =  - would be responsible for ‘preparing the ground for the  Committee, und would take no decisions.  Answering a second question from Mr.. McCullough,  Mr, Maheu defined the Committee's ‘competency: it  was required to consider the extent to which Member,  States were taking part in the implementation of the  programme or, in other wordé: (1) what were the  interests of Member States; (2) means of informing ‘  the Secretariat of their interests; (3) the extent of  their participation; and (4) the machinery for their  participation, It would communicate its findings to .  the Programme Commission in the form of a written  general report which could be supplemented by oral  statements by the Rapporteur during the discussion of  certain sections of the programme,
(8) Mr, "BRUNSVICK (France). (Rapparteur) added .  that the Committee was. also expected to deriye from  the reports some ides of what could be. asked of  Member States and, in particular, was to consider ‘  why certain resolutions Anvolving heavy responsibili-  ties for the Organization were not mentioned in the  reports of Member States, It was its business to ’  guide the discussions on the technicalities of the  execution of certain projects, connected with the  structure of National Commissions, and to work out  suggestions regarding methods, ete. .
(9) Mr. ‘McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  supported the proposal of the French delegate,  although he felt that the Committee shouts not be too’  ambitious at its curréut session. ould be wiser  perhaps to work towards the aims où ined by  Mr. Brunsvick in the hope that the reports of Membér  States and the report of the Director- General would  ,run on more parallel lines in the future, thus facill-  tating a comparative analysis. He ‘agreed that the  Programme Commission would find it useful to receive