30 November 1956, at 3.30 p.m.  President: Mr. SPILHAUS (United States of America)  Protection of culturel property in the event of armed cou-  . flict (continued) . . .  Procedure to be adopted  solution .  Report of the Committee on Reports of Member  Decision on the place of the tenth session of the General  Conference . , . . .  Inclusion ¢f an item in  CONTENTS  Cee sha ee. 226  | for the examination of the budget  adjustments and the preparation of the Appropriation Re-  LL ee eee PRT X11  States . . 231
1 44 4 4 46 4 1 ee 0 4 ea 234  e agenda of the tenth session: "Ap-  ee 0 1 4 68 + 6 0 = 235 pointment of a Director-General"  PROTECTION OF CULTURAL PROPERTY IN THE  EVENT OF ARMED CONFLICT (continued)
(1) The PRESIDENT: Ladies and gentlemen, I call  upon the delegate of the United Kingdom who has  requested to speak.
(2) Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom): Mr.  President, fellow delegates, I shall not detain the  Conference for more than a moment or two, but 1  wish to take the opportunity of meking clear the  position of the United Kingdom on this matter.  The United Kingdom accepts the amendments  suggested by thé delegations of Belgium, Brazil,  Ecuador, France and Italy to paragraphs (3), (4) end
(5) of the draft resolution submitted by Egypt. Though  we have some reservations in regard to the signifi-  cance of paragraph (6); they are not insuperable, and  we ventre to believe that our reservation is shared  by other members of the Conference. This paragraph  "invites the States concerned which are not yet  parties to The Hague Convention to make declarations  giving undertakings to that effect, in accordance with  Article 18 of the said Convention. " Our difficulty is  this, and it is shared by other Member States - by  the majority, I venture to think, of those prasent.  Most of us have either, as far as our govarnmonts  sre concerned, not yet had time to give consideration  to the Convention, or we are in piocess of doing so.  And thet being the case, it is very difficult to call  upon us immediately to make declarations. As far  as Her Majenty's Government of the United Kingdom  is concerned, the facts are as announced in Parlia-  ment four days igo; that we are now actively  examining the termi of The Hague Convention, and  with the examination of the Convention goes, by  definition, the examination of Article 18. We theré-  fore, Mr. President, would vots for this, on the  understanding that the invitation is to the States
226  concerned which are not yet parties to The Hague  Convention, as soon as possible to make these  declarations; and I understand that that is the  meaning which the Secretariat also attaches to that  clause.  With that statement, Sir, I hope I have helped the  Conference to see what the position of the United  Kingdom ie.
(3) The PRESIDENT: Before we proceed to the  vote, 1 think I might attempt to explain the situation  as! see it now. There has been an excellent spirit  of meeting on these resolutions, and the differences  that remain seem to the Chair to be, indeed, quite  small. One might even have hoped that these small  differences could have been resolved, so that this  final combined resoluiiva could have been adopted  unanimously, Co, |  As I understand the matter at the present time,  paragraphs (1) and (2) of document 9C/DR/82 (Rév.)  have been agreed upon. The delegate of Egypt - |  agreed to accept a rewarding in accordance with the  recent change in paragraph (3). In paragraph (4)  there are two versions. In paragraph (5) there ire  two versions. Paragraph (6) is agreed upon, and  the delegate of France has accepted the retentidn of  the original paragraph (7). So that it would seem  that we would need to vote only on paragraphe (4),
(5) and (7), or actually, only on (4) and (5) - comiiting  consideration of (7), as this has been agreed upou  for retention.  I call upon the delegate of France.  The delegate of France suggests that the meeting  be suspended for 10 minutes. Does anyone support  that? It is supported, and agreed.  The meeting will reconvene in 10 minutes.  (The meeting was suspended for 10 minutes.)   PLENARY
(6) The PRESIDENT: I call upon the delegate of  Jape.  ® Me, HAGUIWARA (Japan) (Translation from ‘the  French): Mr, President and fellow delegates, 1: ..  followed this morning's discussions with close atten-  tion; and have been much impressed by the dispas-  sicnate and lofty tone, worthy of Unesco, which has :  characterized them throughout . I noted that almost  all speakers revealed special anxiety concerning the  position in the Middle East, together with a more general  snxiety for other parts of the world. Our task, it seems  to me, must be to express both these anxieties - the  particular and the general - in an appropriate form,  acceptable to all delegations; if we are able to adopt  a resolution unanimously, our.appéal will carry all the  more force throughout the world. For this reason, I  should like to propose an amendment to the amendment  presented by Belgium, - Brasil, - Ecuador, France .  and Taly. In paragraph {4) of ‘document 9C/DR/129 (Rev. ),  which runs "considering that, on account of recent  sod current events in certain regions of the world ..' *,
1 propose that the words “in certain regions of the  world" be replaced by.", .. Jn the Middle East and  other regions of the world, " This would render the,  feeling of the Conference more exactly, since it makes  special mention of the Middle East, while clearly in-  dicating that our concern is not limited to that region.  I should like to submit this amendment to the five  countries which sponsored the proposed amendment,  and I should also like to ask the delegate of Egypt  whether he would be prepared to accept the amendment  _submitted by the five countries, with the alteration I  have just suggested. This morning, qur good friend,  Mr. Awad, said we should speak of "Egyptian cranges"  and not of eitrus fruits in general," and my proposal  amounts to saying "Egyptian oranges and citrus fruits  in general”, I think this phrase may be acceptable  to us all,
(8) The PRESIDENT: I now call upon the delegate  of Pakistan,
(0 Mr, SHARIF (Pakistan); Mr. President, I have  great pleasure in seconding the’ amendment’ moved by  my distinguished colleague, Ambassador Haguiwara of  Japan, ‘1 do not wish to add to what he has stated so  admirably in support of his amendment. | would  merely say this: that Unesco is dedicated to the ,  cause of peace, to the promotion of goodwill among  natjons. - It can do this best by promoting goodwill  among tie delegations, and I do sincerely hope that  the French delegetion and the Egyptian delegation will  accept this amendment,
(8) _ “The PRESIDENT: 1 call upon the e delegate of  ; France.  ©) Mi, LAPIE (France) (Translatic from, the  French); Mr. President and fellow, elegates, this  moraing I spoke in a spirit of conciliation ‘which | |  feel 1 have already demonstrated on behalf of the  French delegation, .by accepting the Egyptian dele-  e's proposal with regard to paragraph (7). The  te of Egypt, for his part, made a concession to  ; u regarding paragraph (2). This justified great  Bopes of closer agreement. I think we must thank
227  MEETINGS 11-20  . Ambassador Haguiwara of Japan;. who spoke just now,  for 7inding during the luncheon interval which is  sométimes useful (not only for absorbing nourishment,  but for intellectual negotiations) a formula which  brings agreement still closer; ‘and I welcome, also,  this opportunity of thanking the delegate of Pakistan,  who has just seconded the motion put forward by the  delegate of Japan, .  Ladies and gentlemen; you will remember. that [  short time ago I asked for the suspension of the meet-  ing. You know what happens on such occasions; we  always get together; sometimes we reach sgrequnent  and sometimes we do not. : As the meeting was not  suspended for very long, you will not be surprised  to hear that there was no difference of opinion among  the sponsors of the motion with which we are con-  cerned. [thus have the pleasure of informing you:  that the co-signatories of the French motion < the  delegates of Belgium, Brazil, Ecuador and Italy -  have authorized me to announce that we gladly agree  to the form of words proposed by the delegate of  Japan - that is, to the insertion, after the words’  “current ovents", of the words "in the Middle East",  and the substitution of "and in other regions of the  world" for “in certain regions of the world", Para-  graph (4) would then run as follows: .‘’Considering  that, on account of recent and current events in the  Middle East and in other regions of the world, monu-  ments and other cultural property of great value, the  destruction of which would be a serious loss to the  cultural heritage of the world, are in danger".  Paragraph (5) would thus remain unchanged; we  have no further amendment to request, since we  asked in our motion that "the region in question" be  altered tothe regions in question,"  So, ladies and gentlemen, this is where we now  stand: I hope, and [ recommend, that the plenary  meeting as a whole will agree to follow us. : It, should  be remembered that, since the opening of this session,  very great progress has been made towards friend-  ship and mutual understanding; that still further pro-  gress has been made today; and that, if the Conference  were to terminate in this atmosphere of unanimity, it  would stand as à great success, and one which would  perhaps entitle the present session of Unesco to be  held up, modestly, as an example to other inter-  national organizations, in which we should be glad to  see the same spirit of understanding, the same love.  of pence, leading to similar results,  Such are the circumstunces in which, on behalf of  my co-signatories, I accept the proposal just made  by the delegate of Japan, Thank you, Mr. President -  and thank you, too, for allowing us to suspend the  meeting, with the very useful results I have described.
(10) The PRESIDENT: The delegate of Egypt.
(11) Mr. AWAD MOHAMMED (Egypt): Mr, President,  fellow delegates, as 1 sald in my previous remarks,
1 was ‘extremely happy to see that the French dele-  gation had consented to retain paragraph a). “I must  remind you = - those of you who have been here since  the beginning when 1 made my address - that in my.  second intervention I ‘made a special reference to the  fact that the cultural relations between France and  Egypt go back over something like 120 years. They  have been extremely close, and this interruption is
11-20  one of the greatest disasters in the world of cultural  relations, - * May we hope, even in these dark moments,  that those relations may ‘some day be renewed, and that  we shall have more pleasant things to remember about  Fronco-Egyptian cultural relations,  Weedless to say, Mr, President, ! am very happy  that thére is a possibility of arriving at a unanimous  decision - I hope it will be a unanimous decision -  with regard to the document before us, 1 must thank  my friend Ambassador Haguiwara who, although he  comes from the Far East, has managed to bring about  à rapprochement between the Middle East and Europe,  to bring us closer together, He is a great man for his  spirit of compromise, which I enjoyéd during my  association with him as a member of the Executive  Board. The Egyptian delegation is very happy at his  intervention, and, for the sake of the unanimity which  we hope to have on the present resolution, we cer-  tainly accept the amendment which has been suggested  by Japan.
(12) The PRESIDENT: I have one more speaker on  say list, and will then declare the debate closed. I  call upon the delegate of Israel.
(13) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel): Mr. President,‘ fellow  delegates, - 1 do not believe very much in explaining  votes after they are cast, but I will nevertheless ex-  plain briefly how my delegétion is going to vote. The  Israell delegation is in agréement with the general  spirit of the resolution proposed, which has been amen-  ded and reamended, and is prepared to vote for seven  of its eight paragraphs, but it will vote against the  whole resolution because it includes, in paragraph (7),  references to a specific place. The Greek resolution  we adopted this morning, for instance, although the  speakers on it spoke at considerable length about  Britain, Cyprus and Greece; rmade no mention or  reference to that in the resolution adopted by the Con-  ference, The Israeli delegation feels that the Con-  ference should treat the present resolution in the  same manrér.
1 wish, however, to show the Confei ence that my  Government is in full agreément with the general idea  of the résolution. But may I add one’ interesting point  of information for the benefit of the delegates,’ ‘most of  whom, ! suspect, must'now have heard for thé first  time in their lives about the Monastery of Saint . ;  Catherine. This Monastery has some’ interésting ’  manuséripts of some importance to scholars of he  Bible. , Oür scholars in Israel have been trying for  a long time to obtain photographic copies of these docu-  ments, for the place was inaccessible - partly for  political réasons’and also because geographiéél access  is very. difficult. - Photographic copies of these docu-  ments are not available in Egypt; and our Béholats  finally . found such photographic copies at the Library  of Coriÿress in Washington, ‘quitè a while ago: The  Egyptian delegate emphasized this morning, quite ’  rightly, that he'knew of no damage to this’ Monastery,  and 1 appreciate his wisdom in ‘excluding the s name of  Israél from the revised text of his résolution, He  may safely assuré his Government, jüst as the Con-  ferérice may | resi assured, that the cultural property  of thé Saint Catherine Monastery is well protected'and  will be so for the very short time before the withdrawal of  our forces from the peninsula of Sinai.
(14) The PRESIDENT]. I believe, from the fine tone  of the discussion this afternoon, that I am interpret;  ing the will of the Conference directly when I say that  we may proceed to a vote on this resolution, as amen-  ded by the honourable delegate of Japan, seconded by  Pakistan, as a whole.  I call upoii the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socle  list Republics.
(1) "Mr, KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Sociallst Rei  lics) (Translation from the Russian); Mr: President,  fellow delegates, the Soviet delegation pays tribute :  to the efforts made by several speakers to find a'com-  promise wording which would reflect our concern for  cultural’ property. '  In this sense, ‘we think the proposal put forward by  Ambassador Hogiiwara, who drew the attention of -  the Conference to the fact that our work is‘concerned  with and ‘based on the Egyptian proposal and the pro:  blems reléting tô the protection of the cultural tréa-  sures of the Middle Fast, is both good and interesting,  We consider Ambassador. Haguiwara's proposed addi-  tion to'the resolution very useful but, ‘as 0 often .’  happens wheiï work is being done hurriedly, and when  even very excellént ‘and valuable ideas or, a prds' are  being introduced into à text already drafted, we have  to consider’ the question of the logic of the remain  parts of the original text, which is not always in har-  mony with thé words introduced and may give risè té  difficulties in thé reading and interpretation of the text.  It seems to me that after we have amended the para-  graph under discussion along the lines suggested - whic  will be a definite improvement of the text - the second  part will remain somewhat obscure, because it speaks  of recert and current events, referring to the Middle  East and other regions of the wérld in such a way that  it might be thought that absolutely comparable events  are taking place both in the Middle East and elsewhere,  This is not, of course, the case, and we all know that  that the present events in the Middle Fast are of a  quite defifiité nature, while no similar events have  taker. place elsewhere, We should not, thereforé,  run the risk of leaving a serious inaccuracy in the  second part ‘of this resolution.  Viheñ two or three new words are inserted at the  beginning of a text, it is sometimes ‘exiremelÿ difficult  to realize immediately the effect on thé remainder’ o  the text, "There are certain rules of agreement,”  grammatical rulés, and I therefore think it would bé  expedient to organize our work so that some “of the  delégations concerned might have an ‘opportunity of  studying this paragraph and the amendment té the  amendment to the Egyptian draft resolution, 5°  When the paragraph in question has been put into  final form, it can be put to the vote, but its present  wording gives rise to great confusion owing to ‘the  looseness of the term "events and to the assertion  that events are occurring and continuing to deyelop  both in the Middle East and elséwhére,’ when thé  significance of those events is entirely different.  This matter has already béen discussed more than  once but I am at a loss to find a formula allowing us  to avoid this ambiguily. It is, of course, ‘essential  to avoid any ambiguity as, otherwise, we should hive  to insert into the paragraph a definition of the different  significance of different events, thus making the pars-  graph extremely unwieldy and related neither to the   PLENARY  tbeme of our Conference nor to the Egyptian delega-  tion's ‘draft resolution, «Mr. President, we have not  mee made use of our righ} to suspend a meeting and  perhaps it is not necessary to'do so now, since there  are still many items on the agenda of the plenary  meeting, Nevertheless 1 should like to propose that  the discussion on this question be postponed so that,  before a vote is taken, the delegations concerned can  iry to work out a more detailed text, to find an agreed  wording on which all the delegations could then vote.  We should not théreby be losing any time, since the  agenda of the plenary meeting still inclides a whole  series of important itéms, and we could, meanwhile,  proceed with the discussion of various other questions.
(16). The PRESIDENT: As I interpret the intervention  of the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,  he has essentially rot asked for an adjournment of the  debate but for a postponement of the vote, while we dis-  cuss other matters,  First, I would like to ask whether this proposal to  adjourn the vote is supported, or what the will of the  Conference js in this matter, especially as we have  sgreement between those who have proposed the two  resolutions which have now been reconciled.  The proposal to adjourn the vote pending the discus-  ‘ sion of other rnatters is supported. Is there any objec-  tion to postponing the vote ?- ’
1 call upon the delegate of Haiti.
(17) Mr, LIAUTAUD (Haiti) (Translation from the  French): Mr, President and féllow delegates, I should  like to state very briefly that the delegation of Haiti  does not feel justified in supporting the proposal just  made for another adjournment of the debate. We have  had the gratification of finding that agreement could be  reached on a question which might have given rise to  political discussions alien to the sober and encouraging  atmosphere of our meeting, and one which has a par-  ticular bearing on the ideals of Unesco - the question  of the protection of the cultural heritage of the world.  The various proposals, by enlightening our assembly,  raty result In a unanimous vote, which would show that  Unesco can rise above particilar circumstances and  considerations, disregarding everything save its true  purpose - the protection, throughout the world, of our  heritage and our cultural treasures. But a proposal  has iow been made for‘ a fuithér adjournment - not,  perhaps, ‘of the meeting,‘ but at least of the discussion -  with a view to finding a fresh formula, differing from  that submitted by His Excellency the Japanese Am-  bassador, which in my opinion was particularly tel-  citous, The speaker who preceded me thought that  the proposed form of words, which I will now read  again - "Considering that, on account of recent and  current events in the Middle Fast and in other regions  of the world" - might be taken to méan that the same  events, of precisely the same natire and perhaps in-  volving the same actors, are faking place in other  parts of the world at the satné tinie a& in the Middle  Fast. Ifeel, on'the contrary, that this formula is  sufficiently comprehensive to make it superfluous for  us to attemipt to replace it by some ‘other which, under  colour ‘of striving for greater exsctitude might, on the  ‘contrary, involve mention of certain other regions of  the world end render it difficult for us to find, in the  cultural sphere, a proposal, a formula, capable of
228  MEETINGS 1-20  application to all cases, I therefore propose that,  since we are all sufficlently clear on the point, the  Conference proceed immediately to vote.
(18) The PRESIDENT; I would like to draw the atten-  tion of the Conference to Rule 75 of the Rules of Pro-  cedure, which deals with adjournment of the debate,  and in which it is laid down that one speaker may speak  in favour and one against.  We have heard one speaker in favour of the adjourn-  ment of the vote, which is in essence the last point  of debate, We have had one speaker against such  a move to postpone the vote, [therefore declare  the discussion closed and would like to ask the Con-  ference to vote for or against the proposal of the  delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics for  the postponement of the vote,  Will those in favour of postponing the vote on this  issue until a later date, please raise their hands?  Those delegates who are against the postponement of  the vote, please raise their hands? - Will those who  wish to record "Abstentions" please raise their hands?  The result of the vote is: for postponement: 12;  against: 38; abstentions: 6.  The motion is defeated,  We will now pass immediately to a vote on the  amended compromise resolution, as proposed by  the honourable delegate of Japan.  I call upon the delegate of Rumania.
(19) Mr. SILARD (Rumania): Mr. President, Jadies  and gentlemen, on behalf of the Rumanian delegation,
1 propose suspension of the meeting for ten minutes,  We have not received the compromise proposal in  written form; many of the delegations could not  follow the text; besides this, the honourable delegate  of the Soviet Union drew the attention of this meeting  in his speecii to the fact that various paragraphs are  not in full harmony. We therefore think that, by sus-  pending the meeting for ten minutes and analysing this  matter more closely, we may be able to take a unani-  mous vote,
(20) The PRESIDENT! Is there support for the pro-  posal to suspend the meeting for ten minutes so that  the text may be clarified to all concerned ?  Seconded from the floor.  I would suggest from the Chair that, prior to sus-  pension, we ask the Secretary to read the full text,  In that way, we may get the full text before all the  delegations and then, with your consent, suspend for  ten minutes and réconvene. ls there any objection  to this procedure ? If there is no objéction I will ask  the Secretary now to read and explain the full text  of the resolution,
(21) Mr, MONTAGNIER (Secietary of the Conference)  (Translation from the French): ‘Mr. President, I  would ask delegates to turn toresolution 9C/DR/82 (Rev.)  The first two paragraphs of the preamble have been  unanimously #ecepted, - 1 will read these:-
(1) Considering that, under its Constitution, the  Organization is required to assure the conservation  and protection of the world's inheritance of books,  works of art und monuments of history and science,  ‘(2) Considering that a Convention for the Protection  of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict
11-20 PLENARY MEETINGS  was adopted by the international conference convened  by Unesco, which met at The Hague from 21 April to
14 May 1954; and that the ‘aforesaid Convention came  into force on 7 August 1956,
(3) (Here theré has been à slight amendment, and  the revised text should read as follows):  Considering that to date very few States have rati-  fied The Hague Convention,
(4) (In view of the Japanese amendment and of  document 9C/DR/129 (Rev.), this paragraph should  read as follows);  Considering that, on account of recent and current  events in the Middle East and in other regions of the  world, monuments and other cultural property of great  value, the destruction of which would be a serious loss  to the cultural heritage of the world, are in danger,"  We then come to the operative provisions of the  resolution;  "(5) Expresses the hope that all the necessary  measures will be taken as soon as possible by the  governments of the States concerned to ensure protec-  tion of and respect for the cultural property situated  in the regions in question,"
(6) (No change has been proposed)  "Invites the States concerned which are not yet  parties to The Hague Convention to make déclarations  giving undertakings to that effect, in accordance with  Article 18 of the said Convention, "!
(7) (Third paragraph of the operative provisions);  "Draws special attention to the sanctity and sacred-  ness of the Monastery of Saint Catherine in Sinai, which  contains manuscripts and treasures of great historical  and artistic interest, which has always enjoyed com-  plete protection in time of war and peace, and which  must not be touched or tampered with in any way  whatsoever.’  Last paragraph, no. 8 in document 9C/DR/82(Rev.):  "Instructs the Director-General to communicate the  text of the present resolution forthwith to the States  concerned."
(22) The PRESIDENT: In conformity with the last  two decisions made, after the ten minutes' recess we  will immediately proceed to the vote on the resolution  as it has been presented to you by the Secretary, 1  declare a recess of ten minutes.  (The meeting was suspended for 10 minutes)
(23) The PRESIDENT: It is my understanding that,  as à result of this ten minutes! recess, a request’  has been made by the delegations that, without change  to the text which was read to you before the recess,  the voting be taken paragraph by paragraph. This is  in accordance with the suggestion that was made from  the Chair earlier and indeed is in accordance with  Rule 85 of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, if  there is no objection, we will proceed to the vote im-  mediately, paragraph by paragraph.  (The votes were taken by a show of hands.)
(24) The PRESIDENT; Parsgraphs (ni (2), (3), (5).
(6) and (8) are adopted unanimously, Paragraph (4)  is adopted by 48 votes in favour, 0 against, with 8  abstentions. Paragraph (7) is adopted by 47 votes  in favour, 1 against, with 7 abstentions.
230     We will now proceed to vote on the document as a  whole. Those in favour ? Those against ? Abstentions  The resolution is carried as a whole by 55 votes in  favour; 0 against; and 1 abstention,  We will pass on to the next resolution.  I call upon the delegate of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics.
(25) Mr, KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Re- ;  publics) (Translation from the Russian): Mr. Presl-  dent and fellow delegates,’ I would like to explain the  reasons for the yote of the Soviet delegation. . In the  voting paragraph by paragraph we voted in favour,  except on paragraph (4), where our delegation ab-  stained because, as 1 said before, that paragraph is  not quite correctly worded at the end, We were, w-  fortunately, deprived of the opportunity of making :  certain possibly quite minor additions or amendments  to that paragraph, Nevertheless, the Soviet delaga-  tion voted for the resolution as a whole because of  our belief that it is a useful document, since it in-  cludes an expression of our serious anxiety and con-  cern about the events in the Middle East and the dan-  gers threatening the cultural treasures of Egypt. - Ia  that sense we voted in favour of the resolution because  we believe that the present session of the General Con-  ference can help Egypt and the Egyptian people in their  struggle for national sovereignty and independence and  for the preservation of the treasures of a great and  age-old culture,  Thank you, Mr. President.
(26) The PRESIDENT: i call upon the delegate of  Bulgaria.
(27) Mr, PETROV (Bulgaria) (Translation from the  Russian): Mr..President and fellow delegates, the,  Bulgarian delegation voted for the resolution and ab-  stained only on paragreph (4), for the following  reasons: the new wording of this paragraph has al-  tered it so that it no longer shows clearly whether  its aim is to enable us to consider the new situation,  Notwithstanding this situation, the Bulgarian delega-  tion voted foi the resolution as a whole because we  believe it provides a possibility of safeguarding the  treasures which are to be found at present on Egyp-  tian territory, We therefore voted for the resolution  in its entirety, with the exception of paragraph (4).  I have made this statement on behalf of the delege-  tion of Bulgaria. Thank you, Mr. President.
(28) The PRESIDENT: I call upon the delegate of  Italy.
(29) Mr, VERONESE (Italy) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, and fellow delegates, I am  not fond of the practice of explaining our reasons for  voting, but as certain statements have been made, 1  rise to say, simply,. that I voted for the ‘amendments  we proposed, and for the resolution as a whole, pre-  cisely because they. referred not only to the Middle -  East and Egypt, but also to other regions of the world  and because the. assembly was very well aware which  other regions of the world were meant, as those wher  cultural property is in particular danger, Moreover  the delegate of the Soviet Union himself referred  clearly, this morning, to the damage done to the   PLENARY MEETINGS  cultural heritage in those other regions of the world,  That is the explanation of my vote, gentlemen,  FROCEDURE TO BE ADOPTED FOR THE EXAMINATION OF TRE  BUDGET ADJUSTMENTS AND THE PREPARATION OF THE  APPROPRIATION SESOLUTION
(30) The PRESIDENT} We now proceed to the next  item, It concerns the procedure to be adopted for  the éxemination of the budget adjustments and the’  préparation of an Appropriation Resolution (document
8C/21 and document 9C/9). This matter was con-  sidered by the Executive Board and subsequently by  the General Commitiee, The General Committee saw  fit to make certain changes in the Board's recom-  mendations. ' These changes ! may summarize  very briefly as being three in number: the Gene-  ral Committee, in document 9C/21, recommends  a single committee. Secondly, it recommends  that this committee consist of 17 persons, made  up as follows; the Chairman of the Programme Com-  mission and the Rapporteur of the Programme Com-  mission; the Chairman of the Administrative Commis-  sion and the Rapporteur of the Administrative Com-  mission; the Chairman of the Programme Commission  of the Executive Board; the Chairman of the Finance  Commission of the Executive Board; and representa-  tives of the following Member States: Brazil, -Egypt,  France, India, Indonesia, Japan, Liberia, Mexico,  Poland, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United  Siates of America. The third change is that this com-  mittee shall not only consider budgetary implications  but shall also prepare a draft resolution on Appropria-  tions. 1 will ask the Secretary to explain further de-  tails and the time-table that will result from these re-  commendations of the General Committee.
(81) Mr, MONTAGNIER {Secretary of the Conference)  (Translation from the French); Mr. President, I have  very little to add to what you have said regarding the  time-teble of work of the General Conference for the  last few days of the session. There is one small  change, which seems to us inevitable, in connexion  with paragraph 3 of document 9C/21 (page 2); this is,  that the Programme Commission will probably not com-  plete its work tomorrow morning but will very likely  have to meet in the afternoon.
(32) The PRESIDENT: Is the Conference willing to  accept this document as & whole, with the amendment  that the Secretary has just reported ? If there is n»  objection, 1 will take it that this document is accepied  toto,  The next item on the agenda is the Report of the Com-  mittee on Reports of Member States, and I would like  to call upon the Rapporteur of that Committee, Mr,  ir to present his Report. It is document
19,  REPORT OF TRE COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES ~
(39) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur of the  Commiitee on Reports of Member States) (Translation  from the French): Mr, President, ladies and gentle-  men, as Rapporteur of the Committee on Reports of
23i     I-20  Member States, I havé the honour to submit that  Cominittee's report for your approval, or rather the  three last parts of that réport.- The Cominittee met
13 times, between 30 October and 22 November, ‘and  considered ‘items 17,1, 17,2,-17,3, and 9.8, 3 of the  agenda of the General Conférence, together with part  of item 19, which deals with the organisation and - -  methods of work of thé General Conference, ' Aé you  know, however, the General Conference, at its eighth  session, altered and to some extent widened the terns  of reference of this Committee, ‘ Coñséquéntly, - thé  Committee was asked to present observations to the  Programme Commission on the part played by Member  States in the planning and execution of Unesco's pro-  gramme, These observations are comprised in the  first and second paris of the report, dealing with items
17.1 and 9.8, 3 of our agenda,’ and were subraitted,  as document 8C/PRG/2, to the Programme Commission  which, as you know, accepted them as a whole, - They  will there/ore be submitted to you in tho report of the  Programme Commission itself, That is why document
8C/19, now before you,’ contains only parts IL, 1V and  V of the report, though that report will naturally be  published in full in the Proceedings of the General  Conference. Under the heading III - "Item 17.3 of  the Agenda: Periodic reports on Human Rights, in  accordance with resolution 624 B (XXII) of the Econo-  mic and Social Council" - you will firid the text of a  recommendation by the Committee on Reports of  Mernber States, -This deals with the problem result-  ing from resolution 624 B (XXII), adopted by the  Economic and Social Council at its twenty-second  session, in which the Spécialized Agencies are in-  vited "in respect of rights coming within their purview,  to transmit to the Secretary-General, every three  years,- a report on a topical basis, summarizing the  information which they have received from their  Member States Juring'‘the preceding three years and  to co-operate in the full realization of the aim set  forth ia this resolution", :  The Committee heard a statement on this point  from Mr, Martin Hill, representative of the United  Nations, who explained that the Secrétary-General's  first report on this subject, cavering the years 1954,
1955 and 1956, was to be presented to the Commission  on Human Rights during the first half of 1958, and that  the reports of the Specialized Agencies should there-  fore reach the Secretary-General in the third quarter  of 1957. .  The Committee felt that the Director-General could  not make use of the material contained. in the reports  of Member States for th: years 1954 and 1866 as it  stood, since those reports had not been drawn up to  illustrate progress achieved ir the field of Human  Rights, but to show the part played by Membér States  in Unesco's progremme as a whole. It seemed to  the Committee that it was for Member States them-  selves to point out to the Director-General the mate-  rial in the reports which might be considered relevant,  and on occasion to supply additional information on  the implementation of human rights, That is the  tenor of the reaolution given on page 2 of document
9C/19, which authorizes the Director-General, under  the conditions set out hereafter, to co-operate actively  with the Secretary-General of the United Nations and  the Commission on Human Rights, in accordance with  the request mude to the Specislized Agencies by the
11-20 PLENARY MEETINGS  Economic and Social Council (Resolution 624 B (XXII)  concerning the pericdic reports which Member States  are invited to dray; up on "devejopments and the pro-  gress achieved i i'-in the field of human rights",  You will see that paragraph 8 specifies the rights  which come within the sphere of Unesco - those men-  tioned in Articles 19, 26 and 27 of the Declaration of  Human Rights.  Paragraph 9 states that these reports are to coyer  the years 1954, 1955 and 1956, and that, in respect  of the years 1954 and 1955, Member States "may refer  to the information contained in the reports sent by  them to Unesco in accordance with the provisions of  the Constitution and the resolutions of the General  Conference",  It was also decided, and this is set forth in para-  graph 10, that."in order to assist Member States to  draw up these reports, and to facilitate their com-  parison, the Director-General shall suggest to Member  States a plan previously approved by the Executive  Board",  Paragraph. 11 runs as follows: “The Director-Gen-  eral shall transmit to the Secretary-General of the -  United Nations; for the Commission on Human Rights,  an analysis of the reports sent in by Member States;  this analysis shall first be submitted for approval to  the Executive Board, except in case of urgency, when  the Executive Board may authorize the Director-  General to forward his report direct.! This meets  the possible situation during the first period, for if  the datelines at present fixed are maintained, it will  be difficult to follow the normal procedure.  Paragraph 12 states that "the reports of Member  States on developments and the progress achieved in  the field of human rights during 1255 shall be included  in the volume containing the i-eports of Member States  for the tenth session of the General Conference." You  will see, incidentally. that we have done our, best to  include this section in the plan for the reports them-  selves.  I would now iike to call your attention to paragraph  (f) of the resolution; You will see that the Commit-  tee, which did not wish to lay down hard and fast  rules or what is still a new question, proposes that  the General Conférence, at its tenth session, "shall  consider, ‘in the light of this initial experiment, the  content, form and frequency of future reports on  auman rights and, in particular, the way in which  those reports could be linked with the reports presen-  . ted every two years to the General Conference." The  members of the Committee were unanimous in trying  to redace the number of reports and to concentrate  the information to be given: -  Part IV of the’ Committee's report deals with item
17. 2 of the agenda: ."Recommendation on the form  and content of the reports to be presented to the  General Conference at its tenth session’. The text  of this draft resolution begina at paragraph 18, which  states that "the reports on the activities of the Orguni-  zation should permit of an overall view of the execu-  tion of the programme by Member States and by the  Secretariat (and) an assessment of the Organization's  work during the period under review". This point  . of view received unanimous support during the Com-  mittee's discussions, as did the idea "that better co-  . ordination should be established between the reports  of the Director-General and those of Member States."
232     Member States are therefore invited, in paragraph ,
18, "to furnish primarily, and as far as possible,  information on:  (a) The main features of their collaboration with  Unesco;  (b) The action taken ¢ on the recommendations’ ang  conventions adopted by the Genéral Conference (Con-  stitution, Article VIII) or by intergovernmental con-  ferences convened in pursuance of resolutions adopted  by the General Conference; .  (c) Laws, regulations and statistics relating to  their institutions aud activities in the spheres of edu-  cation, science and culture;  (d) The measures taken to establish, develop or  assist the National Commission or other national co-  operating bodies, together with an account of the  principal activities of such Commission or hodies;,  (e) The measures taken to associate more closely  in Unesco's activities all other bodies, institutions  or appropriate associations", .  In paragraph (f), which tekes into account the deci-  sions of the Programme Commission, the Commitice  proposes that the reports of Member States include  information on "the measures taken by Member States:  (i) To comply with the resolutions of the General  Conference inviting action by Member States;  (ii) To participate in the execution of major projects;  (iil) To contribute to the implementation of resolu:  tions which the General Conference, on the recom-  mendation of the Programme Commission, has in-  formed the Director-General should be the subject  of a work plan for Member States".  Here I would like to point out that this suggestion  by the Commitiee on Reports of Member States was  accepted by the Programme Commission, in agree-  ment with the Director-General, and that that Com-  mission is to put forward a certain number of pro-  jects for which special work plans are to be drawn  up; these special work plans will help States to take  a more satisfactory part in the activities of Unesco,  Finally, according to paragraph (g), reports are  ‘to mention "thé progress made in the field of the  human rights coming within the competence of  Unesco". ‘The Director-General is therefore  authorized, in paragraph 19:  "(a) To consider, in'agreement with the Executive  Board, the best ways of making his own reports and  those of Member States comparable and complemen-  tary as regards form and content’ (this is certainly  one of the most important items in these proposals);  (b) To prepare an analytical summary of the  reports of Member States;  {¢) To submit to the General Conference an assess  ment of the work accomplished by the Organization,  based both on the reports of Member States and on  his own reports;  (d) To arrange for the volume containing the re--  ports which reach the Secretariat within the time-  limits set by the Executive Board to be made avail-  able to members of the Committee one month prior  to the opening of the General Conference,"  The succeeding paragraphs present comments on  this draft resolution, together with some advice on  points of detail. I must point out a mistake in  parugraph 21; the figure 5 should be altered, in  every instance, to 18. ‘ L  This brings us to the last part of the report,   PLENARY KEETINGS  part V (Paragraph 27), which deals with the reform of  the Committee. - “The Committee on Reports of Member  States has made a recommendation regarding the form  and content of those documents, ‘the result of which  will be to alter the form of the Committee itself, The  Committee considered the proposals made by the  Executive Board, referred to it by the General Com-  mittee of the Conference, regarding the constitution  of a Committee on Roports to replace the present Com-  mittee on Reports of Member States, with wider terms  of reference. The Committee therefore decided to  submit the following draft resolution for the approval  of the General Conference;  “The General Conference  Having considered the proposals submitted by the  Executive Board in document 8C/7, Annex I, para-  graphs 18 to 20, and Annex II,  Decides to replace the Committee on Reports of  Member States by a Committee on Reports, consist-  ing of 19 members, with the following terms of  reference: -  (a) To examine; :  (i) The Director-General's reports on the activities  of the Organization and, if necessary, the Executive  Board's comments thereon;  (ii) The reports of Member States;  (iii) The analysis of those reports prepared by the  Secretariat;  {iv) The assessment of the work accomplishéd by  Unesco during the period under consideration, which  the Director-General 18 required to prepare on the  basis of his own reports and of Member States reports;  (b) To submit to the General Conference a report  (i) On the implementation of the programme resolu-  tions and on the efficacy of the methods used by Member  States, National Commissions and he Secretariat,  containing, ‘in particular, an analysis of the ways in  which the Organization's programme takes account of  the interests and needs of Member States; ‘ .  (ii). On the future development of Member States!  contribution to the preparation and execution of  Unesco's programme, with recommendations cal-  culated to improve this contribution; ;  {i11)- On the subjects on which thé Gerieral Conference's]  attention should be concentrated at the following séssion,  such as priority activités, major projects, programme  of Participation th Member States! activities etc. ;  Decidés that this new Committee on Réports shall  meét six déys prior, to the opening of the tenth session  of the General Conference, so that its observations  and recommendations may be submitted to the General  Conference in plenary meeting and to the Programme  Commission early enough to.be taken into account by  those bodies;  Instructs the Executive Board to consider arrange-  ments whereby délegatiôns unable to serve on this  Committée could be replaced by other delegations  designated by the Board."  Such are the draft resolutions which the Committee  on Reports of Member States has the honour to submit  for your approval, : :  I would like to point out that these three draft reso-  lutions are closely linked, Furthermore, they were  adopted unanimously at our meetings, ! should like  to emphasize this unanimity, which enabled the Com-  miftee on Reports of Member States to carry out its  work, That work would Lave been impossible
233  n-30  without the co-operative spirit. which constantly pr  vailed among us and which it is only. just to Attribute  in great jlert to the courtesy and good humour of our  Chairmaii, Dr,:Zèisal; to whom ail the members of  the Committee take this opportunity of paying tribute,  as also, Mr, President; to those members of the -  Secretariat who helped us in our work - Mr. Maheu,  Mr, Chevalier and Mr, Hirahara,  Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Reports  of Member States proposes that you adopt the three  draft resolutio 15 contained in document 9C/19,
(34) The PRESIDENT! I am sure the Conference  would wish the Chair to exprese its appreciation for  the most excellent work of this Committee and, in  particular, our appreciation for the very beautifully  summarized réport of the results of the work of the  Committee on Reports of Member States that has just  been presented to us by the Rapporteur. You will  see then, in this document we have before us, three  matters on which we are asked to take action - to  summarize briefly;
(1) The periodic reports on human rights; the  text of this resolution is contained in paragraphs 6  to 13 of the document before you.
(2) The second action point Is the form and content  of the reports to be presented before the tenth session.  The text of this resolution is contained in paragraphs
16 to 19 of the document before you,
(3) Thirdly and finally, the reform of the Committee,  The text of this resolution is in paragraphs 28 to 31  of the document before you.  I might mention, as to the membership of the Com-  mittee, that the members would be elected at a later  meeting, upon the recommendation of the Nominations  Committee.  I would now like to ask if the Director-General  wishes to make a brief comment on the report.
(35) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: Mr. President,  this report covers a subject which is of great interest  to the Secretariat and to myself personally. :' I desig-  nated one of my highest officers to sit constantly with  the Committee, as well as Mr. Chevalier and Mr.  Hirahara, and I followed personally the work of this  Committee, although unfortunately, because of other  meetings where by presence was required, I was un-  able to attend any of its meetings. ’ I think the Com-  mittee has done a splendid job and I am very much in  favour of all the recommendations which are contained  in this report.
(36) The PRESIDENT: The Chair would now like to  know the wish of the Conference. We must decide  some time whether we wish to take thése matters up  one by one or whether we wish to consider the report  of the Committee on Reports of Member States as a  whole,  I call upon the delegate of the Union of Soviet Soc-  {alist Republics.
(37) Mr. ZIMIN (Union of Soviet Socialist Republies)  (Translation from the Russian): Mr. President and fellow  delegates, the deleZation of the Soviet Union has listéned  to the report and studied the draft resofution submitted for  our consideration with great interest. We think the latter  can be considered and voted on as a whole.
11-20 PLENARY MEETINGS  At the same time we think it necessary to make a  few remarks, mainly concerning the wording of the  document; . On page 2, paragraph 10 says that the  Director-General shall suggest to Member States a  plan previously approved by the Executive Board; we  feel that the term "communicaté” would be more  acceptable than "suggest", On page 4, in paragraph  {d), which refers to messuies taken to establish,  develop or assist National Commissions, stress is  laid on the words "or other national co-operating -  bodies"; .we think that, for clarity's sake, the para-  graph should state that the bodies in question are those  responsible for co-operation in the spheres of educa-  tion, science and culture. Paragraph 20, on page 5,  states that the Committee also drew up the "following  directives" for the preparation and publication of the  reports of Member States,- we think it would be more  correct in this context to say "recommendations" in-  stead of "directives": The delegation of the Soviet  Union supports all the remeining proposals contained  in the draft resolution.  Thank you, Mr. President.
(38) The PRESIDENT: I would like to ask the Rap-  porteur if he wovid comment on these suggested  changes.
(38) . Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur of the  Committee on Reports of Member States) (Translation  from the French); Mr. President, the Rapporteur  accepts the changes just suggested by the delegate of  the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
(40) The PRESIDENT: Is it your wish to proceed to  a vote on the whole document, with these changes that  the Rapporteur has indicated are acceptable?
1 call upon the delegate of Switzerland.
(41) Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) (Translation from  the French): Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, I  should like to begin - and I am sure that, in so doing,  I shall be speaking for you all - by congratulating the  Committee on Repurts of Member States, its Chalr-  man, Mr, Zeiss}, its Rapporteur, Mr. Brunsvick,  and all who helped to prepare this excellent report.  I am convinced that the method they have outlined will  enable us to associate Member States much more  closely with the execution of the programme, and io in-  crease the efficiency of the National Commissions.  Haying said that, I should like, in my turn, to ask  the Rapporteur whether, in the last paragraph - 31 -  it might not be useful to provide for speedier execution  of the proposal made therein. If the Executive Board  is instructed to consider arrangements whereby dele-  gations could be replaced - and, as we know, ft still  quite often happens that à State nominated to serve on  this Committee is unable to be represented at its meet-  ings, owing to work with other committees or working  parties - the most practical method would, in my  opinion, be to authorize the Executive Board to replace  those delegations by other delegations, on the very  natural understanding that the Executive Board will  take account of geographical considerations in desig-  nating those delegations. I should therefore like to  ask the Rapporteur whether this slight amendment  seems acceptable to him. :
(42) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur of the ;  Committee on Reports of Member States) (Translation  from the French); - Mr, President, I think the Rap-  porteur can accept this change in drafting, The …-  "present wordirig was inspired by procedural considers-  tions but I feel that the delegate of Switzerland has  set at rest any doubts I may have had on that score,
(43) - The PRESIDENT: - If there are no further amend.  ments or. comments; may we proceed to a vote on the  whole document? ‘ We will proceed to the vote. - Will  those in fivour of accepting thé recommendations of  the Committee on Reports of Member States please  raise their hands? Those against? Abstentions ?  The Report is unanimously adopted, together with  the three recommendations contained in the Report.  I think its unanimous adoption Li itself speaks for  the excellent work of the Committee.  We will now pass on to the next item. The next -  item concerns the decision as to the place and date  of the tenth session of the General Conference, on  the Report of the Executive Board (document 9C/8).  I call upon Professor Veronese to present it.  DECISION ON THE PLACE OF THE TENTH SESSION  OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  {44) Mr. VERONESE (Italy) (Representative of the,  Executive Board) (Translation from the French): Mr,  President, fellow delegates, the.Chairman of the  Executive Board has asked me to introduce document
9C/8, containing & draft resolution regarding the,  place and date of the tenth session of .he General Cou-  ference. Under Rule 2 of the Rules os rrocedure of  the General Conference, the Conference, during its  ordinary session, has to fix the seat of the next ses-  sion. This decision is to be taken on the proposal  of the Executive Board, Document 9C/8 sets forth  the reasons which have led the Executive Board to  make specific proposals regarding the seat of the  tenth session of the General Conference and the dal:  of that session. -  I therefore have the honour, on behalf of the Execu-  tive Board, to propose that you accept the draft resolu  tion on the last page of document 9C/8, which suggests  that the tenth session of the General Conference be -  held in the city of Paris, and open early in November
1958. I nued only add that, in this draft resolution,  the document reference given in the second paragraph  of the preamble should be not document 45 EX/3 (which  is an Executive Board document), but document 9C/8,  which I am now putting before you.
(45) The PRESIDENT: Is there any comment on the  recommendation of the Executive Board which Pro-  tessor Veronese has just presented to the Conference?  I call upon the delegate of Belgium.
(46) Mr. KUYPERS (Belgium) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, in a previous speech I mes-  tioned the Belgian Government's intention of inviting’  Unesco to Brussels in 1858, on the occasion of the  Exhibition which is to be held at that time, 1 thought
1 had dissuaded my Government from so doing, for the  three reasons of which you are aware: firstly the  proposal should have been made within the official   PLENARY MEETINGS  time-Jimit - that is to say, six weeks before the open:  ing of the Conference; secondly,’ it is clearly desjrable  for Unesco to hold a first meeting at its new Head-  quarters in Paris; and finally, the usual date of the  meeting, November, would have had to be put forward,  as the Brussels Fxhibition ends in October 1958, 1  will therefore not urge the point; but a few days after  the election of the members of the Executive Board,
1 received a'telegram from Brussels, dated 23 Novem-  ber, which I would like to read to you;  Request you on behalf of Cabinet officially invite  Unesco Organization General Conference Brussels
1958, Leo Collard Minister of Education.  I wanted to inform you, Mr, President, and the whole  Conference, of this fresh proof of the high regard in  which my country holds Unesco, and of its desire for  active collaboration, which is even greater now than  formerly.
(47) The PRESIDENT; I am sure I speak for the  Conference as a whole when I say that we are most  grateful to hear of this very kind wish of the Belgian  Government that the tenth session should be held in  Brussels; and we also respect their understanding of  the reasons against the proposal, which prompted them  very graciously to withdraw it, although we are sure  many of us would have liked to be in both places, if  possible.  If there are no further comments, may we proceed  to vote on the recommendation before you, from the  Executive Board? I might point out that tho exact  starting date of the Conference is set by the Director-  General, and the indication in the resolution fs just  an approximate recommendation made by the Executive  Board.  Will those in favour of adopting.the recommendation  of the Executive Board, please raise their cards ?  Those against? Abstentions ?  It is unanimously adopted.  The next item on the agenda relates to the inclusion  of an {tem in the agenda of the tenth session of the  General Conference "Appointment of a Director-  General." The relevant documents are pe/oR/ 122  and 9C/DR/132. I call upon the delegate of Australia.  INCLUSION OF AN ITEM iN THE AGENDA OF THE TENTH SESSION :  APPOINTMENT OF A DIRECTOR-GENERAL"
(48) Sir Richard BOYER (Australia): Mr. President  and fellow delegates, you hava beforeyou a document,
0C/DR/122, the contents of which, in substance, are  self-explanatory, and I do not propose to go through  them again. But I want to say something very briefly  on the reasons why this resolution has been brought  before this Conference.  The Australian delegation, in presenting this draft  resolution, had one object in mind, namely the con-  centration of the energies and resources of Unesco in  its programme. What we sought to avoid were any  interruptions to this programme, interruptions which
11-20  - might have resulted from the’ ¢ed for an extraordinary  session of the Conference, ‘or indeed from some period,  however short, of uncertainty, I am sure if is pot  necessary for me to say that it was not our intention,  in any way, to suggest that the current term of the  present Director-General should be shortened, That  idea had certainly not occurred to us, We therefore  welcome the splendid gesture of the Director-General,  which facilitates the work of Unesco by avoiding eny  extraordinary session which might otherwise have  been necessary, ;  Further, our resolution has the object of erisuring  the provision of sufficient notice and sufficient time  for the Executive Board {6 discharge its serious res-  ponsibility in advising thé General Conference on this  most important appointment, I appreciate very much  the co-operation we have received from Dr, Evans  in presenting this proposal. We recognize now,  however, that the form of words set out in document
8C/DR/122 is inappropriate to the present circum-  stances. We are therefore glad to have Dr. Evans'  concurrence that his suggestion in document 9C/DR/133  be incorporated in our own proposals, Accordingly,  Mr. President, we suggest that the Conference adopt  our motion in an amended form, incorporating the  wording suggested by the Director-General,  I will now read, quite slowly, the amended form of  four paragraphs and I hope that the Conference will  find general dcceptance for them. The amended reso-  lution is as follows:  "The General Conference
(1) Noting the statement of the Director-General that  he intends to resign his post effective at the end of  the tenth session of the General Conference,
(2) Decides to place on the agenda of the tenth  session the following item:  * Appointment of a Director-General’;
(3) Appreciating the heavy responsibility placed  upon the Executive Board in preparing the nomination  for this post which it is to submit to the General  Conference,
(4) Requests the Executive Board, after appropriate  consideration, to submit its nomination to the tenth  session of the General Conference."
1 formally move this resolution.
(49) The PRESIDENT: As I understand the remarks  of the delegate of Australia, the resolution that he has  just read to you is a substitute resolution for those con-  tained in documents 9C/DR/122 and 9C/DR/132, so  that we now have one substitute resolution before us  relating to this matter,  is this substitute resolution supported ?  supported,  Ia there any objection to the substitute resolution?  If 1 see no objection, 1 assume that this resolution is  adopted ?  Adopted unanimously.  It is  The meeting rose at'5,55 p.m.