GENERAL COMMITTEE  wh “cp  tigi SETI START) Bi  IRD MEETING ““  mpheto «
(117 November, 1936, at 8136 ay  ina  _ Chafrm  FROGRESS OF WORK
(1) Mr DAVIES Aédréd (ral fe’ Adminidgblivd ' ="  Comlratoe had held two ed It häd taken  deci pen e à ridment ution and  ua ath ia ve qi a re pe ri Th ol}  a st dc t C 183 sf 3 £34 iT)  Ripe Eh Ca dy ili  da DE be Eétte Vid bt fe  prie cr CHR pate  financial years 1954 and = and app co fori pa  ing the report to the Secre of the  Nations: Il had SES hk i ui He éhorésbube !  tion of ihe’ Workin hy ¢ iy Faby’ ‘décidé tas >  postpone’ {48 pacte Cuntil’ the ie ie Hira  Comasitide d vd had tte 1° wi 1Vd'tb' ftéth
12.4 (Athdnds pip i Lid Fladnetal Rug ulationb), ‘the’  Fadi had dla dia tévolis- Be he rinciple of’  éthéridir g "thd twdlihividd Hl jar AY! flute for ere  susgeision dh ait RU 1hti6hj"thé Hattér) hhd'  been referred to the Legal Céfédittéé” The Cértéts»  sion had decide d to defer consideratio n of item  (Medical Beribrits' 4 scheine) bécaude à rik ine of how  the balériés ‘of tHe twd statt Members Libhastid were  tobe’ phitd had rio} yet beet setiled i a 0 J  ( 3) ME Mi! ZEISSL) informed ihe Gete'ral’ Cobia ’  t the Cotiimiittee or RépoHy of Menitigr' diated nad’  tiélshéd 4 work aiid was mméétiig that’ aftérnooï at  a and ct tollowing ‘day but bne, to discuss {tems
1 and 17  ERR ! 33 re
(9) ini MATSUI suid (hit thé rojosed élénimténts  to the Sobetifition had béénre vred to'din dd hod  workitik patty setup bY the t44a1 Committée 7 The ‘‘  lttét had alsé’ édhsideved ité'féporté foo the |  Cordinittée di RébSFtà of Mètiibér, States ind trom the  Adidiniétrdtive Commission.  ETE AE RTT FIFE INE RRTS EO EV 148 941 A  ORGAMZATION OF-NORR © + 1111 ee  ve LÉ PE CURE uh araghia à Live [nts cu)
(4) Mr, MONTAGNIER (Secretary) atinodhéed.thé pro-  gramme of meetings proposed, for the current week (12  to 18 November)! whith Whe giver 6h page’) of. ihe Con-  ‘fetehce Journal (Section 'IV)! ‘The Ge nerd] Cémmittee  would méét'où 12/14 bind 16 November, ‘at 9,30 à,m;  Tete would be twd ‘plenty meetings; ‘on the-morn- -  fngs 61:12 and 13 Noverhbéi respectively, The >: . ‘+  Neïhinhtions Committed would mest ohithe afternoon  of 12. Novembeit to condidér nôlmihations for the: vi.  vadant sits ‘onthe Executive Board: Thé Prograthine  Cominission would hold eight meqtings between the I:  inorning 4f- 13) November kind the Afternoon of i 75: Y
16 Novérnber.! Its: revised prograisihé of work'was '-  ‘giver’ {n dotlivhenk 8C/ 9, 'Addeviddin 2, The working!’  parties that Vhe Programe Génimissioh might think!
287     an:’Mr. ARROYO'(Eétädor)  fit td set up culd hold elevén miéetihgs;!frbm-14"to'1}
116 November! The Adiinistrat{ve Comtiidaion would  hold vine wit etihgs,: betwedr the witernoon of ©) -
13 Noveinber snd thé ‘afternoon of 16 NSVemba, : Trio  Legit Committde would méet on thie’ morning of = >."
12 November and on the afternoon of 13 November,» '  Lastly, the Committee on Reports of Membler States  was 16! feel: bn thé aftbrnoons’bé 112 dnd 14 November,  With regard to tte lection of miémbers ‘of thew! : >  Exec\itive ‘Board, the Génétal:Confererice hadi‘  approved the aniéndments propbsed by the Adminis‘  trative Coémmissionl'The: Gontererce had (k) to élect
13 fnebers of thé Executive Board; (b) to'seléct,’ by  lot, dris member for i term of office of {wo years.  In decorddncd with’ the new: procedure provided for :  in Rule 30 of the'Rules 'ôf Progedurs, the Nominations  Conhinittee would considel the list of: nominations end  the geographitdl distribution of the ‘candidates, Ati: ::  plenary meetings of the General Conference; a vote ©  would be taken by secret ballot. -Thé speaker + :  reminded the Committes'that that diy's meeting: 1  would finish'about:5'p. m, 's0'as to enable delegates ‘  to attéhd the reception given by thé President of the  ; Republic! of India,’ REA
(5) Mr, MALLEA inquired why € the procedure had  bééti changed,’ cotisidering that the voté vas ‘to Bel i ;  taken ih pledary meetirig. ni HIE ’  ERE SEI > tt Fn * : ASE RE
(6), My, MONT AGNtëW side Sik that th  change Was due 16 the désiré éxpr esse hb OF  Member Stated’ rt {he Bons ae pariah % he Pre de  of work of the General Ce erence c pa a  profioke) Made À by J] the Ja noire fy A sl dep alts NA  existing pF ode vant Ag resp il jis ine fu  Commitee Wed éottined to examiimation of thé 1  cdndidatéd and'athéüssiôn of the gtégräphiéal daté  tion of seats, but the plenary Conférénéé had the sole  right to vote on all the nominations sent in to the  AR PMU RSI RI  Pirector;Geperet. Yar.
(7) Mr, LAPIE, en behalf of the French delegation,  suggested that the working parties be convened in the  order of the Programme chapters; so that the experts  would be forewarned and there. would be  no confusion  about the time-table. pe  Me cu à" AE TE ETE FE PTE SULT) I TS 244
(8) Mr. DAVIES said it would be very helpful the  Director-Général could outliné the proceduré to be  followed that: moihing by the Administrative Commis’  sion in conhexion with the. ‘budget ceiling. AREER]  BOYES TTI NET IN (Ee FV EIR dar Le 1 ndtarr  @ Mr;  ADISESHIAN abit ‘irk aide)  fond thé Rapporteur uf thé'Céramtésion wolild LitFodute  the teport/(dociitiedt 9C/ 15); thet! the Conferéhct  would bé asked td’ Vôté ‘om thrée resolitions: oat  tradi ons  ete Weise)  contributions; Financial Reghlattons, ‘Kinoutit'st "7
1-3  contributions unlikely to be received, The President  of the Conference would then call for resolutions or  recommendations concerning the provisional spend-  ing level; the Director-General would thén have the  opportunity to explain the effect on the assessraent  level of the resolutions adopted, It was hoped that  the provisional spending level would be voted by the  Conference before the end of the morning meeting,
(10) Mr. MATSUI ipquired whether the Commissions  and Committees could make changes in the provisional  time-table; . provision had been made for two meetings  of the Legal Committee and, at the request of the  Greek delegate, it was desired to postpone one of  them, - .  + ¥  an Mr. MONTAGNIER Secretary) ‘explained nat a  meeting could be postponed only if one of those, .  scheduled for the Administrative Commission, , the .  Programme Commission or the working parties were  cancelled, In reply to a remark from Mr, Matsul  that, depending on the progress of the Committee's  work, it might perhaps be possible for it to hold a  meeting on the Tuesday morning, Mr. Montagrier  said that there was no possibility of holding a  meeting on that day: If the Legal Committee had to  hold an extra meeting, it should be held on the  Wednesday afternoon.’ .  In conclusion, he announced that, on the recom-  mendation of the Executive Board, -contained in  document 9C/9, the work of the General Conference  would be suspended from 17 to 19 November. Work  would therefore finish on Friday afternoon of the  current week and begin again on the following Tuesday.
(12) Mr. DAVIES pointed out that the Administrative  Commission was meeting the following day in the  afternoon, Since it was rather in advance of its  agenda, it might be possible to cancel its Friday  afterncon or Saturday morning meeting to enable the  Legal Committee to meet on either of those days.
(13) The CHAIRMAN stated that the General Commit-  tee approved ôf the proposed interruption in the |  Conference's work: One meeting of the Administra-  tive Commission would also be given up in favour of  the Legal Committee.  REQUESTS FROM INTERNATIONAL NON-GOVERNMENTAL  ORGANTZATIONS FOR PERMISSION TO SPEAK
(14) Mi. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) infordied i the -  meeting that two international non-govérnméntal-  organizations had requested permission to speak at  plenary meetings - a request that fequired approval °  from the General Committee, The organizations in  question were the International Confederation of Free  Trade Unions and, the World Federation of Trade -  Unions; The course: ‘6 far followed had béen to refuse  non-governmental or ganizations the right to be .:  included in the list of speakers at plenary meetings  of the. Conference, : .He recalled that thé International  Confederation of Free Trade Unions had asked to.  speak on a previous occasion, at the sixth session  of the General Conference, ‘and that, it. had then  been aythorized | to speak only at meetings of    GENERAL COMMITTEE  Commissions but not in plenary meeting, There  were other similar precedents.  - (15) Mr, LAPIE was in favour of following earlier  precedents,
(16) As there were no further remarks, the CHAIRMAN  announced that international non-governmental organiza.  tions would not be allowed to speak at plenary meetings,  REINSTATEMENT OF, OR PAYMENT OF INDENNITIES TO,  STAFF MEMBERS .
(17) Mr. MONTAGNE (secrelary) said that some  communications, received by the, Director- General  had beep referred to the Committee, including one  from the “Ligue des Droits de l'Homme" (a French ”  organization), relating to the, réinstatement of, or  payment of indemnities to, certain officials who had  been suspénded,
(18) The CHAIRMAN “apked | the méinbers of (He  Committee what they. thought should be done in (he  matter, ‘haying regard’ to | the opinion given by ‘the  International’ Court of Justice, The question was |  whether the. officials. concerned should be reinstated  or whether they should be paid an ‘appropriate ,  indemnity. He had the impression that the Court was  in favour of reinstatement, but the course chosen  might well be separation. ,
(19) The DIRECTOR- GENERAL à slated ‘that the cases  referred to had been settled by the Administrative  Tribunal, which had recommended the reinstatement  of the staff members concerned or the’ peyment of  Tribunal yo had Fl nothing about, the poten : its,  decision, ‘The advisory, opinion of the Tribunal was  binding on the Organization -‘a fact which’ was known  in advance. The Executive Board had then authorized  payment of the awards out of the Working Capital  Fund, and suitable ‘orders had been given, The  Director-General, sald, that reinstatement had been  refused by him and, unless the Conference decided to  reopen the question, there was nothing for it to do  except take note of his communication on the matter,
(20) The CHAIRMAN stated that, if there was no  general discussion on the question, the Director- |  General would continue to apply the procedure so o far  followed in the matter, . .  sir def Tay ty sf,
(31) Mr, KEMENOV, agreed Ÿ that the Director-General  was perfectly competent to take such decisions, - but he  pointed out that the Executive Board bad not been  unanimous in ita opinion of his statement, which had  elicited some criticism, The Director-General's-- x  statement would seem to preclude any appeals by the:  staff to.the Administrative Tribunal,; Some members  of the Board had expressed disagreement with such a  presentation of the queation;-. Mr..Kemenov; uid not  think, however, thet the matter was within the Board’ s  competence, but felt that delegations should be. y.  allowed to express their views in the Conference, . The  International Court at The Hague had confirmed that -   GENERAL COMMITTEE I-4  the Adniinistrative Tribunal was competent to  consider complaints about the action of the Director-  General of Unesco, Thé ILO Tribunal had thus  received the support of a high international authority,  He therefore proposéd, not on procedural but on  moral grounds, that the delegates! right to speak on  the question should not be curtailed in any way, He  personally was in favour of the reinstatement of the  four staff members mentioned in the opinion of the  International Court, who had been wrongly dismissed  by the Director-General,
(33) The DIRECTOR- -GENÉRAL sald he had not  suggested that the Conference should refrain from  discussing whether his action had been right or wrong,  but pointed out that there was at present no such  point on its agenda, The matter was "res judicata"  and the Conference could hardly reopen it. What it  could do was to condemn the Director-General's  action, and Mr, Kemenov was perfectly free to make  a motion in that matter, The Board had not requested  the reinstatement of the staff members concerned and  it was not true that he had recommendéd a widening  of his powers to dismiss members of the staff -  besides, in the cases in point, {t had not been a  matter of dismissal but of non-renewal of contracts.  What he had said was that, if the Board did not  accept the continuation of his power to decide in his  discretion whether to renew contracts when they  expired, he would feel compelled to ask the General  Conference to amend the Staff Regulations so as to  remove cases of the non-renewal of contracts from  the jurisdiction of appeals machinery external to the  Organization, The Director-General had no objection  to the Board's considering the future measures to be  FOURTH     taken, but at-the moment the Board had not completed  its discussion on the matter. In his opinion, it would  be irregular for the Conference to consider the matter  at that time,
(23) Mr, MUDALIAR (Chairman of the Executive  Board) stated that, when the question was before the  Board, many views had been expressed, The decisions  of the Administrative Tribunal and of the International  Court of Justice had been carefully éxamined ahd, -  after hearing the Diréctor-General, the Board had  decided to authorize him to pay the awards granted  by the Administrative Tribunal, The reply of the  Director-General to questions asked by certain’  members regarding the ways of preventing future  difficulties of a similar nature had resulted in further  discussion, Thé Board had finally decided that a  thorough study of thé whole matter should be made  after the Director-General's statement had been  circulated, The Chairman added that the decision of  the Board would be made known to the Conference.
(24) The CHAIRMAN admitted that the concern  expressed by the Soviet delegate with regard to the  defence of human rights was justified, He thought,  however, that Mr. Kemenoy had no reason to be  alarmed, since the current procedure safeguarded  the rights of the officials concerned. He did not  think that the Gencral Committee should embark on  a debate on the question, although the discussion of  the problem might be continued on another occasion,  With the Committee's agreement, he proposed to  suspend the discussion,  The meeting rose at 10.30 a. m,  MEETING
15 November 1956, at 9 a.m,  Chairman: Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  COMMUNICATIONS RECEIVED BY THE GENERAL COMMITTEE  (l) The CHAIRMAN opened thé meeting and asked  the members of the General Committee whether they  had any comments to make on the communications  circulated to them.
(2) Mr. LAPIE observed that the communications  could be clasaified in two distinct categories:  - (1) political and
(3) cultural '  Be einphasized that thé United Nations was the  proper body to deal with questions in the first  category, and opposed thé reference of such questions  to the General Conference,  So far as cultural questions were concerned, the  French delegation was, of course, quité prépared to  have them discussed by thé General Conference.
(3) Mr. PARRA-PEREZ agreed with the delegate of  France; although Unesco was undoubtedly a sovereign  body, he thought that several of the communications  before the General Committee were political in  character and should be referred to the United  Nations.
(4) Mr. ARROYO wished to add a third ‘category to  the two defined by the French delegate, to cover  humanitarian quéstions. Although it was difficult  to make a clear-cut distinction between political,  humanitarian and cultural questions, he did not think  that Unesco should take up questions which were not  within its proper field.
(5) Mr, MALLEA agreed with the representatives ot  Venezuela and Ecuador, taking the view that political  problems should not be discussed.