PROGRAMME COMMISSION  purely technical in character, but was designed to  achieve the object indicated by all who had just spoken  on the subject,
(89) Miss FIELD (United Kingdom) thought the pro-  posal was admirable and she supported it, but in her  opinion the International Organization for Standardi-  gation should be consulted,
(80) Mr. TERROU (France) did not think that the  International Organization for Standardization would  have any objections to make, as it had been informed  of the proposal, which had been drawn up at the  express request of film techniclans.
(91) The draft resolution was supported by the dele-  gates of Fi Salvador and the Union of Soviet Soclalist  Republics.
(92) Mr, GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) stressed that the standardization of  films was very intricate; many diverse interests and  technical difficulties were involved and the Geneva  Institute should be left to settle the point. - In his  opinion $5,000 was far too modest a sum for carrying  out the proposed activity - $20, 000 or $25, 000 would  probably be needed, In reply to the delegate of  Australia, Mr. Gjesdal explained that the calculation  of the $5,000 had been made by France; the Secre-  tariat had a different opinion on the costs.
(83) Sir Richard BOYER (Australia) was disturbed;  The Director-General's check estimates should be    IV-16  communicated to the Commission immediately after  those contained in a proposal.
(94) The CHAIRMAN told Sir Richard Boyer that his  remark would be duly noted by the Secretariat.
(95) Mr, UNAKOY (Unlon of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lcs) found the draft resolution highly interesting;  but, in view of its complex technical character, he  suggested that Unesco enter into contact with the  International Organization for Standardization, which  could be made responsible for the work, The aim  would thus be achieved, Because of the technical  character of the proposal, the Soviet delegation would  abstain from voting.
(96) Mr, TERROU (France) was willing to concur in  that proposal if the Director of the Department would  give an assurance that the Secretariat was prepared  to establish contact with the International Organiza-  tion for Standardization in order that the necessary  studies might be undertaken by that body.
(97) Mr, GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass Com-  munication) stated thatthe International Organization  for Standardization would be consulted. Member States  had already been requested to assist that body.
(98) Mr. TERROU (France) sald that, in view of Mr.  Gjesdal's statement, the French delegation withdrew  its draft resolution.  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m,  SIXTEENTH MEETING
23 November 1956, at 3 p.m,  Chairman: Mr, ANAS (Afghanistan)  ITEM 98 OF THE AGENDA : MASS COMMUNICATION (continued)  (évéuments 9C/5 and Addenda and Corrigenda, documents 9C/DR/21,  % md 30)  Project 5,321: Press (paragraphs 67 to 93)  {1) Mr, BURNS (New Zealand) stated that, although  his delegation was in favour of full co-operation with  the press, it was not in favour of Increasing the staff  at Headquarters, It suggested that fuller use be  made of representatives of thé press in Paris. The  New Zeuland delegation thought that on-the-spot  coverage should be undertaken by reporters on the  spot from local néwspapers. With'a view to a  possible economy, the New Zeuland delegation sug-  gested that Unesco might itself undertake the analysis  of the world press, rather than conclude contracts  for the purpose.
383  With regard to publications, Mr, Burns said that,  in his country, the "Unesco Features" were very much  appreciated and the "Courier" was considered to be  one of Unesco's best achievements, As for the "Unesco  Chronicle", the proposal to produce it as a multitithed  document was welcomed. : A  Referring to paragraph 86, Mr, Burns asked if it  would be possible to reissue two pamphlets on,  nuclear energy which had already been distributed.  Further, Mr. Burns asked for information on para-  graph 88, because it was felt in New Zealand that, if  the reference book were intended primarily for  teachers, it should be produced by the Department of  Education; if, on the other hand, {t waa to be a  reference book, pure and simple, it should be pre-  pared by the United Nations.  {2) Replying to the delegate of New Zealand, Mr.
1V-16  GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass Communica-  tion) said that the extension of press coverage would,  to a large oxtent, be in the field, increasing use being  made of local journalists, Owing to the reduced pro-  vision for staff travel, it would, in any case, be im-  possible to send out many reporters from Headquarters.  The increase of one or two posts at Headquarters was  for the production of public information material in  Russian,  With regard to the analysis of the world press, the  contracts were concluded with clipping services all  over the world, ‘  As for the question concerning paragraph 86, things  were moving very fast in the field of nuclear energy  and Mr, Gjesdal feared that, if the pamphlets were  reissued, they would already be out of date, A  special pamphlet on that subject would therefore be  needed during 1957-1958,  The Department of Mass Communication had been  made responsible for the reference book on the United  Nations and Specialized Agencies because, although  it was designed for teachers, it could also be used for  public information purposes, The Department of  Education had a number of other projects dealing with  the same subject.
(3) Mr, TSUDA (Japan) expressed his country's  appreciation of the "Courier". It was considered,  however, that the presentation of the "Unesco  Features' should be improved, For instance, it  might be advisable to arrange for the editorial staff  and contributors to represent as many parts of the  world as possible. At the present time, publications  arrived too late, and the articles were too long to be  published in newspapers; some were published in  shortened form, but most of them were unacceptable,
(4) Mr. CAILLET-BOIS (Argentina) expressed his  appreciation of the "Unesco Courier", which was both  a reference work on the United Nations and a mine of  information on Unesco, The Unesco programme was  not sufficiently publicized in America and was known  only in a restricted circle, which could be widened.  Any means of reaching a wider audience and extending  the distribution of Unesco publications would be warmly  supported by the Argentine delegation.  Project 5.323: Radio (paragraphs 110 to 132 and  document 9C/DR/21)
(5) Mr, TERROU ( France) felt that no comment was  necessary on the French proposal (document 8C/DR/21),  It was common knowledge that no provision had been  made for the exchange of cultural radio programmes,  and that was a serious omission in the programnie,  The budgetary implications of the proposal would be  trifling.
(6) Mr, GJESDAL, “birector, Department ot Mass  Communication) observed that the draft resolution  presented ‘by. France was th. line with paragraph 111  of the Mass Communication section of document
9C/5 Corrigendum 1. The French proposal merely  involved some additional funds, but the Secretariat  hoped to be able to accommodate it within the activi:  ties already propoaed.
(7) Mr, HARDY (United States of America) was pleased  to support the French proposal, with the proviso that  the $5, 000 be taken from the appropriation for the major  project on mutual appreciation of Fastern and Western  cultural values,
(8) Mr. GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) replied that a provision of $7,000 was  already suggested under that project for radio exchanges;  the point made by the delegate of the United States was  thus met,
(8) The draft resolution presented by the French dele-  gation in document 8C/DR/21 was adopted with 1  abstention,
(10) Referring to paragraph 115, Mr. WEEDEN  (Australia) announced that the Australian National Com-  mission wished to suggest to the Director-General that  meetings of programme directors be held outside  Europe in 1959-1960,
(11) Mr, BURNS (New Zealand) had pleasure In inform-  ing the Secretariat that his country was entirely in  favour of the whole of project 6.323, and noted with  Hy approval the budgetary reduction in document
(12) Mr. GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) said that the Secretariat would cer-  tainly take account of Mr. Weeden's proposal concern-  ing the holding of future meetings of programme direc-  tors outside Europe.  Project 5.324: Public Liaison (paragraphs 133 to
139 and documents 9C/DR/25 and 50)
(13) Mr. TERROU (France) stressed the importante  attached by his delegation to the draft resolution‘con-  tained in document 9C/DR/ 25, He explained that the  proposal was not new, as it had already been approved  by the Executive Board at its 37th session, but no  action had been taken at that time, If Unesco truly  wished to make an impression on world public opinion,  new methods would have tô be tried, Something more  was needed than committees of experts, meetings of  specialists, and reports appealing only fo a restricted  circle of readers, The French delegation was con-  vinced that the time had come to arouse réally world-  wide interest in Unesco and the major problems with  which the Organization was dealing, : The system of  holding large-scale international competitions, open.  to all, was not Utopian, even if results were slow.  It was essential, however, that the prizes offered  should be exceptional, The Executive Board would  have to choose the subjects and decide on the rules,  The important thing was for the Conference to take  a decision on the principle, end the French delsgation  appealed to the members of the Commission to give  the proposal favourable consideration.
(14) Mr. GJESDAL Director, Department of Mass  Communication) believed that it would be possible  to carry cut the project successfully, provided that  enough staff were available for planning, and that the  Secretariat secured the active co-operation’ of .  National Commissions and appropriate international   PROGRAMME COMMISSION 1Y-16  non-governmentel organizations, He agreed withthe  French delegation that it was important to offer big  enough prises, but he hoped that National Commissions  sad non-governmental organisations would play an +  sctive part in the project and perhaps offer supple-  mentary prises.
(18) Mrs, BIRD (Canada) thought that $30, 000 seemed
8 large sum for a project which would not reach a  very wide public, Her delegation considered that far  more pressing needs existed, for instance, in the field  of fundamental education,
(16) Mr. HARDY (United States of America) announ-  ced that his delegation opposed thé draft resolution  for the following reasons; (1) it was not satisfied  that the results of the preliminary survey justified the  launching of such a project - on the whole, the res-  ponse from Member States had been weak; (3) it was  not considered a wise procedure for Unesco to involve  itself in the awarding of prises; there were enough  criticisms of Unesco as it was, and the Organisation  should not lay itself open to possible accusations of  lack of impartiality; and (3) the United States dele-  gation was deeply concerned at the budgetary impli-  cation of $30,000,
(17) Miss GNAUCK (Federal Republic of Germany)  warmly seconded the draft resolution presented by  France, If the project did not secure the necessary  backing in the Programme Commission, the German  delegation urged the Diréctor of the Department to  organise at least a few’ competitions by saving money  on other parts of the programme. Parsimony was  not always the best policy; for example, some films  produced by Unesco had not been very good and thelr  quality might be improved By such competitions, Miss  Gnauck could not agrée with thé delegate of Canada  that the public reached would be réstricted; on the  contrary, she believed that, by taking topics such as  fundamental education as the subject of competitions,  a very wide public could be reached.
(1 Mr. CAILLET-BOIS (Argentina) warmly sup-  ported the French proposal’ and the objectives, men-  tioned in the list, which was not exhaustive, in the  third paragraph of the document, The French pro-  posal was so good that it deseived the most sym-  pathetic ‘consideration, © There was, however, one  difficulty about it that could be eliminated, If was  à question of timé, To organize a competititon in  which prizes would be given ‘to meritorious works  required ample time, as it had to be sufficiently pub-  licised to be brought to the notice of writers in all  parts of the world, who would then have to préparé and  submit their works. It followed that it would be im-  possible to include the competition in the 1957-1068  budget. The negotiations invoivéd, and the careful  flion of worth-while works, their submission,  their examination by thé jury and their previous  trarsiation into several languages, would make it  impossible to reach the final stage before 1958, He  proposed that the third paragraph of the French draft  be slightly amended to read "Authorises the Director-  General to consider the holding of ..." instead of  "Awthorises the Director-General to launch ...".  "The proposed change would mean that the quéstion -    could be studied and the necessary appropriation in-  cluded in the budget for the following two-year period,  The Argentine delegation would immediately under-  take to vote for the proposal if it were submitted to  the General Conference at its tenth session,
(18) Mies FIFLD (United Kingdom) thought that the  French proposal deserved very serious consideration;  unfortunately, it had come too late for delegations to  consult their co-operating bodies on the subject, She  therefore hoped that the matter would be brought up  again on a future occasion, She added that, from  peraonal experience, she could say that the awarding  of international prises demanded a great deal of time  and care,  considered by, the Décoiuidencral and the Fxecutive  Board for some time and they had felt that, whatever  its merits, it was not as important as the projects which  they had included in the programme, Moreover, those  projects concerned matters which Member States con-  sidered to be of great importance, and the interest of  their educational and cultural leaders was therefore  presumably already focused on them. Consequently,  it seemed unnecessary to try to attract them by quite  a considerable bait, ;
(21) Mr. CHABBI (Tunisia) while récognizing the  originality of the French proposal and paying tribute  to the generois spirit in which it had been submitted,  expressed his doubts about the value of compétitions  of the type !h question. Competitions were not the  best way of arousisig the interest of the public. An  easier method was needed, The competititons pro-  posed by the French delegation would probably result  in works of great merit, which would, however, be of  interest to a limitéd public only, apart from which the  considerable sum to be appropriated could be used to  much better advantage in other parts of the programme,  such as fundamental education, .
(22) Mr, JORDANA DF POZAS (Spain) thought that  the French draft resolution desérved ¢areful study in  view of its aims. But, if those aims were to be achieved,  a competition ‘of such importarice would have to be care-  fully prepared and, ‘for that, time would be required.  . He aupported the proposals made by the United States  and Argentine delegétions to the efféct that the Director-  General should forthwith look into the question of or-  ganizing a competition so that it might be included in  the programme for the following two-year period.  :(33) Mr. TERROU (France) said that he would be  satistied if the Commission accepted the French pro-  posal in essence - that was, ‘the idea of holding com-  petitions - and officially acknowledged its value. For  the sake of agreement, he would accept the Argentine  amendmert, provided that the principle was safeguarded.  He was firmly convinced that there was no justification  for scepticism with regard to the proposal,
(24) At the CHAIRMAN's suggestion, it was agreed to  ask the delegate of France to redraft his proposal   IV-16 PROGRANME  in éonsultation with the delegate of Argentina.
(25) Referring to dociument 9C/DR/60, Mr, WEEDEN  (Australia) requested the Director of the Department  to say whether the Secretariat's calculations corres-  ponded to the budgetary provision of $25, 000 proposed  by the delegation’ of Argentina,
(26) Mr, GJFSDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Conimurication) replied that the Secrétariat estimated  that public information work alone would amount to  $10, 000 for each of the two years, The other activi-  tiés would require additional funds,
(27) Mr, CAILLET - BOIS (Argentina) gave some ex-  planations about document 9C/DR/50 which his dele-  gation had subniltied, ‘In the firat place, it reflected  the keer interest of the Argentiné Government in pub-  Hcizing Unesco's aims within that coüntry.’‘ Ad a  proof of that intérest, he pointed out that the school  curriculum’in Argentina already included study of  topics concerning the United Nations; the current  object was to spread a wider knowledge of Unesco's  programme,  What was desired in practice | was to’ strengthen an  already existing body $0 that public laison work in  connexion with Unesco could be developed more satis-  factorily, as the audience at the moment was small.  There was no intention of damaging the position of  other similar centres, whose existence was not in-  compatible with his proposal; they would accordingly  have the support of his delegation, which strongly  favoured decentralization in Unesco's programme, The  establishment of the proposed centre and its links  with the department already existing in the Ministry of  Education would ensure wider publicity for Unesco's  aims ard bring them to the notice of the general public.  He hoped that there would be no opposition to estab-  lishing the proposed centre in Buenos Aires, as that  city was without doubt the most suitable location on the  South American continent.
(28) The Argentine proposal was seconded by the  Viet-Namese delegation,
(29) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director- -General) drew  delegates! attention to the implications of the Argentine  proposal, which were not apparent on a mere reading  of décument 9C/DR/50, In fact the Argentine dele-  gation was proposing an entirely new system of | .  liaison between Unesco and its Member States {hrough  the establishment of offices in individual countries,  It was true that the United Nations had a'large number  of information offices throughout the world, and that  the International Labour Organization and the World  Health Organization had representatives in several of  the world's capitals.  . That system might be excellent  in itself, ‘but Unesco had no such representatives,  Haison with the Mémber States being, to a large ex-  tent the responsibility of the National Commiss fons  and the permanent delegates. so  The Argentine proposal raised the whole question  of the decentralizstion of Uriesco's activities and the  problem of whether the Organization needed regional  offices of the type described was a basic one, More-  over, the United Nations already had an information  centre, with which Unesco could collaborate, in
386  ‘Argentina. -     COMMISSION  Buenos Aires, and there was a danger that the office  proposed by the Argentine delegation might cover the  same ground, :  In conclusion, he pointéd out that, while he was not  opposed to the project, its implications were far wider  than the budgetary implications accompanying it  suggested.
(30) Mr, CAILLET-BOIS (Argentina), replying to the  Assistant Director-General, said that the explanatory  note accompanying document 9C/DR/50 clearly stated  that the proposed centre would not only be "a link:  between Unesco and the Government"! but would also  carry out publié information activities, . -  More specifically, his delegation was offering fo  enlarge and strengthen a body already in existence in  While that body was important to the  couniry Itself, {t was much more so to Unesco, for it  would help to publicize the Organization's aims,
(31) Mr, HARDY (United States of America) pointed  out that the ‘resolution of ‘Argentina raised a very im-  portant problem, namely the desirability of establish-  ing a series of Unesco liaison offices in various parts  of the world. It was a matter which should be gone  into very carefully by the National Commissions, the  Executive Board and the Secretariat, The United States  delegation would therefore be very reluctant to approve  it forthwith,
(32) Mrs. BIRD (Canada) seconded the delegate of the  United States of Arherica, considering it too important  a matter to be dealt with in the course of a briefdebate,
(33) Mr. FKANAYAKA (Ceylon) pointed out that such  centres, if the project were approved, should be set up  in areas where the greatest ignorance about Unesco's  work prevailed; if Latin America were one of them,  then it would be appropriate to set up a centre there.  On the other hand, a preliminary study might reveal  that other areas stood in greater need of such acentre.
(34) Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) pointed out that, as the  Assistant Director-General had already indicated,  the Argentine proposal had a close bearing on ‘other  organizations existing in Latin America, such ds the  Regional Office for, the Western Hemisphere in Havana  and others. He was against an immediate vote on the  Argentine draft resolution as Cuba had submitted ..  another draft resolution {document 8C/DR/ 26), which  the Executive Board had referred to the Programme  Commission, and which was concerned with the Havana  Regional Office.… That resolution would be discussed  under, Chapter 7 of the programmo.  A vote on the, Argentine proposal at the ‘stage reached  might be detrimental to Cuba, since the Havana Office  already covered all aspects of Unescois programms  with the exception of the natural sciences, whichwere  handled by the Montevideo Office. The Argentine pro-  posal might affect the centres already in existence and,  as the Commission had to look into the work of the .  Havana Office, it would be natural to defer any decision  on the Argentine proposal until then. .  The proposal was of the greatest importance. and,  delegations should examine it in the spirit of co- --  operation to which the French delegate had referred  in appealing for a frank and open discussion. The   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  : Assistant Directbr- General had stated that the Argen-  tise proposal would necessitate a'review of Unesço!s  mtire policy with égard to decentralization’: The  example set by the General Conference at iis eighth -  session should be followéd, At that Conference Ît was  decided to establish a committee or working party to  consider that policy and go into the’ problems involved  from the point of view of economy and efficiency. Such  a procedure signified reviewing Unesco's entire ad-  ministrative policy, Oyer = centralization was harm-  ful, and it should not be concluded that something  that had been built up and had done useful work to the  satisfaction of à whole region should be destroyed,  The Argentine draft resolution should be submitied  to a committee consisting of, represen ativés of dif-  ferent regions and studied in conjunciton with the study  of the work of the Havana Regional Office,  Mr, Chediak formally moved the adjournment of the  debate on the item under discussion, in virtue o  Rules 75 and 76 of the Confer ence's Rules of Pro-  cedure, mentioning as a precedent the suspension of  a discussion at the Commission's first meeting on  the proposal of the delegation of Uruguay. In con-  clusion he askéd for the establishment of a workirig  party to examine the Argentine and Cuban proposals  together.
(35) Mrs, TEJEIRA (Pânaina) seconded the Cuban  motion and asked that the whole system of Unesco's  relations with Latin America be reviewed, The pro-  blem of decentralization was an important one and the  committee set up to study it should include members  from other regions,
(36) Mr. CAILLET-BOIS (Argentina) stated thathe  had no objection to accepting the Cuban proposal,  {37) Mr, CHEDIAK (Cuba) stressed that the committee  he proposed should include representatives of all  regions interested in decentralization, in studying the  Argentine and Cuban proposals, and in any other simi-  lar topic.  {38) .On a point of ‘order, Mr, SOFBROTO (Indonesia)  questioned the desirability ‘of setting up a working .  party ac proposed by the delegate of Cuba. A working  party on decentralization had sat in Montevideo and  hid requested that the Director-General continue to  study the question oyer the following two years, Before  agreeing to the establishment of another working party,  Mr. Soebroto wished to know the result of that study.
(39) Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) reminded the indonesian  delégate that resolution v.14, ni 22 of the eighth session  of the General Conference authorized the Director-  General to study the question of decentralization, What  was requested at the moment was the continuation of  the work begun at that Conference, The committee  he was proposing would be able to make a systematic  and logical study of à problem that could not be solved  -by means of interminable discussion in the ¢ Programme  Commission, _ 2  Syd FEES RE 4%
(40) : Mrs; SAUNTE' (Denmark) agreed with former  speskèrs that the mattér was too important.to be dealt  with by.a working party in two or. three days. Dele-  gations should be given time to discuss it at length
387  IV-16  with their National Commissions on their refus n home,
(41) Mr, WEEDEN' (Australis) seconded the ‘delegate  of Denmark and asked the delegate of Cuba if he would  change his amendment, requesting that the Executive  Board consider thé proposal aftér the Conference.
(42) Mrs. TEJEIRA (Panama) explained that the reason  for which she was supporting the Cuban delegate was  that the efficiency of decentralization and, it appeared,  the question whether the activity of the Havana Regional  Office was to be curtailed, would be discussed. If was  - of the greatest importance that decentralization be dis-  cussed by representatives of all the regions interested,  ‘either in a working party, as Mr, Chediak had proposed,  or in the Programme Commission itself, The Regional  Office in the Western Hemisphere should be reinforced.  In the light of what the Assistant Director-General had  said, a discussion on decentralization had become urgent.  Provided that the Argentine draît resolution did not  weaken the Havana Office, the delegation of Panama  would support it, as it had much to recommend it.
(43) Mrs, BIRD (Canada) asked whether the whole  question,would not come up again under item 9. 8.4  of the agenda, when the Commission would be discuss-  ing document 9C/PRG/22.
(44) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) agreed,  The Commission would have to reconsider the question  under Chapter 7, General Resolutions, of the Proposed  Programme,
(45) Mr. CAILLET-BOIS (Argentina) wished to ex-  plain that, while he agreed to the postponement of the  discussion, his delegation had nothing to discuss with  that of Cuba. The Argentine proposal was not in any  way detrimental to the Havana Office, which his dete-  gation supportéd and would continue to support,
(46) Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) reiterated his request for  postponém nt in acéordance with thé Rules of Procedure  he had quoted previously. “Replying t to the Danish  delegate, he explained that his proposed committee  should inélude, as he had alréady. said, ‘représentutives  of all the regions interested in decentralization,  Discussion on the Argentine resolution should be post-  poned, so that | it could be considered at the same time  as other drafts and items bearing on the policy of  decentralization. It did not much matter which body  studied them; what mattered was that everyone should  co-operate in promoting the aims of the Organization  in the best possible way.
(47) I was agreed to adjourn’ the discussion on docu-  ment 9C/DR/50 until the Commission Feñshed item
9.8. 4 of the agenda.
(48) Mi, BERKELEY (Secretary) anounced. ad ï he  Commissiën had to vote again on the Australian ç pro-  posal to reduce the estimate’ proposed. in paragraph
151 of the Social Sciences chapter by $1, "160, . The  vote had been divided and, under the Rules of Procedure,  the Commission was obliged to vote again within 48  hours. :
(49) Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) expibiiod mit is   IV-17 PROGRAUME  delegation had made its proposal in‘order. to influence  the work plans, Having achieved that object, since it  had réceivéd an assurance that the publication would ;  not be called & yearbook and that the Director-General  would try to include it among the Department's normal  publications, the Australian delegation had pleasure in  withdrawing its motion,  COMMUISSION
(50) Mr, UNAKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  asked the Chairman to inform delegates, one meeting .  in advance, of the documents and draft resolutions to  be discussed, so that the Commission would be able tg  finish its work within the ‘presoribed time, -  The meeting rose at 5 p.m.  SEVENTEENTH MEETING  ‘24 November 1956, at 9,30 a.m.  Chairman: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)  EMERGENCY EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE TO HUNGARY, AND |  EGYPT (document 90/DR/ 128)
(1) Mi. MAHEU (Uhesco ‘Roprééentathye à at thé United  Nations) said that the Belgian delegation had submitted  a draft resolution (document 9C/DR/ 125) on emergency  educational assistance to Hungary and Fgypl. . At Îts  last meeting, the’ general ‘¢ommitjee had decided to  admit the draft resolution and fo refer it to the Pro:,  gramme, Commission,’ If ity were adopted, it Would be  insertéd as an amen endment | to paragraph , 222 o  Chapter | ("Education"), ‘of, the. proposed programine  and budget. Under Rule 144, ,paragraph 2, , of the  Rules, of Procedure, ‘whey ea proposal tou” A ‘getivi-  ties to be, undertaken. by Vrieses related to malters  that were of difect, Soncern | to the, United Nations of  one or more Specialized Agenc! eb,’ the Director:  General shou draw the attenti at the meeting to the  implications o the’ Fropoail as the ‘Générät Contérence  should satiafy ilself thai adéquate consultations had  face, In accordance with that provision,’ he  te give the Co min ission some ‘information that
0 i de in studying the’ substance of, the  oposa al, by  y ily concerned, the ry  taken  wish  would be ui Belgien Ejauak  So far. ar Huy ry       ir À  A, Af reg  SEE Gedétat 3 el General ‘Assembly’ request fel  in consultation Sith the es 5  Agencies; to iniqiiire! into usa nééda, ‘especially  in food and medical’ supplie, and to submit a report.  The Directér-Geriéral had sod that formation on  to thé General Corimittés and ad guid that! ‘in nié  née was  dss EI 5         that, ata later hol i‘ the United Nations ction, the  Hungarian people's needs in the educational,” scientific  and cultural spheres would become clearer, and that    Ta  the Beiglan : resolution Would fay | into place’ In’ he system  of co-operation with the United Nations, He rt  suggested {hat the text be made clearer and that the  element of doubt in the wording of paragraph. RUN oft |  draft be eliminated, The last paragraph but one pro-  vided for the conduct of inquiries,, Those inqulriés’  which might be carried out ejther through’ question-  naires, or through the sending of migélons to thé spat,  could usefully be co-ordinated by. the Secretary. ’  General of the United Nations, ° 80 as to. avold any over  lapping. In conclusion, he pointed out that Unesco  had already co- operated, dering assistance, with  Uniitd Nations Agencies "sdk as UNRWA and UNKRA,  its rôle being mainly to supply expert supervisory staff  in those fields falling within its competence, '
(2) ‘The, ‘CHAIRMAN’ ‘indicâtéd that draft Pésolution’
9C/DR/} 125 rélated to thé programme of the Depaitæient  of Fdücation and would be considered during discussion  of the programme of that Department. She thought the  Programme ‘Commission should request some indica-  tion of the cost of implementing that resolution, togèther  with suggestions as to how that sum would be provided.  v  tt  rr 0% de fa noue : CULTURAL Aorvimus REE  (docknents: vo/s wd Addwnce and Cormljenite) : ;  or i éériééxiéa with the orogr iris at the D patin nt  ‘ot Cultural Activities, the CHAIRMAN recalled that’  certaiñ items were being stidied by working peties -  of the Comnilasion and proposed that the reporté of -  those working parties be considered during eocusain  “of the item concerhed.’ ' She called on the Director of  the Departinent to introduce his programme, ce  («y Mi KIRPAU tatisie Dirbétor,- Department dt a . + ;  "Cultural Activities) drew attention to the premio  "befor thé méeting;' and ic a number’ of special reports  relating to the programme of his D , subs" 7  mitted by thé Director-General; ‘ documents 9C/PRG/S;
8C/PRG/10 and Addendum.’ He then introduced the <  programe of his Department, ss contained In mode