PROGRAMME COMMISSION IV-36  THIRTY-SIXTH MEETING
3 December 1956, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman; Mr. ANAS (Afghanistan)  MEMAGE OF GREETINGS TO THE PRESIDENT OF INDIA
(1) ‘The CHAIRMAN wished, on behalf of the ‘  Programme Commission, to convey his sincere  greetings to the President and to the people of India  on the occasion of the President's seventy- second  birthday.  REPORT ON THE STATUS OF EXECUTION OF THE PROGRAMME  oF AD TO MEMBER STATES (documents 9C/PRG/18 and Corrigendum,
9C/PRG/PROV/4 and 20/DR/12)
(2 Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  introduced the report on the status of execution of the  programme of Aid to Member States (document
9C/PRG/18 and Corrigendum).  He recalled that the General Conference at iis  eighth session had voted an amount of $1,009,330 for  the Ald programme; after urgent requests had been  . received in respect of fundamental education, that had  been increased to $1 ,123,330 by transferring funds  from the Education chapter to fundamental education  activities in the Aid programme. The Director-  General had proposed a total for Aid activities in
1957-1958 of $1,603,484. The Commission had  already approved the financial implications of the Aid  programme individually in connexion with its study of  the six chapters of the budget. A comparison of the  funds for 1955-1956 and 1957-1958 showed an apparent  increase of half a million dollars; but in fact, two  types of commitments, involving approximately  $500,000 each, were being carried over from the  current budget; namely, plaaned projects which had  besu budgeted for seperately in 1955-1956, such as  assistance for the language training centre in Korea  and the public library project in Colombia, and the  contract commitments towards experts who had nat  yet completed their missions, There remained  accordingly a sum of $600,000, which was to be used  to meet new requests from Member States.  He then called attention to the salient features of the  report and iu partivoler to paragraphs 4 to 7. ‘The  Ald programme had undergone some delay in view of  the leigthy planning requir )d; however, that careful  planning had ensured that lie programme was begun  along sound linés:‘ The Director-General had taken  all steps to achieve co-ora'nation and integration,  both at the national and at the international level, and  especially in respect of the United Nations Technical  Assistance programme.  Turning to Table 1 (pages T to 9), he said that, as of
1 November, 19 out of the totul of 94 approved posts  for experts, and 40 out of thé total of 131 fellowships  approved, remained to be filled, while $60,000 out of  the total approved sum of $222,348 for equipment had  still to be obligated In all, $810,000 of the total of  some $1,123,000 had already been obligated and it was
527  expected that a further $150,000 or $180,000 would be  by the end of the year; the remainder would be  available to meet deficits in the Organization's budget.  Annex 1 of the report gave assessments of the results  of specific projects, It was to be noted in general that  the short- “term advisory experts were often requested  by Member States to undertike training of personnel,  which it was clearly ‘not possible for them to do ina  short space of time.  He drew the Commission's attention to the proposed  change in terminology; in future the’ Aid programme  would be known as the programme of Participation in  Member States’, activities, which more closely  described its functions’: He wished to call atiention  also to the principles and conditions for the grant of  aid to Membér States (contained in ‘doéument 9C/5  Corrigendum 1, Introduction, Appendix I), drawn up  in accordance with resolution IV, 3, 22 of the eighth  session, on which the comments of Member States to  the Executive Board and to the Director-General were  requested; it should be noted that administrative  arrangements for the Participation programme would  thereby be brought into line with the Technical  Assistance programme, thus simplifying the situation  for Member States.  He stressed that, by its very nature, the Partici-  pation programme would always involve continuing  commitments; furthermore, its activities would be  advisory rather than operational in character.
(3) The CHAIRMAN invited comments on the report.  {4) Mrs. WADIA (India) said that her delegation had  been deeply impressed by the report and approved the  change of title of the programme, She would appeal  that, in allocating the $600,000 of uncommitted funds  available for Ald to Member States in 1957-1958,  first priority should be given to requests in respect  of those fields where the United Nations Technical  Assistance programme did not operate. The  Director-General would then use any funds remaining  after those needs had been met for field work covered  by the Technical Assistance programme,
(3) Mr, FRANCOIS (France), after expressing his  regret that the Commission was taking up the exami-  nation of the report on the execution of the programme  of Aid to Member States at such a late stage, said  that the report described the conditions in which  Une£co had carried out activities of & new type during
1955-1956, and how it proposed extending such  activities. The Participation programme strongly  resembled that of Technical Assistance, which was  becoming increasingly promineat in Unesco's pro-  gramme, and he thought that the two activities should  be closely co-ordinated in order to avuid duplication  of effort. At the same time, the conception and   Iv-3% PROGRAMME  execution of the Participation programme should be  in the hands of the programme Departments, which  would evaluate the results achieved for the better  guidance of their future work, Mr. François  therefore deplored the fact that among the principles  and conditions for the grant of aid to Member States  (document 9C/5, futroduction, Appendix II, parsgiaph
118 et seq.) no reference was made to the programme  activities which were to include aid projects.
(6) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) remarked that, however  satisfactory Unesco's efforts to aid Member States  might be, they were infinitesimal in comparison with  the needs set forth by the Member States in their  requests. For that reason, the Secretariat should  make sure that the "token" aid afforded was used in  the most effective possible way. It was therefore  necessary, as the French delegate had pointed out, to  link up the Participation programme with the regular  programme activities. The Secretariat should keep  a check on whether Participation activities were really  being carried out in the fields listed under that  heading in each chapter of the proposed programme.  The requests submitted by Member States should be  examined not only by the administrative services and  the programme Departments concerned but also by  those responsible for drawing up the report au the  activities of Member States, so that the latter might  show clearly that the Member States concerned were  carrying out certain programme activities with  Unesco's assistance.
(7) Mr. RAADI (tran) agreed that it was important to  maintain a balance between general activities, special  activities and activities under the Participation  programme, Hz did not consider that the extension of  Participation activities was liabie to harm the general  programme, but rather thought that 12 would  strengthen it. Eventually it should lead to a close  association between the activities of Member States  ard the programme.  He supported the Indian representative's proposal  that, in the Participation programme, priority should  be given to activities that were not eligible for  Technical Assistance.
(8) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  replied to the points raised in the discussion. He  assured the delegate of France that the planning of  the Perticipation programme was from the outset the  responsibility of the programme Departments, which  closely co-ordinated those activities with the general  programme. That was why it had not been considered  necessary to mention that point among the criteria  guiding the Director-General éontained in Appendix  II. Thus, the Participation programme was integ-  rated within the framework of the general activities;  Technical Assistance projects, however, remained  separate. The warning given by the delegate of  Lebanon that projects should be constantly re-  appraised was an essential one, and he would assure  him that that would be done, with due regard for the  objectives of the Organization,  With regard to the Indian proposal, which he  supported in principle, he would point out that the  Director-General operated the programme in accord-  ance with specific decisions adopted by the General
528     COMMISSION  Conference; there was therefore little practical  leeway to transfer funds from ony chapter to another,  He would emphasize that the planning of the total  resources available took into account the consideration  that some activities could benefit from Technical  Assistance funds; the Executive Board had expressed  its satisfaction with the equilibrium achieved, The  Direcior-General had the right at all times between  sessions to request authority from the Executive  Board to make transfers, but he could hold out Little  hope of meeting the proposal of the delegate of India,  Both the discussion and the personal conversations  he had had with del2gations had shown that the Parti-  cipation programme should be maintained and that it  was a definite contribution towards achieving the  Organization's aims.
(8) The report on the status of execution of the  programme of Aid to Member States was «pproved,
(10) Mrs. WADIA (India) introduced the revised text,  contained in document 9C/PRG/PROV/4, of the draft  resolution submitted by India on assistance to Member  States in the fields of cultural activities (document
9C/DR/732). She had agreed to redraft her resolution  but wished to make it quite clear that it did not express  a pious hope où the part of the Indian delegation bul  rather a real aspiration that such financial adjusiments  should event. ¢:lly be made; her delegation placed  great confidence in the Director-General and therefore  hoped that additional funds might be made available by  the method set out in the draft resolution during tbe
1957-1958 budget period, so that at least a beginning  could be made on projects such as the Theatre Centre  for Asia. She had been surprised {0 sce that para-  graph 7 of Chapter 4, Cultural Activities, in document
9C/5, referred to a "considerable increase" in the  funds aveilable under that chapter, as the figures did  not appear to justify such a qualification.
(11) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  explained that the provisions for cultural activities  had shown an increase of $154,000 in the budget  proposals, which was larger than that shown by any of  the other chapters.  He called attention to an inaccuracy in the Indian  draft resolution. The Technical Assistance pro-  gramme did in fact provide for assistance in respect  of some libraries, museums and reading material for  new literates. He wondered whether the delegate of  India would be prépared to modify her draft resolution  by deleting the reference to reading materia! and  amending the reference to libraries and museums so  that it referred to “certain forms of library and  museum development".
(12) Mr. KIRPAL (Acting Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) called the attention of the Indian  delegate to the reference, in paragraph 7 of Chapter
4, to three longer-term projects; the considerable  increase mentioned had been mainly due to the  transfer of those three activities to the Participation  programme. Only a small number of libraries and  museums wera eligible for assistance from T  Assistance funds. Reading material on a low level  could be financed by the Technical Assistance pro-  gramme, but not material which corresponded   PROGRAMME  to the level dealt with in activities under Chapter 4.
(13) Mrs. WADIA (ladia) nots that the increase for  cultural activities could not be onsidered a real  increase in the funds available. She would retain her  reference to reading material as it was precisely the  cultural level which the Indian draft resolution sought  to protect. While definite proposals could later be  made in respect of 1950-1960, ghe hoped none the less  that it would eventually prove possible for adjustments  to be made in the 1957-1958 budget to meet the point  raised in the draft resolution.
(14) The Indian draft resolution (document
9C/PRG/PROV/4) was adopted by 34 votes to none,  with 6 abstentions.  ITEM 9.4.1 OF THE AGENDA : POSSIBLE REGULATION OF  INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES OF PUBLICATIONS  {documents 9C/PRG/5 and 23)
(15) Mr. KUYPERS (Belgium) (Rapporteur of Working  Party No. 5) stated that the Working Partyproposed the  adoption of a resolution recommending the preparation  of one or more international agreements.  {16) The resolution appearing in paragraphs 12 to 15  of Section II of document 9C/PRG/28 was adopted by
43 votes in favour, with 2 abstentions.  {TEM 9.4.2 OF THE AGENDA : FARTICIPATION OF UNESCO IN  TEE PREPARATION OF A "RAFT INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT  FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE INTERESTS OF FERFORMERS,  RECORDERS AND BROADCASTERS (documents 9C/PRG/6 and  Adendum 1)  (M Mr, KUYPERS (Belgium) (Rapporteur of Workiig  Party No. 5) stated that the question of "neighbouring"  rights had been raised for the first time at the  Brussels Conference in 1948. An agreement had been  reached among the three organizations interested -  Unasco, the Bureau of the International Union for the  Protection of Literary and Artistic Works, and the  International Labour Office - for the convening of an  international conference at the beginning of 1956, to  draw up à convention for the protection of the interests  of performers, recorders and broadcasters.  The Working Partyhad recommended that the con-  ference should be preceded by a meeting of 8 commit-  tee of exports, invited jointly by Unesco and the Berne  Bureau, which would be held at the beginning of 1957.  At that meeting, the International Labour Organisation  would be represented by an observer and the experts  would have to study the substance of the problems  involved. Their findings would be communicated to the  Executive Board, for it was desirable, as the Spanish  and United States representatives had pointed out, to  resch an agreement az principle before the holding of  the intergovernmental conference.
(18) The CHAIRMAN expresged appreciation of the  work accomplished by the Working Party.
(10) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) stated  tha the Governing Body of ILO had just approved a  procedure similar to that which the Director-General  had proposed to the General Conference (document  COMMISSION     IV-36
9C/PRG/6, Addendum 1, paragraph 2), in agreement  with the Berne Union. It would therefore be possible  for the three ouganizations to co-operate in a spirit  of mutual understanding based on the same principles,  {20) Mr, JORDANA DE POZAS (Spain) said that his  delegation, which had always recognized the great  importance of all matters concerning copyright,  the resolution submitted by Working Party  No. 5 as a result of its discussion.  He expressed his satisfaction at the agreement  reached between the Director-General and the  International Labour Office on the subject, and added  that he considered it only right to congratulate the  Director-General on the agreement which, as was  well known, had not been easy to achieve.
(21) Mr. CALO (Italy) approved the proposal for the  study of "neighbouring rights" and suggested that the  committee of experts should also look into the question  of the moral rights of authors whose works might be  distceted, e.g. , through the publication of extracts or  selections.
(22) The CHAIRMAN said that the Secretariat would  take note of that suggestion,
(23) The resolution contained in Section III, paragraphs
19 to 22, of document 9C/PRG/26 wes adopted by 38  votes to none, with 7 abstentions.  REVMED REPORT OF WORKING PARTY No.7 ON THE FREE  FLOW OF INFORMATION (doc ment 9C/PRG/31 Rev.)
(24) Mr. GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) said that the Chairman of the Working  Party on the Free Flow of Information, who had been  prevented from attending the meeting, had requested  him to present the Working Party's report (document
9C/PRG/31 Rev.). As the report and the rocommend-  ation therein represented the unanimous view of the  Working Party, it had been suggested by the Working  Party that the Programme Commission might wish to  proceed immediately to vote on the report.
(235) The report of the Working Party on the Free Flow  of Information was adopted unanimously.  Work plans for Member States
(26) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  pointed cut that the Commission had approved the  report of the Committee on Reports of Member States  (document 9C/PRG/2), which proposed that the Confer-  ence request the Director-General to prepare a work  plan for the guidance of Member States in the imple-  mentation of certain resolutions, In that connexion,  the Secretariat suggested that the Programme Com-  mission approve the choice of resolutions 1.32  (Education), 2.41 (Natural Sciences), 3. 72 (Social  Sciences), on which the Commission had already  decided, 4. T2 (Cultural Activities), 5.52 (Mass  Communication) and 6.31 (Exchange of Persons).
(27) The choice of the resolutions proposed by the  Secretariat was approved.   IV-36  ITEM 9.8.2 OF THE AGENDA : REPORT ON THE ESTABLISUMENT  OF AN INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR EDUCATION, SCIENCE AND  CULTURE (documents 9C/PRG/20 and 9Ç/DR/137)
(28) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  reminded the meeting that the study in question had  been undertaken in pursuance of resolution IV,1,7.6  adopted by the General Conference at its eighth  session. At its 429d session, the Executive Board  had invited the Director-Geueral to contirue his con-  sultations on that subject. By 15 August 1056, the  Secretariat had received only 19 replies from Member  States, some of which were in favour of the establish-  nfent of the fund while others raised serious objections.  The Director-General had also consulted the United  Nationa on the question, with particular reference to  the proposals for the establishment of SUNFED,  Moreover, the Eighteenth International Conference on  Public Education and the Conference on Free and  Compulsory Education in Latin America had also  discussed the question without arriving at any very  positive result. The Director-General was therefore  not in a poeition to make precise proposals on the  subject at the moment. He did, however, indicate  (document 9C/PRG/20, Section 11) how the fund might  be administered, if it were decided to establish it.
(29) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) pointed  out that the proposal to establish the fund had been  approved by the Montevideo Conference by 30 votes to
10, with 2 abstentions. He recognized that, with the  international situation as it was, it would be risky to  establish the fund immediately, but he felt that the  Director-General should continue to make active  efforts ty that end, A letter to Member States was not  enough t¢ arouse the interest of those Member States  which might take up the important question involved,  or to call forth their reactions.  He stressed that the object was not to establish a  new budget, to which Member States would have to  make contributions, but that the fund was to be  supplied from donations made possible by reductions  in the enormous military expenditure of the present  day. Such reductions might come about suddenly and  it was important that the Director-General, in agree-  ment with the Executive Board, should prepare a  preliminary project for submission to the General  Conference at its tenth session. The States which had  supported the proposal should not be led to believe that  Unesco was abandoning it.
(30) Mr. BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia) said that,  before he spoke on the question, he would like to hear  the views of the Director -General's representative on  the Brasilian delegates 's propossl.
(31) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) stated  that the Director-General was prepared to carry out  resolution 9C/DR/137.
(32) Mr. HUNT (United States of America) thought it  significant that, as shown in document 9C/PRG/20,  paragraph 5, only 16 Member States had replied to the  Director-General's circular letter and that, of those
16, a number had referred to the possibility of over-  lapping with SUNFED, as well as to the probiems  involved in adding to the financial burdens which were
530     PROGRAMME COMMISSION  being felt by both large and small countries.  He wes sure that the Commission was fully aware  of the great interest which the United States of Amarics  had shewn, and was continuing to show, in assisting  econoniic dav~lopment. However, the proposal under  consideration would result in the creation of yet  another fund to be added to the mary which already  existed within the United Nations framework, He  would recall that the United States of America had  increased its pledge for the Technical Assistance  programme for 1956 to $15,500,000, on condition that  the participation of all other contributors together  matched that sum; that had not happened and accord-  ingly the United States of America had paid less than  it had originally been prepared to do. That had also  occurred in respect of another United Nations fund.  Even UNICEF, which was well known throughout the  world for its valuable work, was unable to reach its  target figure for contributions. The Negotiating  C‘ommittee set up by the United Nations in connexion  with such contributions had presented a discouraging  report on the situation. Such a record threw serious  doubt on the desirability of establishing a new fund,  particularly as the United Nations was considering  the possibility of including assistance for education  within the Technical Assistance programme.  His delegation was fully prepared to accept a pro-  posal that the Director-General should undertake a  further study of the matter. However, that should be  done without raising too many false hopes but with a  view to obtaining a fuller picture of the situation for  the tenth session of the General Conference, when the  position could be re-examined. It would be clearly  premature to ask for any plan, as had been proposed  in the Brazilian draft resolution, on the basis of the  replies s0 far received,  He accordingly proposed the following amendment  to the Brazilian draft resolution: the substitution,  in paragraph 2 (b), of the words "prepare a further  study on the proposed International Fund for Education,  Science and Culture" for the words "prepare a  preliminary plan for the operation and structure of the  International Fund for Education, Science and Culture";  and the substitution, in paragraph 2 (c), of the words  "on the feasibility of the project under consideration”  for the words "with a view to the possible execution of  the project under consideration”. He hoped the dele-  gate of Brazil would find it possible to accept that  slight modification. The matter would thus be kept  open for reconsideration by the tenth session.
(33) Mrs. WADIA (India) said that her delegation  would be in favour of the establishment of such a fund  and would welcome a further study ci its possibilities.  It would be a matter for deep regret if such a proposal  were to be abandoned.  India had been one of the countries which had not  sent in a reply to the Director-CGeneral's letier, 26 its  reply had been embodied in the comments submitted  on the proposed programme and budget. Furthermore,  her Government was slso awaiting news of develop-  ments in the United Nations General Assembly with  regard to SUNFED. Possibly the lack of response  could be attributed to various reasons and should not  be taken to demonstrate conclusively lack of interest  on the part of the majority of Member States.   PROGRAMME COMMISSION IvV-36
(34) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) said that  he could not approve the United States' proposal. In  his opinion, what the promoters of the fund requested  was a minimum in relation to the desires of Member  States.  He felt that the small number of replies received  did not mean that the question was of no interest to  Member States; even Brazil had not replied to the  letter. The matter should be discussed at the session  of the Conference.  He pointed out that the proposal for the fund was  based on the idea of a substantial reduction in arma-  ments, which might very well come about from one  day to the next. He also emphasized that the object of  SUNFED was economic development and concerned  education, science and culture only as regarded the  construction of schools.
(35) Mr. RAADI (Iran) unreservedly supported draft  resolution 6C/DR/137 and hoped that the United States  representative would agree to accept it after the  statements made by the Indian and Brazilian  representatives,
(36) Mr. BARON CASTRO (El Salvador) said that his  country was one of those which had sent à favourable  answer to the Director-General's letter with regard  to the establishment of an International Fund for  Education, Science and Culture; he agreed with the  Brazilian delegate that Unesco required greater  financial backing. .  Unesco's budget could not be considered adequate,  given the extent of the Organization's tasks, and he  pointed out that some countries, including his own,  devoted larger sums to cultural purposes. What the  Brazilian delegation was asking for was that the pro-  cedure begun at the Montevideo Conference be con-  tinued, and the only novelty in the proposal was the  reference to a preliminary plan. In other words, the  object was to proceed from consultation to preliminary  He felt that it would not be enough to do again what  had been done two years earlier when the subject had  first been discussed at Montevideo and that something  more than further consultation was called for. He did  Bot agree with the United States representative, who  was against the submission of à preliminary plan for  consideration by the General Conference at its next  session, and said that, where building was concerned,  plans had to be carefully examined in order to discover  exactly how the work would develop.  He said that, if agreement had been reached in  Montevideo to consider the idea, it was logical that  the general outline of the project should now be sub-  mitted to Member States, in accordance with the  Brazilian resolution. He agreed with all three  paragraphs of the draft.
(37 Mr. FRANCOIS (France) feared that the number  of funds established in recent years might make their  financing difficult, and suggested that the United  Nations might be recommended to include questions of  concern to Unesco in SUNFED's programme of  activities.
(38) Mr. EKANAYAKA (Ceylon) said that his country,  although it was committed to the extent of 140,000,000
531  rupees for current expenditure on education, and of
10,000,000 rupees for capital expenditure, was heartily  in favour of the Brazilian proposal, Unesco at the  moment functioned above all as a catalysing agent and  its achievements were limited because of the limited  funds at its disposal, It would be most desirable for  Unesco to have a large fund with which to operate and  it would be unwise to place too much hope in SUNFED,  which might not prove of direct help. The Brazilian  proposal presented a concrete way of keeping the  matter open for future consideration, and ho would  support it.
(39) Mr, BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia) said that his  delegation had examined the report contained in  document 9C/PRG/20, and the Brazilian draft resolu-  tion, with great interest, He added that all those who  had attended the current and previous sessions of the  Conference, or regional meetings dealing with educa-  tional matters, knew perfectly well that the most diffi-  cult problem was that of finance. That was the first  thought entering the minds of delegrtes when they  received reports relating to the project for the exten-  sion of free and compulsory primary education in  Latin America. Hundreds of thousands of children did  not go to school because the countries in which they  lived could not bear the cost of educating them, and it  was necessary to find a formula which would put an  end to that situation, since it was of fundamental  importance for Unesco to develop the education of the  rising generation in the love of culture and peace,  He did not think it could be said that the countries  which had not replied to the inquiry were not interested  in the problem, as it was one which affected everybody,  It affected those which lacked the means to solve it and  it affected the others because they should help to raise  the cultural and economic standards of the world in  gencral. The Conference of Ministers of Education of  the Latin American countries held in Lima had agreed  to support the establishment of an International Fund  for Education and Culture and, among other possibilities,  mention had been made of requesting loans from the  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.  He therefore submitted the following proposal;  "Authorizes the Director-General to tranamit to the  President and to the Board of Governors of the Inter-  national Bank for Reconstruction and Development the  request of the General Conference that the Bank finance  educational work by means of loans for the construction  of schools, colleges and universities;  And to invite the governments of those Member  States which are also members of the International  Bank for Reconstruction and Development to request  that body through its Governors, should they consider  it opportune, to finance the capital investment neces-  sary for carrying out educational programmes being  conducted by Member States, "'  In conclusion he said that, as man was the noblest of  living beings, it was essential to raise his cultural  standards. It was net enough to provide funds for  material projects. Nothing would do more for the  future of mankind than the provision of education for all.
(40) Mr. FATONE (Argentina) said that he did not  wish to prolong the meeting and would therefore contine  himself to supporting the Brazilian proposal and the  Colombian amendment. He did not consider it too much   Iv-36 PROGRAMME  to ask the Director-General to continue the study of a  project already discussed by the General Conference  at Montevideo,
(41) Sir Richard BOYER (Australia) said that all would  agree that a greater flow of funds to Unesco was much  to be desired, However, the manner in which govern-  ments were approached was of the utmost importance,  as they were on the whole inclined to favour specific  projects rather than a general fund. He would support  the United States proposal that further information be  obtained, and believed that no measures should be  taken until more specific sims had been established.
(42) Mr, JORDANA DE FOZAS (Spain) supported the  Brazilian resolution and the Colombian amendment.  He observed that the Conference had opened at a  difficult time and the delegates who had had to travel  thousands of miles to attend it had not been certain  that it would end in normal conditions. Fortunately it  had, and he had been happy to find that, in general,  agreement had been reached on all the items of the  agenda in spite of the tension in which the proceedings  had begun.  Referring to the work that Unesco was doing, he  observed that, while it was of great value, it had to be  considered in ali its aspects, Above all, the lack of  proportion between the Organization's aims and the  financial means at its disposal for putting them into  effect - which was & serious handicap - had to be  taken into account. If the Organization could not count  on increased financial support, it would be difficult  for it to attain the objectives for which it had been  established,  He said that the Brazilian proposal was an act of  faith in Unesco rather than a mere resolution, and for  that reason he did not think that the generous idea  behind it should be dropped, especially as it had no  budgetary implications.  He described the Colombian amendment as providing  a temporary solution to à most serious problem, while  the Brazilian proposal merely kept up hope ‘and pointed  the way to its realization.  In conclusion he denied that the pursuit of the  project would lead to overlapping as, in reality, it  merely seconded the work of the United Nations.
(43) Mr. PINO SAAVEDRA (Chile) said that the  project needed no speech from him to defend it. He  would therefore restrict himself to supporting the  Brazilian and Colombian proposals, which had  already been supported by the Spanish delegate, with  whose remarks hé was in agreement. If it was  important to carry out the projects put forward,  there should be no hesitation in approving proposals  such as those of Brazil and Colombia, which would  serve the cause of culture.
(44) Mr. HUNT (United States of America) said that  no one would dispute the importance of education as  an objective. However, he wondered whether it was  realistic to suggest the opening of a new fund in view  of the negative impression produced by the reaction  of Member States and in view of the world  situation. The situation in 1958 might be more  propitious to such a scheme and, for that  reason, he would maintain his amendment, which
532     COMMISSION  would enable the position to be reconsidered then.  If the Chairman proposed to take a vote on the  Colombian proposal, he requested that the text be  circulated.
(45) Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) stated  that he maintained his resolution without amendment.
(46) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that the Colombian amendment raised  certain technical difficulties, With regard to the first  part, Unesco and the International Bank had no  working agreement. With regard to the second, a  request that Member States of Unesco which were  also members of the Bank should take action on given  lines within that body might be considered as inter-  ference on the part of the Organization in the affairs  of another Specialized Agency.
(47) Mr, BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia) had listened  with great interest to what had been said by the  Assistant Director-General and pointed out that the  tirst part of his proposal would not involve any country.  Ways of financing the project to extend schooling in  Latin America had to be found, and the International  Bank could co-operate by granting loans in the service  of mankind, for a higher level of education would do  much to advance economic development.  So far as the second part of his proposal was con-  cerned, he said that the Bank could not look unfavour-  ably on what had been described as interference.  When the meeting of Ministers of Education of the  Latin American countries, held in Lima, had asked  the Secretary-General of the Organization of American  States to recommend a similar request, he had raised  no objection whatsoever,  In conclusion, he maintained that his proposal  deserved consideration.
(48) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil), raising  a point of order, stated that, while he was in favour of  the Colombian proposal, he would ask for a separate  vote to be taken on the resolution he had submitted.  The Commission should vote first on the United States  amendment, then on the Brazilian draft resolution  {document 9C/DR/137) and finally on the Colombian  proposal.
(49) Mrs. WADIA (India) also considered that the  Brazilian and Colombian proposals should be taken  as two separate draft resolutions. The granting of  loans for education would be most valuable and she  could not see that an expression of that desire on the  part of the Member States which were members of the  International Bank could be taken as interference in its  affairs,
(50) The CHAIRMAN said that he would put to the  vote the United States amendment, followed by the  Brazilian draft resolution. The Colombian text would  be voted upon when it had been circulated to  delegations present.
(51) Mr, FALARDEAU (Canada) supported the United  States amendment which, in his view, left the sub-  stance of draft resolution 9C/DR/137 unchanged and  at the same time eliminated any danger of a premature   PROGRAMME  decision, By deleting the last part of paragraph (c) of  the proposal, any future misunderstanding would be  avoided,
(52) Mr, BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia) said that,  after discussion with the Secretariat, he wished to  withdraw the second part of his proposal, while  maintaining the first part, reading as follows: "That  the Director-General be authorized to transmit to the  President and to the Board of Governors of the  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development  the request of the General Conference that the Bank  finance educational work by means of loans for the  construction and equipment of schools, colleges and  universities."
(53) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  thanked the Colombian representative for deleting the  second paragraph of his draft resolution, which would:  have given rise to difficulties, and expressed the view  that, as it stood, the proposal was acceptable from the  technical standpoint.
(54) Mrs. TEJEIRA (Panama) supported the Brazilian  and Colombian proposals, adding that the Brazilian  resolution should be voted on first.
(55) The United States amendment to the Brazilian  draft resolution was rejected by 22 votes to 18, with
7 abstentions.
(56) The Brazilian draft resolution was adopted by"
38 votes to 9, with 8 abstentions.
(57) Mr. HUNT (United States of America) assumed  that the Colombian proposal was being treated as a  separate proposal. He would welcome information on  whether, constitutionally, the Bank would be in a  position to accept such requests for loans,
(58) Mr. BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia) expressed  concern at what the United States delegate had said  and at the implied suggestion that the Colombian  amendment had not been carefully enough considered,  He was all the more surprised because, at the  Conference of Ministers of Education in Lima, when  a similar proposal had been submitted, it had been  supported by the United States delegation.  He said that, if the Bank granted loans for material  undertakings, it should also do s0 for intellectual  purposes. Subject to such guarantees as it considered  necessary, it should help to build schools. Ite  resources amounted to thousands of millions of dollars  and it could well devote a part of them to loans that  would contribute towards the cultural development of  mankind and higher standards in general. It was  necessary to think of the millions of people who had  had no opportunity of education, which was man's  moet precious asset.  His proposal might be described as epitomizing  Unesco's aims, and he therefore urged that it be put  to the vote.
(59) Mr. BURNS (New Zealand) would either vote  against the proposal or abstain, It was regrettable  that the subject should have been raised at such à late  stage in the Commission'a proceedings, particularly
533  “COMMISSION     IV-36  if the question hed already been raised at the Regional  Conference in Lima.
(60) The CHAIRMAN invited an expression of opinion  from the Commission as to whether the Colombian  proposal was receivable.
(61) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) did net  consider that the Commission could decide whether  the proposal was receivable or not; the question was  a legal one and outside the Commission's terms of  reference.
(62) Mr, BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia) said that he  had attended a great many meetings of the Commission  and had had several opportunities of seeing how  amendments to proposals submitted were accepted,  He could therefore see no reason why his proposal  should not be put to the vote.  He added that a vote should be taken in order that  the attitude of the Commission might be clear.
(63) Mr. DIAZ-GONZALEZ (Venezuela) moved that  a vote be taken on the Colombian amendment,
(64) The CHAIRMAN accordingly put to the vote the  Colombian proposal.
(65) The Colombian proposal was adopted by 14 votes  to 2, with 17 abstentions.  OTHER BUSINESS
(66) Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that the Commission still had a few urgent  questions to consider. Firstly, Working Party No. 7  had recommended that documents 9C/DR/70 and
9C/DR/124 be connidered as amendments to resolution
5.31 rather than 5.11. The Commission would  therefore have to approve the text of the latter  résolution, as it had, through the adoption of the  report of Working Party No. 7 (document 9C/PRG/31  Rev.), already approved the amended text of resolution
(67) The text of resolution 5.11 was adopted  unanimously.
(68) Mrs. KAMINSKA (Poland) pointed out that her  delegations draft resolution (document 9C/DR/83) had  by mistake been revised in the form of an amendment,  whereas the revised text as à whole should have been  distributed. The Commission could not therefore use  it as a basis for discussion.
(59) Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  stated that the Commission also had to consider the  draft resolutions 9C/DR/75 Rev. , submitted by Poland,  and 9C/PRG/PROV/3, submitted by the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics, India, Federal Republic of Germany  and the United States of America.
(70) Draft resolution 9C/PRG/PROV/3 was adopted  unanimously, with one abstention.
(11) Mr, ESTABLE (Uruguay) wanted to know the  position with regard to two proposals he had submitted   IV-36  some time before, one of which related to à tribute to  Mahatma Gandhi and the other to a philosophy congress  in connexion with the project on mutual appreciation of  Eastern and Western cultural values.
(72) Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) said  that draft resolution 9C/DR/111 was one of the many  projects relating to the mutual appreciation of Eastern  and Western cultural values that the Commission had  decided to refer to the Advisory Committee and the  Executive Board. :  He pointed out that draft resolution 8C/DR/113 had  not been referred to the Commission by the General  Committee. The Uruguayan delegate could submit it  to the Commission if he so desired.
(73) Mr. ESTABLE (Uruguay) felt it a duty to urge  that the Conference pay tribute to Gandhi along the  lines suggested in his resolution. No one was more  representative of the great ideas of East and West in  the modern world, He pointed out that his resolution  proposed the publication of a book containing selections  from Gandhi's thought and a critical study of his  outstanding personality. Unesco, loyal to its aims,  should publicize the work of that great man who had  undertaken the defence of so many people suffering  under injustice and was a hero of the cause of peace  and brotherhood, His life had been an example of -  strict adherence to ideals, and he had written that  errors could be compared to mental ills which had to  be treated in the same way as physical ills.  The Unesco General Conference could not end its  labours without paying some tribute to Gandhi, and  the best such tribute would be the publication of the  proposed book.
(74) The CHAIRTIAN noted that draft resolution
8C/DR/113 consisted of two parts. The second part  was clearly not feasible, as the session was on the  verge of closing. The first part had budgetary impli-  cations and he would point out that the Commission  had already concluded its study of the proposed budget.
(78) Mr. ESTABLE (Uruguay) said that only the first  part of his proposal should be considered, and stressed  that it had been submitted early in the General Confer-  ence. He added that, even though the publication had  budgetary implications, the tribute to Gandhi should  not be dropped on that account,
(76) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) said  that, while the Secretariat would be most happy to  publish a book on Gandhi, the decision to do so had  budgetary implications and should therefore have been  voted on during the programme debate, Moreover,  the General Committee had declared it non-receivable  because of the laté date at which it had been submitted.  As there was no objection in principle to the second  paragraph, the General Conference might decide to pay  a tribute to Gandhi at its closing meeting.
(77) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) felt that it  would be impossible to hold over a discussion desling  with the spiritual leader of India. He proposed that  the Commission pay a sincere tribute to Gaadhi and  recommend the Director-General to publish the
534  PROGRAMME COMMISSION  Mahatma's writings, so far as might be possible,  and to commemorate him at the closing meeting of the  Conference. :
(78) Mrs. CARBONELL (Cuba) had been going to say  what Mr, Carneiro had just said, and went on to  suggest that, in support of the Uruguayan delegate's  proposal, the Commission should stand as a tribute to  India's greatest figure.
(79) Mr, ZIMIN (Union of Soviet Socialist Republica)  supported the Uruguayan proposal and hoped that a  special resolution would authorize the Director-General  to publish the thoughts of Gandhi, in view of his  tremendous contribution to his country's development.
(80) The CHAIRMAN supported the suggestion made  by the Cuban delegate that the Commission should  stand in silence in memory of Gandhi.  (The Commission then stood for one minute in  tribute to the memory of Mahatma Gandhi.)
(81) The CHAIRMAN also supported the Cuban  delegate's proposal that a member of the Commission  should address the plenary meeting of the General  Conference on Mahatma Gandhi, and invited  Mr. Carneiro to assume that responsibility.  The Commission would be required to vote on the  publication recommended in the Uruguayan draft  resolution.
(82) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) said that,  if the Soviet delegate agreed, he would propose the  addition of the words "within the limits of the present  Unesco publications budget".
(83) Mr. ZIMIN (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  accepted the suggestion that publication be recom-  mended without addition to the Organization's budget.
(64) Mr, SCHAFF (Poland), referring to the draft  resolution presented by his delegation (document
9C/DR/T5 Rev.), said that the removal of existing  restrictions on the import and export of scientific  instruments was an extremely important problem and  one that deeply concerned his country, He stressed  that the resolution concerned only basic apparatus.  He pointed out that it could be considered in a similar  context to the Agreement for Facilitating the Inter-  national Circulation of Visual and Auditory Materials,  referred to in Chapter 5, paragraph 21, of the proposed  programme and budget (document 9C/5, page 136).
(85) Mr, KELLERMANN (United States of America)  said that the text of the revised draft resolution had  not yet been circulated and that the recommendation  was far too important to vote upon until delegates had  had an opportunity to study the text. Furthermore,  there was no longer a quorum in the Commission.
(86) The CHAIRMAN announced that consideration of  the revised Polish draft resolution would be deferred  to the following meeting of the Commission,  The meeting rose at 2.10 p.m.