(58) The CHAIRMAN informed the Commission that  it would be necessary to finish the study of the chapter  on Social Sciences during a night meeting to be  arranged during the following week. The chapter on  IV-13  Mass Communication would be the subject of discus-  sion at the Commission's next meeting.  The meeting rose at 6,40 p.m,  THIRTEENTH MEETING
22 November 1956, at 10.30 a.m,  Chairman: Mrs.  ITEM 9.5 OF THE AGENDA : MASS COMMUNICATION  (documents 9C/5 and Addende and Corrigende, documents 9C/PRG/11,  “ 12, 14, 15, 16 and 17)
(1) The CHAIRMAN informed the Commission that it  was rather behind its schedule; a Saturday morning  meeting and night meetings were almost inevitable,  She opened the discussion on Mass Communication by  suggesting that the sub-items could be dealt with in  conjunction with the programme chapters, except  items 9.5.3 and 9.5.4 of the agenda, which would be  considered separately.
(2) Mr. GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) said that the Organization's task In  the field of mass communication was a challengé; the  Constitution stressed the need of communication bet-  ween peoples by the free flow of (deas and images.  The Montevideo working party on mass communica-  tion had recommended certain measures of reorganiza-  tion which were dealt with in the Director-General's  report, document 9C/PRG/11. Mass media demanded  a flexible work plan, but a definite pattern had emer-  ged in the last years, The proposals contained in  the 1957-1958 draft programme reflected that pat-  tern more markedly than before.  The main tasks of mass communication were:
(1) the development of mass media and the free flow  of information; (2) the general promotion of interna-  tionalunderstanding; (3) infor mation for the public on  Vnescço's work and achievements. A unifieddirectionof  effort {nall three of those fields was indispensable.  Information media were free and should remain so -  any interference with them was strongly resented -  but Unesco should help fn the improvement of journ-  alistic training, formulate new projects for exchanges  of radio programmes, and promote the establishment  of a system of international co-operation among film  and television interests. Mr. Gjesdal welcomed the  Franco-Italian resolution (document 9C/DR/5) on  that subject,  Free flow work was being continued by a painstaking  effort to remove obstacles (examples would be found  in document 9C/PRG/16) and by mass media research.  The programme submitted was concentrated on mass  communication problems as such - which had seemed  tobe the most rewarding approach. The essential require-  ment in that field was closer contact between National  Commissions and mass media in the Member States.  For the promotion of international understanding, it  was proposed that Unesco should mobilize the active  support of non- governmental organizations - a realm  of great possibilities, The next few years would  prove whether that policy was right or wrong. The
365     MYRDAL (Sweden)  programme was designed to meet the need for  information material by production and distribution.  The continued efforts to help the press, television,  radio and cinema would be intensified, No specific  proposals had yet been madé with regard to Mass  Communication's participation in the major projects.  Increased United Nations assistance had been received  through their network of information centres. The  keynote of the programme was concentration and econ-  omy; its budget represented a considerable saving  in comparison with the 1955-1956 period, A reduc-  tion of nearly $280, 000 had been achieved by pruning  the special activities and staff costs by 10 per cent,  while the staff of the Depaitment had been reduced  by 8 per cent, The reduction would have been in  the neighbourhood of $330, 000 if the Russian-language  edition of the "Courier" had not been initiated, The  economies had been effected with the minimum dis-  turbance of the Department's activities and the olear-  ing house. for instance, had received accrued im-  portance. The programme and budget were mainly  in accord with the Montevideo resolutions and new  projects would be difficult to fit into the streamlined  programme, but the Director-General had authorized  Mr. Gjesdal to say that he was prepared to consider  changing Mass Communication's allocation for 1959-
1960 in the light of the next two years experience.
(3) The CHAIRMAN thanked Mr. Gjesdal for his  introduction to the debate, and called upon the repre-  sentative of the Executive Board and the Rapporteur  of the Committee on Reports of Member States, *
(4) Mrs. SCHLUETER- HERMKES (Federal Republic  of Germanÿ) (Representativé of thé Executive Board)  stated that the Board had'adjouirned discussion on  document 9C/5 Corrigéndum 4 and that she was  therefore unable to pass on to the Coinmission any  of its comments on the Director-General's proposals  for the use of the additional $1, 000, 000,
(5) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur of the  Committee on Reports of Member States) said that,  in its examination of the reports of Member States,  his Committee had been particularly interested in  those items relating to the free flow of information  and the promotion of international understanding.  The reports submitted were often imprecise and  confused - and sometimes silent - with regard to  those topics, A few isolated instances of really  excellent action had, however, been noted. The  Committee had expressed the hope that the Programme  Commission would give close attention to the pro-  blems of Member States' participation in mass com-  munication work and, more particularly, to: (a) the   rv-13  mearis of ensuring liaison bétween the Department  of Mass Communication and the programme Depart-  ments so that the necessary documentation should  reach the appropriate service for distribution; and  (b)the methods to be used to produce better results in the  field of mass communication. The Committee had ob-  served thal a large number of States had availed them-  selves of all the opportunities offered by the programme  ‘Departments (science, art and photographic exhibitions,  the Unesco Coupon scheme, etc, )for spreading informa-  tion about Unesco. Mr, Brunsvick suggested that that  last point might provide useful guidance in the discussion  on the chapter of the programme under review.
(6) The CHAIRMAN proposed dividing the programme  into sections and discussing them one by one. She  entered a plea for short interventions and, in relation  to paragraphs 1 to 12 inclusive she drew the Com-  mission's attention to document 9C/PRG/11 and to  the new text of paragraph 6 in Corrigendum 1 to docu-  ment 9C/5.  Paragraphs 1 to 12:
(7) Mr, RICHNER (Switzerland) siressed that one of  the basic tasks of the Department of Mass Communica-  tion was to make Unesco!s work known and apprecia-  ted, and that the mere transmission of articles or  recordings to information organizations was not enough  {or that purpose, He hoped for the development of closer  contacts between the Department and journalists, and  pointed out that the object of such contacts should be not  so much to publicize reports on Unesco meetings as to  encourage the writing of articles and features both  on Unesco activitles and on topics of the type discussed  in the "Courier", Writers should be induced to come  direct to the source of information so that they might  really work effectively with the Organization.
(8) Mr, NAPOLITANO (italy) congratulated the Director  of the Department on the clarity of his appreciation of the  difficult problems connected withthe free flow of irifor -  mation, technical media, the training of journalists, and  co- -ordinatiôn withthe other Départments, National  Commissions and rion-govérnmental organizations.  He wished to submit to the Commission a number of  suggestions which might be helpful in considering the  fundamentat question of the Department's reorganjza-  tion, In the first place, the Director-General's  report and the ‘proposed programme and budget des-  cribed the steps that had been taken towards reorgan-  ization in ‘accordance with the decisions of the Con-  ference at its previous session, concentrating parti-  cularly on Uneésco's "special audiences", the training  of journalists, -and the use of audio-visual aids in  mass communication, The docuinents referred to  also provided for the 6rganization of liaison with  National Commissions and non:governmental organi-  zations as thé next stage in the process, and ludked  forward té long-lérm reorganization, The Director-  General himself, however, had obsérved that the  question was still ¢ open to ‘discussion, and there was  no doubt of the Programmeé.Commission!s competence  to study the question without encroaching on the terri-  tory of the Administrative Commission, :  He regretted that the Department's budget hadbeen  cut by $400, 000 in spite of the increase in the budget
366     PROGRAMME COMMISSION  of the Organization as a whole, and pointed out that :  the General Conference at'Montevideo had proposed  a thorough-going reorganization of ihe Department  based on its two main’ functions. Mr, Napolitano  felt it necessary for the nature and implications of  those functions to he systematically defined, for,  while the Départment was not direcfly interested in  all aspects of the press, radio, films and television,  the study of the organization of the press and the  publicizing of Unesco and United Nations news fell  entirely within its field of competence, The Italian  delegation therefore proposed that the reorganization  of the Department be carried out with two focal ideas  in mind: "outside information', dealing with activi-  ties and research designed to improve the media of  mass communication and the professional training  of journalists, and "inside information", designed to  publicize the activities, achievements, efforts and  ideals of Unesco.  "Outside information” would include:  (a) the drawing up of International conventions and  agreements designed to promote freedom of informa-  tion and its free flow through the use of all technical  media;  (b) efforts to promote the improveräent of journa-  listic training at both the national and the international  levels;  (c) the development and improvement of the media  employed;  (d) the publication and circulation of periodical or  occasional studies on journalism and mass media,  and the publicizing of the results achieved in the  various fields; the comparative study of legislation  on mass communication and neighbouring rights";  encouragement to national communications research  institutes,  "Inside information" would include:  (a) documentation on Unesco's general activities  and on the activities of its different departmen's.  (b) the compilation, presentation and publication  of results by the radio, press, cinema, television  and news agencies.  For the circulation of l’Outside information", the »  collaboration of National Commissions, journalists’  associations, cultural institutions and academies  would have to be sought, while in the case of "inside  information", close co-operation with the other -  Departments would be required, after. which the"  results would be publicized through the National -  Commissions. Such a division of activities might -  later ease the task of Member States, which would -  follow the same system with the necessary adjustments.  Mr, Napolitano hoped that the suggestions | hé had  put forward would be of some use to the Commission.  He felt that some of the projects to whieh he had °  referred were extremely important, in particular  that relating to the comparative study of legislation,  which might lead certain States to improve their  own laws in fields of vital importance, such as the  protection of young pééple from the harmful in-  fluence of certain publications,  and'the standardiza-  tion of à number of legal principles relating to mass  communication. In conclusion, he expressed the  hope that the problem of thé reorganization of thé  Department would be satisfactorily solved before  the following session of the Conference.   PROGRAMME OOMMISSION
(9) Mr. TERROU (Francé) remarked that the  Department of Mass Communication was one of those  that,because of the diversity of its tasks and the im-  portance of its role alike, gave rise to the most dif-  ficult problems, The fact that the question of in-  ternal organization came up so regularly was an in-  dication of the difficulty of finding a satisfactory solu-  tion, The special working party appointed by the  Montevideo Conference had unanimously adopted a  plan for the organization of the Department in two  sections corresponding lo its two principal functions:  public information and programme activities, A  study of docurient 8C/PRG/11, which contained the  report on the question’ requested by the Conference,  showed, however, that in practice other ideas had  prevailed and the proposed organizational division had  not been maintained, = The result had been thé dis-  persal of basic activities among the various services,  although no precise criteria for defining the com-  petence of those services had been given, Document
9C/PRG/11 stated that the dualism referred to had  become more functional than organizational, but no  provision had been made for the distribution of  special activities, An impression of confusion and  overlapping resulted. He would like the Director to  supplement his report by stating the basic reasons -  apart trom purely finañcial considerations - that had  led him to propose the reorganization plan under con-  sideration, Mr. Terrou explained that he was dwell-  ing on the point only because the question of the  Department's organization appeared to him to be linked  with Unesco's work on the execution of its programme,  The French delegation had been pleased at the pro-  gress made {n certain fields, particularly with regard  to the "Courier", which had a circulation of over
25,000 in France, Mr. Terrou thought, however, that  additional efforts should be made to obtain the active  co-operation of news organizations and journalists,  To achieve that alm, the principal need was the estab-  lishment of personal contâcts; ther interest of com-  munications specialists in the manifold activities of  the various programme Departments had to be aroused.  That called for the establishment of close co-opera-  tion between the Departmént of Mass Communication  and thé other Departments..  Among the programine activities, his delegation was  pleasèd with thé achievements in the spheré of free  flow of information and the projects relating to the  training of journalists, which had been warmly wel-  comed by thé members of the profession, It regret-  ted, however, that no provision had been made for  co-ordinating the activities of communications‘ re-  search institutes, although every committee of ex-  perts had recommended such a step. He had noted  that Mr, Gjesdal, in his statement, had indicated  that the problem would shortly be tackled. Mr.  Terrou also regretted that there appeared to be some  slowing down in studies and the publication of material  on mass communication techniques and the law relating  to mass media, at a time when the need to adapt legi-  station to the new techniques made such material  absolutely essential.  He appreciated the difficulties with which the Director  had to contend, and deplored the meagre budgetary pro-  vision for the Department, but hoped that Mr. Gjesdal  would be able to give Lia delegation the necessary assur -  ances with regard to the problems he had just raised.
(10) Mr. BALIGA (India) associated himself with  the congratulations to Mr. Gjesdal, He stressed  that, in India, the task of mass communicadon was to  inform people and make them appreciate the principles  of democracy, In districts where illiteracy was pre-  vient, radio, films and television could play a vital  part. India had used school broadcasts for the past  fifty years for culture, education and the sciences.  Community listening had been organized to teach  about hygiene, ‘sanitation, family planning, etc.;
25, 000 villages in India had community recelvers.  Nowadays television had a significant rôle to play in  society, particularly in the areas with a high ii1i-  teracy rate, but in India there were only five or six  receivers for every 100 inhabitants and no television  at all; experts, and particularly equipment, were  essential for the development of that service. The  Indian delegation supported the Director-General's  efforts to economize and reorganize, but the delega-  tion thought that Mass Communication was a dynamic  part of Unesco and, therefore, should be endowed  with adequate funds.
(11) Mr, BRONIAREK (Poland) congratulated Mr.  Gjesdal on his report. The importance of mass  communication media was obvious; every morning  men turned to the newspapers or the radio to keep  in contact with world évents. Poland warmly sup-  ported modern techniques of mass communication.  Some special points in the programme would be  referred to later, but meanwhile the Polish delegate  had a concrete proposal to make for widening  clearing house activities, such as the exchange of  photographic exhibitions, recordings of music, etc.,  and for the production of relevant catalogues. The  proposal had not been tabled in time, and he there-  fore asked the Chair to allow the suggestion to be  inserted into the programme under discussion,
(12) Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) paid tribute to Mr,  Gjesdal for his lucid presentation of the programme.  Emphasis had been laid on the right activities, but  mass communication media could be well or {ll used,  and special emphasis should be placed on the training  and development of technicians. The press was a  powerful force, ‘and therefore Unesco should ensuré  that those who wielded it possessed the necessary  compétence to promote goodwill among nations. In  conclusion, he advocated intensified production of  educational films for children and adults.
(13) Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) thanked Mr. Gjesdal  for his exposé and said he appreciated the difficulties  Mass Communication had to face. - He thought the  reorganization of the Department and programme  was disappointing, and urged that greater help should  be sought from the National Commissions, He doubted  whether it was possible to set up a really concentra-  ted programme, and wondered if the approach to mass  communication and information should not be reviewed  once again.
(14) Mr, ERIKSSON (Sweden) praised the concentra-  tion of the programme, for which he had nothing but  support. He knew the difficulties mass communica-  tion had to face and stressed that information activi-  ties were essential to obtain the support of educators,  scientists, etc. Information material for schools   Iv-13  seemed to have been neglected, The "Courier" was  very popular in Sweden; it had over 5,000 subscribers  and their number was growing, Mr, Eriksson also  praised the film "World Without End", and hoped more  such films could be produced. In his opinion, greater  help from non-governmental organizations and Nation-  al Commissions should be secured to achieve the ends  outlined in the preamble to the programme. Hewas  concerned by the budget cut; the Department should  have ‘adequete funds to carry out its very important  functions,
(15) Mr, ANAS (Afghanistan) associated himself with  ihe previous speaker, Unesco's programme would  be paralysed without mass communication, which was  specially important in underdeveloped countries (the  delegate of India had given the reasons), The action  of the press depended on literacy, but radio and tele-  vision - for schools and adults - could have a lasting  effect.  up what was learnt in schools, and in promoting  mutual understanding. Really good films. were im-  portent for mass communication, but their showing  was costly when the audiences were small, whereas  cheap films were positively dangerous. Mr, Anas  approved concentration and economies, but the poten-  tialities and effectiveness of the programme should  have priority over savings; he proposed a restoration  of the Department's budget to the previous year's  level,
(16) Miss GNAUCK (Federal Republic of Germany)  associated herself -with the previous speakers, She  was also surprised by the drastic budget cut and  deplored the severe pruning which had been done, She  thought it would set back mass media in the under-  developed countries mentioned by the delegates of India,  Pakistan and Afghanistan, She also was disappointed  by the reorganization of the Department; some state-  ment that went beyond the exposé in document
9C/PRG/11 should be made on that subject. She  approved the widening of the.clearing house activities  and hoped they would include world legislation on,  films, press and radio as well as mass communica-  tion research in Germany. She stressed the impor-  tance of visual media in education, and suggested that  prizes and competitions were a legitimate means of  improving national films and television. Germany  welcomed the project for the training of journalists  and was eager to participate in it.
(17) Mr. TSUDA (Japan) felt sure that, after its  reorganization, the Department of Mass Communica-  tion would satisfactorily fulfil its task of publicizing  Unesco. In order to remove the obstacles which im-  peded the free flow of information, closer co-opera-  tion of the competent national bodies with Unesco was  necessary. Mr, Tsuda supported the statements  made by the delegates of Switzerland, Italy and France,
(18) Miss FIELD (United Kingdom) praised Mr.  Gjesdalls statement. She thought mass media were  young and active but there was considerable divergence  of opinion in the world as to how they should be used  and for what purpose.  respect for the scientists, technicians and artists  Mr. Anas drew attention to the potential value  of radio in the teaching of foreign languages, to follow  The United Kingdom had great
388  PROGRAMME COMMISSION  responsible for the development of mass media,  and asked for a greater measure of recognition for  those without whose assistance no really valuable  work could be dorie in that field, In view of a certain  lack of realism in the programme under discussion,  she asked that practical.objectivés should have first  priority.
(18) Mr. KUYPERS (Belgium) complimented the -  Department on the efforts made to achieve better in.  ternal and interdepartmental co- ordination, and hoped  that those efforts would continue, He wished to pass  on a number of constructive criticisms which he had  heard from mass communication experts. He agreed  with the United Kingdom delegation that a certain re-  grettable lack of realism was damaging the relations  between Unesco and the various national information  bodies, which sometimes had little confidence in the  Organization. He tendered as a possible reason the  fact that the original intention had been lo set up a  public information body to take the place of the pro-  fessional organizations, and expressed the opinion  that that was at the root of the lack of enthusiasm  shown by television experts for Unesco projects,  Another reason for distrust was due to the fact that  the interests of professional workers, and in par-  ticular of exhibitors, broadcasters, etc. did not  always coincide with the necessarily wider views of  Unesco, e.g. in connexion with copyright, Co  He made it clear that he himself did not endorse  all those criticisms, but he thought it nécessary to  mention them. He added that, though a large amount  of highly specialized documentation was received from  Unesco by the various bodies coñcerned with mass  media, it was not always of direct interest to them.  There had been progress in some directions, e.g.  the "Courier" and "Features" but journalists pre-  ferred exclusive news to impersonal press releases.  Moreover, the time’ sét aside for news broadcasts  was very limited and commentators were not parti-  ticularly familiar with Unesco's internal organization  and terminology.  Mr, Kuypers therefore felt that the Director of  the Department would have a lot to do tg combat the  prejudices and misunderstanding of mass media  specialists with regard to Unesco, © In the belief  that only pérsonal contacts would provide an effective  remedy, he proposed the following’ measures! the  holding of meetings with newspaper managers and  editors; the organization, with government support,  of a "Unesco Day", during the annual meetings of  European news sérvices, at which the Director of  the Department would be present. Such meetings  would give journalists an opportunity of contributing  valuable suggestions as to the type of material they  would like to have, and the Department would there-  fore be better able to execute its programme  realistically.
(20) Mr. ASSUMPÇÂO DE ARAUJO (Brazil) con-  gratulated the Director of the Department on his  excellent report, and drew the Commission's  attention to some aspects of the chapter under  discussion,  He had noticed that the statistics éontained in  "World Communications" were not always entirely  accurate, which was particularly to be deplored as   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  the publication was intended to be a work of reference  for the guidance of National Commissions, journalists,  and radio and cinema experts. In addition, its price  was too high for it to enjoy a wide circulation, He  asked Mr. Gjesdal to supply some additional informa-  tion on that point,  He agreed with several of the previous speakers  that personal contacts with journalists were needed,  pointing out that Unesco's alms could not bz achieved  through the mere issue of statistics nnd uews items,  which swiftly went out of date, .  Finally, the rapid expansion of te'e Aston in Latin  America, which had à close bearing on the problems  of fundamental education, made it important to have  available technicians and experts capable of giving  the desired prominence to that medium of communica-  tion between peoples and individuals, which had such  excellent possiblities for the promotion of Unesco's  ideals.
(21) Mr. UNAKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  les) snid that his delegation had listened with great  interest to the report of the Director of the Depart-  ment, and paid tribute to the efforts made to imple-  ment the various programme projects, Referring to  the internal organization of the Department, he thought  that the overall planning and the aims of the activities  for which it was responsible were not sufficiently  clear, The uncertainty thus existing was lable to  give rise to misunderstandings in the execution of the  programme and to cause gaps to be left therein, , He  therefore hoped that the Director would supply further -  details, particularly with reference to the question of  co-ordination with other Departments,  He stressed the fundamental importance of mass  . communication and thought that care should be taken  not to consider the problem only from the angle of  Unesco's own activities, The extremely influential  mass media - the press, radio and {elévision - should,  first and foremost, contributé to mutual understanding  not only among Unesoo's Member States but also with  other couritries, He agreed with the delegate of  Afghanistan that Unesco should study the possible  harmful influence of the press and television and should  take steps to obviate that darger. A wise use of mass  media might help to prevent any such harmful inflience  and scotch any attempt to sow discord among the  different countries, The Unesco Constitution provided  for co-operation with Member States in that field, and  the Department of Mass Communication therefore had  an all-important part to play.  Mr. Unakov then stressed the importance of con-  tacts between scientists, artists, theatrical producers  and other leading members of society, for the prono-  tion of international understanding and co-operation.  He felt that mass media could make a vital contribu  tion in that field and would enable the results of éx-  periments undertaken by Unesco in bringing together  experts (jurists, philosophers, economists, ete,)  representative of the various countries, for the pur-  pose of studying problems of international significance  ne spirit of mutual co-operation, to become generally  own,
(22) Miss TRINIDAD (Philippines) associated herself  with the thanks of the other delegates to Mr, Gjesdal.  The Philippines were deeply interested in press,
369  IV-13  radio, and films; they welcomed the training of  journalists project and the efforts made to promote  the free flow of information. Perhaps the countries  which had ratified the agreements concerning the  importation of educational and cultural materials  could be induced to adhere to them more strictly.  Miss Trinidad stressed the importance of a wide  exchange of persons, of regional conferences and of  visits by members of the Secretariat, She approved  the part of the programme devoted to radio - particu-  larly valuable in countries with a high rate of illi-  teracy = and hoped for an increased production of  documentary films, whose cultural message was  easy to understand, particularly for children,
(23) Mr, GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) said he was grateful for the comments,  advice and suggestions he had heard, He pointed out  that the considerat.ons underlying the reorganization  of his Department were largely administrative, The  subjective and objective aspects of the programme  had been kept separate, He admitted that the budget  was very tight. But if the Montevideo resolutions  were to be implemented fully, and new initiatives  taken by the Department, more funds would have to  be provided, The budgetary provision made for  the reorganization, in Montevideo, had not been ade-  quate. An attempt had been made to offset budget  reductions by greater concentration; the balance of  the programme had not been altered, °  The radio had far greater potentialities than was  realized; that was true everywhere, but particularly  in the underdeveloped areas (a study of the problem  had already been proposed), Great ‘attention was  being paid to audio-visual methods by the regional  centre in Mexico; similar centres in Pakistan and  South Fast Asia were being discussed, as well as  a new riational broadcasting system tor Libya. One  hundred thousand copies of the "Courier" would be  produced the following year; the target was half a  million copies, A radio experiment had already  been tried, In the field of exchange of exhibitions,  further guidance would be very welcome, The titm  "World Without End" was a fairly expensive under-  taking, and there was no provision in the budget for  another film of that kind, but the Department hoped  to produce one on the arid zones in co-operation  withthe United Nations. Mr. Gjesdal agreed that  recognition for the technicians of mass media was  amply due,
(24) The CHAIRMAN declared that Mr. Gjesdal's  statement was very reassuring; he would answer  specific points later. She concluded that no action  by the Commission was proposed on the first 12  paragraphs of the Mass Communication programme.
(25) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that the budget cuts in the Mass Communi-  cation chapter, as in others, had been made with the  object of finding the funds required for the major  projects. Corrigendum 4 to document 9C/5 con-  tained proposals for increasing the part played by  the Depariment of Mass Communication in the major  projects. In addition, the Director-General had  considered that Unesco's Mass Communication pro-  gramme had not yet attained a sufficient degree of   IV-14  maturity to warrant the allocation of additional funds,  The Director-General nevertheless attached great  importance to that aspect of the programme and would  appreciate suggestions which would help him in drawing  PROGRAMME COMMISSION  up a programme that the delegates to the next session of ihe  General Conference would be able to approye unanimowsly,  The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m.  FOURTEENTH MEETING
22 November 1856, at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)  ITEM 0.5 OF THE AGENDA : MARS COMMUNICATION (continued)  (documents 9C/6 and Addenda and Corrigenda, documents 9C/PRGY 13,
16 and 17 and SC/DR/D, 45, 7, ‘TO, 95 and 119)
5.1 - Free Flow of Information (paragraphs 13 to 51)
(1) Introducing thé section, Mr, GJESDAL (Director,  Department of Mass Communication) pointed out that  the work plans under project 5. 121 fell into three  parts: (1) international agréements; (3) proposals  submitted to international conferences; and (3) publica-  tion of studies. - He then outlined the main points in  the section and drew the Commission's attention to  proposed new activities.
(3) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanai) regarded the section as  a model of the kind of internationdl sétlon that Unesco  should develop and promote. | , Where measures for  facilitating the free | flow of information were ‘concerned,  he was convinced that Unesco could do much more |  than securing signatures to agreements,’ drawing up  reports and carr ‘out studies: the experience  acquired by the Secretariat o over a term of years  should render it capable, ‘at the stage reached, of  taking the initiative and contemplating direct partici-  pation by Unesco in the Adtivitles ‘of suitable inter-  national organizations concerned with mass communi-  cation, undér a plan of combined action for the pro-  motion of international understanding. a  As for studies of pro lems ‘affecting the free t ow  of information, there too collaboration between Unesco  and the appropriate organisations was necessary at  the research was expected to yield practical results,  Regarding the commitiee of government, experts  proposed in paragraph 23 of document 9C/PRG/12, it  would, in his opinion, be sound to expand it by send-  ing invitations to representatives of the appropriate  international non-governmental organizations and of  the Specialised Agencies of the United Nations.  As the task which fell to the Department of Mass  Communication in that sphere was world-wide in  scope, Mgr Maroun urged that the Commission ask  the Secretariat to seek the maximum co-ordination  of its efforts with those of the institutions listed in  document 0C/S from page 130 onwards,   (3) Referring to paragraph 23 and to document
9C/PRG/12, concerning proposed international regu-  lations for the free movement of persons, Mr. ‘AVIDOR  “ (Israel) wished to bring to the Commission's atien-  tion a matter which his delegatioii considered to be  very serious, On 5 May 1956; thé Diréctor-Geiersl  had sent out à ciréular letter, CL/1100; “fofgether +  with an annex containing replies of Member Stated  regarding facilities’ which they intended to grint for  the free movement of persons engaged in educational,  scientific or cultural activities. “Thé Israeli National  Commission had been very concernéd to see in the  reply of the Government of Jordan a Statement to the  effect that it was prepared to grant such facilities to  Unesco personnel "providéd that they are not Jews",  Similarly, Lebanon had replied in more general terms  that "such facilities shall not be extended to persons  of the Jewish faith", |  Such a blatant manifestation ‘of rellgiois and racial  discrimination had greatly grieved the Israel National  Commission, but it had been even more distressed to .  see such statements ‘published In én officiil document,  without any appropriate dlsavows) b y the Director:  General, Mr, ‘Avidor had wnitten to | the Directér-  General on 30 May idse, ‘atating that the Israe  National Commission registered à protest ‘gains!’  such open, ‘discrimination against Jews and deeply re:  greited that such siatements should have been pub’ '  lished without ‘suitable comment in sn official Unésco  document. The National Commiss{on requested’ the  Director-General to ‘bring the matter. before the  Executive Board. In a letter dated 17 Septerber
1956, the Director-General had replied that he had  submitted the Israeli protest fo the Board at a secret  meeting held during its 44th'session. The Board.  had decided to ask Jordan and Lebanon for additional  information, ‘The Director-General had concluded:  "I will keep you informed of any | further, action taken  in this matter," Having received no ‘communication  from the Director-General since. that date, Mr, Avidor  would be glad to hear from the Secretariat. whether  there had been further developments. ,  In conclusion, Mr. Avidor reiterated his Govern-  ment's protest against the publication of such state-  ments by Unesco, and requested that the protest be  recorded in the Programme Commission's report.  to the General Conference. Lastly, he explained:  that his delegation had not deemed it appropriate to