CHAPTER  IV-1-2"  IV  PROGRAMME COMMISSION  FIRST MEETING
6 November 1956, at 5.45 p.m.  Chairman: Mr, HALLSTEIN (Federal Republic of Germany)  ELECTION OF THE CHAIRMAN
(1) The Programme Commission held a very brief  meeting for the sole purpose of electing its Chairman.  {2) The CHAIRMAN anounced that the Nominations  Committee had proposed us the Commission's  permanent Chairman, Mrs. Alva Myrdal of Sweden,
(3) The proposal of the Noininatior: Committee was  unanimously adopted by acclamation.  The meeting rose at 6.50 p.m,  SECOND MEETING
13 November 1956  Chairman: Mrs.  (i) ‘The CHAIRMAN called the sécond meeting of tj e  Programme Commission to order and expressed hir  sincere thanks to her fellow delegates for the honou >  which they had done to her country in electing ber  Chairman. She took on the task as & noble duty  which she would eadeavour to carry out to the best,  of her ability.  ELECTION OF OFFICERS  {2) The CHAIRMAN called for nominations for the  three posts of Vice-Chairmen and that of Rap-  {3) Mr. BARBEY (Switzerland), on behalf of Mr,  Bourgeois, the head of the Swiss delegation and  Chairman of the Programme Commission at the  _ eighth séssion of the Conference, proposed thy names  of Mr. Bujalic (Yugoslavia), Mr. Anas (Afghanistan)  -.and Mr. Quifiones Sanchez (Guatémaia).
1   {4) The proposals were seconded by several delega-
(5) Mr, ARREAGA' (Guateriaia) was sorry | to 1 say that  the head of the Guatemalan delegation, Mr.  Quitiones  Sanchez, had received instructions from his Govern-  ment which made it necessary f for him to eave at the  end of the ‘week to visit a matnber' of Eastern ‘countries.  He was ac giy unable, to accept the ‘great | honour  the Commission sought | to do him in appointing him'a  Vice-Chairman, If the purposé of Mr, Barbey's mo  posal had been to secure a representative of Central  America as one of thé Vice-Chairmen, the office which  Mr. Quilionez Sanchex waé unable to accept might per-  haps be given to Professot Barrios Duarte, the head ’  of the Nicaraguan delegation. '
(6) The delegate of Switzei and paving ‘indicated that  he was agreesble to the change, the proposal was  seconded by the Belgian tlt Venezuelan delegations.
(7) The CHAIRMAN asked whéther the Commission  would accept the three appointments as Vice- Chairmen  and they were approved,
(8) ‘As Cénada, in addition to other ‘qualities, had a  very fine tradition of bilingualism, thé Chairmii sug-  gested that the Canadian delegation provide the Rapporteur.