14 November 1986, at 9,30 a.m,  President: Mr, von TRUTZSCHLER (Federal Republic of Germany)  CONTENTS  . Electiori of members of the Executive Board (continued) . . 194  ELECTION Ge menus GF TUE EXECUTIVE BOARD (rt)
(1) The PRESIDENT: ‘We will now continue the voting |  for members of the Executive Board; ‘Two seats are  still tô be filled, since only eleven persons haye re-  ceived the absolute majority. The voting papers, and  the lists of candidates from which choice should be  made, have been dis tributed. ’  I call upon the delegate of the Union of Soviet  Socialist. Republics.
(2) Mr, KEMENOV (Union of Soviet “Socialist ‘Repub-  lics) (Translation from the Russian): Mr, President,  fellow delegates, before we proceed to the vote may 1  ask your attention for a moment ? ; The Soviet dele-  gation would like to propose to the General Conference  that on this day, the sixty-seventh birthday. of the Prime  Minister of India, Mr. Jawaharlal Nehru - = that out-  standing siatesman whose contribution to the progress  of India and to the development of peaceful relations .  and cultural co-operation between the peoples is so  highly esteemed by all - we, on behalf of the plenary :  meeting of the General Conference of Unesco, should  send him a congratulatory telegram,
3) ‘The PRESIDENT; ‘You have heard the suggestions  made by the representative of the Soviet Union, By  your applause I take it that you agree, and the Chair  will accordingly, send a telegram’ of congratulation to  the Indian Prime Minister.  _ May we now proceed to the vote ? May | first ask  the tellers to come up again - Mr, Joubert of the dele-  gation of Laos, and Mr. Kjems of the delegation of  Denmark ?  The Secretary will now call on the various  delegations.  (The vote was taken by secret ballot, )
(4) ‘The PRESIDENT: The result is as follows 4  number of Member Statés entitled to Vote at this ses:  sion: 79; number of absent! Members: {di number À  abstentions: 0; number of invalid bailof papers: 7  number of votes recorded: 63; number of votes Gon.  stituting thé majority required for ‘elégtion: 82,: 1  Mr. Georges Averoff (Greece): 39 Votes; electad i  HE, Mr, ‘Stefan Wierblowski (Poland): 32 votes pa  elected; Professor Bedrettin und 1 !           tan): 27 votés, *  Ladies and gentlemen; we have how to proceed to”:  another itein ¢onnected with the élections. - We hévé'  to apply Rule 95 A of the Rules of Procedure as con-  tained in the Report of the Administrative Comuaisajon  which we have adopted at a former meéting of the Ts,  Confareiice (document 9C/13). Rule 95 A runs es:  follows:  "At the ninth sossièn of the General ‘Cantérench; 3  thirteen members shall be elected to the Executive i}  Board, ‘ pursuant to thé provisions ‘of ‘Article V. of the  Constitution. Oné of therd shall retire atthe close:  of the tenth. session of the' Faenétal Conference; {bt the  retiring member ‘béing’ ‘chosen’ by the drawing of ots,  Thereafter, twelve member ph be élected at each  ordinary session of the Genet ‘al Conference!!!
1 have here the thirteen’ names, ‘which we “will par     “into the box. ‘I shall now draw the lot; that is to’ ‘ay  take one of the names out of the box,
1 have drawn the name of Dr. Motatazuddin Ahried,  the representative of Pakistan, who will have to retire  after two years.  We have thus finished the business of this miesting.  ‘The meeting rose at 10. 30 d.m.