14 November 1066, at 10, 30 a. m.  Chairman: Mr, DAVIES (Australia)
(1) The CHAIRMAN declared the meeting open and  welcomed the delegates of Tunisia and Morocco who  were attending the meeting of the Commission for the  first time with full voting rights.  ITEM 123 OF THE AGENDA : CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORT OF  THE EXECUTIVE BOARD ON THE RECOVERY OF ARREARS OF  CONTRIBUTIONS FROM CZECHOSLOVAKIA, HUNGARY AND POLAND  (documents 8C/ADM/4 and Addendun ; 9C/DR/58 and 9C/DR/ 56)  (a) At the request of the CHAIRMAN, Mr, MUDALIAR  (India) (Chairman of the Executive Board) explained  that the Board had received the Director-General's  report and comments on that item and had agreed that  they could be communicated direct to the Adminis-  trative Commission for its consideration. The Board  had therefore made no comments or recommendations  in the matter,
(9) Mr. HARPER SMITH (Comptroller) explained  that document ac ADM/4 was a composite. document  dealing with the soilection of contributions in general,  as well as with the apecial arrangements for the pay-  ment of arrears by. Czechoslovakia, Hungary and »  Poland. He then presented. the document, section by  section, and drew atténtion to the full statement ¢ on  need. to be Toing ri by the General Conference. In  ‘compliance with the proyisions of the resolutions’ ‘of the  eighth session relating to the special arrangements’  laid down for the paymént of arrears by Czéchoslo-  vakia, Hungary and’ Poland, the. Director- General had  reported on the payments of the instalments due, and  the utilization of the national currencies received.  (paragraphs 14-18 of document 9C/ADM/4), and had  included a draft resolution thereon for consideration  by the current session. .
(4) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director - General)”  explairied that the Director-General had récéntly held,  goneral discussions ‘with the Member. Staten concerned  with à yiew to determining to what extent the contrl- .  butions Fecelved in their. national éurrencies could be.  used in execution of the proposed | programme for 1957  and 1958, It had appeared evident that, ‘although’ ‘there  vas, a good possibility € that the balance of réceipts in  de currencies, i.e, the e valent of approximately  $60, 000 (paragraph ‘15 of 9C/ADM/ coul be used in  implementation of the proposed 1987-1958 programme,  there wis some doubt whether any further contributions  in those cürrencies could be utilized, Although,  therefore, the Organization was unable to support the
6565     draft resolutions submitted by the delegations of  Czechoslovakia ‘and Poland, the Director-General now  proposed the amendment of paragraphs 1.5, 2.5 and
3.5 of the draft resolution contained in the Annex to  document 9C/ADM/4, as follows:  “Decides that for the years 1957 and 1958 the annual  payments shall be made in accordance with the resolu-  tion covering payments of contributions to the budget  for 1957-1958", .  In other words, according to thé resolution aiready  adopted concerning the payment : of contributions to the
1957-1958 budget, the Director-Generai would be.  suthorized to receive a proportion of a Member, Stite's  contribution in national currency, on, ‘the’ basis of pro-  gramme expenditure requirements, u that ameïdment  were accepted, the Director-General could negotiate  with the Member States concerned with regard to the  amount of their anrmal payment of arrears which they  could pay in ‘national currency, on the basis of the  Organization's needs once the programme for 1957-
1958 had been finally approved by the General Con-  ference,
(5), The CHAIRMAN called for comments on Parts I,  U and II of document 9C/ADM/4 and, there being nene,  declared those parts of the Report adopted. He then  opened discussion on Part IV of the document.
(6) Mr. WELLNER (Ctectioëioéaxia} ‘wished to ‘make  certain comments on béhalf € of his "delegation. As .  could be seen from ‘document 9C, ADM 4, the Cgeclio-  slovak Government had paid Unesco'a sim of $60,065,  part of which, to‘the value of $36,039, ‘wag “in national  currency, , Of the Bum paid in Czethonlovake koruna,  Unéaco had so far béen able to’ use ‘the equivalent of .  $15,107 only, He realized that auch à state of affaire  was not very satisfactory, [It wi 8 due partly’ to the  fact that the ‘method of payrient | was a new’ one for the  Czectoslèvak ernment and partly to the necessity  of finding the best way of using the amount paid in |  national currency. It was only recently that any prac-  tical results had been obtained fn the latter djrection,  Mr, Wellner emphasized that, in view of the con-  tacts already established, it would probably bé éäsler :  in fufuré to find a rational use for the amount paid'in  koruna,’ Czechoslovakia’, could under “pti à work  for Urèuco, for example, “and would bé‘able té supply  building materials and ‘equipment for the Headquarters  building. It could also provide facilities for seminars  and othe meetings organized as part of Unesco's pro-  gramme,’ aiid could accept Uriésco ‘téllowahip | Holdérs.  The Crechoslovak Government was well aware of =  Unesco's need té receive regular contributions to,  enable it to carry out its programme, ‘and had thé firm  intention of fulfilling its obligations. Mr, Wellner _  hoped, however, that the General Conference would  take into consideration thé difficulties that had to be   v-8  overcome, and that it would be possible to subatitute  the text of document 9C/DR/59 for that of paragraph
1.5 in the annexed draft resolution.
(7) Mr. ZULAWSKI (Poland) put forward the Polish  delegation's point of view. As shown in document
9C/ADM/4, Poland had paid off the amount of arrears  due in 1955- -1956, but in spite of the Polish Govern-  ment's efforts and those of the Secrétariat, no satis-  factory use had yet been found for the amount paid in  national currency.’ Negotiations had been opened on  the subject only's year previously and it was too early  ag yet to judge of results. Moreover, the negotiations  had been approached from the administrative stand-  point and, in his opinion, | the solution should be sought  rather in Unesco's programme.’ The Polish Govern-  ment had already suggested to the Director-Géneral  that it should orgenize seminars and meetings in 1957,  and others could be planned for 1958, Experience had  shown that the organisation of à deminar involved con-  siderable expense. The official budget estimate for a  single seminar- amounted to 45,000 zlofys. Unesco  might consider thé possibility of paying its subventions  for such seminars in national currency.’  Mr. Zulawski emphasized the difficultiés confronting  Poland; especially where foreign currency was con-  cerned. He Fécalled, ‘morcôver ;‘ that the remainder  of the arrears ‘owed by his country ‘covered’a’ périod  in the past when Poland was not participating in the  activities of Unesco and had not been able to benefit  from the advantages which the Organization offered its  Member States. He therefore requested the Admini-  atrative Commission to consider the draft resolution  in document 9C/DR/58 as a substitute for paragraph
3.5 of the draft resolution annexed to document
8C/ADM/4.
(8) Mr! GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lica) raised à point of order, “The Director-General  had stated that he was unable to give details of the.  means of using national currencies which might bé.  contemplated in’ 1957 aid 1958, ° But thé consideration  of the programme and budget ‘during ‘the Conference  would no doubt open up new avenues and clarify the  sitigtion nearer to’ ‘the end of the session. It was  illogical, therefore, to consider forthwith a problem  which could be solved more easily later on.-  He accordingly suggested that the Commission post-,  pone its decision until it knew the results of the Pro-  gramme Commission's work.
(9) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assislant birector- General)  said the Secretariat could support the proposal of the  delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics if  he meant that the Secretariat would bring forward new  proposals regarding the utilization of the national cur-  rencies in question after the Programme Commission  had made its recommendations. It was not a respon-  sibility of the General Conference to review the work  plans upon which plans for the utilization of national  currencies would be based, and the Programme Com-  mission waild not be entering inio details of that  nature.
(10) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) indicated his agreement with that inter-  pretation of his proposal.
566  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION
(11) -Spgéking against the motion for adjournment of  the debate, Mr. McCLINTOCK (United States of  America) thought that such an important question of  principle required immediate study by the Adminle-  trative Commission. He had been somewhat disturbed  by the suggestions of the delegates of Czechoslovakia  and Poland tha? certain programme activities should  be carried out in their countries in order to make use  of the contributions they wished to make in their  national currencies, The logical conclusion of sucha  policy would be that Unesco's programme would be .  governed to a large extent by the currencies of coutrl-  butions, and other States with convertibility difficulties  would use that argument to obtain a greater share of  programme activities in their countries. Hib delega-  tion would support the amended proposal of the  Director General,
(12) Mr, MALYSHEV (Byelorussian 8 Soviet Socialist’  Republic) sgreed with the delegate of the Union of -  Soviet Socialist Republics. The Administrative Com-  mission had not yet sufficient detailed information to!  enable it to solve a problem which was closely bound:  up with the consideration of the programms and budget,  and countries like Czechoslovakia and Poland could be  of considerable assistance tô Unesco in carrying out  its programme. He therefore supported the proposal  of the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics,
(13) The motion for adjournment of the debate was put  to the vote and rejected by 29 votes to 11, with 4  rbatentions. -
(14) Contiming the discussion, Mr. ANSARY (Afghan-  istan) said that, although be had been glad to hear that  Unesco activities in Pôlahd and Czechoslovakia were  expanding, he did not think it was wise to fix too  rigidly the percentage of the contributions from those  countries that should be paid in their national cur- *  réncies. He agreed that Unesco should do its utmost  to use contributions received in‘ those currencies, but  without attempting to determine in advance the exact  sum involved,
(18) Mr. HLA (Union of Burma) pointed out that many  small’ péter) experienced difficulty in finding sut-  ficient funds in French francs, pounds sterling or United  States dollars to pay their contributions to Unesco, and  urged that, wherever possible, efforts be made to  alleviate that difficuity by accepting a proportion of the  contribution in the national currency, to pay for any °  Unesco activities in the country concerned.
(16) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the resohition ‘  covering the payment of contributions to the 1957- -1958  budget authorized the Director-General to accept con-  tributions in national currencies to the extent to which  they could be utilized in implémentation of the pro-  gramme for that period. He therefore felt thai the  amended resolution proposed by the Director-General  met the points raised by the delegates of Afghanistan  and Burma. ;
(17) At the request of the delegate of the Netherlands,  Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) read the relevant  paragraphs of resolution 17. 3 of the seventh session,   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION v-8  referred to in the draft resolution submitted by the  delegation of Cxechosloyvakia, which related to the cur-  rency of contributions and was couched in the same  terms as that adopted by the eighth session, and that  proposed for adoption by the ninth session.
(18) Mr. JOCHAMOWITZ (Peru) wished to record  bis vote in favour of a sympathetic attitude towards  the three countries concerned, which were doing .  everything in their power to keep up to date with thelr  contributions. Their behaviour to date clearly demon-  strated their good faith ini thé matter, and the Peruvian  delegation therefore urged that Unesco should display  more indulgence than in the past, He wished to point  out that he was speaking in that way because Unesco's  lack of understanding had given rise to an incident in  relation to his own delegation, whose contribution had  not been received. Although the General Conference  had unanimously allowed Peru its right to vote, the  incident had been a disagreeable one. He wished to  take the opportunity of stating that Unesco had now  received Peru's contribution, and of repeating that the  difficult circumstances in which certain countries  sometimes found themselves should be taken into  account, and they should be helped to fulfil their obli-  gations without excessive strain on their resources.  He hoped particularly that the case of Poland would be  considered as demonstrating that country's good faith  and will to solve the problem in spite of the difficulties  it had to face.
(19) Mr. FAIREY (Canada) appreciated the dèsire of |  those countries with convertibility difficulties to pay  part of their contributions in their national currency,  but felt that thé wishes of those States should be.  balanced against the interests and needs of the Orga-  ‘nisation. He bélieved that the amendéd proposal  made by the Director-General represented as reason-  thle a solution of the problem as could be reached at  the tigae. The real point at iasue in the two draft  resclytions before the meeting was à request for con-  timation of thé preferential treatment granted by the  Conference at its previous séssion. He saw several  reasons why that request should not be granted; in the  first place the concession had been made on a trial’  basis, and the report présented by the Director-  General showed that thè e iment had not been à  success. The delegates of Poland and Czechoslovakia  hed referred to the possibilitie of the greater utiliza-  tion of their national currencies in 1957 and 1258, but  the Director-General liad expressed certain doubts  and had not wished to commit himéelf on that point.  There was, therefore, an elémient of risk which the  Organization would nôt be justified in accepting, In  the second place, the payment of contributions in  national currencies unfortunately led to ad increase  in thé administrative work load. Mention was made in  document 9C/ALM/4 of the visit of the Chief Engineer  in charge of the construction of the new headquartera  to Prague, Budapest and Warsaw, and the Commis-  sion had heard of the Director-General's visit to those  capitals'änd his discussion of the problem \nder con-  sideration, Thirdly, as the delegate of the United  States of America had pointed out, if an attempt were  to be made to use contributions in national currencies  by expanding activities in the countries concerned,  Unesco's programme would have to be rearranged and
567     oriented towards projects that made the best use of  those currencies. The basic multilateral nature of the  Organization would thus be deformed and Unesco would  tend to become merely a clearing house for bilateral  projects, more espscially as other Member States with  convertibility problems would undoubtedly take advan-  tage of the precedent created to request permission to  pay a percentage of their contributions in their national  currency.
(20) Mr. : PETROV (Bulgaria) regretted that the Com-  mission had not agreed; as suggested by the delegate  of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, to péetpons  its decision to a later ‘date, when it knew what had been  decided by the Programme Commission. The question  of the payment of arfears by Czechoslovakia and Poland  had to be settled fairly. Those two countries had be-  longed to Unesco for a number of years and had givea  renewed proof of their intention to liquidate their debts.  They had made practical proposals relating to the execu-  tion of printing work, the provision of materials for  the Headquarters building and the organisation of meet-  ings and seminars, as means of using the sums paid in  national currency. The good intentions shown by those  proposals should prompt the Commission to adopt a  sympathetic attitude and to authorize them to pay, as  they requested, 60 per cent of their arrears of con-  tributions in national currency.
(21) Mr. Nguyen-QUANG-TRINH (Viet- -Nam) drew the  attentlon of delegates to paragraph 3 of reschution  V.1,51 adopted by the Conference at its eighth session,  under which the Director-General was instructed to  report to each ordinaiy session of the Gensral Con-  ference, "advisirg in particular on the extent to which  subsequent payments may be made in Czechoslovakian  national currency, ha ‘regard to the principle  emnciated in resolution 7.3 of the seventh session of  the General Conference",  The delegate of Viet-Nam wondered whether the  Commission shold not consider itself bound to a cer-  tain extent by that resolution, which recognized the  principle of according special facilities to Lxechoslo-  vakia, The rather vagüe conclusions of document
9C/ADM/4 did riot seem to correspond 27icily to the  wishes expressed by the Conference at its eighth  session. He hoped that, during the current session,  the Conference would tuké that resolution into consi-  deration and that, after a thorough study of the pro-  posed programme and budget, it would formulate ;  specific proposals on which the Administrative Comi-  mission could reach & decision.
(22) .Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General):  pointed cut that the relevant resolution of the eighth’  . session merely requested the Director-General to  report to each ordinary session of thé General Con-  ference on the implementation of the resolution,  "advieing in particular on thé extent to which subse-  quent payments may be made in ... national currency" ,  no reference béiñg made to the exact proportion or  percentage of those payments which might be made in -  national currency. He believed that the provisions of  that resolution were met by the report and amended  draft resolution presented by the Director-General.
(23) Mr.GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics).   v-8  referred to a point in the Canadian delegate's state-  ment which seemed to him likely to cause & certain  amount of confusion; Mr; Fairey had spoken of the  contributions due from Member States for the current  financial period, But Fungary, Poland, ard Czechoslo-  vakis were paying their current contributions regul-  arly, ‘in accordance with the rules laid down for all  Member States. The problem related solely to the  payment of the arrears which had accumulated as a  result of the fact that the three countries concerned  had ceased for séveral years to take part in Unesco's  activities, without ceasing to belong to the Organiza-  tion. At the eighth session they had announced their  desire to pay oif those arrears and it was in the in-  terests of the Organization to reach an agreement with  them on that point, À resolution had been adopted,  under which payment of arrears could be made up to
60 per cent in national currency.  Mr. Golunsky felt that it was difficult, in the cir-  cumstances, to agree with the Canadian delegate's  view thai that course had been adopted as an experi-  ment at that it had failed, Such a conclusion was  premature, Two years was too short a time after  which to assert that all possibilities had been exhaus-  ted. Moreover, the Director-General had not reached  the conclusion that it was impossible to find a means  of using sums paid in national currency, but had hinted  at other arrangements that might be. made in the future.  It would be only just, therefore, to prolong the experi-  ment for another two years, and Mr, Golunsky accor-  dingly supported the proposals of Poland and Czecho-  slovakia.
(24) Mr, DEBEAUVAIS (France) remarked that the  situation was an exceptional one and that it was a  question of deciding whether to apply the Financial  Regulations strictly or to allow some flexibility. On  the basis of certain precedents, it might be concluded  that delegations favoured a generous interpretation.  That was the import of the resolution adopted at the  eighth session in the cases of Czechoslovakia, Hungary,  and Poland, and of the decisions in respect of China  taken at previous sessions,  He thought that, in view of the spe cial situation and  of the effort clearly being made by Czechoslovakia and  Poland, it would be advisable to agree to the proposal  of the Director - General's representative and place a  wide interpretation on the Regulations.
(25) In réply to a request ‘for. clarification by the dele-  gate of the Netherlands, the CHAIRMAN explained that  the Commission was conzidering only the method of  payment of the instalments of arrears of contribution  by Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Poland, The question  of regular contributions to the budget for 1957-1958  had been settled by adoption of the resolution to which  reference had alréady been made.
(26) Mr, FUENTES (Chile) thought that thé subject of  the Coinmission's discussion was perfectly clear. ~  Proposals had béen made by Czeéhoslovakia and Poland  that they be allowed to 60 per cent of the amount  of arrears due in 1957 and 1958 in national currency,  and there was also the Director-General's amendment  to the existing text, requesting authority to discuss  with those countries the form in which they should  pay their arrears,
568     ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION
(27) Mr, BARON CASTRO (EI Salvador) thought that -.  the Organization should be very strict about the pay-  ment of future contributions, but the cases before the -  Commission involved past debts, and a certain amount .  of leniency and flexibility was necessary if they were.  in fact to be paid. He thought that Unesco could find  ways of using the amounts of national currency in ques-  tion, especially while the Headquarters building was  under construction,
(28) Replying to a péint of order raised by the dele-  gate of Australia, the CHAIRMAN explained that the  Commission would vote first on the amendments pro- .  posed by the delegations of Czechoslovakia and Poland  and that, if those amendments were accepted, the =  delegation of Hungary would be at liberty to submit a -  similar amendment with respect to its own payments.  If onthe other hand, those amendments were rejected,  the amended proposal of the Director-General, which  covered the payments to be made by all three countries,  would be put to the vote.
(29) The amendment submitted by the delegation of  Czechoslovakia (document 9C/DR/59) was put to the  vote and rejected by 29 votes to 13, with 5 abstentions.
(30) The amendment submitted by the delegation of  Poland (document 9C/DR/58) was put to the vote and  rejected by 29 votes to 13, with 5 abstentions.
(31) The draft resolution proposed by the Director-  General in the Annex to document 9C/ADM/4, as  amended in paragraphs 1,5, 2.5 and 3.5, was adopted  by 41 votes to 0, with 10 abstentions.  ITEM 13.4 OF THE AGENDA : STAFF COMPENSATION FUND FOR  SERVICE-INCURRE D DEATH OR DISABILITY (document 9C/ADM/ 10)
(32) Mr. HARPER -SMITH (Comptroller) presented  the document prepared by the Secretariat on the item,  and drew attention to the fact that any surpius at 31  December 1956 over the maximum figure of $50,000  laid down for the Fund would be credited to the General  Fund,
(33) There being no objection, the draft resolution  proposed by the Director-General in document
9C/ADM/10 was adopted unanimously.  ITEM 13.5 OF THE AGENDA + ELECTION OF REPRESENTATIVES  OF MEMBER STATES TO THE UNFSCO STAFF PENSION COMMITTEE  FOR 1957 AND 1958 (document 9C/ADM/11)
(34) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) presented  Part I of the document and drew attention to the draft  resolution submitted by the Director-General in para-  graph 12 thereof. .
(35) Mr. CAMPBELL (New Zealand) proposed that the  members and altérnaté members who had served on  the Unesco Staff Pension Committee for the period
1955-1956 be re-elected to serye for the period 1957-
(36) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) asked that the list of   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  countries with permanent delegations in Paris be |  read out so that members might be elected who had  not served before. He stressed that the Commission  had the right to elect other members and for that pur-  pose the list was necessary.
(37) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) hoped that the  Commission would be informed not only of the  countries which had permanent delegations in Paris  tut also of those which had already served on  the Committee, together with their length of  service,
(38) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  announced that the following Member States main-  tained permanent. delegations in Paris: Argentina,  Austria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Chile,  China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Ecuador,  Egypt, El Salvador, France, Federal Republic of  Geruiit,y, Greece, Hungary, Iran, Iraq, Israel,  Italy, Japan, Lebanon, Mexico, Panama, Para-  guay, Peru, Poland, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey,  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United King-  dom, United States of America, Uruguay,  Venezuela and Yugoslavia,  The following Member States had already served  on the Unesco Staff Pension Committee: Australia,  Brazil, Egypt, France, Italy, Japan, Lebanon and  the United States of America. ;  In addition, Mr. Adieeshiah thought the Commis-  sion might be interested to know that Unesco had  felt for some time that the 37-member United  Nations Joint Staff Pensions Board was unneces-  sarily large and unwieldy and that the intéreats of  both efficiency and economy would be served by a  reduction in membership. Unesco had accordingly  proposed a reduction to ten members, and that  proposal had been retained for consideration at the  next meeting of the Board. However, as thé report  of the United Nations Salary Review Committee was  at the moment under discussion by the United Nations  General Assembly and by the governing bodies of  the Specialized Agencies, and as, if adopted, that  report would give rise to considerable changes in  the Joint Staff Pensions Fund, Unesco had agreed  not to press for the suggested reduction in mem-  bership of the Board at the moment.
(39) Mr. VEDOVATO (Italy) supported the New  Zealand delegate's proposal that the representatives  of Member States who had served on the  Committee during the period 1955-1956 be re-  elected.
(40) Mr, FUENTES (Chile) agreed with the delegates  of Spain and Mexico, as an election was involved and  the Commission should know what had been done in  the past. He proposed that the election be held during  the afternoon meeting.
(41) The CHAIRMAN felt that the proposal of the  delegate of Chile was sound and ruled that, whereas  nominations could be received at the current meeting,  à vote would not be taken until the afternoon meeting  of the Commission.   (42) Mr, PLATZ (Federal Republic of Germany)
569  v-8  seconded the proposal of the delegate of New Zealand,  as he felt that continuity in the membership of the  Committee would be of advantage.
(43) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) proposed that, in the  interests of continuity, the existing members  of the Committee should be replaced by the  alternates ard that three new alternates should be  elected,
(44) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain). agreed with  the Mexican delegate and proposed Chile, the  Federal Republic of Germany and Turkey as  candidates.
(45) Miss YIM (Korea) supported the view that  those countries which had not yet served on the  Committee should be given an opportunity to do  so, and urged that the candidature of Korea be  considered.
(46) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  drew attention to the statement contained in paragraph
3 of document 9C/ADM/11 to the effect that, for  reasons of practical expedience, and in the interests  of economy, it had been the practice of the ‘General  Conference to chocse its representatives on the Staff  Pension Committee from amongst those Member  States which maintained permanent delegations in  Paris. However, the General Conference was free to  depart from that practice if it so desired, although he  pointed out that no provision was made in the budget  for 1957-1958 for the travel of members of that  Committee.
(47) The proposal of the delegate of Korea was not  seconded,
(48) Réplying to a question from the delegate of  the United States of America, Mr, HARPER-  SMITH (Comptroller) regretted his inability to give  precise figures of the attendance of previous mem-  bers of the Committee, but could state that it  had always been satisfactory and that there had  never been any difficulty in-obtaining -the necessary  quorum,
(49) There being no further nominations, the CHAIR-.  MAN announced that the Commission ‘sould proceed  to vote by ballot at the afternoon meeting to elect the  three members and three alternate members of the  Committee from amongst the nine Member States so  far nominated: Australia, Chile, France, Federal  Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, Lebanon, Turkey  and the United States of America. .
(50) Raising a point of order, Mr. MUNRO  (Australia) submitted’ that a vote ky ballot would be  unnecessary, as‘ there were only two proposals  before the meeting: (1) to re-elect the outgoing memi-  bera and their alternates; and (11) to elect as mem-  bers the States which had sérved #6 alternatés during  the 1955-1956 period, and to elect as alteriiates in  their place Chile, Turkey and the Federal Republic  of Germany.
(51) The CHAIRMAN concurred in that view and ruled   v-0  that a vote on the proposals made would take place at  the beginning of the afternoon meeting.  STEMS 13.6 AND 13,7 OF THE ACENDA | AMENDHENTS TO  “THE REGULATIONS AND ADMINIITRATIVE RULES OF THE  “UNITED NATIONS JOINT STAFF PENSION FUND ; ANNUAL  REPORT ON TEE UNITED NATIONS JOINT STAFF PENSION  FUND (document 9C/ADM/11)
(62) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) presented  Part Il of the document and drew attention to the one  substantive change in the Regulations of the Fund that  had been reported to, and approved by, the General  Assembly of the United Nations. The report was sub-  mitted for information only, and the General Confer-  ence was merely required to take note thereof.
(53) Thére being no comments, the CHAIRMAN  announced that the Administrative Commission would  recommend the General Conference to take note of  that report.  ITEM 13.6 OF TRE AGENDA : USE OF PENSION FUND CAPITAL  FOR HOUSING LOANS TO STAFF (document 9C/ADM/23)  {54) Sir Ben Bovyp THEYAS (United Kiigdom) (Rep-  resentative of the ¥-icutive Board) explained that the  Exc cutive Board at its’ 44th session had considered  the proposals made by the Secretary-General of the  United Nations and had adopted a resolution couched  in similar termu to that proposed by the Director-  polo on page 2 of document 9C/ADM/23:
(55) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) presented  document 9C/ADM/23 and explained the system  approved by the Investments Committee of the United  Nations, whereby loans would be made by the Pension  Fund to particpéting Agencies, which would then be  NINTH  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  responiible for making loans to individual members .  of their staff. The salient features of the plan were  outlined in paragraph 2 of the document, where it  would be seen that the loans to be made would not be :  large, the intention being merely to provide staff  members with the means to make the initial down-  payment on a house or flat. The main principles that  had guided the Secretary-General of the United Nations  in préparing the plan had been that the security of the  - Pension Fund capital should not be jeopardized in any  way, and that pensions payable in the event of death,  diasbtiy, or retirement should not be affected,  ector-General believed that the plan provided  a workable method of assisting staff members to solve '  the very pressing problem of housing, and that it was  worthy of considération by the General Conference. -  Replying to a'question from the delégaté of Australia,  Mr. Harper-Smith explainéd that only the loans betwesn”  the Pension Fund and the organization concérned would  be made in United States dollars, the loan between  the organization and the staff member being made in the  currency required for the actual housing. ' That pro-  vision had been insarted so as to guarantee the capital  of the Pension Fund, which was maintained in United  States dollars,  Replying to a question from the delegate of Canada,  Mr. Harper-Smith said that the Consulting Actuary to  the Unitéd Nations Joint Staff Pensions Board had been  present during the discussion of the proposed plan, but  that, as the problem was an investment rather than an  actuarial matter, it had been addressed to the Invest-  ments Committee. In actual fact, the capital of the  Pension Fund should remain intact and there should be  no actuarial repercussions.
(56) There being no further comment, the draft resolu-  tion submitted by the Director-General on page 2 of  the document was adopted.   The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m,  MEETING
14 November 1956, at 3. 39 p, m.  Chairman: Mr. DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 13.3 OF THR AGENDA ; ELECTION = WLPRESENTATIVES  OF MEMBER STATES TO THE UNESCO STAFF PENSION COMMITTEE  FOR 1997 AND 1908 (continued) (document '9C/ ADM/11)
(1) The [asked the Commission to resume  its discussion of Part I of document 9C/ADM/11. He  recalied that the delegate of New Zealand had proposed  that the existing members and alternates continue in  office for the next two-year period. The delegations  of Mexico and Spain, on the other hand, had proposed  that the existing alternates - Japen, Lebanon and the  United States of America - become titular members  and that the Federal Republic of Germany, Chile and  Turkey be appointed alternates.
(2) Mr. CAMPBELL (New Zealand) withdrew his  proposal in favour of that of Mexico and Spain.
3) Also seconding the proposal of Mexico and Spain,  Mrs. HEFFELFINGER (United States of America)  announced that the United States of America would be  happy to withdraw in favour of one of the countries