VIII-6  the Constitution. With regard to the seat of the  Organization, it would be stated that the question had  been the subject of a resolution adopted at the London  Conference and reproduced in a document signed by  several countries, but the precise legal significance  of the decision would not be defined.
(40) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) indicated his  agreement with the general outline of the Committee's  report given by the Legal Adviser, Referring to the  point raised by the delegate of the United States of  America with respect to sub-paragraph (e) of Rule
81, he saw no reason why a statement of the reasons  that had led to the inclusion of that item in the Rule  should not be ‘included in thé Committee's report. It  could even be stated that that itern might be considered  to be in a different category from sub-paragraphs (f),  (g) and (h), although it was evident that all four items  were alike, in the sense that none of them was  covered by a specific proviaion of the Constitution.
(41) It was decided that the report should be drawn  up on the basis just outlined.  ITEM 14.30F THF. AGENDA: REPORT ON THE APPLICATION OF THE  RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR THE CALLING OF INTERNATIONAL  CONFERENCES OF STATES (document 9C/ADM/ 14)
(42) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) stated that the  General Conference in 1952 had adopted two sets of  Rules of Procedure, one for the calling of interna-  tional conferences of States and the other for the  calling of non-governmental conferences. They were  based on rules of procedure adopted by the General    LEGAL COMMITTEE  Assembly of the United Nations in 1949 and 1950,  empowering the Economic and Social Couticil to call  conferences of that type," Document 90/ADM/14 des-  cribed certain difficulties encountéred by the Secre-  tariat in applying those Rules of Procedure, In the  first place, there was the question of the exact mean-  irg of the term "international conferences of States".  That term should be interpretéd mainly as meaning  a conference of duly accredited representatives of  States, meeting for the purpose of adopting interna-  tional conventions or recommendations, and reporting  the results of their labours directly to each of the  participating govérnments. That category could not  be taken to covèr meetings of experts, such as that  held in India to study the social problems resulting  from industrialization whose findings were addressed  to the competent bodies of the Organization, or con-  ferences convened not by Unesco itself but by a Mem-  ber State. International conferences of States should  apparently be essentially sovereign bodies independent  of any specific organization,  He went on to explain that document 9C/ADM/14 was  submitted to the Legal Committee to enable it to judge  whether the practice followed by the Organization was  truly in conformity with the rules adopted. Hedrew  attention to paragraph 19, which summarized the con-  clusions that could be drawn after four years of  experience, He thought, however, that the document  was worthy of thorough study by the members of the  Committee and therefore proposed that discussion on  it be adjourned to a later meeting.  Agreed. .  The meeting rose at 1 p.m,  SIXTH MEETING
26 November 1956, at 3. 45 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. MATSUI (Japan)  THIRD REPORT OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE  (TWO-THIRDS MAJORITY) (document 9C/JUR/PROV/5)
(1) The CHAIRMAN submitted document 9C/JUR/  PROV/5 for the Committee's approval,
(2) Paragraphs 1-8 were approved.
(3) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America) sug-  gested omitting the second sentence of paragraph 9  but thought that that point might be brought out more  clearly after a discussion of paragraphs 11 and 12,
(4) Paragraph 10 was approved.
(5) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America) thought
696  that paragraph 11 should be considered together with  paragraph 12 because of their close relation. Para-  graph 11 provided for a general rule for a simple  majority, a list of the subjects which required a two-  thirds majority, and a provision for the determination  of additional categories of such questions by the  General Conference by a simple majority. He thought  that if the additional categories were listed in the Rules  of Procedure, paragraph 12 could be eliminated. The  General Conference could always add to the list of gub-  jects requiring a two-thirds majority.
(6) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the United  States delegate therefore considered that the United  Nations Charter should not be taken as a model,  and whether he preferred to introduce a separate   LEGAL COMMITTEE  proposal, omitting the last sentence of paragraph
(1) Mr, SIMSARIAN (United States of America) sug- °  gested leaving paragraph 11 as it stood, and adding a ,  sentence which would read: "Such additional cate-  gories would be listed in the Rules of Procedure",
(8) Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) did not think the Constitution contained any such  provisions, and held that it would be unadvisable to  delete the last sentence of paragraph 11, The effect  of the sentence suggested by thé United States dele-  gate would be to bind the Conference anew; whereas  the sentence contained in clause (c) authorized the  General Conference to take decisions by a two-thirds  majority not only on the questions mentioned in the  Rules of Procedure, but on other questions as well,  To list in advance the questions which required that  majority would bé tantamount to restricting the free-  dom of the Conference, Mr, Simsarian's proposal  might also necessitate amendment of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference. It would there-  fore be beat first to reach agreement on which ques+  tions were to be decided by simple majority and ~  which were to require a two-thirds majority.
(9) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that the question  was one of substance and not of wording. It had been  the Committee's wish that the various ways in which  the question under discussion could be solved should  be enumerated, There were three ways. The first  was to set down in the Constitution an exhaustive list  of cases requiring a two-thirds majority, The sécond  method was that used in the United Nations, which  provided that any question considered important by .  the General Assembly required a two-thirds majority.  If the third method was used, the questions requiring  a two-thirds majority would be those listed by the  General Conference in its Rules of Procedure. That  would imply that, during a discussion, the General  Conference would not be able to consider whether a  particular question should be settled by a two-thirds  majority, as all cases in which such a majority was  required would be listed in the Rules of Procedure.  Other categories could be added only by amending the  Rules of Procedure, - .  He suggested that, unless the Committee wished to  make a formal recommendation for one system or  another, it would be preferable for it to confine itself  to listing the possible methods. The delegate of the  United States of America had proposed that the Con-  ference be recommended to decide that the Constitu-  tion should be amended and to instruct the Director -  General to study the three possible methods of so  doing, in consultation with the Executive Board and  Member States, 80 as to prepare the draft amend-  ments to be submitted to the General Conference. It  would therefore be sufficient to amend paragraphs 13  and 14, and possibly paragraph 9, in order to remove  those phrases that left any doubt about the procedure  to be followed.
(10) Mr, ARTHUR (United Kingdom) agreed with Mr.  Saba; paragraphs 10, 11 and 12 stated three alterna-  tives and he was in favour of leaving them as they  stood with the United States amendment which would
687  VII-6  make sub- paragraph (c) of paragraph 11 clearer,  He wondered, however, whether the Committee should  recommend only one possibility to the Administrative  Commission; it might be a good idea to indicate some  choice. He suggested that the procedure outlined in  paragraph 11 was preferable to the other two, The  Administrative Commission could request the Director-  General to prepare, with the accord of the Executive  Board, the necessary amendments for consideration  at the tenth session of the General Conference.
(11) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan) reminded the Com-  mittee that he had already given his opinion on the  solution proposed in paragraph 11, The procedure  described in paragraph 10 appeared to him to be more  in keeping with the spirit of the Constitution, He.  feared that the solution proposed in paragraph 11 (oc),  in particular, would enable any delegation to ask for  a change in the required majority at any time. ‘In the  discuasion of the budget ceiling, such a procedure  might very well completely paralyse the Conference.  He therefore thought that, while the three possible  methods should be listed and the Director-General  instructed to make a thorough study of the question  before submitting a proposal, it would be better  not to recommend any particular one of those  methods.
(12) Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) agreed with Mr. Haguiwara and referred to the  difficulties that had faced the Urited Nations in cer-  tain cases, as, for example, during the examination  of a petition with regard to the situation in certain  African territories. To avoid deadlock it had had to  seek the opinion of The Hague Court,
(13) Mr, SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  pointed out that the method outlined in paragraph 11  was a reflection of Article 18 of the Charter of the  United Nations; he was not in favour of handling the  matter in exactly the same manner as in the United  Nations, Only the principle of the list of questions  requiring the two-thirds majority should be laid down  by the Committee, while the General Conference  should be authorized to list additional categories of  such questions, Listing the categories in the Rules  of Procedure would avoid a periodical handling of such  matters, and that was why he was in favour of a  middle course, as affording greater stability. The  Director-General, in consultation with the Executive  Board, could draft'a proposed amendment based on  the method outlined in paragraph 11, for submission  to the tenth session, The drawback of the method out-  lined in paragraph 12 was that it did not set forth in  the Constitution any queations requiring the two-thirds  majority, not even the amendment of the Constitution  itself. Finally, the General Conference at its next  session could debate whether additions to the list of  questions requiring the two-thirds majority should  themselves be adopted by a simple majority or by a  two-thirds vote.
(14) The CHAIRMAN said that the question facing the  Committee was whether it should formally indicate  its preference for one of the possible methods, or  whether it should leave that responsibility to the  Administrative Commission.   vii-6
(15) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) suggested a compro-  mise solution, It would be sufficient to mention in  paragraph 11 the solution contained in the existing  paragraph 12, and to reproduce in paragraph 12 the  wording of the existing paragraph 11 (a) and (b), with  a provision to the effect that questions requiring a  two-thirds majority would be listed in the Rules of  Procedure. The Committee might add that, while it  considered the last solution the more acceptable, a  thorough study of the two solutions (in the amended  form) should be made by the Director-General and  the Executive Board, which would report to the Con-  ference at its next session.  In reply to a question from the Chairman, Mr,  Haguiwara said that, in his new paragraph 12, sub-  paragraph (c) would more or less follow the wording  of the existing paragraph 12.
(16) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) summarized Mr.  Haguiwara's proposal, which would consist in adopt-  ing the solution set forth in the existing paragraph 12  and combining it with paragraph ii, Sub-paragraph  (c) might be worded as follows: "a provision stating  that the General Conference could, by the insertion of  appropriate provisions in its Rules of Procedure,  determine additional categories of questions to be  decided by a two-thirds majority, such determination  being itself voted by a simple majority’. The Com-  mittee might also, if it so desired, mention that it did  not favour the solution set forth in paragraph 10.
(17) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) pointed out that  Unesco was not altogether based on the same prin-  ciples as the United Nations, and that it should in  general adhere to the simple majority rule, the only  exceptions being those specifically mentioned in the  Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. The solu-  tion contained in paragraph 10 was in fact the only  one in conformity with the spirit of the Constitution  and therefore, from the legal standpoint, was the one  to choose.
(18) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) agreed with the  representative of Japan, The Committee could say  that its preference was for the procedure outlined in  paragraph 11, but that it was not sufficiently deeply  convinced to make a categorical recommendation to  the Administrative Commission. In his opinion, the  whole matter needed further study by the Director-  General and the Executive Board.
(19) The CHAIRMAN, after Mr. Haguiwara had  stated that the United Kingdom delegate had inter-  preted his views aright, put the question to the Com-  mittee, which approved the solution proposed by Mr.  Haguiwara.
(20) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the Committee  would agree to leave the Rapporteur ard the Secre-  tary to redraft the last two paragraphs of the docu-  ment in the light of the amendments that had just been  made to the preceding paragraphs.
(21) Mr, ARTHUR (United Kingdom), réferring to  paragraph 13, thought that it should be indicated that  the Director-General would draft the necessary text
698  LEGAL COMMITTEE  in consultation with the Board, before submitting it  to the Member States.
(22) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  agreed that a modification of paragraph 13 was neces-  sary to make it conform with the Committee's decision.  He had suggested making a suitable roference at the  end of paragraph 11 for the sake of clearness.
(23) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that, in that  case, there would be no further need to maintain  paragraph 12, If the new categories of questions were  to be listed in the Rules of Procedure, that would  indicate clearly that amendment of the Rules of Pro-  cedure would be necessary, solution 2 thus being  modified by method 3. He reread his proposed amend-  ment to paragraph 11 (c).
(24) Mr, SIMSARIAN (United States of America) de-  clared that he was entirely satisfied.
(25) Mr, ARTHUR (United Kingdom) sald he had no  objection to dropping paragraph 12; he pointed out,  however, that thé paragraph spoke only of questions  listed in the Rules of Procedure,. whereas paragraph
11 outlined a method whereby certain questions would  be listed in the Constitution, The list under sub-  paragraph (b) still required an amendment of the Con-  stitution. The United States proposal {o say at the end  of paragraph 11 that additional categories should be  listed in the Rules of Procedure did not cut out the  necessity for paragraph 12, since the latter outlined a  method which went further than the one outlined in  paragraph 11,
(26) Mr. VAN PEURSEN (Netherlands) understood  that the United Kingdom delegate would prefer that  paragraph 12 be deleted, since the Constitution already  mentioned cases requiring a two-thirds majority, that  paragraphs 11 and 12 be combined, and that the exist  ing paragraph 11 (c) become paragraph 12.
(27) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) considered that there  were only slight differences between the opinions of  the Committee's members. In his view, the proposal  of the United States delegate signified that the Consti-  tution, besides laying down the questions to be deter-  mined by a two-thirds majority, would include a pro-  vision authorizing the General Conference to add new  categories of questions requiring such # majority by  amending the Rules of Procedure. Mr: Saba explained  that he had never interpreted paragraph 12 of the draft  report as implying’ that the provisions already included  in the Constitution, and setting out the catégories of  questions to be decided by à two-thirds majority,  should be deleted. In his opinion, paragraph 12 was  merely intended to provide that the General Conference  could, by means of amendments to the Rules of Pro-  cedure, determine new categories of questions to be  added to those already specified in the Constitution.  It was for that reason that he: had thought that the  United States delegate's proposal corresponded to that  in paragraph 12.
(28) The Committee decided to leave the Rapporteur  and the Secretary to amend the report without resub-  mitting it to the Committee for approval.   LEGAL  ITEM 14.1 OF THE AGENDA: PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE  RULES OF PROCEDURE OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  (continued) (document 9C/ADM/12)
(28) The CHAIRMAN asked one of the members of  the drafting committee set up to study Rule T8A  to present the committee's conclusions.
(30) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) said that the drafting  committee, which had consisted of the delegate of the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the delegate of  the United States of America and himaelf, wished to  propose the following text for Rule 78A of the Rules  of Procedure:  "Any Member State which proposes the discussion  and separate vote in plenary meeting of a subject  previously considered in the Programme or Admini-  strative Commission and not included as a specific  proposal in the report of such Commission, shall give  notice to the President of the General Conference in  order that such subject shall be specifically listed in  tie agenda of the plenary meeting to which the report  of the Cotamission is submitted".  Mr, Haguiwara pointed out that the above proposal  did not cover every case considered by the Executive  Board. Had the object of the amendment been to  prevent the repetition in plenary meeting of what had  already been discussed and decided in the Commis-  sions, the drafting committee could have put forward  a moré radical solution, but, under the Rules of Pro-  cedure, every delegation had the right to speak, and  to propose in plenary meeting that a Commission's  report be divided and discussed and voted on para-  graph by paragraph. The Committee had, however,  wished to provide for cases in which, at the end of a  segsion of the General Conference, speeches in  plenary meeting on questions which had been rejected  by the Commissions would hold up proceedings. - It  would, however, be impossible, legally speaking, to  lay down categorically that a question discussed in a  Commission could not then be raised in plenary  meeting.
(31) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America) was  in full agreement with the representative of Japan.  He was not completely satisfied with the proposed  amendment but he thought it was adequate as a first  step to expedite the debates of the plenaries. He  suggested the word "recommendation, instead of  "proposal" in the text which had just been read.
(32) That amendment was approved.
(33) Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) asked Mr. Haguiwara to explain exactly what the  proposed amendment meant,
(34) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) explained that several  cases might arise, At the beginning of a session, a  Commission might have to study a single question and  report on it immediately to the Conference, accom-  panying its report by a recommendation or a draft  resolution. In view of the provisions of the Rules of  Procedure, it would be difficult to ask that the report  should then be adopted by the plenary meeting without  discussion. On the other hand, at the end of the Con-  ference, the Commissions submitted reports dealing  COMMITTEE
898  VII-6  with à large mumber of subjects. Those reports  sometimes made no reference to certain questions  discussed and rejected at the meetings of the Commis-  sions, It was only questions of that kind, which cer-  tain delegations might wish to discuss anew in plenary  meeting, that would be affected by Rule T8A, and  particularly by the need for giving prior notice to the  President of the wish of the delegations concerned to  raise such questions in plenary meeting, Delegations  could also always ask for the division of the report  and start a new discussion on a particular item in it.  The solution proposed by the drafting committee was  not faultless, but that wns precisely because the  working party had sought to preserve the right to  speak and to ask for a separate vote. .  Mr, Haguiwara suggested that the Rapporteur's  report include his last remark, and mentioned that the  working perty recommended the adoption of Rule 78A  for a trial period,  In reply to a question from the Chairman, he added  that, in his opinion, the solution proposed was not  complete, in the sense that Rule 78A did away with the  possibility of repeating in plenary meeting a discussion  that had already taken place in a Commission for one  category of questions only.
(35) The draft of Rule 78A was adopted and the Com-  mittee decided to include Mr. Haguiwara's last re-  marks in its report.
(36) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) stated that, with the  adoption of the draft of Rule 78A, the consideration of  document 9C/ADM/12 was at an end,  ITEM 14.30F THE AGENDA: REPORT ON THE APPLICATION OF THE  RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR THE CALLING OF INTERNATIONAL  CONFERENCES OF STATES (continued) (document 9C/ ADM/ 14)
(37) The CHAIRMAN recalled that document 9C/ADM/14  had already been considered at a previous meeting of  the Committee, but that members had asked for an  opportunity of studying it in greater detail. Referring  to paragraph 19, he expressed the view that the Com-  mittee might accept the restrictive interpretation of  the expression "international conferences of States"  which emerged from the Director-General's conclusions.
(38) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) agreed that the Com-  mittee could accept the restrictive interpretation of  that expression and that there was no need to amend  the Rules.
(39) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) explained that the  Committee had not only to endorse the restrictive  interpretation of the term "international conferences  of States" but also to give its views on the general  conclusions set forth in the document, relating to:
(1) the restrictive interpretation of the expression  "intergovernmental conferences", which applied  golely to conferences attended by representatives of  States at the highest level and reporting the results of  their work to the States themselves; (2) the fact that  that definition of intergovernmental conferences  covered not only those which were world-wide but  also those of regional interest; (3) the fact that the  existing Rules of Procedure provided only for cases   VIII-7  in which intergovernmental conferences were called  by Uhesco itself and riot those called jointly by Unesco  and other arganinations (e.g. the Conference on  “neighbouring rights"; convened by Unesco, ILO and  the Berne Bureau); (4) observations concerning the  definition of non-governmental conferences, which  might bring together not only non- overnmental  organizations but also representatives of inter-  governmental organizations and certain persons  attending in an individual capacity.    LEGAL COMMITTEE
(40) Document 9C/ADM/ 14 was adopted,
(41) The CHAIRMAN informed the Committee that  the draft resolution submitted by Greece had been  modified by the Greek Government, and that the  General Committee of the Conference had decided that  the legal question referred to the Committee was no  longer applicable,  The meeting rose at 5.15 p.m.  SEVENTH MEETING
(1) The CHAIRMAN opened the meeting at 3.45 p.m.  As there was not a quorum, he suspended proceedings  for ten minutes, in conformity with the provisions of  Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference.  {The meeting was suspended at 3.50 p.m. and  resumed at 4 p.m, ) ’  FOURTH REPORT OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE  (document 9C/JUR/PROV/ 8)
(2) The CHAIRMAN submitted document 9C/JUR/  PROV/6 for approval,
(3) - The firat part of the report: "Item 14.1 of the  revised agenda: Draft amendments to the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference (document
9C/ADM/13)" was approved, Heo
(4) The second part of the report: "Item 14. 3 of the  revised agenda: Report on the application of the Rules  of Procedure for the calling of international con-  ferences of States (document 9C/ADM/14)" was  approved.
(5) The third part of the report, "Inclusion in the  final agenda of the General Conference of an item
700  proposed by the Government of Greece: measures to  be taken and recommendations to be made witha  view to ensuring that Member States maintain the 17  free functioning of education in the territories under  their administration" was approved. NE os
(6) The CHAIRMAN, after declaririg the fourth repoit  of the Legal Committee adopted said that, unless .  another Commission were to seek ita opinion on any-  specific question, the work of the Legal Committee ;:  had been concluded.  He thanked the members for their éo- operation and  observed that there was reason for satisfaction at the  unanimous agreement achieved on every one of the ;  items considered. :
(7) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America), on ;  behalf of his colleagues, thanked Mr. Matsui for his.  services as Chairman ot the Committee.
(8) Mr. JOUBERT (Laos) thanked the Legal Adviser,  on behalf of the Committee, for all the help he had  given by his advice.
(9) The CHAIRMAN added the Committee's thanks to  Mr, Lussier, the members of the Secretariat, the |  interpreters and the minute-writers.  The meeting rose at 4,45 p.m,