23 November 1956, at 10,30 PR m,  * Chairman: Mr. SAVAIN (Haiti).  ITEM 13.4 OF THE AGINDA : AMENDMENTS TO THE PERECTIVES  CONCERNING UNESCO'S RELATIONS WITH INTERNATIONAL NON-  GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (continued) (document DC/ ADM/ 19)  '  Section III - Subventions (continued) ~~ = °
(1) Mr,. BERKELEY (Oftiée’ of: the Diréctor-General)  referred to the question raised by thé United Kingdom  delegate at the prévicus meeting of the Commission  regarding the huriber of international non-gévern+ -  mental organizatiots,. currently receiving Unésco  subventions towards their administrative éxpenses, ’  which would né lôngér be eligible’ to receive those  subventions if the proposal of the United States delegate  to delete paragraphs (1) and (2) of Section II, C, II -  Administrative expenses - were adopted. The  Secretariat found that the information to answer that  question was riot available {ri New Delhi, so thatthe  matter would have to be referred to Paris, and it  would take séveral days at least to obtain à reply. He  could only add that the three catégories undér discus-  sion hed been proposed by the Director-General and  the Executive Board after careful consideration, based  on previous ‘expérience, and thaf it was felt they would  adequately cover any future situation, As had been  pointed out by the delegate of the United Kingdom,  they were more severe and restrictive than those in  the existing text.  LAINE à  words "auspices of Unesco, in paragraph (1),  however, was maintained,
(3) Mr: DEBEAUVAIS (France) emphasised that some  organizations whose ussfulness had been recognized .  by Unesco, and whose establishment it had encouraged,  might have a permanent deficit on their running -  expenses, He feared that a new system of rules that  was too rigid might endanger. the existence of organix-  ations whose activities were making a useful  contribution to Unesco's work. “
(4) ‘MF, VERONESE ‘(aiy) (hepréséätaisve: of {the  Executive Board) said that the question was similar  to that raised on the previous day in connexion with  thé deletion of the rulé specifying the proportion of  independent resources which ah organisation should  -have in order to be eligible for a subvention,  Whichever argument carried the day might, in both  cases, work in two opposite directions, An  organization might have special needs beciuse it was
614     in its formative period but, when it had passed that  stage, it could be argued that a subvention was  necessary to enable it to continue functioning success-  fully, It was for that reason that the Executive Board  had considered it preferable to fix no limit. Mr.  Veronese asked that the proposed text remain as it  stood, - A  { 8): Mr, SIMBARIAN: (United Stites of America) -  pointed out that paragraph 9 of thé original text :  provided that organizations should be assisted with  their administrative expenses "in their formative  stage", 'Hé believed that the deletion of that phrase  in the amended text made thé wording of paragraph
(1) inadequate, since it might a) pear that the simple  fact that an orghnisation had been established under  Unesco's auspicés would make it éligible for a  subvention td help cover its administrative expénsés  for the rest of its existence, His delegation's amend-  ment would have the effect of making those organiz-  ations eligible for such subventions in thelr formative  stage only, and logically, once they had passed that  stage and become active, fully-fledged Eodles, they  remained eligible under paragraph o as organisations  carrying out an activity which would otherwise have  to be assumed by Unesco,” Thus it would be clear that  organizations which hoped to go on receiving such  assistance once they had passéd the formative stage  would have to make a definite contribution to Unesco's  work.
(6) Mr. de HOOG (othé stands); deterring to TOR last  remarks of the delegate of thé United. States of America,  drew attention to the second paragraph o item I, ‘which  stated that "these subventions shall only be granted’  ‘after very caréful consideration": ’ # therefore appeare(  ‘that organisations included in oné of the three categories  itated would not automatically receive a subvention for  that reason alone; but might possibly be ‘able to oblsin  one,  He supporied the request made i the Vice-  Chairman of the Executive Board.
(7) Mr. BERKELEY (Office of the Direct -Gensis)  pointed out that the term format stage” was  difficult to définé in’ terims of PI Li bimé, some |  organizatio mé requiring pn op to ‘éapablish Mémoires  than ot ts. Furermore, gs type of provisions ”  under discastion “werd difficult ‘to ie) ini any right  marnnér,’ and the ‘insertion of additional clauses” iL  gave rise to further complicate pos organisation,  for instance,’ which ‘censéd to le under ‘pera-  graph (1) might, as pointed out > ‘delegate of the  Ynited States of America, become eligible | undèr  paragraph (3), but, in any case, the Secretariat could  make eligible under paragraph 2) by, concluding «  formal agreement with it, The whole situation was      ADMINISTRATIVE. COMMISSION  therefore somewhat artificial, ‘and he thought there  wes litte to be gained by adopting the proposal of the  United States delegate, although the Secretariat would  not raise sy further objection thereto,
(8) The CHAIRMAN put the amendment submitted by  the delegate of the United States of America to the  vote.
(9) The amendment. ‘was rejected by 16 votes to 6,  with 17 sbstentions. À  i ‘ . Sa gE
(10) Mr. - VERONESE- (Italy) (Representative of the  Executive Board); replying to à request from Mr.  SIMSARIAN (United States of America) for an  explanation of the term ‘trends of ideas" in para-  graph E, 4(b) on page 14 of document 9C/ADM/19,  stated that, while the wording was not very clear, it  expressed a definite idea of the Executive Board.  International non-governmental organizations could  be divided into two main categories. The first  included organizations in the fields of education,  science or culture, specializing in work on a -  particular subject, ‘The second group covered organiz-  ations that could be said to represent "the expresaion  of public opinion", in the sense that they were of an  ideological, denominational, or even political nature.  Both typàs of organizations were useful and their co-  cperation was desirablé, If at first sight two -  organizations appeared to be working in the same field,  the fact that each belonged to a different category  reduced the risk of overlapping and the latter con-  sideration loat some weight,  gt
(11) Mr, SIMSARIAN- (United States of ‘America)  thanked the répresentative of the Executivé Board for  his helpful explanation, but hoped that the phrase °  "trends ‘of ideas’ would be interpreted so as to  encourage experimentation in certain fields of  edutatior, science and culture; or in terms of  - techiniques rather than Li térms of political outlook,  Returning to part C of Section III” he noted that the  provision regarding the payment’ of half of cértain  expenses by the’ rion-governmental’ organization con-  ‘cerned had béèn deleted from paragraph 3 (page 9  “English text) and ‘paragraphs’ l'and 2(a) (page 10).  His ‘delegation did not’ object té that ‘amendment, but  hoped the Diréctor-General and’ the Exé cutive Board  would realize the need for even greater care in the  “allocation of subventions, and for ensuring toat the  ‘organization concerned had, in fact, made every  _ eftort to obtain the necessary funds from other  ‘ sources.  ;
(12) Mr, VERONESE £ (ay) (Heprèsentativé ot the  Executive*Board} thought that the introduction to  document 9C/ADM/19’ afiswered the United States  delegate's question to soitié extént, He explained that  the Executive Board had aimed at the adoption of  à new policy, which consisted in réplacing à body of  strict rules by general directives which would allow,  “more scope ‘than 1a the past for thorough and detailed  ‘ examination of each patticular case by the Director-  General, ‘A tigld administration would replace a  rigid system of régulations.  He dde à that that policy presiipposed three  conditions: (1) the Director-General should have
615     y-17  sufficient staff. and equipment at his disposal to be 1.  able to carry out the task; (2) the Executive Board :  itself should be able to depend on à body dealing - -  specially with the relations betweën Uneaco and the  international non-governmental o ; while  its External Relations Commission might ‘probably |  undertake that function, : Mr, Veronese understood  that the Belgian National Commission had submitted  a proposal on the point; (3) the Conference of Non-  Governmental Organisations had passed a recom-  mendation that à representative of the Executive  Board should attend ité meetings in order to gain an  idea of the organization's activities. Those three  conditions had not yét been fulfilled, but Mr. Veronese  emphasized that, if any measures were to be intro-  duced, it was for the Administrative Commission and  the General Conference to take the decisions, and not  the Executive Board.
(13) Reterring to the” existing paragraph 5 (new  paragraph 6) in Part E of Section I (page 14), Mr,  ARTHUR (United Kingdom) asked the representative  of the Executive Board if the Board had often been  called upon to suthorize such transfers within the  budgets of non-governmental organizations, and if  it had ever refused that authorization, He also  asked in what circumstances and how often the’  Director-General was required to take the emergency  decision provided for, It seemed to him that the  procedure whereby non-governmental organizations  had to await the authorization of the Executive Board  before being able to proceed with a change in their  programme was neither tèéessary nor désirable. It  should be remembered that non-governmental”  organizations receiving a Unesco subsidy were  required to submit their proposed programme and ’  budget to Unesco at a véry €arly daté, and that they  often found it impossible, when the time came, to  implement certain plans made so far in advance,  In such cases, they ‘obviously wished to proceed as  quickly as possible with alternative plans, and his  delegation thought that the Director-General should be  given power to authorize ‘such changes,’ at least  within certain financial Limits,
(14) Mr, VERONESE (italy) (Representative 1 the  Executive Board) had the impression that the Inter-  national Council of Scientifié Unions, the World  Organization {oF Early Childhood Éducation and the’  International Council for Philosophy and Humanistic  Studies had had to undertake new activities which had  compelled them to ask for changes to be permitted in  the purpose anid use of their subventions. While he  could not give exact, details of the ¢ s aeked for,  the’ ‘orgaivations concérned had had théir requirements  mét in every ‘case, either with the prior agreement of  the Board or by the Board's ‘ratification of the Director-  General's décisions. ;
(15) Mr. BERKÉLEY (Otrice i fe Dirg<ioF General  added that the Director -Genera was ‘often called tipon  to take the emergency decision referred to for  instaiice, if ah'orgahization fourid if necessary to,  cancel or Postpone + a éonterencé or symposium it had  planned to hold at a given period in à distant part of  the world. As’ moet of thosé organizations wère .  working on very limited budgets, the time factor was   V-17  often important; and théy would réquiré immediate  authorization to proceed with other work, The  Director-General, nevertheless, preferred to obtain  the subsequent assent of the Executive Board to those  Emergency changes.
(16) Mr: ARTHUR (United Kingdom) sald he was --  satisfied by the replies given and would not ask the  Commission to reconsider the question of principle  involved, He pointed out, however; that the words "in  emergencies’ hid a very strong implication in English  and proposed that they be replacéd by "in exceptional  circumstances”, That amendment would, he felt,  give the Director-General a little more latitude in  granting the requests made to him,
(17) That proposal Was seconded by the delegate of  Australia,
(18) Mr, AHMED (Pakistan) felt there was some  justification for the retention of the words "in  emergencies" , as it was a basic principle that Unesco  funds should rot be used for purposes other than those  for which they had been allocated, and exceptions to  that rule should be kept to a minimum.
(19) Upon a vote being taken, the amendment of the  United Kingdom delegate was adopted by 25 votes to
1, with 7 abstentions,
(20) Referring to the explanatory note following part A  of Section III, Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of  America) pointed out that the matter of the distinction  between subventions and contracts was of the greatest  importance, He was prepared to accept the new  definition of those terms, which was an improvement  on the old, but thought that it was not always clear,  whether a specific task to carried out by an outside  organization could not be accomplished better under a  contract than by à subvention, He suggasted that the  Director-General be asked to examine the problem  and report to the ] Executive Board regarding any  matters dealt with under subventions in ‘the 1957-1958  programme which could He better handled by contractual  ar rangements in the 1959- 1960 programme. The  Executive Board could then undertake a thorough  study of the question and make what recommendations  it saw fit to the tenth session of the General Confer-  ence concerning the bétter use of contractual  procedure. .
(21). Mr. VERONESE (It aly) (Representative g “of the  Executive Board) éxplained that a subvention was à  form of Unesco assisfance | to an internationa] non-  governmental organization i and therefore a unilateral  act, while a’ contract implied the performance da.  service to Unesco by, ihe organization benefiting. |  therefrom, If it was the wish of the United States  delegate that the Executive Board attempt to find a  more suitable definition of the ‘two terms, the Board  was prepared | to study thé’ question, The current .  contracts and aubvehtions could not be reviéwed until  the Conference had adopte the appropriate detihitions,  While the Board was prepared to. undertake that  task as well, ‘should’ the! Conference consider it  necéssary, it would’ probably be advisable, in  that event, to strengthen the Secretariat and
616  review the  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMIBBION  Executive Board's methods of work,
(22) Me: SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  emphasized that he did not want to reopen the  question of the definition of subventions and con-  tracts; but merely suggested that, 1h the light of  the revised definition presented ir Section III À ‘  of the document under discussion, the Executive  Board should study the possibility of making better  use of contractual procedure in implementing the  programme for, 1959-1960, He would propose a  draft resolution on the following lines; _ -  "The General Conference requests the Director-  General to report to the Executive Board on the  possibilities of changing present subventions, or  parts of subventions, to contracts for the period
1959-1960, and requests the Executive Board to  subrnit-recommendations on this subject to the tenth  session of the General Conference,"
(23) Mr. de HOOG (Netherlands) pointed ‘out that the  Commission was examining document 8C/ADM/19,  and expressed the view that the motion submitted by  the United States delegate was outside the scope of  that discussion.
(24) The CHAIRMAN said that the proposal could be  considered only as a recommendation, as the para-  graphs referred to by the United States delegate had  already been approved by the Commission, He added  that the Secretariat would take note of it,
(25) Mr, de HOOG (Netherlands) explained that that  was not the object of his remarks, If he had under-  stood the proposal aright, the delegate of the United  States of America wanted the Director-General to  examine the possibility of changing certain subventions  into contracts, a question which was outside the scope  of document ac/ADM/ 19,
(26) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America) sald  his understanding was that the Commission was still  considering the whole of Section III ‘of document
9C/ADM/19, in which the revised definitions to which ‘  he had referred appeared, However, he would agree  that his proposal might be. considered more  appropriately at the. end of the discussion, when the  Commission had completed its review of the Directives.  At the request of the Chairman, he agreed to  submit his draft resolution in writing to the  Secretariat,
(27) There being no further discussion, the CHAIRMAN  put the draft amendments proposed in parts C, D and  E of Section III of the document to the vote.
(28) Those amendments, as further amended during the  debate, were adopted unanimously,  Section IV; Review of relationships
(29) Mr. BERKELEY (Office ot the Director-General)  presented the amendments proposed with respect to  the last section of the document, Commenting that  the system used throughout the document fo): enume-  rating the various Sections, sub- sections, items, para-  graphs, sub-paragraphs, etc. , was extremely complicated   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION V=17  and difficult to follow, he askéd if the’ Commission’  would have any objéction to the Secretariat's simplifyi  that system: aftér the Diréctives had been adopted in  their final form,
(30) Replying to Mi, dé HOOG- (Nethriands), Mr;  BERKELEY (Office of the Director-General)'  explained that the expression’ "change of stetus'!:  included in the explanatory footnote relating to para-  graph 3 (last page of the document) could référ to only  one change,’ that of the withdrawal of such status, For  that reason, the Director-General had preferred so  to specity’ in the text of the amendment he had proposed.
(31) Referring also to the second ‘paragraph’ of the.  proposed addition to paragraph 3, Mr. SIMSARIAN  (United States of America) proposed that the words  the competent body" be réplaced by "a committee  established as necessary fôr this purpose. It was  the practice in thé United Nations to establish a special  committee for such hearings, as it was not practical  to hold them before a large body.
(32) Mr. BERKELEY (Office of the Director-General)  pointed out that the phrase "competent body"! had been  chosen very carefully by the Director-General so as  to allow for any arrangement the General Conference  desired to make, including the establishment of a  special committee, He pointed out that non-govern-  mental organizations having consultative status with  Unesco were e’iiitled, under Rule 68 of the Rules of  Procedure of the Conference, to "make statements  on matters within their respective competence in  committees, commissions, or subsidiary bodies.  with the consent of the presiding officer". Any such  organization, therefore, when notified that its  consultative status was to be withdrawn, would  obviously avail itself of that right to request permis-  sion to speak in any committee or commission in which  the matter was raised, :
(33) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States. of America) with-  drew his proposal in the light of that explanation,  .and on the understanding that the words "competent  body" could be interpreted to mean a body other than  the full Commission.
(34) Mr, SILLER (Mexico) urged that the Spanish text  of the second paragraph which it was proposed to add  to paragraph 3 of Section IV - Review of Relationships -  be redrafted, since he considered it badly worded as  it stood, .
(35) The CHAIRMAN said that the Secretariat would  see to the revision of the Spanish text.  He put Section IV of document 9C/ADM/19 to the  vote.
(30) It was adopted unanimously.
(37) Referring to the provisions ¢ of pari c of ‘Section  MI of document 6C/ADM/19 - Purposes for which  subventions may be granted - Mrs. BAIG (Inter-  national Council of Women) drew attention to the  widespread use being made of non-gôvernmental  organizations and educational and cultural institutions  by certain propagandist bodies, Whilst it might not be
617     within the power of Uneico to arret thé abtivition” ‘-  ot sich bodies; if should not be:impoasible for ht lo’  put on reéord the namés of digarizations: hich -  worked fôr political ends’ through ciltufal aid ”  educational institutions iii various paris of the world,  Secondly, the ‘General Conférence could refuse to.  - grant a subvention to ary. educational; ‘“’ééiéntific'or *-  cultural body that had Feceived, or. proposed to :  receive, funds from any politicai ôr. propagandist  source, The organizations she had referred to were  known and it was known how they worked, They’  offered scholarships, travel grants,” and hinds for -  administration to non-governinental organizations’  which, in Asia especially, usiially had but meagre.’  resources of their own and were tempted to accept  such generous offers. ’ Shé appealed to the Commis-  sion to consider the problem she had raised, and to :  list those political organizations which worked through  educational and cultural bodies, so that clear guidance  would be given in the matter of granting subventions  in all parts of the world, .  ITEM 19.1 OF THE AGENDA : QUADRENNIAL REVIEW OF THE  LAST OF INTERNATIONAL NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS  APPROVED FOR CONSULTATIVE ARRANGEMENTS WITH UNESCO  (continued) (osument 9C/ ADM/ 15)
(38) Mr, BERKELEY. tottice. of the Director-General)  presented the document, which was submitted in .  accordance with the normal procedure for review of  that question by the General Conference every four  years, ,In that particular instance, however, the.  Executive, Board had submitted a resolution recom-  mending that the General Conference instruct the  Director-General, in co-operation with the Executive  Board: i  (a) to conduct, a review of. the list of. nop- -govern-  mental organizations approved ‘for consultative status  and an evaluation of their relations y with the Organiza-  tion upon the basis of the Directives to be adopted by  the General Conference at its ninth session;  (b) .to submit this report | to the General! Conter-  ence at ifs tenth ‘session (1958), " M :  In the light of that recommendation, - “the. Commis-  sion might prefer to postpone its quadrennial review  to the tenth session, when it would be in possession  of the report on the more detailed evaluation carried  out by the Director-General and the Execu'!ve Board,  However, that was a matter for decision by the  Commission. . ,
38] Mr, {EnonEs ‘ad. optoieiiR of the,  Executive Board) ‘explained the reasons leading to  the Board's decision to make the recommendation,  that had fiat been read ut, In the first place, the ,  Board had four thaf the review’ of the JEUN  clearly, not be ‘undertaken | before the r new irectives  had been finaily established,’ Moreover, the +  Secretariat had neither sufficient staff nor the necés-  sary equipment to undertake a critical study and  evaluation of the ‘relations of the non-governmental  organisations ‘with Unescôé, Mr, Voronons siressed,”  in thal connexion, that thé Executive Bond was not  required to submit formal proposals for remedying  the situation. .  He reminded the Board that, at a prévious mesling,  par   V-17  the delegate of India had proposed that the review of  the list of non-governmental organizations be placed  in the bands of a committee of experts, While the  Board bad not. yet considered a solution of that kind,  it was prepared to consider it if the Conference so  desired, The French delegation had also submitted a  draft resolution concerning the methods to be adopted  for evaluating the relations of the organizations with  Unesco, and Mr. Veronese wondered whether it might  not be well to examine that proposal forthwith,
(40) The CHAIRMAN understood that the French  delegution's draft resolution had been referred to the  Programme Commission.
(41) Mrs.‘ PARONETTO VALIER taly) thought that  the critical review: and evaluation recommended by  the Executive Board met an obylous need, On the one  hand, document 9C/ADM/15 was voluminous and, while  it presented an objective picture of the situation, it.  gave the impression that the compiler had deliberately  refrained from forming an ovérall judgement. On the  other hand, document 9C/ADM/17 contained a list of  organizations seeking consultative arrangements, and  that list should be examined in the. light of experience.  She drew attention to the provision that Unesco might  defer the admission of some organizations to  consultative arrangements in order to encourage the  formation of federated côuriéils or co-ordinating bodies  (document 8C/ADM/ 18, Section IL; B, 2{d}). Document
9C/ADM/15 seemed to indicate that that provision had  not been observed in the past. The whole question  therefore deserved serious study and, in that  connexion, Mrs. Parcrietio Valier referred to the  statements made by Mr. Veroiiese with regard to the  means it would be necessary to place at the disposal  of the Executive Board and the Secretariat in order  for such an examination to be possible,
(42) Mr, BOURGEOIS {Switzerland) moved that the  Executive Board's recommendation be adopted.
(43) His proposal was seconded by the delegates of  the Federal Republic of Germany, Spain, France and  the Netherlands, :
(44) It was adopted unanimously.  ITEM 15.3 OF THE AGENDA: CONSIDERATION (F THE  EXECUTIVE BOARD'S PROPOSALS CONCERNING THE ADMESSION  OF INTERNATIONAL NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS TO  CONSUL TATIVÉ ARRANGEMENTS (document 6C/ADM/17 and Addende)
(45) Mr, BERKELEY {office of the Director-General)  introduced the document, expleining that, Instead of  its normal proposals, the Executive Board had adopted  a resolution which he would ask the representative of  the Board to present,
(46) Mr, VERONESE (Italy) (Representative of the  Executive Board) read out a recommendation of the  Executive Board relating to document 9C/ADM/17  and Addenda;  "The Executive Board,  Having due regard to the provisions of Section II,  paragraph B, 1, of the Directives concerning
618  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  relations with international non-governmental -  organizations, Cer  Considering however that it has not sutficiont time  at the present session to discuss each of the 34 .  applications for admission to consultative arrange-  ments: contained in document sc/ADM/ 17 and  Addendurn, .  Expresses the hope tha in the future 2 will Have  a possibility of studying thoroughly applications from  non-governmental organizations for admission to con-  sultative arrangements with Unesco, and  Resolves to forward documents 9C/ADM/17 and -  Addendum to the Administrative Commission, without  making any recommendation regarding particular  organizations,  He explained that the above recommendation should  not be interpreted as indicating passivity or the wish  to avoid a long aad difficult debate, The Executive  Board had had to deal with a large number of tasks .  which it had not been able to complete in the time at  its disposal, While some of its members wanted a  general line of policy laid down for dealing with the.  problems raised in documents 9C/ADM/ 17 and 9C/  ADM/17 Addendum, the debate had been inconclusive  and the Board had decided simply to refer the question  to the Administrative Commission rather than to  formulate hasty conclusions.
(47) Mr, BERKELEY (Office of the Director-General)  pointed out that the document had, in fact, been  transmitted to the Commission by the Executive Board  as requited by the Constitution, so that the Commis-  sion was in a position to consider the applications for  admission to consultative status if it so desired, On  the other hand, the Commission might prefer to  postpone its consideration of those applicativus ca ths  grounds that it had no specific recommendations  thereon from the Executive Board.
(48) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Span) could seè no  objection to discussing ‘the document even. though  there was no report from the Executive Board, as  the item had been consideréd by almost all  governments, ’ ‘Hé thought that almost all the organita-  tions would bé admitted without discussion and that,  in the event of difficulties arising with regard to the  admission of any one of them, the examination of its  application could be ‘postponed,
(48) Mrs, AMARAL SAUER: (Brazil) agreed with the  Spanish delegate that documents 90C/ADM/17 and  Addendum should be examined by the Administrative  Commission, nearly all of whose members had  received precise instructions from their governments  with regard to the problems discussed therein,
(50) Mr, de HOOG (Netherlands) agreed that it would  be difficult for the Commission to refuse to examine  the documents concerned,’ but wondered whether,  under the terms of the Rules of Procedure, it could  take any décisions without having received the advice  of the Executive Board.
(51) Mr. ' VERONESE (italy) (Representative of  the Executive Board) said that the recent  amendments made to the Rules authorized it to  do so.   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION
(82) Mr, FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) stréssed that there  was nothing ‘either in the Unesco’ Constitution or in the  Rules of Procèduré to prevent the Commission from  examining the document, ior was there anything to  prevent the Executive Board fron submitting it with-  out expressing as opinion on the decisions to be taken.
(53) Mr," AHMED (Bakistan) agreed that the Commis-  sion wis at ty té‘éonsider the applications if”,  #0 desired, but thoiight it would be preferable to sve  the advice of the Executive Board theréon, He the *-  fore proposed that the matter be reférred back to ti.  Executive Board, and that consideration by the  Administrative’ Commission be postponed pending  receipt of the advice of that body.
(54) Mr. VERONESE (Italy) (Representative of the  Executive Board) said that, if the Commission  fatutsd on having the advice of the Executive Board,  the latter would try to meet its wishes. Asa  compromise solution, he proposed that the Commis-  "sion decide on cases which raised no special problems  and consult the Board on difficult cases,
(55) Mr, AHMED (Paidotany tel it ight not be easy  to determine which applications could be accepted  without difficulty until somie time had already been  wasted in discussion. For that reason, he maintained  that all the applications submitted should be referred  back to the Executive Board for advice,
(56) Mr, de 'HOOG Netherlands) thanked the Vice-  Chairman of the Executive Board for proposing a  compromise solution. He pointed out that the objection  he had raised had been a puroly legal ont and said  that, if there were no difficulties in that respect, his  view was that the Commission should examine all the  documents,
(57) Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Soélalist Republics)  thought it would be desirable to have the views of the  Executive Board but that, since the Board had not  been able to issue recommendations, the Commission  might well examine the documents in question itself,    V-10  If the Commission were nevertheless, as proposed by  the delegate of Pakistan, to'ask the Board for its  views, it might simply find itself, later, back again  in the samé position; in which case the net result  would be to delay the Conimission's study of the  documents before it, The delegate of the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics thought the Commission  should proceed to study the substance of the documents  immediately. |
(58) Mr, Ngajen-QUANG-FRINH (Viet Nam) supported  the Pakistan delégate's proposal, He urged the -  Commission to request the Executive Board to assist  it in'its task, even if night meetings had to be held,  He felt that no decision could be taken without expert  advice and thought that the Board was a committee of  experts with greater competence in the matter than  the Administrative Commission.
(59) ME. BERKELEY (orriée: of the Director-General)  did not believe there was any legal problem and  thought the Commission was free to take any decision  it considered wise, The Executive Board had made  what amounted fo'a negative recommendation, {.e. -  that it had no recommendation to make in the matter.  He felt obliged to draw attention to a resolution  of the eighth session, whereby a decision on six  applicdtions submitted to that session had been  adjourned to the ninth session. A décision on those  six applications at least should accordingly be  taken at the current session,
(60) The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to  decide, by voting, whether it would itself examine  documents 9C/ADM/17 and Addendum or whether it  would refer them back to the Executive Board for  advice, .
(61) It was decided by 29 votés to 2, with 7 abstentions,  that the Administrative Commission would itsel?  examine the documents concerned,  The meeting rose at 1 p.m,  EIGHTEENTH MEETING
23 November 1956, at 3 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. SAVAIN (Haiti)  APPLICATIONS BY INTERNATIONAL NON-GOVERNMENTAL  ORGANIZATIONS FOR ADMBASION TO CONSULTATIVE  ARRANGEMENTS (document 9C/ADM/17 and Addenda)
(1) The CHAMMAN ‘asked the Commission to decide  on the applications Appearing in the various appendices  ‘to document 9C/ADM
619  Appendix 1 - Académie internationale de la céramique
(2) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) supportéd the  application of the above organization.
(3) Mr. STAHL (Sweden) said that, as hé had been  in favour of including all the organizations making