PROGRAMME COMMISSION  concrete values that merited world-wide appreciation  and understanding.  Turning to the actual implementation of the project,  Mr. Panikkar felt that a distinction between the  following three plancs of activity would do much to  put the project into its right perspective: (1) the  sphere of creative action, or pure reaearch work,  which might be called the academic level; (2) the  university level, at which belonged the translation of  great works, the revision of textbooks, etc; and (3)  the field of popular education and of mass communica-  tion, with all the means of modern techniques. Acti-  vities should be divided in programme resolutions  according to the level to which they belonged, an  overall balance being maintained between the levels  he had outlined. In addition, a balance should be  maintained between those three levels and all the  main cultural values of the world, Finally,  Mr, Panikkar pointed out that the West represented  neither technique nor science alone, nor was its  culture identifiable with any one period of history.  To take account of the striking variety of ways of life    IV-26  and cultures present in both East and West, it should  not be too difficult to prepare a list of the perennial  values of Eastern and of Western culture which should  be preserved and fostered in a new world culture,
(58) The CHAIRMAN thanked the representative of  Pax Romana for his statement, which had been  received with great interest by all members, He  stated that discussion of the programme of the Dep-  artment of Education would continue at the next  morning meeting of the Commission,
(50) Mr. de HOOG (Netherlands) thought that, when  the Commission came to examine the proposal for  transfer of funds from the Department of Cultural  Activities to the Department of Education, the dele-  gates attending the meeting should include equal  numbers of specialists in education and specialists  in cultural activities. He wished to draw the  Commission's attention to that point.  The meeting rose at 5,45 p.m.  TWENTY - SIXTE MEETING
28 November 1956, at 6,30 p.m.  Chairman; Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)  ITEM 9.4 OF THE AGENDA : CULTURAL ACTIVITIES (continued)  MAJOR PROJECT ON MUTUAL APPRECIATION OF EASTERN AND  WESTERN CULTURAL VALUES (continued) (documents 9C/5,  Corrigendum 1, 9C/PRA/26, 9C/PRG/PROV/2 and 80/DR/106)  {1) In reply to the CHAIRMAN, Mr. THOMAS  (Assistant Director-General) said that document
9C/PRG/PROV/2 took account of the suggestions of  theWorking Party on Major Projects and of the ob-  servations made by various delegations the previous  day during the discussions in the Programme Com-  mission, The revised text differed in the following  respects from the original téxt of draft resolution
4,91 contained in document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1,  Chapter 4A, paragraph 10: in section II, the General  Conference authorized the Executive Board to make  the budgetary arrangements for the project at its first  session in 1957, and invited the Director-General to  continue the preparation of work plans without a break.  Section III gave the Executive Board directives for the  implementation of the project: paragraph A provided,  at the suggestion of the Japanese delegation, for  increased aid to Member States under the Partici-  pation programme, .  In short, the résolution commissioned the Executive  Board to initiate Major Project 4A; there was as yet  no budget for the execution of the work but, as the  Executive Board could not present detailed estimates
453  for a few months, it would be sufficient for the moment  for the Programme Commission to take a decision on  the activities proposed in documents 8C/5 Corrigendum
1 and Corrigendum 4, The Secretariat would give  delegates approximate estimates for the various items  of the existing work plan,
(2) The CHAIRMAN knew that the Commission was  aware that the major project on mutual appreciation  of Eastern and Western cultural values was in a less  finished state than the other major projects, becayse  it had béen elaboratéd only after the summer session  of the Executive Board, Moreover, the voting of a  higher budget end the postponing of the deadline for  the submission of draft resolutions had made it diffi-  cult for the Secretariat to work out definite plans.  The final shaping of the programme would, however,  be the responsibility of the Advisory Committeé which  it was proposed to establish (document 8C/PRG/PROV/2,  page 2), so that thé Commission required only to hold  a general discussion on the project and then take a  vote on the Director-General's revised text of  resolution 4, 91, together with the budget estimates,
(3) Mr. REALE (Italy) said that the italian delegation,  as at the Aix-en-Provence Conference, unreservedly  supported all the major projects, in particular the  one under discussion, which it thought the best calcu-  lated of all to foster international undérstanding. Thé   v-26  major projects represented a turning point in the  history of Unesco and many people thought the  Organisation would stand or fall by their results,  Italy had always had close links with the Orient,  and was still continuing, through many institutions,  to convey knowledge of the civilizations of Asia to  the pecplis of the Occident. Haly would be glad to  place all its resources at Unesco's disposal,  It would, however, be wrong to conceal the diffi-  culties of so comprehensive à project, and there was  a lot of prejudice to overcome, That was perhaps  yet another reason for giving enthusiastic support to  a drive to increase mutual appreciation of cultural  values throughout the world,
(4) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) said that his country  also was keenly interested in that major project.  Even before the scheme was evolved, Belgium had  organized a round table discussion in Brussels on the  same theme, The Belgian delegation proposed the  adoption of the text prepared by the Secretariat, which  authorizéd the proposed Advisory Committee to work  out details for the execution of the project. The best  procédure, Mr, Florkin thought, would be not to  allocate the appropriations and supplementary funds  for the project, but to leave them at the disposal of  the Advisory Committee to be set up by the Executive  Board.
(5) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) said that Lebanon had  already declared its interest in the project and stated  some of its reasons in draft resolution 9C/DR/47 on  the establishment of an international centre. His  country was also prepared to place at Unesco's  disposal ali its institutions and personnel; and to  share the experience it had acquired in that field  thanks to the fact that Lebanon itself represented a  synthesis of different civilizations.  Mr, Ammoun supported the revised text in docu-  ment 9C/PRG/PROV/2 with two reservations: in the  second paragraph of section I, he proposed adding, in  the second line, the words"... and to this end in  particular ..." since the list given was not exhaustive  and provision should also be made for exhibitions. In  the next paragraph, he saw no purpose in the words  "go participating".
(6) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) said that document
8C/PRG/PROV/2, which the French delegation found  completely satisfactory, constituted as it were, the  “outline law" of the major project. He would like an  assurance that the Director-General would always act  in complete agreement with the Advisory Committee.  The French delegation did not think the whole of the
1957-1958 period should be spent on preparatory work.  A number of Member Statçs had already made a start,  and the French National Commission, for example,  had already made various plans for fostering better  mutual knowledge bstween Orient and Occident. It  was important that all such activities should be, if not  actually co-ordinated, at least fitted into a well  balanced general programme. .  Mr. François drew the Director-General's  attention to the fact that the aims of the major project  had already been attained in certein countries such as -  Lebanon, where a synthesis of features from East and  West had long ago been achieved. Other countries in  PROGRAMME
454  COMMISSION  Asia which had only recently gained their independ-  ence - such as Viet-Nam - had decided to incorporate  in their own purely Eastern national culture certain  important elements of Western civilization, All those  examples would be interesting to study, as would also  the case of Burma or India, à meeting-ground of  different civilizations from very early times.
(7) Mr, FIKRY (Egypt) had already announced that  his country fully supported Major Project 4A and was  determined to co-operate to the maximum in  it into effect. He wanted to know whether the statutes  of the Advisory Committee were to be laid down by  the Executive Board immediately or at its first session  in 1957,
(8) Mr. HOPE (United States of America) seconded  the remarks of the delegate of Belgium, but wished to  propose two or three amendments to the resolution In  document 9C/PRG/PROV/2; At the end of the fivst  line of section I, he moved the addition of the following  words "based upon the criteria adopted by the General  Conference and entitled ,.. etc." Similarly, at the  end of the fourth line of section II, A, after "deter-  mined by the Executive Board", the following words  should be inserted: "on the basis of the criteria  adopted by the General Conference",  Lastly, Mr. Hope thought that the word "Invites",  used on three occasions in section II, was somewhat  weak and should be replaced by "Authorizes",
(8) Mr, JORDANA DE POZAS (Spain) reaffirmed his  country's support of the major project, which he had  already commended at the beginning of the debate. He  also approved the report of the Working Party, and  endorsed its conclusions, Nevertheless, he wished to  make a few suggestions for improving the project.  One concerned the title, on which the speaker fully  agreed with the comments made at the previous  meeting by Mr, Panikkar, observer for Pax Romana,  It would be better to speak of “understanding rather  than "appreciation and the title of the project should  mare logically be: "Mutual understanding of Eastern  and Western universal cultural values", He thought  the insertion of the word "universal" would improve  the title. ; ; Lo  Secquidly, the Spanish delegation agreed with what  the French representative had just said with regard  to interpreting the concept of the "Orient" in the  widest sense. Some countries, like Spain, had à  mixed Fastern and Western culture, 1t should hot be  supposéd that the project concerned only the Far East  or the Asian region where the Conference was béing  held: it should also cover the Arab and Hebrew  civilisations, which had left traces in Spain to the  present day, Twenty per cent of the words in the  Spanish language were of Arabic origin, If the project  were interpreted in that sense, Spain would be able tu  give useful help in its implementation through her  scholars and works of reference.
(10) Mrs. MARTINS (Brazil) said that her country  * supported the East-West major project. Brazil  hoped to be able to contribute to Uneaco's work for  better mutual appreciation between East and West in  the field of the arts, philosophy, literature and science.  Her delegation supported the Belgian proposal that the   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  tion of detailed work plans and the allocation  of the funds available be left to the Advisory  Committee, ,
(11) Mr, CHELYSHEV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Repiblics) said that his country warmly welcomed the  major project, which was extremely important for the  achievement of Unesco's main aims. It was very  opportune that the project should be discussed at the  current session of the Conference in view of the  profowid changes which were taking place iz various  countries, The world was witnessing the growth of  national cultures in many countries which had only  just attained their independence, ind the proposed  project would enablé them to know one another better  and prevent the development of fresh prejudices.  The Soviet delegation hoped the preparatory period  would not last two years. Reflection was, of course,  essential, but Unesco could start certain activities  immediately, on the basis of the practical experience  it had acquired in international contacts. The Union  of Soviet Socialist Republics and many. other countries  had signed cultural co-operation agreements with  many Eastern and Western States. Those documents  provided a basis to work on.  Mr. Chelyshev said that most of the draft resolu-  tions or amendments concerning the major project  were based on the Secretariat's text and constituted  useful additions thereto; the Soviet delegation  intended to support them,  The Soviet delegation deeply regretted that the  People's Republic of China could not take part in  carrying out the major project. A study of the  economic and cultural achievements of that Republic  was indispensable for a true appreciation of the  modern civilization of that vast section of mankind,  In conclusion, Mr, Chelyshev stated that Soviet  experts and scholars were very anxious to assist  Unesco in that sphere,
(12) Mrs. WADIA (India) recalled that her delegation  had already expressed deep appreciation of the major  project. It also approved of the documents before the  Commission. She wished, however, to raise one point:  in paragraph 20 on page 7 of document 9C/PRG/26, it  was stated that the Working Party on Major Projects  had agreed that the number of members of the proposed  Advisory Committee should be kept small, proposals  varying from a minimum of 10 to a maximum of 20 or
25 members. In the interests of economy, the Indian  delegation wondered whether it would not be wiser to  have a smaller body; moreover, if it met concurrently  with the General Conference and was otherwise simply  consulted by correspondence, considerable savings on  travel costs could be effected. Apart from that one  point, the Indian delegation entirely approved of the  revised text of resolution 4.91.
(13) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  thought the first of Mr. Ammoun's amendments  excellent, the second acceptable. The term "so  participating" , though perhaps not very elegant, was  used by the Secretariat to indicate financial partici-  pation by Member States.  Replying to Mr. Hope, Mr. Thomas said that the  major project was in line with the recommendations  of the Working Party. The statutes of the Advisory
455     Iv-26  Committee had not yet been laid down, but they would  be based on the principles proclaimed by the Working  Party. As to the strength of that Coinmities; the  number of members would be fixed either by the  Conference or by the Executive Board when spproving  the statutes, The Secretariat thought (cf, the budget  estimates contained in document 9C/5 Corrigendum
4) that it should be about fifteen strong,  The Indian delegate had asked about the meetings of  the Advisory Committee; the Secretariat thought it  should meet once à year, in the East and the West  alternately, 80 as to keép a check on the progress of  the project otherwise than by correspondence.  With regard to substituting the word "authorizes"  for the word "invites" in the text of the resalution,  Mr, Thomas told the United States delegate that it  was merely a question of legal terminology.  In conclusion, Mr, Thomas himself proposed à  drafting amendment to paragraph IIIA of document
9C/PRG/PROV/2: “enable Unesco to participate at  their request in the activities undertaken by the  Member States".
(14) As Rapporteur of the Working Party, Mr. HOPE  (United States of America) explained to the delegate of  India that the group had not wished to suggest any  specific number for the membership of the Advisory  Committee, considering that to be à matter. which  should be left to the Director-General and the  Executive Board. The numbers quoted in the report  had merely been mentioned in the course of the debate  and could be disregarded by the Commission,  As a member of the United States delegation,  Mr, Hope informed his fellow delegates that the  United States National Commission and many citizens  in the United States of America took a very lively  interest in the major project under discuseion,  Committees of experts on Oriental literature and  cultures had already been organized and, in the spring  of 1956, readings of Eastern and Western literary  works had taken place between Eastern scholars and  representatives of the United States of America.
(16) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) told  the Spanish delegate who found the word "appreciation  in the title of the major project too weak, that the  Secretariat had kept it because it had been adopted by  the Conference at Montevideo. He wondered, more-  over, whether it was possible, strictly speaking, to  talk of "mutual understanding of cultural values", but  said he would leave that point to the linguists on the  Commission,
(16) Referring to the point raised earlier by his  delegation, Mr. KABIR (India) wondered whether it  would not be possible to dispense with the Advisory  Committee altogether, allowing the work concerned  to be done by the Executive Board. On special  occasions, the Board could invite three or four  specialists to take part in its discussions.
(17) Mr. JORDANA DE POZAS (Spain), replying to  the Assistant Director-General, sald he thought the  Advisory Committee should decide on the final title  of the major project, If that Committee way empow-  ered to allocate the funds, it was certainly competent  to decide on the title, He urged that, apart from   IV-26 PROGRAMME  finding the best expression to convey the idea of  appreciation or understanding, the title should include  the word “universal” qualifying "Eastern and Western  cultural values"
(18) Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) ;  explained that the Secretariat had felt bound to embody  the substance of the relevant part of the report of the  Working Party on Major Projectsin a draft resolution,  That report had not yet, however, been approved, It  was for the Programme Commission tb decide whether  or not to set up an Advisory Committee, but he pointed  out that it would be in accordance with the customary  procedure if suth'a committee were set up - ‘as in the  case of the other major projects on the arid zone and  on primary education in Latin America, It had been  thought that the East-West project would necessitate  the help of a committee of specialists representing  all the activities covered by the project, The respon:  sibllity for working out the details of the project, of  course, lay with the Executive Board, but the services  of an Advisory Committee would certainly be required  at a later stage.
(18) Mr, HADJIOLOV (Bulgaria) fully supported the  major project and approved document 9C ov/2.  He said that his country's National Commission and  the Presidium of the’ Bulgarian Academy of Sciences  had made a detalled study of the project and found it  was fully consonant with the findamental aims of  Unesco. In connexion with the remarks made by  various other delegates, he pointed out that Bulgaria  too had a very rich cultural heritage comprising  Thracian, Greek, Roman, Turk and Slav elements,  and providing a very interesting field for a compara-  tive cultural study,  Like the Soviet delegate, he hoped that the major  project would provide an opportunity for collaboration  between a large number of Member ‘States, and so  enable them io reach a common definition of the  concept of civilization, which was still’ too vague,  With regard to the title, Mr. Hadjiolov was in  favour of the word "understanding". He thought  paragraph 2 of section I should mention academies of  science. Like the Soviet delegate, he hoped that  Unesco would find a means of associating the People's  Republic of China with the execution of the project,  since China was the only country, apart from India,  which could boast of a civilization stretching bäck  continuously over some thousands of years.
(20) Sir Richard BOYER (Australia) said that it was  he who had proposed in the Working Party that the  question of the aize of the Advisory Committee be left  entirely to the Diréctor-General, in consultation with  thé Executive Board. His proposal had been almost  unañimously adopted after lengthy discussion, and he  therefore hoped that the Commission would take the  same view.  Secondly, He had been very glad to hear the  Soviet delegite express the’ view that, in ‘studying  cultural relations between Orient and Occident, the  field of religion should not be forgotten. Unesco  seemed to be afraid of venturing into that sphere,  but any spproach to the problem of mutual  understanding between East and West would be  completely unrealistic if the several religious
456     COMMISSION  backgrounds were not taken into account,
(21) Mr, MALLEA (Argentina) fully supported the  project. He proposed that an amendment be made to  paragraph C, Fart III of dosument 9C/FRG/PROV/2  (page 3 by inserting "more especially" between the  words "encourage improved teaching” and the words  "in schools”. It was important not to risk the  project's boing taken over by people concerned only  with advanced literature, the organization of inter-  national meetings or the publication of specialised  works, East-West understanding should begin in the  schools,  Another point to be considered was the number of  members on the Advisory Committee and the method  of electing them, Ite terms of reference moreover  were not clear, and required definition. Paragragh
20 of document 8C/PRG/26 was very important for  the execution and success of the project, The Advi-  sory Committee could be formed of experts but not  experts only, since they tended to take a narrow view  of questions of that magnitude. How then were the  members of the Committee to be elected? By con-  sultation with Member States? Would Member States  be best fitted to suggest candidates? it might also be  possible to consult the main institutions dealing with  such matters,  Paragraph 20 of document 9C/PRG/26 also con-  tained the words: "As to qualifications for member-  ship, the first proposal was that the Committee should  be made up of specialists in Oriental and Occidental  cultures". That paragraph was not on the whole very  felicitously worded, and it should in any case refer to  Oriental cultures and Occidental cultures.  The problem was a difficult one, and could not be  settled in a hurry if a satisfactory solution was to be  found.
(22) The CHAIRMAN remarked that some of the  answers were to be found in paragraph 21 of the  Working Party's report, She asked if the Commission  were ready to record its general approval of that  report, after which it could take up the revised text of  resolution 4, 91,
(23) Mr. KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) mentioned that the Soviet delegation had  submitted a draft amendment to the resolution  contained in document 9C/PRG/PROV/2.
(24) The Commission took note, with approval, of  paragraphs 18 to 31 of the report of the Working  Party on Major Projects (document 9C/PRG/26, pages
(25) The CHAIRMAN requested the Commission to  vote on the draft resolution in document
9C/PRG/PROV/2, section by section.
(26) The preamble was unanimously approved,  without amendment.
(27) Mr. BERKELEY (Secretary) read out section,  with the amendments which had been proposed,  namely:
(1) Addition, at the end of the first line, of the  words:   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  "based upon the criteria adopted by the General Confer-  ence and",
(2) In the second paragraph, insertion in the second  line, after "and to this end" of the words: "in  "t
(3) In the same paragraph, addition of the word  "academies" after "universitins', at the end of the  third line,
(4) In the first line of the third paragraph, after  "Member States, deletion of the words " so partici-  pating" .
(28) With the above amendments, section 1 was  unanimously approved,
(20) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  thought the Commissirn should decide whether it  preferred to vute on an overall appropriation or to  give some instructions on how the funds were to be  distributed. .
(30) Mr, FIKRY (Egypt) was in favour of voting an  overall appropriation, He thought it better not to go  into details: the Executive Board could ask the  Advisory Committee for any information it required  in order to approve the estimates.
(31) Mr, MALLEA (Argentina), replying to a question  asked by the United States delegation, said that his  amendment consisted merely in strengthening the verb  "encourage in paragraph II,C, by the words "more  especially", The purpose of the amendment was  merely to stress the fact that understanding between  the East and the West should begin in the schools.
(32) The CHAIRMAN observed that the point of the  proposal of the delegate of Argentina was to give added  weight to paragraph C. She asked if the Commission  would agree to approve that paragraph, subject to a  drafting change on the lines proposed.  Agreed.
(33) Mr. KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) asked when the Commission would be able  to study the draft améndment, document 8C/DR/106  submitted by his delegation, It had, he recalled, been  sent to the General Committee of the Conference,  which had referred it officially to the Commission.  The Working Party,for its part, had decided not to  deal with 9C/DR draft resolutions, but to transmit  them to the plenary meeting of the Commission.
(34) The CHAIRMAN apologized to the delegate of the  Soviet Union for having overlooked his delegation's  draft resolution, which the General Committee had  deemed receivable, It would be taken up as soon as  the Commission had finished section III of the draft  resolution. She asked the Secretary to read the whole  section, with the amendments proposed.
(35) Mr. BERKELEY (Secretary) explained that the  amendments affected only paragraphs A and C.  Paragraph A would read: ‘enable Unesco to partici-  pate, at the request of Member States, in the activit-  ies undertaken by them for the implementation of this  Project. Paragraph C would be amended on the
457     IV-26  lines indicated by the delegate of Argentina.
(36) With the above amendments, section LI was  unanimously approved,
(37) Mr, HOPE (United States of America), referring  to document 9C/DR/106, pointed out that it was but  one of many remarkably good draft resolutions on the  major project submitted by delegations, He did not  think that the Commission could possibly do justice to  them all, and therefore proposed that they be referred  to the Advisory Committee which was to be established.
(38) The CHAIRMAN explained that the other draft  resolutions bore on the work plans, whereas the Soviet  delegation had proposed an amendment to the Director-  General's resolution,
(38) Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  recalled that the Secretariat had based its draft of  document 8C/PRG/PROV/2 on the text of resolution
4.91 contained in document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1, and  the comments made the previous day by various  delegations,
(40) Mr, KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) thanked the Chairman for psrmitting him to  comment on draft amendment 9C/DR/ 106. Paragraph
4 of document sC/DR/ 106 proposed adding a new  paragraph aft* the second paragraph of the preamble  to resolution 91, He also thanked the United States  delegate for his ay ymendation of the amendments.  As to the substance, the Soviet delegation, like many  others, did not consider the text contained in document
9C/PRG/PROV/2 sacrosanct; it could therefore be  studied in detail. When the Soviet National Commission  had made a close study of draft resolution 4, 91, some  of the members thought too much emphasis had some-  times been laid ou the "archaeological" side of activi-  ties for improving understanding between East and  West, and not enough on contemporary aspects of  civilization, The Soviet delegation had already  mentioned one Asian country which had recently  reorganized its cultural life in a remarkable’ way, and  that example should be anslysed. It was important te  bear in mind that the recent changes in the social and  economic life of the Eastern peoples would throw a  clearer light on the evolution of their cultures.
(41) The proposal in document 9C/D'1/106 was  seconded by Mr. KISELEV (Byelorussian Soviet  Socialist Republic).
(42) Mr. ERDMANN (Federal Republic of Germany)  could not accept the Soviet amendment as it stood,  because it made no reference to similar radical  changes which had taken place in Western nations. He  therefore proposed the following amended text:  "Further recognizing that an objective study of  social and cultural developments in Eastern and  Western nations will help to evaluate, in each parti-  cular case, the progress which has been achieved in  implementing the ideals for which Unesco stands,  namely, free flow of information, personal freedom,  and security and justice for all",
(43) Mr. KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist   IV-26 PROORAMME  Republics) thanked the delegate of the Federal Republic  of Germany for his vemarks, which were a very useful  contribution to the discussion, He thought it was  possible to incorporate the amendments proposed by  the German delegate in document 9C/DR/106 simply  by addi-> a mention of the fact that social changes had  occurred in the West 48 well as in the East.
(44) Sir Rièhard BOYER (Australia) agreed with the  delegite of the Federal Republic &f Germany that it  was not advisable, in such general resolutions, to refer  to specific areas of the world, To adopt the Soviet  amendment would mean isolating part of the East from  the rest of that region as well as from the West. He  therefore hoped that Mr. Kemenov would either with-  draw his amendment or extend it to include all  countries which had undergone radical changes in the  past decade.
(45) ‘Mr. KABIR (India) appreciated the Soviet  delegate's desire to recognise the dynamic element in  thé modern world, but agreed with the delegates of the  Federal Republic of Germany and Australia that no  specific area of the world should be singled out for  mention.
(46) The CHAIRMAN requested the delegates of the  Soviet Union and the Federal Republic of Germany to  endeavour to reach agreement on à joint amendment.  Pending receipt of that text in writing, she would  adjourn the discussion oti that point and ask the  Commission to vote on the budgetary provision for  the major project.
4n Mr, CHASE (Bureau of Programme and Budget)  explained that the total budget proposed for the project  for 1657-1938 was $878,885, which represented an
458     COMMISSION  increase of $215,000 over ile proposal in document
(48) Mr, WEEDEN (Australia) proposed that the  Commission vote on a round figure, i.e. $880,000,
(49) The total figure of $880,000 was unanimously  approved,
(60) ‘Mr. HOPE (United States of America) proposed  that the Director-General be asked to prepare terms  of reference for the Advisory Committee prior to the  adjournment of the current session of the Conference,  oo that delegates could transmit their comments to  the Executive Board.
(51) - Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) said  that the Director-General intended to present a text  to the Executive Board at the short session to be held  on 6 December,
(52) The CHAIRMAN listed the items oi business still  to be considered by the Commission under cultural  activities. She explained that none could be taken  forthwith, as the relevant reports weré not ready.
(53) Before the Commission adjourned, Mr.  NEBESKY-WOJKOWITZ (Austria) suggested that any  experts on Occidental and Oriental studies and  cultures present establish contact with one another  and arrange to hold an ‘informal meeting on Friday,
30 November. Such a meeting might prove extremoly  useful to the major project just discussed.  Agreed.  The meeting rose at 8.50 p.m