8 November 1956, at 10,30 a, m,  Chairman: Mr, MATSUI (Japan)  ELECTION OF THE CHAIRMAN, VICE-CHAIRMAN AND RAPPORTEUR
(1) Mr; SABA (Legal Adviser) invited the Committee  to elect its Chairman, He drew attention to the fact  that the Noidinitioris Committee had proposed Mr.  Matsui (Japan) for the office.
(2) Mr. Matsui's candidature was supported by the  delegates of Argentina, France, Italy, the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom and  the United States of America.
(3) Mr. Matsui was elected by acclamation and took  the Chair.
(4) The CHAIRMAN thanked the members of + the Com-  mittee for the honour which had been done to his  Government, and invited them to elect a Vice-  Chairman and a Rapporteur.
(5) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) proposed Mr. Golunsky,  representative of the Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lica, for the office of Vice-Chairman.
(6) The proposal was seconded by the Czechoslovak  delegate and Mr. Golunsky was elected unanimously.
(7) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America) pro-  posed Mr: Reinink, representative of the Netherlands,  for the office of Rapporteur.
(8) The proposal was seconded by the Japanese dele-  gate and Mr. Reinink was elected unanimously,  ITEM 14.3 OF THE AGENDA: DRAFT AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLE V,  PARAGRAPHS 1 AND 13, OF THE CONSTITUTION OF UNESCO,AND  TO RULES 03 AND 95A OF THE RULES OF PROCEDURE OF THE  GENERAL CONFERENCE ; PROPOSED BY FRANCE, JAPAN AND  LIBERIA (documents 9C/ADM/21 and Addendum)
(9) The CHAIRMAN explained that the proposed  amendments to the Constitution and to the Rules of  Procedure, presented respectively by the Governments  of France and Japan (document 9C/ADM/21) and by  the Government of Liberia (document 9C/ADM/21  Addendum), had been submitted to the Administrative
672  Commission the previous day, and that the Commission  had referred them to the Legal Cominitteé for consi-  deration from the legal point of view: < ..1 .  With regard to the draft amendment presented by. the  Government of Libéria, he‘explained that under Article  Vv, pafagraph ‘3,7 of the Constitütion, members of the  Exécutive Board were eligible for a second term; but  might not sérve consecutively for more than two terms.  “2e ‘pinion of the Committée was being sought on the  application of that text: - it had to decide whether a  member of the Board elected to take the place of a  resigning or deceased member wat to be regarded ds  having completed a first term. The Legal Committee  had given an opinion on à similar point at the eighth  session of the Conference and its conclusions were set  forth in document 9C/JUR/PROV/1.  oe.
(10) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) pointed out that the  Committee was required to give, an opinion on three  distinct issues, —  The amendment submitted by the Govérnments of  France and Japén sought to inciedasé the membership  of the Executive Board from 22 to 24, The principle  of the amendment had been accepted unanimously by  the Administrative Commission; which included repre-  sentatives of all thé Member States. What the Com-  mittee had fo do wés to consider the legal form of the  dtaft améndmeént]: which had, incidentally, been pre-  sented within thé prescribed tinie-limit. In his  opinion the drafting of thé amendment’ was satisfactory  from the légal point of view, - i  The draft amendment of the Government of Liberia  had likewise been communicated to Member States  within the time-limit prescribed by the Rules of Pro-  cedure; it dealt with the special case of a member of  the Board who, owing to excéptional circumstances,  had served two terms, the total length of which was  less than four years; Its effect would be confined ex-  clusively to those members whose second term-  expired at the end of the ninth session. The Admini-  strative Commission had, by a simple’ majority,  accepted the principle of such an amendment. At the  eighth session of the Conference, the Legal Committee,  the Administrative Commission and the General Con-  ference had had to decide on the general question of the  re-eligibility of members of the Board who had com-  pleted two terms of which one had been cut short by  date,   LEGAL COMMITTER  special circumstances. The normal term of office  was four years but, as a result of amendments to the  Constitution made at the eighth session, in certain  cases terms had been curtailed, There were other .  circumstances which might reduce the length of a  term, e.g. the election of a new member of the Board  following the res tion or decease of a member  during his term office, .  The third question was “whether the interpretation of  the Conatitution given by the Legal Committee and the  General Conference at the eighth session covered the  situation which the Government of Liberia was seeking  to rectify by means of an amendment to the Constitu-  tion. The problem, the. Committee had to solve was  more far-reaching than the one set by the Liberian  amendment, A certain mumber of members of the  Board whose terms had not yet expired might be  affected. :  Mr, Saba suggested that the Committee proceed to  consider the draft amendments of the French and  Japanese Governments and that, before taking a dect-  sion on the Liberian amendment, it decide on the  application of the interpretation of the Constitution  given at the eighth session.
(11) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) thought that the pro-  cedure suggested would be a reasonable one, becausy,  if the Committee decided that the interpretation given  at the eighth session so permitted, it might regard the  Liberian delegate as re-eligible, so that no amend-  ment would be required.
(12) Mr. PADOUX (France) also considered the pro-  posed procedure reasonable and legally sound.
(13) The CHAIRMAN {ivited the Committee to con- ,  sider whether thé draft amendments to the Constitu-  tion and to the Rules of Procedure presented by the  Governments of France and Japan were satisfactory  from the legal point of view.
(14) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) thought that the  Committee could approve the draft amendments sub-  mitted jointly by the Governments of France and  Japan without any difficulty. The question was mainly  one of policy with respect to the composition of the  Executive Board, and did not appear to raise any legal  Problem.
(15) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) thought that the Com-  mittee should make it clear in its report that the draft  amendments had been presented within the ‘prescribed  time-1im{t and that théy were properly drafted. He  himself had examined the French and English texts and  they seemed legally correct; he could not, however,  express an opinion on the Spanish and Russian texts.
(16) ‘Mr. CAILLET-BOIS (Argentina) and Mr. ZHUKOV  (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) declared that  they approved the Spanish and Russian texts, respec-  tively. ’
(17) The draft amendments proposed by the Govern-'  ments of France and Japan (document 9C/ADM/21)  were approved.
(18) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) invited the Committee
673     vig-1  to consider, : document 9C/JUR/PROY/1, which con-  sisted of extracis from the fifth report of the Legal  Committee’ to the Meiliate atlye Commission, and  from the report of the “Admintatrative Commission to  the General Conférence at its eighth’ session. Inhis”  opinion, the problem had been Presented in the ‘very  widest terms and the Legal Committee had reached  conclusions applicable to terms of office éiirtailed by  chance events, and definitely not exclusively | to terms  reduced to two years by virtue of the constitutional  amendments adopted at the previous session. '  There ore a mumber. o different cases which might  arise, At the eighth session, the | Conference had, a  a consequence of thé” change inthe’ composition of  Executive Board, “brought fos où end all the ‘terms’ 9)  office which were still running, and most of thém  been terminated before their normal date of expiry.  Another possible case was ‘that in which the resignation  or death of Oiie of its members obliged ‘the Board to  roplace him, In that case the Board would elect a  person ot the: same nationality ab the ‘member who' was  being replaced, The position of thé Liberian delegate  was different, as, at the second extraordinary session  of the Conference, a member of the Board, nf Yugo-  slav nationality, had resignéd, and Mr, Massaquoi  had been elected to take his placé by the General Con-  ference itself,  He read out to the Committee part of the summary  record of the sixth meeting of the Legal Committee at  the eighth session, at which thé Commitieé had given  its opinion on the Te-éligibillty of the members of the  Board whiosé térma of officé had been cut short (docu-  ment 8C/Procéedings, page 900, Paragraphs 61-72).  The “conclusions reached at that meeting appeared to’  apply both to the special situation’ produced in 1954 by  the change in the Executivé Board's composition,’ snd  to terms of office curtailed before that time in  consequence of a member 's being elected to replace  another member who had resigned or diéd. The ex-  tracts given in document 8C/JUR/ PROV/ 1 seemed to  him to be less conclusive.
(19) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) also considered ‘that the  conclusions’ for mulated by thé Committee at the eighth  session were very clear, Howevér; although’ ‘théy  clearly applied to terms of office prematurely cur-  tailed ae à result of ah'à it to the Constitution,  it might be regarded és‘ôpen to’ question ‘whethér they  provided an answer to the following question: ahould -  part of à term of office be regarded hs a Nill term, ie  a member’ were ‘elected’ for part of an tinedmpleted':’  term of the Fésignation’ or déath of another member?  For his own part, he béliéved'thé décision taken at the  eighth session’ “to bé of sufficiently ‘wide ‘éppliéation to  cover that case as well, Hé wirned the Committee CE  against thé dangers which might be entailed by a au  ferent interpretation | for: general application,’ Ita -  member elected td replace another member for his*  unexpired’ périod of office were to, bé regééded as ré-  eligible for two further terms, ‘it would bé possible ‘!  for thé methber'elected as a replacement té take his’ -  seat at the beginning’ of the second year df the term;  and in that case he ‘might sit on the Board for the re-  maining three years of the’ current termi, 1d addition  to two subsequent terme - more than eight years all  told. Such an intérpretation would have remilts alien  to the spirit of the Constitution, He was of the opinion   VIIF-1  that a solution to the case of the Liberian represen-  tative, which was à highly excéptional one, should be  found not by means of a general interpretation, but by  special législation, as was proposed in the Liberian  Government's draft amendment,
(20) The CHAIRMAN thought that the Committee  might simply note that the interpretation of the Con-  stitution given at Montevideo covered the Liberian  delegate's case.
(21) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) suggested that the  Committee might consider the possibility of stating  in its report that the question appeared to have been  settled already in general terms at the eighth session,  that the conclusions formulated in 1954 applied not  only to terms of office which had beén curtailed by  virtue of an amendment to the Constitition but also to  the terms of members appointed to replace resigning  or deceased members, and that those conclusions  should be sustained,  Approved,
(22) The CHAIRMAN invited the Committee to con-  sider the draft amendment of the Government of  Liberia. v
(23) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) observed that the  draft amendment had been communicated to Member  States within the time-limit prescribed by the Rules  of Procedure, the text was legally sound, and the  only point to mention was that the amendment was of  a limited character, in that it applied only to the  ninth session of the Conference.
(24) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  asked whether the statement that the proposed amend-  ment was of "limited character’ meant that it was  purely provisional and that it would not be retained in  the Constitution after the end of the ninth session.
(25) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) confirmed that it was  a transitional provision.
(26) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan) remarked that the  interpretation of the Montevideo decisions just arrived  at meant that the Liberian delegate could be made re-  eligible only by means of an amendment to the Con-  stitution. . As the Administrative Commission had  agreed to incorporate the Liberian amendment in the  text of the drift amendments of France and Japan,  the wording of the former. would require revision.  He suggested that; in the English and French texts  of the Liberian amendment, the words ''any member’  and "un membre"! be substituted for the words "the  members" and "les membres", with consequential  drafting changes in the rest of the paragraph. In addi-  tion, the period of "less than four years'' mentioned  seemed liable to confuse the issue, since certain.  members of the Board re-elected by the drawing of  lota at the eighth session had served for about four  years; it would be preferable to mention a period  corresponding more closely to the case of the Liberian  representative, such as "three and a half years".
(27) The CHAIRMAN wondered whether the second of
674  LEGAL COMMITTEE  the Japanese representative's two suggestions were  not one of substance rather than law,
(28) Mr, PADOUX (Frince) remarked that the func-  tion of the Committeé ‘was to consider problems from  the legal standpoint; it was not empowered to deal  with matters of substance or with individual cases,  Accordingly it should simply take its stand on the '  decision taken at the eighth session, which would mean  pronouncing against the Liberian proposal; That would  doubtless be a pity from the personal point of view,  but it seemed the wiser course, Despite ita transi-  tional character, the Liberian proposal might, if  adopted, entablish a precedent which could lead to  difficulties later on.
(29) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) said that he had inter-  preted the Chairman's remark differently from the.’  French representative, In his view, the Contmittee's  function was nôt simply to consider texts from the  drafting point of view, He believed the Chairman had  meant that a drafting amendment could be made to the  Constitution, but that; at the stage reached, it was no  longer procedurally admissible for substantive amend-  ments to be made to draft amendments already pre-  sented. Under the Rules of Procedure, no substantive  amendment tô a draft amendment to the Constitution  could be considered unless it had been submitted to  Member States three months or more before the opening  of the session.  There could be no uncertainty, in his opinion, as to  the application of the proposed amendment.
(30) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan) agreed that it was not  for the Committee to discuss matters of substance.  The Administrative Commission had, in principle,  agreed to the Liberian amendment's being incorporated  in the draft amendments of France and Japan, and the  Committee could not reverse that decision. Its func-  tion, however, was to suggest a clear text free from  all possible ambiguity, . | oo  "It seemed certain that the Liberian Government did  not intend its amendment to apply to all the members  of the Board who had served two terms totalling four  years or less than four years. The Committee should  i therefore try to free the text from ambiguity on that  point. That was why he had suggested that it be  amended.
(31) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed with the  delegate of Japan regarding the need for greater pre-  cision in the text of the amendment proposed by the  Government of Liberia, and with his contention that  the Administrative Commission had already pronounced  on the question of substance involved. However, he.  did not think that those views were incompatible with  the views expressed by the Legal Adviser. In  any case, he thought that the Committee's report  to the Administrative Commission should contain  . some reference to the important question of  precedent.
(32) The CHAIRMAN called upon the Committee to  decide: firstly, whether it was incumbent upon it to  give an opinion on the case of the Liberian delegate;  and, secondly, whether it wished to take a decision on  Mr. Haguiwara's suggestions.   LEGAL COMMITTEE
(33) Mr, SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  thought that the Committee should examine the text  of the proposed amendment,’ paying special attention  to thé points raised by the delegate of Japan. The  Administrative Commission had already pronounced  on the question of substance, and the General Con-  ference, at its éighth'session, had recognized that  special constitutional provisions could be made to  cover a temporary, transitional situation.- He there-  fore saw no legal objection to the adoption of an  amendment to the Constitution designed to cover a  single case of a transitional nature.  Réferring to the proposal of the Japanese delegate  to replace the words "four years" by "three and a  half years", he thought the Committee should know  the exact period served on the Board by the Liberian  representative during his two consecutive terms of  office.
(34) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that the Liberian  delegate had been elected to the Board at the éxtra-  ordinary session of thé General Conference held in  July 1953. His first térm of office had expired at the  end of the eighth session of the General Conference,  on 10 December 1954: 1t had thus lasted less than  eighteen months, The Liberian representative had  then been re-elected at the eighth session for a tèrm  of office which might have lasted four yesrs, but,  following the drawing of lots, had been reduced to  two years: he had therefore served for a little less  than three years and six months.
(35) The CHAIRMAN asked Mr. Haguiwara whether  he wished to submit an amendment to the text pre-  sented by the Liberian Government.
(36) ‘Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) felt that the text  needed altering to prevent ary uncertainty as to its  application, He himself was one of the members  whose two consecutive terms of office had lasted about  four years, and he did not believe that the Adminis-  trative Commission had intended, when it approved  the Libérian proposal, to make him re-eligible. The  Committee was competent to make any drafting altera-  tion it considered necessary, and it was perfectly  entitled to tell the Administrative Commission what  wording best expressed the Commission's apparent  intention.
(37) Mr, COWELL {United Kingdom) felt that the  points raised by the delegate ‘of Japan were both per-  tinent and correct. He pointed out, however,’ “that  the Cormittee was” to leglalate iri general terms  for one particular case, and would obviously have  uch difficulty in phrasing a general ariendment that  would apply only to that one case, He feared that,  although the amendment was described aé p transi-  tional measure, it might well be rétainèd in the Con-  stitution and used to cover similar cases in the future.  For that reason, he thought the Committee should  seriously consider the use of language that would  make it clear that the amendment was designed only  to reaeat the existing Liberian representative on the
(38) Mr. CASTELLANOS (Colombia) thought that the  confusion prevailing in the discussion arose from a
875  ViI-1  wish to cover two cases by the same form of words,  that was to säy; to find à phrase that would be applic-  able both in général and to a particular case. He  agreed with the remarks made by the delegate of the  United Kingdom, He alao shared the view of the  Japanese delegate that a generally applicable phrase  should be found, which, whilst settling the particular  case of Liberia, could alao be used in dealing with  similar cases in the future.
(30) Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Répub-  Mes) said that the position was clear; the Legal Com-  mittee was not réquired to decide on the main question,  but to draft the amendment submitted to it in a satis-  factory legal form, The danger of creating a precedent  should not be taken into account: however the amend-  ment was drafted, the case legislated for might con-  stitute a precedent, It would perhaps be advisable,  however, to take expert advice on revising the text.
(40) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) thought that the text  was sufficiently clear not to create a precedent, be-  cause it applied only to members whose two consecu-  tive terma expired at the end of the ninth session.
(41) Mr, SABA (Legal Advisér) said that, in his view,  the functions of the Committee should not be confined  to examining the texts from the point of view of  drafting, It was perfectly entitled to give its opinion  on the interpretation of the Constitution formulated at  the eighth session, and to make any comments which  might be necessary on thé legal procedure to be  adopted in connexion with smendments to the Consti-  tution, including amendments to right injustices  created by special circumstances.
(42) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) realized that the  amendment was limited by specific reference to the ’  ninth session of the General Conference, but feared,  nevertheless, that ite terms were too general. Nothing  would prevent a member of the Executive Board from  immediately filing an amendment to replace the word  "ninth" by "tenth", and subsequently "eleventh", etc.
(43) The CHAIRMAN agreed with Mr. ‘Saba about the  functions of the Legal Committee. What the United  Kingdom delegate had said also seemed to the point.  The wise course would be to consider the question  from all poliits of view and té find a legal solution  which would not, even at some future date, be at vari-  ance with the Constitution. It would, he thought, be  possible for the Committee to draft’a report on the  solution it found, before presenting the draft  amendments. 0
(44) Mr. ZHUKOV (Usion of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) took it that, after dealing with the particular case  under discussion, the Committee proposed’ to look into  all special situations which constituted an injustice.
(45) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser), in reply € toa quéstion  from Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan), “explained that the  members of the Executive Board elected on 8 Decem-  ber 1982, at the seventh’ session of the Conference,  had assumed office on 11 Décember 1952. It was cor-  rect, therefore, that the Liberian amendment would  apply to several members of the Board whose two   VIII-1  consecutive terms of office would expire on 5  December 1956. To be precise, it would apply to  three members, including the Liberian representative.
(46) Mr, SIMSARIAN (United States of America) felt  that, as the other two members to whom the amend-  ment might apply would have served, by the end of the  ninth session, for a period of four years, less approxi-}-  mately one week, the problem involved was not of  great importance. Since the term of office of Board  members was four years, he did not think it likely  that any member in the future would serve less than  four years out of the two consecutive terms for which  he was eligible. He did not, therefore, believe there  was any danger that the amendment would be used as  a precedent to cover similar cases in the future.
(47). Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) remained uncon-  vinced on that point, and felt that the Administrative  Commisaion would prefer to vote on a text relating  specifically to the case in question. Although he  realized that that type of text was not entirely suitable  for inclusion in the Constitution, he would propose  replacement of the amendment submitted by the  Government of Liberia by a text on the following lines:  "The member of the Executive Board representing  the Republic of Liberia, whose term expires at the  ninth session of the General Conference, is re-eligible,  notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of  Article V of the Constitution".
(48) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) wondered whether  the Committee would not be altering the substance of  the proposal if it adopted the formula proposed by the  United Kingdom delegate. In reply to a question from  the United States representative, he said that a fur-  ther case might arise at the 1958 Conference. The  amendments proposed by the French and Japanese  Governments provided that one of the new members of  the Board should be chosen, by the drawing of lots,  for a period of two years. .
(49) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan) once again repeated  that he did not want to be one of the members of the  Board whom the Liberian amendment would benefit,  That was his personal wish; he was not apeaking with  legal considerations in mind. But he saw no objection  to the Committee's approving the draft amendment,  leaving the final decision to the Administrative Com-  mission; it would be advisable, however, for the  Commission to be informed of the possibility of its  having another text, better reflecting ita wishes, sub-  mitted to it.
(60) Mr, REININK (Netherlands) (Rapporteur) thought  that only the first part of thw proposal of the delegate  of Japan should be included in the report of the Legal  Conimittee, the second part being left to the Admini-  strative Commission,
(51) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) considered that the  Committee should say Li its report that, owing to the  circumstances and datés of the expiry of members!  terms of office, the Liberian amendment might work  to the advantage of three other members of the Board.  He did not believe it would be possible to explain at  the same time that that did not appear to have been
676  LEGAL COMMITTEE  the intention of the Government of Liberia.
(52) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed that that  was the form in which the report of the Legal Com-  mittee should be presented to the Administrative Com-  mission. However, he thought the Committee could  add a reference to the difficulty of phrasing an amend-  ment in general language 50 as to cover one specific  case only.
(53) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) suggested that the  report should say that the draft amendment appeared  to apply to special situations, in so far as it covered  only terms of office expiring at the end of the ninth  session, The Committees could then ask the Adminis-  trative Commission whether or not the proposed for-  mula should be retained. It would mention in that  connexion, firstly, that, for its own part, it considered  it preferable to adopt rules of general application, and  not individual rules applying to only one session, and,  secondly, that study of the Liberian draft amendment  had shown that it would cover three specific cases.
(54) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) would second the  proposal of the Japanese delegate that the words "the  members" be replaced by "any member". However,  he still felt that specific rather than general language  was desirable in such an amendment and thought that  the text he had proposed was pertinent, although it had  received no support.
(65) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) said that, if it were  agreed that the text should also 1apply to three other  members of the Board, it was unnecessary to alter it.  However, if the close of the General Conference were  delayed a few days owing to unforeseen circumstances,  the question of re-eligibility would no longer arise in  the case of two of those members,
(56) The CHAIRMAN considered that the report might  be drafted as Mr. Saba had suggested.
(57) Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Soclalist Republics)  agreed with the Chairman. There was, however, po  need for the report to mention that the Committee pre-  ferred the adoption of provisions which would be of  general application. Such a recommendation might be  helpful to the Administrative Commission, but it might  also bring it to a deadlock.
(58) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) had gathered that some  delegates were in favour of adopting a method accord-  ing preference to a general formula; he himself, how-  ever, had made no proposal to that effect.
(59) Mr. PADOUX (France) also approved Mr, Saba's  suggestions concerning the terms of the report,  Reverting to the statements of the Colombian represen:  tative, he observed that most delegates wanted a  general formula, Perhaps the best solution would be  for the Committee to do as the United Kingdom repres-  entative had suggested: to take a general decision, on  the principle, with reference to the conclusions of the  eighth session, but to propose a transitional measurs  in the special case of the Liberian representative.
(60) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) believed that the   LEGAL COMMITTEE  French representative!» suggestion reflected the -  views of the Committee, The Committee could report  its conclusions concerning the interpretation of the  Constitution given'at the eighth session, adding how-  ever that, although adopting a particular intérpreta-  tion, it had not dismissed from considération certain  statements showing how it was possible to right in-  justices created by special situations through tem-  porary amendments to the Conatitution, It would also  be permissible for it to point out that its terms of  reference extended only to commenting on the charac-  ter and implications of the draft amendments from the  legal standpoint.
(61) It was decided that the Committee should draft  its report along the lines just suggested by Mr, Saba,  ITEM 14.1 OF THE AGENDA: PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO  TRE RULES OF PROCEDURE OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  (document 9C/ADM/12) :
(62) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan) (Representative of the  Executive Board) said that he had been instructed to  present the views of the Executive Board on item
14.1 of the agenda, since the Chairman and Vice-  Chairman of th? Board were unable to attend the meet-  ing. The Board had been given the task of considering  certain of the Ruled of Procedure with a view to making  the running of the General Conference more flexible,  A Special Committee had studied the replies of Mem-  ‘ber States to a questionnaire which had been sent to  ‘them, and had set forth its conclusions in document  EX/SPC/Report. In the case of the Nominations Com-  mittee, the Speclal Committee had tried to evolve a  method which would avoid duplicating the elections to  the Executive Board, first in the’ Nominations Com-  mittee and then in the plenary meeting, It had con-  sidered two solutions: solution A, whereby the Nomi-  nations Committee would first of all have an exchange  of views in private meeting on the nominations made  by Member States, and then, in an open meeting,  nominate by secret ballot a number of candidates  equal to the mumber of seats to be filled, after which  that list of candidates would be approved or rejected  en bloc by a vote in the plenary meeting; and solution  B, whereby the Nominations Committee would not vote,  but would decide, in a general discussion, on the  principles to be followed in the election, and would  examine the nominations and present them all to the  General Conference, accompanied by recommendations  on principles, after which thé Conference would elect  the members in plenary meeting, The Executive  Board, in which there were advocates of both solutions,  had chosen solution B, and the Secretariat had been  instructed to present amendments to the Rules of  Procedure applying that solution,
(63) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) said his delega-  tion agreed that there was no point in duplicating the  vote on candidates for election to the Executive Board  as had been done in the past, and would, therefore,  accept the amendment proposed in that respect.
(64) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America) sup-  ported that view, but wondered whether the procedure  for the election of members of the Executive Board
671     viii-1  could not be simplified still further by doing away with  the necessity for a méeting of the Nominations Com-  mittee In that connexion, According to the proposal  under consideration it seemed that the Nominations  Committee would meet merely to discuss the list of  nominations, which it would then present in its en-  tirety to the plenary meeting. He saw no real  reason why the Secretariat could not present the  complete list of nominations directly to the plenary  meeting.
(65) Mr, CAILLET-BOIS (Argentina) said that, from  the remarks made by the representative of the Execu-  tive Board, it appeared that the meeting of the Nomi-  nations Coinmittee was not to be dispensed with; on  the contrary, it was considered useful. In his view,  the Nominations Committee ahould not confine itself  to drawing up a list; it should also make a choice;  for that reason it was essential that the Committee  should meet.
(66) The CHAIRMAN observed that the Rules of Pro-  cedure required the Nominations Committee to present  nominations for membership of the Executive Board,  and there could be no question, at the stage reached,  of cutting it out.
(67) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan), speaking on behalf of  his delegation and not as a representative of the  Executive Board, sald that he had raised that very  point himself in the Special Committee and in the Execu-  tive Board, advocating a simplification of the procedure  set out in document 8C/ADM/12, but the Board had not  deemed it expedient to relieve the Nominations Com-  mittee of its part in the election of the members of the  Board, The United States delegate's suggestion would  probably not meet with the approval of all delegations  at the ninth session.  Since elections to the Board were to take place fairly  soon, he wondered whether it was advisable to amend  the procedure at once, and whether it would not be  preferable to discuss the matter after the elections and  to prepare measures then for application from the tenth  session onwards, .
(68) Mr, SIMSARIAN (United States of America) said  that, in the light of the explanation given by the dele-  gate of Japan, he could understand the necessity for  proceeding step by step in the simplification of General  Conference procedure, and would therefore withdraw  his previous proposal and support the recommendation  made by the Executive Board in paragraph 6 of docu-  ment 9C/ADM/12,
(69) Mr. CAILLET-BOIS (Argentina) thought that it  was not superfluous for.a vote to be taken by both  bodies, since they had different responsibilities and  functions. He pointed out that the previous meeting  (of the Nominations Coinmittee) was a safeguard against  somewhat hasty votes, which might occasion surprises.  He agreed, however, with the course advocated by the  Japanese delegate.
(70) In reply to a question from the CHAIRMAN, Mr.  CAILLET-BOIS (Argentina) explained that he was  opposed to the abolition of the vote by the Nominations  Committee, which he considered useful.   VII-L  (T1) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) sought clarifi-  cation of the legal point before the Committee, He  did not think the Committee should enter into discus-  sion of matters of substance, which would involve  consideration of the entire machinery of the General  Conference; and asked whether the effect of the pro-  posal of the delegate of Argentina would be to reject  the amendment to Rule 30 of the Rules of Procedure  and maintain the existing system.
(72) Mr. CAILLET-BOIS (Argentina) wished to make  it clear that he had not meant to oppoye the proposal  before the Committee, following the explanations  given by the Japanese delegate. He had previously  urged that there was something to be said for the dual  vote, but he had also stated his agreement with the  proposal. In his view, it would be useful to discuss  the question in further detail,
(73) The CHAIRMAN observed that the Committee  was divided: some delegates wanted to abolish the  dual vote while others, like the Argentine represen-  tative, recommended ita retention, He wondered  whether the discussion needed to be contimued,
(74) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) pointed out that docu-  ment 9C/ADM/12 contained a body of proposels for  impro ing the Rules of Procedure of the Conference,  covering simultaneously the value of the Advisory  Committee on Programme and Budget, the functions  of the General Committee and of the Nominations  Committee, and the discussion in plenary meetings of  proposals rejected by the Commissions and Com-  mittees. He considered that those proposals, as a  statement of policy, should first be considered by the  Administrative Commission. He wondered why they  had been referred in the first instance to the Legal  Committee,
(75) Mr. VAN PEURSEN (Netherlands) agreed with  the Japanese delegate.
(76) The CHAIRMAN believed that in submitting the  document to the Legal Committee the General Com-  mittee had been actuated by considerations of urgency.  There seemed, however, to be nothing to prevent the  Committee from referring it to the Administrative  Commission.
(77) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) owned that the situa-  tion was rather perplexing. The Committee had had  the question directly referred to it, but possessed no  information about the views of the majority of Mem-  ber States, In the first place, he would not like the  powers of the Legal Committee to be curtailed; but,  if the Committee considered that it was primarily a  problem of general policy, it could say in its report  that, before going into the substance, it wished to  learn the Administrative Commigsion's views.  Secondly, the Committee should consider whether it  was advisable to amend the Rules of Procedure before  the elections to the Executive Board.
(78) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) welcomed the
878  LEGAL COMMITTEE  explanations given and the suggestions made, How:  ever, as the Committee had already spent some time  on discussion of the recommendations made in  document 9C/ADM/13, he thought that a statement on  the following lines could be added to the report to be  made to the Administrative Commission: "In the |  light of the consideration it has already given to the.  problem, the Legal Committee would see no legal  objection to the wording of the proposed amendments,  as contained in document 9C/ADM/12". Thus, if the  Administrative Commission were to accept the amend-  ments submitted in their existing form, it would not  be necessary for the texts to be referred again to the  Legal Committee.
(79) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) felt that it would not .  be necessary to specify the date at which a decision  should be reached, if the document were referred to  the Administrative Commission as coming under the  beading of general policy, The Committee could  ‘simply state in its report that certain of its members  had been dubious about the advisability of amending  the Rules of Procedure before the immediately forgh-  coming elections.
(80) Mr, ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  Mes) understood the Japanese representative to mean  that, as the matters under consideration touched upon  general policy, the Legal Committee should not con-  sider them until they had been referred *o the Admini-  strative Commission,
(81) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) thought that, as the  United Kingdom delegate had suggested, the Com-  mittee should say in its report that, should the Admini-  strative Commission consider it advisable to adopt the  proposed amendments, it might regard thé texts sub-  mitted as satisfying the requisite conditions from the  legal standpoint. It would be well, however, to point  out, as the Japanese delegate had suggested, that, in  view of the near date of the elections, immediate  adoption of the amendmenta might be rather confusing  for delegations.
(82) Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub- -  lics) wished to know whether the Committee considered  that the substance of the amendments should be con-  sidered by the Administrative: Commission and whether  it was the Committee's intention to advise only on the  wording.
(83) The CHAIRMAN believed that the answer was in  the affirmative,
(84) It was decided that a draft report should be pre-  pared along the lines just indicated and that the Com-  mittee should meet the following day to consider it,
(85) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that, owing to  the very short time allowed, the draft report could  be ready for the following day Li English and French  only,  The meeting rose at 1,10 p.m.