X-10  Commissions, which he made in . 1985-19588, by:
(1) submitting to the tenth session of the Genersl  Conference a new study consisting of:  (a) a report, accompanied by specific examples,  on those among the methods and means of action of  the National Commissions which have proved most  effective in ensuring and strengthening the partici-  pation of Member States in the implementation of the  programme; .  (b) en asssssment of the results achieved by the  various methods emplayed by the Organisation to  help Member States in developing their National  Commisdions;
(4) making, in the light of this report, the neces-  sary arrangements for:  (a) the preparation of a 1958 revised edition of the  Guide for National Commissions’;  (b) the inclusion in the proposed programme for    COMMITTER ON REPORTE OP MEMBER STATES
1959-1060 of any proposals for intensifying and  improving the participation of National Commissions  in the implementation of the programme dnd the  co-operation of the Secretariat with the National  Commissions."
(54) There being no objection, the drafts proposed as  new paragraphs 40, 41 and 42 were adopted.
(55) The draft report as a whole was adopted, as  amended,
(56) The CHAIRMAN expressed his appreciation to  the Rapporteur, to the representative of the Director-  General, and to the Committee fur their co-operation.  The meeting rose at 6.10 p.m,  TENTH MEETING
12 November 1966, at 4 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. ZEISSL (Austria)
(1) The CHAIRMAN declared the meeting open and,  there being no quorum, announced that, in accordance  with Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference, the meeting would adjourn for ten minutes.  (The meeting adjourned for ten minutes.)
(2) There being still no quorum after that statutory  adjournment, the CHAIRMAN asked if all members  present would agree temporarily to waive paragraph
2 of Rule 69, as provided in paragraph 3 of that Rule.
(3) It was so agreed.  ITEM 17.3 OF THE AGENDA: PERIDDIC REPORTS ON HUMAN  RIGHTS (Resolution 624 B (XXII) of the Economic and Social  Council) (document 9C/11)
(4) The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Committee  proceed to consider the question of periodic reports  on human rights (document 9C/11) and invited the  representative of the Director-General to introduce  the subject.
(5) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) recalled the terms of resolution 624 B (XXII  of the Economic and Social Council, only Part I of  which concerned the Committee. In paragraph 3 of  that part, the Council invited the Specialized Agencies,  "in respect of rights coming within their purview, to  transmit to the Secretary-General, every three years,  a report on a topical basis, summarizing the informa-
742  tion which they have received from their Member  States during the preceding three years and to co-  operate in the full realization of the alm set forth in  this resolution, Mr, Maheu thought the Committee  would have to consider three points: (1) the content  of the reports, (2) their timing, (3) the plan for the  reports of Member States... |  As to content, the reports should deal with the  rights coming within the purview of Unesco - the right  to information (Article 19), the right to education  (Article 26), the right to participate in the cultural  life of the gommunity, and to share the benefits of  scientific advancement and copyright protection  (Article 27, paragraphs ! end 2).. The right to  information was not, of course, the concern of Unesco  alone. . Lo -  The problem of timing was not an urgent one, but  should be mentioned. It resulted from the fact that  the United Nations asked its Member States to submit  a report every three years, whereas Unesco received  its reports every two years. The Commission on  Human Rights would begin by considering, in 1958,  reports covering the years 1954, 1855 and 1856, which  would.have been sent in by Member States in 1957.  The problem would thus not arise until 1861, and the  General Conference, at its next session in 1958, would  be better placed to take decisions on the subject in  the light of the preliminary experience gained.  The problem of ‘he plan for the reports of Member  States would arise if they were asked in future to  furnish information regarding the implementation of  human rights as part of their ordinary reports to the   COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OP MEMBER STATES  Organisation, A decision should be reached as to  whether such information should form a new section  of the reports; or whether it should be distributed  among the different sections of the existing plan,  according to the field to which it applied - information  regarding the right to education being included, for  instance, in the section on education, Reports of  Member States would therefore contain, henceforth,  three types of information: that called for by the  Constitution of the Organization, that relating to the  execution of the programme, and that concerning the  observance of human rights, .  The United Nations Secretariat was of the opinion  that the first report submitted to the Commission on  Human Rights should present a complete picture of  the current situation in respect of ail the various  rights, subsequent reports Lien dealing only with  auch changes as might have occurred in that situation.  The reports of the Specialized Agencies would have  to be sent to the United Nations during the third  quarter of 1057; they would either be reproduced in  their original form, or - when information çyncerning  à particular right was received from several, different  sources - embodied in à general report drawn up by  the United Nations Secretariat,  The Secretariat of Unesco was already in posses-  sion of the reports from Member States for 1954 and
1955, some of which gave information regarding rights  within the purview of the Organization; but to make  use of those reports would entail the interpretation  of information not supplied with that end in view -  which was always a delicate matter. The Secretariat  wag therefore contemplating the circulation to  Member States of a questionnaire on progress  achieved in the implementation of such human rights  as came within the Organization's purview during
1984, 1088 and 19086, States which had already  supplied such information in their usual reports could  refer the Secretariat thereto. The questionnaire, in  view of its iciportance, should, after being prepared  by the Secretariat, be approved by the Executive  Board, to which the General Conference should give  the necessary authority for that purpose.
(6) The CHAIRMAN extended a welcome to the  observer for the United Nations, and invited him to  address thy meeting,
(1) Mr. HILL (United Nations) said he would confine  himself to making a few remarks to supplement the  most comprehensive statement just made by the  Director-General's representative.  He emphasized that the new system of reporting  adopted by the Economic and Social Council in the  resolution under consideration represented an import-  ant development in the work of the United Nations for  the protection of human rights, its ultimate value  depending to a very great extent on how sound a  basis would be laid during the following few years.  Accordingly, the Secretary-General of the United  Nations felt most strongly that the initial stages  should proceed slowly, and had therefore considered  that an experimental exercise should be carried out  the following year, when Member States would be  requested to report on the situation in respect of 1954,
1955 and 1956, to serve as the basis for the definitive  procedure to be established after the fourteenth
43  X-10  session of the Commission on Human Rights and the  tenth session of Unesco's (lensral Conference in
1988, The view expressed by the representative of  the Director-General was thus fully in line with the  opinion of the United Nations in the matier.  The Secretary-General had indeed been so anxious  not to take any precipitate action that he had  refrained from circulating questionnaires to Member  States and had framed his request for information in  the form of à request to Member Stetes to conform  with the provisions of the resolution of the Economic  and Social Council before 1 July 1957, leaving the  decision on the manner in which to comply with that  request to the Member States themselves during that  experimental period, He expected that the provisions  of paragraph 1.4 of resolution 624 B (XXII) would be  met the next time the Secretary-Ceneral approached  Member States for information,  The successful implementation of the resolution  very largely depended on the Specialised Agencies,  and on Unesco and the International Labour Organisa-  tion in particular, and he would therefore suggest that  those agencies consider the desirability of proceeding  without any undue haste in the early stages, and of  treating the first series of reports as exprrimental  in nature, the decision as to long-term methods to be  taken at a later juncture.
(8) The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Committee  might wirh first of all to comment on the content of  the reports, and to discuss later the questions of  timing and of the plan of the reports.
(0) Mr. LEE (United States of America) was anxious  to know that measures had been taken to avoid any  duplication between the United Nations and the  Specialized Agencies in their requests for information  from Member States. He asked, for justance, whether  it had been established that Unesco 7 ould be solely,  or at least primarily, responsible for the rights listed  in paragraph II. 2 of resolution 624 B (XXII) of the  Economic and Social Council,
(10) Mr, HILL (United Nations) was unable to give  the exact wording of the Secretary-General's request  to Member States, as ts had not a copy of it dvailable  in New Delhi, He would, however, issure the delegate  of the United States of America that the United Nations  would at all times bear in niind the desirability of  avoiding duplication of work with Unesco. There  might be some question of the United Nations concern-  ing itself with the right to freedom of information,  which was among the three rights referred to by the  previous speaker, but in any case Member States  would be free to refer in their replies to information  already supplied to the United Nations or to Unesco  as the case might be.
(11) Mr. LEE (United States of America), turning to  the question of the content of the reports, said that,  while he appreciated the need for proceeding slowly  in the early stages-of obtaining such information, it  was none the less important to bear in mind the  desirability of wording the inquiry in such à way as  to limit the scope of the replies of Member States,
80 that the information would be to some extent  comparable - thus making it possible to draw   X-10  satisfactory generalisations, He would accordingly  suggest, as far as Unceco was concerned, that some  attempt should be made to define the information  desired; the Secretariat could perhaps prepare such  an outline, as it had done in resgect of the National  Commissions, to be submitted to the Executive Board  for its approval.
(12) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) thought that, for the  first report, the Secretariat of Unesco might use the  information supplied by Member States in their  reports to the General Conference at its ninth  session, supplementing it by the results of a seperate  inquiry. The periodical reports should include a  special section on the observance of hunian rights,  as had been done in respect of matters relating to  Technical Assistance. The Committee should recom-  mend that measure to the General Conference.  {13) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) felt  that there was no difficulty about the content of the  reports, or about timing - a problem which would  solve itself automatically. As for the preparation  of the reports, the first should, he considered, be  based both on the reports of Member States and on  the replies to a special questionnaire. Since, in  subsequent reports, Member States would merely be  required to report any changes which had taken place  in respect of human rights, it might perhaps be  uetter to distribute such information among the  various sections of the existing reports than to add  an additional section,
(14) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) thought the information  conveyed in Member States’ reports should be  supplemented by a survey which would stimulate  interest among those States.
(15) Mr: LEE (United States of America) said that,  as its final action in the matter, the Committee might  wish to recommend a resolution to the Programme  Commission, authorizing the Director-General,  after due study of the relevant information available  to him, to prepare an appropriate questionnaire for  eliciting information from Member States in compli-  ance with 1e provisions of resolution 624 B (XXII) of  the Economis and Social Council; to submit that  questionnaire, after apnroval by the Executive Board,  to Member States; and to prepare a report thereon  to the United Nations.  COMMITTEE ON REPORTE OF MEMBER
(16) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) seconded  the proposal of the delegate of the United States of  America and suggested that the Director-General's  representative should submit to the Committee a  document embodying the views expressed during the  discussion.
(17) Mr; MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) said he would put such a document before  the Committee at its next meeting. He asked for  the views of the Committee regarding the use by the  Secretariat of the reports for 1054 end 1955, already  submitted by Member States, in drafting the report  on the implementation of human rights, To avoid  the danger of misinterpretation, the Secretariat would  prefer to send Member States a draft report, so that  they could either supply further information or refer  the Secretariat to the reporta they had already  sent in.  In anewer to the observation made by the delegate  of the United States of Ameriça, Mr. Maheu  explained that, in certain cases, Member Statos  would receive questionnaires from several organi-  zations, That was inevitable, as the right to  information, for instance, came within the purview  both of the United Nations and of Unesco. It would  be for the governments to decide to which organiza-  tion they would send all or part of the relevant  informetion,
(18) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) wished to hear what the  representative of the Director-General thought about  the inclusion of à section on human rights in the plan  for Member Statea' reports.
(18) Mr, MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) thought the Committee might recommend  to the Conference the inclusion in the reports of  Member States of a section on the implementation of  human rights, the plan for which should be approved  by the Executive Board,
(20) The CHAIRMAN noted that the Committee  would have for its approval at its next meeting a  draft prepared by the Secretariat on the basis of  the proposal made by the delegate of the United  States of America.  The meeting rose at 5 p.m.