GENERAL COMMITTEE I-4  the Adniinistrative Tribunal was competent to  consider complaints about the action of the Director-  General of Unesco, Thé ILO Tribunal had thus  received the support of a high international authority,  He therefore proposéd, not on procedural but on  moral grounds, that the delegates! right to speak on  the question should not be curtailed in any way, He  personally was in favour of the reinstatement of the  four staff members mentioned in the opinion of the  International Court, who had been wrongly dismissed  by the Director-General,
(33) The DIRECTOR- -GENÉRAL sald he had not  suggested that the Conference should refrain from  discussing whether his action had been right or wrong,  but pointed out that there was at present no such  point on its agenda, The matter was "res judicata"  and the Conference could hardly reopen it. What it  could do was to condemn the Director-General's  action, and Mr, Kemenov was perfectly free to make  a motion in that matter, The Board had not requested  the reinstatement of the staff members concerned and  it was not true that he had recommendéd a widening  of his powers to dismiss members of the staff -  besides, in the cases in point, {t had not been a  matter of dismissal but of non-renewal of contracts.  What he had said was that, if the Board did not  accept the continuation of his power to decide in his  discretion whether to renew contracts when they  expired, he would feel compelled to ask the General  Conference to amend the Staff Regulations so as to  remove cases of the non-renewal of contracts from  the jurisdiction of appeals machinery external to the  Organization, The Director-General had no objection  to the Board's considering the future measures to be  FOURTH     taken, but at-the moment the Board had not completed  its discussion on the matter. In his opinion, it would  be irregular for the Conference to consider the matter  at that time,
(23) Mr, MUDALIAR (Chairman of the Executive  Board) stated that, when the question was before the  Board, many views had been expressed, The decisions  of the Administrative Tribunal and of the International  Court of Justice had been carefully éxamined ahd, -  after hearing the Diréctor-General, the Board had  decided to authorize him to pay the awards granted  by the Administrative Tribunal, The reply of the  Director-General to questions asked by certain’  members regarding the ways of preventing future  difficulties of a similar nature had resulted in further  discussion, Thé Board had finally decided that a  thorough study of thé whole matter should be made  after the Director-General's statement had been  circulated, The Chairman added that the decision of  the Board would be made known to the Conference.
(24) The CHAIRMAN admitted that the concern  expressed by the Soviet delegate with regard to the  defence of human rights was justified, He thought,  however, that Mr. Kemenoy had no reason to be  alarmed, since the current procedure safeguarded  the rights of the officials concerned. He did not  think that the Gencral Committee should embark on  a debate on the question, although the discussion of  the problem might be continued on another occasion,  With the Committee's agreement, he proposed to  suspend the discussion,  The meeting rose at 10.30 a. m,  MEETING
15 November 1956, at 9 a.m,  Chairman: Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  COMMUNICATIONS RECEIVED BY THE GENERAL COMMITTEE  (l) The CHAIRMAN opened thé meeting and asked  the members of the General Committee whether they  had any comments to make on the communications  circulated to them.
(2) Mr. LAPIE observed that the communications  could be clasaified in two distinct categories:  - (1) political and
(3) cultural '  Be einphasized that thé United Nations was the  proper body to deal with questions in the first  category, and opposed thé reference of such questions  to the General Conference,  So far as cultural questions were concerned, the  French delegation was, of course, quité prépared to  have them discussed by thé General Conference.
(3) Mr. PARRA-PEREZ agreed with the delegate of  France; although Unesco was undoubtedly a sovereign  body, he thought that several of the communications  before the General Committee were political in  character and should be referred to the United  Nations.
(4) Mr. ARROYO wished to add a third ‘category to  the two defined by the French delegate, to cover  humanitarian quéstions. Although it was difficult  to make a clear-cut distinction between political,  humanitarian and cultural questions, he did not think  that Unesco should take up questions which were not  within its proper field.
(5) Mr, MALLEA agreed with the representatives ot  Venezuela and Ecuador, taking the view that political  problems should not be discussed.   m-4 GENERAL OCOMNMITTER
(6) Mr, DAVIES agreed, ao hs considered that the  United Nations was the only organization competent to  deal with such matters, The Conference had a very  heavy programme before it and it would be better to  transmit the communications in question to the United  Nations, without comment,
(7) Mr. von TRUTZSCHLER concurred.
(8) The CHAIRMAN proposed that consideration be -  given to the suggestion of the Chairman of the  Administrative Commission that the communications  in question be referred, en bloc, to the United  Nations,
(8) Mr, MASSAQUOI thought it would be well to  discuss the justification for some of the communica-  tions, particularly that contained in document 9C/  BUR/PROV/8,. which concerned the application of a  Convention drawn up by the Organization and adopted  by the Member States, - -  The two other communications submitted by the  Rector of the University of Alexandriz and by  Egyptian teachers of English were both humanitarian  and political in character; humanitarian considerations  would inevitably lead the Organization on to action in  the political field - which was precisely what it should  avoid,
(10) The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Committee  consider documents 9C/BUR/PROV/1, 2, 3, 4, 6 and
7, taking separately documents 9C/BUR/PROV/8 and
9 and document 9C/BUR/PROV/10, which related to  a communication from the United Nations.
(11) Mr, KAHUDA suggested that the draft resolution  proposed by Czechoslovakia and Bulgaria, on the  subject of the aggression against Egypt which had  shocked public opinion throughout the world, be  discussed separately, That aggression was to be  regarded as a threat to peaceful and friendly co-  operation among the peoples, who looked to Unesco  for an expression of opinion. The United Nations had  already taken steps to restore Egypt's sovereignty.  The aggression in question was an obvious threat,  which should be removed with an honest determina-  tion to work in a friendly atmosphere, Mr, Kahuda  had the greatest respect for French culture but he  deplored the aggression of which Egypt had been the  victim, and considered that the world as a whole  should afford that country assistance,
(12) The CHAIRMAN considered that ‘document sc/  DR/69 fell within the first category of resolutions,  namely political.
(13) Mr. MASSAQUOI dréw the General Committee's  attention to resolution 9C/ BUR/PROV/9, which did  not appear to fall into the same category, being  merely a proposal, -  | (14) The CHAIRMAN ans: rered that document 9C/BUR/  PROV/9 would be dealt th separately,
(15) Mr, ARROYO did not agree with the suggestion  made by the. Chairman of the Administrative Commis-  sion; he did not think that the Organization should    .  transmit such communications to the United Nations  but felt that it should metely acknowledge receipt, :  That procedure should be followed, in particular, in  dealing with the communications bearing the references
9C/BUR/PROY/6 and 7 and 9C/DR/ 69.
(16) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the first four  communications should be included in the same  category,
(17) Mr. ARROYO considered that documeni :9C/DR/
89 and the two telegrams received from Egypt should  not be forwarded.
(18) Mr, DAVIES considered that the first thing for  the General Committee to decide was whether  :;  political proposals should be included in the Confer-  ence's agenda, before examining them individually.
(19) The CHAIRMAN suggested that the proposals be  considered in numerical order, according to their  reference, and asked the Secretary to read out the  first communication, from the League of Arab  States.
(20) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) read out the  telegram which stated that the League would not be  represented at the session of the General Conference  and called for the condemnation of the aggressors,
(21) The CHAIRMAN mentioned that three possible  courses were open to the Committee; it could;
(1) take note of the communication;
(2) transmit it to the United Nations;
(3) trunsmit it to the General Conference,
(22) Mr. LAPIE pointed out that the telegram merely  drew the Organization's attention to the position of the  Arab League but did not call for any specific action;  the communication therefore could not be regarded as  a resolution,
(23) Mr. DAVIES was prepared to support the delegate  of Ecuador.
(24) Mr. KABIR thought it undesirable that the  Committee's attitude should be dictated by considera-  tions of procedure. It had been suggested that the  Organization should merely take note of the communica:  tions recéived,. but some of them, such as numbers 3 .  and 4, called for specific measures, Political questions  were not within Unesco's puryiew but the Organitation  had to také account of the repercussions, of political .  questions; 1t was ‘right for Unesco to take note of the  communications addressed té it but it was also itp  duty to make known its reactions to those communiéa-  tions and, by so doing, it might well improve the ;  general situation, There vas. wo, question of acting on  certain demands for expulsion, which would destroy  any chance of reconciliation and would do nothing to  advance the search for a solution. Unesco should: :  express its opinion, in general terms, upon the  commubications addressed. to it, without going into.  details; any aggression was to be deplored, whoever  the aggressors might be, and the latter should be -  asked to remedy the ill they had done; . 2  Current events had done great harm to the   GENERAL  Organization; moreover, the General Committee had  been convened too late, and Mr, Kabir proposed that,  after the general discussion, the question should be  taken up again on the following day and the next  after that,
(35) Mr. PARRA-PEREZ did'not agree with the  delegate of India; he felt that any expression of  opinion would merely add to the tension and anxiety  already felt. He proposed that the Committee merely  take note of the political communications bearing the  references 9C/BUR/PROV/1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7,  and 9C/DR/68, and acknowledge their receipt.
(26) Mr, ALLYN did not agree with the Indian delegate,  The general feeling in the Committee seamed to be  that political questions were not for Unesco but for  the United Nations to deal with and, on that point, Mr.  Allyn was in agreement with the Chairman of the  Headquarters Committee,
(27) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the Indian  delegate!'s proposal was seconded,
(28) Mr..KEMENOV seconded the Indian proposal and  endorsed what Mr, Kahuda had said; he did not think  that political communications should be transmitted  to thé United Nations; the General Conference should  consider them itself; if it refused the Conference the  opportunity to do so, the General Committee would,  in fact, be taking a decision on their substance. The  delegates of Liberia and Ecuador had emphasized the  difficulty of drawing a clear-cut line of demarcation  between political and cultural matters, and the  Crechoslovak resolution referred to cultural treasures  which the Organization could not disregard.  Mr, Kemenov agreed with the delegate of India,  feeling that the Conference should have an opportunity  of expressing its views, as it was obliged to do, on  an act of aggresaion which was imperilling cultural  tressures, and that the Organization should not evade  the responsibilities falling to it.  The Organization should not concern itself only  with the defence of spiritual values and the protection  of monuments and works of art; though that too was  important. It should voice a protest against the  aggression in Egypt, involving the loss of many  thousands of human lives and so constituting a serious  blow to culture. It was the duty of the Conference,  “ therefore, to state its views on that problem as a  whole, and to take a correct stand, Mr. Kemenov  also suggested that the General Committee's respon-  - sibilities towards the General Conference be  clarified,
(39) Mr, KABIR reminded the meeting that, at - ‘  Montevideo, certain difficult questions had been i  solved after lengthy conversations; he instanced the  caé® of the resolutions proposed by the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics,” Japsi and India, which  had been the subject of a number of informal meetings,  ‘at which certain compromises had been reached, It  would therefore be foolish to take an immediate  -  “ decision on the communications before the General  Committee,
(30) The CHAIRMAN tock a vote on the question. The  a1  COMMITTEE     Indian delegate's proposal to postpone the final  decision was rejected by 11 votes to 5, with one  abstention,  COMMUNICATION No.1
(31) The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Committee  take note of communication No. 1.
(32) Mr, KEMENOV inquired what were the implica-  tions of the term "to take note of’, The communication  should be brought to the attenticn of the General Con-  ference, and the Gene ral Committee should authorize  the Director-General to circulate it to all delegations,
(33) Mr. ALLYN agreed, providing that the General  Conference was informed that the General Committee  hed merely taken note of the communication,
(34) Mr, KABIR stressed that there was, infact,  nothing to prevent the authors of the communication  from bringing it to the notice of the press and the -  General Conference. He doubted whether the  Committee could bind the Conference by stating that  it had merely taken note of the communication, and  he considered that the Conference was still fully ‘at  liberty to discuss it,
(35) Mr, KEMENOV thought it was not merely a  question of reproducing the communication and  distributing it to delegations, but also of giving the  Conference itself an opportunity of studying the  question and stating its opinion. It was precisely for  that purpose that the communication should be  submitted to the plenary meeting of the Conference.
(36) The CHAIRMAN proposed that communication  No. 1 be not included in the agenda but simply  transmitted, for information, to the General  Conference,
(37) Mr, ALLYN asked the Chairman whether the  Committee was going to vote on the proposal that the  communication be not included in the agenda of the  Conference,
(38) The CHAIRMAN replied in the affirmative,
(39) Mr. KEMENOV said that, as he understood the  position, the General Committee's decision to "take  note of" the communication could not prevent the  Conference from including discussion of the situation  in the Middle East in its agenda.
(40) The CHAIRMAN explained that there was nothing  . to prevent the Conference from taking action once it  had considered the document in question, It was  finally decided to bring the communication to the  notice of the Conference,  COMMUNICATION Not
(41) The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion of communi-  cation No, 2, received from Jordan, which suggested  excluding those responsible for the tiggression against   nm-4 GENERAL COMMITTEE  Egypt from the Organisation; and asked whether that  question should be included in the Conference's agenda  or whether the Committee should take note of the  communication and transmit it to the Conference,
(42) Mr, KEMENOV felt that, if the necessary time  were taken, it would be possible to find a form of  words which would avoid advérsé effects on the  atmosphere in which the work was proceeding,  Jordan's attitude on the principle was of some  interest; the second part of the communication  required careful study and consideration,
(43) The CHAIRMAN reminded the delegate of the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics that the General  Committee had decided to consider the communica-  tions which had been submitted to it immediately.  The General Committee was not, in any case,  competent to recommend the expulsion of certain  Member States,
(44) It was décided by 13 votes in favour, with 5  abstentions, that the question should not be included  in the Conference's agenda, and that the communica-  tion should be transmitted to the General Conference  by the same procedure as had been adopted for the  first communication,
(45) Mr, KEMENOV wished to explain why he had  abstained, He thought that the two parts of the  communication should have been discussed separately;  as the two points had been taken together, he had  been unable to vote on the question,
(46) The CHAIRMAN pointed out to Mr. Kemenov that  members of thé'Committee could ask for a separate  vote if they so desired.
(47) Mr. LAPIE thought that, when the communica-  tion was referred to the General Conference, it  would be necessary to add a note stating that the  expulsion of Member States was not a matter for  consideration by the Conference,
(48) The CHAIRMAN asked the General Committee  whether any member saw any objection to adding to  the communication a reference to the relevant  Article of the Constitution.
(49) Mr. KEMENOV did not think that the General  Committee should rush through such questions; it  should think them over carefully and so help the  Conference to avoid lengthy debates,
(50) The CHAIRMAN mentiuvned that the documents  being discussed had been circulated to delegations -  two days previously, and asked the members of the  Committee whether they approved the proposal  submitted by the French delegate, -
(51) Mr, KABIR said he would abstain in any later  voting and felt that the communications in question  would give rise to serious controversy in the  Conference,
(52) The CHAIRMAN put the question to the vote, and  the French proposal was adopted by 11 votes in favour,  with 2 abstentions.
(53) The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on  communication No, 3, from the World Union of  Catholic Philosophical Societies, a non-governmental  organization, and inquired whether that communica-  tion should be included in the Conference's agenda,
(54) Mr, KEMENOY did not think it possible to take  a vote immediately; members of the Committee  should be given an’ opportunity of expressing their  views.  He did not think the document was in'any way  connected with the work of the Conference; nor was  there any connexion between events in Hungary and  events in Egypt. The events in Hungary were an  internal matter concerning that country only, and had  been settled by the Hungarian Government itself,  Unesco, as an international organization, had no  right to interfere in the domestic affairs of its Member  States, and for Unésco to éxpress sympathy with  attempts to interfere in the internal affairs of Hungary  with a view to changing the régime, or to show  sympathy towards the opponents of the existing  régime would be doubly inadmissible, There was  therefore no reason to include that question in the  General Conference's agenda.
(55) The CHAIRMAN mentioned that a request froma  non-governmental organization for the inclusion of an  item in the Conference's agenda was not receivable,  The only point to be decided was therefore whether the  communication should be referred to the General  Conference for its information,
(56) Reference of the communication to the Conference  was approved by 12 votes to 2, with 2 abstentions.
(57) Mr. PARRA-PEREZ explained that he had voted  as he nad in the last vote because he felt that all the  Committee should do was to take note of the communica  tion.  COMMUNICATION No. 4 -
(58) The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on  communication No. 4, from a non-governmental  organization, Pax Romana. The only course open was  to transmit the communication to the General Confér-  ence,
(59) Mr. KEMENOV considered that the telegram was  unacceptable, The General Committee's decisions -  were, being taken too hastily and the contents of the  communication from Pax Romana were at variance  with the facts.  He was strongly opposed to the idea ot circulating  the document to delegations, as such a step would .  mean interference in the domestic affairs of Hungary.
(60) Mr. MATSUI remarked that the General Commit-  tee was embarking on the discussion of a political  matter. He suggested that the Committee might pass  .on to the discussion of the other communications.
(61) The CHAIRMAN recalled that it had ‘been  decided to discuss each document separately, arid   GENERAL  took a vote on the proposal that communication No,
4 be transmitted to the Conference, The proposal  was approved by 12 votes to 2, with 2 abstentlons,
(62) Mr. KAHUDA explained his last vote; he  considered that transmission of communication No,
4 to the Conference would have a detrimental effect  on its work,
(63) The CHAIRMAN mentioned that the Organization  concerned was a non-goverrmental organization.
(64) Mr. KEMENOV considered that the question was  not whether the sender was a governmental or a non-  governmental organization: it was not right to  compare the intervention in Egypt with the events in  Hungary, since the two questions were totally  different.  COMMUNICATION No.6
(65) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on the tele-  gram from the Rector of the University of Alexandria  and pointed out that the latter had no power to ask  for an item to be added to the agenda of the Conference,
(68) The General Committee decided by 15 votes in  favour, with 1 abstention, to transmit the document  to the General Conference.  COMMUNICATION No. 7
(67) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on communica-  tion No. 7, reproducing a telegram from Egyptian  teachers of English, and asked whether the General  Committee wished to take note of it and refer it to  the Conference,
(68) Mr, LAPIE explained his last vote; he considered  that, while the Conference should normally examine  such communications, it was undesirable for it to  discuss them at length, since the United Nations  was the only body competent in the matter.
(69) Mr. MASSAQUOI stressed that the Chairman  had settled the question of principle and that the  General Committee was not required to take any  political decision, .
(19) The proposal to refer communication No, 7 to  the Conference was approved by 15 voles, with 1  abstention,  DOCUMENT 8C/DR/69
(71) Tlie CHAIRMAN opened discussion « on document
8C/DR/69, a draft resolution submitted by Bulgaria  and Czechoslovakia, and asked whether the item  should be included in the Conference's ‘agenda,
(12) Mr,’ KEMENOV did not think ‘that the  General Committee could refuse any "Member _  Staté the right to propose the addition.of a  COMMITTEE    supplementary item to the agenda; only the
293  m-4  Conference was competent to decide on that point,
(73) The CHAIRMAN asked the opinion of the Legal  Adviser,
(74) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) mentioned that, in  the past, certain resolutions relating to peace had  been included among the general resolutions without  the addition of an item to the agenda, Supplementary  items were covered by Rule 14 of the Conference's  Rules of Procedure and any new item of an urgent  character could be included in the agenda, on the  report of the General Committee, by a two-thirds  majority decision of the Conference,
(75) Mr. ALLYN was also concerned about the  question of procedure; he thought that the General  Committee should point out to the Conference that  the draft resolution was political in character,
(76) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the General  Committee was at liberty to recommend the addition  of the item to the Conference's agenda, or to refrain  from doing so.
(77) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) explained the  questions that the General Committee might have to  consider:
(1) could the draft resolution be inserted in the  existing agenda? -
(2) if not, the General Committee might make  either a negative or an affirmative recommend-  ation to the Conference, which might then take a  decision by a two-thirds majority. .  Mr, Saba read out the relevant provision of the  Rules of Procedure,
(78) The CHAIRMAN did not think that the ‘draft  resolution came under any of the items appearing on  the Conference's agenda, It therefore had to be  decided in what form the General Committee was to  transmit thé proposal to the General Conference,  which would have tô take the final decision. ‘  He added that, from the wording of the draft,  there was no formal request for the addition of ar.  item to the agenda; he proposed to put the questtin  to the vote.
(79) Mr, LAPIE mentioned that, under the térms of  Rule 14, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure, the  General Committee was required to report to the  General Conference on the inclusion or non-inclusion  of any new item in the agenda.
(80) The CHAIRMAN confirmed that document 9C/  DR/ 69 could not be dealt with'under any of the items  on the Conference's agenda, and that the General  Committee had to make an affirmative or negative  recommendation to the Conference.
(81) The proposal to insert the item in the agenda .  was rejected by 11 votes to 2, with 3 abstentions,  It was decided to transmit the document, for action,  to the General Conference,
(82) Mr. KABIR explained that after that vote, the  Conference would still be able to take a decision   TI-4  on whether or not to include the item in its agenda.  {83) The CRAIRMAN confirmed that thé final  decision would rust with the Conference,
(84) Mr, LAPIE asked whether the General Commit -  tee's report would include details of the result of the  voling, and whether the result would be accompanied  by comments, ‘
(85) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) said that there  were no precedents in the proceedings of earlier  sessions, except with regar j to a few items relating  to technical and financial questions,
(86) The CHAIRMAN said he would present the  General Committee's report to the Conference and  could, if necessary, refer to the summary record  of the meeting to clarify certain points of detail,
(87) Mr. ALLYN asked for deiails of the voting to  be included in the report,  COMMUNICATION No.8
(88) The CHAIRMAN agreed, and proposed that the  Committee turn to itera No, 8 - a communication  from the delegate of Egypt, He asked whether  members had any comments to make on the substance  of the communication,
(89) Mr. MASSAQUOI mentionèd that a Convention  on the protection of monuments and works of art in  time of war had been drawn up by Unesco; the  question raised in the communication was therefore  within the Organization's field and the General  Committee should take some practical action.
(90) Mr. LAPIE pointed out that ‘the. last paragraph  but one of the communication referred, by name,  to one of the Organization's Member States, He  considered, however, that the problem raised in  the document was within Unesco' s competence, and  referred to the precautions taken by his Government;  he made & formal request for the addition of the {tem  to the Conference's agenda.
(61) The French proposal was unanimously adopted,  COMMUNICATION Ne.9
(92) Mrs. MYRDAL thought that the questions covered  by the communication were matters for consideration  by the Programme Commission and could be linked  up with resolution 3, 62,
(93) The CHAIRMAN reminded the Committee that  the communication had séime from the Polish  delegation, aid suggested that Mrs. Myrdal's pro-  posal be accepted,  Agreed,
204  GENERAL COUhRITTEE  COMMUNAL. TION No. 10
(094) The CHAIRMAN submitted communication No,
10, from the United Nations, to the Committee.
(95) Mv, MAREU (Unesco Representative at the  United Nations) had been asked by the Director-'  General to give the General Committee some details  about the communication, -  In the first place, the Director-General had'noi ‘  yet received the letter of 10 Novemb'tr méntioned on  page 2 of the document, but he had recived certain  ançuments relating to the first aiid third resolutions,  ‘He then drew attention to thé main pdints in Mr,  Hill's communication, In thé first paragraph, the -  Secretary-General of the United Nations dréw the  attention of the Specialized Agenciés to the needs of  the Hungarian pe ople for food, medicine and other’  "similar supplies”, That was apparently to be  interpreted as needs which could be met by supplies,  The Director-General had not, at the moment, the -  necessary information to-assess the extent of such  needs, within the fields for which Unesco was  responsible, among the Hungarian population,  The second paragraph referred to assistance for  the Hungarian people and Hungarian refugees, The  High Commissioner for Refugees was to establish  contact with Unesco on that point but the Director-  General had so far had no communication from him.  The third paragra; h related to a general resolution  on the subject of relief,  Mr, Maheu said that, subject to reconsideration  of the question in the light of any further information  he migiit later receive, the Director-General intended  to int vm the Secretary-General that he was prepared  to assist the United Nations but that he thought it  difficult to contemplate any large-scale practical  contribution from the Organization in the first stage  of the United Nations' relief work, as at present  planned,  In the later stages, the Organization might be able  to take part in the work of the United Nations, by  drawing on the Working Capital Fund with the authoriza-  tion of the Executive Board,  The Director-General wished to know whether the  General Committee approved that attitude for, if it  did not, it would be necessary to submit to the  Conference practical proposals for insertion in the  programme and budget for 1957-1958.
(96) The CHAIRMAN asked the members ol the  Committee whether they had any comments or  suggestions to make, The Director-General's  proposal was adopted,  PROGRESS OF WORK
(97) The CHAIRMAN asked the Secretary to acquaint  the Cominittee with the problems arising in connexion  with the progress of the Conferenée!s work.
(98) Mr, MONTAGNIER (Secretary) stated that the  two main Commissions would continue their  meetings until the afternoon of the tollowing day, as  would the working parties (three meetings on   GENERAL COMMITTEE m-8
18 November and four on 16 November), He added  that provision should be made for a plenary meeting  at the end of the week or the béginning of the following  one,
(99) Mr. KEMENOV proposed that the next plenary  meeting should be hold on the Wednesday morning,  because of the three days' break in the work.  Approved,  {100) The CHAIRMAN proposed that the General  Committee mest on the following Wednesday morn-  ing.
(101) Mrs, MYRDAL reported that the Programme  Commission had held three meetings, apart from -  that at which it had been constituted, The general  discussion had taken longer than had been expected  and the Commission would have to make up the time  lost. Mrs, Myrdal therefore asked, on behalf of the  Programme Commission, that as Rule 78 of the  Rules of Procedure was to be suspended, the time-  limit for the submission of new proposals be brought  forward to 16 November, ‘
(102) Mr, MASSAQUOI asked Mra, Myrdal to  consider the possibility of extending the time-limit.
(103) Mrs. MYRDAL remarked that she was simply  doing what the Commission had asked her to do, She    would check the exact date and inform the persons  concerned,
(104) Mp, DAVIES reported that the Administrative  Commission hid complétéd its consideration of the  financial and budgetary questions and staff questions,  and had still five items of the agénda to discuss.  He suggested that, for the discussion of certain  questions, such as Unesco coupons, the "Courier",  and some matters concerning documents and  publications, a joint meeting of the Programme and  Administrative Commissions be arranged, at the  beginning of the following week,  Agreed,
(105) Mr, Davies proposed that Mrs, Myrdal act as  Chairman of the joint meeting.  {106) Mr: MATSUI announced that the Greek delega-  tion had asked for the adjournment of à question  referred to the Legal Committee, He asked whether  arrangements had been made for a meeting of the  Commitiee on the Friday afternoon.
(107) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) said that the  Legal Committee would meet on 20 November, in  the morning. ’  The meeting rose at 11,45 a.m,  FIFTH MEETING
21 November 1956, at 9.30 a, m,  Chairman: Maulana AZAD (India)  TOHE-LBATS FOR THE PRESENTATION OF PROGRAMME  RESOLUTIONS AND AMENDMENTS
(1) Mr, MONTAGNIER (Secretary) read out para-  graphs 2 and 3 vf Rulé 78 of the Rules of Procedure,  stipulating the time-limits within which new prè-  gramme resolutions or amendments to the Proposed  Programme had to be presented.. He reminded the  Committee that, on 13 November 1956, the General  Couference had decided, at thé request of the  Japansze delegation, to suspend the application of  paragraph 2 of Rulé 78 in order to enable delegations  to present new draft résolutions concerning the  major projects.’ Following that decision, the time-  limit for the présentation of draft resolutions or  amendments had beeïñ set at 18 November and it had  besn agreed that the sane exception should apply to  proposals relating to the annex to document 9C/5  Corrigendum 1, By midnight on:16 November, the  Geweral Committee had received 31 new proposals,  of which 21 related to major projects, 2 to the |  sanex to document 9C/5 Corrigenduim 1, and 8 to other  matters. On 20 November, the Committee had  received 3 other proposals, relating neither to the    major projects nor to the annex to document 9C/5  Corrigendum 1, The new proposals had been  classified in three groups: the first included proposals  relating to the major projects, i.e. documents 9C/  DR/87 to 9C/DR/ 84, 9C/DR/96 to 9C/DR/ 102, 8C/  DR/ 106 to 8C/DR/111; the second group consisted  of propésals relating to the annex to document 9C/5  Corrigendum 1, i.e, documents 9C/DR/85 and 9C/  DR/142; Mr, Montagnier thought that the proposals  in those two groups were admissible and could be  submitted to the Programme Commission for  consideration. - CoN .  The third group contained the proposals bearing  the reference numbers 9C/DR/86, 6C/DR/95, 9C/DR/103,  $C/DR/104, 8C/DR/105;, 8C/DR/113, 5C/DR/114,  #C/DR/115, 9C/DR/116, 9C/DR/117 and 8C/DR/118,  . which related neither to the major projects nor to  the annex to document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1 and  therefore should not benefit from the suspension of  Rule 78, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure.
(3) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO asked whether  any of the proposals had budgetary implications and,  it so, what would be their approximate amount.