X-4  reports of Member States and suggesting how the  execution of the programms resolutions could be  promoted in each country. The delegate of France  suggested that possible methods would be to improve  the presentation of the programme, and to have the  Director-General suggest certain kinds of activities  to Member States,  Mr, Brunsvick wished to know whether the  Committee agreed that the positive aspects of the work  done by Member States, showing their efforts to  establish healthy international collaboration, should  be stressed under ‘Education’ in the report.
(25) The Rapporteur's proposal was adopted  unanimously.
(26) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  did not wish the Committee to substitute itself for the  Programme Commission, but he felt that, in view of  the weakreas of the reports, it should point out to  the Commission that the Eastern and Western cultures  project afforded an excéllent opportunity for the  advancement of the work covered by section B,II.1.4   of the document.  FOURTH  COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES  Chapter 2 - Natural Sciences
(27) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  suggested starting with section 2 of that chapter  (Contribution to Scientific Research), which most  Member States' reports dealt with very fully.
(28) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) thought it would be  better for :3e Committee to discuss section 3, dealing  with the teaching and dissemination of acience, in  order to evaluate the results achieved in that field.
(29) Mr, McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  accepted thé French delegate's proposal to start the  discussion with section 3 of chapter 2.
(30) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) thought it well to mention the importance of  the part taken by Member States in scientific research,
(31) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  proposed that the meeting adjourn end take up the mat-  ter an the first item of the morning's business.  The meeting rose at 5.50 p.m,  MEETING
1 November 1956, at 10,30 a.m,  Chairman: Mr. ZIEGLER (Austria)  ITEM 17.1 OF THE AGFNLA: CONSIDERATION OF REPORTS  PRESENTED BY MEMBFR STATES FOR THE YEARS 1954 AND
1933 AND OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL'S STUDY GF THOSE  REPORTS (continued) (documents 9C/4 and Annexes I, Il and DT)
(1) The CHAIRMAN announced that examination of  document 9C/4, Annex IL - Analysis of and  Observations on Reports of Member States - would  continue.  Chapter 2 - Natural Sciences (continued)
2. Contribution to Scientific Research
(2) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said his  Government found the section particularly interesting,  since the extent of the response of Member States was  indicative of their active interest in Unesco's work  in the field of scientific research. Many Member  States recognized the relationship between the dave-  lopment of scientific research and their educational  and technical problems. He had also noted the  interest shown by a large number of European  countries in the promotion of scientific research in  those areas in which such research had not previously  been greatly developed, and in projects for international
720     co-operation in scientific research, He felt that the  Committee should draw the attention of the  Programme Commission to the considerable interest  shown in that section of the natural sciences  programme.
(3) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) said that, on rereading  the parts of the reports of Member States dealing with  scientific research, he had gained the impression that  most Member States were more interested in the  problem of equipment than in missions of experts.  He felt, therefore, thet the Committee's recommenda-  tions should lay special emphasis on the need for  adequate equipment.
(4) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) had the impression that a number of Member  States had stressed the usefulness of equipment,  without however contrasting its value with that of  experts; the suggestion had rather been that the  sending of experts could not produce good resulte  unless there were also suitable equipment.
(5) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) agreed with Mr.  Maheu's interpretation, He felt that the point to be  made was that the question of equipment should not be   COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF  neglected if the best use were to be made of the funds  allocated to expert missions.  He drew attention to the interest shown by Member  States in the main features of the natural sciences  programme, such as arid zone research and the  peaceful uses of atomic energy. That appeared to be  an argument in favour of concentration of programmes.
3. Teaching and Dissemination of Science
(6) The CHAIRMAN drew attention to the fact that no  mention was made of the contribution of Latin America  to that project. If no reports had been received from  the Member States in that area, he felt it would be  better to say 80, sather than to give the impression,  by omission, that Latin America had been cverlooked  for one reason or ancther,
(7) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) said that Latin America had been overlooked  neither in the programme, nor in the activities of the  Secretariat. It was, he thought, simply a question of  a gap in the reports from that region - a gap which  was, admittedly, regrettable,
(8) Mr. LEE (United States of America) agreed that  the existing system of reporting by Member States  was inadequate, It was obvious that Member States  were co-operating with Unesco to a greater extent  than was evident from their reports, and he wondered  whether it might not be useful, in future years, to  consider those reports in conjunction with the report  of the Director-General,
(8) The CHAIRMAN supported that view, and suggested  that the Director-Genersl might be able to complete  the reports on activities submitted by Member States  by means of addenda or footnotes.
(10) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) said that the Secretariat, being unwilling to  exceed its powers, had deliberately refrained from  making any addition whatsoever to the reports of  Member States. If, however, the General Conference  should request it, in future, to supplement the reports  with additional information, it would do so willingly.
(11) The CHAIRMAN had been impressed by the  original and useful service organized by the French  Society of Scientific Writers, whereby journalists  were able to check by telephone on any acientific  information they proposed to publish (paragraph 94  of document 8C/4, Annex Il.) Such a service should  do much to improve journalistic standards, and the  attention of the Programme Commission might be  drawn to it.
(12) Mr, UNAKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) had listened with deep interest to the  comments on that part of the programme, which  was, he thought, a particularly important one.  In his view, the difficulties pointed out by the  various speakers, and the gaps in the reports,  were due to the fact that the instructions  regarding the form of the reports were not  sufficiently detailed, It would in future be advisable,  he thought, to send Member States fuller instructions,
121  MEMBER STATZS X-4  so that such gaps in their reports could be avoided.  On the other hand, the Soviet delegate was pleased  to note that Member States appeared to attach great  importance to visits and conferences by scholars and  experts, Particular attention should, in his opinion,  be paid to that method of spreading scientific  information.
(13) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) fully agreed. Member  States mentioned not only conferences, but also  trenslations. Trans'stions were evidence of the  interest a particular problem was capable of arousing,  Scientific exhibitions had also been well received  wherever they had been arranged.  The dissemination of science did not appear in the  proposed programme for 1057-1958 - an omission  which could not be allowed to pass without comment.  Several Member States mentioned alterations which  had been made in their scientific training programmes,  thereby bearing testimony to the value of Unesco’  activities in that field.
(14) Mr. LEE (United States of America) supported  the remarks of the French delegate, The problem of  staff requirements and the continuation of Unesco's  activities in the field of the teaching and dissemination  of science would obviously have to be debated by the  Programme Commission, but the Committee might  well draw attention to the degree of interest in that  part of the Organization's programme that had been  shown by Member States, and stress the important  relationship between headquarters action and activities  in the field.
(15) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) felt that the question  of regional Science Co-¢peration Offices could not be  neglected. The reports of Member States showed that  the offices had undertaken a certain number of acti-  vities, but they seemed to be rather patchy. He would  be interested to know whether science specialists  considered that the regional Science Co-operation  Offices were still concerning themselves with all the  sciences, and he wondered whether the General  Conference should not lay down the bread lines of the  Offices' activities.
(16) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) admitted that the French representative's  remarks were justified, He pointed out, however,  that the reports of Member States actually dealt with  the execution of the 1953-1954 and 1955-1956  programmes. During the first period, the Cffices,  which had been designed to serve as general liaison  bodies, had worked où a somewhat empirical basis,  but they had been assigned different functions in
1955-1956 and had become essentially bodies for  carrying out the Unesco programme, The 1953-1854  period was, then, a thing of the pest; a new develop-  ment had started in 1955, and the results of that had  become discernible mainly in 1856.  Chapter 3 - Social Sciences
(17) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) suggeated that, in that chapter, section 3 be   X-4  given closer consideration than section 4. The latter  was probably more important, but the picture of the  situation emerging from the reports of Member  States was no longer correct as the programme had  reached a more advanced stage in that field.
(18) Mr, LEE (United States of America) agreed  that, in view of the interest shown by Member States  in the development of teaching of the social sciences,  the Committee should examine that part of the social  sciences programme and draw the attention of the  Programme Commission to any activities or  experiences in that field which it felt to be of special  interest.
(19) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) supported the prop-  osal, subject to its being amended to permit delegates  to make à few comments on section 4.  Approved.
3. Development of Teaching of the Social Sciences
(20) Mr, LEE (United States of America) said that  study of the aid requested by Member States under  the Participation programme, outlined in the report  of the Director-General, showed the wide interest  felt in the development of social science research,  especially with respect to such problems as the  adaption of immigrants, the causes of conflict and  tension, and the difficulties created by rapid indus-  trialization. There was in many areas an acute  shortage of trained social scientists, however; and a  large number of Member States recognized the  necessity for training more experts in that field.  Some efforts in that direction were already being  made and, for the first time, the United Nations was  to allocate funds for the development of social  sciences under its Expanded Programme of  Technical Assistance, The interest aroused by  Unesco's activities in that field should certainly be  br aught to the attention of the Programme Commission.
(21) Mr, UNAKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) stressed the importance of the question of  social science teaching. Unesco had some experience  in that field, ard a conference of jurists and econo-  mists, recently convened under the Organization's  suspices, had examined a number of problems  pertaining thereto. One of the main problems was  that of peaceful coexistence, The Soviet delegate  thought it important to emphasize the usefulness of  conferences of that kind, which would serve to bring  together specialists in various branches of the social  sciences with a view to reaching general agreement  on various problems, and help to promote co-  operation between scientists, teachers and students  in the Member States of Unesco.
(22) The CHAIRMAN felt that attention should also  be drawn to the action of thé Spanish Government in  passing à law to develop possibilities of employment  for holders of degrees in the social sciences {para-  graph 122 of document 9C/4, Annex III), It was his  own experience that, in some countries, persons  possessing a degree in the social sciences had  considerable difficulty in finding employment in
722  COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES  which their knowledge would be of use, He suggested  that, in future questionnaires, Member States should  be asked to indicate what opportunities were offered  to graduate social scientists to make use of the  knowledge they had acquired,
(23) Mr. de LACHARRIERE (Deputy Director,  Department of Social Sciences) explained, in  connexion with peragraph 122, that the Department  of Social Sciences had investigated the question of  the employment opportunities for holders of degrees  in the soclal sciences, and would be publishing the  results of its investigation in the near future.
4. Application of the Social Sciences to  Present-Day Problems
(24) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) remarked that the  reports of Member States showed that there was a  very lively interest in the study of present-day  problems, such as racial discrimination, sclentitic  co-operation between the nations, demographic  problems and the land question - all of them matters  of immediate importance, for which no solution had  yet been found.  Two points might be made: in the first place,  those problems, immense and diverse as they were,  aroused an interest among Member States which was  causing the Department of Social Sciences to disperse  its activities; secondly, the budget of the Department  was not commensurate with the interest thus shown.  It appeared from the proposed programme and budget  that the new programme involved an increase of  $1,000,000 for all projects; the budget of the  Department of Education was being increased by  $270,000, that of the Department of Natural Sciences  by $70,000, or 3 per cent, and that of the Department  of Cultural Activities by about $60,000, or 4 per cent,  whereas the budget of the Department of Social  Sciences was being cut by $80,000 - or 6 per cent,  To restore the balance somewhat; the attention of  the Confereace should perhaps be drawn to the  desirability of associating the Department of Social  Sciences with the implementation of the major -  project on "Mutual Appreciation of Eastern and  Western Cultural Values”. The problem should be  studied from a social as well as from a cultural  point of view, and the best results might perhaps be  obtained by dealing with it under the heading of the  social sciences; study of community life helped to  pinpoint individual characteristics. Accordingly he  wondered whether it would not be helpful to suggest  to the Conference that the Department of Social  Sciences be allocated a certain number of functions  in connexion with that major project.
(25) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) felt it his duty tô counsel a very cautious  approach, especially in budgetary matters, which  were the province of the Programme Commission.  He did not think that the French representative's  proposal needed to rely on budgetary considérations  for its justification. It was sufficient to stress the  contribution that the social sciences could make to  the major project in question.  On the subject of the application of the social  sciences to present-day problems, a rather carefully   COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES  discriminating éxpression of opinion was called for.  Member States did not evince an equal interest in  applying them to all such problems; only a limited  number of countries had, for example, shown an  interest in Unesco's help in connexion with the  problem of land reform,  With regard to the budgetary balance that  Mr. Brunsvick wished to see established between the  various Departments, Mr. Maheu did not think it was  unreasonable for a Department to suffer a cut for a  while, provided the possibility of its expanding again  later were not excluded,
(26) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) said that he had not  wanted to introduce budgetary considerations into the  Committee's report; he had merely wished to draw  the Conference's attention to the interest which  certain problems aroused in Member States, He  therefore accepted Mr, Maheu's suggestions.  He wondered whether Mr. de Lacharrière thought  the Department of Social Sciences should continue  the apparent dispersal of its activities, or should  concentrate its programme on a few main themes.
(27) Mr. de LACHARRIERE (Deputy Director,  Department of Social Sciences) said that concentration,  in his Department, had to be considered in two distinct  phases: 1954-1955 and 1956-1957, It was true that,  during the former. period, the programme had not  shown evidence of a high degrée of concentration, but  the Department had made efforts in that direction.  In the cage of the projects for the latter period, the  goal appeared to have been achieved, The three  main themes were: first, activities in the field of  peaceful co-operation; “second, continuation of a  certain mumber of activities relating to human rights  and interracial relations; third, the social aspects of  economic development and industrislization. The  programme for 1957-1658 had been organized around  those three main themes, It was already becoming  apparent, however, that the concentration would be  difficult to maintain, because the dropping of certain  projects, such as the one concerning the political  rights of women, had given rise to criticism.  It was not thé case that all present-day problems  aroused the same interest in Member States, The  latter did not, generally spesking, want Unesco  missions to visit them and study their special  problems and social conditions. What States, or  groupe of States, were asking for was the creation of  permanent bodies for scientific research and the  training of specialists. The Middle Eastern countries  had repeatedly asked for assistance with a view to the  establishment of à social scierice institute in their  region; Latin America had asked for the establish-  ment of a social science research centre in Brazil;  ard an institute had been set up in Calcutta with  Unysco's assistance.
(28) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) appreciated Mr. de  Lacharrière's explanations. Statements of that kind  would be most useful to the Committee in helping to  correct the sometimes erroneous impressions that  might be obtained from a reading of the reports of  Member States. He hoped that all heads of Depart-  ments might be called upon, where necessary, to fill  out in that way the picture given by the reports.
(29) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) said that the Directors of Departments  would gladly give the Committee any information its  members might desire. The additional information  provided by Mr. de Lacharrière did not, he pointed  out, appear in the reports; he approved the suggestions  which had been made for helping Member States, in  future, to draw up their reports.
(30) The CHAIRMAN supported the suggestion that  future questionnaires should be so worded as to  obtain detailed information concerning specific  activities,
(31) Mr. LEE (United States of America) agreed that  the questionnaire should be prepared so as to elicit  detailed information on specific points, although it  might not be necessary to publish all the information  received. The current discussion appeared to be  achieving useful results, and members could perhaps  bear the general problem in mind and make further  recommendations at the end of their debate.
(32) There being no further comment, the CHAIRMAN  closed the discussion on Chapter 3.  Chapter 4 - Cultural Activities
(33) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said he  would agree with the suggestion made previously by  the representative of the Director-General that the  Committee might be particularly interested in that  part of the Cultural Activities programme relating to  Culture and International Understanding, The  Programme Commission might well ask the Commit-  tee what interest had been shown in that project by  Member States, and what facilities and resources  they possessed to assist in its implementation. He  therefore proposed that the section dealing with  Culture and International Understanding be selected  for close examination by the Committee.
(34) That proposal was seconded by Mr. BRUNSVICK  (France) and adopted unanimously. °
4. Culture and International Underctanding
(35) At the request of Mr. LEE (United States of  America), Mr. KIRPAL (Acting Director, Department  of Cultural Activities) explained that the information  given in the reports of Member States concerning  their activities in connexion with that project was far  from complete. The project formed a most important  part of the programme of his Department and much  activity was being carried out in many fields, in co-  operation with Member States, He felt he should draw  particular attention to the fact that a number of useful  activities in that field were also being undertaken by  certain of the non-governmental organizations  associated with Unesco, but unfortunately national  governments and National Commissions were  unaware of those activities and did not report  on them. There was obviously insufficient  contact between governments and the non-govern-  mental organizations working in association  with Unesco, as well as an absence of complete  information concerning the extent of Member   X-3 COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES  States' participation in the various aspects of  Unesco's programme, -
(36) The CHAIRMAN thanked Mr, tip for his inter-  esting survey, and announced that further discussion  of the item would continue at the afternoon meeting.  The meeting rose at 12.20 p,m  FIFTH MEETING
1 November 1956, at 3,456 p.m,  Chairman:  ITEM 17.1 OF THE AGENDA: CONSIDERATION OF REPORTS  PRESENTED BY MEMBER STATES FOR THE YEARS 1954 AND
1933 AND OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL'S STUDY OF THOSE  REPORTS (continued) (documents 9C/ 4 and Annexes I, 11 snd LI)  Chapter 4 - Cultural Activities (continued)
4. Culture and International Understanding (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN proposed taking up the discussion  of section 4 ot Chapter 4 of document 9C/4 Annex III,  namely "Culture and International Understanding",  He suggested the Committee should finish its work on  the following Friday; its draft repori would be ready  on the Monday evening and could be discussed at the  Tuesday afternoon meeting.
(2) - Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  stressed the great interest shown by many nations in  the Eastern and Western cultures project. Reverting  to some of his earlier remarks, he said that he had  mentioned the translations of great works only as an  illustration of the problems facing Member States in  the execution of Unesco's programme, He questioned’  whether the Programme Commission could draw  heavily onithe Member States‘ reparts to find out  what it shoald recommend. In his opinion, before  in y major project, Unesco should find out  the extent of /jie interest and resources of the Member  States, and a/s0 how they thought the programme  should be img lemented. Unesco should also draw  some distip:tion between the wark done in co-  operation ‘with it and the educational, scientific and  cultural ‘evelopment carried out independently of the  Organization,  o 2 Mr, 'BRUNSVICK (France) remarked that the  same inadequacy was apparent in the section under  discussion, which dealt with international under-  standing, as in the section on internetional under -  standing and co-operation under the heading of  "Education". The main problem was therefore to  help Member States tô give some account in their  reports of their real activities in that field, For  instance, the questionnaires sent out to States could  be improved. But what was required above all was  to draw the General Conference's attention to the
724     Mr, ZIEGLER (Austria)  need for formulating programme resolutions in more  precise terms, as, especially in the case in point,  those resolutions were too brief and did not match  the activities actually being carried out in the  Member States.
(4) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Directar-  General) agreed with the delegate of the United States  of America in hoping that States, in their reports,  would make à distinction between activities that were  directly related to Unesco's programme and those  that were not, but he stressed that States should not,  in any case, omit an account of the second category  of activities, for that would be contrary to the terms  of Article VII of the Constitution.  In reply to Mr, Brunsvick, Mr, Maheu observed  that the brevity of the programme was made up for  by the detailed explanations contained in the work  plan which was sent to Member States in addition to  the text of the resolutions,
(5) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) did not think that the  details given in'the work plan were sufficient, for  they related only to the actual resolutions and  therefore could not fill in gaps in the programme.  Thus an uninstructed observer might believe, on  reading the programme resolutions on culture and  international understanding, that in that field Unesco  was interested only in Esperanto, tax exemptions  and the reproduction of works of art.
(6). The CHAIRMAN said that it could be seen from |  the reports of the Federal Republic of Germany and  of Austria that both thoss countries warmly supported  the East-West cultures project, He thought the  Committee should express its appreciation of the  importance of the project. Referring to paragraph
170 of the document, he suggested that the Committee  should urge other Member States to contribute to the  "Index Translationum",
(7) Mr, KIRPAL (Acting Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) explained that the summary of  the reports sometimes gave a false impression of  what had really been done by the Meinber States.  In point of fact, 48 States had reported on the  "Index Translationum'