16 November 1986, at 3,30 p.m,  Chairman; Mr. DAVIES (Australis)  ITEM 16 OF THE AGENDA : QUESTIONS CONCERNING THE  HEADQUARTERS OF UNESCO, REPORT OF THE HEADQUARTERS  COMMITTEE (continued) (documents 9C/ ADM/20 cod 9C/ ADM/PROV/3)  mM, Financial status of the project (continued)  {1} Mr: MONTAGNIER (Chief, Bureau of Conference  Plancing and General Services) described the back-  ground of documetit 9C/ADM/PROV/3 and pointed out  the changes it made in the original draft resolution  (A 11) on page 12 of document 9C/ADM/20,: At the  request of certain delegations, paragraph 2 provided  for à certain measure of supervision over the  Headquarters Committee, while advances from the  Working Capital Fund were to be cansidered merely  ae an interim measure pending the approval by the  French authorities of any additional loans required.
(2) Mr, PARKIN (Canada) proposed that the draft  resolution in document 9C/ADM/PROV/3 be amended  to include a clause authorizing the Headquarters -  Committee to obtain additional advice on the technical  and contractual aspects of the construction of the new  building. The Canadian delegation considered that  the most suitable person to give such advice would be  Mr. Wallace K, Harrison, who had been Chief of  Planning for the Headquarters building of the United  Nations; and accordingly proposed that an attempt be  made to secure hig services.
(3) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) wondered  whether an expert should not be attached to the  Headquarters Office rather than to the Committee.  He asked whether the Canadian delegation wanted the  Chief of the Headquarters Office to be replaced by  Mr. Harrison or whether the latter should merely be  attached to it.  {4}: The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was sure that.  Mr. Harrison was a very capable man, but pointed  out that he did not haye much control over prices and  wiiges in Paris. The orders for construction had been  given and operations were well advanced, and it  thirefore seemed to the Director-General that it was  foo late for the kind of advice proposed to be of any  value.
(5) In reply to à question from Mr. SUNDARAM  -  (India), the DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that he had no  intention of exceeding estimated éxpériditites without  authorization; as soon as thére appeared to be any  likélihood of a deficit, he would consult the Head-  quarters Committee. Moreover, in case of price  increases, he could slways give ‘orders to stop certain  paits of the constriction in order to keep the project  solvent.
(6) Noting that the Director-General had said that he  would consult the Headquarters Committee if diffi-  culties arose, Mr, WEEDEN (Australia) was  surprised that, despite the current difficulties, one  year had elapsed withoui the Committee's meeting.  He wondered who was responsible for convening it.
(7) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL re that he was  always ready to call the Head s Committee  whenever its Chairman saw fit. He had not called it  for a year because he had had no problems to put to  it but, as soon as it had become evident that there  was likely to be a deficit, he had rought the  Committee ’s advice,
(8) Mr, POMPEI (Italy) was not clear as to what  duties the Canadian delegation intended allockting to  the expert. .Since the Director-General would not be  authorized to draw from the maximum amount of  $500,000 ezcept in the event of rises in prices and  wages, the question was not a technical one but  merely one of interpreting the French regulations on  prices and wages. The Headquarters Committee  already had at its dispossl French experts who wera  more competent to deal with the matter than foreign  ones. They were the first to try to cut expenses,  since the total amount of the French Government loan  would be finally determined on the basis of their  calculations and accounting.  Since the project was being directed by three archi-  tects, under the general supervision of the panel of  five architects and with the assistance of tue Head-  quarters Office and its specialists, he was againat the  addition of still another supervisor and would there-  fove not support the Canadian proposal.
(9) Mr \ BARRIOS DUARTE (Nicaragua) agreed with  the Italian delegate and observed that those in charge  of the Headquarters project were not inexpert but,  on the contrary, thoroughly familiar with the work  they had to do. ‘There was no need to bring in ‘  additional experts. >
(10) Mr. CAMPBELL (New Zealand) thought that the  remarks made by the delegates of Canada and  Australia reflected a genercl uneasiness, which had  not been allayed by the Director-General's explana-  tions. It was a fact that the Headquarters Committee  had not met for one year and the New Zealand  delegaiion would like to know exactly who was  responsible for convening it.
(11) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that the  Committee was a body which had been set up by the  General Conference to adviss him; he was therefore  presumably responsible for convening it, although that   v-13  was not explicitly stated in the Gerieral Conference'n |  resolution, The polat might be considered in connexion  with the third ing because, if it were decided to  construct it, the Heddquarters Committée would  probably have to he convened twice during 1087.
(12) Mr, PARRA- PEREZ (Venezuela) (Chairman of  the Headquartury Committee) said that the Secretary  of the Compr itt;e would read out the General Confer-  ence's resolution defining its terms of reference,  Referring to the method of convening the Committee,  he said that it was clear that the Chairman could not -  do 86 without prior consultation ‘with the Director-  General, whom the Committee advised and who was  the sole judge of the rieed to convene it.
(13) Mr, MANUELIDES (Secretary of the Héad-  quarters Committee) explained to the Commission  that the Headquarters Committee had not been -  convened for one year because all the’ Contractual  documents and plañs had been in course of preparetion  during that period and there had therefore been no  need to convene it; its Chairman and members had,  however, been kept informed of the progress of the  work.
(14) The CHAIRMAN" suggested’ that the Commission  turn to the question of the third building, considering  the proppsal for an additional éxpert in connéxion with  the sum of $500, 000 to be withdrawn from the Working  Capital Fund, ' Canada had proposed the appointment  of such an expert forthwith, and the Commission might  wish to vote on that principle.
(15) ‘Mr, GABOUAT (France) began by. stressing that -  as the Italian deleguté had alréady observed - the”  amount of $500,000 mentioded in paragraph 2 of the:  draft resolution was a maximum provided with the  sole object of covering possible rises in the cost of  materials and wages. . . :  As the Italian and Nicaragüan delegates had already  pointed out; there was no question of revising the plans  or the arrangement of the building, nor. ôf accepting  additional work, but only of enabling the Organization  to meet rising costs. ‘ He pointed out to the Canadian  delegate that the main difficulties encountered during  the work had arisen from the fact that the architects,  who were alréady subject to many forms of supervision,  had been to some extent hindered in carrying out their  responsibilities, Instead of adding a new mode of  supervision and appointing another expert, it would be  better to define their duties more exactly and give  them greater freedom of action. -
(16) Mr. PARKIN (Canada). explained that his ‘delega-  tion's position was based on the fact that the history  ‘of the heddquariers. building had given rise to doubt  as to the wisdom of committing a further sum of  $1,500,000 before being sure that the building opera-  tions were properly controlled. The Commission  might wish to set up a working party to consider how  the necessary precautions could be taken.
(17) Mr: WEEDEN. (Australia) agreed with the  Director-General that it was too late to seek expert  advice as proposed by the Canadian delegation.  Moreover, he thought it useless to provide expert
592  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  advice for a body which did not want it; it therefore  - seemed ünnecessary to take a voté on the principle of  the Canadian proposal,
(18) The CHAIRMAN suggéntéd that the Commission  vote on the resolution contained in document |
9C/ADM/PROV/3, which did not prejudge the motion  of Canada, and establish à small working party to  examine ways in which some assistance could be  given to the Headquarters Committee in its task of  advising the Director-Gencra) and carrying out its  responsibilities under the resolution concerned,
(19) Mr. BARON CASTRO (EI Salvador) raised a  point of order, The Commission had been about to  vote when a point of order had been raised and,  developing into a minor point of substance, had  prolonged the debate, In pointing out that fact, he  urged the Commission to take a vote without further  delay. ; :
(20) : Remarking that the delegate of El Salvador wes »  right, the CHAIRMAN took a vote on the resolution in  document 9C/ADM/FROV/3.
(21) It was adopted unanimously.
(22) The CHAIRMAN suggested the following member-  ship for the small working party: Canada, France,  India, Nicaragua and Vènezuela.
(23) H.R,H, NORODOM NORINDETH (Cambodia) was  surprised at the suggestion to set up a working party,  parallel to the Headquarters Commitee, since its -  members could not be thoroughly familiar with the  problems they would have to study.
(24) The CHAIRMAN sympathized with the attitude  of the delegate of Cambodia, but had understood that  it was the wish of the Commission to set up such a  working party.
(25) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) asked what the duties of  the proposed working party would be, and what would  be its relations with the Headquarters Committee,  which had already been functioning for some time,  and its powers vis-à-vis that Committee.
(26) In reply to the delegate of Mexico, the CHAIRMAN  believed that the Commission wished a small working.  party to bu set up to consider ways in which the Head-  quarters Committee might be provided with expert  advice in carrying out the responsibilities incumbent  upon it under the resolution. just adopted by the .  Commission, The delegate of Australia, on the other  hand, had expressed the view that such a working -  party was unnecessary, because the Headquarters.  Committee could always request and obtain such  expert advice if and when it felt a need for it.
(2) Mr, BARRIOS DUARTE (Nicaragua) saw no peo  for. the establishment of the new working party. en  There were already three engineers ar architects in  charge, of the project; . a panel of five gthers to  supervise them; and the Headquarters Committee,  consisting for a large part of experts. There was no  sense ih appointing additional experts. He thought   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  that there wéré too many experts everywhere and their  iteration would bring life to à standstill, ‘: Before  - coming from Managua to the New Delhi General Con-  ference he had consulted an expert who, after making  him fulfil all sorts of formalities and working out his  route, set him on his way to reach New Delhi by *  $ November, The éxpert's forecasts had not been  borne out because of the Suez Canal incident, which  had compelléd him to remain in Istahbul for a week, -  with the result that his arrival at the Conference had  been delayed, The forecasts given by the expert had  been of no use at all,  : “ "eue dits
(28) Mr, WEÉDEN (Australia) pointed out that the  idea of setting up a small working party bad been to  save time. He believed that the motive behind the  Canadian proposal to seek additional expert advice .  was to help the Director-General in ways in which the  Headquarters Committee had apparently been unable  to do as much as had been hoped.
(26) The proposal to set up a working party was  rejected by 35 votes to 5, with 7 abstentions.  IV, Negotiations with the International Civil Aviation  Orgmidzation (ICAO) (continued)  VY. Proposed construction of en additional building  (continued) .
(30) Asking the Commission to consider. paragraph 41  on page 10 of the report, thé CHAIRMAN proposed the  following procedure; the Commission, taking para-  graph (b) to be the substantive motion, would yote first  on paragraph (a) as the proposal most remote from it.  I that were rejected, it would vote on the Canadian  propoeal that Unesco construct the ‘foundations of a  four -storey building, the first floor of which would be  paid for and occupied by ICAO, If that were rejected,  the Commission would then voie on paragraph (c) and,  in case of rejection, on paragraph (b).
(31) Mr. ‘ SUNDARAM (India) had not intervened in  the debate on the third building the previous day, as  he had wished first to hear all the arguments for and  against. His delegation was now convinced that it was  not imperative for Unesco's work to hive a third  building, , On the other hand, the Indian delegation felt  strongly that ICAO should not be let down and it would  therefore support the ‘Canadian’ ‘proposal,
(32). Mr. CAMPBELL (New Zealand) remarked that  his country was not répresented on the Headquarters  Committee,’ He understood, however, that it was a  committee of advisers’ ‘anid, as such, it would not  normally volunteer advice, Therefore, it it were |  decided to construct a third büilding, soine specific  recommendation regarding the conveaing of the  Committee would have to be issued. ’  For the reasons already stated in the Commission;  the New Zealand delegation would have to vote for the  solution in paragraph 41 (a). If that were not’ adopted,  however, it would vote for the solution proposed by  Canada, as giving priority to the needs of ICAO and  Unésco'n future spacé requirements.
593  V-13  that the records of the Second Extraordinary Session  of the Gederal’ Conference showed that it wan at the .  instance of the Canadian and British delegations that  considerable reductions had been made in the esti-  mates for thé constrpotion of the permanent Hond-  quarters.. He hiraself had opposed the cuts, but in.  vain, The real loser. in the business had heen Unesco.  If the original proposals had been adopted, the current  difficulties would not haye arisen, A false economy  in 1952 had resulted in heavy expenses, and he feared  that the 1060 Conference might feel similar regrets  to those that delegates were experiencing at the  moment, if the proposals of the Canadian and British  delegatus were adopted; > -  He pointed out that the points under. ‘discussion had  already been debated at length in “he Headquarters  Committee, on which Australia, Canada and India  were represented, and he wondered whether the votes  the representatives had recorded. in that body did not  bind their respective governments.  He urged the members of the. Commission to vote  for solution (b), which had not been lightly recom-  mended by. the Committee, | The Committee, far from  succumbing to the tempt' {ion of extravagance, ‘had  sincerely believed that that solution wis, the aly one  which wquid really enable Unesco! s needs, both  the present and for the immddiate tuture, tobe atta  fied., In actual fact, the building to house ‘the Sécret-  ariat would be amaller than the premises inthe  Avenue Kléber, It would not be possible (6 house the  permanent delegations therein and still less for the  Director-General to keep the promiées made to other  Member States or international organizations.  Moréover, as had already béen pointed out, it would  be very ‘expensive to restart building operations and  reopen the study of plans and éstimates at a later date.  The cost would be much higher than the amount of the -  additional funds currently requested. .  He thought fiat, if the principle of constructing a  third building were adopted, the Commission and the  Conference could establish all the supervisory  machinery they considered necessary, provided that  such supervision did not paralyse Unesco's activities  and stop its expansion. .  contracts which ‘had been concluded contained a  provision ehabling him to order further operations tn  the same conditions as those under way, but that no  financial obligation had yet been incurred in connexion  with the third building.
(35) Mr. CHEN (China) suggested that à possible  solution would be to add a fifth storey to the third  building; iri that case there would be no need to ‘  consider the solutions proposed in paragraphs 4 1 (b)  and (c).
(36) The DIRECTOR- -GENERAL feared that such a  course would not be feasible, as neither the French  authorities, the working architects, the Panel of Five  Architects nor the Secretariat itself wanted a five-  storey building, ,Ç
(37) Mgr MAROUN (Lebasioh) 2) thought that the reason  why some delegations were liesitant about the third   v-13  building was that certain, Member States did not keep  sufficiently closely in touch with the life ay develop-  mient of Unesco, and did not all visualize rollabaration  with the Organisation in the same way, Jit there  could be no doubt that such collaboration, was steadily  developidg: The difficultiet eadountered by the per-  manent delegations in finding premises. lessened the  value of their contacts with the Secretariat and it was  therefore both logical aid essential viat they be housed  in the same premises.  One of the arguments raised oguilist the construction  of a third building was that it would)’ nét bé sufficient  and that all the Member States wold ask for offices  if some obtained them. But such requests should be  welconted and not fesred, -Coult’ Unesco turn away  States that approached it? Moré | jme more States  were realixing the néed for élgéez pe more practical  co-operation with the Organizatiok *  Referring to the interdationsl Lii-governmental  organizations, Mgr Maroun /itresséd that Unesco was  not merely an intergovernniental body, The very  nature of its work made it far more than a political  and administrative organisation, and on the’ Nupra-  national level, the co- opération of the international  non-governmental orgardzations was essential:  He concluded by urging the members of the Com-  mission té look beyond strictly f ial considera-  tions, and to take the decision most conducive to the  expansion of co-operation between Unesco, its Member  States and the non-governmental organizations, He  unhesitatingly recommended th2 adoption of solution  (b).
(38) Mr. AHMED (Pakistan), whole-heartedly  seconding Mgv Maroun, stated that his delegation  also was in favour of salution (b).
(39) Mr. STAHL (Sweden) announced that the Swedish  delegatioh wonid zuzpadt the solution proposed in  paragraph 41 (c).
(40) Mir. MONTAGNIER (Chief, Bureau ‘ot Conference  Planding and General Services) explained that on ‘the  baris of the agresments (renéwable annually) currently  in force betwegn Unesco and various rion-governmental  organizations, the lattér would have te be provided  with 26 offices, for 43 persons, besides four offices  asked for by thé Commission for a History of the =  Scientific and Culfural Development of Mankind, The  total area was ‘oughly. equal fo that ‘required by ICAO.  Reasonably large premises for the other non-govern-  mental organisations were provided for in the  basement of the Conference building, ;  Solution (c) would enable ali those wishing to be.  housed near the Secretariat to be accommodated for  some years, But the expansion of the Secretariat and  the expected increase in the number of permanent  delegations would compel the administration gracuatly  to eject hem.
(41) - Me, BARON CASTRO (El Salvador) sald’ that,  for the purposes of voting, At would be best to reduce  the three proposals of the Headquarters Committee  to two. Proposal (a) in paragraph 41 of document
9C/ADM/30 was equivalent to discontinuing building  If the Commission was of the opinion that building  should continue, it would have to decide whether it
504     ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  was or was not in favour of the additional building,  Should it decide in the affirmative, it would then |  merely have to decide whether or not to accommodate  ICAO, The procedure he suggested w would simplify  voting.
(45) Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Sqviet ‘Stataliet ‘  Republics) admitted that he was surprised that do  much had been said about ICAO and so little, except  “ for speeches by Mgr Maroun and Mr, Carneiro, about  Unesco and its Member States, The faut that many  States were members both of Unésco and of ICAO  should not mean that the interests of ICAO took  precedence over those of Unesco, although both |  Organizations belonged to the United Nations family,  Mr. Zhukov did not object to ICAO's request being  met, but only after Unesco's own needs had been fully  satisfied. He was in favour of the solution proposed  in paragraph (b) of the report of the Headquarters  Committee.
(43) Mr. de HOOG (Netherlands) observid that the  discussion on'thé question of the third building that  had been asked for ou the previous day hid contributed  nothing really new. He formally moved {he closure  of the discussion,
(44) The motion was seconded by the delsgates of  Spain, Italy and Ecuador.
(45) The CHAIRMAN, recalling that the \Jnited  Kingdom delegation had, the previous day’, proposed  the adoption of the Golution in paragraph 41 (a),  inquired whett.r the proposal was seconded.
(46) The Uuited Kingdom proposal was secomied by  Mr. TVF(ERAAS (Norway).
(47) KR was rejected by 36 votes to 7, with no  abstentions.
(48) The CHAIRMAN next asked the Commission to  vote on the Canadian proposal.
(49) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed. out that it  was important that the Canadian motion should be  worded in su¢h a way as to concord with the proposal  regarding the sharing of costs between \Jnesco and  ICAO; the point was to make it clear that ICAO would  pay for part of the basement and fowsdations in the  same proportion ra if the building were to be four  storeys high. In other words, the Canadian motion  should not be inconsistent with the draft agreement  mentionsd in paragraph 28 of the report.
(50) While agreeing with the Director-Ghneral, the‘  CHAIRMAN pointed out that he was askin the Com-  - mission to vote for the time being on the toners]  principle only.
(61) Mr. CAROUAT (France) said that he pas  obliged to “nier a reservation with regard o the  attitude of the "Commission des Sites" towalds a  single-storey building instead of a four-store’ one.
(52) Mr. BARRIOS DUARTE (Nicaragua) was in  favour of the adoption of proposal (b) in paragraph 41   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  of documied | 20/ADM/20, He agreed with the delega-  tion of the ‘uniun of Soviet Socialist Republics that the  Commissioy phould consider and decide in the light of  the needs dithe Organization. It was difficult to  accommodaty in the Secretariat's premises an outside  body whose r.\presentative was not present at the  meeting and whose wishes were not known, The  Commission should consider only Unesco's own needs  in decidirg on the question.
(83) Mr, POMPEI (Italy) understood that, if the  Canadian proposal were to be adopted, Unesco would  have té take over the amount of $134,000 for the  foundations of the building.
(54) The CHAIRMAN confirmed what Mr. Pompei  bad said,
(35) The Canadian proposal that Unesco and ICAO  construct the foundations, basement and first floor of  # four-storey building, complying with the terms of  the draft agreement mentioned in paragraph 28 of the  report of the Headquarters Committee, was rejected  by 36 votes to 7, with no abstentions.  {86) The solution proposed in paragraph 41 (c) of  document 9C/ADM/20 was rejected by 26 votes to
10, with 3 abstentions.
(57) The solution proposed in paragraph 41 (b) of the  same report was adopted by 28 votes to 2, with2  abstentions.
(58) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Chief, Bureau of Conference  Planning and General Seryices) commented on draft  resolution B (page 13 of document 6C/ADM/20). The  first three paragraphs contained an outline of the  reasons for the resolution, and the fourth was similar  to a text approved by the General Conference at its  Second Extraordinary Session. Under the terms of  the draft, the Director-Gencral could not arrange for  plans to be drawn up and invite tenders until he had  obtained an assurance that the French Government  was prepared to grant the additional loan. Finally,  as in 1953, the text laid down a ceiling for the cost of  the work.
(59) Draft resolution B was adopted by 28 votes to |
2, with 2 abstentions.  ‘VI. ‘Artistic decoration of the Headquarters building
(60) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Chief, Bureau of Conference  Planning and General Services) recalled that the  question had been discussed by the Committee of Art  Advisers, .The main point of the report was paragraph
46, When calculated on the ua sual basis of 2 per cent  of the amount ‘of the estimate, “ihe budget for decora-  tion was insufficient in view of the special character  ot Unesco's Headquarters as a "Cultural Centre".  The additional sum recommended by the Committee  of Ar; Advisers appeared in the revised budget esti-  mates given in paragraph 11 of the report.
(61) As the Commission had already approved an  #altional amount of $1,500,000 for the Headquarters  building, Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) was confident
595     v-13  that big fellow delegaten would agree that the further  sum of $70,000 for the completion of the artistic  decoration of the building should not be approved,  He so moved,
(62) Directing Mr, Cowell's attention to paragraph
11 on page 3 of the report, the CHAIRMAN pointed  out that the extra $70,000 for art decoration was  included in the $1,000,000 deficit with which the  Commission had already dealt,
(63) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) was shocked,  as he had not been aware that awards to artists could  be taken from deficits on construction costs.  “ (64) Mr, PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela) (Chairman of  the Headquarters Committee) replied that Mr. Cowell  could ask the opinion of Sir Herbert Read, ane of the  art advisors who, in the Committee, had urged the  approval of additional funds with the greatest vigour.
(65) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that all the necessary  information was given in paragraph 11 of the report.
(66)- Mr. JOCHAMOWITZ (Peru) asked for informa-  tion about the choice of the artists who had been  commissioned to execute the works of art decided on  by the architects. He did not think that the Director-  General was to blame for any error in that choice,  and recognized that any answer that might be given  was of rather academic interest as the works were  already in the process of execution. "He compared  the Committee of Art Advisera toa body of judges  which was far from infallible and in which there was  no personal responsibility. The ‘ gentlemen in question  had been paid fees amounting to 3,600,000 francs, and  now had àt their disposal the handy sum’ of 70,000,000  francs to pey for the works of art on which they  themselves decided.  He expressed his uneasiness that Picasso had been  commissioned to decorate one of the halls, While the  Unescu building should be representative of contem-  porary art, good and bad trends had to be distinguished.  It had to be representative of what was really lasting  and it could safely be said that future generations  would regard Picasso as a master of hoaking.  While opinions changed quickly in the field of  aesthetic appreciation, taste should not be so uncer-  tain as to be unable to distinguish what was art and  what was not, or when a work was beautiful and when  it was nat, ‘He recognized that ugliness could ‘be art  but that did not mean that ugliness, in itself, made  art - the {dea which moved Missia, the wife o the  Spanish painter Jésé Marik Sert to say, by way of  ironical comment on a péculiar work, "it 16 good  because it is bad". Picasso had been poisoning the  world of art for fittÿ years. His work was nothing  but à cancer in the body of art and produced an  uncontrolled growth similar to the neoplism of that  dread disease. Mr. Jochamowitz justified his  categorical opinion by reference to his own ‘know-  ledge and experience and concluded by saying that his  desire was to help in making Unssco's Headquarters  a synthesis of what was best. ;
(67) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) said that discussion on  artistic merits should rot be allowed. Most of the   v-13  members of the Administrative Commission were not  prepared for it and the discussion would get out of  hand. The Headquarters Committee was sufficiently  well advised to be able to make a reasonable decision.  He recommended that mankind's various cultures and  main artistic trends should be represented in the  Cultural Centre.
(68) Mr, PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela) {Chairman of  the Headquarters Committee) began by saying that he  had been appointed Chairman of the Commitiee of Art  Advisers because he was Chairman of the Head-  quarters Committee but thet he had ho right to vote  or to express an opinion on the merits of the artists.  Four eminent advisers sat on the Committee - Sir  Herbert Read, a leading art critic, Mr. Francisco  Javier Sanchez Canton, the Director of the Prado  Museum, H,E, Sahid Suhrawardy, the Ambassador of  Pakistan in Madrid, and Mr, Georges Salles, They  were assisted by the architects, Messrs, Markelius  (Sweden), Errest Rogers (Italy) and Breuer (United  States of America). Their reports were public, and  they had advised the Director-General on the choice  of artists for the decoration of the building. The  Director-General was completely free to follow their  advice or to reject it. He had always chosen those he  considered most appropriate from among the names  suggested by the Committee of Art Advisers.  At the moment, discussions were goirig on with the  artists. At the last meeting of the Committee,  various maquettes submitied by those artists were  studied but no definite decision had yet been made as  to which would be appointed to carry out the work of  decoration. ‘ So far no objection had been made to the  foilowing names! Henry Moore (United Kingdom),  Naum Gabo (Soviet Union), Pevsner (Soviet Union),  Fernand Leger (France), Miro (Spain), Nivola (Italy),  Jean Arp (France), Calder (United States of America),  Isamu Noguchi (Japan). Picasso, who had been  somewhat harshly treated by the Peruvian delegate,  was among the principal names, as was also Tamayo  (Mexico). The Committee of Art Advisers had also  had the idea of setting aside the seventh floor of the  building to leave room for new ‘artists, and there was  already more than one candidate for consideration in  that connexion. '  He stressed that nothing had yet been décided on  the subject and ihat tic Art Advisérs were examining  the problem, their main object being to seé that the  building was representative of the international  character of the Organization. Mie considera-  the artiotie character of Paris. He informed the  Peruvian delegate that he had available the supple-  mentary data that the latter considéred necessary but,  like the Mexican representative, he felf that it was  difficult to discuss artistic merit in the Commission.  Every delegate would be able to form his own opinion  from the information that had been published.
(68) The CHAIRMAN hoped that thé Commishion  would not enter into a debate on the artistic aspects  of the question. He asked if the Commission
596  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  wished to take à new vote on the sum ol $70,000,
(70) Mr. CAMPBELL (New Zealand) asked if there  were any objection to the earlier Canadian suggestion  that the artistic decoration of the building might be  completed over a period of time,
(71) The DIRECTOR: GENERAL replied that the  Committee of Art Advisers, the three architects and  he himself considered that the work covered by the  sum of $70,000 represented the bare minimum which  should be done at the present time, If the Conference  wished, however, the sum could be omitted and brought  before it agein at a future session, but that would mean  that the bare minimum could not be done, as the money  available was not enough to cover the decoration work  originally foreseen.
(72) Mr. CABOUAT (France) drew the Commission's  attention to the information given by the Director-  General and the Chairman of the Head arters  Committee. The increased allocation had been  discussed at length by the Committee of Art Advisers  and the Headquarters Committee and had finally been  deemed essential, He feared that a hasty decision  might be taken at the current meeting and formally  moved the adjournment of the debate,  Pointing out that certain Member States would  probably take over responsibility for part of the  decoration of the building, Mr, Cabouat asked whether  the answers already received to the Director-General's  appeal might possibly lead to a reduction of the  additional sums requested,
(73) Mr. JOCHAMOWITZ (Peru), referring to the  remarks of the Chairman of the Headquarters Com-  mittee, said that financial considerations should not  be the only factors taken into account with regard to  the matter under discussion. Considerations of art  were of undoubted importarce in connexion with the  building of Unesco’ s Headquarters, He congratul ated  Mr. Parra-Perez on his splendid work as Chairman  of the Committee and said that,if it was true that in  his previous speech he had expressed himself with  too much warmth, he would like to show that he  preferred to be warmer in his praise than in his  blan ».
(74) The CHAIRMAN had hoped that the Commission  would be able to conclude its debate on the Head-  quarters building. However, he asked if the motion  to adjourn the debate was seconded.
(75) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) opposed the  motion for adjournment.
(76) Mr. POMPEI (Italy) expressed the view that the  Commission could not take a decision without thorough  “reflection. Without formally. raising a point of  procedure; he wondered whether, from that point of  view, the Commission was obliged to take a vote.  However that might be, he would second the motion  for adjournment.
(17) The motion for adjournment was adopted.  The meeting rofie at 6.20 p.m.