9 November 1086, at 10.45 a.m,  President: Mr, ALLYN (United States of America)  later: Mr. ARROYO (Ecuador)  CONTENTS  Speech by the representative of Tunisia. . , .:. .  General discussion cf the Director-General's report’ and  the Proposed Programme and Budget foi 1957-1958 (con-  tinued): Speeches hy the delegates of Burma, Gold Coast  Lebanon, United Kingdom, New Zealand, United States of
90  America, Pakistan, India and Turkey . . . . . . . . . 90  SPEECH BY THE REPRESENTATIVE OF TUNA
(1) The PRESIDENT: I call upon the delegate of  Tunisia.
(2) Mr CHABBI (Tunisie) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, Mr. Director-General,  ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to  speak for the first time at'a Unesco Conference to the  representatives of the countries belonging to this  great Organization,  My chief desire is to perform ‘the very pleasant  duty of expressing, both personally | and on behalf of  my country, my grateful thahke to You, ladies and  gentlemen, by whose vote Tunisia was admitted as a  full member of the United Nations Educational,  Scientific arid Cultural Organisation. My thanks are  also due to thé Economic and Social Council of the  United Natiëns, to the Executive Board of Unesco and  to the Director-General, whose decisions and  approvil made this admission possible.  It is with pridé that Tunisia thus enters the inter-  national scene under thé auspices of such an Organi-  zation ad Unesco. My country is profoundly convinced  of the vital importance of sincere co-operation between  nations, baséd on à better appreciation of the éommon  cultural heritagé and & joint effort to solve the éduca-  tional, scientific and cultural problems with which the  conscience of mankind ié faced in all parts of the  world. It is making a profession of faith in this  collective undertaking, whose miccéas depends on a  constant endeavour which lé only possible where  there is peace and à regard for huiñiab” dignity.  The unhappy events now taking plice, particularly  in Algeria and Egypt: which aéè poisoning relations  between pecplés at the risk of prejudicing them  permanently, can only dé’ grave harm to Unesco's  work, For the peaceful; progréssive and freedom  loving peoples of thé world, only the cultiral aims  that Unesco pursues, and the spiritual values they  imply and are intended to serve can be considered of  lasting value, Tunisia; for one, intends to make its -  full contribution to their realisation.    In conclusion, 1 would ask the Government of India,  its distinguished President and the whole Indian  people to accept the thanks of the Government and  people of Tunisia for their hospitality. I would also  express the hope that this ninth session of the  General Conference may takeus a step forward on  the road to peace, progress and the brotherhood of  mankind.  GENERAL DISCUSSION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL'S REPORT  AND THE PROPOSED FROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1987-1968  (continued)
(3) The PRESIDENT: I call upon the delegate of  Burma,
(4) Mr, HLA (Union of Burma): Mr. President and  fellow delegates, it is indeed a great privilege and  honour to be on this rostrum addressing you for the  second time as chairman of the natioiial' delegation  of the Union &f Burma. But before I go on with my  brief comments on the reports of the Director-  General and the Executive Board, may I take leave  to say, on behalf of the Burmese delegation, how  grateful we all are to be able to spend & few weeks  in this beautiful capital city of Bharat, Indraprastha  (Delhi), both very ancieït and ever becoming new  and modern - indeed new for the eighth time since
1911.  As practising followers of the Lord Buddha, we  are very fortunaté to bé in India at this particular  juncture, now thal this grest country is celebrating  the 2500th Jayanti of our Lord. There could be no  more propitious time and place for the General  Conference of Unesco to hold its ninth session than  now and here, coricurrently with the Jayant! cele-  brations. May the spirit of the Dhamma prevail’  inside this magnificent building and Laflueñce and  guide the deliberations of Unesco, the purposes of  which, embodied in Article I of the Conatitution,  are, after dll, a true reflection of the Buddha's  teaching. On behalf of the Government and the   PLENARY MEETINGS  delegation of the Untoi of Burma, may I express our  sincere gratitude to oué charining Indian hosts for  their hospitality; and extend our hearty greetings to  the great Republic of India? ::. ="  With your. kind permission, Mé.' President, 1 1 would  ; now like to say how relieved our delegation was to  read, on the morning of 7 November ; the néws that.  orders had gotié aut to thé ‘Anglo-French troops from  their respective Governments to ceasé firing où the  Egyptians by midnight on Tuesday ;: 6 November 1956.  Perhaps some of my friends’ who ère gathered | here  now may question thé relévancé of this remark of -  mine to the affairs of Unesco;: in which casé 1'can do  no better than quote a passage from Shei Jawsharlal  Nehru's address to this Conferénce on 5 November,  which runs; : 1 have called this great assembly the  conscience of the world community, The problems  we have to face, many snd complicated as they are,  will never be solved except on the basis of geod - :  morals and conatience, It ia for this reason that I  beg of you, distinguished delegates from the nations  of the world, to pey heed to this collapse of Conscience  and good morals that we see around is, for unless we  do 80, all your fine ideals and the good work you have  done will be shattered into nothingness". "In this.  connexion, I cannot help reminding myself that the  Government of thé Union of Burma; which I have the  honour to represent in this conscience of the world  community'!is à signatory of the Pyinsa-thi-la .  (Panch-Shil), the five principals of good international  behaviour as laid down in the U Nü-Chou-en-lai - and  Nehru-Chou-en-lai. declarations of 1854, The deve-  lopments of the last fortnight or so in West Asia and  East Europe are hardly calculated tô further the ends  of world peace ; justice; law and human dignity, which  this Organization, representing the conscience of the  world community, has for the last ten years striven  to achieve'by "promoting collaboration among the  nations through education, science and culture”. These  events naturally perturbed us greatly. . It is precisely  for this reason that the cease fire order in West Asia  snd Marshal Bulganin's reported public declaration  that the Soviet troops would be eventually withdrawn  from Hungary, are received by our delegation with  genuine relief...  With regard to the reports. o the Director-General  on the activities of the Organization in,1955; and in the  first half of 1956, I would like, first of ail, to seize  the opportunity of congratulating ‘the Director-General  and his colleagues on the very able manner in which  this arduous task has been accomplished. , Thon most  outstanding feature of the préviçus programme, in our  opinion, was the inclusion of "Aid to Member States"  as decided at the Montevideo session of the Conference.  We should not like to conceal our feeling that this is a  programme which deserves priority; as it directly  ‘Senefits the majority. of our Member States which  happen to bé either, underdeveloped or semi-developed,  in the material sense of the word, :Unesco!s contri-  bution, through the-projeci for Aid to Member States,  to the efforts of these States to improve their lot ina  modern world; is very properly in line with the: :  Organisation's noble ideals, to which we all subscribe.  The delegation of the Union of Burma would whole-  heartedly support any move to increase technical aid  to Member States. -  Ou behalf of the delegation of an wderdeveloped
91  . - Thavè no intention of minimising the  © impoétanée of advice and xpert  country, 1 should; however; 1 like ‘to obseirve that, in  this programme of Ald to mber States, aid in he  form of advice seems à lik ) Over emphasized at  the expense of aid in the form of material equipment.  mppreme  kriowledge in ;  matters relating to the improvement et à country's  education and technical ability: But an academic  lecture accompanied by à practical demcastration;  using suitable equipment and apparatus, would be .  far more éffective in putting across knowledge and  ideas than ter; lectures without demonstration; My  delegation therefore firmly believes that a little  readjustment between aid in the form of advice and  that of equipment is desirable, , ...  May I now turn to ‘the activities pianined for  Unesco's future aétion in 1957 and 19587 The  delegation of the Union of Burma notes with satis-  faction the inclusion in the draft programme of the  three major, projects which are of value to under-  developed countries. The project which would |  launch a programme of universal primary education  in a large part of the world, namely Latin America,  is indeed very welcome. For the achievements of  those peoples in the building up of a new continent  the Afro-Asians have the highest respect and  admiration, :  Again, the project. for. ‘research où arid regions  and the developmi¢nt of those regions is very..  laudable, Our friééds irithése arid parts of Atrion  and Asia form a huge portion of the world coïmunity  and Unencè's attention and contribution to théir  material and moral welfare can only lesd to the  reduction of international tension and the stabilization  of peace in the world, For this reasca we wish  Unesco every success in this iioble endeavour’, :  We stated our conviction in Montevideo that  "Unesco will find better opportunities for the - -  promotion of international understanding in thé tield  of culture than in the fields of education and science"!  And this conviction of ours still stands unchanged  today. The inclusion in thé draft programme of a  project aiming at improving mutual appreciation of  Orfental and Occidental cultures is therefore most  pertinent, . Indeed, the launching of such a pro- ,  gfammé at this particular juncture of world history  could not be more timely; the need for mutual .  respect and appreciation of different cultures in  order to bring about {international understanding  cannot be ovér-stressed..;..; ; .-i-  Under the seme ‘heading, 1 ‘would ‘like. So add that,  at the last session. Unesco's Gelieral Conference  very kindly sanctisoed a certain amount of aid, in  the form of the services of fa architect and certain  tellowahips, to a great’ cultural, programme tat b has  been going ‘on in Burma since we gained dur -  independénce in 1948. Unfortunately, i have to  confess thet sôtné of the facilities provided for us  by Unesco two years ago could not be utilised by us  owing to certain internal difficulties;  financial difficulties, in our country.  cultural project which we have started in Burria -  the building of a national cultural centre, the, .  national library, the national art gallery, the . ne  national music and dancing institute - is still going  on although at a reduced rate.  Théreforé, I hope -  that this Organization will continue to associate      n-8 PLENARY  itself with the development of the arent cultural  organization in our country, -  With regard to the ovérall content of the draft  programme, ! would like to touch upon the production  of reading materials for new literates, We, in Burma,  have endeavoured in our own way, not without success,  to produce reading materials for cur new literates  since 1947, that is, before wé became a member of  this great Organization. “The Burma Translation  Society, which was established in 1947 and which has  been running ever since by our own efforts and our  own limited resources, can now claim to its credit  the production of some 6,000,000 books in Burmese  during the last nine years,’- Ît is thus the principal  producer of Burmese books covering various subjects  in the fields of the humanities and elementary general  science for the new litérates; -. Some of thé books are  translations from current world literature and science,  some are adaptations, and the remainder are original  publications. Thé Burma Translation Society has  recently produced a 14 volume "Encyclopaedia  Birmanica" and a 32 volume "Encyclopaedia of  Popular Sciénde".. These achievements; for what  they are worth, havé been made without very  substantial outside aid. And I am proud that Unesco  has now fittingly taken notice of the work of the Burma  Translation Society and has decided to open a workshop  at the Society, towards the last quarter of 1957, for  the reproduction of reading materials for new -  literates from Burma, India, Ceylon and Pakistan.  It is also gratifying to note that, for the first time, a  Burmese national has been appolnted for two years  to the Secretariat as the programme specialist on the  same project. I would liké to add, in this connexion,  that the production of literature and reading material  for new literates is considered extremely important  by our Government. The National Commission of  Burma took part'in the regional conference on this  subject, and it {es the intention and the desire of the  Burmese Government {6 go ahead with this project in  our own country, as it is our hope that this Conference  will sponsor it as a méjor project.  As a necessary accompaniment to the production of  literature for new literates, wé organized what ia  termed the "Mass Education Movement" in’ 1948, one  year after thd establishment of the Burma Translation  Society. -The 950 organizers of this movement, of  which nearly 200 are women, go out into the field in  any part of the country aiid make a particular place  their home for at least two years, or as long as they  are required to do ao by. the héadquarters, There  they carry out énd organize in the iocélitiès all kirds  of social service work, which includes among other  things, the conducting of "3R". adult clases, the  digging of hygienle drinking water Wells, the building  of village libraride, the building up of cottage  industries, the répairing of roads, été., all on a ’  communal basis.’ The success of this movement in  facing the challéfije of endemic adult illiteracy, rural  poverty and 1) health in the Burmese villages has the  recogiition ôf the United Nations, which sent a Com-  munity Development Study Mission in January this  year, cédéistirig of delegates from five countries of  the Middle East. :  The Director-General is to be congratulated on his  efforts since 1954 for the realization of the principle  of fair geographical distribution of posts both in the
92  MEETINGS  Secretariat and in the Executive Board, But I would  be lacking in honesty if I did not mention that there  is still room for further improvement in this  direction, 1 would, however, like to emphasize to  the President and my fellow’ delegates that J say  this, not on the personal ground of being a contestant  for election to the Executive Board nor on the  chauvinistic ground that not enough Burmese  nationals are being appointed to the Secretariat, but  purely on grounds of equity and lasting general  satisfaction for all our members concerned.  In conclusion, 1 wish to express the genuine  gratification of the Burmese delegation at the  enlargement of Unesco's membership since 1954,  when we were only 72. On behalf of the Burmese  delegation, I extend our sincere greetings to our  new members, namely, Bulgaria, Ethiopia,  Paraguay, Rumania, Finland, Morocco, Tunisia  and the Federation of Nigeria; We would like,  however, to associate ourselves with our Indian and  Soviet triends, as we are grieved to note that our -  great Organization häs not yet seen fit to implemént  the principle of universal membership, in spirit'as  well as in letter, in regard to the People's Republic  of China. We will continue to hope that obstacles  to the application of the principle of the universality  of Unesco's membership will soon disappear from  our minds, We should like constantly to remind  ourselves and all our friends gathered here that it  is Unesco's responsibility to tackle the deeper and  underlying causes of conflicts and tensions, both  national and international. We are to sow the seeds  of a better and more peaceful world; we are to  prepare the defences of peace in the minds of men.
(5) The PRESIDENT: I call upon the delegate of  the Gold Coast.
(6) Mr. MATE (Gold Coast): Mr. Presidént,  fellow delegates, many delegates here today will  remember Mr: J,B, Erzuah, who représented the  Gold Coast at the Montevideo Conference two years  ago. You will be interested to know that Mr.  Erzuah has recently become the Minister of  Education in the Gold Coast. He had béen looking  forward very much to coming to this Conference  and meeting again the many friends he made at the  Montevideo Conference, He much regrets, however,  that urgent and very important business at home  has prevented his attending the General Conference  on this occasion, - Many of you may probably know  that the important businesJ concerns the emergence  of the Gold Coast into an independent State. The  birth of a new ration is.a great and joyous event,  but it does involve much preparation, and Mr.  Erzuah, as well as the other’ Cabinet Ministers, are  now'very much occupied in getting things ready for
6 March 1857, when the great event takes place.  And so it falls to mie to be the delegate representing  the Gold Coast at this session of Unesco's General  Conference. ‘I hope that by the time the next  Conferénce takes pläcé, my country will have became  a full member of Unesco. ;  In his speech to the Montevideo Conference after  the Gold Coast had been elected an Associate  Member, the delegato reviewed the educational,  scientific and cultural development of my country   PLENARY  and mentioned some of the progress that had recently  taken place. I am glad to report that the progress  ‘has been maintained during the last two years. In  the fields of formal and technical education, compri-  sing primary and middle schools, the trade schools  and technical institutes, secondary grammar and  technical schools, the teacher training colleges, the  college of technology, and the university college,  expansion has continued as fast as building capacity,  funds and staff have permitted.  In this connexion, I must refér to the more difficult  financial problem facing the Government of my  country consequent upoti the fall in the world price of  cocoa, which has resulted in a considérable loss of  revenue. This has, of course, reduced the amount of  money available for educational development, .  Nevertheless, one of the most important educational  aims of the Government - that is, to provide fee free  primary school education for all children whose  parents wish them to have it --has now come near to  “achievement. Many new middlé schools have been  opened in the last two years and considerable  expansion has taken 'place in secondary education and  teacher training. An indication of the progress  achieved is that, whereas in 1938 thére were only  some 80,000 pupils in elementary schools in the Gold  Coast, by 1954 the number had risen to 500,000 and  there is now a further increase to 560,000 - seven  times the number in 1938. Again, whereas in 1938  about 1,000 pupils attended secondary schools, by
1954 the numbers were 8,500, and have now risen to  over 11,000, although we consider that this is not  nearly enough.  In the sphere of technical education, one new  technical institute was completed early this year, and  new buildings for another are due to be finished  shortly. In higher education, further building has  taken placé in the university college and it now has  accommodation for 700 students. The Kumasi  College of Technology is also expanding and now has  some 600 students, ;  In fundamental education, progress continues. At  Montevideo the Gold Coast delegate was able to state  that close oñ 500,000 people had obtained literacy  certificates as the result of the w(rk of our mass  education teams.“ I am glad to be able to report at  this Conference that the number has been doubled,  and that over. 1,000,000 people have now received the  Gold Coast Certificate of Literacy, signifying ability  to read and write in their own languages.  In community development, also, which is regarded  in my country as the necessary complement to mass  literacy in improving the way of life of our people,  much progress continues to be made. ‘In this sphere,  there is fruitful partnership between the local com-  munities who providé iinskilled 1abair and the central  Government which prov ides technical advice and  equipment for such pfojécts as new roads, schools,  post offices; village halls; bridges, water mipplies  and markets: ‘ In thié year aléne; mére than 1,000 of  these gelf-help projects have béen undertaken,
1 would like to iiention briefly à féw other spheres  in which progress has been made sinés the last  session of the General Conference. Our national  library system his been further improved by the  completion of two major library buildings, including  a new Central Library in Accra which cost £64,000  MEETINGS
1-8  LS  and of which we are very proud. The co-operating  bodies of our Unesco National Commission, which  cover the social sciences, museums, monuments  and relics, the arts, and natural sciences, and  which consist largely of unofficial members, have  continued to do gobd work in their various spheres.  Work is nearing completion n a riew building for a  national museum ésid steps are being taken to set up  a new board to adminjeter this museum and take  care of monuments and relics gerierally, Consider-  ation is also being given to the setting up of a  permanent Arts Council. But, Mr, President, as  Mr. Erzuah said at the last session of the General  Conference, we are not self-satisfied. We feel we  have much to learn from the rest of the world and  we are grateful for the help we have already  received from Unesco.  At the present time, we have two Unesco experts  in the Gold Coast working on the production of  literature in the various vernacular languages, We  are very glad to receive such technical assistance.  In return, I hope we may be able, in spheres such  as mass education and community development, in  which we feel we are relatively well advanced, to  assist other nations not so well placed. In  conclusion, Mr. President, may I, on behalf of my  country and my people, say how glad we are to have  been an Associate Member of Unesco during the last  two years, and express the resolve of the people of  my country that, as an independent State in the yeors  to come, we will do all we can to play a full part in  the great work of this Organization to secure a  better life for the peoples of all lands?
(7) The PRESIDENT: I call upon the delegate of  Lebanon. :
(8) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) (Translation from the  French); Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we  are particularly happy that this session of the General  Conference is being held in India, a country which,  by reason of its position in the world, its profound  philosophy and lofty ideals and its new conceptions  of international life - deriving, however, from a  most ancient religious tradition - has our utmost  admiration.  We are glad of thi: opportunity of expressing our  gratitude, The importance of this General Confer-  ence has been emphasized in the clearest possible  terms by Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, the Indian  Minister of Education. The Prime Minister of  India, Shri Jawaharlal Nehru, proved to us in his  speech, as his country has done by. its example,  that it is no more possible to changé the course of  history than to change that of the Ganges or the Nile.  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural  Organization is thé fine title by which we are known.  But this does not mean that we have a monopoly of  these three great blessings - education, science and  culture,” They are to be found everywhere even in  highly technical or political debates. But neither  does oui title obligé us to abstain from’ any form of  political action. Politics and policy must have their  place in every activity, everywhere; they are part  and parcel of the art of government and constructive  leadership. We thus find an educational policy, a  scientific policy, a cultural policy. And even   n-g PLENARY  though we may not ail agree on this definition; I think  that we should still be concerned with policies and  politics, and that it would be both unjust and criminal  to prevent us from intervening in the political sphere  when the peace of the world is at stake,  Unesco's efforts up to the present have been  extremely useful and fruitful. The time has come  when they should perhaps be given a different  direction or, at any rate, extended in some new way.  The Organization has reason to be proud of its many  specialized activities, ranging from meetings rid  Directors of Cultural Relations Services to the  protection of natural sites, the Convention for the  Protection of Cultural Property - which we did not’  realize, alas, would need to be put into effect so  soon - and the establishment of fundamental education  centres, But this no longer suffices; a higher ideal  now claims its endeavours.  To plant the seeds of peace in the minds of men;  this cannot be done without a policy.  We should be blind indeed had we not seen the  breach bet ween nations - even between continents -  daily widening and deepening until finally blood has  flowed. It is for Unesco to heal that breach. This  must be, if not its sole task, at least its chief aim in  the years to come,  The East and the West are divided by two differing  ideologies; here is a problem that will have to be  tackled in the very near future. Coexistence in this  particular case implies the reconciliation of the  ideas and forces of two opposing blocs. This problem  may be beyond our competence, and in any case we  can only approach it with the utmost caution.
1 say "may be", Allow me, to quote an Arab  proverb, whose meaning is sufficiently clear. It says  'when the wind and the sea are at variance, the small  boat pays the price". Between the East wind and the  Western sea there are many small boats, for which it  is vital that calm-shail prevail.  There remains the sphere of relations between the  Orient and the Occidént. In this we ace directly  concerted, we have a right to speak, to express our  views, since our very future is at stake.  We have witnessed, day by day, the rapid deterior-  ation of relations between the Eastern and Western  peoples. Their ways have parted and they have  formed two opposing cam id Incomprehension has  given rise to ill will and the outcome has been the  tragic conflict of which wè hope we have already seen -  militarily speaking - both thé genesis and the  epilogue. - We cannot hide our heads in the sand and  pretend to see nothing of this.  - At the root of this conflict lier a lack of under-  standing, a lack of appréciation of mutual values.  To the Western peoples I say that we have found in  your history the most powerful incentives to faith,  hope and endeavour. : Only recently we saw that great  country, the United States of America, mobilize all  its forces, and, with little prospect of material gain,  send its sons abroad in their millions, to the  Mediterranean, the Atlantic and the Pacific, :  thousands of miles from home, to fight and to die, in  order, by their intervention, to turn the scales of  history in favour of right and justice. We saw  another great nation, the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, unjustly attacked, bled white, with  millions of its people slaughtered and its lands laid  MEETINGS
94  waste, moved, in spite of all, by the feryour of its  patriotism and by faith in its cause, to provide the  world with an example of heroiem. We have been  cble to appreciate the values of these countries.  Perhaps they in turn have appreciated ours?  We also saw England, in 1940, defiant in ite  island stronghold, setting the whole world a superb  example of ccurage and determination, England,  which stood firm, magnificent in ita pride and  courage and facing fearful odds, under the most  violent and terrible bombardment the world had  ever known, until the final victory - how could  England think that bomber aircraft, whatever their  numbers, could overcome the determination of the  victims of aggression?  And what of France? Faced by superior enemy  forces on land and in the air, despite the collapse  of its armed resistance, the capture ¢f millions of  prisoners, the Armistice and the occupation of its  territory, France nevertheless found a brilliant  leader to carry on the struggle abroad and thousands  of patriots to resist the enemy at home. How could  France, after such an endeavour, belleve thet  parachute troops, in whatever numbers, could crush  a nation which had been unjustly attacked and  overthrow ite government? How can such an  attitude be explained except by a lack of appreciation  of the highest spiritual values?  In the glorious history of England and France,  which we were taught as children and every detail  of which we know by heart, we feel that a page has  been written which we could not be blamed for  wishing to destroy and forget.  We Lebanese suffer even more, in our country  where Christianity and Islam live so harmoniously  side by side, when we see the countries of Christen-  dom taking up arms, flaunting their aircraft and  artillery in the place of the Lord's insignia of  charity, peace and love.  Ladies and gentlemen, Bismarck, an expert in the  use of force, once said: ''Ycu can do everything with  bayonets except sit on them",  Our desire has been to avoid attacking your  convictions, detracting from your dignity or  wounding your pride. Geographically we are an  Asian people but, nevertheless, our civilization ia  bound up with yours, We should like to see the  situation return to normal as soon as possible. We  should like to dress the still open wounds and to let  memory do its work - of enabling us to'forget.  Let us endeavour to keep pace, mentally, with  material progress. It sometimes seems as though  our brains remain fossilized while the world around  us goes on evolving. Ihave no desire to weigh  against one another the respective contributions of  the Orient aid ‘the Occident to the common heritage .  of mankind.” We are not here as historians,
1 would go further and, as the representative of  one of the Eastern countries speaking to the Western  countries - that is, what we call the Western  countries - I would say that we need you; we need  your capacity, to reason clearly, your intelligence,  your scientifin, intellectual and academic techniques.  We need your literature, and even, perhaps, your  poetry. We need your legal and scientific discip-  lines. We necd what you stand for inthe world and  in the evolution it is experiencing.   PLENARY  What we ask is that you should ‘establish between  us à relationship in which fear will give way to  friendship, and malice to admiration: A new factor  has entered into our relations in the past few decades.  We have côme to represent an anxious problem for  you, à problem that we would not wish to become  insoluble, for we reslize where that would lead. If,  in good faith, we strive to solve this problem, we shall  certainly manage to do so. Do not forget that your  own greatness depends on the extent to which you  propagate your science, your culture and your  education, thus forming new disciples. A civilization  or a culture which is incapable of self-propagation is  doomed to isolation and hence to disappearance.  To a certain extent you have made us what we are.  You have given us your own jdeas on many matters.  You must not be surprised or angry when you see  yourselves reflected in us. Be proud of what you  have achieved, for you have given man the finest thing  in the world; the ideal of freedom and human dignity  and the desire to improve his way of life, Do not be  afraid of this new man, who is partly your creature.  Hold out à hand to him in friendship, and do not  imitate Ugolino, who ate his own children lest they  should lose their father. .  What we ask is that you should respect our indivi-  dualit; and that, at the height of our intellectual quest,  you should not make us pay for your help with our  dignity as free men. You know that we would defend  that, even with our lives, .  These should be the aims of the major project on  the mutual appreciation of Eastern and Western  cultural values. It is our last hope and yours too.  It is the last hope of a divided world, A repproche-  ment between the Orient and the Occident is still  necessary, still possible, and it must be brought about  on the intellectual and cultural plane; I might go so  far as to say that it can only be brought about on the  intellectual and culturel plane. ;  If we first revive friendship in our hearts and  minds, political relations will then return to normal.  But we must follow that order; no other will do.  Diogenes - lantern in hand - sought a man, For  centuries, mankind, holding on to hope like a lantern -  à lantern that flickers precariously in the ill wind of  war - has been seeking something: - something which  has just come into being, amidst tears; groans and  suffering, amidst bloodshed and the horrors of war,  something which took shape in the space of a few  days, and has now grown into a force to be reckoned  with. It {s the conscience of the world community,  ot which the Indian Prime Minister spoke. I do not  know whether that conscience was dead, or whether  ithad simply never seen the light of day. - I do know  thet we have seen it rise up and walk, that we have  heard its deep tomes - issuing, resonant with hope,  from the depths of the human heart - silencing the  noise of gunfire, A world conscience is barn.  Ours is a small country which, within its frontiers,  in an Arab community, boasts both an American  University that keeps alight the flame of Anglo-Saxon  learning in the Near East and - in the same town - a  French University which, on the shores of our sea,  curries où the old Mediterranean and Latin tradition.  We have neither strength nor military power in our  favour. We have no liking for table thumping; no one  can reproach us with the least infolerance, and our  MEETINGS
95  I-8  attitude, inspired by our contacts with the nearby  sources of Christendom and of Islam, is  compounded of an immense love of peace, charity  and justice. - ; . :  We have seen tragedy taking place in the  courageous land of Egypt. With sorrow we watch  even blacker storm clouds gather over certain  parts of the world, perhaps the whole world, We  believe that agreement is always possible between  men of goodwill, We appeal to your hearts and  minds; our appeal is not yet a cry of despair, and  we are sure that it will be heard.
(8) The PRESIDENT: 1 call upon the delegate of the  United Kingdom,
(10) Sir Den Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, I find myself  in the same plight as my friend and colleague, the  delegate of thé Gold Coast. It falls to me to  address thi(<)nference in the absence of my  Minister of Education, My Minister, Sir David  Eccles, the leader of the British delegation, had  looked forward to this General Conference keenly.  His projected visit had meant much to him person-  ally. His grandfather had served in the Indian  medical service, his father was born in India and,  in the midst of his many pressing preoccupations,  my Minister had prepared ussiduously for this  Conference, Lo oo  We of the British delegation miss his presence  and guidance and I believe our Conference will be  the poorer for his absence. As a former Minister  of Works and Buildings, he would have had much  pleasure in congratulating our generous hosts on  the planning and execution of this spacious and  superbly equipped Conference Hall, This, fellow  delegates, is a major project. It has been thought-  fully designed, it has been admirably executed, and  although I have not been told what its budgetary  implications are, 1 can confidently foretell that it  will prove to be a first-class social investment.  Unesco, the proud parent of three major projects of  its own, has the honour to be the first to occupy. it.  With dué modesty; I flatter ourselves that we are  the first of a long series of distinguished gatherings,  représentative of the people of India and of all the  nations of the world. This building symbolizes the  essential part that India now plays and is destined  to play in world councils, We all réjoice - none  more than the British people’ to see the impressive  progress made by this great ‘and sncient people in  the present phase of its endegvours. = … .  Mr. President, we have met under the shadow of  grave events elsewhere in the worid, Although this  Conference is not à forum for political questions,  some preceding speakers - happily riot the hofour-  able delegate of Lebanon, t whose wise remarks  we have just listeried - have criticized my Govern-  ment's recent actions in'the Middlé East in terms  that demand some comment from me, however brief.  Ladies and gentlemen, 1 give you the most  categoric assurance that my Government's’  essential aim in intervening was simply to stop the  fighting between Egypt and Israel, and to separate  the combatants, before others became involved and  before the conflict spread. That aim has now   I-8 PLENARY MEETINGS  largely been realised, and as my Prime Minister has  said, after years of flickering war, the stage can now  be set - if the United Nations will put forward this  international police force, adequate for the task - for  negotiations, and for « ‘réal settlement of the problems  in the Middle East. -  - Mr. President, it is true that we cannot forget. this  world of ours, the world of our own experience; yet  we do well to recognize that we are meeting in the  name of the forcés that unite men, with the object of  strengthening these forces by thought and word, by  counsel, and by practical advice. It is our hope,  Mr. President, that this Conference will concentrate  upon these, and then our discussions may find a deep  unity of purpose,  This does not mean that our exchanges should lack  contemporary reality. On the contrary, we believe  that the mainténance and development of education,  science and culture within the boundaries of all '  Member States is the most urgent of their needs.  We reaffirm our fidelity to the vision of a world  where all men and women can read and write, where  all share the cultural heritage of our varied human  civilizations, and where no political or spiritual  barriers are imposed on the free movement of ideas  and of persons:  This Conference commits us to strive to secure  greater support for Unesco's work within our own  countries and, by co-operativé means, in the world  at large, My Government believes that the countries  of the world are making great progress in the field  of international education, and the British delegation  will reaffirm that, with good planning and with hard  work, Unesco haa its own unique contribution to  make.  Mr. President; we shall vote for the éxtra  . $1,000,000 for which the Director-General is asking.  We hope that this appreciable but well concelved  increase in the budget will be accepted without much  argument, so that delegates can have ample ‘time to  visualize the work of the Organization and ‘the pro-  gramme as a ‘whole, and to achieve good, 3 all round  proportions in the definition of” particular “items.  For the future, what should be our guiding  principles? At every Unesco, Confereñce in the past,  strong recommendations have been made that our  programme should be concentrated into far fewer  items, Surely ‘this is ‘good ‘advice. 1 is good : advice  large number of draft resolutions that âre being so  hurriedly submitted for our consideration.’ The  United Kirigdoen deleghtion’ views them with much  concern, because we know that every item; however  small, pleases’ sc ody and, in sn international  organisatiééi, it Téquires 8 courage ‘and unselfishness  to resist proliferation | in projects; and to champion  concentration in programmes. Wo rémäin convinced  that the’ reputation of this Organization depends upon  comparatively tew projects, nobly conceived,  carefully’ planted and successfully accomplished. It  is better to do a few things well than to dabble with  trivial wricértainty in many.  If we aré to contiñue to spread our resources ‘as  thinly as we do tiow over so many projects, we cannot  but endanger our reputation and, to that extent, fail  to attract the maximum support from our Member  States. Is it not a fact that all Ministries of
96     Education in all Member States are now desperately  short of money, of buildings and of teachers? And  are they not un pledged to do far more than they are  doing today for their own children, for their  scientists and for their artists? How can we there-  fore expect them to agree to any dramatic increase  in Unesco's resources until they are convinced that  the Organization can ‘spend money more usefully  than they, as individual States, can spend their  money on these objects at home?  We must therefore, Mr, President, ask ourselves  what is the nature of the work which Unesco could  do that no other institution could do, and which.  would strike the imagination of the world, .Every  délegate will have his own choice, and the United  Kingdom would be interested to listen to it. I offer  that of the United Kingdom with diffidence.  In the realm of education, the United Kingdom is -  convinced that the vital point in-the whole system :  is the training of teachers. It is here that a given  sum of money produces the greatest results. We  are glad, therefore, to support the major project  for the training of teachers in Latin America. We  should like to see Unesco sponsor a scheme, by  meann of which teachers from other lands could be  trained in the teacher training colleges of other  Member States, if they would be prepared to provide  places for them; certainly the United Kingdom  would be glad to play its part in a project of this  , kind.  Secondly, we favour a major project in the field  of cultural relations, and we congratulate the  Director-General on bringing forward the new  project for an exchange of information on the ;  cultures of Asia and the rest of this world, The  United Kingdom has given much preliminary thought  to this and our delegation is anxious to take a  constructive part in discussirë the proposals for  the implementation of this project.  Thirdly, the world would be greatly impressed if  Unesco ‘sponsored a scientific project that brought  striking benefits to a large number of Member © :  States, Frankly, we see no ‘point at all in spending  Unesco's rioney on such subjects as cancer, cell ’  biology; and atomic energy. Other ‘agencies with -  far more money than we can possibly have are now  working in this fiéld and wé cannot hope, indeed we  should fiot seek, to écinpète with them. On the -  other hand, the project for arid zone rese&éch has  immense ‘possibilities, and Unesco can claim this”  field as its own. Let us not be distracted, let us  concentrate our, resources ‘upon the major project  Fourthly, can we feel éertain that we are all *  living up to the ideals of the Constitution that we ’  have accepted? ‘Are we freeing the’ ‘channels 22  between nations for the pasdage of ideas’ of writing,  of broadcasts, of artists and of teachers? - Indeed;  are we making the movement of ofdinary tourists - -  the world and his wife - freer, easier?” We say ‘  that we are pledged to, ihtellectual freedomi. ‘what ©  about our booka? How much effort are we ‘making  to see that our children sre ts.ight history according  to the facts and not according to a selection of them  which may be unwittingly or deliberately false, and  that they are not indoctrinated with restricted  economic or political interpretations?   PLENARY  ; : Here are four lines of action consistent with our  Constitution, 1f we pursue them successfully they  will bring us much credit with all Member States;  but to do the four things well, we would need to devote  te them all the resources we could muster, To do so,  ve must be prepared rigorously to exclude from our  programmes activities of doubtful, or even marginal,  interest. We must deny ourselves the luxury of  selecting on a sectional and regional basis and of -  indulging in activities which give small hope of long-  term and impressive results, If we succumb to  these temptations, we run a graye risk, Mr. Presi-  dent - the risk of committing ourselves to expensive  and wrirewaiding labour and thereby damaging the  Organization's standing in public esteem. :  Mr, President and fellow delegates, I wish, in -  conclusion, to leave you in no doubt that the Govern-  ment of the United Kingdom most earnestly desires  to see Unesco win a high place in the world end to  keep it. - We have not yet achieved that end. Know-  ledge provides the means, but it is not the aim of life.  The bases for firm and lasting friendships are found  in these aims of life which we can accept as common.  The ainis that the great teachers of religions and  wisdom have insisted upon are these: that we should  respect the rule of law, the dignity of the individual,  the rights of the family and the love of freedom and of  justice. Let Unesco pursue these general objectives  without compromise within its own particular fields,  the fields of education, of science and of culture.  Thereby we may in due course become the effective  conscience of the United Nations. ’
(11) The PRESIDENT: The next speaker is the  delegate of New Zealand.
(12) Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand): Mr. President and  fellow delegates, other speakers have expressed -  with more eloquence, 1 fear, than a New Zealander  can command - the gratitude we all feel for the  hospitality extended to us by the Indian Government  and the Indian people.’ Grateful as the. members of  my delegation are for the arrangements made for our  work and our comfort; we are even more grateful, I  think, for benefits of a less obvious kind; After only  afew days in India we have already learnt something  of what a great ‘country can do, in the face of incredible  difficulties, to raise thé standard of living of its -  people; if-it has faith in itself and in its purpose. It  is a lesson worth coming to India to learn,”  .  The New Zealend delegation also wishes; with -  colleagues from’ Sher countries, to congratulate the  Director-General on his report. {We are gratified at  thé record of successful projects he has fo offer, but,  paradoxically enough, we are almost as pleased to  find a section headed "Unsuccessful Activities". It  is, if my memory serves me aright, the first time  such a heading has occurred in the report df a  Director-General, and if I may be permitted to say  so, it is a sign both of courage and of wisdom.’ It is  ‘tot easy, in an international organizatién, to admit  that an activity, dear to the heart of some delegations,  ‘has simply not succeeded, Yet common sense and  experience tell us that some projects must fail, and  I hope the Director-General will always feel free to  discuss with the General Conference our failures as  well as our obvious successes.  MEETINGS
97  u-8  It is sometimes forgotten by critics of Unesco  that most of the tasks that, in 1946, we set ourselyes  to do had never been attempted before, Only by a  miracle could all of them have succeeded. A few  of us - and as I look around this room I realize how  few - can remember the 1946 Conference in Paris,  can recall our high and often extravagant hopes,  and, I must admit, our profound ignorance of how  to translate them into action through an international  agency. We packed the programme with a miscel-  lany of projects, and have learnt only over the years  that some of them could never have been carried out  by such an Organization, .  In the years that have followed, Unesco has learnt  a great deal, and as much from its failures as from  its successes. We have learnt that there are many  desirable ends and purposes that no one, as yet, has  devised means to attain;. wé have learnt, too, that  there is a strict limit to the kinds of tasks that can  be carried out by an intérnationil agency, and that  many ave better done at the national level; we have  learnt the difficulty of finding international staff  trained and ready to carry out functions that  straddle the conventional disciplines and the  accepted professional boundaries. We have learnt,  sometimes to our sorrow, that most international  projects are more difficult, and take longer to  complete, than, in our enthusiasm, we had ever  dreamed,  One thing we have been rather slow tolearnis  that it is infinitely easier to put a new item into  Unesco's programme than it is to take an old one  out, and we are still, in some measure, suffering  from the results of the undisciplined enthusiasms of  our earliest years.. And here, I fear, I find myself  covering something of the same ground that has  been covered by my colleague of the United Kingdom  in the previous speech. As he said; at every  Conference, speaker after speaker has pressed for  a concentration of the programme. Most of us have  agreed fervently with the principle in the plenary  meeting, and have then gone off to the Programme  Commission to urge the acceptance of new and  favourite projects of our own. :  Successive Directors-Getieral and Executive.  Boards have tried to solve the problem by reorgani-  zing the programme, and some real progress  towards concentration has been made; but it hes  never béen mifficient to satisfy, I think, either them  or us. We are grateful for the ciforts they have --  made, but-we must realize that these efforts will be  largely wasted unless we; in the General Conference,  can exercise a rigid discipline and restraint upon  our natural enthusiasms. If many marginal projects  are not to be eliminated; any reorganization of the  programme is lable to become a reshuffling of the  same old cards..  The Secretariat; 1 believe; because of its greater  continuity, learns from experiencé more readily :'  than do changing ‘delegations. - Those of us who  were at Montevideo in 1954 will recall that the --  Director-General and the Executivé Board put -  before us a remodelled programme that was  intended to concentrate the efforts of the Organization.  You will remember also how the Programme  Commission was swamped by a flood of draft -  resolutions that poured in to it from delegations;   I-8 PLENARY  and will refiember, too, the desperate last minute  measurés that had to be taken to restore the balance  of the programmé, © °°  Without the help of the General Cénférence, the  Director-General will never achieve the concentrated  programme the’ world éxpects of Unesco. We delc-  gates are the ones who préss for the retention of old  projects and the addition of hew onés, irrespective of  their ‘effect upon the unity of the programme, It is  natural that it should bé so. Many of us ‘are special-  iste with a passionate and overriding interest in our  Spectalities. "Most éf us are relativesy polite and  folk who hesitate to voté’ against’ projects which  other specialists clearly hold deir, Few ol us have  either the time or the traiding to séé the programme  as a whole, The things wé want are, on the whole,  very good things.‘ But they may not be good for Unesco,  and they may play havoc with a well thought out and  co-ordinated programme. We may; that is to say,  tear the programme apart by our own enthusiasms  unless we are prepared to be ruthless with some of  our own favourite projects. Unesco has never suffered  from having 106 few ideas; it has often suffered from  having too many. To geta project on to a programme,  it {a not sufficlent to prove that it ls an intrinsically  good project. It should be necessary to prove also  that it is the kind of project that can be done by an  international agency, and not by a national one; that  no one else is likely to undertake it if we do not; that  it has priority over some other project already in the  programmé; and that it leads to a concentration of  the programme, and not to even greater diversity.  If it fails to pass all these tests, any project should  be rejected.  It i} only against this background that I can explein  the attitude of the New Zealand delegation to the pro-  gramme, and to the numerous draft résolutions that  seek to add to it. By and large, we think the pro-  gramme is an improvement on any that has gone  before it, and we would congratulate the Director-  General and the Executive Board on the skill and care  they have put into it. But it still seems to us to be  spread too wide and too thin. We are aware, of  course, that the process of concentration must  necessarily be a gradual one, and slower than we  would wish: :  We welcome the whole conception of major projects,  although the funds proposed for them seem inadequate  for anything but à very modest beginning. If they are  successful, they must, as the years go by, make bigger  and bigger claims on Unesco's budget. - This raises a  dilemma which the Conference would do well to face  in advance. It seems to us that Unesco cannot anti-  cipate; over the next few years, any very rapid  increase in the budget level. If the major projects  are to expand, therefore, either they must suck other  minor projects into their vortex, or some minor  projects must be eliminated altogether. Thé only  alternative would bu an even thinner spreading of our  resources over an even wider field, ‘As I have  already indicated, the New Zealand delegation is  strongly opposed to this last possibility.’  It is for this reason that my delegation has brought  forward no new projects of its own, and will, most  reluctantly, find itself on occasion compelled to vote  against new projects put forward by other delegations,  even though we believe them intrinsically good.    MEETINGS  Mr. President, this tenth anniversary of Unesco'y  birth is a great temptation to those of us who have  known the Organisation from its beginnings to  reminisce, to look back with nostalgia, to our  simpler faiths in those earlier years. It isa  temptation I must resist, But a tenth anniversary  does, perhaps, call for some renewed statement of -  faith. Those of us who have been with Unesco for  many years, have, like all of you, known frustrations  and disappointments, That was the inevitable  result of our. own ignorance and inexperience. I can  only say that we in New Zealand, who have been in  the Organization since it began, have lost none of |  our faith in the ends and purposes for which Unesco  stands, and none of our belief that these ends can -  some day be achieved,  In a small and isclated country such as mine,  Unesco has, for hundreds of us, opened up windows  on a wider world. If that world has proved to be - .  more complicated and mare difficult than, in our  isolation, we had thought, that is no reason for ‘  losing faith in the Organization. In men of goodwill,  the discovery of new difficulties in a cause in which  they deeply believe should serve only to call up new  strengths.
(13) The PRESIDENT: I am now honoured to  relinquish the Chair to another great friend of ours,  Dr. Enrique Arroyo of Ecuador.  (Mr. Arroyo (Ecuador) took the Chair.)
(14) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): 1 call upon the head ‘of the delegation of .  the United States of America. ‘
(15) Mr. ALLYN (United States of America): Mr.:  President, fellow delegates, in the name of my _ .;  Government and of our delegation to the Conference, -
1 wish to thank the Government and the people-of : ;  India for the painstaking efforts which have gone -  into the Conference arrangements, The United  States delegation 1s deeply grateful to our hosts for  the hospitality, the cordial atmosphere prevailing  in this splendid capital city, which provides an ideal  environment for a fruitful meeting,” Our delegation  has come to New-Delhi, eager to listen, eager to  learn; and to contribute what it can to the delibera-  tions of the Conference, We know we will be  rewarded by this experience, and that this Confer- -  ence will produce concrete results. It is further  gratifying to be the guest if a nation so historic, so  rich in culture and noble traditions. Our delegation  is also aware of India's brilliant accomplishments.  within the framework of its five-year plan, Its  social reforms within the past five years have. .  captivated the imagination of the American people.  It is particularly fitting that the Member States .  should have chosen New Delhi as the site for this ‘  session of the General Con‘errnçe, as Asia contains  half the world's population; te whale area is in the  process of an evolution of grect significance for  people everywhere.  Asia has been called the cradle of civilization, -  Here man first created and practised the arts of :  writing, arithmetic and map making. Here is the .  origin of loaguages, like Sanskrit, Hebrew and   PLENARY  others, which i are the foundation of Western culture,  Asians gave things their names, developed the almanac,  the calendar; and bettered the wheel; no great religion  on earth is’ foreign to this area, From Asia; peoples  and cultures travelled West, leaving their imprint on  the shores of the Mediterranean and the Atlantic.  There is sometinies'a tendency to emphasize the  differences and misunderstandings between Asia and  the West, while overlooking the many essential planes  we possess in common. For example, most of the  oew Asian governments have emphasized the demo-  cratic process, the équality of fan before the law and  the importance of individual rights.” These principles  have long been the foundation of most of the Western  systems of government, which havé not hesitated to  defend them when heed arose. -Here then, rather than  differencé, is agréement on essentials, : We both  believe in constitutional representative govérnment  and the democratic process. We believe in respon-  sible legislatures, in judiciaries independent of -  political pressire, and we insist that our government  officials be accountable to the people,’ Nevertheless,  as Prime Minister Nehru has already pointed out so  movingly, over our peacéful assembly there is a  shadow of political tension and armed conflict:  We fully associate ourselves with the Prime  Minister's concern that; in the Middle East and in  Hungary, thé peace of the world is in jeopardy. We  share the hope of all that the cease fire in Egypt will  lead to an énauring peace, and that the heroic revolt  in Hungary will bring true independence to that country.  The situation is grave, but it would be still more  serious if we abandoned our task in the face of these  depressing events; to those who believe in the goals  of Unesco, the present crisis is another proof of the  continuing, if not; indeed, of the increasing import-  ance of the Organization. Temporary failures and  setbacks do not disprove the validity of our objectives:  they mere ly spotlight how much more we need to do.  We should, of course, recognize that there will  always be différences of viewpoints, and differences  in methods of reaching similar objectives, Unesco  offers a forum in which a frank exchange of views  can take: place.” =  . Toa representative of the American community,  such a frank exchange is welcome. Within our  country we have a great diveraity of cultural, social  and economic institutions and groups, all of which  enrich our lives.” This diversity is a distinguishing  characteristic of American society, :We.welcome  mw ideas from every source, and it is no raore valid  to place a single label on the American society than  it is to place a single label on the different Asian  cultures and ways of life. - The use of terms like.  capitalism; socialism, free enterprise and State  ownership grossly oversimplify the complex societies  in which all of-us-live. The American people have  evolved a dynamic economy which has supplied  material things in great abundance and at the same  time has brought a full flowering of human freedom.  The sharing of national products between investors  and workers, co-operation between management and  labour, the partnerships of public ownership and  private enterprise, the personal participation in the  governing process by individual citizens, all of these  are part and parcel of the American society.  The basic conflict in the world today is not    MEETINGS 1-3  socialism versus capitalism} it is the conflict of  freedom versus the lack of freedom, Itisa ;  question of the freedom of men, of nations, to choose  for themselves the kind of life - political, social, -  cultural, religious and economic - they want to live,  In this conflict; thé United States of America stands  for tresdom and the dignity of man, It is only those  who will deny this freedom to others who arè the  ideological opponents of democracies, whether they  be Asians or Westerners; and regardless of. their  ‘economic ‘system. ‘ Unesco's rôle is to try and |  bring about a mutual understanding of the great  diversities which characterize our respective  societies; bit it is not its function to try and  resolve political differences, These are the proper  concern of other United Nations organizations,  Our Organization, Unesco, is now ten years old;  the catalogue of its accomplishments is a long one,  but it is no cause for any relaxation of effort, Let  us say, rather, that it Is the base for future.  progress, The educational, scientific and cultural  problems which still confront us are tremendous.  We need only study Unesco's programme to be  impressed with its magnitude. We know that :, |  children in schools are outnumbered by’ children who  have no schools, Illiteracy is widespread, despite  the great strides made by science. We have been  able to do a little about converting arid and semi-  arid lands to productive purposes. Social sclences  have only begun their exploration of the causes of  international tension, of discrimination of many.  kinds, and of tha capacity of societies to adapt to  technological change, . In the days ahead, we will  teke up the question of an improved mutual under-  standing of Asian and Western cultures, We will  discover in this area alone a truly massive array of  unexplored problems and possibilities, The  Director-General has presented us with programme  proposals built solidly on past experience. He and  the Secretariat deserve our full support...  In the view of the United States delegation, the  Director-General has made a sound recommendation  in the selection of three vital areas of work for the  development of long-term projects. Acceleration  of teacher training in Latin America will aid nearly  a third of Unesco's membership; the promotion of  research on increasing the productivity of arid  regions; with their wide encircling problems,  affects more than 40 member nations; the develop-  ment of mutual appreciation of Eastern and Western  cultures is cf interest to ali nations represented  here. The United States of America expects to play  its part fully in these major projects and to derive  benefit from them. . .  Americans have long been interested in Asian’  history, the arts, the traditions, the philosophies  and the peoples of Asia, This interest has grown  rapidly since 1945. Some of our great foundations  have undertaken programmes for the exchange of  scholars, for the development of research on Asian  cultures, for the’ training of language specialists  and for a host of other activities, More than 50  American universities have spécial study pro-  grammes dealing with one or mare of the cultural  areas of Asia. Some 800 organizations and institu-  : tions are carrying on activities related to this area.  Last spring, the United States National Commission   I1-8  was host to a distinguished group of cultural: los dors  from ten countries of South and South Fast Asis.  am delighted tô see some of them at this cenferense.  They tourad the United States of America, from San  Francisco on our west coast to Boston on our east  coast, visited our universities and cultural centres,  lived in our cities, saw our farms and our factories  and came to imow our people. It is not for us $o say  what our Asian visitors leärnt from this experience,  but we can say that the impact on American partici-  pants ‘was signifiéant.- In a few months, our National  Commission will publish a report on this conference,  which will be available to Unesco. : . -  In 1957, our Natiotial Commission will hold a  nation-wide conference, perhaps in San Francisco,  to discuss the developmeént of mutual appreciation of  the cultures of Asis and the West, as exemplified by  the major’ project ‘on this subject. -  We look forward to the next two yeirs of Unesco! 8  work with hope and ‘confidence, : Thé growing influ-  ence cf thé Organization should enhance the prestige  of Unesco and ‘attract more active co-operation on the  part of the Member States. Co-operation is indis-'  pensable to achieving our common objectives.  We pledge t6 Unésto the continuing support of our  Government ard National Commiésion. We are  committed fo the principles expresséd in the -  Constitution of Une£co, principles which harmonize  with those of our own Constitution ‘and Bill of Rights.  Holding fast to these principles, this Conference will  zealously guard the continued integr ity of the ~~  Organization and its programine; ‘There must Ba no  attempt to destroy ‘these resolutions or work plans  for political or propaganda purpogés. “The support of  my’ country for Unesco is linked to its support for the  United Nations itself. A few days ago, our President  took occasion to reveal the position of thé United -  States Government toward the United Nations, in view  of the present ‘crisis in the Middle Edst and the dark  events in Eastern Europe." He’ ‘said "The processes  of the United Nations are not éxhaisted: ‘1'am even  more deeply convinced that thié processes of the  United Nations need to be furilier developed and  strengthened, The pissionaté’ ‘loging’ for peace on  the part of all the péépies'àf the earth; compels us  to su pport the search for new ‘and ‘more effective  inetruménts ‘of justice; * : To‘our principles, guiding us  in this quest, we must stand fast.” ‘In 80 doing; we can  honour’ the hopes of all mei in à world in which peace  will truly ‘and’ justly’ réign". - Néither are the processes  of Uniesco exhausted; the’ potential of the Organization  has scarcely been tapped.’ Despite the impressive  achievements of tén yrarso of effort, we all khow that  they have only begun. ‘But our task 15 not to seek the  spectacular victory, aus is the slow, methodical  and sométimés thankless task of him who plants  trees, in the hope ‘that füture generations will reap  the fruits of his labour: ’  As wi carry on’ the work of this Conference hére in  New Delhi, we are deply’ conscious of the spirit of  the father of thé Indisn’ nation, Mahatma Gandhi, who,  throughout his lite, proclaimed the essential unity and  dignity of man, the goals for which the whole of the  Unesco programme strives.   (16) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon thé head of the delegation of Pakistan.
(17) . Mr, ZAHIRUDDIN (Pakistan): Mr. President  and fellow delegates, I would like to express, on bes  half of my delegation, our pleasure in participating  in the ninth session of the General Conference of  Unesco. .We are indeed happy that the Conference  is being held in New Delhi, which is a recognition o  the importance that the Asian region has io the |  councils of the world. . ;
1 wish sincerely to join other, ‘dslegations” in the’ ;  tribute which they have paid to the work of the |;  Director-General; his Secretariat and the Exeottin  Board in furthering the cause of Unesco, 83  We are meeting at a time when the peace, of the ",  world has been disturbed, Egypt, a small power, :  has been the victim of brute force by mighty powers.  That brute force should haye been employed by .  countries who are among the chief | architects of the  United Nations makes the - situation particularly -  deplorable.- This constitutes a serious challenge  to the prestige and effectiveness of the United  Nations. Pakistan has condemned this action and |  has appealed to thé leaders of these powers,: ..  individually and through the United Nations, to desist  from the use of force, and to respect the decision of  the United Nations by immediately withdrawing their  forces from the territories of the victims. Hungary  is also struggling for her right of self-determination  against the might of a great power, ‘ It is the earnest  hope of my delegetion that peace will soon return to  these countries, with justice and honour to their  peoples.’ - HR .  Unesco was established to build up the defences  of peace in the minds of men, - It is, therefore, a  matter of genuine regret that Unésco should be  meeting at a tite when there is a real danger. of  war. But this does not imply any failure of Unesco.  On the contrary; it only emphasizes how important  our work is and makes it clear that we should all |  redouble our efforts so that Unesco may. succeed in  achieving its ultimate goal." The present situation:  is à challenge which we should accept, dedicating -  ourselves more than ever before to the cause for  which Unesco stands. : ELE 0  Mr. President, I have listened to the speeches a  my fellow delegates with’ great interest and I feel  happy that, in the short space of ten years, Unesco  should have attempted so much with its limited - |  resources‘: Unesco's mission isa tremendous one.  Unesco believes that; so long as there are marked -  disparities in’ the economic, educational and social  standards of the different peoples. no lasting peace  can be secured.  Unesco's effort is, therefore, to  assemble people from ‘all-over. the world to discuss  ways and means of raising the economic conditions  of the underdeveloped countries and theif education-  al, cultural and social standards. It is not easy to.  remove these disparitice in a short period. What :  Unesco has been able to do is to spotlight | the  existing problems and to arouse thé moral  consciousness of the world to solve those probleins.  Gradually but surely’, Unesco will help to raise à the  social, cultural and economic standards of the.  underdeveloped countries and thus to promote 8  better understanding between them. …. . . .  Some people may criticize Unesco for having  failed to achieve any substantial results. ‘This -  would, however, be a very unfair criticism of this    PLENARY MEETINGS  Organization.” Wé ail know “that Unesco is functioning  with very | limited resouriiés ‘and a comparatively  small budget. I would be nothing short of a miracle  to expect any organization’ to obliterate, in a short  space of tén years, mutual’ ‘Jeplaisiés, conflicting  claims and territorial ambitions that have béen  entertained by various nations of the world for many  centuries,  -°  - Pakistan joined Unesco, in the year 1949 and I am  to say that wé have taken’ active interést in its  deliberations, and in the implementation of its pro-  : Fant ty pre the many opportu  ‘afforded to Pakistani        people in ng these | pi m "  Mi. Président, my delegation has studied the  programme of Unesco for the text two years ‘and  would wish to suppért ‘all those proposals which are  calculated to promote’ fuiid al education,  technical assistance,’ ‘scientific research and cultural       ig like to draw thé ge proles of the Conference  particulérly ‘ to the projects ‘which’ deal with mutual  appreciation of Eastern and Western cultures, and  arid zone research.  Itis récoghized that unléss there is Fy propér  appreciation of the. cultural values of East and West,  misunderstanding and suspicion will continue to exist,  making the task of péace ‘difficult. "I'do not wish to  , siicipate the discussions on this project, but I feel  that I must emphasise an important aspect of this  programme. Many, in the East ) MOLY particularly’  the educated classes, are familiar with Western  culture, but very few in the West are familiar with  our culture.’ It is riecessaty that both East and West  should kmow.each other's culture,’ Ii this  connexion, 1 may be permitted to’ nay that the  contribution of Islamic clvillzatign : to the cultural  heritage of mankind doe not seem to have received  the recognition 1 that it erves,, “May | I express the  fervent hope of my delegation | that the contribution  made by { ‘the Islamic world in the reaim of art,  architecture and culture will find its rightful place  in the publications ¢ of Unesco,  ‘Pakistan is a bridge connecting South East Asia  and the Middle East. In view of our Serie,    Indus a civilization. We are indeed sen: that  ¢ of the most important monuments of the  iistic era are located in our country. Pakistan  is, therefore, well Buited to take an active interest in  this programme.’ .  I would also like to make a réference ‘to ‘the arid  sone project which" Unesco has undertaken. ; ‘We know  that many of the conflicts, and wars which have ‘taken  place and have brought so ‘much misery to the world  would have been avoided, had there been more food  in the world and a more equitable distribution of  wealth, There are yast tracts of sandy deserts all  over the world and if only we could ulilize some of  these areas to yield more tood and other necessaries  of life, ours would be a happier world, It is indeed  gratifying to note that among the areas selected by
1-8  Unesco for these projects] certain’ parts ‘of Pakistan  are also included. I hope that it will be possible  for Unesco to set up an Arid ‘Zone Research Centre  in Pakistan as soon as circuinstinces permit In  thts connexion, 1 would like to mention that, during  the last few years, Pakistan has been ‘visited by a  series of floods; which ‘have brought « death and ;  devastation in their wake. . Our neighbour, India,  has also suffered from similar calgimities. Indeed,  these ficods have become an annual feature in the  Indo- Pakistani’ continent: - These’ fièods impose  tremendous strains ¢n our reso ‘ces and, among  others, they have caused a great food: shortage  which has compelled us té import from ‘abroad.  May I suggest that Unesco should undertake a  project’ to find effective theans of flood ‘control, so  that the Teséurces‘of the ‘countries visited by these  floods’ éañ be spent ‘on more constructive purposes  than providing relief to the sufferers?’ .  Beforé I resume my seat, 1 would like to offer my  earnest prayer that, before the Conference  concludes, the clouds of war may dispersé and -  peace may return to the troubled wozld, with justice  and honour to those who have suffered a grievous  wrong. This prayer is in consonance with the  mission of Pakistan. We believe in peace and  goodwill and we shall continue to co-operate with  all those who are pledged to the cause of peace and  justice.
(18) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): 1 call upon the delegate of India.
(18) Mr. HUSAIN (Indta); Mr, President, fellow  delegates, ladies and geîtlemen, as | listened to  the speeches of fellow delegates’ from various lands  during the last two days; I was overwhelmed, 1 must  confess, with the sentiments of friendly "goodwill  and affectionate regard expressed’ for my. country  by speaker after speaker, The ‘indian delegation  has humility enough’ to know’ that we. ‘do not deserve  all the ‘praise’ showered on us; but we are human  enough to appreciate and ¢ righ the affection of  sister nations. Our 1ôtig st, characterized by  profound philosophical speculation studded with  exquisite patterns of artiste and literary achieve-  ment and, sbové ail, by outstarding examples of  virtuous, and ‘beneficent living does, we realize,  give us’ 8 mie ‘title to that "affection. Co  But wé also passed through a terrible night ‘at  demoralization ‘and ‘decay. under the crippling weight     “of alién ‘domination’ We could weil have been  forgotien by thé rest ‘of the ‘world. It is’, perhaps,  the cireumst: ance that, in our period of misfortune,  we could throw out numberless nameless men ‘and  women who chose, under the transmuting leadership  of the father of € our freedom, Mehatina Gandhi, to  r ‘comfort and liberty to dea  ho re ‘prépared to ‘die while réfusing to xii,  that we have ‘established sonie title to this afféction.  We are ‘conscious of the immerse responsibility  our freedom has placed on‘us of fashioning our.  national life in our own way, “of building up new,  patterns of happy, graceful, non- exploitative living,  and of working for peace and understanding and  friendliness among the peoples of the world. Long,  indeed, is the way and hard, but we are marching
1-8 PLENARY MEETINOS  of under the leadership. of another great son of qur  motherland, our Prime Minister, who is performing  the stupendous task of building up a people with the  insight of à seer, the competence of a master mason  and the sympathetic understanding of a great educator.  We are pard proud of our Gandhi and our  Nehru, but we Pr fool ey are not exclusively ours; they  already belong to the world and we take pride in the  fact that you all share them with us, and that gives  us your affection, I thank you all most sincerely and  most profusely on behalf of the Indian delegation for  the very warm sentiments towards India expressed  from this rostrum,  We hopé your visit to this country in connexion with  the Unesco Cot.ference will give you an opportunity  of seeing something of this land and appreciating -  something of its problems as a member of this great  Organization of education, science and culture, A  great effort is being put forth for education, science  and culture in this country, side by side with the  Herculean attempts to improve the material well-  being of the people. .  During the brief period of our present independent  national existence, the number ‘of primary schools  has increased by nearly 50,000; the number of pupils  by more than 5,000,000. There are at present some
265,000 elementary schools with an enrolment of over
22,000,000 pupils, The total annual expenditure on  primary education is of the order of 500,000,000  - rupees, There is such pressing demand for  educational provision throughout the country. as, a  few years ago, would haye been incredible. ; “The  contributions of land, money and physical labour tor  building up village schools gre "general one district  is reported to have put up "600 schoo} bu dings in this  manner. In backward areas ‘previously entirely  neglected, , like the Tribal Areas of the North’ Eastern  Frontier Agency. where not a single, school existed in
1947, there are more than 2,000. schools toda -  In céntormity with | the ‘essentiaily democra ic and  non-exploitative society which wè seek to establish,  productive manual work is being made the pivotal  centre, of the educational process, ‘and the Echeme of  basic education which seeks to make education free  and compulsory for all boys ‘and girls. betwéen the  ages of 6 ard 14, to make. the’ ‘mother tongue of the  child the medium of instruction, to make productive  manual work, thé social environment, ‘and the physical  environment of the child, the three main centres of  an integrated instruction, and to bring the school’  into a closer organic relation with the life of the  village or of the urban community, has been accepted  as the national ‘objective; serious attempts are being  made to establish new basic schools and to convert  old ones to this type  The scheme of basic éducation’ ‘is an attempt to  transtorm schools from seats ‘of theoretical,’  intellectual one sidedness, info those of practical,  human many sidedness; ‘from places of pasaive book  learning to seats of active purposeful wérk - work  seriously plannéd ; honeëtiÿ, executed, uñéparingly  criticized and genercusly | appreciated; from places  of individual self-seeking ‘to those of devotion to  social ends. It holds ‘out the promise that education,  transformed into disciplined purposeful activity, will  imply in the life around the ennoblement of work‘  from a tedious imposition into a serious pleasure, an
102  exhilarating exercise in self-expression and social  usefulness. Jt is a great educational experiment  which descryes to be carefully watched by ail  interested in _sqund education, | .  There were some 13,000 secondary schibols in
1947; there ars over 27,500 today, with aii enrol-  ment of nearly 7,000 000 pupils and an annual )  expenditure of the order of 450,000,000 rupees, |  Significant changes are under way with regard to  the content and the methods of education at this  stage also,  The number of univeratties in, Indja before 1047  was 21. With the establishment of the’ ‘separ: ‘ate  sovereign State of Pakistan, * , neighbour to yhom  we are bound by a thousand bonds. af common  cultural association and achievements, and with  whom we are “anxious to live on terms of the . |  friendliest neighbourliness)" thé number of üldver- :  sities decreased, but we have, ‘during the'yesra of  our independence ' established à à umber of new  universities, and thé total is'now 31. The number  of students in the ‘arjversities and their affiliated  colléges his, during thé years of freedom,  increased by over 50 pei-'cent, The’ number in the  technical and ab ol onal colleges has more than  doubled. The number of colleges of general arts  and science instruction is over 650 and there are  nearly 300 technical and professional colleges.  Over 57,000" students graduated’ from the ‘arts and  science colleges last year aud over 32,000 from thé  professional colleges. Over 350 ,000 students are  receiving general education at the university stage,  and oyer 120,000 in technical and professional  institutions, =  The ‘expenditure on universities has more than  doubled and the inbtitutions of higher learning are  poised for great improvements and vast éxpansion.’  Facilities for scientific’ reseérch are being provided  very liberally at the uniyersities; and 18 national  laboratories, some of which | are among the best in  the world, have been established.’  Extensioti’ programmes ot social education for  adults have bee taken in hand; aiming ‘at literacy,  knowledge of the rules’ “of health and hygiene, -  training tor the Improvement of economic status, à  sense of citizenship with adequate ‘donaciousness à  rights and duties, and Healthy forms of rééreation -  suited to the nééds of the community’ and the -  individual, The éssistance and advice of Unesco in  this behalf has been most welcome and effective.  A great deal af social education literature has been  produced but much more is needed. -À’ Central  Soclal Welfare Board hds been’ established to stimu-  late and ‘¢d-ordinate the work of the various bodies  active in the field. The armed forces have -.  vigorous programmes not only to remové flifteracy  but also to emphasize civic virtues aiid moral  valües in their éducational work. Illiteracy has,  indeed, been wiped out-in the armed forces.  There is à véritable renalssance of art and  literature. The national Government has been  keenly interested in stimulating and promoiing it  and has established: -
(1) a Sangeet Natak Akademi to preserve our  heritage in dance, drama and music and to enrich #;
(2) à Sahitya Akademi to presérve our heritage  in letters and to stimulate, by awards and
1   PLENARY  distinctions, new writing in original and in translation;
(3) à Lalit Kala Akademi to encourage and promote  study and research in the field of painting, sculpture,  architecture and applied ‘arts, ‘  A National Art Tressure Fund has been created,  A National Museuni and à National Gallery of Modern  Art have been set up at New Delhi and may be trusted  to repay the trouble of a visit by distinguished  delegates assembled here,  During the last four years we have succeeded in  setting in motion a very significant programme of  community development which is on its way to be-  coming à nation-wide programme. It seeks to raise  the level of living of all the hundreds of millions of  India’s citizens and seeks to involvé all these  citizens in all her 558,000 villages iri alded self-help  improvement uidertakings. It has been rightly des-  cribed by an eminent American sociologist, Dr. Carl  Taylor, as the "most gigantically planned aid govern-  mentally administered programme of its kind in ‘the  history of the world", "No other country in the world  is so heroically attempting to develop hundreds ot  millions of local people and hundreds of thousands of  local communities by democratic methods as India."  There are 800 development blocks and 1,700 social  education organizers on thé job. Fifteen thousand  basic schools havé been established under this pro-  gramme, 7,000 old schools converted to the basic  school type; 39,000 adult education centres have been  started; over a million adults made literate; 96,000  community cenitrés have been established; 68,000  youth clubs and people!s organizations have been set  up; 80,000 studerits have participated in summer  camps; 33,000 villege leaders have been trained.  Thid is by.tio méans an exhaustive account of what  is happening in the fields of education, science and  culture, and is intended only to indicate that great and  significant developments are taking place in all these  fields. But no one ié more conscious than we are  that miich more remains to be done,  The country is so vast, its problems so big, that  for sheer size even great efforts seem to be of little  significance. But we are determined to peraevere  steadily in the great endeavour, for nothing less than  the future of our people is involved in it and we feel  that a country is free just as much and just ss long as  {ts education enables it to be.
1 would now like, with your permission, Sir, to make  a few observations about the reports of the Director-  General and the programme of action for 1957-1958,  I wish, in the first instance, to congratulate the  Director-General on the thoroughness and competence  with which the documents have been prepared. The  Indian delegation is fully conscious of the immense  magnitude and complexity of Unesco's work, which  sims at covering the whole field of education, science  ‘and culture all over the world; and we can, therefore,  well appreciate how valiantly and conipetently the  Director-General and his colleagues have struggled  to deal with it. The Indian delegation wishes to  register appreciation for what has been a¢hieved and  general approval of what is sought to be undertaken  in the next two years.  Subject to these observations, 1 would like, however,  to say that we feel that the comments made by the  Executive Board on the Director-General's reports,  both with regard to substance and pattern, are such
103     MEETINGS Iu-8  as would ensure à mors effective presentation and  may be accepted, The Indian delegation will be  happy if, parallel to the Director-General's official  report, some other more selective; simply written  and perhaps properly illustrated reports were also  published to suit different levels of readers,  Unesco may be an organisation of governments but  it ie the hope of the ordinary man, Unesco may not  hide its light under tons of paper,  With regard to the budget proposals, the Indian  delegation would urge consideration of the possi-  bility of a larger budget based on incressed contri-  butions by Member States, The construction of the  defences of péace in the minds of men in à world  much too preoccupied with the instruments of war  should claim much more of the world's resources  than the pitiable little amount the Organization bas  at its disposal.  The Indian delegation would ke to stress the  need for greater scrutiny of the various international  non-governmental organisations which are given  subventiais by Unesco, It'would also like to stress  the need for deyoting more of Unesco’ s resources  to the Aid programme for Member States,  We are specially. interested in Unesco's pro-  gramme for the improvement of textbooks and  teaching materials, and heartily welcome the  proposal to hold a meeting in 1958 in Asia to con-  sider the treatment of the West in Asian textbooks.  We also wish to emphasize that the recommendations  made at à recent meeting of a committee of experts  on the treatment of Asian cultures in Western  textbooks and teaching materials be given due  consideration, followed by. adequate action, -  The Indian delegation is specially interested in  the Associated Schools Project in education for  international understanding and in fundamental  education, and would like to see thst increasing  assistance is forthcoming for these, as indeed for  all projects which widen the impact of Unesco's  work on the lives of the people. . .  The Government of India is keenly interested in  Unesco's programme for the improvement of  scientific documentation. . It has already established  an Indian National Scientific Documentation Centre  in the National Physical Laboratory with the  assistance of Unesco, and also proposes to establish  a Terminolagical Bureau. - Increased resources can  make these serve many of the neighbouring couniries.  Under the social sciences programme, the Indian  delegation would suggest the strengthening of the  Project on the objective study of the means of  promoting peaceful co-operation, by the inclvsion  of an objective study of the means of promoting  peaceful coexistence of different ideologies and  systems as an éffective means of promoting peaceful  co-operation.  Under cultural activities, the indian delegation  would like to urge strongly the need for expanding  the scope of the project on reading materials for  new literates, which has great significance for the  work of promoting international understanding in  countries which have come into their own in recent  years. We would even hope that, at some early  stage, this will be taken up as one of the major  projects.  The project on the translation of representative
1-8  works requires, from thé nature of the case, to be  undertaken on a long-term basis, The Indian delega-  tion, therefore ; thinks that Unesco should sliot funds  every year and that they should be allowed to accu-  mulaté and be utilized as a publications fund,  The Indian delegation wishes to indicate its approval  for the three major projects suggested for the next  two years, It is interested in all, but particularly in  the project on the mutual appreciation of Eastern and  Western cultural values. Placed in the hands of .  experts and specialists, the vagueness of the project  is likely to be emphasized, It has been held that the  East and the West are not #ven geographical entities,  There is more valid distinction between the north and  the south, highland and lowland, colder and warmer  regions. East and West have no dividing line, no  fixed frontiers. This may be so in many tields, But  it is not really geographical distinction that is sought  to be made." What is implied is a difference in culture  and character, in political and social circumstances,  in the conception of the individual and society, in the  choice of emphaals on the way to establish a  civilized existence: the way inwards or the way of  social ethics, and the way forwards or the way of  rational techniques.  The Eait's greatness is supposed to lie’ in her  ethics, the West's in her techniqués. These are  certainly not precise ‘statements and the situation of  modern life in ohe world urgently requires the  elimination of whatever precision they may have.’  The challenge’ of clir emerging world requires the  coming together of the saint and the hero, of Buddha  and Siegfried, of rational technique and ethical control.  Mankind is marching towards an ethically regulated  and rationally efficient life. It is therefore essential  that thé two important elements in thé evélution of  modern life should consciously’ learn to understand  and appreciate eich other and learn from each other.  The Indian delegation, therefore, thinks that it is  only right and proper that Unesco should undertake  this task. But, with the extremely meagre resources  at our. disposal for this mejor project, it would be  necessary to evolve a programmé which would take  full advantage of all that might be in progress already  in 'variôus places; and to apply the meagre resources  at points of the widest general impact. - A committee  of comtnon sense may be able to make good use of  the advice of experts in evolving a workable and  uséful programme under this project.” -
1 think I have taken a good deal of your time and  must conclude by referritig to the sad circumstances  in which we are meeting here today. I was present  at the London Conference in 1945 which gave “Unesco  its Constitution.’ The world had just come out of a  terrible catastrophe. It kitew what it meant and -  seemed determined that that should never happen  again; and this Organization was set up for ¢onstruct-  ing the defences of peace in the minds of men. We  should be grateful for what has been achieved during  these years but thé naked acts of aggression which  have disfigured, in recent weeks, the history of the  New Man we thought was emerging, and all that has  been happening in Egypt and Hungary as we sit here,  show only too clearly that the defences of peace that  we set out to construct in the minds of men have been  very flimsy indeed.  But we are an educational organization and there
104  PLENARY MEETINGS  are only two persons in the world who never give -  up hope, à mother in her child and a true educator  in her ward, We shall not lose hope, but we cannot  afford to be complacent, We know we are spn: .,  intergovernmental organization and governments  are governments, But we should also remember «  that the preamble of our Constitution begins with  the words: "The governments of the States parties  to this Constitution, on behalf of their peoples,  declare ,.."". We owe a responsibility to our  people to see that our governments do not  tranagress; if we in this Organization should  represent the conscience of the world we have also  to be true to our own conscience,  The responsibility of the intellectual leaders, of  the educator, the scientist, the artist, to put forth  the last ounce of his energy to see that mankind  does not resort to barbarism is very great indeed.  I hope and pray that not one of us here assembled  will shirk that load.
(20) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spraish); 1 call upon the head of the Turkish  delegation.
(21) . Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, fellow delegates, before  commenting briefly on the Director-General's two  reports on the Organization's activities during 1935  and the first half of 1956, and on the Proposed  Programme and Budget for 1957-1958, the Govern-  ment of Turkey wishes to express its lively  gratitude to the Government of India, which has  given all Member States the opportunity of becoming  acquainted with a great nation whose thought has  left its mark not only on a whole continent but on  mankind everywhere. We are most happy to meet  in this land of pure human values, a land of philo-  sophers and sages, whose teachings have always  guided men towards the highest spiritual and moral  planes. We are particularly glad to be in this  country with which; for centuries, we have  exchanged ideas and values, and we hope that this  cultural tradition will continue for the greater good  of our two peoples, for we aré well aware that, in  this age of democracy and universal values; India  is one of mankind's richest sources of spiritual  guidance.  We also wish to congratulate the Executive Board  and the Director-General of Unesco on the way in  which they have prepared the Proposed Programme  and Budget for 1957-1958. This programme should  be a useful and effective instrument for the advance-  ment of the aims of the Organization, We are  pleased to note that Unesco'à programmé takes  increasing account of the real neéds of countries,  in the spheres coming within its scope.  During the past two years, Unesco's relations  with Member States have developed considerably.  This, we feel, is of fundamental importance in  making our activities effective, and it augurs well -  for Unesco's future. Our thanks are due to the -  Director-General who, in the last two years, has  made a special effort to establish closer collabo-  ration between Unesco and its Member States.  Attention should also be drawn to the fact that the  implementation of the programme of Aid to Member
1   PLENARY MEETINGS  States and the extension of the Expanded Programme  of Technical Assistance will enable Member States to  schiove positive results in the various fields of  Unesco's activities,  Unesco's relation) with the international non-  governmental organizstions are vndoubtedly of parti-  cuar importance vis-à-vis the programme, and the  the Director-General's report on the Organization's .  activities states clearly the scope and scale of this  co-operation, We believe that these organizations  should be given every possible encouragement, so  that they may be associated even more closely with  Unesco's wark,  With regard to education; our Government is of  opinion that the major project on extension of primary  education in Latin America marks fn important step  forward in Unesco's programme, and it will have our  full support since this problem is one of our Govern-  ment's constant concerns. We are ‘confident that in  the future other regions, such as the Near and Middle  East, will be selected for such projects,  We feel that the question of education for interna-  tional understanding should be given suitable promin-  ence in the programme. This problem deserves our  attention more than ever, Unesco has already  achieved notable results in this particular field, A  suitable programme, drawn up by the Organization,  would serve to afford a clear under of the  question, aid the broad principles of international  understan@ing could then be propagated and put into  practice in ail countries. For this reason we believe  that particular emphasis should be laid on éducation  for world citizenship. Unesco's ideal in fact  requires the application of a very definite programme  for the promotion of international understanding. In  Turkey, the school curricula at ail levels are drawn  up with international understanding | in view. Teaching  shout the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies  is a part of the programme of all primary ‘and  secondary schools. Last year, special teaching was  given on Unesco's programme for the promotion of  international understanding, under a pilot project  carried out in one of the secondary schools of our  capital city.  We feel that it is our duty to point out to the  General Conference the fact that the sums allocated  to the natural sciences programme, in which all  Member States are keenly interested, seem insuffi-  cient. We believe that the dissemination of science,  which is one of the major tasks of the Department of  Natural Sciences, warrants an adjustment of the pro-  gramme to material requirements, in view of the  Organization's aims in this field. The same may be  said of the social sciences programme. Its budget  has been reduced by about $80,000, compared with  that for the lest financial period. The major projects  on arid zone research and on mutual appreciation of  Eastern and Western cultural values must of necessity  absorb a considerable part of the natural sciences and  social sciences budgets, but we should not therefore
11-8  resign ourselves to reducing the funds available to those  Departments since their programmes confain reso-  lutions de ing mich greatér financial resources.  In the field of cultural activities, translations of  representative works can contribute auch to a more  thorough knowledge of the various cultures. We  therefore think that the rate of publication of these  translations should be accelerated, ‘The translation  of Unesco's publications also seems to us of prime  importance for the extension of Unesco's influence.  In our opinion, the Organization should consider the  possibility of having its most important publications  translated into the national languages of countries  where Unesco's working languages are not spoken.  The sums at present allocated for this purpose are  insufficient,  With regard to Secretariat staff appointments, the  Government feels that thé principle of geographical  distribution should be’ applied more strictly, We  believe that, provided they possess all the qualifi-  cations demanded of international staff, the nationals  of all Member Stites'should be given an equal  opportunity to benefit from experience so valuable  in every way. Thé table showing the distribution  of Secretariat staff according to countries reveals  certain deficigncien in this respect,  In concluding these remarks, we wish to congra-  tulate the Organization on the elaboration of the  three major projects, which constitute the inost  significant innovation in the programme, We are  strongly in favour of the project on mutual  appreciation of Eastérn and Western cultural values.  Our country, in the light of its own experience, 18  keenly interested in seeing this project carried into  effect. The wisdom, the spiritual discipline and  the imaginative mythology of the Oriental peoples  have enriched man's spiritual heritage throughout  the ages. ‘ It is Iore thar ever necessary now to  strike a balance between the Orient and ‘the .  Occident, bétwéén scientific thought and idealiém.  The Turkish Government has get forth its  comments on the major project on scientific |  research on arid lands in’ document 9C/¢ 5 Addendum
4. This project likewise will havé oùr full support  and Turkey is ready to play an active’ part in its’  implementation. Unesco's activities’ fii regard to  arid zone research deserve high praise and have  aroused keen interest in countries ‘with great  stretches of arid land. ° Any research aimed at  increasing the fertility of arid soils is of vital  impcrtanée to such countries. But at the present  stage, it is equally important to prevent the  deterioration of land which is not arid in itseif. It  is well known that increasing aridity in the case of  semi-arid lands is due to false diagnosis of their  nature. If Unesco's work succeeds in preventing  increased aridity, especially in semi-arid lands, it  may be considered at once as well worth while.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.