7 November 1956, at 3,30 p.m,  Chairman: Mr, DAVIES (Australis)  ITEM 12,2 OF THE AGENDA : CONSIDERATION OF TH REPORT  Of THE EXECUTIVE BOARD ON THE SCALE, CURRENCY AND  COLLECTION OF TRE CONTRIBUTIONS OF MAMBER STATES  (continued) (documents 9C/ADM/ Rev. , 9C/ADM/ Rav, Addendum 1  and Corrigendum, 9C/ ADA 4)
(1} Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) said thathis country  was one of those which had recently been admitted to  membership of the United Nations and that he was, in  principle, in favour of scale No,4, shown in Annex .  HI, which would be more advantageous to Spain.  However, Spain did not wish to prejudice the Interests  of other Member States and his delegation was there-  fore prepared to accept as a basis for discussion  acale No.5 which, in its opinion, provided for a more  equitable distribution of percentages to the varicus  countries.
(2) Mr, McCLINTOCK (United States of America)  welcomed the diatinction made by the Soviet delegate  between. principles and percentages,  His Government, believing that it would be unwise  for the General Conference to adopt a scale not yet  agreed to by the General Assembly of the Urited  Nations, would prefer to adjust Unesco scalés on the  basis of the scale already adopted by the United Nationa  for 1956, 1957, 1958, In a spirit of conciliation,  however, it would be prepared to accept the zompro-  mise solution suggested by the delegate of Sy:ain.
(3) In rèply to a question put by Mr. ARTHUR (United  Kingdom), Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-  General) agreed that the General Conference had  already accepted scales of assessment before they had  boy approved by the General Assembly of the United  ations,  {4} Mr. MUNRO (Australia) remarked that his  Government had always advocated the adoption of a  uaiform method of calculating contributions, which  could be applied froin year to year, The scale em-  ployed by the United Nations had been worked out by  experts on the basis of each country's ability to pay-  and seemed to him the soundest scale to adopt.  Although the General Conference had, in the past,  agreed to use the United Nations écale in calculating  the contributions of its own Members, the 33.33 per  cent rate of cont>ibution for the United States of  America had never actually been applied. He would  like to sée a sixth column added to the document under  consideration, showing the United States' contribution  if the United Nations acale were rigorously applied.  He would also like to have information about the United  States contribution in the other Specialized Agencies,  While agreeing with the United States delegation that  Unesco should employ the scale already fixed by the  United ‘Nations, he strongly opposed the adoption of
543  column 3 which, by some adaptation of the United  Nations scale, reduced the United States contribution  from 33.33 per cent to 29,70 per cent, and reserved  the right to vote against the Director-General's resolu-  tion if that figure were maintained,  He concluded by supporting the Director-General's  proposals concerning the contributions of new Members.
(6) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) pointed out  that the differences in the rates of contribution that  would be assignod to the Member States under the  various scales being proposed wore insignificant (cf,  document 9C/ADM/3 Rev. , Addendum 1, Corrigendum,  From the purely financial point of view, therefore, it  made little difference which scale was chosen. What  caused Mr, Carneiro anxiety was the degree of arbi-  trariness which always seemed to be shown when fixing  the rate of contribution for the United States of America.  He saw no reason for limiting the rate to 30 per cent.  He pointed out that the fixing of thé maximum rate of  contribution at 33,33 per cent in itself gave the United  States of America a considerable advantage, for in the  absence of such a celling that country should, by  reason of its wealth, be assigned a much higher rate,  The delegation of Brazil could thus in no circumstances  accept the proposuls under column 6 of document
9C/ADM/3 Rev., Addendum 1, Corrigendum. Those  under column 4 made more allowance for the real  situation, it seeme to him, and he felt there would be  no objection to their serving as a basis for discussion.
(6) Mr. ADISESHIAH {Asulstant Director-General)  pointed out that the Director-General had presented no  proposals on the acale of contributions to the Admini-  strative Commission, and explained that the United  States contribution was not shown as 33, 33 per cent in  the document under consideration as the result of à  decision of the General Conference at ils eighth session.  The question of contributions had been carefully con-  sidered by the Executive Board, which had agreed to  aubmit various alternative suggestions to the General  Conference. Those suggestions appeared in Annex III  (document 9C/ADM/3 Rev., Addendum 1, Corrigendum).  The Secretariat could produce, within 24 hours, a  list of contribution rates calculated on the basis of a
33.33 per cent United States‘ contribution, if that was  so desired. It had not firm figures concerning United  States' contributions to other Specialized Agencies,  but could obtain them and give the Commission the  information at a later date. )
(7) Replying to a question from Mr. SUNDARAM  (India), Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  said that arrears of contributions for 1055-1956 formed  the subject of a separate item, which would come be-  fore the Commission at a later stage. Full information  about those arrears would be given then. He added that,   v-3 ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  with the exception of China, no country in arrears of  payment had pleaded inability to pay.
(8) The CHAIRMAN remarked that no decision of the  Administrative Commission on the scale to be adopted  for assessing contributions would prejudice the  examination of possible adjustments,
(8) Mr, GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) thought there was no reason why the scale of  contributions of Unesco's Member States should be  based on the scale applied in the United Nations, The  current United Nations scale no longer corresponded  to actual conditions, since it did not take account of  the 16 new Member States admitted to the Organization,  The proposed new United Nations scale had not yet  been confirmed by the General Assembly, It would  therefore be somewhat risky to take it as a basis.  In those conditions, Mr. Golunsky thought the best  procedure would be to base Unesco's Members! con-  tributions on whatever scale was finally adopted by the  United Nations,
(10) Mr, de HOOG (Netherlands) agreed with Mr,  Golunaky. He too thought that it would be best to de-  cide that Unesco should adopt the scale finally  approved by the General Assembly, subject to any  necessary adjustments.
(11) Mr. MATSUI (Japan) had not yet decided whather  to support the proposals in column 4 or in column 5.  But it seemed to him that, in ahy case, certain adjust-  ments would have to be made in the rate of contribu-  tion of those Member States that did not belong to the  United Nations, Under each of the columns in ques-  tion, he would therefore be inclined to prefer the  figures on the right under (b).
(12) Mr, McCLINTOCK (United States of America),  while realizing ise force ot the ‘arguments put forward  by the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics, pointed out that it was not yet certain that the  General Assembly of the United Nations would adopt  the proposals pat to it by the Committee on Contribu-  tions, so that columns (a) and (b) of column 4 were  purely theoretical, The United States Government  intended voting againat the new proposals being made  to the General Assembly as a matter of principle,  since it appeared that, under them, all countries, with  the exception of the United States of America, would  benefit from a decrease in assessment, In his opinion,  the best solution would bé to accept the Spanish com-  promise proposal to fix the United States! contribution  to Unesco at 30 per cent and to calculate all the other  Unesco contributions on that basis.
(13) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kirigdom) was somewhat  bewildered by the position taken up by the United  States delegate, He recalled that, in Montevideo, the  General Conférence had had before ft the séale pro-  posed by the United Nations’ Committee on Contribu-  tions which put the United States’ contribution at 33. 33  per cent. That figure wag arbitrary and was recog-  ' nized as being low, The United Kingdom delegation  had proposed that the United States! contribution  should be fixed at 33.33 per cent, but the proposal had  been defeated, and the General Conference haddecided,
544     in equity, to apply the conversion factor; the rate of  assessment for the United States of America had  thereby been reduced to 30 per cent. If the figure had  been fixed, the amount of the United States contribution  would have been higher. Now, when it was being sug-  gested that the United States contribution should be in  the region of 31 per cent, the United States delegation  no longer wished the conversion factor to be applied  and wished to be assessed on a fixed percentage.  The United Kingdom delegation was in favour of  adopting the alternative set out in column 4.
(14) Mr, CAMPBELL (New Zealand) said that his  Government had always been of the view that the main  criterion in making assessments for contributions  should be a country's capacity to pay, While it had  agreed to the maximum and minimum contribution  rates and to the per capita ceiling, it was reluctant to  see the introduction of further arbitrary criteria. For  that reason, it supported the proposal that contribu-  tions to Unesco should be based on the United Nations  scale of contributions and was in favour of adopting  the alternative set out under column 4(b), on the  understanding that adjustments would have to be made  for new Members, etc,
(15) Mr. FAIREY (Canada) suggested that attention  should be focused either on the cxisting United Nations  scale or on that being proposed to the General Assembly  by the United Nations Committee on Contributions, He  favoured the adoption of the alternative set out in  column 3, which could be adjusted to give fair treat-  ment to new Members. There was a risk in accepting  the proposals of the Committee on Contributions, as  they might not be approved by the General Assembly  and, in any event, would probably not be adopted until  February 1957,
(16) Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) wondered  whether, in order to simplify the matter, it would not  be possible to decide that the proposed scale of the  United Nations might serve as a provisional basis for  the establishment of a scale for Unesco, on the under-  standing that, if the proposals were modified by the  General Assembly, corresponding modifications would  be made in the Unesco scale. He proposed the adop-  tion of that procedure.
(17) Mr. PLATZ (Federal Republic of Germany) was  in favour of adopting the alternative set out in column
4(b). He saw no reason why adjustments could not be  made to assessments after ! January 1957, if the  General Assembly had not taken its decision before  that date.
(18) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lice) said that, since it would doubtless be several  months before the’ new scalé of contributions was .  finally adopted by the General Assembly of the United  Nations, hé was prepared to support Mr. Carneiro's  proposal that the Unésco acale be fixed provisionally  on the basis of the draft United Nations scale, on the  understanding that it would subsequently be adjusted  to reflect any changes which might be made by the  General Assembly of the United Nations.
(19) The CHAIRMAN, replying to a remark made by   ADMINIBTRATIVE COMMISSION  Mr. de HOOG ('ietherlanda), said that the Commis-  sion would vote, only on the question of principle at that  stage. It wou)d choose whether it wished to adopt,as a  basis for assosairg contributions, the United Nations  scale as already fixed, the scale proposed to the  United Nations by the Committee on Contributions, or  the acale proposed to the United Nations by the Com-  mittee on Contributizii~. subject to any modifications  made to it by the Generai Assembly, The question of  percentuges would be decided later,  {30) Replying to a question from Mr, ARTHUR (United  Kingdom), Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-  General) said that, if the Administrative Commission  decided to adopt the proposals of the Committe on  Contributions "on a proyisional basis", subject to  modifications which might be made by the General  Assembly, the Secretariat would not make the assess-  ments until those modifications were known,
(21) On the proposal of Mr, PETROV (Bulgaria), the  CHAIRMAN put to the vote the motion to recommend  that the General Conference adopt, as a provisional  basis for assessing contributions, the scale being pro-  posed to the United Nations General Assembly by the  Committee on Contributions, subject to any modifica-  tions to that scale which might be made by the General  Assembly, -
(32) The motion was adopted by 40 votes to 0, with
4 abstentions,  {23) The CHAIRMAN then said that the Commission  should decide whether the United States contribution  should be allowed to find its own level in terme of con-  version, or whether it should be fixed, He recalled  that, until the eighth session of the General Conference,  the amount of the United States! contribution had been  fixed, but that at that session it had been decided to  apply the conversion factor and allow it to find {ts own  levei. The alternative set out under column 4 would  allow the United States! contribution to find its own  level, whéreas that set out under column 5 fixed it at  an arbitrary figure of 30 per cent.  He suggested that a vote be taken first between  columns 4 and 5, and then a decision be made as to  whether alternative (a) or (b) should be followed,  Agreed.  . (24) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote a proposal that  the Administrative Commission recommend to the  General Conference that the United States' contribution  be allowed to find its own level (alternative set out  urder column 4).
(25) The proposal was adopted by 32 votes to 0, with
11 abstentions,
(26) The CHAIRMAN then asked the Commission to  decide whether it was in favour of thé inclusion of an  adjustment for Members of Unesco who were not Mem-  béra of the United Nations in the scale based on that  proposed for the Unitéd Nations (column 4(b)).  He put to the vote a proposal that the Administrative  Commission reéommend to the General Conferencé  the adoption of a scale adjusted for Members of
545  v-3  Unesco who were not Members of the United  Nations.
(27) The proposal was adopted by 35 votes to 0, with
(38) Mr, "HARPER - SMITH (Comptroller) remarked  that, in order to complete jis business with regard to  the item under discussion, the Commission should  decide whether it wished te recommend the adoption  of any policy with regard to per capita limitations,  maximum and minimum contributions, contributions  of new Members and contributions of Associate Mem-  bers, If the Commission wished to recommend the  continuation of the policies adopted by the General .  Conference at its eighth session, it had only to recom-  mend the adoption of paragraphs 4,5, 6,7 and 8 of the  draft resolution contained in paragraph T of document
(29) Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom) (Repre-  sentative of the Executive Board) sald that the Execu-  tive Board had recommended thé continued application  of the policies adopted at the eighth session of the  General Conference with respect to per capita limita-  tions, maximum and minimum contributions, contri-  butions of new Members, and contributions of Associate  Members.
(30) The Administrativé Commission agreed to recom-  mand to the General Conference the adoption of para-  graphs 4,5,6,7 and 8 of the draft resolution in para-  graph 7 of document 9C/ADM/3 Rev.
(31) Mr, HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) pointed out  that, as the Commission had decided to recommend  the adoption of any modifications made by the General  Assembly to the scale being proposed to it, the word-  ing of paragraph 4 of the draft resolution should be  changed.
(32) The Administrative Commission agreed to ask  the Secrétariat to redraft paragraph 4 of the draft  resolution in the light of the decision {t had just taken  with regard to the adoption of any modifications made  by the General Assembly of the United Nations to the  scale proposed to it by the Committee on Contributions.  ITEM 11.1 OF THE AGENDA : METHODS OF FINANCING THE BUDGET  FOR 1957 AND 1958 {4 t 9C/5, Addendum 1 anid Corrigendum 1)
(33) Sir Bén Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom) (Repre-  sentative of the Execütive Board) rémiinded the Com-  mission that, in his original’ proposals (document 9C/5),  the Director- - General had mentioned two possible *  methods of financing the budget, namely, in atéord-  ance with the Fiitancial Regulations or making: an  ‘exception to thé Financial Regulations with regard to -  surplusès.' After stud thé Director-General's -  proposals, the Executivé Board had strongly’ recom-<  mendéd financing the budget in accordance ‘with the -  Financial Regulations (document 9C/5 Addenduri 1),  In the Corrigendum to document 9C/5, the Director-  General presented two draft Appropriation’ Resolutions,  one following the Financial Regulations and the other   v-3  making an exception té them, and noted that the Execu-  tive Board had strongly recommended the adoption of  the resolution which followed the Financial Regulations,
(34) Mr, ADISESHIAH (Ausistant Director-General)  explained that the Director -General had included an  appropriation resolution accounting for the disposal of  surpluses because the General Conference at its  eighth session had made no dacision with regard to  their disposal and had postponed the matter until the  ninth session, He stated that the Director-General  was in agreement with the recommendation of the  Executive Board with regard to financing the budget  for 1967-1938, The total amount of the surpluses for  the period from 1947 to 1 November 1956 was  $1,523,625,
(35) Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Braril) suggested  that possibly many members of the Administrative  Commission were imperfectly acquainted with the pro-  visions of the Financial Regulations, He would there-  fore welcome some explanation of those provisions.
(36) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) explained  that Article 5,1 of the Financial Regulations dealt  with ‘the question of how the budget appropriation was  to be financed, and Article 5,2 outlined adjustments  which should be made to assessments. The appropris-  tion voted by the General Conference for the 1957-
1958 budget would be made up from contributions from  Member States, with a deduction for miscellaneous  income and for contributions resulting from the assess  ment of new Member States. The éstimates in docu-  ment 9C/6 Corrigendum 1 showed the miscellaneous  income amounting to $348,000 and the contributions  of new Member States as $70,000, The latter figure  was not final as, since the preparation of the docu-  ment, it had already inéreased to $86,000 and might  well increase again if the General Conference accepted  new Members during its session. Before making the  assessments on Member States, the sums of $348,000  and $86, 000 (or the final total of contributions from  new Members) would be deducted from the total appro-  priation figure.  Articles 4.3 and 4,4 of the Financial Regulations  dealt with the manner in which surpluses should be  distributed to Member States who had paid their -con-  tributions in full. If the Financial Regulations were  followed, the surpluses would be distributed to Mem-  ber States according to the percentages in which they  had contributed to the years in which the surpluses  arose, If, on the other hand, an exception were to be  made to the Financial Regulations, the total amount of  the surpluses would be deducted from the appropr la-  tions for.1957-1958 before contributions were assessed  on Member States. ‘ ;  In other words, if the Financial Regulations were  followed, . the surpluses would be crüdited to those  Member States who had contributed to them and in the  same proportion sa they had paid those contributions.  If an exception were made, the surpluses would be  returned to all Member States in the proportion in  which they would contribute to the budget for 1957-1958.
(37) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the recommenda-  tion of the Executive Board that the Financial Regula-  tions should be adhered to in financing the budget.
546  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION
(38) Therecommendation of the Executive Board was  unanimously adopted,
(39) Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  said that, as the Administrative Commission had ..  decided to recommend the General Conference to adopt  the United Nations scale for thé assessment of contri-  butions, the Secretariat proposed that it should allow  a figure of 6 per cent for the undistributed reserve, on  the basis of the same assumption as was made at the  previous session of the General Conference with re-  gard to the non-payment of contributions.
(40) ‘Mr. HARPER -SMITH (Comptroller) recalled that  a figure of 5,06 per cent had been used for calculating  the undistributed reserve for the period 1055-1956, on  the assumption that China (whose ass€ysment was fixed  at 8,06 per cent) would be unlikely to pey its contribu-  tion. As the contributions could not be finally calcu-  lated at the moment, and China's contribution fixed,  the Secretariat proposed the adoption of an arbitrary  figure of § per cent, Five per cent was suggested  rather than 5.06 per cent as it was a simple figure and  would enable delegates to make rapid calculations  easily,
(41) Replying to a question from Mr. GOLUNSKY  {Union of Soviet Socialist Republics), Mr. HARPER-  SMITH (Comptroller) said that the term "undistributed  reserve" was unfortunate, It was not a reserve, but  was that part of the appropriation which the Director-  General was not authorized to spend.
(43) Mr, GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  les) replied that he considered it wrong to include in  the total appropriation a sum which appeared to exist,  but which, ‘in actual fact, did not exist.
(43) Mr, ARTHUR (United Kingdom) considered the  suggestion of the Comptroller extremely sensible. He  asked whether the exact amount would be calculated at  a later date when the contribution of China became  known.
(44) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  replied that the figure shown for the undistributed  reserve in the appropriation resolution would be final,  The Secretariat was recommending 5 per cent as a  basis for calculation,
(45) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the proposal to use
5 per cent as the basis for calculating the undistributed  reserve,
(46) The proposal was adopted by 33 votes to 0, with
10 abstentions. -
(47) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) explained that the reason why he had abstained  fram voting was that he disagreed with a procedure  which permitted the inclusion in the Organization's  budget, under the heading "undistributed reserve", of  a sum which was in fact purely fictitious.
(48) Mr. McCLINTOCK (United States of America)  considered that the work of the Commission had been   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  groatly expedited by the clear explanations given by  the Compiroller, On behalf of his delegation,  he thanked Mr. Harper-Smith for his valuable  assistance.  v-4
(49) The € JIAIRMAN fully associated himself with  the foregoing remarks.  The meeting rose at 5.30 p.m,  FOURTH MEETING
8 November 1956, at 10,30 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 11.2 OF TUE AGENDA, CONSIDERATION, ON THE REPORT  OF THE E.(ECUTIVE BOARD, OF PARTS | (GENERAL POLICY),  M (GENERAL ADMINISTRATION) AND IV (COMMON SERVICEN)  OF THE BUDGET ESTIMATES FOR 1957-1938 (documents 9C/8 and  Comigendum 1, 9C/5 Addendum | and 9C/5 Addendum 3)
(1) Introilucing the documents, Mr. ADISESHIAH  {Assistant Director-General) asked the Commission  to considér Part I - General Policy - in documents
9C/5, 9C/5 Corrigendum 1 and 9C/6 Addendum 1.  Under Chapter 1 - General Conference - the Board's  commenta were to be found in paragraph 61 of docu-  ment 9C/6 Addendum 1, In accordance with paragraph’
62 of the same document, the Board had studied the  date for the calling of the tenth session of the General  Conference and had decided to recommend to the Con-  ference that its tenth session be held at Unesco Head-  quarters in Paris at the beginning of November 1958.  As stated in paragraph 61, the cost of publishing the  proceedings of that session would be carried over  into 1958.  With regard to Chapter 2, the estimates for the  Executive Board were based on the assumption that  the Board would hold two meetings in 1957 and four In
1958. Aa Mr. Adiseshiah had stated the previous day,  if the Franco-Japanese amendment to the Constitution  were adopted, the increase in the membership of the  Board from 22 to 24 would involve an additional cost  of $12,800 for the two-year period.
(2) Part I, Chapter 1 - General Conference - was  approved, .
(3) Part I, Chapter 2 - Executive Board - was  approved, subject to the modification that would be  entailed by the adoption of the constitutional amend-  ment proposed by France and Spain.
(4) Passing on to Part II! - General Administration -  Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General) re-  quested that Chapter 1 - Office of the Director-  General - be held over until the Director-General  could be present. :  Agreed.
(5) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  »
647  pointed out that in Chapter 2 - Bureau of the Comp-  troller - there was no change of any significance, save  for tha reduction mentioned in paragraph 39 of docu-  ment 9C/5. .  {6) Chapter 2 was approved.
(1) Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  explained that the Director -General's final proposals  with regard to Chapter 3 - Bureau of Personnel and  Management - were to be found in document 9C/6  Corrigendum 1 (pages 86-89), which completely re-  placed the corresponding chapter in document 9C/6.  The Assistant Director-General drew the Commis-  sion's attention to paragraph 36 of thé Introduction to  document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1 (page XIV) and to the  two tables given in paragraphs 46 and 48a, The rele-  vant comments of thé Board were given in paragraphs
23-32 of document 9C/5 Addendum 1. The staff pro-  posed for 1957-1958 was the sume as that provided  for in the 1955-1956 budget. As explained in para-  graph 54 of the Corrigendum, a new division had been  creatéd, .the Administralive Management Division, to  advise on personnel practices, procedures and manage-  ment, to perform classification functions and to con-  tinue the very heavy work entailed by the recommenda-  tions of the Salary Review Committee, |  With regard to paragraph 46 of the Introduction, Mr.  Adiseshiah pointed out that the trend towarda an up-  grading pattern in the Organization, which had caused  the General Conference concern at its eighth session,  had been checked; there was an overall reduction in  the budget estimatea for ataff in 1957-1958, and every-  where the trend was downward, :  In response to the Board's comment in paragraph 23  of document 9C/5 Addendum 1, the Director-General  had made a detailed ataternent which was to be seen in  paragraphs 24-27 of the same document. The Board  had observed that the administrative costs of the  Organization were far higher than its programme costs;  in reply to that general criticism, the Assistant  Director-General explained that (t was very difficult to  define the administrative expenses of the Organization  (and similar attempts in other organizations had proved  unsuccessful), ‘  It could never be repeated tco often that the whole  staff of Unesco existed only for the execution of the