9 November 1956, at 9,30 a.m.  Chairman: Mr, HALLSTEIN (Federal Republic of Germany)  PROGRAMME. OF WORK
(1) Mr, MONTAGNIER (Secretary) submitted the  proposed time-table of work up to Tuesday, 13  November. -  Plens meetin  Consideration = item 7 was ; to be continued on
10 November, 34 speakers having put their names  down;
10 Novembér, à,m.: Discussion of proposed  amendments to Artièle V of the Constitution and  to the Rules of Prôcedure, -  - _ 10 Novèmber,' p.m.: Continuation of the general  discussion and reply by the Director-General.
12 November: Voting on the budget ceiling (item’
11,1 of the agenda) and consideration of the  Administrative Commission's report on the  financing of the budget ‘and the scale of contribu-  tions,  Administrative Commission: ;  The Commission was to meet on Saturday, 10  November (two meetings) to consider items 12 and
13 of its agenda (financial and staff questions).  Committed on Reports of Member States:  “The Committée was to meet on 10 November at
3.30 pm, to éxamine its report.  Genérdl Committéé:  The General Committee should meet on 12 November,  at 9, 30 a, m,  Nominations Cominiftes :  “The Committee’ Was to meet on 12 November at
3,30 p. mi; ‘to ‘consider nominations’ for the  Executive’ ‘Board: ‘After that meeting, the plenary  Conferénce could  procend to elect the Board  members, .  Lgl Comittee: EL  Committee id t& meet ‘on {2 Novérhbër at
10; 80°45 ac; dnd or 13 Névember at 3.30 p.m.  Pro eee Commission -  Commission Was to meet on thé’ ‘morning of  Hs November and on 13 November’ (Hiorning and  atfiernéon]; fake sovdande with the new timé-table  ‘drawn up | y the Exécütive Board (document  “46 EX] (8),  Headquarters’ Committee: =  Thé'Gommijttee waa (0 mest, on the afté iden of ©
13 November t6 discuss péssible'amendments to  its report (document. 9C/ADM/ 20) before its ‘  . ‘consideration by the Administrative’ ‘Commis-  sion,    !  ns
(3) Mr. SECCO ELLAURI {Vice -Chatrmani of the  Executive Board) announced that, on [2 November, the.  General Conference would have to break off {ts work  at 5,30 p, m, to enable delegates to attend the recep-  tion given by the President of the Republic of India.
(3) Mr, JAPIE suggésted that delegates intending to  speak at a plenary meeting should be asked té attend  at the times allotted fèr thelr speeches, '  He reminded the meeting that the Frénch Ainbas-  sador, -as doyen of the Diplomatic'Corpé, would be ‘  giving a reception on 13 Novémber, and asked that -  the Conférence might theretore adjourn dt 4.30 p, m,  that day.
(4) The CHAIRMAN concluded that, for the reasons  mentioned, the work should be completed in accordance  with the proposéd schedule; he asked whether the =  programme was otherwise acceptable to the Commit-  tee,  Agreed, ' ;
(5) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Seéretary) proposed that tne  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget meet  early in the afternoon in order to elect its officers.  Agredd,  {6} Mr, KABIR wished to know when the proposed  changes to the Constitution were likely to be discussed  by the General Conference in plenary meeting.
(7) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL feplied that tie  discussion was scheduled for Saturday,’ 10 November,  in the morning.
(8) Mr, DAVIES statéd that A proposed ériérarients  to the ‘Coñntitution ‘and the Rules of Procedure had been  retérréd to the Legal Committee,” it was hope ‘that the  Administrative Commission would be able to meet  before the plenary meeting and transmit its report  thereon,
(6) Me, ALLYN staged iia his à deleston wilhed to  recornmend that the ‘quëstion’ of thé paymiént of arrears  of contriblitions, which fected the voting rights of  ‘éertain Member States,’ be ‘examined before the  Monday.’ . ‘ ;
(10) Me, ‘DAVIES hdlcaféd ii if the Genekal Cofn-  fittee was in ‘agreement, his' Commission could’  take up the mattér In'the course of that wornlng's  meeting, fo LI IT , 1»  Agresd.. ; Le tt, i ; ; "  met th the en was to consider document
9C/JUR/PROV/2 (draft amendments fg the Constitu-  tion and to the Rules of Procedure of General  Conference) and document 8C/ADM/ 12 (proposed
1-2 ‘GENERAL COMMITTEE  amendments to the Rules of Procedure of rings rai ti  Conference), as well as questions referred  the Committee on Reports of Member States pu  ing reports on the action taken to give efféét to  conventions and recommendations adopted by inter-  national conferences convehéd under Unesco! s  auspices.
(12) Mr, ZEISSL stated that the Committee on Reports  of Member States had so far held seven meetings.  The Committes, bad considered the reparts. presented  by Member States fon the years :1054 and 1955, and;  the Director -General's atudy of those, reports and of  the_relationships between tha Organization and Member  States. (item 17,1 of tbe, agepdn); iit: had. examined and  added some changes Aa.tbe. draft report (document: :
9C/REP/PROV/2),whiçh was.to be, submitted to the :-  Programme Commission thereon, Items 17.2. .  (Recommendations on the form and content of the  reports.to be presented to the: General, Conference at.  ta tenth session, and on the further, development of  Member, States! participation in the planning end . -  execution of Unesco's programme) and 8, 8,3... +...  (Structure and ‘methods of work of the National Com  missions) were scheduled for discussion that afternoon,  It was expected that, in the course of Saturday's . ;,  meeting, the Committee would approve its first report  to the Progresome Commission, which gould examine  it on Monday, 12 Nayember, In the course of the  discussion, the Committee had been confronted with  legal aspects of the implementation of recommenda-  tions and conventions adopted by international  conferences convened under the auspices of Unesco,  and the matter had heen referred to the Legal Com-  mittee, EN fl
(13) Mr, DAVIES wie a ns statement  and indicated that, spar}, from he questions mentioned,  the ao Camm s3ion was scheduled to  examine that day item 12,2 of th € agenda (ache, …  currency 2 collection of Spt Member  Toates). apd item 12,1 (Reports of the Director-..  General 8 gh A, Audi on (he accou Ly, of the’  Organize in for ine int years a and, oss,  comments if opt xe ve Hoar thereon), The  Co miss on ba lues xamined Parts I, i and iV of  the du dget iRerkiond r°1957-1958, with the  exception of Chapter bof Part HI, which was ‘referred  to an ad hoc com adil six pogbere, plus a    he   “
8 :   re resenta tve he. h  Execullve B og ve  Te paid ah * Commis selon a Te s'also cheduled  om 13.3 of ! the. agenda,, the report to exami ne, a  of the Executive Board on the recovery of arrears of  contributions from Czechoslovakia, Hungary and  Poland, He Te pm Le arrears of contribu-  oly: tions Irom China fis ed, young rights, could  ined i + the same item, also be exam  Hun
(14) Mr. KEMENOV stated that, in accordance With  the decisions of the General Conference in Mopte-  video, the question of the arrears of contributions’  from Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Poland was a  mittet of the eurkercles in th thé contributiôns  rFo< aa! ‘1 5 0    , ta he:paid, while that of the arrears of contri-  ions from China was an entirely different  . problem involving that country's voting rights, He  * suggested t herefore that the questions be treated  feparplely.
(15) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL and Mr, DAVIES  agreed that a supplementary item in the agenda (item
12, 2, 1) would appropriately cover the question raised,  Agreed, Pen tu à 1 ayy
(16) At the CHAIRMAN'S request,’ Mr, SECCQ.: (1,  ELLAURI (Vice-Chairman of the Executive Board)...  informed the General Committee of the changes in . ‘  the time-table of the Programme Commission pro-  posed by the Executive Board in order.to give...  priority Lo the study of the major projects (document
(17) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the  revised time-table provided fon a rearrangement of  the order of discussion of the Departments, in order  that the discussion of major projects and the work of  working parties might precede the discussion of .  Depattments having major projects in their. pro  grammes; . Âs a consequence, the order of the |  discussion of some Departments had been shifted  round, the Department of Cultural Activities being  the one most affected. à  PS TRE TRY IRA + A1 +
(18) Mrs. dé observéd ad it would pot be: ;  Déstats  the report ‘of the Committee, on ing of, ‘Member  States simultaneously with the general discussion and  _ the examination of major projects, RET N
(19) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL and Mr. ‘2EISSL  agreed with the observation made by Mrs. Myrdal,  and the Committee approved, subject fo these |  modifications, . the revised time-table of; th pars  Programme Commission (document 45 Ex/ 18).  fat
(20) The CHAIRMAN referred to the som pics: :  addressed bo, the, er cond  of the £ommitten @ of Inte nee fit ti er  Organizations ( binge 2), rol  terms under, Yhish.o piwik pds) sent 4 i a  goveramenial organizations might sub! =  during the work, kof the General Ç Cons erenc thi onl  suggestion of the Chairman, the ( Complies  to leave the mattér to the “didcrciion =  of the various organs of the £ ic poil  The Chairman stated rok Sia pol iE in
2, 3, sand 4, “containing 1 Lette tete Sonliden hoi x  nature,” would be examined at t emily is Pi  meeting, which was fixed for iy an Nove ember  at 6.30 a.m,  The meeting rose at 10.15 a. m, ;