5 November 1958, at 3.30 p.m.  President; Dr, Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India)  later: Mr, Jean BERTHOIN (France)  CONTENTS  Adoption of the revised agenda , + + + + + « + 6 + + + 5 56  Establishment of the Nominations Committee , . +... 58  Report of the Nominations Commiltee and election of  President and Vice-Presidents of the General Conference 58  Appointment of Chairmen of Commissions . , , . + +... 60  ADOPTION OF THE REVISED AGENDA
1, The PRESIDENT:  The Meeting will come to order. The Chairman  of the Executive Board will propose the provisional  agenda,
2, Mr, RAADI (Iran), Chairman of the Executive  Board, (Translation from the French):  Mr. President, in conformity with Rule 13 of the  Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, I  have the honour to submit for the approval of the  Generdl Conference the revised agenda of the tenth  session, This is contained in document 10 C/1 Rav.  May I remind you that the Executive Board, at its  fiftieth set ion, drew up the provisiérial agenda,  which was communicated to Membel States within  the required time? Later, at its fifty~second  session, the Executive Board drew up the revised  agenda which is now in the hands of the delegations,  basing it on the provisional agenda and the supple-  mentary list, With regard to item 23, I should  point out that the Board issued, for consideration by  the General Conference, a comment {i the form of  a resolution, which is reproduced in document
10 C/1 Rev. Further, on account of the increase in  the number of Member States = which, of ‘¢otirse,  gives it great satisfaction - the’ Executive Board  recommends that the General Conferciice amend its  Rules of Procedure so às to increase thé number of  Vice-Presldents of the General Conference from 10  to 12, The recommendation on this question will be  found in document 10 C/50, which has been distri-  buted, . For practical reasons,‘ the Executive Board  suggests that the General Conférence might agree  to put this question on its agenda and discuss it  immediately, The Nominations Committee, which  is to meet in a few minutes, could then, if the  General Conference came to an affirmative decision,  present all the candidatures to the posts of Vice-  President of the General Conference al the same time,
3. The PRESIDENT:  The revised provisional agenda is before you and
56  the draft amendment to Rules 25, 30, 34 and 38 of  the Rules of Procedure is also before you, It  raises the number of Vice-Presidents from 10 to
12. Has it the approval of the Conference? 1 call  upon the delegate of the United Kingdom.
4, Sir Edward BOYLE (United Kingdom):  Mr. President, the United Kingdom wishes to  ask the General Conference for permission to in-  clude a new item on the agenda of the Conference,  under Rule of Procedure 14, sub-section 2, This  item is concerned with the membership of the  Singapore-North Borneo Group Associate Member.
5.1 The PRESIDENT:  The proposal of the United Kingdom delegation  to include the question of Singapore in the agenda,  according to our Rules, will be referred to the  General Committee and will be taken up here after  the meeting of the General Committee.
5.2 call upon the delegate of the United  States,
6. Mr, HANES (United ‘States of America):  Mr. President, it fs my uridérstanding that we  are at present considering the: adoption of the  revised agenda 10 C/1 Rev, As one of {5 items,  this agenda contains item 23 “The Representation  of China in Unesco", Just this morning, Mr, Presi:  dent, this Conference decided; by a very large  majority, not to consider at its tenih session any  proposal to exclude the representativés of the  Government of the Républic of China, or to séat  representatives ‘ot the Central People's Government  of the People's Republic of China. 1 submit that,  in adopting this proposal this morning, we have  already réjected the Inclusion in our agenda of an  item entitled "The Representation of China in .  Unesco'', The Executive Board, in ir ansmitting  the Soviet request to the General Conference for  the inclusion of this ilem on the agenda, drew our  attention, us will be found on page t of document
10 C/1 Rev., to the fact that on 23 September of  this year the General Assembly of the United Nation:   PLENARY MEETINGS Il  rejécted a request’ that {t 1dgcribe a similai tem in  its agenda,’ and decided, for the duiation’ ‘of 1s thir-  teenth session, not to consider aily proposals to  exclude representatives of the Government’ of ‘the -  Republic of China; As I have nôfèd, fhls General  Conference has already, this morning, decided to  adopt a course identical to that followed {n the .  General Assembly, - It is the clear fmplicailon of the  Executive Board resolution that thé Gerièral Confer-  ence should consider‘ adopting the procedure toilowed  by the United Nations under identical circumstances,  namely that, having already decided not to consider  this item, we have’in fact decided to reject the in-'  clusion of this item op our agenda,‘ I would respect-  fully submit, Mr, President, that the item "The  Representation of China in Unesco" should be deleted  from document 10 C/1 Rev., the revised draft agenda  of the tenth session of the General Conference.
7, The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the delegate of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics.
8,1 Mr, KUZNETSOV (Union of Sovief Socialist  Republics), (Translation from the Russian):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the dele-  gation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics  raised this question in the Executive Board and ask-  ed for a report to be made to the Conference on the  delegation's desire that the question of the repre-  sentation of China in Unesco be included in the  Conference's agénda, :
8.2 I shall take the liberty of stating briefly the  reasons why we consider it essential that this  question be included in the agenda and discussed;  it will take only a few minutes, and it seems to me  that the subject warrants the spending of that time,  In bringing this question before the Conference, 1  am convinced that it has no connexion with the sub-  ject on which we ‘reached a‘deciston at this morn-'  ing's meeting, On that ‘oécasion we were consider-  ing the ‘question of the credentials of thôse who are  now present, whereas the question of thé future of  Unesco, its future relations with thé People's’  Republic of China and how ‘the latter is to be included  in Unescots work, 1s ari ‘entirely “ladependent  question, - The objection raised by the delegation of  the United States of America has,” thereforéd, no  bearing on the subject, l'do ‘not think that the Con-  ference, by deciding the question of credentials,  has disposed of the ‘subject in general; that would be  quite wrong, This morning we listeñed {6 an’ excel-  lent speech by the delegate of India, In which he  described contemporary China, 1 think that his  speech gave us reasons, enoligh why ‘thé Conference  should consider this question more thoroughly and  really come to an understanding of it. I should like  to elaborate a little on the ideas sô well expressed  by my Indian colléague, both as to form and as to  content, by adding certain, remarks, :
8.3 It is the opinion of the delégation of the Soviet  Union that one of the worst organic défécts in the  work of our Organization Is that the People's  - Republic of China is not represented in it. In ‘speak-  ing of this we should remember what contemporary  China represents. One out of every four inhabitants  of the earth is Chinese, The work of an
57  Organization Which’ ‘élatims to’ be Infernatignal cannot  ba regarded as successful if the’ Peoplèts Republic  of China 1s not represented ng ‘Next'ygar the |  People's Repiiblig of Chiria will have been In oilst a  ence for teri years, The urñptecedented achievements  of the People's Republic in those’ years have Indeed  been the admiration of its friends” and the ‘confusion  of its enemies, Once à backward, ' ‘semi-¢ solontai  country, torn bÿ the continual Intestine stfuggles  of militaristic cliques, rent by foreign imperialists,  enduring constantly recurring famines, bad harvests,  epidemics and the ‘calamities of nature; 1iliterate  and backward, China has, before oùr eyes, become  a powerful State, which'is éarrying out radical”  reforms in politics, economics’ and’cultireé at  tremendous” speed, Today the people of China are  solvinga colossal problem of great historical importance -  the problem of a technical ahd cultural revolution,
8.4 1 should now like to'give a brief factual des-  cription of contemporary China, During the first ‘  five-year plan, which the Chinege workers carried  out from 1953 to'1957, ‘the foundations of Soclalist  industry were laid in China, - In this period, 825" -  heavy industrial plants were constructed, more than  half of which are already in operation, The metal-  lurgical industries are developing especially quickly.  In old China, from 1901 till 1948 - nearly half a  century - only a little more than 7 million tons of  steel were smelted, In the new China, in 1958  alone, the metal-workers will have smélted more  than 10 million tons of steel. This means that  China, which before the war was seventeenth among  the world producers of steel, is now sixth, The  metal industries of China employ more than 20  million men, Coal output is increasing rapidly, In  the period when the people have held the power in  China, modern departments of industry have come  into being, such as machine-tool construction, motor  car construction, aeroplane construction, the pro-  duction of measuring instruments, ball-bearings,  and equipment for the metallurgical, mining, power,  chemical, ofl and radio industries, In different  parts of the countéy great thermal and hydro-  electric power stations are being, built and long  railway-lines laid down, . The progress China has  made in agriculture is no less striking. In the .  winter of 1957-1958, irrigation works of unprece-  dented scope were undertaken in China, as a result  of which 32 million hectares of arable land were  irrigated. China now has more than à third of all  the irrigated land in 'the world, The volume of  navvying work dorie by China in the last year was
373 times as gréât as that done in China fn past  centurles, during the’ construction of one of the  eight wonders of the world - - the’ ‘Great Wall of  China, which is 5, 00 kilomètres long. Last  winter more than 100 million .people wère employed  at once on the irrigation’ wor ks in China, In their  vast land the great, industrious, intelligent people  of China are building a new life, They are bringing  about tremendous revolutions not only in economic  and industrial life, but also in culiüre, dn a new  technological basis, All over China a great  struggle is going on to abollsh illiteracy and develop  primary, secondary and higher education, In the  current school year there are 84 million pupils in  the primary schools alone,   II PLENARY
8.5 The new Soalallst China has become, à great  power, By its example it exerts a great and benefi-  cent influence on other, nations which have thrown off  the colonial yoke or any fighting for national freedom  against imperialism, How can we talk of the advan-  tages of promoting mutial understanding between  Eastern and Western cullures if, we deliberately  ignore the oldest ean the world, which is also  that of the largest nation'ln the world? As our,  honoured President said 1 his address, the compass  was first inyented in Ching, as were paper, gun-  powder and porcelain, and rere the art of printing  was first learnt, And this’ s the country, a torch-  bearer of progress {n our, diy, that we are leaving  out of the work of an international, organization whose  task it is to promote cultural co- operation, ; How can  we speak of the aspirations and union of all nations if  among the Members of. Unesco, we \retain, all this time  a political corpse, which spreads a ‘disgusling’ odour  of corruption all around it - thi: ‘Kuomintang clique?
8.6 The delegation of the Union. of Soviet Socialist  Republics asks the Conference to put on the agenda  the question of admitting the People's Republic of  China to {ts rightful place in Unesco. It asks that  this question be considered with ari open mind and  without prejudice, in accordance with justice and  reason, It is time to end this irregular, disgraceful  state of affairs, which is hindering the work of this  international cultural Organization, I would urge  delegates to support the proposal made by the dele-  gation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,  which 13 dictated not by mere political considerations  ‘but by the interests of tho work of our international  Organization;
9. The PRESIDENT: »  I call upon the delegate of the United Kingdom,  Sir Edward BOYLE (Unitéd Kingdorn):  Mr. President, I shoul like to’propose to the  plenary session that the question’ now being diséussed  be referred to the General Commiltee. This would  avoid a further repetition of the debate on the subject  here and now, and I beliéve that procedure wauld be  to the conveniénce of the plenary session, I there-  fore move that the matter now under discussion be  referred torthwith to the General Commitiee.
11.1 ‘The PRESIDENT: ‘  It has been moved that the matter under discus-  sion be referred to the’ Gèneräl Committee of the |  General Conferénce in order to avold a repetition of  the kind of discussion which we have had this morn-  ing. To facilitate the work of the General Conference,  it is moved that this question be referred to the  General Committee.
11.2 The motion is carried, and, with that excep-  tion, the revised agenda is adopted.  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
12, The PRESIDENT:  According to rule 29 of the Rules of Procedure  the Nominations Committee shall consist of the Heads  of all delegations entitled to vote in tie Conference.  MEETINGS
58  The Nominations Committee will meet now in Room 4  and will return here, I take it, in about half an  hour's time,  (The meeting was suspended at 4, 30 p.m, and  "resumed at 5,30 p,in.)  REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE AND ELECTION  OF THE PRESIDENT AND TWELVE VICE-PRESIDENTS OF THE  GENERAL CONFERENCE  The PRESIDENT:  I will now ask for the report of the Chairman of  the Nominations Committee,
14,1 Mr, MASSAQUOI (Liberia), Chairman of the ‘  Nominations Committee; .  Mr, President, fellow delegates, the Nominations  Committee has met and I would like to report its  recommendation that the following persons and  countries be elected to the posts hereafter mentioned,
14.2 As President of the tenth session of this  General Conference the Committee selected France,
14,3 For Vice-Presidents we recommend the  following couniries; The Federal Republic of  Germany, Argentina, the United States of America,  Spain, Honduras, Israe),. Japan, Morocco, Pakistan,  Rumania, the United Kingdom and the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics, For the posts of the  various commissions and committees, the Commit-  tee recommends Professor Baugniet of Belgium as  the Chairman of the Administrative Commission;  for the Programme Commission, Dr, Beeby of  New Zealand; for the Legal Committee, Professor  Chatterjee of India, who, as you know, has already  been appointed; for the Nominations Committee;  Professor Massaquoi of Liberia; for the Credentials  Committee, Dr, Fuentes Pantoja : of Chile, who has  already been appointed and, in fact, submitted his  report this morning; for the Commiltee on Reports  of Member States, also already appointed, Pro-  tessor Tuncel of Turkey; for the Headquarters  Committee, also appointed, Dr. Parra Perez of  Venezuela, : "
14.4 The Committee further recommends or  suggests thal the election of the. Vice-Chairman  and Rapporteurs take place in the various commis- -  sions or committees, and that you should take into  consideration, in the selection of the Vice-Chairman  and Rapporteurs, the vlews expressed by certain  Member States during the meeting of the Nomina-  tions Committee.
15, The PRESIDENT;  l'call upon the delegate of Jordan.
16. Mr. SALIM (Jordan):  Mr, President and fellow delegates, I do not wish  to repeat the same argument to which you have .  listened before, I wish only to request that, under  Rule 85, we have a separate vote for the posts of  Vice-President and, in application of Rules 85 and 87,  paragraph 2, that the vote be taken by secret ballot,
17.1 The PRESIDENT:  Is that agreed to? Rule 85 states: "Parts of a   PLENARY MEETINGS  proposal shall be voted on separately, if a Member  reques{s that the proposal be divided, The resulting  proposal ¢ shall then be pp to a final vote in its entire-  ty." And Rule 87; "All other elections and decisions  relating to individuals shall be voted on by secret  ballot whenevei five or more Members shall so re-  quest or if the President so decides", Is it agreed  that the elections for Vice-Presidents should take  place separately ? Agreed,
17.2 I will ask France to nominate its delegate,  who will be President of the Conference,
18, Mr, SEYDOUX (France), (Translation from  the French);  France proposes Mr. Jean Berthoin, Minister of  Educetion, as President of the General Conference,  The PRESIDENT:  Fellow d:legates, it 1s most appropriate that the  first conference to be held in these riew buildings  should bé presided over by a representative of France,  an eminent intellectual who, on thé opening day, by  his eloquent plea for Human Rights, enchanted us all,  I now request the Minister of Education and the  leader of the Delegation to come and relieve me of  my office, and assume this great distinction.
19.  (Mr, Berthoin took the Chair).
20,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French):  Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express,  in a few simple but heartfelt words, my deep  appreciation of the honour which, in electing me,  you have done to my country, -
20,2 I accept this honour, indeed, but it is with  great humility that I assume the important responsi-  bilities it involves, especially since, during this  session of the Conference, my governmental duties  ‘ will prevent me from presiding as regularly as
1 would have wished over the work of the  Conference.
20.3 If you are agreeable, I proposé to speak at  greater length tomorrow, at the opening of our  afternoon meeting, when I shall tell you what is my  view of Unesco, of our {deal and of the urgent tasks  we have to carry out - tasks which, perhaps more  now than at any time in the past, we should hasten  to accomplish, 1 shall also have to convuy to you  the sincere thanks of all your Officers, and I thank  you now, on their behalf,
20,4 Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with  Rule 89 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference, which deals with elections to two or  more posts, we shall proceed to the election of the  Vice-Presidents of the Conference, as we have been  asked to do so and that request must be met. I shall  ask that the nominations be read out.
20,5 May I ask Mr. Aboussouan, of the Lebanese  delegation, and Mr. Pazur, of the Czechoslovak  delegation, to act as tellers? Are those gentlemen  present?’
20,6 The following aré thé proposals of the  Nominations Committee for the chairmanship of the  various commissions and committees, Programme  Commission: Dr, Beeby (New Zealand); Admini-  _ sirative Commission: Professor Baugniet
59  III  (Belglum); Legal Committee: at the next meeting  of this Committee, which is to take place in a tew  minutes, the name of Professor Chatterjee (India)  will be cubmitied to if,
20.7 1 will also repeat the names of the Chatrimen  already elected, Reports Committee; Professor  Tuncel (Turkey); Headquarters Committee; His  Excellency Dr, Parra-Perrez (Venezuela); Cre-  dentials Committee: ‘Mr, Fuentes Pantoja (Chile),
20,8 Before proceeding to the election of the  Vice-Presidents, 1 should like to ask the delegate  of Jordan to come up to the rostrum and repeat his  proposal concerning the procedure to be followed  for this election,  Mr, SALIM (Jordan):  Mr. President, in accordance with the rules and  regulations, I wish to request that Rule 87, para-  graph 2, of the Rules of Procedure be applied in the  election of the twelve Vice-Presidents of the Con-  ference,
22, The PRESIDENT + (Translation from the French):
1 shall now read Rule 87, paragraph 2 of the  Rules of Procedure; "All other elections and  decisions relating to individuals shall be voted on by  secret ballot whenever five or more Members shall  so request or if the President so decides", That  is the wording; I should point out that, for the mo-  ment, we are concerned with the nomination of  countries, I therefore ask the assembly lo indicate  whether it wishes this second paragraph to be  interpreted as meaning that I should accept a vote  by secret ballot. Will those in favour of a secret  ballot please raise their hands? Thank you,  Those against? The request is rejected. We shall  therefore pul to the vote the proposals that have  just been made by the Chairman of the Nominations  Committee. I call upon the Secretary to read out  those proposals.
23, Mr. MONTAGNIER, Seéretary of the’ General  Conference, (Translation from the French):  Mr. President, the following is the list of  countries proposed by the Nominations Committee  for the posts of Vice-President: The Federal  Republic of Germany, Argentina, Spain, United  States of America, Honduras, Israel, Japan,  Morocco, Pakistan, Rvmanis, the United Kingdom  and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
24,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French):  The meeting has heard the list read out,  it approve the proposals?  Does  (The vote was taken by a show of hands).
24,2 The Committee's proposals are adopted by
54 votes to 9. The following twelve countries are  therefore elected to occupy the posts of Vice-  President of the General Conference; The Federal  Republic of Germany, Argentina, Spain, United  States of America, Honduras, Israel, Japan,  Morocco, Pakistan,. Rumania, the United  Kingdcm and the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics,
1 PLENARY  APPOINTMENT oF CHAIRMEN OF COMMISSIONS
24,3 “The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French): :  T propose’ that we ‘should | now’ broceed wih, the  appointment of ‘the Chairmen of the Programme  Commission and the: Administrative Commission,  In this way the membérship’ of the General Commit-  tee will be complsted, “except for thé Chairman ‘of  the Legal Committeé who will be ‘elected ‘when that  Committee holds ‘its first nieeting, This will also  enable the Chairmen of the two main Commissions  to begin preparing the work of their Commissions,
24,4 Following the procedure adopted at previous  sessions of the General Conference 1 propose to
60     MEETINGS  adjourn’ this plenary meeting’ ‘and’ request delegates  to Fémain in thelr places,’ I shall then'formally  convene the fitsé meeling of thé Programme Com-  mission ‘and ask it to éléét ne Chairman; having  regard to the recominendation friade by the Nomin-  allons Committee, When this is done I shall -  adjourn the Programme Commissiôn and immedi-  ately convene a meeting of the Administrative  Commission and ask it to elect its Chairman in the  same way,
24,5 The plenary meeting is adjourned,  The meeting rose at 6 p,m,   IV  FOURTH PLENARY MEETING
6 November 1958, at 10, 45 a, m,  President: Mr, Maxwell M, RABB (United States of America)  CONTENTS  Admission of Associate Members of the Organization . , . 61  Admission of observers from international non-govern-  mental organizations, a 2 6 0 0 6 + 6 4 + 0 6 4 00 0 64  Presentation by the Chairman of the Executive Board of the  Reporté of the Director-General, ‘of the Proposed Pro-  gramme and Budget’ for 1959-1960 and of the Executive  Board's Report on {ts own Activities. 1 0 1 0 04000 68  General discussion of the Director-Generil's Reports and  the Proposed Programme and Budget’ for 1959 - 1960:  Speech by the delegate of the Netherlands . . . .  ADMISSION OF ASSOCIATE MEMBERS OF THE ORGANIZATION
1, The PRESIDENT:  The fourth plenary meeting is hereby called to  order, The first item on the agenda is the admission  of Assoclate Members of the Organization, “The  Director-General will present the report,
2.1 ‘ The DIRECTOR" “GENERAL:  Mr. , President and delegates, doctiment 10 C/30  reports that 1 received a letfèr dated ‘30 April, in-  forming me that Her Majesty's Government in the  United Kingdom wished to'submit to Unesco, under  Articlé IL 3 of the Constitition, “an ‘application on‘  behalf of Kuwait for “Assoëlate Membership of the  Organization, The text’ “of the létter is’ reproduced  and 1 heed not read it to’ you,’ hE
2,2 -lalso received ‘from Her Majesty! 8 Govern-  ment a letter dated 22 August, in the samé sense,  as regards the Federation’ of the Wést, Indies: the  text of the letter is also given, In paragraph 5, it  ig noted that the territories which constitute the  British Caribbean Group are now an Assoclate  Member of Unesco, and the Uet of territoriès con-  cerned is given. .
2.3 1 address sd a letter’ 1o'thé Direcior of Educa-  tion of Kuwait, ‘Hiviting the Government of Kuwait  to send oné or hiore observèrs to fhe’ ‘ténth session  of the Genera) Conference, pürauant 10 à décision ‘  adopted by the Executive” Board at i{s 50th session,  I also invited the Executive Board,’ at ‘té’ 61st session,  to authorizé the exfénsion of an, invitation to the  Government of the’ Federation of thé Wéat Indiès to  send observers’ to the. tenth ‘session of the General  Conference; that also has beén ‘done.
2,4 "It i now for the General Conferénce, under  Article II, 3 of the Constitution, and under Rule 92,  paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure, to decide  whether it wishes to admit Kuwait and the Federation
61  of the Wes! Indies to Associate Membership uf Unesco,  In accordance with Article IL 2 of the ‘Constitution,  and Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure, a majority of  two-thirds ia required.
2,5. Mr, Presidént, I now cali; your atlention to  document 10 C/48, in whtch the same procedures are  noted as having taken place in regard tô the Truet  Territory of Somalifand under Italien admintstration. -  À request was presented by the Italian Governmentf  and the Executive Board took favôufable action dn it  at the 51s| session. In accordarité with its authoriz-  ation, I have invited Somaliland to send observers  to the tent session of the’ General Conference.  I'need not repeat the Articles of the Constitution, and  the Rules of Procedure; ‘they are the same as I ré-  ferred to earlier,
3. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the Head of the delegation ‘of the United  Kingdom.
4,1 Sir Edward BOYLE (United {! 1hgaom): -  Mr. President,’ I should like to say a very few  words in support of the admission of Kuwait and the  Federation of the West Indies & as ‘Assoëlate Members  of the Organizätion; ‘as the’ United Kingdom’ was the  sponsor of these two’ countriea and; indeed; it was  the United Kingdom who invented this procedure of  admitting ‘Assoclate Members of Uriesco, We are  very ‘glad’ indeed that the two countries, Gharia and  Malaya, ‘who'were the first two countries’ to be  aponsored’. 28 Associate Membérs, have now bécome  full Members, and I am very pleased to speak iri-  support of the admission ‘of Kükait and the Federation  of the West Indles as Associate’ Members this’ morning,
4,2 We, in Britain, are paying close regard to the  affairs of Kuwait, partly for reasons which were  familiar to me when I was Junior Minister at the  Treasury, but partly because of the very long and