XViI-X VII  SEVENTEENTH PLENARY MEETING  The seventéenth plenary meeting was held in private  on 22 November 1958, at 10,30 a, m.  EIGHTEENTH PLENARY MEETING  - 22 November 1958, at 4, 15 p.m,  President: Mr, Jean BERTHOIN (France)  P P P   M   nu   ee
0  CONTENTS  Appointment of the Director-General, . + « + « + « + «  APPOINTMENT OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL  (Private meeting from 3, 30 to 4 p, m, - Opening  of the public meeting at 4. 15 p.m.)
1,1 The PRESIDENT (Trañälation from the French):  Ladies and gentlemen, the publiè' meeting is open,  The Chairman of the’ Executive Board will iow put’  before the General Conference the name of the candi  date proposed by the Board for the office of Director-  General, together with the draft contract, The Con--  férence will then Vote: on the proposal by secret ballot,  H this ballot results in the election of the candidate  proposed by the’ Exécutiye Board, I shall have the  honour of submitting the draft contract to the General  Conference for approval,
1.2 Icall upon the Chairman of the Executive Board,
2,1 Mr. RAADI (Iran), Chairman of the Executive  Board (Translation from the French):  Mr, Presidént, following upon my statemént at  this morning's private meeting, I am privileged to  announce to this assembly, in accordance with  Article VI 2 of the Constitution and Rule 99 of the  Rules of Procedure, that the Exécutive Board  proposes to the General Conference that Mr, Vittorino  Veronese be appointed Director-General of the United  Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organiza-  tion,
2,2 1 would point out that delegations have received  two draft resolutions, contained in dociiment 10 C/DR/
67 - one referring to the appointment of the Director-  “General, the other to the approval of his contract and  status, They have also received the draft contract  given in document 10 C/65. I will now readout the two  draft resolutions:
2,3 First draft resolution:  "The General Conference,
241  Considering the nomination presented to it by the  Executive Board, .  Acting in'accordance with Article VL 2 of the  Constitution, " '  Appoints Dr. Vittorino Veronese as Director-  Gétieral of the United Nations Educational, Sèientific  and Cultural Organization, his term of office begin-  ning on the day following the closure of the tenth  session of the General Conference,"
2.4 ‘ Second draft resolution: - .  "The General Conference,  Approves the draft contract presented to it by the  Executive Board establishing the terms of appointment,  salary, allowances and status of the Director-General,"
2,5 Mr, President, I submit these draft resolutions  for the approval of the General Conference.
3,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Ladies and ‘gentlemen, you have heaxd the proposals,  I should remind you that, to be entitled to voté, dele-  gations must satisfy the ‘conditions laid down in  Article 1V, C of the Constitution and in Rule 79 of the  Rules of Procedure; ‘ I will ask Mr, Oittinen, head of  the delegation of Finland, and Mr. Salazar, delegate  of El Salvador, to be kind enough to act as tellers,
3.2 While the meeting was suspended, the Secreta-  riat, I think, distributed ballot papers and envelopes  to you. Delegations entitled to vote should place in  the envelope one of the three papers distributed,
3.3 I would remind you that any voting paper which  bears a signature or superscription of any kind will  be regarded as invalid,
3,4 I would also remind you that the present ballot  relates only to the appointment of the Director-  General, You will be asked afterwards to vote on  the contract, The ballot will now be taken.  (The vote was taken by secret ballot, )
3.5 Here are the results of the secret ballot for