13 November 1958, at 3, 46 p, m.  President: Mrs, Maria SCHLUETER-HERMKES (Federal Republic of Germany)  CONTENTS  Election of twelve members of the Executive Board. . , © ‘230  ELECTION OF TWELVE MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD
1.1 “The PRÉSIDENT (Translation from the French):  Ladies and gentlemen, the fifteenth plenary meet-  ing is open, :
1,2 The General Conference is to deal this after-  noon with item 12 of its agenda; election of. twelve  members of the Executive Board, In accordance  with Rule 30, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure,  the Nominations Committee met this morning to  consider nominations for the twelve vacant seats,  having regard to the principles laid down in Article  ve A 2.of the. Constitution, :  ., As the Chairman of the Nominations Committee,  boing himself a candidate for the Executive Board,  resigned from his position | for this morning's meeting,  the Chair was taken by the Vice-Chairman, Mr.  . Kalergis, of the delegation of Greece, I therefore  -call upon the Chairman of the Nominations Committee,  who will present-to the General Conference the report  called for by Rule 30, paragraph 3 of the Rules of  Procedure.
2,1 Mr, KALERGIS (Greece), Acting Chairman of  the Nominations Committee;  Madam President, fellow delegates, it is my  pleasure and privilège to present the report of the  Nominations Committee which met here this morning.  ‘The Chairman of the Nominations Committee, Mr,  Massaquoi, .whose ‘candidature was proposed yester-  day by his Government, ‘has asked me, as Vice-  Chairman of the Nominations Committee, to take his  place at this morning's ‘proceedings,
2,2 “The task of the Committee was to consider  nominations for vacant seats on the Executive Board,  having regard to the principles laid down in Article  V. A, 2- of the Constitution, and to submit to the Con-  ference general observations on the manner in which  -that Article should be applied, together with the names  of all the candidates, Lu
2.3 _- At the beginning of the meeting, , Mr. Vittorino  Veronese, .on behalf of the delegation « of italy, in-  formed the Committee that his Government had  ‘decided not to present a new candidate in replacement  of the late Ambassador Egldio Reule, thus paying a  tribute to his outstanding personal qualities and  achievements and providing an opportunity for the  election of a representative of a new Member State
230     to the Executlve. Board of Unësco. Many delégatés  associated themselves with this’ tribiite to the memory  of our late coliedgue and friend, ‘and I am sure that  we would all wish to réaftirm’ our appréciation of his  outstanding Bery ces to Unesco and to record our -  sense of the | loss, “sustained by the Organfzation and  by ourselves, personally, by | his sudden death before  our Conférence opened.
2.4 Ihave also to record” {nat His Excellency Mr, *  Carlos Morla Lynèh, héad of thé delégation of Chile,  on behalt of his Government, “withdréw’ the candidature  of Professor ‘Frañcléco Walker} Linares, thus greatly  facilitating’ the ‘task béford this’ ngéting of electing
12 members to fill vacancies on thé Executive Board,
2,5 The ‘delegations of the ‘following countries also  madé observations oh the cdndidalufés presented,  and on critéria for élection of the members of the  Board, having regard to Article V, A, paragraph 2,  of the Constitution: El Salvador; Ethiopia, France,  Iran, Japan, “Lebaron, Mototco, Norway, Poland,  Spain, Union of Soviet Soclällst Republics, United  Arab Republic and United Kingdom.
2,6 The following general’ ‘considerations were  stressed in the course of thé discussion:  {a) In interpreting Arifclé’ v. A, ‘paragraph 2, of  the Constitution, in which'it is stated that the General  Conference "ghall also have regard to the diversity  of cultures and a balanced geographical distribution”,  it was necessary to béar In mind the ‘diversity of  cultures within a given geographical region, Reglons  such as Europe, the Middle Easf and 'Asfa were not  culturally’ homogeneous and an effort should be made  to ensure proper representation.”  (b) In determining the composition of the Executive  Board account should be taken of increeses in Unesco  membership in the various ‘geographical regions and  an effort made to ensure that an épportunity is given  for new Mémber States to have a voice in the Executive  Board, ;  (ec) Any fhcrease in the, total membership of the  Executive Board should ‘Fesult in better geographical  and cultural representation.  (d) The jmportance of the personal competence,  qualities and experience of individual candidates was ’  emphasized, in conformity with the provisions of the  Constitution,  (e) Reference was also made to the traditional  representation of the great powers, France, the   PLENARY  Union of Soviet Sodidliat Républics, the United King-  dom and the United States of America, and to the  presence of three of these powers in Europe, At the  same time, it was pointed out that there was no cons-  titutional provision for permanent representation of  any particular Member. State, -:: | ‘..# i: n°
2,7 Madam President, fellow delegates, I have the  honour to present the names ‘of the candidates for  election to the Executive Board, _  H, E, Professor Paulo E,:de BERREDO CARNEIRO,  Brazil; -! Professor. Tha HLA (Burma; Hy En Dre G,  P, MALALASEKERA, Ceylon!’ Or, Adolf HOFF-  MEISTER; Cgechoslovakidj H;E,/ Dr, José Ricardo  MARTINEZ COBO, Ecuador; Mr, Jullen CAIN, ..-  France; - Mr,. Çasely Menagseh Obuobisa MATE,  Ghana} Professor. Marceau LOUIS; Halt; :Mr, R,  SOEBROTO,» Indonesia;: Hi Ey. Mr, {Ali Asghar *-. -  HEKMAT, Iran; Dr, Mohammed NASIR, Iraq: Pro-  LUYEN, Viet-Nam.
3. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 thank the Chairman of the Nominations Commit-  tee. The delegate of Haiti has asked to speak, I call  upon him, i
4, Mr. GEORGES (Haiti) (Translation from the  French}: … .- :  dat AA  Cen vaine RÉ desde an SY cad La vn Sy
5: The PRESIDENT (Translation trom the French) 1.think thé General Conference will wish fo proceed  to vote forthwith, accéiding to the provisions of =  Rules 87,and 89 of the Rules of Procedure and of the  Rules for ‘the Conduct of Elections by Secret Ballot,  In accordance with Rafe 2 of the after, '{ will ask  Mr. Pedro Quiritaniila, of the delégation of Nicaragua,  and Mr, Ionescu, of the delegation of Rumania, to be  good enough td act as téllers, I will now éäll upon  the Secretary of the Conference to give you a'brief »  reminder of certain practical aspects of the voting,
6. :* Mr, MONTAGNIER (Translation from the...  French), Secrétary of the General Conferenceii-, : -  Madam President;; the Secretariat has had ballot -  papers aiid énvelopes diätribüted to the delegations,  The ballot paper bears thé. référence 10.C/Form/11.’  In accordance with Rule 13 ‘of the Rules for the.’  Conduct ôf Electiond by Secret Ballot, the following  ‘are considered invalld:.(1) ballot papers on which there  _aré more names than persons to be elected; (3) ballot  ‘papers in which thé candidates have revealed their iden-  tity, in particular by dpposing their signature or mention-  ing the name of the Member State théy represent; (3)  ballot papers on which the name of any candidate  appears more than once; (4) ballot papers on which  there are fewer names than there are persons to be
231     MEETINGS XV  elected, : Delegations are theréfore asked to insert on  the ballot paper twelye nameé;<té be selected from :  the list submitted by the Chairman of the Nominations  Committee - remembering; of course, that thé dele-  gation of Haiti has withdrawn its nomination, It is:  essential to insert on the ballot papers the names of  the candidates, and optional to insert on them the  names of the candidates‘ delegations, . Under Rule 12  of the Rules for.the Conduct of Elections by Secret  Ballot, blank ballot papers - that is, those on which  no names are written - are considered to be absten-  tions, ~
7, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French}:  The délegate of Liberia has asked to speak, ona  point of order,
8, Mr, MITCHELL (Liberia): RTE 4  Madam President, my delegation simply wished a  clarification as to'whether we are required to vote on  the sheet that was passed to us by the Secretariat  or whether we are required to vote on a clean skeet  of paper. Tes
9.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  It must be quite clear, ladies and gentlemen, that  you will use, for voting, the paper 10 C/Form/11 -  which will now be distributed.
92 [declare the ballot open.  (The vote was taken by secret ballot, The tellers  called the President's attention to a ballot paper  which appeared to be invalid, ) :
10,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  One of the ballot papers is invalid, because the  vote was recorded on a blank sheet instead of on the  official form. - . . '
10,2 - The delegate of the Lebanon wishes to speak,  on a point of order, -
11, - Mr, AMMOUN (Lebanon) (Translation from the  French): - ‘ .  Madam President, if the only reason for considèr-  {ng this ballot paper invalid is thatthe vote has not !  been recorded on ope of the ‘official forms distributed  to us, this 18 fot enough to invalidate it, The essential  point is that the voter shall not: reveal his identity, ”-
1 think a vote is valid irrespective of the type of paper  on which it is made, .. If the objection is raised on the  grounds that the ballot paper does not give the :  names of the candidates but only those of the countries,  that ie another matter, . But we are not obliged to use  the papers distributed to us, . The essential thing is  that whatever papers we do use do not reveal the .:.  voter's identity, I think this is quite elementary as  regards the regularity of the ballot, . wo  ES LE ES n
12, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 would like the Legal Adviser to give us his  opinion, + . . - :
13... Mr. SABA {Translation from the. French), - .  - Legal Adviser! : pc 1-5 ,  Madam President, I myself am a little doubtful, °  But the fact remains that in answer to a question -  from the delegate of Liberia, I think - you did explain,   Xv  "before -votirig began; that special ballot papers wuld  be distributed and should be used for the vote, As a  general principle, : I do not think that a vote is - inva-  lidated sitmply,by its being recorded on a blank sheet  of paper; ' and that {s.what I was proposing to say  just now, However, as à question was asked before  the voting procedure began, and you gave & reply  which constituted a ruling, as it were, ‘I think that .  you could consult the Conference to discover whether  the majority view is that, in this instance, the ballot  paper should, or should not, be cancelled.
14,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French):  Ladies and gentlemen, we will take a vote on this  question,
14,2 The delegate of the United Kingdom wishes to  speak, on a point of order,’ !
15, Sir ‘Edward. BOYLE (united Kingdom);  Madam President; on a point of order,’ since x  has been suggested by the Legal Adviser that you  take the wishes of the majority of the assembly on -  thie point, I would Like to move, beyond any question,  that the ballot on the ordinary sheet'ôf paper, not on  the special sheet, ‘should on this occasion te taken  as valid, - You did; it is perfectly true; announce to  us that the normal procedure was to vote oh the  sheets with which we were issued, but there really  is nothing I can see about this in the rules, and I  would suggest that {t would bé perfectly reasonable  in the situation in which we find ourselves that the  ballot paper in question should be regarded as valid  on this occasion, .
16, 1 “Thé PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French): Ce  ‘Ladies and “gentlemen, I see, trom your applause,  that the majority is in favour of the ballot paper.  being regarded as valid, We will therefore accept it,
16.2 The delegate of Uruguay wishes to speak, on  a point of order,
17.1: Mr" 'SECCO ELLAURI (Uruguay) (Translation  from the ‘épañish): es  Madani Présidént; ladies ‘and “gentlemen; 1 am  sorry the Chair should have titerpreted the ‘opinion  of the Conference as favourtig the admission of this  ballot paper,: We take thé éontraïy view -‘that@it >"  should be déclaréd invalid; “because the ’egnaldera-  tion just mentioned - that the Prééldént häd already -  givena ‘ruling ‘ on the’ Bubject ='1s not of sufficient  legal force, ‘since the Président déés not make the ‘  rules büt-inerelÿ interprets them, and that Anterpre-  tation may be“corréét or may be fncorrest.’
17.2. -The final'éay if this matter rests “with the  Conference,’ and it strikes u  that there’ is; here;  one consideration’of great weight and ‘importance,  The ballot on which wé“aré at present érigaged isa  secret ballet, and the whole system is based on the  principle that the voting is'éécret, We now have the  case where one vote has been recorded on’ a paper  which’ ¢an bé identified; i and since this paper differs  from the othérs in that material respect; thé vote,  becomes individualized;' and for this reason violates  the secrecy of the ballot, ‘We therefore propose  that this vote be regarded as invalid,
18,1 ~The PRESIDENT {Translation from the  French}. -  Ladies and gentlemen; we will put the question of  this ballot paper's validity.to the vote. .  The vot. was taken by a show of hands, )  The ballot paper is valid: 41 votes in favour,
5 against and 5 abstentions, .
18,3 Will the tellers kindly resume the counting?  (The tellers reported that one ballot paper bore  the n name of a delegate who was not a candidate, )
19.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French} co ’  Ladies and gentlemen, thté ballot j Japer must be  cancelled, in accordarice with:Rule 14 of thé Rules  for the Conduct of Eléctioris by Secret Ballot, It bears  the name of a délegate who hai not been nominated,  ‘(The tellers concluded thé ‘cduntirig, ) 4
19, 2 Ladies and ‘gentierien, here are the results of  the ballot,” Number 6f Member States entitled to vote!
80, 'Abgeiits 2. i Abatentions: 0, - Number of inyalld  ballot papers: '2}" Number of vôtes ‘recôrdéa: 76,  Majority required: ‘30. Thirteen ‘candidatés ‘obtained  an absolute majority, arid, "of these, 10 secured  more than 43 votes; the 3 others ‘obtalried 41 votes,  The first 10 are elected, and we must now have a  second ballot to decide between the 3 candidates who  received 41 votes each, They are Mr. Soebroto,  Mr, Tuncel and Mr, Ngo Di Luyen, Two of these  three must be elected, ‘ Ballot papers will now be  distributed,
19,3 Ladies and gentlemen, 1 I will now give you the  ‘detailed results of the first ballots = -  Sir Ben Bowen Thomas (United Kingdom) 68 votes;  Mr, Julien Cain (France) 67 ‘Votes; Mr, Eek (Sweden)
56 votes; Mr, Sharif (Pakistan) 83 votes; Mr,  Martinez Cobo (Écuador) 50 votes)" Mra, Pecson,  (Philippines). 44 votes. ‘In’ al , 10’ méinbers élécted,
19,4 We will How have ‘ a ballot to decide between  Mr, Soebroto, Mr Tuiicel ‘and Mr, Ngo Dinh Luyen,  each of whori obtained 41 votes,” May I remind you  that two of these’ three ames must bé entered on the  ballot paper?  {The vote. was ‘taken by seèrêt ballot, )
19,6 {Here are the results of the ballot for the  election of two members of the Executive’ Board:  Mr. Tuncel (Turkey) 64 votes; Mr. Soebroto (Indo-  nesta) 45 votes; - Mr. -Ngo Dinh Luyén (Viet-Nam)
43 votes, - ‘Mr. -Turicel and Mr. iSoebroto are elected,
19,6: I feel sûre ‘thé Genéral Conference will wish  me to ‘offer éongratulations and good wishes to the  delégates. who have today been elected members of  the Executive Board, ©* *.- 1. !.
18,7 1 will'how read out the numbèr of votes  obtained by the candidatés who were rot elected,  Méssrs, Massäquoi (Liberia) 37; Mate (Ghana)
33; Hoffmelster (Czechoslovakia) 20; Malalagekera  (Ceylon) 26; - Nasir (Iraq) 26; - Attagara (Thailand)
3 Vol  The meeting rose at 7, 30 p,m,