2 December 1958, at 11 a.m,  President: Mr, Joaquin TENA ARTIGAS (Spain)  CON T E N Ts  Place of the “eleventh session of the General Conference .. 243  Second Report of the Credentials Committee +. + + à 6°. 0. 244  Measurés to be taken and recommendations té be made with .  a view to ensuring that Member States maintain the free  functioning of educatioii in the territories under their ad-  ministration ……. + à o30-0 6 0 0 6 + 0° 0'até 0 0 C6 0] "- 244  Admission of the State of Singapore ‘as’ Associate Member 247  Reduction of the numbér, size and cost of working papers °  for the General Conference and the Executive Board. . 248  - Report of the Reports Committee. « « « + « + + 20. 250  PLACE OF THE ELEYENTH SESSION OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE
1,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish):  The meeting is open, At the request of the Chair-  man of the Executive Board, who has to attend an  official function, we will first discuss item 21 of the  agenda. ,  :1,2 ‘The relevant document is 10 C/16, I call upon  Dr, Raadi, Chairman of the Executive Board, who  will present the report,
2,1 ‘Mr, RAADI (Iran); Chairman of the- Executive  Board (Translation from the French)i:. : -  . Mr, President, I have the honour. to submit to the  General Conference the draft resolution appearing in  document 10 C/16, concerning the place and date of  the eleventh séssion of the General Conference, --  - As is stated in the document, - by 23-September  PA - that is, by the time specified in the Rules of  Procedure - no Member State had invited the General  Conference tô hold its eleventh session’on its territory.
2.3 Consequently, having considered the Director-  General's proposals, the Executive Board recom-  mends that the General Conference hold its eleventh  séssion at the Headquarters of the Organization and  that this session open early in November 1960,
3 The PRESIDENT (Translation trom the Spanish):  Does any delegate wish to speak on this item of  the agenda, which the Chairman of the Executive  Board has just introduced? I call upon the delegate  of Brazil, -
41 Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Trans-  lation from the French}:  Mr. President, fellow delegates, I can but support  the Executive Board's proposal conceraing the place  of the session of the General Conference in 1960, The
243     time-limit prescribed in our Rules of Procedure for  the communication of invitations has now expired;  we shall therefore - and it will of course be a great  pleasure to all of ua r be meeting again in Paris in  November 1960,
4,2 I should, however, like to take this opportunity  of informing you - but without asking you to take any  immediate decision, since that would be out of place -  that my Government hopes to welcome the General  Conference of Unesco, either in 1962, or in 1964  should more brilliant invitations; to which I'should be  the first to bow, be forthcoming for 1962. , We are not  in a hurry, but we are proud to be able to inform this  assembly now that we hope soon to see the General ’  Conference of Unegco meeting in the new capital of  Brazil, which is springing up on the central plateau  of the South American continent, some 760 miles  from the coast; hére, modern civilization is gradually  emerging from the forest and desert and, once again,  : Man, master of his fate and of the world in which he  lives, is building : his own home, . It is, I repeat, in  this city of Brasilia - to which the Director-General  of Unesco, my dear and distinguished friend, Dr.  Luther Evans, has been kind enough to introduce you  through the exhibition which we owe to him and for  which we are extremoly grateful - it is in this’ city  of Brasilia, city of the future, that we hope soon to -  welcome the General Conference of Uneaco,
5,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I am sure that I am interpreting the feelings of the  entire assembly in thanking the Government of Brazil  for its invitation to us to meet one day in its new  capital, Brasilia, now being built, This is not a  decision that we have to take forthwith, .but I am  confident that we shall all be able to meet there at  some future date.
6.2 If no other delegate wishes to speak, I take it  that the whole assembly is agreed that we should   XIX PLENARY  approve the proposal of the Executive Board,. The  eleventh session of the Genéral Conference will-there-  fore be held at the Organization's Headquarters in  Paris, early in November 1960,
5.3 We will now turn to the firat item of our agenda, :  I call upon the Chairman of the Credentials Commit-  tee, who will present the Committee's second report,  SECOND REPORT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE
6.1 Mr, FUENTES PANTOJA (Chile), Chairman  of the Credentials Committee (Translation from the  Spanish):  Mr, President; the Credentials Committee held  its third meéting on Friday, 28 November to examine  the credentials recelved from certain States after  the Committee's first meeting, .. :-. 1:
6.2 The Committee found that the delegations of  certain Member Statés, which had already submitted  provisional credentials, had subsequently, in accord-.  - ance with Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure of the  , General Conference, presented credentials in good  and due form issued either by the head of the State,  the head of the government or the Minister of Foreign  Affairs, or by another Minister authorized by the  Minister of Foreign Affairs to issue credentials,  These States are as follows: Belgium, Colombia,  Cuba, Ethiopia, Guatemala, Indonesia, Iran and  Mexico, . ‘
6,3 The Committee recommends that the delega-  tions of the aforesaid States be finally admitted to  take part in the work of the tenth session of the -  General Conference, ‘‘ ’
6.4 The Committee found that the following terri-  tories, which had aceredited observers to the present  session of the General Conference, had, after their  admission tc associate membership of the Organiza-  tion, submitted credentials in good and due form  accrediting theii delegations in their new capacity:  Federation of the West Indies, Kuwait and Somaliland.
6.5 Credentials have also been received accrediting  an observer from Ireland, a State not a Member cf  the Organization,
6.6 The Committee recommends that the General  Conference accept thesa credentials,  i
7.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  If no delegate wishes to speak; I shall consider  the report of the Credentials Committee as adopted.  It is adopted,  MEASURES TO BE TAKEN AND RECOMMENDATIONS TO BE  MADE WITH A VIEW TO ENSURING THAT MEMBER STATES  MAINTAIN THE FREE FUNCTIONING OF EDUCATION IN THE  TERRITORIES UNDER THEIR ADMINISTRATION
7.2 We shall row pass on to item 16. 1,2 2 of the  agenda, A draft resolution on this subject is -  presented by Greece in document 10 C/DR, 38, I call  upon the delegate of Greece,
8,1 Mr. KALERGIS (Greece) (Translation from  the French):  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, at its ninth  session in New Delhi, the General Conference, on
244     MEETINGS  the propogal of Gi tek delegation, adopted resolu-  * tion'7, 81° inviting the Member States of Unesco:  (a) To {aké,” everywhere; . all adequate steps to  ensure the free functioning of ‘education;  - {b) To'snsure that no obstacle of any kind shall be  placed ir the way of the regular operation of schools,
80 that stüdy may be free and unrestricted;  (c) To adopt the necessary measures to ensure  that everywhere education shall respect the national,  religious and linguistic traditions of the inhabitants,  and that its nature shall not be aliered for political  reasons, "
8,2 That proposal was motivated by the very  serious situation of the schools of the Greek popula-  {lon in'the'island of Cyprus,:lying, as you know, in  the centre.of thé Mediterranean Basin, which was  the cradle of: the’ most important civilizations of the  world, .Of thé present population of this island, with  its three thousand years of Greek culture, 80% are  Greeks, 18% Turks and 2% Armenians and Maronites,  according té British Government statistics,
8.3. - The Greek delegation would not like the slightest  doubt to subsist in anyone's mind concerning the  nature of the grievances here stated. In this hall,  where we are all concerned. with edùcation, science  and culture, politics can have no place, and I shall  certainly not refer to them - particularly as the  political aspects of the Cyprus problem are, at this  moment, being considered by the United Nations  General Assembly in New York, Unfortunately, how-  ever, the Greek delegation feels obliged to raise the  matter again from the educational angle, becavze,  since the last éession in New Delhi, not only has the  situation not develèped in'the manner prescribed in  the resolution which I have just mentioned, but it has  become even more serious as a result of new admin-  istrative meegsures which are in flagrant contradiction  with paragraph (c) of the resolution, where it is  requested that the nature of education be not altered  for political reasons,
8, 4 - These in¥asures, gentlemen, -are of two kinds:
8,5 The British authorities are making it increas-  ingly difficult for the Greék communal schools to  function properly, particularly because of the dearth  of primary teachers, who can no longer bé recruited  in Greece, ‘7hereas the Turkish schools can obtain  their primary teachers from Turkey, Subventions -  are also beiñg reduced, Furthermore, a great rnany  schools are being closed for long périods on various  pretexts and for minor infringements of the regula-  tions, such as the participation of pupils in patriotic  demonstrations or the hoisting of the Greek flag over  a school,
8,6 .The second: ype “of action tékeri by the British  authorities’ consists iri establishing government ;  schools, known as Intercommunal Technical Schools,  and in promoting the development of these institutions,  where, on thé pretext of providing à more technical  education, young Cypriots are given a cosmopolitan »  education, dévoid of all national tradition, either  Greek or Turkish.
8,7 As I do not wish to overtax the patience of the  Conference by quoting wearisome statistice, I will  merely mention here a few figures which seem to  me to speak for themselves:
8,8 During the achool year 1955-1956, 417 primary  schools (out of a total of 499) were closed for varying   PLENARY "MEETINGS xix  lengths of time or evèn- permanently; +thig seriously :'  affected the education of 47;000 ¢hildren out of a total  of 62,0000,: During the school year 1957-1958," :
32 schools were cloged dnd have remained so pérma-  nently,” At the secondary level, the 8 largest lycées  have beeri closed, affecting 8; 000 boys and girls gut.  ‘of a total number of 15,000, , "At the end of 1956, that  is, at the very time when the United Kingdom delega-  tion in New Delhi ’ was approving résolution 7,81; the  British authorities expelled permanently from Cyprus
130 secondary school teachers (out of a total of 500) -  practically all those who had been recruited in Greece.  No reason for this general measure was given, but it  was insinuated, without proof, that theae teachers  were imbuing their pupils with a hatred of foreign  dominion, - RY JE EON
8,8 -To return to the facts, , the dismissal of teachers  from Greece has made it doubtful whether secondary  schools in Cyprus can continue to function at all,”  since the number of secondary teachers who" cafi "bé  recruited locally is inadequate, - The British'author-  ities, takirig advantage of this difficult situation, -  have done their utmost to push forward their project  for the establishment of Interéommiunal Schools,  which it promotés in every possible way; and hotably  by larger subventions. - I would here add d word of  explanation: the subventions granted by the British  authorities are borne on the -island's'budget, * Now,  since this budget is derived from the taxes levied in  the island and since 80% of the tax-payers are Greeks,  it is in fact the Greek Cypriots who indirectly main-  tain these Interéommunal Schools, to which they may  quite well be unwilling to send their children, How  does this square with the fundamental prinéiple pro-  claimed in the Universal Declaration of Human ”-  Rights, to the effect that parents are alone entitled  to éhuoge the kind of education that shall be given to  their éhildren? :
8,10" - On the other handj } the British aüthoritles  give their full support to the Turkish schools, The  latter receive substantial subventions and are ubso-  lutely free to recruit their teachers in- Turkey,  Sixty new secondary teachers arrived from Turkey  during the years 1956-19858, We are of courte thé .  first to commend, very sincerely, the ldfge me'isure’  of help given to the schools of the Turkish minority, -  because we whole-heartedly subscribe tothe view that  each of the island's two communities - provided they  are placed on an equal footing and no impediments  are imposed - is entitled to settle its own young .  people's educational problems to the beat advantage.  In practice, however, the treatment accorded them  is do different, the inequality so striking, that I feel  bound to give further examples of this marked  dfscrimination,- 3
8.11 '. During the past two years, eubventions tor  achool libraries," ‘amoüriting to £3,000 aterling, were  allocated to the Turkish communities, as against -  £5,000 for the Greek communities, Thé' latter sum  seems ridiculously small, consideririg the Gréek and  ‘Turkish populations are in the ratio of 4 to 1,
8,12 How we come to fellowships granted to  primary teachers for study abrodd, As in thé case  of school libraries, I am referring to an official -.  British document; namely, thé "Report of the  Department of Education for the School Year 1856-57",  by W. B, : Tudhope, Director of Education, During the
245     school year 1956; the total umber of fellowships  granted was 76; “of which 65 were for universities or  colleges in Great Britain and 41 for Turkish institu-  tions, None for Greece, : 5°:
8,13- I should now like to tén youl about a a very  recent measure, as vexatious a8 the others, but .  probably even more dargerdus, wry 4 rye
8,14 ' By Decree of 29 August 1968; nd pupil ray  be 4ransferred from one éécondäry ‘school to another  without special permission from the Governor of the  island, and headmastérs are forbidden to have in-  their classes a number of pupils gréater than that’ of  the pupils enrolled in 1966, ‘I doubtiif many of you  have immediately grasped the full implications of that  measure or reâlized its hidden purpose, I myself  took somé time'to‘do so, The British authorities  annourited that they had decided to take this restrictive  meäsurè in order to protect the’ parents of children  enrolled, or likely to be enrolled, in government  schools against the contempt, or even threats, of the  Greéks who remained attached to their communal  schools, - '
8,15 As it would be'too extreme a measure simply  to close the Greek comiiunal’ schools;’ everything -  possible has béen done, indirectly, to make it difficult  to run thém satisfactorily,” Thé fact that it {8 forbid-  den to recruit primary teachéïŸs in Greece and that it  is impossible to find enough of them in Cyprus has  already caused a 20% reduction in school hours, The  cutting down or digcontinuation 6f subventions has  made the Greek schools moré expeñsive, so that  parents with véry small iñcomés cannot éasily send  their childrén there, ‘whereas the: government schools  are practically free,” So, there {6 the temporary or  permanent closing of schools for petty reasons and  now, finally, this Décrée,’ making it absolutely forbid-  den to transfer à pupil from oné school to another, or  to enrol one pupil more than in 1056, Apart from all  other considerations) what’ account 16'taken of the  normal rate of population growth? It lé of course  overlooked} ‘0 that pupils’ over the Jumber enrolled  in:1956 will be obliged to attend the ‘government  schools - which; “since they Were ‘boycotted by the  Greek’ population of the island, have been in danger  of having to close down for lack of pupils, I repeat,  gentlemen, this méasuré is flagrantly at variance  with the great principle proclainied in the Universal  Declaration of Hürpañ Rights, Fe
8.16 What, then, has been the aim; based on’  political considérations, ‘of thé British authorities  over a period going back Well beyond ‘19667? This  aim, perfectly clear and srecise] must be obvious to  any impartial observer; it 1à to divést éducation of  its national, traditional and Héllénic characteristics  in the hope = and what a natve hope! - of making  young Cypriots lute their naflonal feelings and of  gradually {raining Up à young generation with a cos-  mopolifan outlook, dévoid of any deep attachment to  the rich heritage 'of Heilenté éulture, chntént with -  its own mediocrity and faintly. tinged ‘with British  culture, In a word, the aim’is to de Hellenize  education, It is amazing that administrators 80 ex-  periencéd as the British cir cherish sich Utopian  hopes; apparently beliving that,‘ by the dimple process  of setting up a few good schools providing a sound  English education, they can easily put an end to the  aspirations of the Cypriot people and destroy the   XIX PLENARY  feeling of pational solidarity thanks to which they  have been able to survive as a nation for three  thousand years, retaining their passionate devotion.  to their language, their culture and their national  traditions, despite the trials which History has not  spared them, ,
8,17 ©! thought 1 detected in the ‘interesting speech  made in this assembly by the’ distinguished head of  the United Kingdom delegation on 10 November acon-  demnation of any such aim; -he said, in‘effect -.  I quote his exact words - "it ig no part of our function  to attempt to construct a sort of supra-pational ;  culture, a new. world-wide humanism which is to  replace all traditional loyalties", - It gives me great  pleasure to subscribe whole-heartedly: to this declara-  tion by Six Edward. ‘Boyle,’ imbued as {t is with a.  spirit which, whilst realistic, is at the same time  profoundly humane and in accord with the - ‘ideals of -.  Unesco, - Jt is inevitable, therefore, that one very  distressing question should arise!. how.are we to  reconcile the fact that Great Britain, a stronghold  of democracy and liberalism, always has been and  continues to be the home of outstanding humanists -  including the celebrated historian Macaulay and  Professor Gilbert Murray - remarkable for their  study of the history, culture, language and way of  life of Greece, and for their work in teaching the  cultural elite of British youth to know and love  Grrece - how; I say, are we to reconcile this fact  with the behaviour of the British authorities in Cyprus,  who are open to the accusation of trying to ‘’de-  Hellenize" a Greek people proud to apply to them-. . .  selves a phrase coined more than 25 centuries ago:  "the name Hellene belongs. to all who have a share in  our culture"? .
8,18 ‘We are constantly ‘being reminded of the sad  fact that nearly half the population of the globe ie  deprived of education, It is our primary, our sacred  duty, as Members of Unesco, to remedy this deplor-  able state of affairs;. and in face of this urgent duty, .  we must, at all costs; safeguard the existing centres  of culture and civilization, - It is incumbent on us all-  to see to it that the illiterate are enabled to read and  write; but it ia no less important that we. should  preserve the cultural assets already amassed by  protecting the right of the more privileged nations  to continue to follow their ancient traditions ard to  draw on their national intellectual and, cultural  heritage. .
8,18 To sum up, x should like, to say ‘that the.  problem we are discussing today is not a political  one, involving the rights of Greece or the pres -  eminence of Greek culture; -Àt is a question of respect  for human rights, of respect. for the prior right of -  parents, over and above rulers even, to choose, the  kind of education that shall be given to their children,  There are times, in the life of a country;. when the  solution of a political problem ‘can bg. postponed; but  this cannot be done. where human, rights are concerned,  Because those rights are more sacred, respect for  them muat compel recognition without delay. .
8,20 If I am today defending the right of Cypriot .  parents to continus to send. their children, without  let or hindrance, to their communal schools, it is  not because those schools provide a Greek education  (which is, incidentally, in accordance with the  established tradition of the island) but because the  :MERTINGT
248  Cypriots, like the English; the Turks; the Greeks,  the Americans, the Russians and every other people  in the world, have the right to choose for themselves  what kind of education to give their children, -
8,21 .. This ia the fundamental right which the Greek  delagation has the honour, In presenting draft resolu-  Mon 10 C/DR/38, to ask you to proolaim; it is  couched, deliberately, in general terms, as it is  designed to defend the sacred principles of the right -  to education and to cause them to be respected  throughout the world,  . The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  "1 call upon the delegate of the. United Kingdom,
10, 1. “sir Edward ‘BOYLE (Untied Kingdom); oo  - Mr, :President;: l'am glad that the representative  of Greece felt able to quote with aomé approval  certain. words which I uttered in the plenary session  of 10 November, - I, too, have pleasure in-supporting  the resolution which has just been moved, although  I may have a few. comments of a slightly different  nature to make later on, -
10,2 The United Kingdom at the ninth session of the  General Conference voted in favour of resolution 7,81,  because its terms express not only general principles  for which Unesco stands, but also many of thé ideals  of education which are pursued both in the United  Kingdom and in many territories overseas for which  RE th  “ the United Kingdom is responsible. .Indeed, for that  reason we accept and support the draft resolution that  has just been presented by the representative of the  Greek delegation, - Not only do we continue to support  and respect the terms of resolution 7, 81 adopted ut  New Delhi and quoted in 10 C/DR/38 which is now .  before us; but we have supported and voted at this’  Conference in favour of resolutions in the proposed  programme and budgét which make the same points, . :
10,3 I would refer the Conference to resolution 1, 41  which invites Member States to provide equal opportu-  nities for education at all levels and for all in metro-  politan and overseas territories; "due regard having  been taken of the cultural individuality of each country  and territory! nN . +,
10,4 Mr, President; that is exactly what we seek to  do, as I believe the British récord in many parts of  the world clearly shows, The same principles are .  repeated.in resolution. 1. 61'in regard to out-of-school  education, .. We supported that resolution also in the  Programme Commission because we not only accept  these principles but seek consistently to put them  into practice, But we also supported resolution 1, 31  which urges Member States "to encourage the teaching  in schooln of points of view which are not prejudicial  to relations with other nations or harmful to that  understanding between peoples which is essential to  the establishment of a real and lasting peace; and to  discourage the teaching of inflammatory political  points of view”... …-
10, 5 ..In presenting his draft resolution this morning,  the representative of Greece made a number of -  allegations in regard to éducation in Cyprus,’ claiming  that the free functioning of educatica and the rights of  parents were being obstructed in their territory, in  contravention of resolution 7, 81 of thé ninth session  of the Unesco General Conference, I feel I must  make a few comments on the points which he made.  au   PLENARY MEETINGS
10.6 - Aslam sure we all know here; the tragic  situation in Cyprus today which éauses deep çoncern  in my own country among many men and women of all  political parties, dnd of no political party at all, is  a matter which goes far beyond the maintenance of  _the free functioning of education. Indeed, at this  moment, itis the ‘subject of debate in the United -  Nations, in New. York, .! 4 In fulfilment of our. respon-  sibility for the welfare of the inhabitants of Cyprus,  and re7ognizing that others who are dur friends and  allies are also deeply concerned for their welfare,  we have gone to unusual lengths to share the. problem  with them in the hope of finding the best solution that  everyone concerned can accept, : We have conferred  over and over again with the governments concerned;  the question of Cyprus was discussed in the North’  Atlantic Council throughout the month of October, : .  and Her Majesty's Government were fully. prepared  to join in à conference which that Council proposed  to call hére in Paris, under the chairmanship of -  Mr, Spaak, We remain ready for s a conference at  any time and; indeed,:we in Britain were naturally  disappointed when the Greek Government suddenly  decided that they could riot attend, : But quite frankly  we do not feel that the Unesco General Conference is  the appropriate forum in which to pursue this very  highly complex and difficult subject. : Now may I say  a word about education and cultural individuality?  I want to make the point thdt the regard for the  cultural individuality of each territory under our  administration, to which we have subscribed in  resolution 1, 41 and elsewhere in the proceedings of  this Conference; has long-beèn respected in Cyprus  as in the other territories-for which the United King-  dom is renponsible. We deny that Cyprus is one of  the territories to which resolution 7. 81 applies,  except in go far as we have also made reference to  “the principles in resolution 1, 31 which I quoted.  earlier in my remarks; :Of course we recognize the  very strong éultural ties with Greece of a high pro-  portion of the Cypriot people, and for this réason  Greek language aecondary schools in the island have  precisely the same curricula as the Gymnasia in -  Greece itaelf, The textbooks used in‘these achools  are the same as those prescribed by the Greek  Ministry of Education, the methods of. teaching, : 80  far as I am aware, are the same, the rules and -  regulations are the same, and indeed the system of  exarninations is the same. : Many of the staff are --  Greek nationals and many more are Greek-speaking  Cypriots who acquired their teaching qualifications  in Athens. The preservation of the:Hellenic quality -  of these schools would; I believe, have been effectively  assured had the Greek Gypriot representatives. on the  Advisory Committee on Greek Cypriot Education not  withdrawn from {hat Committee three months ago,  and refused the offer of a separate section of the  Education Department of Cyprus which would have  become fully responsible for all Greek Cypriot -  education in the island. I can also assure this Con-  _ ference that there is absolutely no intention on the  part of Britain of any de-Hellenizatioh of Cyprus.  We in Britain, as 1 remarked on 10 November have  no desire to promote a world supra-national culture.  Indeed, 1 think that anyone who is at all aware of the  cultural history of Britain and our relations with  many other countries, and the Interest taken by
247  Xx  countless generations of Englishmen in the Hellenic  civilization, could not for à moment imagine that -  theré would ever be any intention, in Britain of all -  countries, of pursuing a policy of de-Hellenization  anywhere. i
10,7: -In the view of Her Majesty's Government, i  the Greek Cypriots accepted the possibilities, which  are open to them; to take full control of Greek: =.  language schools in the island through Greek Cypriot  control in the Ministry of Education, then we believe  that any possible difficulties now experienced in that  island in giving full ‘expression { to‘résolution 7. 81,  adopted at New Delh{ in 1956, .would be removed, :  Mr, President; it is in that spirit ‘that we support :  the resulution | moved by the representative of Greece,  May lend oni & personal word - it is tot many months  since I had the pleäsurs myself of welcoming, at the  British Ministry of Education, a number of teachers  from Cyprus of both the Greek and thé Turkish com-  munities, I was very pleased to welcome them and
1 would be very pleased indeed to welcome further  teachers from Cyprus at any time in the future,
11,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): -  If no other delegate wishes to speak, we shall  proceed to vote on document 10 C/DR. 38.  (A vote was taken by a show of hands.) -
11,2 Document 10 C/DR. 38 is approved by 56 votes  in favour and none against, with one abstention,  ADMISSION OF THE STATE OF SINGAPORE AS ASSOCIATE MEMBER
11.3 -We shall now conaidèr item 4,3 0f the agenda.  The relevant document is 10 C/DR, 68. I call upon  the delegate of the United Kingdom.
12,1 Sir Edward BOYLE (United Kingdom):  Mr. President, I will not detwin the Conference  more than two or threé minutes on tbis itèm, which  is a technical one. At the eighth séssion of the  General Conference, in Montevideo in 1054, - the  United Kingdom presentéd for associate membership  of Unesco two single territories, the Gold Coast and  Sierra Leone, and two groups of territories for  group assoolate membership.. One of the ¢ ‘groups was  five West Indian islands, as the British Caribbean  Group Associate Member, and the ‘other group was  five territories of South Eest Asla, as what was  called the Mplaya- British Borneo Grotip Associate .  Member, As the members of this Conferénce 1 am  sure are well aware, it is the policy of the Govern-  ment of the United Kingdom to bring all the territories  under our administration as rapidly as péssible to full  self-government, and to independence within the  Commonwealth if they so choose, Siñce the'Monte-  video Conference the Gold Coast has become a  sovereign State within the Commonwealth and, ‘under  its new name of Ghana, is riow a full Member of this  Organization, The West Indian Islands have formed  a federation which is not fully sovereign, but which  has already been received into Associate Membership  at this session of the General Confereñce, On the  other side of the world, the Malaya- British Borneo  Group Associate Member has already ‘changed its  composition because of the advance to full sovereignty   Xix PLENARY  within’ thé Commonwealth, of the Federation of Malaya,  whose delegation” wè have welcomed here as full  Members of this Conference,” A further. change will.  become desitable in April.of next year, when ‘ :  Singapore acquires a new status and will wish to be-  come an Associate Membér of Unesco in its own right,  As this privilege of becoming an Assoclate Member :  in {ts own ight ‘can be éonferred only by the General  Confe rérice, :we have therefore asked you to inscribe  thia iter on your agenda, Dr
12,2 ‘What wé are asking the Contererice to: de is  to recognize the chinge that has already taken place  in tho composition of the ‘Mälaya-British Borneo .  Group Associate Member, and to meet thé desire of  Singapore for associate membership before the next  session of the General Conference, in April next year,  The simplest way of achieving both thése ends is to  accept the: withdrawal of the Malaya- British Borneo  Group és a Whole; ‘in aécordance with Artiale II,  paragraph 6,. of thé Constitution, the withdrawal will  not'take effect until 31 December 1969, Thereafter,  if our resolution 18 adopt by this Conference, the  State of Singapore will assume the rights and obliga-  tions at present pertaining to the Grotp,
12,3 Mr, President, on behalf of the British  Government and also on behalf of the Government  and people of Singapore, I warmly advise the Confer-  ence to adopt this resolution,
13,1 The PRLSIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish}:  I thank the delegate of the United Kingdom, Does  anyone wish to support this” proposal? ‘It is  supported by Belgiwn, I think we all agree with it,  That belrig 80,” the State of Singapore is unanimously  admitted as an Associate Member of Unesco as of
31 December 1959, from which date the State of  Singapore shall alone exercise the rights and assume  the obligations hitherto pertaining to the Malaya-  British Borneo Group.  REDUCTION CF THE NUMBER, SI7E AND COST OF WORKING PAP ERS  FOR THE GENERAL CONFERENCE AND THE EXECUTIVE BOARD
13,2 : We ‘shall now’ 0 a on to the discussion of .  document 10 É/C9 and Annex. In this draft resolu-  tion presented by the Géneral Committee of the.  Conference, it is proposed that the sum of $1;146,000,  estimated as the expenditure entailed by the produc-  tion of documents for the Géneral Conference and the  Executive Board, should be regarded as an upper  limit which ought not to be exceeded.
13,3 I call upon the Chairman of the Administrative  Commission, who will present the draft resolution,
14,1 ‘Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French): :  Mr, President, Aadles aid gentlemen, on behalf -  of the committeé set-up by the General Committee of  the Conferèncé to study the problem with which the  ‘daft resolution now before you is concerned  (docuimént 10 G/68); I will explain, briefly, the  purpose of the resolution,
14.2’ ‘At this session of the Conference, several  delegations have urged the need for reducing the  .
248     MEETINGS  cost of the docuinesits prépared for the General *  Conference, > The Administrative Commission has"  ‘glvén its attention to certain aspects of the problem -  in response to the suggestions made by the Executive  Board, it has proposed somé substantial: reductions,  which you will be asked to cérisider when the Com- -  mission presents ita report, The Executive Board, :  for its part; has proposéd à drastié reduction in the  papers {or its own work, ‘But all these reductions -  are still not sufficient to ôffset the recent increase  in the very large. sims which the Organization spends  on the work of the Executive Board and the General  Conference, Tei
14, 3'- You will havé seen, San document 10 c/69 .  Annex, the sims budgeted for the various do¢uments  and publications’ services, «It was with the object of  reducing these costs as far ad possible that the draft  resolution which you now have before you was .  presented by the French delégation,-- The General  Committee of the Conference set üp a committee to -  consider and draft a Fesolution on the subject; and  it 1s this draft resolution, submitted to and approved  by the General Committee of the Conference, which
1 have the honour to present for your approval, The  text of the draft resolution, incorporating certain  minor amendments, is as follows:
14,4 "The General Conference, ® .  Noting with coricern that the cost of documents for  the Executive Board and thé General Conference is  increasing every year - number and volunie of  documents, number of copies produced, coat oftrans-  lation - the latter amounting to a total of $32 per page,  Considering that the total coast of these documents  should be reduced still further than has been done as  a result of the decislons already reached by the  Executive Board and the General Conference, .  Noting with satisfaction that the Secretariat has, -  for the first time, been ablé to submit in the Annex to  the present document a realistic’ estimate of the -  expenditure entailed by the production of documents  for the General Conference and the Executive Board,  Decides that this sum of $1;146,000, estimated for
1959-1960, should be regarded as an upper limit  which ought not to be exceeded,  Requests the Exeéutive Board to make a careful  re-examination of thid' question with the aim of still  further reducing the amount, -  Decides that any further saving which may be:  effected through a reduction inthe dotuments produced  for the Executive Board and thé General Conference  shall be used to finance expenditure on programme  activities, including the publications mentioned in  Part II (Programme Opérations and Serviées),<  Recommends that the Exécutive Board and the  Director-General consider the following suggestions,  with a view to réducing the nümber and volume of  documents ‘as well as the number of coples issued:  (a) Working papers for the General Conférence and  the Executive Board sHould, so far as possible, be sub-  mitted indummary form and {ncérporated inthe Divector-  General's reports on the aétivitied of the Organization;  (b) It would be desiräble for the Director-General,  as suggested in the Report of the:Management Survey  Committee, to instruct a member of his Office to  study all possible procedures for the simplification  and rationallzation of reports and to control all  documents before they are published,"   PLENARY
14,5 -. The adoption of this resolution should, we  think, ‘make it possible substantially to reduce the  amount spent on documents for the Executive Board  and the General Conference;:-' , -
14,6 You'will recall that, in the proposed budget  now before us - which was prepared in the light of a  situation prior {0 the present one, on the bésis of  statistics for 1955 and 1956, at a time when the:  Executive Board was meeting less frequently than it  has eirice done; the budget estimates are over  $220,000 short of the amount that would actually be:  needed if the production of documents and publications  were to continue on the same liries as hitherto, This  explains why thé’ reductions proposed by the Executive  Board on the one hand and the Administrative Commis-  sion on the other are still riot sufficient to make up  ‘the deficit of $220,000 with which we should have  been faced if the former documents and publications  system had been maintained,
14,7 - What wé are asking you to do, therefore, is  to eliminate this deficit and to try to "find a way of  making still furtlier savings, which could be used to  finance programme activities,  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Chairman of the Administrative Com-  mission for presenting the draft resolution and I call  upon the delegate of the Philippines.
16,1 Mr, BOCOBO (Philippines) (Translation from  the Spanish):  The Philippine delegation approves the determina-  tion to economize, ‘There is a Philippine proverb  which says: "A apendthrift soon looks foolish’, One  of the items of the budget on which savings should be  effected is that relating to documents: as is proposed  in this resolution, there should be a reduction in their  number, size and cost,
16,2 The International Labour Organisation has  pursued a similar policy for some time past. At the  recent meeting of the Governing Body of that organiza-  tion, which I attended as government representative:  of my country, the rulé¢ was applied prey severely.  For instance, it was decided that no more summaries  should be published of the speeches made in meetings  of the committees of the Governing Body,
16,3 At international conferences, most of the  delegates are afraid of being overwhelmed by thé  flood of documents, Many delegates have neither the  time nor the desire to read solfdly through so many  papérs; many of them might perhaps be able to think  more clearly if they were not struggling to find their  way through this maze of words,
16,4 Like autumn leaves, these documents ook  very finé on thé shady tree called the "Agenda"; but  they soon flutter down and come to rest’ in the hoapi-  table waste-paper basket.
16,5 Mr, President, we should get more done if  there were fewer words wasted, both written and  spoken, ''Words pay no debts", as Shakespeare said,  and the Member States of our great Organization  Jointly owe to mankind an enormous debt of well-  being and social justice.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of
17, -  Thank you very much,  ‘Mexico,  MEETINGS
18,1 - Mr, CABRERA (Mexico) (Trasislation from :  the Spanish}: . . -  Mr, President, fellow’ delegates, the ‘delegation of  Mexico wishes to' congratulate both the sponsors of  this resolution and the Administrative Commission,  for adopting it; In all international organizations the  phenéménan : may be obseryed of the excessive proli-  feration of documents, some of them unnecessary and  Métle read, and this entails unduly high expenditure  which cannot well be justified, EI
18,2: Since this phériomenon' occurs in au intér-  national organizations, thé Economic and Soctal  Council has, . at various conferences, recommended  all United Natioris bôdies to reduce the number of  publications and to take steps to prevent the proli-  feration of documents mentioned by the representa-  tive of the Philippines, *- : '
18,3 We agreé hat it would be well to ‘make a.  careful investigation of the possibility of producing  papers in summary form,’ do that we may be kept well  informed but without excessive effort and without  having to sift out ‘4’'mass of documents and decide  which are'important and ‘which are not, In principle,  my delegation is therefore in favour of this proposal;  it would like to see the documents of purely ephemeral  interest singled. cut as the most suitable subjects for  the application of thé policy of reduction,
18,4 It should be’ remembered that one of Unesco's  tasks is to publish works of lasting importance, both  in the original and in translation; we hope that this  category of works will not be affected by the economy  drive, since it is they that give Unesco international  prestige in the world of culture, We bolleve that the  purpose of this resolution is to reduce the number of  documents that are not strictly necessary and to  establish eriteria for a rigorous selection of those  warranting publication, CU
18.5 Similar decisions have beén taken in all inter-  national organizations, in pursuance of the recommend-  atton of the’ Économie and Social Coungil, ‘ It therefore  seems to me that, throughout’ the United Nations  family, à definite policy should be adopted to protect  delegates from the flood of papers raferred to by the  Philippine delegate, some of which, ‘as I said ‘earlier,  are unnecessary, We should be very pleased if the  commissions and committees of Unesco could  establish some such system of priorities and classi-  fication, without sacrificing publications of lasting  valué which redound to the credit of the Organization  and which it behoves the latter to publish in the  interests of the dissemination of culture and the  improvement of the general standard of culture,  The PRESIDENT (Trauslation from the Spanish):  Thank you, I call upon the delegate of the Dominl-  can Republic,
20, - Mr, PEIGNAND CESTERO (Dominican  Repiblic) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr, President, fellow delegates, 1'wish to make a  proposal which, since ft’ speaks for itself, I shall not  enlarge on here, trust that this assembly will feel able  to accept ft unanimously. Thé proposal ie that there  be added, at the ‘end of document 10 GÆ9, the following  sentence! "In applying the foregoing recommeridations  the present principle of equality of the working  languages of the Organization shall ba respected".   XIX PLENARY MEETINGS
21, . The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spantah):
1 call ppon the delegate of El Salvador. - L.  re { QT guf i ARIS
22:1 Mn BARON ‘cAsTRO ® Salvador) (Transte-  tion from- the Spaniah)s io.  - Mr, President, ‘1 have nothirig to ‘add. do. “tint has  been said by thé Chairman of the ‘Administrative Com-  mission, Mr, Baugniet, and by the represéntatives  of thé Philippinés,' Mexico and the Dominican a.  Republic, in py egird to the substance of this question,  with which I am in absolute agreement, “1 would like,  therefore, to state my approval of the draft resolution  presented by the General Committee of the Conference,  There ls; however; one, additional point I wish to  make, -
22.2 The Executive Boëfd, ‘both in ite Adriintatra-  tive Commission and in its plenary meetings, has  already - devoted ‘close attention to this problem, and  tried to work out practicable solutions, With regard  to the records of its own subsidiary organs, the .  Board has decided that they shall in future not be  prepared, but merely kept on à tape. recording. The  Board has also decided that the minutes of its plenary  meetings shall continue to be published in the four  working languages, but without a separate version  being produced for each language, 50 as to reduce  the cost.
22,3 . In the proposal now before us, however, the  Executive Board is asked to make a re-examination  of the question with the aim of still further reducing  this sum - that ie, the sum of $1,160,000, I fully  approve of what the Board 18 being asked to do,  namely to go into this matter again; but I would like  to point out, MF, President, that this {s roughly the  same as, the recommendation contained in draft  resolution No, 7 of the Administrative Commission,  which is in duè course to be considered by the  General Conference and which’ likewise requests the  _Executiye; Board {0 ¢onsider afresh the problem of  the reduction of the number and volume of adminis-  trative documents for 1959-1960, for the purpose of  reducing to a minimurn the expenditure provided for  in document 10 0/5 Rey, + …
22.4 _ Hence; the proposal now ‘before, the General  Conference implies, . in some degree, prejudgement  of the case that we shall have to consider when .  resolution No, 7. of the Administrative Commission  comes up for discusélon:- 1 mention this merely to  indicate that adoption of this resolution would be tan-  tarmount to ‘anticipation 6f our decision on the report  of the Administrative Commission. … ....
22,6 This is the point fo which 1 wished to. draw.  the Conference's attention, On the other hand, the  Dominican representative's proposal, that the four  working languages be treated on an equal footing in  all questions of documentation, is, I consider,  absolutely in line with the decisions taken by the  Executive Board and the Administrative Commission,
23, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 call upon the Chairman of the Administrative  Commission, who wishes to explain certain points.
24, Mr. ‘BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French): -,.. -  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Ihave |
250     listened very caretilly 16 the remarks Mr, Baron .: :  Castro has just nade on behalf of his delegation and -:  it secuis to ‘me that thé draft resolution you are now  considering ia more ‘general than the ofie which is to -  be submitted to you at thé same time as the Adminis-  trative Commission's réport, ~The resolution to be -  presented by the Commission is already mentioned  in document 10 C/69 Annex, which givés the amounts  of the reductions which would be éffected if the more  specific proposals made by the Administrative Com-  mission were âdopted; - but I see no reagon why these  specifié proposals - which you will, I presume,  adopt - should prevent you from making a general  study, as is suggested in the proposal now before you,  of this question. which is troubling many delegations,
25,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish);  The Chairman of the Administrative Commission  has given some explanations on draft resolution’. ..
10 C/69 which should now be amended to read as . ..  follows: in paragraph 4, instead of: "Decides that -  this surh of $1,146,000 ,,.," read: "$1,160, 000",  In paragraph 5, instead of: "Requests the Executive  Board to make a careful re-examination,,," etc, ,  read: "Requests the Executive Board and the Director-  General to make a careful re-examination, ,." ete,
25.2 Lastly,” we have a proposal from the Dominican  Republic for the addition of a sixth paragraph, to read  as follows: "In applying the foregoing recommenda-  tions the present principle of equality of the working :  languages of the Organization shall be respected".
25,3 HU there is no objection, we shall now vote on  this draft resolution,  (A vote was then taken by a show of hands, )
25,4 Draft resolution contained in document 10 C/69  Annex is approved unanimously.  REPORT OF THE REPORTS COMMITTE
26.5 We shall now go on to item 11 of the agenda  (documents 10 C/9,.10 C/9 Rev, , Parta I, I and  Corrigendum), I call upon the Chairman of the  Reports Committee,
26,1 Mr TUNCEL (Turkey), Chairman of. the  Reports Committee (Translation from the French): .  Mr. . President, in accordance with a decision  taken by the General Conference at its ninth session,’  the Reports Committee, of which I have the honour  to be Chairman, met several days before the opening  of the present session, namely from Monday, 27  October onwards, . oo
26,2 Of the 19 Member States appointed by. the -  General Conference to take part in the work of this  Committee, 14 were represented from the firat--  meeting: Australia, France, Israel, Italy, Japan, :  Laos, Liberia, Philippines, : Rumantia,. Switzerland, :  Turkey, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United  Kingdom, United States’ of America, The represent.  atives of these States were joined, at subsequent  meetings, by represeniatives of Colombia, Haiti,  India, Lebanon aid Uruguay,
26,3 The Committee was pleased to note that all  the Member States appointed by the General Confer-  ence had in fact taken part in its work,
26.4 The Committee began by appointing its officers.   =  , 26,9  ‘ning of 1956. .  PLENARY-
1 had the honour Of, being'elécted Chairman, Mr, …  Weeden,’ legate of Australas, and Mr, Muto, dele-  gate Japan, weje Riected Viée-Chairmen.. Mrs,  Paronetto Valier; delegate of Italy, was lected -  Rapporteur, ”, Mr, Malcolm S, Adigeshiah, Assistant  Director-Gene rai, and Mr, Chevalier, Deputy Chief  of the Bureau va Relations with Member States,  represented. the Director-General at the meetings of  Pn Comptes: | in as 6 study ftoma 7, 9, 10 h © ee Wa ma ,
11,15. 8,1 and 15.8,2 of Tia ns i { ihe General  Conference, In thé ent of Reports of thé  re meute del am of obs akon States, i} considered  the measures that had en in {mplementation  of Unesco g, a w 956 1957 pe) the begin-  The, Commilfee al 80 examined the  assessment of the work accomplished by Unesco .  during the period w er review, prepared by the ,  Director- ‘General on ti the bpsis of his own reports  and those of Member States,
26.6 Ihave the frais to submit for. approval by.  the General Conference thé report of the Committee,  contained in document 10 C/9 Rev. , Parts I and II,  and 10 C/9 Rev, , Part I, Corrigeñdum L
26.7 The first part of this report (paragraphe 12-
20) deals with the examination of the Director-  General's reports on the aétivities of the Organiza-  tion, Since it was physically impossible to examine  all these reports in detail, the Committee decided to  concentrate on three projects selected as typical  examples of the possibilities and limitations inherent  in the execution of the programme, These projects .  were as, follows: the role of sport {n ‘education; co-  operation ‘with international sclentitiè organizations;  Major Project on Mutual Appreciation of Eastern  and Western Cultural Value B.
26, 8  si  “The second part of our port (piregraphe  CRS ROY  a report © within the resorbed time-limit and had  thus neglecied : an important ‘obligation. laid down in  the Const{tutio on, ; Procecding in the same way as |  when studying” the, reports ‘prepared by the Director-  General, the, Committee decided to confine its .  attention, when studying Member States! reports, to  a few selected ‘projects; .theag : were: pre- schooland  school education; . promotion of science: social  sciences and prob lems of human rights and minori-  ties; cufture ‘and international understanding; L  improvement’ of ‘the, means and techniques of commu-  nication; “and ‘promotion of the exchange ‘of pgysons  In the third rip! of the report (paragraphs
36-41) are. ‘set, forth the results of the Committee's  discussion. of the ‘special reports submitted by  Member States on ‘action taken by them upon the  recommendations adopted by the General Conference  "at {ta ninth session,
26.10 The results of ihe Committee's examination.  of the assessment of the work accomplished by :  Unesco in 1956 and 1957 are given in the fourth part  of the report now before you ‘(paragraphs 42-55),  Here again, the Commilte2 confined its attention to
251  MEETINGS xx  certain selected subjects, namely, Major Projects;  Prôgranmne of Technical Assistance and Programme  of Participation in Member States" Activities; . Anter-.  national conferences; co-operation with the United  Nations Agencles, . :..;. hr bn ii LE à.
26, 11. .The fifth part of t he’ ‘Committee's report .  (paragraphe 56-63) contains comments on the effeci-  iveness of the means of action eployed. by the  Organization and by Member States, and op the. ways  of developing the participation of Member | Caton in  the preparation and execution of Unesso's programme.
26,12. The sixth part of the’ report now before you  (paragraphs 64-72) is concerned with the form and  content of and period covered by the reports to be  presented to the eleventh sesplon of the General  Conference, -
26,13 . The seventh part of the ‘report (paragraphs
73 and 74) contains | ‘the Commitiee's recommendations  regarding the printing of] Member States! reports;  these recommendations are, ‘designed to cut down .  translation and printing costs.
26,14 Under its terms of reference, one of the.  duties of the Committee, was to select, subjects: te,  receive special, attentigi nat the eleventh. ‘session : ot  the General Conférencé, This matler is dealt with  in the eighth part of the report. (paragraphs 15 to TU,
26,15 Lastly, paragraphs 78 and 79, forming the  ninth and final part of the report, “contain recommen-  _ dations regarding the terms of reference and member-  ship of the Reports Committee for the eleventh seasion  of the General Conference, NE
26,16 _ 1 ghould, I think, Mr, President, ‘draw the  attention of the General Conterence to the five draft  regolutions submitted in the. report. + They are the  logical outcome, of the Committee's deliberations.
26, 17 The | draft resolution in paragraph 41 contains  the Committee's recommendations regarding the  special reports submitted by, Member States on action  taken by thèm upon the, retommendations. adopted by
26,18, The second resolution, in ‘paragraph 55 of  the report, concerns the eppraisal of Unesco's work  in 1956 and 1957,  .,
26,19. In paragraph 72 of the report | there Is a hire  resolution, dealing with the form, content ¢ of and :  period covered by the reports to, “be presented | to. the  eleventh session : of the. ‘denoral Conference It ja  interesting to note that, under the terms of this ….  resolution, it, is proposed, ê for the ‘tirat time, to ask  the Director-General to prepare a parallel analytical  study of the reports of Member States and of his own  reports for 1958 and 1869,
26. 20 The subjects to. réceive ‘special attention. at  the eleventh session of the General Conference are  graph 77 of the report, ,
26, 21 Lastly, the. Committee! a proposals regarding  the terms of reference and. membership of the |:  Reports Committee for the move: session of the  General Conference are given in the. fitth draft reso-  lution, in paragraph. 79 of the document. …,
26,22 1 should like io say, Mr. President, that I 1 hope  these five draft resolutions, representing, the, result  of the work of the Reports Comraittee. for,the tenth  session of the General Conference, ‘will receive the .  Conference's approval, The Committee's discussions,  spread over thirteen meetings, were always imbued   XIX PLÉNARY  witha spit of frank and éonstrictive co-operation  and barked ) the’ Eonéern of the members’ soru-  pülèusly 1% fulfil thé inlssion’ entrusted to ther by  thé Général 'Confeénce,: Ses
26,23- 1 think I nay say that the Cormmitted's work  was crowned with 7 succesd; and I “should ike to take _  this’ ‘oppôrtunity of thinking all ‘the’ members of the  Reports, Comittee, : Spécial thanks | are dué to our ©  Rapportéuf, Mrs, ‘Péronetto Valles, for the 1ntel-  ligénce ind "devotion with Which she’ performed hér  : difficult {ask of summing up the Committee's ‘dia-  cussions and préparing the very comprehensive and  critical réport. which you now have before you,
21,  The Conference would, I am sure, wish me to  thank the Chairman of fe Reports Committee and  congratulate him on this excellent report summing  up his Committee's work, I now call upon the  delegate of the Dominican Republic,
28,1 ° Mr.‘ ‘PEIGNAND. CESTERO (Domintéan  Republic) (Translation from’ the Spanish):  Mr, President; fellow delegates , in connexion  with thé report ‘which has just been read out, 1 have  some important statéments to make, in line with the  spirit of that report,
28,2 1 sâld in this assembly; a few days'ago, that  the Dominitan Republic had éndorsed Unesco's  Constitution,’ and was carrying out its provisions to  the full through social and educational projects  benefiting all classes of society without preference  or discrimination, )
28.3 Ever since’ théir inception, Uñelcotà Major  Projects have been steadily carried into effect in our  country, ‘We have, ‘in the Domintéari Rcpublic, ‘  constantly expanding -s¢themes for the extension of  primary éducation; the fmpiovement of teacher  training; “thé eradication o illiteracy: the reclama-  tion of arid land by the construction of hundreds of  miles ot “Tre# fon canals, thanks to which thousands  of acres b' to léylñg ‘waste for lack of water have  now been ..…ght under cultivation; and, jastly, the  forging of élèser links between Orient and Occident  through a Vast immigration programme, whereby  thousands of families - mainly Japaness and Jews -  have been brought’ over from the Far and Middle East  and are how pebcefully engaged’ in farming,
28, 4 My purpose In speaking’ again today before  this august assémbly - whose‘ mission it is to promul-  gate the eternal principles of world peace - is to  bring you another encouraging’ piecè dt news, like-  wise bearing closely on'Unésco's world-wide  ob jectives’ in the fields of education, science and’  ture,
28,5 All the activities undertaken by the Member  States of Uneséo should be designed to advarice.  fellowship and uñderétandini between’ peoples,  through the spread of knowledge and appreéiation of  all the Manifold spiritual; ethical, scientific, cultural,  economic and 7 above all - sôcial ‘values ‘which make  of man à vèssel of grace, ‘created in the image où  God and ‘entrusted with the divine mission of bringing
16 the world that peace which is sought by all men of  ‘good will, ° -
28,6 In purbüance of the lofty aims of Unesco, and  in addition to the programmes already under way, the  The PRESIDENT (Traiiatation from’ the Spanish):  MEETINGS
252  Dominféan Gove rime Fine ses to ops à series  of competitions à émotiget Fehitects, © lown planners  and artists from différent “csantpiés fies; ‘Who pill | be  invited fo submit plas aiid projeèts for purposes of  the coñatruétion‘of balidinga; sqares and ‘moniments  vo 9 séiquiate the’ firat es of thé, restoration of  this hiatoric event, the programiné will cost 100  million pesos’ and will begin to be’ pat into effect in
28,7 In this way, erginedtdy {oii planners, =  architects | end artists, ‘from th E ¥dst and the west,  from the North and the South, Wil have ‘an pint  of meeting in féténdiy ‘competition’ to ‘give concrete  expression {o their artistic dnd’ technical concepts in  my country, ‘in that land ‘which Columbus loÿéd above  all others, ‘he ‘ééntre and heart of America,” ‘from  whence the spirit, the language: and thé’ Christian  faith of Léon and Castile spread to the furthest  boundatiés of the continent of hope, the fnexhaustible  treasury of the knightly heritage of our Spanish  cultural tradition, -
28,8 At'the ‘éüggestiôn of His Excellency Generalis-  simo Rafael Leonidas Tryjilte’ Molina, the benefactor  and founder of our new state ,,thé Dominican Govern-  ment propose to usé some of the buildings’ erected  under the above- mentioned plan to house lûter-  American’ eultural and scientific {ristitutlons. The  plan also inéludes the eréction of a large blllding,  with all the requisite’ facilities, which the Dominican  Governmerit proposes io friake available to Unesco for  housing a regional frisiitution which might be’  sponsored by the Organization - such, for instance,  as the Institute of Tropical Medicine, ‘a large training  college for tiaining teachers for the West indies and  Central América, a training centre for educationists  or an organization for the direction and supervision  of the literacy campaign in this part of the American  continent.
28,8 In addition, the Dominican Government  promises tô afford the’ ‘céntré oF ‘érganizétion in  question the fullest financial’ pupa did to provide  all the technical and adminfatral ve facilltiés  necessary to the accomplishment of its ‘work.
28,10 We sincerely hope’ {hat Unégco will soon  announce the acceptance of this offer, ‘and state thn  proposed ûse to, be mede of the’ large ‘biiflding which  the Dominican Government is offictaily presenting  at this historic’ tenth ‘session of the General Confer-  ence, regarding it less from the ‘point of view, of its  material valué’ than aga ‘contribution to the cause of  universal péace and brotherhood which my Govern-  ment and my dountey have very. much at heart,  advantage will be taken, “Does any other delegate  wish to speak on this item of thé agenda? I propose,  then, that wé vote on the document’ before us
(10 c/o Rev, ), and that éach of the resolutions con-  tairied in the document be votéd on separately.
29.2 ‘ “Firat, we havé the Fegolutions contained in  paragraphs 41, 55 and 72 of document 10 C/9 Rev.   PLENARY  - Part I, -We shall vote first on the resolution in  paragraph 43,  (The vote was taken by & show of hands. )
20,3 The resolution is approved unanimously,
29,4 We shall now voté on the resolution in para-  graph 55,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands, )
20,6 We shall now vote on the resolution in para-  graph 72,  (The vote was taken by a ‘show of hands, )
20,7 Likewise approved unanimously.
29,8 We shall now take the second part of document  MEETINGS
10 ¢/9-Rév,, with the resolutions. contained in para-  graphs 77 ahd 79, We’ shall vote first on the resolu-  tion on paragraph 17, . -  (The vote was taken by a show of hands, )
29,9. Approved unanimously,
29,10 We shall now vote on the resolution in para-  graph 79, . -  (The vote was taken by a show of hands, )
29,11 Likewise approved unanimoiisly,
29,12 The whole of the Report of the Reports  Committee is thus approved,  The meeting rose at 12,45 p,m,