10 November 1958, at 9, 15 p. m.  President: Sir Edward BOYLE (United Kingdom)  CONTENTS -  General discussion of the Director- General's Reports and  of the Proposed Programme and Budget for 1959-1960  (continued): Speeches by the delegates of Poland, Libya,  Viet-Nam, Liberia, Iran, Honduras, Nigeria and Peru  GENERAL DISCUS AON OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL'S  REPORTS AND O!/ THE PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND  BUDGET FOR 19 6-190 (continued) '  The PRESIDENT:  I call upon ‘the delegate of Poland, Mr, Wierblowski.
2,1 Mr; [WiERBLOWSKI (Poland) (Translation  from ihe French):  Mr. President, “adlels and gentlemen, À would  like to begin by thanking the French authoritles for  their hos epitality and the possibility they have afforded  us to hold our Conference in Paris, this city with ah  ancient tradition of culture, progress, humanism and  the cult ‘of béauty and the arts, Let us hope that this  atmosphere will help us to draw closer to the main  objectives of our Organization, . -
2,2 Within the great Unitéd Nations family, Unesco  has its own special rôle to play in the field of educa-  tion, science and culture, and'in the light’ of this.  rôle it works but ite own methods for fulfilling its  tasks, In doing so, it must always bear in mind the  main purpoéé for which all United Nations bodies  were established - namely, to develop international  co-operation and to contribute to the maintenance of  peace and security, fn a world full of contradictions  and conflicting interests,
2.3 ° Member States can and should help to attain  - Unesco's objectives, firstly through their foreign  policy and their activities on the international level,  - and secondly by participating iñ the work of inter-  national organizations ‘and; in the matter of education,  science and culture, with Unesco.
2.4 1 would like to'say a few words about the  policy of Poland, the country [represent at this  Conference, and to show how it is modelled both on  the United Nations Charter and on thé aims pro-  claimed in Unesco's Constitution. I do not intend to  go into Polish foreign policy as a whole, which is  based on close.friéndship, mutual assistance arid soli-  darity between the socialist counties, combined with  the broadest possible co-operation with countries of  other political; social and economic systems. Poland's  policy is one of coexistence ‘and co-operation; despite  the obstacles presented by differences ôf ideology.
2,6 We therefore favour disarmament and the pro-  hibition of nuclear weapons; , it is by radical measures  like these, we belleye, that mankind can be assured  of lasting peace, We know by experience that the  road to general disarmament and the prohibition of  nuclear weapons is a very. rough one; and, being  realists, we support all projects which represent an  advance in this direction. , We think that nuclear tests  should be stopped and, as we are coticerned’ about the  life and health of both fuiure and present génerations,  we strongly support the Soviet proposals on this subject,
2,6 Last year, we made a proposal with regard to  a region in which we are very closely interested; .our  plan involved the establishment of a de-atomized belt  -in the centre of Europe, .covering Poland, Czecho-  slovakia, the German Democratic Republic and the  Federal Republic of Germany.
2,7 This plan was favourably received in widely  different circles in ‘many countries, In the course of  its discussion, various comments and reservations  were made. Many governments expressed interest  in it, We then endeavoured to amend our proposals  with a view to meeting some of the objections voiced  when it was discussed, Last February, in answer to  criticisms, we defined the principles governing the  control measures for enforcement of the commitments  imposed by the plan. We have now gone still further,  taking into account the criticisms and recommenda-  tions made by certain States. te,
2.8 I do not intend to outline the new ‘proposals  contained in the statement of the Polish Minister for  Foreign Affairs, Mr, Rapacki; you will certainly  have been ably to read them in the papers, 1 shall  simply say that the new version of the plan provides  for two stages, At the firat stage, the development  of nuclear weapons would be halted at the point at  present reached in the territory of the four States;  at the second, atomic disarmament would proceed  together with the reduction of. conventional weapons,  to a level to be decided after discussion, There  would be appropriate control machinery at both stages.
2,9 We are aware that, although important amend-  ments have been made to our project, it will continue  to be opposed - particularly by those bent on develop-  ing nuclear weapons, on which their policies are   PLENARY MEETINGS X11  based, We are nevertheless convinced that our  proposel will be studied with great interest, not only  among wide sections of the public in varfous countries,  but amongst ‘Goverûments and politicians as well, It  is our firm hellef thai nicasures such as this can  help to create ‘an international atmosphère conducive  to a reduction in every type of armament,
2,10 I would like to add that our plan ls not directed  against enyoné; it is,in particular, directed neither  against Germany nor 'againat German unification on a  democratic footing. On the contrary, by helping to  reduce tension in Europe, It represents a first step  towards German unification, creating an atmosphere  favourable to the establishment of a unified, peaceful  end democratic Germany, ’
2,11 To conclude this part of my speech, 1 would  stress that political projects such as this, . organized  by States in the cause of peace and the lessening of  tension, create a situation, a''biosphere” . as it were,  conducive to the accomplishment of Uneaco's mission,
2,12 Mr ‘President, during the discussions which  have taken place in Unesco, speakers have often  raised the extremely important question of the Organ-  ization's universality, There are;>I think, {wo aspects  to it.-: The first is the problem < ‘of bringing as many  countries as possible to take part in our Organiza-.  tion's work, The Polish delegation has on many-  occasions expressed its indignation at ‘the systemalic  discrimination exercised against the People's Repub-  lic of China: the Chinesé people are not represented -  in Unesco, their place being accupled by a band of °  usurpers installed, under the protection of foreign  arms, on an {sland {1legally torn away from Chinese  territory, This kind of discrimination is applied to  other States as well,  .
2,13 It must bé admitted that ho organization such  as Unesco is needed in oïdér that thère may be  collaboratiori between the United States of America  and the United ‘Kingdom or France, or between the  countries of Latin America; though it would certainly  be useful, but not indispensable, for arranging  colleboration between countries with similar economic  and political systems. It is however indispensable  for the development of co-operaiion,; in the educa-  tional, scientific and cultural fields; between  countries whose traditions, political systems and  economic and cultural conditions differ,
2,14 The second éspect of universality is the  problem of bringing international organizations of all  political; social and’ religlous complexions to take  part in Uriesco's work: -Thé criterion here is that  the principles of these organizations should bé in  line with the aims set forth in Unesco's Constitution.  But we find that there’ 18 prejudice against a number  of organizations whose co- operation could be ex-  tremely valuable to Unesco and with which the Secre-  tarlat has, inde éd, for ‘many years maintained  relations for practièal purposes. We have protested,  and shall continue to do bo, against the refusal to  grant consultativé status to such organizations as,  for instance, the World Federation of Democratic  Youth, the Intérñational Federation of Democratic  Lawyers, the International Union of Students, the  International Broadcasting Organization, etc. , and  even the refusal to invite these organizations to send  observers to the General Conference,
2.15 Another problem closely bound up with these
187     two aspects of universality is that of the geographical  distribution of posts in the Secretariat, The term  "universal cannot be applied to an organization whose  Secretariat reserves a special, privileged position  for a certain'group of States, to the exclusion of others,  This situation undoubtedly narrows the’ ééope of  Unesco's activities by preventing it from exercising  any real influence in many parts of the world,
2,16 I now propose, Mr, President, to pass on to  the Director-General'a report on Unesco's activities  in 19567-1968, and to the Proposed Programme and  Budget for. 1959- 1860, We have certain commente  and criticisms which we shall be able to discuss in  groater detail in the Commissions, Committees and  Working Parties; we also have certain express reser-  vations to make regarding, firstly, the increase of  administrative costs at the expense of {hie budget for  implementing the programme and, secondly, an  entrenched bureaucratization which is detrimental to  Unesco's work. Otherwise we regard the proposed  programme, on the whole, ‘Ve a sound working basis,  suitable for the Organization's future development,
2,17 The proposed programme and budget suggests,  very sensibly, a certain conçentration of funds on  selected activities: The centering of effort on priority  areas seems to us reasonable, It is-our view, for  instance, that the East-West Major Project, if .  properly implemented, can make & valuable contribu-  tion to international understanding; dd we in Poland  have, ever since the Project was adopted, done every-  thing in our power to put it into effect, ‘In this con-,  nexion, we have followed up the resolution adopted by  the Conférence of European National Commlissléns  held last year at Dubrovnik, through, the of‘ganization  of a sfieclal week for launching thé Project, | We  think that the week we organized largely’ achieved, in  our case, the object which the European National Com-  missions had in mind, - Thanks to the use of press,  radio and television, and the arranging of various  exhibitions of the art of the Eastern countries, we not  only brought the Project to the notice of Orientaliats,  but succeeded in arousing the interest. of the ‘general  public as well, On these foundations,’ itis probable  that we shall now be able to spread throughout Poland  further knowledge; . both general and specialized, about  the Eastern countries, One fact is clear, and I must  emphasize 1t again: the reain obstacle to carrying  through the Project as a ivhole i8 the absence of the  People's Republic of China, which throws the entire  programme out of balance and also distorts it geogra-  phically.
2,18. With regard to the social sclences, thé Polish  delegation particularly commends the activities  proposed under the programme of studiés on the  “ social implications of induatrialtzation;. as also the  idea of giving priority.to this programme, with the  possibility of turning it, eventually, into a Major  Project. ’
2,19 We are following with interest, but also ina  critical spirit, the policy and development of the pro-  gramme for the natural sciences and education,  together with the relevant Major Projects and the  Technical Assistance contribution to these sections  of the programme,
2,20 It gives us pleasure to welcome the arrival in  Unesco of countries which have only recently attained  their independence; and we consider it is the   Xu PLENARY  Organization's duty to give special help to countries  which have cast off, or are in the process of casting  off, the colonial yoke, It behoves Unesco to give  them every aid in'the fields within its competence.  These countries must be helped, not merely to safe-  guard and develop their ¢ultural heritage, but also to  train the special sta they need in every sphere so as  to be in a position to catch up with the rest of the  world as soon as possible,
2,21 ‘To sum up, ‘many {tems of thé Proposed Pro-  gramme are, in our view, calculated to promote the  attainment of Unesco's objectives, '. It must always,  however, be borne in mind that there exist in ths  world; side by side, countries with different social  and economic systems, and different cultural ’  traditions, International co-operation is the essence  of all action desigried to reduce international tension,  We see all around us a great deal of suspicion and  misunderstanding, a'great many barriers between  the peoples, ‘due to preconceived ideas; but States  have to exist together in the world, despite their  differences, and the only way they can do so'is  through co-operation - which in turn involves learn-  ing to know, appreciate'and respect otheï éountries,  Science and culture are fields fn which this process  is both possible and easy,’ Moreover, science,  culture and thé arts lend themselvés t6 eniulation,  which, far froï being harmful, is beneficial to alk
2,22 On these grounds, the Polish délegation --  attachés the utinost importance to every kind of ex-  change bétween countries’ living under different :  systems. Poland, therefore, after being’ responsible  for proposing the’ resolution on co-operation between  States with different political systems, adopted by  the General Confevérce at its ninth session in New  Delhi, has takén measures to put it into practice.  Thus, on Poland's initiative; an Anglé-Polish:-  seminar was organizéd in 1957 at Bradford, which  enabled social scientists of the two countries to ex-  change views on various'econdmic and social -  problems; the Franco-Pollsh seminar in 1956 like-  wise yielded good results;' and a regional European  seminar on adult education brought together, in .  Warsaw, 40 specialists from 15 countries, Warsaw  was also thé scène, in July 1867; of the meeting of  the International Institute of Philosophy, which déalt  with problems of the relationship bétween thought and  action, and was attended by 47 philosophers from 19  countries, representing various philosophical doc-  trines, as well as by 20 Polich philosophers, Lastly,  a Franco-Polish seminar took place in Warsaw in  September 1958 regarding the study of public opinion;  it concentrated on the techniques of public opinion  research and their ¢ontribution to sociological theories,  and in the course of the proceedings distinguished  professors from France, the United States of America  and Norway worked together with young French and  Polish specialists,
2,23 l'would make a point of éxpressing my satis-  . faction that all these meetings encountered the fullest  measure of welcome and understanding, both from  the countries co-operating with us over them and  from the Unesco Secretariat, which gave us effective  assistance.
2,24 | have dwelt at some length on the resolution  adopted at New Delhi concerning peaceful co-operation,  because I thought {t should be emphasized that its
188     MEETINGS  provisions, apart from being theoretically sound,  have proved perfectly capable of implementation in  practice,
2,25 The Polish 'delegation is Happy in ite conviction  on the grounda of this oxperience - which has alao,  I belleve, led the other participating countries; includ.  ing France, the United Kingdom, Norway and the -  United States of America, to the same conclusion’ ”  that this type of activity is a useful one and should be  pursued, It has thus been proved that - in addition to  major activities in selected areas - bilateral and -  regional activities and meetings have a valuable contri-  bution to make to the promotion of international under-  standing. .
2,26 Mr, President, Unesco is an organization  composed of governmenta, - The examples I have just  quoted demonstrate the importance we attach to the  predominant rôle which Member States have to play  in carrying out the Organization's programme,
2,27 This does not, however, in any way lessen  the responsibility of the Unesco Secretariat in the  effective’ implementation of that programme, The  Organization calinot be regarded merely as the sum  of its Member States. It behoves the Secretariat and -  the organs of Unesco to co-ordinate the interests and  activities of Member States, and to stimulate and  guide them,
2,28 It is olir bellef that, if on both sides these  tasks are properly understood, our Organization will  he abie to go forward on the lines laid down in its  “‘onatitution,
3, ‘The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Poland and I now call on the  delegate of Libya, Mr, Shinnib.
4,1 Mr, SHINNIB (Libya) (Translation from the  French): - ;  Mr, President, Mr, Director- -General,- my dear  colleagues, it 1s'an horour for me to transmit, from  this’ rostrum, the greetings and best wishes of my  country, These greetings go to the eternal human -  values we aré endeavouring to make prevail, for  those values are thé very basis of peace and the well-  being of the. peoples, …: .-
4,2 Libya has doubtless been ever present in the  world's conscience ’sincé the world decided, through  the United Nations, in favour of an independent,  sovereign Libya. But, going beyond mere words, the  United Nations hastened to help this new State, -  providing it with all feasible means of expediting ito  cultural and economic growth, so that it should be  able to work with the other States of the world in the  service of human civilization,
4,3 For this wakeful world conscience and these  sincere ard invaluable efforts 1 wish to express, on:  behalf of Libya, the déep gratitude of ny compatriots,  during this month when they are celebrating in an  outstanding manner the eighth anniversary of the  United Nations resolution that proclaimed their inde-  pendence and freedom.
4,4 Strong in this freedom, Libya has taken up  again ita torch of civilization and progress, ‘ And  strong in this independence, the Libyan people is  making every endeavour to shoulder, with the other  peoples of the world, the responsibilities flowingirom  it - responsibilities to itself and to the whole of humanity   PLENARY MEETINOS
4,5 But in this trémendous taak, Libya is not left  to its own resourcés, The United Nations and the  Specialized Agencies - particularly Unesco - are  effectively helping it and guiding it along the road of  organization and rebirth,  - Anyone visiting Libya now would be astonished  re volume of what has already been achieved, and  so speedily achieved, ‘in the fields of education and  {nstruction, This astonishment would be all the  greater for the recollection that Libya, for four  whole years during the Second World War, was the  theatre of fearful battles which devastuted towns,  largely wrecked the bridges and destroyed nearly  all the roads, - -
4,7 “But then came the miracle of the Ppeople'a will  À people numbering no more than a million and a  quarter reconstructed from the ruins which the war  had spread throtighout the country, and overcame  the anguish left in the hearts of its sons, .
4,8 On the morrow of the’ war, there were barely  more than ‘six thousand school pupils in Libya; today,  they number roughly ônè hundred thousand, The  axplanation of (his change lé very simple; since the  war, Libya has consistently devoted the gieater part  of js budget tn the spreading of culture and education.  - After the war, not a single primary school  certificate ‘class existed in Libya, We aré proud to  say that for three years now we have had a Faculty  of Letters and Educatièn and a Faculty of Econoialcs  and Commerce at Benghazi, and à Faculty of Science  at Tripoli, which are prospering before our eyes;  while hundreds of our students are continuing their  studies in various Eastern aid Western universities,
4,10 But this does not enable us to Overcome all  our difficulties, - These are innumerable, yét we ‘  have to surmount them. : We arc therefore in urgent  need of Unesco's assistance. This Organization has’  spared no effort tô help us, within the limiis of its  resources,’ My Government and people zie ‘deeply  grateful to it. It has helped us to train our teachers,  prepare our educational curricula, establish kinder-  gartens, implement fundamental education projects,  . and develop the Centre for the production of school  textbooks, -
4.11" Unesco has thus ‘proved that it is equal to the  great tasics incumbent on it; Libya therefore confi-  dently looks towards this Organization, whose neip  - 18 80 necéssarÿ td us and upon whose success the  better lifé ‘sought by our people largely depends,
4,12 My Government's chief desiré at prèsent is  - to spread education as widély ae possible, with  special emphasis on fundamental education and the  training of teachers and technicians,
4,13 Despite our small budgetary resources, we  havé decreed ‘the establishment of free primary, .  secondary and university education, Libya is perhaps  one of the very few States in which education at the  university level is free. But at the same time we  have to train the necessary staff for technical educa-  tion; for this purpose we lack the necessary experts;  and heré again, to remedy this situation, we count  on Unesco's help,
4,14 Further, the Libyan Government is endeavour-  ing to eradicate illiteracy, Thanks to Unesco's  assistance, adult education is making progress in  the southern region of the country. Our illiteracy is-  a heritage from the colonial period; or rather, it is
189  XII  due to the fact that, during the las! thirty years, all  our efforts have been concentrated op: our struggle  against colonfallsm, | -
4,16, The Government is ‘tnoreastnif the number of  evening schools for workers and othe,t adults; - but  our resources and experience are not yufficient to  enable us to carry out this task by ounjelves, >
4,16 In fact, Unesco began to asie.” us in 1051 -  a long time before Libya's admissiof/ to the Organiza-  tion, Libya's geographical situatio‘, its history and  the innumerable marks of culture stil! existing on its  soil warranted such help from an Organization which  is devoted to the service of education, science and  culture,
4,17 Abyno meuns ‘modest share of the Organiza-  tion's limited financial resources was granted us  undey the Participation programme in order to help  us establish a national broadcasting service, designed  to extend the benefits of knowledge to those who, in  the remotest parts of the country, had previously been  deprived of this advantage by an unjust combination of  circumstances,
4,18 Appreciating the importance of close co-  operation with Unesco, we set up; last year, a  National Commission for Uneaco. Its first act was  to establish contact with the representatives of the .  National Commissions of the other Arab countries, at  the Regional Conférénce of Fez, - Today, the Organiza-  tion is offering hospitality to the Executive Secretary  of our Commission, 80 as to enable him to study its  various activities at first hand,
4,19 Might I now venture to address myself directly  to this General Conference and draw its kind attention  to the resolutions and recommendations votéd by the  Fez Conference of Arab National Commissions, and  adopted by all the Commissions of the countries re-  presented at it, as well as by their respective  governments?
4,20 Libya is an integral’ part ‘of. this vast Arab,  world, with which it has many problems and interests  in common; :It therefore hopes that you will devote -  particular ‘attention to the wishes expressed at the  Fez Conference, particularly with regard to the =  Major Projécte’ on Mutual Appreciation of Eastern  and Western Cultural Values and on Scientific Re-  search on Arid Lars, : It-also hopes that a project  similar to the oné being carried out in Latin America,  in the field of primary education, “can be studied under  the auspices of Unesco and carried out, to'a certain  extent, in all parts of the Arab world,
4,21 In conclusion, and on behalf of my country,
1 wish to express my sincere thanks to the Secretariat,  the Director-General and the Executive Board of  Unesco for their unremitting efforts to ensure the  complete success of this Conference and of the  Organization's enterprises.
6, The PRESIDENTS
1 thank the delegata of Libya and call on Mr. Ngo-  Dinh-Luyen, delegate of Viet-Nam.
61 Mr, NGO- DINH- -LUYEN (Viet- Nam) (Transla-  tion from the French}:  Mr, F jesident, ‘ladles and ‘gentlemen, on the  occasion of the inauguration of Unesco's permanent  Headquarters the entire world warmly associates .  itself with our joy.   Xn
6,2 It is indeed a happy occurren¢a that Paris, by  admitting into iis classical setting this successful  combination of modern art and technique, has  succeeded In enhancing its predestined harmony with  new splendour, and that France, the chosen home of  sclencé and letters, has by its generous hoapitality. ;  re-heated this erucible in which the noblest and most !  original forms of human culture seek to blend,
6,3 : Beyond these happy omens; the peoples of the  world, ardently aspiring to‘fréé and harn.nnioun co-  operation; discern a promise of peace, a peace to be  built by essentially peaceful’ means, :
6,4 It is indeed à yaluable promise, but how fragile  it is, given the all too concrete t:-reats now over-  hanging the world’s future, and the unhappy tendency  apparent even in this assembly - to raise highly con-  troversial questions aggressively and pressingly,thvs  exacerbating an already latent hostility at a time when  a spirit of tolerance and patience is so essential to  our mutual understanding and the rapid progress vf  our work}
65 Other ‘Intérnational organizations are endeavour-  ing, each in ite own field; to prepare bases for inter-  national understanding, ‘ It 1s indeed a thankless task,  if ever there was one; to reconcile interests which,  from country to country and by {he very nature of  things; conflict so violently with one another that  mankind is already on the brink of the abyss.
6.6 Unesco ls therefore extremely privileged to be  able to work ii the ¢alm sphere of culture, where  national characteristics and peculiarities, far from  claghing;: complete aid ‘enrich each other for the  greatest good of mankind, a
6.7 But this privilege, like every ‘privilege; entails  a servitude, This world of science arid culture, :  where thé constant habit of reasoning in terms of the  Ideal and the absolute does not always lend itself to  _ a proper adaptation’ of theoretical principles to the  complex realitles of life; 18 à world in which the -  search for truth proceeds’ by ‘continual trial and,  error, on the basis of simple and precide working  hypotheses, ‘This method demends clear ideas; un-  challerigeablé data and rigorously defined conditions,
6.8 In life, however, there are no absolutely claar  and'unchallengeable data, Whéreas an erroneous  working hypothesis can be replaced ‘without any detri-  ment to science, an unhappy initiative is always |  dearly paid for'in life, ‘ This fundamental difference  between science and life is so obvious that it has  been necessary to devise technique in crder to cope  with it, - LE
6.9 : “Unesco, also, ts endowed with life: ‘and, as  a lying organism; . it 1s'not easily or.always reducible  to logical’ formulae, - In order to reconcile formal  logic wiih Unéaco's work, -a technique is necessary:  procedure, Otherwise, within" these precincts -  devoted to culture, endless and fruitless discussions  would - éimply offend your reason, exhaust your  patience and,’ what is worse, paralyse our Organiza-  tion. + i
6,10 That is why, despite the seemingly atitactive  logic and.the eloquently expressed reallem which :  have characterized certain earlier, emphatic speeches  trom this tribune, the Viet- Namese delegation did  not approve, them. -.. + . ae
6.11 This improper association of an immense  population and an age-old culture is logical only in
190  PLENARY MEETINGS  appearance, Can the value of a cullure be estimated  according to the plze of the population which lays  claim to if? In that case, the present number of  Hellenists and Latinists would ‘give a yery poor idea  of the brilliant Greek and Latin cultures, i
6.12 This association of a huge population and an  hge-old culture is all the more out of place in that  those advancing it forget to emphasize that, between ;  (dis very population and this very culture, à inodern .  Great Wall has been erected by the constitution, laws  and mimr regulations of a regime which runs exactly  counter to that culture,
6.13 As to the realism invoked by these speeches, .
1 will simply point out that the measures proposed in  itil name ave sucl: that the mere discugsion of them |  w¢lld, if prolonged, suffice to divide our assembly  irremediably; at the present session of the Confer-  ence, a clear majority is opposed to the discussion  of the measures concerned., .
6.14 Mr, President, delegatee, in making these  few remarks ! have merely wished to explain to the  Conference my delegation's point of view. It was not  my intention to reopen an inopportune discussion, and  I shall not do so,
6.15 1 shall not do so, because of my respect for  and devotion to our.Organization, whose prestige  would be seriously impaired if such a debate were  unduly prolonged. .
6.16 I shall not do 80, because of my regard, for  all the honourable délegates here present; for, in  the case of questions ‘which have been discussed for
80 long, the mere, thought that a few words would.  suffice to effect a radical change in the position of a  delegate or his country is in itself a grave slur upon  the dignity of thoge concerned, : _..
6.17 | 1 shall not do so, lastly, because the Viet-  Namese delegation is convinced that this place of  assembly, which 1s the” symbol of our fraternal co-  operation, should not serve as a hothouse for the . °  ripening of highly controversial questions, It should  be a place whére questions which have already  matured are given a practical solution. ‘
6.18 It is in this spirit that, in dur draft ‘amiend-  ments to certain items of the proposed programme  for 1959-1960, we suggest, for approval hy the Con-:  ference, the éstablishment of centres for regional,  activities; I say cenires for regional activities and  not reglonal centres, for what we mean is not regional  centres, for. what we mean 13 national centres which,  owing to the facilities they now offer on the regional -  level and in a partiéalar field (education, stlence or .  culture) should be encouraged by Unesco to assume the  task of strengthening regional co-operation in that field,
6,19 Without involving an increase in expenditure,  our proposal would make it possible to.turn to better -  account the co- operation which already exists, or has  been prepared by nature, ‘between’ nelghbouring -  countries, : If approved; this ‘proposal would make  region concerned, win for the Organization the good-,  will of the peoples of that region, and thus obtain for  it that enthusiastic support of the tpañdes which it has  go far ‘received only ona limitec sedi. -
6.20 In this way, each country,’ At its own-region  and according to its potentialities, would be able to  make an even more effective contribution to regional  and international co-operation, -  *   PLENARY MEETINGS XII  - 6.31 The tirgt of oùr draft _ amendments, which  relates to draft resoluilon 1,52, aske the General  Conference to study the advis, ability of establishing  a centre for regional seivii in the field of funda-  mental education for Toh East Asta,
6.22 [repeat that | it 18 not proposed to establish a  centre sinillar to CREFAL or ASFEC, The Viet-  Namese delégation’ would like to see one national  centre per region authorized to act’ ap’a liaison body,  in order to eriablé the various national centres to ex-  change the results of their experfericé at regional '  seminais and symposia, which would be attended by  those responsible for fundemental education in each  region.
6.23 Our second draft amendriënt recommends  steps to Secure ‘the. recognition of the regional compe-  tence of the Nhatrang ‘Oceanographic ‘Institute. Owing  to its favourable geographical sitiiation and the en-  couraging results it has obtained in organizing, under  Unesco's' auspices, regional training courses, itis  oùr Institute's ambition simply to offer its héad-  quarters for the regional | or internaitonal meetings  of speclalists arid experts desirous of co-operating  ia research which, thanks to a better use of marine,  resources, is calculated to improve the standard of  life of the peoples of South East Asia and of other  countries,
6,24 Lastly, our hid draft amendment relates to  the Major Project on Mutual’ Appreciation of Eastern  snd Western Cultural Vales”
6.25 . South East Asfa; Which for a ‘considerable  time has witnessed the conflict and then the inter-  penetration of the various Eastern’ and Western  ‘cultures, comprises different ‘States, most of ‘which  have recentiy gained their independence and are  inspired. by, the common desire to strengthen their  cultural links with each other and exchange the  results ot theïr ‘experiericé” itn regard to a new form  of intellectual and spiritual lite! 5 =
6,26 Thus,-in'order {g obtain batter résulté trom:  the Major Project, it, would be ‘adyisablé to establish  à centre for regional cultiral activities with a view  to the mutual’ ‘appreciation’ éf cultural values... “Atthis  future centre, periodic meet ngs would by érganized,  and cultural experts belonging to the reglon toncerned,  or to other regions, could be invitéd fo atténd them.
6.27 We are firmly copvinced that thé mutual  understanding - , which is, “naturally easier ‘to establish -  of the cültural ‘movements of countriés bélonging to  the same geographical ‘region is an important step  towards a more acdurate’s and niore fruitful apprecia-  tion of cultures which Aré rerioter not only in space  -but in specific characteristics,’
6.28. Thus, the sole object of these three draft  amendments is {0 present to the Organization  suggestions’ likely to contribute to the more effective  implementation of certain résolutions alréady approved  by the Géneral Conference, = °
6,20 I sincerely hope that these ‘explanations will  enable this assembly to. examine’ favourably the purely  methodological measures which the Viet-Namese  delegation has submitfed to it,
6.30 Mr, President, ‘delegates, 1 should’ ike, in  conclusion, to reaffirm Viet-Nam's unshokeable faith  in Unesco and express its sincere thanks to all those  who have contributed to the growth of the Organiza-  tion and the great success of this tenth session of the
191     General ‘Conference, In _parilcular, ! wish to thank  the Executive Board end thé members of thé Unesco  Secretariat - especially the Director-General, -  Dr, Luther Evans, and the Assistant Director- '  General, Mr, Adiseshiah - not only for their fruitful  efforts iñ the servich of the Organization, but also  for the deep interest they have taken in my country  by visiting it in order to see for themselves Viet-  Nam's achievements in the fields of education, science  and culture.
7. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Viet-Nam and now have  pleasure in calling on the delegate of Liberia, Mr.  Massaquoi,
8.1 - Mr, MASSAQUOI (Liberia):  Mr. President, tsllow delegates, it has been  “sald: "If I'may make a nation's songs, I care little  who makes its laws", This expression may be  appropriate to’ simpler civilizations than ours but,  mutatis mutandis,’ it remains true; It is the thinkers,  writeré, ‘artists; the historians and mer ‘of sciénce,  who dé what {8 now equivalent to "making the nations  songs", It 18 they whi} shape the unconscious back-  ground of & ‘péople's thought; turn the focus of their  attention this way or that way, Itis they who, if they  perform this duty, ‘proféct nations against the beset-  ting temptations of igioranice and prejudice. This  strength and’ unity whith in our time dominates and  penetrates life in géneral is not merely a pledge of-  progress) - it reassures us that there is hope that  mankind may not gé down in ruin,"  * All through the iges man has been inspired  by man, beglnilng ‘with Aristotle who, writing above  the heads of his’ contemporaries; was for a thousand  years unknown’ to Eur oper then on down the Line to -  Albertus Magnus, Roger Bacor and St, Thoïnas’  Aquirias; who made ft possiblé’for Christian philosophy  to absorb the works of Aristotle,” Then came a --  second period with thé beginning of modern science,  led by Galileo and Déticartes, ‘otherwise known as  Cartesiua, which brought about thé first schism 1h  the empire of Aristotle through the discovery that  nature is a yast machine; dnd that, given the inital  data of matter’and métion,- it would be possible to  construct the whole of nature by means of mathema-  tical opérations, "Actording to this diséovéry, mind  and purpose dre not Within the realm sf natural  science and, therefore, the whole material world is  not influenced by any’ intélligence or ‘design. It was  this discôvéry that dethroned Metaphysics and °  crowned Mathematice as thé Queen of Sclences.
8.3 _ Even béfore this period; gréat ‘spiritual  leaders, like Confucius in China, ‘Gdulama Buddha -  and Vardhamand Maldvira in Indié, felt that the world  had fallen into décay. "Right principles had disap-  peared, perversé ‘difiéourses a:d oppréssive deeds  had waxed rife; and therefore the time for reform  had come, The Buddhist belleved thét ééñversion  was to be effected by persuasion,’ nôt by the sword,  and King Asoka of Magadha, did for Buddhism what  the, Emperor Constaliting of Rome did for Christianity,  These two great spirifual reforniers of the East  preached the bélfef hat: "Man can enlarge his  principles, but principles do not enlarge Man; that  is, Man is greater than any system of thought",   XII  They believed that: "learning undigested by thoughi  is labour lost; thought unassisted by learning is  perilous”. They considered too, that: "a poor man  who does not flatter, and à rich man who is not proud,  arg passable characters: but they are not equal to  ‘the poor who yet are cheerful and the rich who yet  love the rules of propriety’,
8.4 - The two hundred years that followed the dis-  coveries of Galileo and Descartes continued to widen  the gap between metaphysics and mathematics until  it reached its climax in what is known as "Newton's  principia", or the Mathematical Principles of *  Natural Philosophy, published in 1687. Newton, how-  ever,. whilat agreeing with Descartes that mathematics  is the clue to nature, also agreed with Aristotle on  the true concept of nature.
8.5 Thus passed away the empire of Aristotle,  Albertus Magnus, Roger Bacon and St, ‘Thomas  Aquinas - that school which applied ‘Aristotelian  methods and principles to the story of revealed doc-  trine and gave to the world the scholastic sysiem  which embodies the reconciliation of reason and  orthodox faith,. Modern sclençe, in attempting ‘to  assume thé functions which philosophy was destined  to perform - that of giving knowledge of the, real ;  nature of the material world and even of the universe  as a whole - and in seeking to escape from’ mediagval  tradition and dogma in which Aristotle had beep incor-  porated by men like Alexander of Hales and Albertue  Magnus, left Aristotle aside, and neglected the, deep  and genuine science of his writings becauge it had |  been yoked with what 1s known as Christian Dogma,  But this bréâch was not to last forever: at the begin-  ning of the Nineteenth century,’ two physicists, Young  and Fresnel, made the first breach with Newtonian  physica by the discovery of the wave theory of light.  Again in 1895 Rbrtgen discovéred the X-rays, This -  discovery of radloactivity led to the formation of the  Quantum Théory, by, Planck, “The. results of these  three inventions ôr discoveries proved that radiation  is not contintious, but occurs in blocks, or in pockets -  an {dea contrary.to that of Newton, who maintained  that movement war’ strictly continuous, .
8.6 Ten yéars (ater, in 1905, the Michélson-Morley  experiment exploded the theory of ! ‘absolute space and  time" of Newtonian aclerice - which led Albert  Einstein to suggest that the ‘ ‘absolute space and  time"! of Newtônian science ought to be abandoned,  Thus vanished the fundamental concept, that mailer  is something permanently « extended in space and per-  sisting in time, and with it the idea that science is  * capable of telling us anything of the nature of things,  apart {rom describing phenomena, .,.
8.7 In this struggle for supremacy over. the shaping  of the ‘’unconctous background" of a man's thoughts,  the position of the ordinary man is pitiable. -The _ .  modern philosopher, tells the. modern scientist that  the faculty of reason which he so ‘brilliantly uses is  quite impotent to arrive at the truth about “arything,  and the scientist listens with | great respect and agrees  that ultimate reality is quite irrational, The results  of modern science are enough to lend colour to the  charge that we know not the thing but only our ideas  of the thing. Science now admits frankly that it has  only symbolic knowledge of the reality which it is  investigating with such magnificent success, Is it  not time for modern philosophers also to stop    PLENARY MEETINGS  cletming that the mind haa direct and immediate know:  ledge of reality? Is it not the frank and truthful thing  to admit that we do not and cannot know anything of  reality as Tt 1s in itself, but make our own truth, which  has no necessary 1 relatioif to the truth of reality Ttselt?  No, I think it is not, u we do not know reality we  know nothing, The’ frank thing {s té admit jt, Truth  in the mind concérning ihinge Gutalde the mind is ~~  entirely meaningless unless there is a ‘¢orrespondence  between the idea iu the mind and the reality outside  the mind; the only reason why a scientific theory can  be convénient and fruitful 18 that it represents at ledst  an approximation to the truth,
8.8 Because of all of the “Invéntione of modern  Europe, because of the ascendancy of Europe in the  field of science, the Industrial Revolution which  followed gave Europe a lead in the mass production of  consumer goods, Je: also’ gave Europé the lead in the  invention of weapons, of war; therefore the | pressure  oi Ghengls Khan,’ and Suleiman the Turk, sé6on ‘became  an affair of the past, and’ Europe at fast gained i Bupre-  macy over the Americas, oyer. Asta- and Africa. The  Pilgrim Fathers Tended on Plymouth Rock and founded  the United Staies of America, _ the’ cériquistadores  founded Awent Latin American States, and Af rica was  partitioned’ at, the Berlin Congress of 1885, ,Ç
8,9 But one can hardly éxpect'a man not trained to  clear thinking to appreciate all this, still lesé to draw  a philosophy from ft." fn these circumstances, I feel,  sure that If is but right to lay before the ‘plain, mana  plain statement} the 1. egult “of all’ inia’ controyersy.:  between philosophy d mdderd ‘sélencé {s that thé  spiritual unity which was known to the world undér  the leadership of Christian Europe is fast vanishirig. -  This disappearance of religiouia witty fiiévi{ab);  brought about the disappearance of ali the other’ fats  of unity which had been established under it and  means of ft; so that we have. arrived today at de  period of the greatest Tridrontat ior, And ft is he eis  during this period that the rot attempt at tnter-’  ‘nationalism pus been made, . Means of éommunication  ‘have been multiplied, he’ longest Journeys have become  ‘easy and ‘accesaible’ to everyone} but in proportion as  | the physical distances botweén | riations. ‘and continents  have been shortened, the moral ‘distérices - the only  . ones that çount - : hay es grown. . Ease of physical com-'  munication and Antist of intellectual communication  are the two characteristiés of ‘our age.’ .  : 8,10 Modern ‘éiyllzatton had thé ‘illusion sf having  . succeeded in forming, onée and for all, à certain type  of man governed by ‘rational intélifgenté, An which it  had complete confidence, _ ‘But the violent’ Teactions  which occurred in 1914 and 1939 showed that man  decides and acts less according to reason, évidence.  justice and right, than under the ünre soning impulse  of religious emotions, , Christiaritÿ, Islam, Buddhism,  Confuclanism and Juda\sim had know how to control  and direct. Modern civilization sought to ‘substitute  for these what we know as lay religions;® but they have  not lasted, they could not last for all’ their national  façade, beéause they did not satisty human nature,  It happened fhefl, as was inevifabfe,” that man, detached  and weaned from thé great religions, returned instinc-  tively to his former paganism and to what was at the  root of that paganism - thé religion of the fribe, the  religion of blood, the religion of the Gity-State, Man  will never be rational, or for long secular, nationalist,
192   PLENARY  - or matérialist; hencé thé irrational or mystical  character of the contemporary world, ‘This instinc-  tive aild feeling world which needs to love, to feel  - enthusiasm; to sacrifice itself for causes, and for  which individual human life has little value, will  follow more and mors those forces which corne to  seize the fashioning forces; it will escape more and  more from-those who represent intelligence end  culture as we have known them up to now, It is e  barbarous and even primitive world, like that which  grew upon the broken and’ shattered body of the  Roman Empire. Beneath modern appearances, with  all our formidable technical methods, in spite of the  violent break with the recent past of the Eighteenth  and Nineteenth centuries, jn spite of our new  discoveries, we are still in the presence of a move-  ment of retrogresslon, .We of Unesco must realize  that it fe useless to ory "Peace! Peace!’ unless that  peace is indivisible and universal. Peace is the  quietness of order, and order {a that disposition  which, according to the likeness or unlikeness of  things, assigna to each one its place, . Peace, which  in human life is created daily at one point to be des-  ‘ troyed at another, is the result and the reward of  “long pailence, It is a matter of conciliations, adjuat-  © ments, rapprochements, exchanges, It is a long  evolution which we must work to make creative,  Peace fs faith, but faith which knows how to submit.  to realities, . ‘Peace 18 charity, but the highest and  - most difficult kind of charity, Peace is not the  monopoly of a single institution, or a single depart-  ment; it is synthesis,’ in which all those who think -  and suffer are called upon to co-operate. We must  therefore, if we are to! construct the defences of  peace, first in the minds of men", do away with all  power politics, mean what we say, and say what we  mean,
8,11 : . According to Unesco statistics; 40% o or 700  million of the adult population of the world cannot  read and write, “About half the countries and terri-,  tories of the world have at least 50% illiteracy, or.  - more, among their adult population, ‘In most of the  countries ôf Africa the percéntage of illiteracy is  much higher than 76%; :: What is Unesco doing to solve  this problem? Under what wé term ""Out-of-School  Education", Project 1, 5‘of the present programme  and budget, the total appropriation for both Regular.  programme and Technical -Assistancé,. for the period
1956-1857, Was approximately $2, 500, 000, and the  proposed appropriation for the period - ‘1059- -1960,now  “ before us for discussion, is $1,960,300, about half  a million dollars less than the previous year, :  - Similarly, under Project 1, 6, entitled "Out- of-  School Education for Young: People and Adults", there ’  is a decrease of about $17,000 between the period  now under review and the period 1956-1957, In the  field of social science; however, the amounts appro-  priatéd under both the Régular programme and under  Technical Assistance were increased by about 15%,  and in the latter'case by 100%: from $1,876,100 to  $2,035,900, and for Technical Assistance from  $175,000 to $1250, 700, -.
8,12 - Under Project 4, 73; - entitled "Production of  Reading Material for New Literates and the New,  Reading Public", an intérdepartmental project, only  ‘a nominal increase of $20,000, i.e, about 10%, is  provided for the period 1959- 1960 over the period
193  MEETINGS  _ minority of about 15% of t  Xu
1957-1058. Under Project 4, 81, Culture and Inter-  national Understanding, . mention ie made of arrange-  ments for a discussion to be devoted to the cultures  of Equatorial Africa,’ and for.the publication of a first  anthology of texts selected from various literatures  of Africa South of the Sahara, It is also planned to  offer a contract to a specialist on Africa, for the  preparation of a first anthology of translations, into  French and English; : of répresentative texts from the  literary heritage of this region. This id indeed  commendable for, as i had occasion to mention  recenily, African culture must not be represented in  Unesco by proxy; if {i 1a to be represeniid at all, it  must be represented freely, and be truly representa-  tive of its literary heritage,
8,13 In connexion with the Major Frojéct on. ‘Mutual  Appreciation of Eastern and Western Cultural Values,  it was agreed by most Member. States of Unesco that  the terms “East” and "West" should. not have a  primarily geographical acceptation. It was also  agreed that, in order to appreciate this principle of  mutuality; we all must firet know and understand |  those values, We must; "however, realize that the  cultures of most of these, countries are now in a .  state of flux, altering daily from the age-old traditions  and developing, through social, economic and so  political changes, towards a more unified world  culture, It is therefore the Spinion € of the Liberian  delagation that the main trend or tour de force of thie  Major Project is to develop, as a means to an énd, a  transition which will lead us to appreciate more and  more the diversity of cultural values, It is to develop  an appreciation, that may be called a rhythm, of  diversities which will finally produce. harmony for  the musioian, a poem for the poet, a painting for the  artist, truth for the philosopher the essence of  matter for the sclentisf, and at last peace for all’  mankind, The delegation of Liberia also belfeyes  that it is in this spirit that Unesco must aéçept the  Major Project for the Mutual Appreciation of Eastern  and Western Cultures, and not aga ‘means keeping  the nations of the world divided’ through diversity.
8,14 Within the next two years, fellow delegates,’  there will be admitted into the tnternatfonal family  at least five or six more African States, in addition  to the eight which are ‘already, members of. Unesco,  namely.the United Arab Republic, Libya [Tunisla,  Morocco, Sudan, Ethiopia, Ghana and Liberia {a,. In  addition to this groyp of about thirteen States, there  are the States which have by popular consent’ agreed  to associate freely with France, They are Maureta-  nia, Senegal, Sudan, Niger, Upper. Volta, Tyory |  Coast, Dahomey, the States of Equatorial Africa,  and Madagascar. There is the vast Belglan ‘Congo  and Ruanda-Urundf, and the. territories under the  administering powers of Portugal - - Angola, .  Mozambique and Portuguese Guinea, There are also  the British Dependencies of Sierra Leonie, “Kenya,  Uganda, Tanganyika,.in East ‘Atriçe, and the central  African Federation, in central ‘Africa, . ‘Last but not  least, there are the teeming millions now béing  isolated and discriminated against by a small  population’ ‘fn South  Africa, under the legal cubtertuge of so-called  apartheid, What will Unesco do in its | programme  to help these millions of Africana? Although we  appreciate the special items in the programme and      xn  budget under discugsion, on vocational’ training, etc,  this is just € beginning, a drop in the bucket,” I appeal  to all Membér States of Unesco, and to the Adminis-  ‘tering Powers of Africa, to collaborate with the  - Organization’ in bringing to the human masses of  Africa the true meaning of the Universal Declaration  of Human Righis. >”
8, 16;  this, but there Is still room fôr improvement in a  contirient whèré the social'and-éténomic ebb is the  lowest in the world," Fellow delegates, {nour --  struggle for peace we must Yegard éducation; sélence -  and ‘culture not as the end’ but as à means tô the end,  We must all agrée to use our educational progress, -  scientific fiventions and cultural attainments only in  thé quest for pedce, not as weapons to destroy and  dividé humanity. ©
8. 16°  to pay hémage (à the hoët government of this Organ-  ization,’ to France, France, in making possible  interest-free lodria, and in giving us the title to the  land upon Which this building was constructed, has  agdin madè the saying of Victor Hugo come true,  It was he who said: "Tout homime a deux patries:  la siénné et puis la France",
9. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr, Massaquoi,  delegate of Iran, Mr, Raadi,
1 now call on the
10, 1 “Mr: RAADI (fran) (Translation from the  French):  - Mt, President, Adie and’ ‘génilemen,- 1 have  already had the honour, in this very place and during  the feat hoiirs of the presen} session, of paying a  tribute to the Frénch Governmen{ and thé French  people, and of expressing : our deep gratitude for the  welcome” ‘given to ds, Allow me to do #0 once again  on behalf of the Iranian delégation;” - «
10,2 Fellow’ ‘dblegates, as you aje aware,’ Whoever  speaks at the end of à long discussion yery often risks  repeating What previous speakers have already sald,  certain more ‘éloquéntly and brillianily than himself.  I shall erefore hot déal hére with’ quéstions: ‘which  we shall have occasion to raise or develop in the  Comfaissions and Committees,” Had there been  sufficient tithe, I would have wished to indicate,  during this discussion, my delegation's deep interest  in all parts of the progrämme, I find it difficult to  choose a few items ‘alone; such a choice is inevitably  .résh; as may be seen from this rough translation of  certain Lines by Sadi of Shiraz:  "Like a hungry dervish  Invited to the royal banquet,
1am af loss whit todo;  Ata single glance, 1 should like to adinire  Every part ‘of your ‘body. +
10, 3° In any case; the choice I make does not mean  ‘that lam not interested in the other questions, I shall |  begin with à few general remarks and refer, first of  all, to Unesco's budget.’ :
10,4 , We are convinced that ihe ‘prsposed budget is  a very ‘modest one, and that it'shôuld go much beyond  the figure indicated; ‘ but, as contributions are dis-  tributed among ail Member States, even modest -  increases in the budget would bè a heavy burden for  countries with small financial resources, In the
194  “Many Administering Powers are’ alrsadÿ doing  "Mr, Président, fellow delegates, 1 wish; here, ’     PLENARY MEETINGS  words of an old proverb, "the dew causes a flood in.  -the ant-hill’,
10,6 . How,:then, can we récohcile this fact with the  need to {increase the budget? Like the honéurable -;  head of the Brazilian dslegation, we think that solutions  for the problem exist, Would it not bé possible, for.  instance, to provide for an increased budget by the .  establishment of one or more special funds which,  being of an international nature; would offer all the  necessary guaranteea?" - CE
10, 6 .- In this respect, it 1s encouraging to note that  our Conference ‘has before it a project for Unesco's  co-ôperation with ihe United Nations Special Fund,  It will also study à report on the establishment of an  International Fund for Education, Science and  Culture, - It would suffice to adapt those funds to the  need for ‘strengthening Unésco's finanéial resources,
10,7 We also consider that, within the present  limits of Unesco's resources, savings could be made  thanks to an even closer study of its administrative  management. ‘The resulting surplus would make it  possible to. strengthen and extend the programme  “ activities; : -..
10,8 Another question r should like to mention here  is that of the geographical distribution of posts on the  Secretariat, - We feel that greater efforts should be  made in this direction; . We are glad that the principle  recommended to the Executive Board by the Irantan  Government, that there should bé an improvement in  this geographical distribution,’ has been adopted and  submitted to the General Conference. But we hope  that this principle will be applied scrupulously and  as liberally as possible. .
10,9 In connexion with this same ‘problem . - the.  recruitment of staff ! ‘1.venture to recall the fanda-.  mental question of common basic training for candt-  dates for the intértiational civil service; * Despite *  certain deliys and shortcomings,’ surveys have been  carried out pursuant to a résolution which we proposed  at the eighth sesaion of the ‘Géneral Conference, and  we feel that it is now time to consider. this question  with the careful attention it deserves.  to it in thé Administrative Commission, but I venture  now to state that thé real aôluilon to the problem of  reconciling the two principles governing recruitment -  namely, professional qualifications and geographical  distribution - 18, in our view, the one which we had  ‘the privilege of recommending at the Montevideo  Conference: :
10,10" We agree unreservedly. with the ‘nlnierous -  delegations which have advocated à-xadical,- Tealiatic  and vigorous reform in the programme of the Educa-  tion Department, - This reform müot éngüre that -  Member States! efforts to eradicate illiteracy, an  well as their efforts in other fields uch as secondary  and higher education and particularly technical and  vocational education, shall be backed up and 20, toa  greater extent than in the past, integrated In. Unesco! 8  work, 240
10, 11 After these geñéral remarke; Mr. President,  allow me to refer té certain môre détailed items of  the programme. For the reasons I have already .  indicated; 1'shall confinemyself to a few projects,  particularly the three Major Projects which aim at  toncentrated action in the fields of education, scierice  and culture. .
10,12 - Regarding thé Majôr Project o on Mutual  We shall revert   PLENARY  Appreciation of Eastern and Western Cultural Values,’  while éxpresaing our sincere attachment to its aime, .  we are, like several other delegations, convinced of  the need for its gradual adaptation to realities, «The  two years given to us for preparing the implementa-  tion of this project have now elapsed; but we consider  that this preparation should continue, particularly on  the psychological and governmental levols, It is «-  necessary to speed up the creation of national com-  mittees and ensure that the entire system of inter-  national cultural relations shall be gradually  harmonized with the aims of this project. -
10,13 The peoples are already becoming incensed  and restive owing to the continual interference of  temporary political factors in the appreciation of the  eternal cultural values, «It 1s high time that, thanks  to the implementation of the project, the grandeur  and strength of human communities be evaluated, no  longer according to their power of destruction, but  according to their contribution to human sulture and  mutual understanding. » 5
10,14 With regard to the Major Project on Scien-  iific Research on Arid Lands, we have always felt |  that it could be better conceived and organized: but,  in our opinion, it lacks adequate financial resources,  Its success, of course, like that of the other Major  Projects, depends mainly on the co-operation of all  the States concerned, ' As to my own country; | am  glad to say that; during the last two years, we have  made a contribution which was even considered, in  certain quarters, as being above our means. We  have established an Arid Zone Research Centre, -  Iran has already devoted to this project, on the  national level, twelve million rials; {, e, the equiva-  lent of approximately. $160,000, A further sum of-  $300, 0000 is envisaged for next year. In October  last, we organized in Teheran; and to a large extent  defrayed the cost of, an International Symposium on  Salinity Problems in Arld Zones.’ In the opinion of  the experts themselves, this meeting, which was  attended by scientists from the different regions of :  the ‘world, was crowned with success. - We thank the  Secretariat,’ in the person of its distinguished  Director-General, for its valuable assistance in the  organization of the Symposium; Further, the Re-  search Centre has been provided with a special  building offering all the required facilities, ... .
10,15" All these efforts, Mr.. President, - show that  my country, while remaining firmly attached to ite -  cultura) past, does not overlook the indispntable fact  that today,’ more than ever before, scientific progress  is the determining factor in an improvement of social  conditions, which is the keystone of peace in a just  and prosperous world,
10,16 We sincerely hope that the Teheran Re-  search Centre will receive, as a designated institute  .and on an equal footing with similar centres in this  region, the agsistance which Unesco’ ‘already grants  to these centres, .
10,17 Regarding the Major Project on the Extension  of Primary Education in Latin America, I can only  express once again our deep interest in it, and con-  gratulate our Latin-American colleagues on their  attachment to it, : We ‘Asian peoples, whô,: on the -  educational and social levels, often have similar:  problems, are impatiently awaiting the successful  completion of this project and are closely following -  MEETINGS
195  its development, : We sincerely hope that, when.  possibilities and circumstances permit, a similar. -  major project will be prepared and implemented for  the benefit of the yast Aslan regions, We shall then,.  of course, profit by the experience acquired by the  noble Latin American nations, ... -.
10,18. Before. leaving the Major Projécts, allow me  to express the hope that another activity, which iv now  on the interdepartmenta] level, will shortly be given  the status of a Major Project - namely, .the production  of reading texts for new literates and the new reading.  public, This activity is already going forward in  several Aslan countries,
10,19 Numerous cultural Links with Astan countries  already encourage us to co: -cperate actively in this  project, particularly as the same problem exists, in  an acute form, in Iran, Following Unesco's recom-  mendations, we have undertaken & vast campaign  against illiteracy, under the. aegis of His Imperial  Majesty the Shah, who personally’ supervises the  special courses. inatituted for that purpose, . .
10,230 For all these multitudés of new literates,  whose appetite demands healthy and abundant intellec-  tual nourishment, the first food consists of texts  adapted to their needs; for literacy without ‘culture  would hardly be likely to serve Unesco's aims,
10, 21 : Lastly, Mr, President, without wishing to -  expatiate on the main heads of Unesco's activities, .
1 should like {0 add a few words about mass communi-  cation problems, While warmly. acknowledging the  Organization's efforts in this field, ,we feel it should  make a greater endeavour to discpyer the most direct  and appropriate means of reaching the masses.  Since it is a question of imbuing them with a love of  peace and expiaining to them, by concrete example,  the work of the United Nations and the Specialized  Agencies, a fuidamental rôle in this campaign for  mutual understanding. falls to press, radio,  television and film, ~~ 'j, ;,
10,22" It is to be. hoped that those who, control the  media of mass. communication in the various countries  will show greater interest in Unésco's work, respond-  ing to ita appeal and bringing it to the notice of the  public, In this connexion, I cannot pass over in .  silence à fact which I must describe as regrettable -  not to put it more strongly - the fact that most news-  papers with a wide circulation devote much more ‘  space to trivial: news items and sensational crimes .  than to the social achievements of the United Nations  and the Specialized Agencies,;
10,23. These are the few remarks which I wished.  to make during the present debate. .. _. …
10,24 Mr, President, we all desire peace; we are  all agreed on that: we start to disagree only when we  + come to seek the best and quickest means of redching  that goal. “We, often come up against ‘a formidable  obatacle, the intransigent sectarianism which always  thinks it has. the monopoly of peace and truth. Truth,  however, is necessarily one and universal, and -  peace is indivisible, . Only concerted, calm and oo  fraternal efforts can bring us-nearer fo the attainment  - of thege ideals,
10.25 In this quest for pente and truth, let us there-  foré strive, first and foremost, to combat misleading  prejudices, the exploitation of poverty. and ignorance,  all infringements of human freedom and dignity,  organized hatred and, particularly, blind fanaticism,   Xi PLENARY  * 10,26» And} in our efforts;: let us take inspiration  trom thesé words of another great Peralañ poél and  thinker ‘of the’ Thirteénth century,‘ Molana Djalaloddin,  which I! should like to leave with you: + =  “Just ai green fruit: unworthy of the palate,  Remains hanging on the tree which bears it,  But, once ripened ‘and full-flavoured,  Comes to the hand from the drooping branch,  So the sectarian reveals by his intransigence  That his mind is not mature: it is only *he embryo  That is nourished with blood",
11, "~The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Iran and now call upon the  delegate of Honduras, Mr. Mejia,
12,1 Mr, MEJIA (Honduras) {Translation from the  Spanish}: - - »  Mr, President, fellow delegates, - allow me, first  of all, to ¢onvey.to the distinguished delegates to  this tenth session'of Unesco's General Conference  the waim ‘greetings of {hé people and Gôvérriment of  the Republic of Honduras, together with their earnest  wishes that the Conference's work’ will bé ‘crowned  with success and produce practical results of benefit  to all Member States: I should like, also; to give  the heartiest congratulations to the’ Unesco authori-  ties on the building of this imposing Headquarters,  which will henceforth be a centre for all those who  are endeavouring to raise the educational; scientific  and cultural ‘standards of our peoples, We are  impressed by the interest and co-operation of the  French people and Government, ‘and the French  Minister of Education, in Unesco's work; they have  made possible the achievement of the Organization's  plans, ’
12,2 ' The Republid of Honduras has answered all  Unesco's requests and Unesco has done all that  Hondutas required of ft. But my country is under-  going a complete transformation; barely ten months  ago, a constitutional regime was ré- <established  there, and our people,’ "Who How enjoy all the free-  doms, are also demanding the reforni of their labour  systems and the full development of all their re-  sources in‘order that thé benefits of Progress may  be extended to the rémotest parts of the country.  These résôurcés, Mr, President and'delegates, are  not sufficient to enable us to honour all ‘our obliga-  tlons towards the péoplé, - Two hundred and thirty  thousand children are without schools, and a  considerable proportion’ of the population of two  millon inhabitants 1d illiterate: - the shortage of  furniture and éducational materials, as well as of  teachers’ and schéols is à matter of constant concérn  - té my Government, which 1s défrig all it can to re- -  duce illiteracy and improve the situation in the other  respects mentidhed, where the shortcomings speak  for tHemaëlvés,‘ The objéct of these remarks, Mr.  Presiderit ard delegates, isto draw your attention  to the situation tri Horiduras and to induce you to co-  opérate moré widely with my country, which has  sent represeniatives to this Conference in the confi-  dent hope. that it'can count upon you, :
12,3 - We were deeply moved when this Conference,’  in agreement with the Executive Board and the  Nominatiohs Cémmittéé, appointed a representative -  of my counthy as ore of {ts Vice-Presidénts for the  MEETINGS
196  first time in Unesco's history, For this high honour  granted to Honduras, I thank you, fellow delegates,  and I thank the authorities of Unesco. This is a great  triumph for my country, but the delegation of Honduras  wishes to win another triumph, namely fuller co-  operation,
12, 4 : ‘We are convinced that Unesco's work in our |  country will conäiderably improve ir the nedr future,  The technical mission sent there is advising the  Government ably and devotedly, At our Higher  Teacher-Training School, specialized departments -  have been established ‘and are already giving good  results. Primary education, covering both urban and  rural areas, was centralized this year and is now  completely under the technical and administrative .  control of the State, : Owing to this centralization, we  have had to double the education budget this year,and,  although there will be further small increases in the  budget during the coming years, they will not be  sufficient to enable us to achieve all we would wish,  I repeat that my Government is promoting education  with an enthusiasm unparallelled in all our history;  the following facts may bé mentioned in support of  this statement: {his year we opened 372 more  schools than last year; 894 new teachers were ap-  pointed; and the total number of children enrolled  increased by more than 26,000, i.e. almost twice  the number laid down in the Major Project on Exten-  sion of Primary Education in Latin America. That,  fellow’ delegates, is why we are asking for greater  co-operation, or -
12,5 Our country, with Unésco's assistäncè, has  already prepared the plans, projects and specifications  for the building of the Expérimental Teacher-Training  School, which is associated with the Major Project,  and one of the four teacher-tr: aining schools planned  for Latin America, Turning to Unesco's programme  and budget for 1959-1960; thé Honduran delegation -  considers that they have been drawn up in accordance  with the information and programmes provided by  Member States and have been carefully considered;  they should therefore be approved - subject, of  course, to our right to comment sppropriately in the  commissions, where we have to confirm our previous  statements of oiir needs, i-
12.6 Mr, Presiderit and delegates; the Honduran  delegation wishes to affirm its faith in Unesco; it is  fully convinced that the Organization will be able to  overcome the small obatacles to the realization of  the aims and ideals proclaimed in its Constitution,  and that peace and justice - for which all the peoples  yearn - will come to suffuse its Member States  through education, science end éulture.
12,7 May Unesco succeed in imbuing all men of  goodwill with the spirit of understanding and mutual  agréement as the guiding principle of all their actions  for the good of mankind,  The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Honduras and have pleasure  now in calling on the delegate of Nigeria, Mr, Esua.
14,1 Mr, ESUL (Nigeria): :  Mr, President and fellow delegates, it is indeed  a high honour to ms to have this opportunity of  addressing the Gentral Conference from this rostrum.  My last personal cuntact with Unesco was at its birth   PLENARY  in London'in 1945, - The memory of that great  occasion and thè distinguished personalities connected  with it is still fresh in my mind, ['can see for  - myself how considerably Unesco has grown'since -  then, and how it has attracted to its membership .  many countries which were then outside its fold,
14,3 I bring you the greetings of the Government  of the Federation of Nigeria and of the 35 million  Nigerians who are grateful for the arrangement  whereby countries which have not yet attained full  independence, but which enjoy a large measure of  internal self-government, can become Asgnoclate  Members of Unesco, ‘I wish to express Nigeria's'  gratitude to the Government of Great Brilain and  Northern Ireland which helped to bring this about,  That Government sponsored similar applications  from Malay and Ghana, which are now full members  of Unesco, :l trust that a-similar application from  Nigeria for full membership of Unesco will be  favourably received whél\ she attains hér iridepen-  dence in 1960, Great Biitain may be justly proud of  her splendid achievement which has resulted in so  many of her daughter nations, beginning with Canada,  becoming full Members of tInésco, and which has  placed her in a position to contribute 80 magnificently  to the strength and progress uf Unes¢o, ‘ Those who  derive some pleasure from ha)'ping on what they style  "British Imperiallam" can see for themsdlves this  magnificent achievement which as far as I am aware,  is without parallel in the history of any other of the  leading countries of our world,  :14,3- I am hot going to inflict on you a long speech  which might prejudice Nigeria's éasy admission to  full membership of Unesco at your next General  Conference in 1960, when Nigeria's application will  be before you, -
14,4. I think we should heed the’ advice of thie" Israelt  delegate who, in his speech from this rostrum last  week, counselled modesty, and suggested that. :  speakers should avoid hoasting of their réépective  country's wonderful achievements in the fields of  education, science and culture, :'I shall therefore  not attempt to set out Nigeria's achievements in’.  those fields, although, far from being insignificant;  they compare favourably with those of some {ndepen:  dent countries which are now full Members of Unesco,  Anyone who sincerely wishes to have some idea of  Nigeria's achievements in those {lelds can read again  the statement of the Nigerian delegate at the ninth  session of the General Conférence of Unesco at New  Delhi, in 1856, and can supplement tn-t information  with up-to-date facts and figures which a are readily  available, - ...
14,5 Nigeria has been” an Associate Member of  Unesco since 1966, and has pald its contributions for ’  the maintenance of this Organization, * Mr, President, -  permit me to add, not in any spirit of criticism, that  compared with the other Specialized Agencies of the  United Nations, such as the ILO, WHO and FAO,  Unesco makes the least impact, if any, upon Nigeria,  In fact, as far as we in Nigeria are concarned;  Uneeco has largely remalred a "distant rumour",  Any average person in Nigeria can point to concrete  achievements in that country by ILO, WHO and FAO,  ind yet the problems confronting Nigeria in the field  of education are very pressing, end call for the most  urgent attention,  MEETINGS
14.6 I do not wish-to lay the blame for that unfor-  tunate situation at the door of Unesco, ‘Perhaps it is  because Nigeriz has not asked that she has not’  received, : Probably Nigerih's request to Urésco for  assistance and guldance in the setting up of a National  Commigsion in Nigeria wap "10st in {ranaft", I how  renew that request, arid 1 wish to ‘couple it with the-  suggestion that; sinée our system of-education in  Nigeria is modelled largely on the British pattern, -  Unesco might consider sending us for this purpose,  at its own expense, someone with much experience in  the running of the National Commilspion of the United  . Kingdom, I take it that he would also assist in Betting  up the secretariat of Nigeria's National Commission,
14.7 In his interesting and thought-provoking  address to us at the opening of thin Conference last  week, Dr, Radhakrishnan of India sald, "Asia is  awake, Africa fs on the move", The ‘reports and  the proposed budget before us cléarly show the  attention Unesco is giving to educational ‘problenis in  certain parts of the world; parifcularly those of us  familiarly described as underdeveloped countries,  Unfortunately, Africa receives, on the whole, com-  . paratively little etteritlon from Unesco. In Nigeria,  for instance, there in a serlous shortage of teachers,  especially at the secondary school levél,: and partt-  cularly science teachers, If Unérico haa not béen able  to come to our help during the’ past’ few years, I hope  that when Nigeria sets up her National Commission,  as she must do as soon as possibly, aiid when she  formulates proposäls for which shiz will need Unesco's  technical assistance, those propdsala will receive  adequate support from this Organization, = :
14,8 This brings to my mind the'Cohcrete sugges-  tions embodied in the resolutions which'emerged from  the deliberations uf;the Conference of the World  Confederation of oleitzations of the Teaching Profes-  sion held in Rome last August, “particularly those  relating to educational development in the under-  developed areas of the world; for which assistance  is sought from such international bodies as Unesco,  I also remember that the WCOTP has selected for its  special study in 1959," Mutual Appreciation of  Eastern and Western Cultural Values", "I have no  doubt that-WCOTP can be of much help to Unesco in  its study of that subject,
14,9 On reviewing the proposed budget of Unesco  for 1869-1860, I find relatively little in it to make me  happy.--I should like to point out, however, that  paragraph 161, on page 23, which relates to a study  of ways and means of improving the teachers’ status,  welfare and salaries, ta more important than tippears  at first sight, According to a news item in the London  "Times" of 6 November 1958, ILO has already em-  barked upon a similar exercise, This question ought  to concern Unesco more than any other of the  Specialized Agencies of the United Nations, I there-  fore hope that Unesco will pursue that question vory  vigorously in the next few montha,
15.. The PRESIDENT;
1 thank the delegate of Nigeria, and I now call on  the delegate of Peru, Mr, Mac-Lean y Estenos.
16,1 .Mr. MAC-LEAN- Y ESTENOS (Peru) (Trans-  lation from the Spanish}: -  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, a brillant   . XII PLENARY  array of distinguished statesmen and speakers, »  gathered from almost all the countries in the world .  to me. à in this. concourae of minds amid the wonders  of the *’rance that is so dear to us, have preceded me  _ at this rostrum and seaffirmed their faith in the high  destiny and universal mission of the United Nations  Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, in  vibrant words which it would be superfluous for me  to altempt to repeat, . .
16,2 Thirteen years ago, ‘in a world exhausted by  war and distressed by the prosp:cte of à precarioùs  peace, “he Idea of ¢reating thie modern Arepagus  was conceived and given shape in London, The road  travelled since then haa been hard. When, in this  public affirmation of our comraon ideals, virtues,  shortcomings, successes and failures, we examine  our consciences together, we may, as we look back,  be satisfied with the work already done; and,  profiting by the tich experience gained - which has  much to teach us and also imposes obligations on  us - let fly our optimism like a swift arrow towards  the future, where go much still romains to be done. °
16.3 We are certainly all at one - and this unani-  mity is mos; heartening - in endorsing the fupdamen-  tal objects, to achieve which Unesco was established,  in a happy hour, in the midst of one of the world's  deepest crises, when it was torn between diatress  “ and hope, and when one, era was closing while another  was being ushered in, - This unanimity disappears,  however, and discord ariges and leads to aggressive-  ness, when the spume of à. Ory clears away and the  hard impact of reality is brought home to us,
16,4 In his speech last’ Friday; the delegate of the  United States of America, measuring the distance  which separates, Unesco from the peoples, stated  frankly and truly, in the light of his own experience,  that we had failed in our efforts to muke the peoples  appreciate what Unesco. has set oiit to do... Many of  them do not know what the sis; létters forming  Unesco's name stand for, or,are even unaware of  the very existence of. our Organizétion, whose pro-  gramme - in the words of the United States delegate. -  is formed of a seyies of separate departments  arbitrarily divided by individual pressures and --  ineffective’ compromises, . This is, to a large extent,  the bitter truth; and it is not only the man in the  street, the ‘ordinary man or woman, who ie of this  opinion; even the ruling and intellectual classes  wonder what | purpose is served by Unesco, what ia  its practical use, -why we are here, how and for what  purpose Member States’ contributions are employed,  and whether it 1s really worth while to carry on  projects costing so much, however fine in them- °  selves, It is urgently necessary to answer these  questions With. clear, eloquent and concrete facts  rather than with ‘words, ERA
16,6. Three high-priority projects, called "Major  Projects", ‘form the main subject of our discussions  at thic: stenth session of the General Conference; they  cong ved respectively relations between the Orient  and the, Occident, primary education in Latin America,  and technical assistance for the cultivation ci .:hid  zones and the reclamation of deserts, ‘’erhare I  may say a few words about each of them.
16,6 'No one certainly, either among ourselves or  among those who have preceded us or will succeed  us in the pursuit of universal brotherhood, would
198     MEETIRGAS  venture to question the advantages of establishing ..  closer ties and better inulual understanding between  the two parts of the world somewhat inappropriately  called "Orient" and "Occident", both of which have  given birth to cultures that have baen admired  throughout the centuries, Everywhere, more and  more voices are being raised in favour of this union  of minds, ; Small'groups of acholars, intellectuals  and men of goodwill are holding discussions and .  exchanging their views at round-table meetings, . We  are very rightly being reminded of cultural contacts  during bygone periods, the Ocoident's debt to the  Orient, and the Orient's debt to the Ocoident. Biblio-  graphical, documentary and art exhibitions are ‘being  organized, At Western univérsities, students are °  studying the civilization of Asia in other centüries;.  its linguistics and its archacology.- ‘'Major Projects"  are being worked out backed with funde, as in the’  case of the one we are discussing, to thé amount of  nearly $800,000, Despite all these good intentions,  however, ‘despite all these praiseworthy projects” ‘  and this considerable expenditure .- and, every two  yeara,- at the beginning of each session’ of the General  Conference, we are given proof of this - the Orlent  and the Occident continue to misunderstand one  another and to disagree to such an extent that, so far  at least, they give the impression that they can never  be reconciled; as though they were not two parts of  the same world but belonged; rather, .to two different  planets, - Unesco has not succeeded in accomplishing  ite lofty enterprise of promoting world-wide union, -  sd often proclaimed in optimistic terms in its official  documents, but just as often denied - and how elo-  quently!-- by the hard and bitter: realitia-ot Lite.
16.7 - The world is divided into two parts, . That is  a fact and it would be foolish to ignore it," “‘Une part  cannot expand without detriment fo the” othér, - That,  also, is a fact, and it would be dangerous ‘to over:  look it. All of us who are concerned in this East:  West adventure must therefore do everything we can  to diminish as far as possible the extènt of this -  division and the militancy of thls disagreement, so  that both parties, mutually respecting their irreduci-  ble differences; may:peacefully coexist, maintaining  the present balance for the good of the whole world,
16.8 -: Would Unesco be able to assume the tremen-  dous historical responsibility of such a mission? -  Would not the magnitude of the task be out of all  proportion to.the yery.limited resources avatlable  for performing it? - Would it not perhaps be Inordinate  presumption on Unesco's part; beyond the limite of  the Organization's competence? i. « :
16,9 The second Major Project concerns the  extension of primary education in Latin America.  ” From the theoretical standpoint, it cannot fail to win  approval, but its practical implementation calls for  very serious reflection, - -: :« -
16,10. The project has oyerlooked that more than  thirty million Indidns, the original stock of the  native; traditional hihabitdnts, accustomed for  generations to suffer and hope is'vaiñ, dwell in our  American continent from Alaska to Patagunta;’ they  constitute the national mujority in certain countries  and exercise a strong demographic pressure in others:  . for four hundred years, they have been living in the  most deplorable conditions, quite unworthy of human  beings; they have been plundered of their lands; in   PLENARY  certain regions, they work like serfs, under the .  oppressions of a feudal regime, vegetating, having  motion but having forgotten even how to think,  starving and destitute, Before thinking of teaching  these thirty million outcasts how to read and write,  it 1s urgently necessary, fellow delegates, to reha-  bilitate them as human beings, to restore the lands  which were wrested from them and to give them back  their dignity as individuals, of which they have been  deprived for many centuries, so that the Indian will  cease to be what he is still foday - à farm animal,  In Latin America, it is impossible to leave out of .  account either the land or the Indians, for that would  be tantamount to the absurdity of trying to abolish  ‘ our past history, our present and our future,
16,11 The various States which are tackling this  problem are endeavouring, .s0 far as their limited  financial resources allow, to Improve the Indians’  living conditions. . We ave alao aware of Unesco's  small-scale projects in certain Latin American  countries. It veems, however, that the extraordinary  magnitude of this fundamental problem is not properly  ‘appreciated, . It is as though efforts wé.e being made  to irrigate a vast expanse of thirsty desert with afew  drope of water. Co Co
16,12 Technical éssistance to certain countries li  which arid lands are found is the third so-called  "Major" Project, which, as the United States delegate  also pointéd out so rightly in one of his speeches, is  rather vague in content and uncertain in policy. This  fault should . be rectified and there is still time for  this to be done, Ca.
16.13 It is indeed a marvellous thing to transform  the desért into à green paradise, buf it should be  asked whether this wonderful work rightly tall to  our Organization, which was set up fo fostèr educa- ;  tion, science and culture, or whether it atiould not  rather be the concern of other equally important  international agencles, which, unlike our own, were  established for the express purpose of studying énd  solving the problems of agricultural production,  agrarian economy, and the world's food, It should -  also be considered whether the substantial sums  which have been allocated fo this project in Unesco's  Proposed Programme and Budget for 1959-1960,  totalling more than $700,000, are not an unnecessary  drain on our very limited budgetary resources, ..  geelng that there are other technical international  organizations qualified to perform this excellent  work, , -
16,14 Certain related observations, which need to  be emphasized on this great occasion, must also be  made with regard to Unesco's {nternal organization,  which suffers from quite a number of shortcomings,  some of them serious - mistaken, inadequate or -  wrongly directed activities - that-iavé-been jusiitiably  criticized by other. speakers at previous meetings, .
16,15. . Authoritative spokesmen have already ob-.  served from this rostrum that the geographical dis-  tribution among the Organization's administrative  staff and its governing bodies still leaves much to  be desired, Others have taken a stand on the volume  and nature of tbe budgetary expenditure, some of  which is considsred to be excessive or unnecessary,  The delegate of the United States of America rightly  pointed out the disadvantages of such dissipation of  resources, the imperfect co-ordination of the  REETIRAGS
189  xn  various projects, and the too often trivial and in-  suffictently concentrated methods adopted for carry-  ing out the work,
16.16 Unesco's bureaucratic inflation, it I miy usé  such a term, is already an open secret and should be  checked with strict regard to equity, The Secretariat  machinery alone absorbs more than half the contribu-  tions made by Member States, the rest - in fact still  further reduced - being used for the decentralized  execution of the various programmes and projects,
16,17 Nor would it serve any purpose to conceal  the general lack of confidence in the competitive  recruitment of administrative staff, which detracts  from the Organization's prestige. , oo
16, 18 | A less libéral policy should be adopted with  regard to what might be célled "official visits" on the  trips which cértain staff members and employees of  the Organization all too frequently make, at Unesco's  expeice, to different countries and continents, without  real advaniage to the Organization, These are ail the  more unné(éssary as, in each of the countries con-  cerned, thé > 18'a National Commission for Unesco  or perman: t offièlals of the Organization providing  laison bel yéon the latter's Headquarters and the  bodies directljf responsible for the implementation  of the technical projects in eich region.
16,19 I willingly admit that Unesco's administrative  staff deserves encouragement; its work, however,  will be more frultful if each of the staff mémbers  concerned thinks less of his own learnirig and personal  merits - réal in dome cases; Imaginary in others -  than of the nature of the mission entrusted to him,  the position in which'he {s, serving rather than to be’  served, and of the obligations and responsibilities  which both impose upon him... , Co.
16,20 Ary steps whith the Director-General muy  take to remedy these internal shortcomings, which,  I repeat, are malters of public knowledge, will  certalnly bé appreciated ard ‘applauded. ©
16,21. Unesco, ladies and gentlemén; is an asso-  clation of nattons, an internatignaf beacon, a mobili-  zation of épiritual forceg for, the promotion ‘eZ better  understanding and the improvement of cultural and  living standards, It is the fociis of out: highest hopes  and an historic opportunity in the great adventure of  the mind, Let is not miss this opportunity nor”  disappoint the hopes placed in oùr Organization by all  the peoples. Do not let Unesco bé a rigid monolith,  indissociable from traditional systers;. let it, like |  a senaliive antenrik, catch the rhythm 6f the few ideas  "and the new achleveménis demanded by the peoples.  Let not this great hope for mankind be thwarted, … -  Above the political disagreements, which are natural  and understandable inthe coûrgé of the world's”  evolution, let tha éusence of the noble jdeuls we  share be preserved and reaffirmed through the .  honouring of man, the revitalization of human rights  and the creative power of the individual,
16,22 Fellow delegates, it lies with us to accom- |  plish this task for the good of all the peoples of the  world, This is our historic mission, and also our  responsibility,  The meeting rose at 11. 30 p, m.