12 November 1958, at 3,45 p,m.  President; Mr. A, N, KUZNETSOV {Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  CONTENTS  General discussion of the Director-Gereral's Reports ‘and  of the Proposed Programme and Budget for 1959-1960  (continued); Speechés by the delegates of Peru, Indonesia,  Morocco and Cuba, the representative of the Organization  of American States, the delegates of Ethiopia and Nica-  ragua,  GENERAL DISCUSSION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL'S  REPORTS AND OF TRE PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND  BUDGET FOR 1958-1868 {eoniitaed)
1. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian);  Ladies and gentlemen, today's'meeting is now  open, We are continuing our general discussion,  I will now call upon Mr, Garcia Calderdn, delegate  of Peru.
2,1 Mr; GARCIA CALDERON ÿ (Peru) (Translation  from’ the Spanish):  Mr, Président, ladies and genlleiien, lisa very  great’ pleasure for me to speak {n-Unésco's newly '-  completed building, which is destined to be the centre  of universal gultuie Years ago,’ following | the advice  of my estéemed friend Torres Bodet; 1 wroté an  article entitled "Actualité de l'Unesco" for a Paris -  journal. I'could not then foresee that Unesco would  advance and expand until, today, we see met together  here the representatives of 81 ‘countries.’
2.2 Ina world unhinged and tormcnted by thé per-  petual threat of a universal cataclysm, this institu-  tion of ours has undertaken thé difficult task of giving  brotherly assistance to underdeveloped éountries  while remaining respectful, ‘everywhère; of the  different’ Fellgtons; races, and agé-old customs,  Togethér with the thrée-theologiéal virtues, it exem-  plifies the three splendid words of Francets motto:  Liberty, ‘Equality, Fraternity. ‘To thése, solidarity  should be added. Our institution must eschew polities,  its programme being exclusively cultural, Realizing  that beauty should be attendant upon charity, it has,  with unexpected success, adopted the "Musée Imagin-  aire" of my famous friend, André Malraux, and  brings-to all parts of (he globe perfect reproductions  of world art, Is not this love of beauty ore of the  foremost needs of Man, who does not live by bread.  alone? 2.
2,'3 Have you noticed the flowers on balconies in  the poor ‘quarters of our big cities? Flowers are the  luxury of the poor, whose sensitivity seems well
212  the representative of the League of Arab States,  and the delegates of Jordan, Colombia and the Philippines’ 212  conveyed by the words’ of the English poet: "A thing  of beauty is a joy for ever", - Without joy, ‘mental  rest, and réal brotherhood; life’ ‘would not be worth  living, Unesco hopés to found an ‘earthly paradise  where Cain and Abel will ‘be bound by a pact of friend-  ship, What the socialists of (hé beginning of the  Nineteenth century, disciples ot thè prophets of Israel,  were all dreaming of, a thing which then seemed ’  Utopian, can now. become a reality, In (his connexion,  I would recall’ the’ names of two of my “compatriots  and the part they have played: Flora Tristén, the  apostle of French socialism of 1840, and her nephew,  Paul Gaugiin, who was, the precursor of modern art,  As an onluoker ina civilization obsessed by ‘money,  he was considered proud and unruly, The fact was  that the industrial Europe’ of that time had subordinated  spiritual values to its’ anxiety to amass wealth - a  préoccupation which my compatriot stigmatized in such  impressive books as “Promenades dans Londres",  Did not both of them have in their veins the rebellious  blood of iiberators like Bollvar,. who, at the Congress  of Panama, wanted to found an amphictyonic league of  peoples? Did we not set out enthusiastically to fuse  three races -'Whité,' Indian and Black -'a task which  seemed Utopian and yet is today « a reality’ in our  our America?-.. : :
2,4 Flora Tristan; the" Women à Messiah" as she was  then called; had the word "'sélfdarity"! added to her  epitaphj and this word might: also be engraved ori the  portal of Unesco, ‘We are all interdependent = we  are all brothers. in this.task of building a better world,  of abolishing hate, which destfoys, . and fostering ‘love  and faith, which move mountains. « 1am happy that  such ai’ organization: Should ‘have chosen to dwell in -  Paris, this great city,” standing at ‘the crossroads of  world culture, which,’ ‘as ité‘motto proclatms, never  founders and does not’ yearn in‘vain for Picasso's  dove, which bears the green branch of hope and calms  the tears of an anxious humanity,
2.5 My country, which, since the beginning of the  Republic, has always upheld compulsory arbitration  and settlement, is today a favourite home for men of   PLENARY MEETINGS  goodwill, . . Unesco stdhds for absolute respect for  human dignity, harmony among the three diferent’. .  races, and aid in poverty and disaster; as in the Cuzco’  earthquake some years ago, Despite its imperfections,  Unesco means the distribution not only.of food but also ’  of beautiful {hings, and the transformation of a period  of decline into an age of constant endeavour, in which  work will not be considered as a misfortune or a pun-  ‘lshment, but as a profitable way of using human. \ energy;  it also stands for a ‘much-needed rest, like the ’'otium  of the Ancients, a pause marked by serenity and  optimism between two. spells of work," ‘Only thus can  we hope to avoid the universal suicide predicted by a  German philosopher, the pessimism of the Italian  .poet who asserted the infinite vanity of all things, or  acceptance of the awesome statement in one of the  Buddha's sermons on Nirvana that action is at the root  of all human sorrows, ;
2,6. Unesco is active, fraternal and universal; it  is a ship in which we are proud to set sail for a mar-  vellous destination,
3, The PRESIDENT (Translation fr ore : the Russian):  I thank the delegate of Peru and I call upon the  delegate of Indonesia, Mr, Tiroprodjo,
4.1 Mr. TIROPRODJO (Indonesia) (Translation  from the French): .  Mr, President, fellow delegates,’ ladles and  gentlemen, - It is a great honour and pleasure for the  Indonesian delegation to be able to attend the tenth  session of the General’ Conferencé of Unesco in this  magnificént and historic city of Paris, a city which,  throughout the fenturies, has always been one of the *  -séats of West£fn culture and civilization. This splen-  . did butlding hich houses Unesco's Headquarters is  also symbc {ical of Western thought and technology;  it could, - however, be embellished and made more .  colourful by a larger contribution from Eastern  culture and art, *_ Th
4.2 For our. part, we should be happy to offer : you,  on behalf of the Indonesian nation, and as a modest  contribution to the adornment of Unesco's permanent  Headquarters, an Indonesian painting and a specimen  of Indonesian wood’ sculpture; These two works are  on their way to Paris now,
4,3 Since the last session of the General Conference  of Unesco, .two countries, Ghana and Malaya, have  joined the Organization; Further, three countries,  Kuwait, ‘the Federation of the West Indies and Somali-  land under Itallan administration, have just been  admitted to Associate Membership. I should like to  convey my cordial and sincere good wishes to the  delegations of these new Members and Associate  Members,
4.4 When we come ‘here, ‘trom a ‘atetaht land, situated  in the tropics, and with'a very. different climate’ ‘and  culture, our first impression is that the day-té-day  life of Westerners {s on thé whole different from that  of Indonesfans and other Eastern. ‘peoples, This view  is of course baséd solely ‘on superficial observation,  because as soon as we examine customs more closely,  apart from the industrial progress and scientific  achlevements of thé Western world, we soon discover’  that the civilizations of the Occident and the Orlent  have many features and trends in common. These  are doubtless due to certzin identical human reactions
4,8  xy  to natural ‘quetioultles, . Without going into the matièr  more thoroughly,’ We can see ‘clearly that this stimulus  ‘has always resulted {iy cultural creation inthe broadest  sense, that is, ‘in the application ôt Man's mental and  physical powers tô the solution of problems imposed  by Nature, in order to b cure Hving conditions worthy  of the human race,”
4,6: But "1¢€ à us-not torget that Naturé is twofold, -’  including fot only. the phenoména we percelve around  us, but'âlso Man hiniself, as a physicals and spiritual  being, Thüs Man's'facultiés and powers are not'use-  ful to hit merely’ as'means of cultivating the outer  world; ‘they are in themselves capable of béing per-  tected and adapted to suit Man's constantly changing  position in the world,
4,6 There are thus’ two different as ects of the con-  cept of culture; ‘on the oné hard, it'in olves all human  activities for the production and distribution of material  asséta (agricultural, stock-breeding, trade, industry);  the other ‘aspect comprises Man's efforts {6 develop  his {deals of beauty, ‘goodness and truth through  science, ‘literature and the arts, Now ‘¢ulture,’ in  this sense, has existed at all times and fn all countries  since the bith of the human race, “During the’ last  century,” culture and civilization’ rose to extraordinary  heights, It is regrettable, however,’ thaï Mari, pene-  trating the secrets of Nature with his great scientific  discoveries, does riot achieve the samé results when  he applies his inexhaustible knowledge ‘and rescurces  to the service of humanity, ° *Socfal and ‘economic  conflicts between groups of ‘people still exist fn the  world. Moreover,’ we see that {ite has become almost  impossible in underdeveloped’ ‘Countries; ’ “However, it  is not for us to’ blame anyone, becalise- as ‘méinbers ‘  of Unescô - whose primary objective’ is to seek, by  scientific méthods, : té {improve | living « conditions and  secure’ greater mutual appréciation, éf'himan'values -  it 1s our specific duty to solve the sclentific, educa-  tional and cultural probletis of mankind, ‘
4,1 Recently onc'ôf the ideals of the United Nations  became a reality -  “the utilization of ‘atomle énergy -  for pedceful purposes,’ ‘Let us hopé that this energy  will be sed for the beriefit of all fen ‘everywhere and  will improve {heir living conditions, ‘And let us also  hope that Unesco will have the power ‘and strength to  put into'practice the noble ideals which it has go  loudly proclaimed at all the sessions of its General  Conferenice, ! am convinced that’ Unesco will succeed  in translating its objectives, as ‘set down in the pro-  posed programme and budget, into’ action.‘ “And we  are really grateful for the sincerity and great com-  petence with which thé Director-General and his  colléagues have stated the wishes, ‘proposals and hopes  of Member States, doing so clearly and precisely,  with'a view to the effictent conduct of human affairs  and to thé use of available resources tor the welfare  of mankind,  ‘If we state our ideats clearly in accordance  with Unéscots ‘principles, we are obligéd td recognize  that humanity must live as one familÿ. Only when we’  have becothe really imbued with this feeling of unity  and brotherhood shall we be able to maké the ‘sacris  ficus required in order to help the néedy, the ‘poor,  the outcasts, .all those who suffer in the world today,  With regard to this indispensable unity of all nations  as members of a single family, I regret, Mr. Presl-  dent, that the People's Republic of China, with its   xiv
600 million inhabitants, that is,.24% or one-quarter -  of the world's population, should still be déprivéd of  representation in Unesco, There may be certain poli-  t{cal reasons for this curious situation, but an educa-  tional, scientific and cultural organization like Unesco  _ought to be above such considerations. , ;.  ‘4,9 With reference to the proposed programme and  budget, my delegation would like to support the pro-  posals for the adyançement of education, scientific.  research, cultural activities and technical assistance,  I should, . however, like to take this opportunity to make  a few comments, especially with regard to the Major  Project on Mutual Appreciation of Eastern and West-  ern Cultural Values, .Owing to technical improves: ’  ments in the field of mass communication, most  Eastern countries are recelving a constant flow of the  products of Western culture; this not only, contributes  to uniformity, . standardization’ and a certain ease of.  movement in several spheres of human activity, but  also fosters appreciation of Western cultural, values,’  On the other hand, we cannot say that there is any.  true appreniation, of Eastern- culturai.values, except  among certain Orientalists, We can only hope that  the schigvements of the Eastern world in art, culture  and religion will receive the consideration they  deserve in Unescots publications, FI
4,10 Itisa wellknown fact that indonesia, for. cen-  turies,. ‘has had close economic; political and cultural  relations ‘with the, outside world, It has been inspired  and influenced - and ‘continues to lie 50 today - by  many different ‘ideas, which it assimilates. in an  active and creative way,” It has never withdrawn into  itself, but has always taken part, .since prehistoric  times: in ‘the general progress of mankind, First  of all, there were the evenis which affected all South  East Asia during | e Jost migrations « of, whole nee.  ism; isrwards it Was affected by the expansion’ of .  Islam and ‘finally by he introduction of Western Euro:  pean culture turing the last decades. Even in the pre-  historic age, Indone slals (rends were determined and  conditioned by events which were occurring over very  widely separated areas and which, had their influence  on the early histry. of mankind and civilization,  indonesia s cer, ainly. an ‘interesting subject for study  and deserves te ‘be given every attention in the  proposed 5 programme. .
4,11 With reference to technical aspistance -a  problem surely of considerable Importance, in parti-  cular for underdevéloped countries - 1 should like to  point out that it is a matter of urgency to provide in-  creased, tacilities for the ‘purchase of equipment and  to offer ‘assistance and subventions of all kinds, We  hope that the Expanded Programme of- Technical Assis-  tance will enable Member States to achleve positive  and practical results in the various spheres of Unesco's  work, In this connéxion, we belleve that priority  should be given to education and to assistance to: …  research in the natural sciences, In our efforts to  develop our educational system, we have many ob-;  stacles and difficulties to overcome, However, real-  \zing the. {mportance of education in the, werk of build-  ing up our country, we have begun with pilot projects  in the tield of compulsoiry education, Great enthusiasm  has been aroused by the law introducing compulsory
214  “the world talks. peace, but thinks war,    PLENARY MEETINGS  education ; : It 19 not alwiiys easy. “to” enforce It;: however,  owlng to lack of loçal séhools and to child labour in the  most economically backward districts, where children  have to help their familles in the fields or at market,  The Jack of travel facilities for inspectors responsible -  for ensuring that the law is enforced is another diffi.  culty, We should therefore welcome the establishment  of an international fund for education, science and  culture, which might help us to solve our problems by  granting us loans and subventions, 3
4,12 . As regards higher education, wé' have seven’  universities. with a total of 65 faculties and some
33, 000 students. In‘community education, inspectors,  with real authority, Have been assigned to many districts  iñ order to launch’ projects ‘And co-ordinate and re-  organize community PR etvities as part of a programme  of rural development. This close collaboration has,  in large measure, helped to clarify the prospects of  community school activities and define their objectives )  more specifically, -
4,13 As regards répresentation in the Unesco Secre-  tariat, I would point out that, hitherto, no Indonesian  has been appointed to a post in the Directoi category,  or indeed to any post in the Secretariat, ‘I earnestly  hope that the Executive Board and the Diréctor-General  will give consideration to this important matter,
4,14 Mr, Président, béfore’ I réturn to my seat,  allow me to siy a few ‘words about the candidature of  Mr, KusnotoSetyodiwiryo for a seat on ‘Unesco's  Executive Bodrd,: : The announcement of his candida-  ture has been prinled and distributed to Member States,  However, to our. great regret; we; ‘are now “obliged to  inform you that, owing to Mr: Setyodiwiryo's heavy  dutles as Head of the Central Institute for Natural -  Science Research and the Botanical’ Gardéris of-Indonesla,  and as professor. at the University. of Katermadda, and  member of the:governing body of the Indonesian Science  Council, hé has been obliged to withdraw his caridida--  ture, ‘which is now replaced by ibat'of Mr, Soebroto,  The latter, already a member of the Executive Board  of Unesco and Vice-Chairnian of our National Commis-  sion, 1s well informed about Unéscots’ activities, He  has been a member of all the Indonesian’ delegations to  the General Conferences of Unesco and has always ;  played an active part ir persüading various institutions  in our country to co-operate, .in ône way or another,  in the attainment of: Unesco's aims and objectives.
4,15 In conclusion, I should like to convey, - onmy -  own behalf and on that of the entire Indonésian delega-  tion, our warmest greetings to the delegates of all  the other countries hére répresented and express my  earnest hope that the spirit of unity transcending the  diversity of national views - a spirit which is that of  the Indonesian people - will also inspire this General  Conference, so that it may take another great step  forward towards the achievement of Unescots lofty  objectives, ,
4,16 ' Mr. President, T should like. to lay  emphasis on this ‘spirit’ of. unity transcending  diversity by quoting to you a ‘sentence from the -  address given by President Soekarno during the  cereniony at which he received the degree of  Doctor honoris causa at. the University of  Michigan on 27 May. 1956: "Today much of  : Let  us all resolve to talk peace and think  peace,   PLENARY
8, - The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):
1 thank the delegaté of Indonesia, and I call upon  the delegate of Morocco, Mr, El Fassi,
61 Mr, EL FASS! (Morocco) (Translation from  the French):  Mr, President, fellow delégates, ladies and  gentlemen, my first duty is to transmit té you the  greetings of our Sovereign, His Majesty Mohanimed  V, King of Morocco, and of His Government, together  with their good wishes for the success of the tenth  session of the General Conference of Uneésco,” You.  are all aware of the keen Interest faken by our coun-  try in this great institution and of the enthusiasm  withr{. D it 13 co-operating in Unéséo’s work,
6.2 ' "(fully endorse ali the {ributes paid by previous  speañers, who have expressed our gratitude to  Frai«e.and the City of Paris for their generosity in  making It possible to build this ‘ temple of knowledge,  mutualunderstanding among thé peuples, and peace,
6.3 It must be added that this fine achiévermient -  would not have been possible without thé unremitting  efforts of the Director- General, his assistants, all  the members of the Secretariat, the Headquartèrs  Commitiee (of which Morocco is a member) and all  the architects, artists and workers to whom we owe  this masterpiece of modern art and technology and  to whom our warmest thanks are due, -
6.4 1lwishto greet the new States admitted at this  session as Members and Associate Members; my |  hope for the latter, and for all peoplés that do riot  yet enjoy their freedoni,” is that they will accede to  independence and ‘thus ‘able to take their place in  our Organization dé full Menibers, - No natiori, ‘great -  or small, should be éfclüded from Unesco... All the ‘  great religions and’ ideologies aim'at universality; =  but they clash with’ one: another, and Ko fail to attala  that end; Unesco, ‘on the other hand, by’ respecting ;  all religions and Ideologies, should be able to attain  it, It 18: within this’ Organization t hat auch’ agreement  should be Easiest to reach and Unesco's greatést  Major Project ought to be sincere understanding  amongst all th peoples of the world,
6.5 ‘Mr, President, t'ailuded à’ moment ago to  thé enthusiasm with which we aré co- operating in °  Unescots work; let me miéntiori some aspects [24 tthis  co-operation,”
8.6 ‘Thanks to the’ Hé, ‘ét Unesco experts and to  the seminñars which Mérotéan educätors-hayé been  able to attend In Unesco centres, our Governinent     centres, ° This work oh ahi in collabération ‘with the  "Ligue marocaine de Î'éducailon de base et di la  lutte contre Danalphabétisme", in whith generous-  hearted men and women have madé it their task to  eradicate the evils of ignorarice and filiteracy. This  League publishes a perlodical for new literates -'  an activity cotresponding {o one of the projects in  Uneaco's programme (draft resolution 1,52 (b)),  “The publication of this weekly, entitled "Manar al  Maghrib" (The Magrab Lighthouse), is very costly;
215  MEETINGS  in perth thé first Regional § Contérence’ Sy  XIV  but thanks to the adoption by our Government of the  Lakhdar system of characters developed in Morocco,  the printéra’ work will become easier and less expen-  sive, LIE
6,7 In view of the satisfactory results ot {his pro-  gramme, carrjed out in Morocco in collaboration with  Unesco, I feel Justified in proposing to you; as the  delegate of India has already done, that we plan tor  a Major hing eating with the anti- lterdey cam-  National Commisalo s for Unesict , This Conference  was opened under the presidenéy of His Majesiy Mo-  hammed V at thé beginning ¢ ‘of thid'y year "and was  attended by Mr, Veronése,’ ‘Chairman of the Executive  Board, the Direclor-General, Dr; Evans, thé Assis-  tant Diréctér- -General, Mr, Thomas, and the Chief ‘  of the Bureau. of Rélations Wit Member ‘States, Mr.  Galindo Pohl,’ IE” an honour’ fot me to thank once  again’ the distinguishé mémbers‘of the various Arab  delegations and observers of Meditérranesn | States:  who the our Invitation; and almost äit of whom  I have had he pleasure’ of ‘meeting ‘again ‘at this tenth  session of our General’ Conference, The resolutions’  of this Reglonal Conférence i dt Fez were published  in’ Arabic and French and those of them directly con-  cerning Unesco. will be subinitted to ‘the various com-  missions of this tenth session of the General Confer -  ence by a spokesman of the Co-ordinating Committee  of Arab National Commissions,’ set up at the Fez  large square ata ad ‘prés ded, over oy] Mr: ‘Bou-  cette, ‘Under-Secretary ‘ot Staté for Forelgn Affairs,  This is arn eftéctive way of ‘giving’ publicity to Unesco  and the noble aims which il plréies.
6.10 In céñnexion with ‘the Fast- -West Major Projéct  (and also in conformity’ with the spirit of draft’reso-  lution 4, 81), 1 had the Honour, last February, of’  accepting an invitation from the” gréat Friedrich ~  Ebert Foundation'In Bonn, Germany; to glve a lec-  ture on Morocco's poliifcal and Cultural history.  Exchanges of this kind, which wé continually’ encou-  rage in Morocco by inviting lecturers from various  countries to come to us, effectively contribute to  mutual appreciation of the cultural values of all  countries,
6.11 ‘In éollaboratiori with Unesco,’ Arabic trans- ’  lations of two works published | by our Organization  are now being issued in Mordèco, 207
8.12  A'soclai sélentlst, sent to Morocco by Unéséo  at the request’ ‘of our Government, hés recently pre-  pared a report on oùr plan to found a soctal science  institute at thé Faculty of Letters in Rabat. Other  experts on teéhnicäl education and planning are soon  to leave for Mérocco.’ .
6.13 Mr, President, 1 do not belleve, as it has’  been stated ôn this rostrum, that descriptions of the  main cultural achievements of each country are   XIV  superfiuous here, : Quite the contrary because, in my.  opinion, one of Unescots principal aime is to promote  such achieyements and stlénulaté healthy competition’  in this regard among the various countries. The sus-  tained attention with which we follow, these desorip-  tions shows how interested we are in thus comparing  our experience and ini the results which have been  achieved - some of them successtyl, others leas so,
6.14 should therefore like to tell you that, since  its accession to independence, Morocco has made  very dress ‘progress in the promotion of educa-  tion, . Hundreds of thousands of children have been  enrolled, thousands’ of schoolrooms have been built,  both Kt the Governmgny'and by the local people them-  selves, ‘who haye responded with indescribable enthu-  siasm to the appeal lauriched by His Majesty and the  Government in favour of education; hundreds of  teachers are being trained annually, ‘and it is here  that Morocco most needs your aséistance, Our  Government's action is ow entirely centred on this  task of training Yesdhoëa ta al fle] “and ye are .,  counting a great deal on the extension of the, tectinical  asdstance with which, 1 hcpe, “Unesco will provide us.
6,16 In regard to thésé school buildings, Morocco  hasbeen experimenting, in this matter for several .  years, in order to produce a type of school which will  mee} all éducational requirements and cost as little  as possible, It has communicated the result of its  experiments to the International Bureau of Education.  in Geneva and to the International Uñion of Architects  - bodies of which it 1s'a member and in whose work  it takes part, . ea Le 0...
8.16. A recommendation of the XXth International  Conference on Publié Education held in Geneva in  July 1957, concerning the establishnient, with Unesco's  asdstance, ‘of an In lernattonal ‘school building, centre,  was approved by the’ Commitee on'School Buildings  of the International Union of A¥chitetts, at its meeting  held, at the invitation of thé Mordccan ‘Government,  in Rabat last February, We hope that Unesco will  make it possible to se} up this centre,
6.17 - Classical and technical secondary education  has also developed in Morocco, Some thirty State  and private secondary schools have been founded over  the past three years, Engineering schools will sooh  begin to operate, aiid a preparatory school has already  been opened, Many fellowships are granted to students  pursuing their studies elther in Morocco or abroad.  Scientific studies are particularly encouraged. A  secondary teachers! training college has been function-  ing in Rabat for two'years,. . LL 1 .  ‘6,18 The crowning achievement in this field has  been the founding of the modern Méroccan University,  opened in Séptember 1957 by His Majesty Mohammed  V at a ceremony attended by many university leaders  from various countries, Morocco has thus renéwed  its traditions; for, in addition to its famous Kairouan  University in Fez, the oldest in the world, whose  syllabuses and methods hive been brought up to date,  it now has a higher educational institution which  already includes thrée faculties, those of science,  law aud letters. A group of students! hostels has  been built and its extension, later on, is included in  our Government's plans for providing educational  facilities, ; Ca
6,19 Mr, President, in the course of my remarks,  I have touched upon certain aspects of the Proposed
216     PLENARY MEETINGS  Programme and Budget for 193971960, Ido dt want  to go Into full details hèré;. but 1 ghould like to point  out that, in the Major, Project on Scientific Research  on Arid Lands, no funds have beén provided for the  campaign against locusts, - Now the Moroccan Govern:  ment spends thousands ¢f millions of francs every  year to stop the migratory locusts,” commonly known  as grasshoppers, in their devastating adyance towards  Europe, Substantial sums should be provided, not.  only to finarice research designed to locate the hreed-  ing areas of migratory logusts, but also in order to .  improve methods of countering the invasions of these  most harmful of all insects, ‘which are among the  worél scourges of humanity, -... * 112 i.
6,20 Generally speaking, moreover, the sums,  allocated to this Major Project on arid zones ($991,303)  - are, I believe, Inadequate, It is, of Gourse, true that  research is only beginning; ‘and that thôüght must  mainly be given to making increased provision for the  years to come, when it is hoped thal research pro-  grammes will be developed and extended, -.  - of perfect understanding among all peoples, an era of  true peace and brotherhood, in which all men will be   * PLENARY  ‘free and ‘able to enjoy the benefita ot science. and  material well-being, . All civilized men should make it  a point of honour no longer to tolerate the sight of  their fellow men being morally, culturally or physio-  ally degraded.. These are the real aims of Unesco,  If we direct all our activities towards them, we may  then consider ourselves worthy to belong to this human  race whose present ambition is to reach the immensi-  ties of outer space,  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  I thank the delegate of Morocco and I call upon the  delegate of Cuba, Mr,. Ferrara Marino,
8.1 Mr, FERRARA. MARINO (Cuba) (Translation  from the Spanish);  ; Mr, President, fellow delegates, the, Inauguration  of this new Headquarters by the President of the French  Republic has given us increased confidence in the  Organization's future,: which promises to be both .  serene and productive: The Djrector-General's. Report  and the Proposed, Programme and Budget show that  we aré mapping out the regular stages. through which  we must pass, without bustle. or anxiety, and that we  shallreach our goal,. The nlightened and effi¢ient  . way in which our Organization is administered ylelds  “ better results every day and proves to us, that the  foundations which we haye laid in the realm of ideas  are as firm as this great edifice in whi¢i we are meet-  ing, The Executive Board, which, under the Constitu- ,  tion, was Intended to be a'mere link between the  General Conference and the Secretariat, has, in the  course of time,, acquired well-defined functions and  become the main axis’ around which the Organization  revolves, And finally, the Director-General,  Dr, Luther Evans, who | has been largely responsible  tor these achievements, has submitted to us a very.  promising programme for the next two, years which  testifies to his sound common, sense and intelligence,  Let me take this opp: :>tunity to, éongratulate. him on  the good work he has done during the period of office  to which we eleèted him several years ago, With these  results, we feel confident in the future, all the more so  now that we are working under the sponsorship of our  governments and are receiving encouragement from  the intellectuals of s0 mary nations, Unesco is now  the cultural centre of the world, not because of the  benefits it brings to certain States or to specific  scientific organizations and educational services, but -  because of the social bonds which At is ¢reating, through  science and education, among the peoples. of the world,  We should all ‘congratulate, one another and congratulate  those who have so greatly contributed to this work,  To disagree on account of some minor ditference would  be a regréltablé sign of unfairness or ignorance, For  "those of us who have followed all this hard work, the  budget now before us téems meagre | and the allocation  of fixed percentages. a very, good thing,” because, in  any institution Et tor directing and  necessarily riumerous and specialized, 5
8:2. Fellow ‘delegates, it is really up to us to make  the final effort, Unesco is on the right road. ‘We  must be equal to its spiritual needs, 1 feel no doubts  about you, but Ido, ‘eel certain doubts about myself  and about the atmosnhere which more or less prevails
217  MEETINGS X1iv  everywhere, Ifee} uneasy about the paychological reac-  tionto the contrast whichis always apparent when old  institutions are facéd with new social needs; I fear the.  vacillations of these transition periods, Four centuries  of violent nationalism in Europe ‘overshadow us, Two  .destructive' -:nay, barbarous - wars have domiñated  the: first halt of this century, : A theoretical conflict  over national economic systems has made it even.  more difficult for a sense of the unity of mankind to  develop; and instead of taking the form of noble.  rivalry, this conflict is following the astounding course  of the religious wars of the Sixteenth century, which  served political ambitions rather than religion !tself,  But the goodwill of one generation can have more  effect than the painful echoes of the past and the  fleeting present;
8,3 .. Facing these problems,’ which’ can be solved if  the nations and their governments bring intelligence  and goodwill to bear upon them, we recognize certain  major neéds; a just peace, true and complete freedom  everywhere, a spirit of brotherhood in a smaller world  and better living conditions for all. .
8,4 In order to promoté this trend in history, inter-  national institutions, including our own, have been  created with the ultimate purpose of securing unity  among men; dedpite their diversity, and a feeling of  universal brotherhood; with maxitaum'individual  freedom, But any institution; however perfect, is an  "umbra sine corpore" - or rather a body without a  soul - if it has no spiritual stimulus; it must have a  lofty idea of what is right and good and belleye in the  principle of fair shares, which means that, all  selfishness and arrogance, being Est 2sidi, every man  receives what he is entitled to, Notwithstanding the  precudents I have mentioned, our age has forged the  tools for the work which, lies ahead of us. :
8.5 Unesco is the least political of these, international  institutions and the most important among, them in the  realm of ideas, - Its obligations centre round the noble .  task of raising the moral and intellectual standards of  education throughout the world, It is absolutely impera-  tive that we should work efficiently in this field, but  we must also remain within the broad limits laid down  for us by our Constitution, Let us make every effort  to create an atmosphere of peace and sécurity through  scientific and cultural development, . Let us encourage  activities which may serve to increase ‘mutual sympathy  among the nations, irrespective of geographical boun-  daries and differences of creed, race or national  economy. Thé’ ‘alms of education, the progress of .  science, the ideals of art and a steadily increasing  respect for the human personality are the things that  we are working for, a rich field for your abilities.  The differences in opinion which these objectives may  cause should not divide us into two camps, but rather  unite us through auspicious competition. Let us not  depart from this common ground which diverging  traditions, prejudicé and conflicting interests have not  invaded.
8,6 This assembly is no ‘place for. unnecessary dis-  ‘putes. Majorities or minorities, left-wing or right-  wing parties, are the heritage of national political  systems and are unsuited to our intellectual mission.
8.7 This tenth session of the General Conference,  attended by 80 many distinguished men, must be held  in the most favourable conditions possible, A vast  programme has been submitted for our consideration.   XIV PLENARY  Let us examiné. Lt with sympâthetié attention and be.’  moved only by the desire to take the right decisions,  Let us consider each case with i an open mind and with  sincerity, and let there bs no thréats, opén or velled,  Let us welcome with enthusiast thé renaissance of the  East and the hopeful nes that comes to us from Africa.  Let us greet all fresh’ progress joyfully, wherever it  may come from, since the happiness’ of us ‘all is the-  direct consequence of improvement in any one of our  countries,‘ Let Us'consider one another with sympathy  and respect; using rio harsh words, in the hope that  what ls really right’ will be doñe when Equity, in its  own time, - delivérs is final decision, Above all, let  us not oceupy this rostrum; which hope has sanctified,  in order to's Bpread ‘propaganda that would shake the  confidence of our peoples, +
8.8 ~ The delegation of the "Republic of Cuba, over  which I hivé the honour to'preside, is prepared to vote -  enthusiastically for the Programme and. Budget pre-  sented by thé Director-General, together with the  Executive Board's comments, in the assurance that  this tenth session of the General Conference will, in  the annals of Unesco, -stand out as one of the most -  profitable that has been held until now. : The States -'  which have responded to this summons and the distin-  guished men who are sitting before me are a sufficient  guarantee that such hopes will be realized;
9. The PRESIDENT {Translation from the Ruslan):  ‘1 thank the venerable spokesman for the Cuban dele-  gation. ! should like, with respect, to mention that he  is, it seems, one of the oldest delegates at our Confer-  ence. 1 now call upon the representative of the Organ-  ization of American States, Mr, Nannetti,
10,1 Mr, NANNEŸTI jorganteatton: of Amerlcan  States) (Translation from thé Spanish):-  Mr. President, ‘ladies afid gentlemen, it 16 an hon-'  our for me to bring you the greetings ‘of the Organiza-’  tion of American States and to ¢ongratulaté the  Diréétor- General, Dr. ‘Luther Evans; on behalf of the  Organization ot American | States, for his” ‘éxéellent  report, ‘ It is also a pleasure to attend a “éésélon in this  splendid building which is Unésco's own home,
10.2 Mr, President, the Genéral Conference of *  Unesco has gréat moral significance, - The representa-  tives of cultire have not come’ together from all over  the world merely to darry out the administrative act of  voting a budget, No, they are here, ‘as representatives  of the conscience of mankind, to reaffirm the principles  of the United Nations and to consider how all the peoples  of the world can safeguard and implément them.
10,3 The very words “United Nations"! should make  us think,
10,4 After a terrible: way dhaikind has mastered its  grief and decided to try to derive some wisdom from  the experience. Thé old theory of the balance of power  has been réplaced by moral law,’ ‘and ‘an intérnational  body set up to enforce it, The Unitéd Nations is the  symbol of that decision takèn by mankind, We are not  diving under thé ! ‘iniversal ‘monérchy" « of which Dante  dreamed és an añswef to his cry for peace, wrung from,  him by the sufferings of his time, This ls something  more: ‘international democrdcy ds a sysiem for deal-  ing with conflicts and regulating relations among the  peoples of the world,
10.5 The peoples ... because the peoples are present
218     MEETINGS  today, This {s another modern phénomenon which  became à preponderant force immediately’ after the  Second World Wars the realrevoitofthe masses; the  uprising of the common people, anxious to have their  share in the benefits of civilization and culture,
10,6 What do these great masses of Asia, Africa,  the Americas and Oceania want? Or rather, what do  thesé men and women want? What does each of them  want ?
10,7 Allare seeking something; they ‘want a root,  bread, sécurity’ for those they love, da spark of the  light of culture; a peaceful old age; a place where  they dan rest at last, - Thesé are humanity's age-old  desires, which have been held in check and denied  for centuries; but are being voiced again in the  general revoit,* *
10,8  Directly after thé world conflagration, the ideal  of the United Natlons gave a gréater sense of the unity  - of mankind and renewed stréngth to attack the injust--  ices and scourges which drive nations to despair and  violence, - Great intérnational agenolés, such as  Unesco, the Food and’ Agriculture Organization and the  World Health Organization, arose to combat ignorance,  poverty and disease, They came to join the veteran.  International ‘Labour Office, responsible for securing.  social justices
10,8 We must riot think of all this as being merely  a great bureaucratic apparatus of in érnational ‘dimen-  sions, The United Nations is av. Ci pression of immense  human suffering ‘and’ of a passic _ desire for mercy,  justice and hope, "©
10,10 But the United Natlons ideal Would be iréom-"  plete if it were: limited to the establishment of security  and well-being. ‘ Man today, ‘ as alwéys; is seeking  mental and spiritial freedom,’ "This: is the | first defence  of peace, In the Declaration of Humati Rights, the ‘ ‘  United Nations and the Or génization of American States  have offered men a banner and'à missidh. To enforce  it throughout the world and to give it life dnd spirit |  should be the constant endeavour of the contemporary ‘  world. The Déclaration of Human Rights should be- -  come the very flesh and blood of Twentieth céntury  Man,
10.11 It is for us to uästjde the rbie which falls to  Unesco in this mission of redemption, Let us reread  the Constitution and consider whéihér what has been  accomplished is commensurate vith the ideals of  those who foundéd Unesco.
10,12 - "Since wars begin in the minds of men", so |  reads thé Constitution, "it is in the minds of men that  the defences of peace -must be constructed," But wars  do not begin in thé ihinds of men - they begin in the  minds of a few men, '
10.13 The modern world wants peace, but it is.  haunted by the nightmare of wars Thé déferices of  peace already exis t in the ¢onsclence’ ‘of ifiankind, but,  faced with thé reloniless course of ‘events,’ théy are  of no avail. Unesco would bé failing fii its task did ft  not: bravely ‘confroit this greatest paradox Of oui time,
10, 14 ‘Orie of Unescots Major Projects fe ‘concerned  with miutüalundersiandiñg of Eastern and Wiatern  cultural values, Althovghthe wording is végue, there: "  is agreement that the Project alms atbetter understand.  ing of the great Asian cultures in Europe and América,  and vice-versa. It is a laudable objective,” What :  humanity seeks and needs is mutual understanding  and acquaintance between the Orient and Occident,   .PLENARY MEETINGS xiv  facing each other serosa the spiritual frontier of our  age. -
10,16 ‘Each people ‘seeks its own paths in thif Haht '  of the geographical factors affecting it and its own  historical genius, . Diffiquities and competition then  cannot but exist, for they are the price of progress.  But Twentieth century Man has a right to demand the  establishment of a world moral standard to direct the  rivalries of nationalisms and ideologies along the ways  of peace and justice, .
10,16 History tells us of other olaghes of values, of  conceptions of.life, for which peoples have gone to  war, Yet later, nevertheless, we have seen those who  were formerly irreconcilable enemies ‘settle their  differences and live together in brothérhood, .
10,17, The old idea of "To kill or be killed" no  longer applies to any conflict possible in our own days,  in which the sole and terrifying choice would be to  kill and be killed, :
10,18 Unesco's Constitution binds us to enlist  education, science and culture in the cause of peace,  The appalling tension under which the generation of  today is’ living calls for research and diagnosis by  sociologists, psychologists, economists and political  philosophers, SE
10,19 °. We must ‘promote the ‘closest contacts between  the intellectuals, educators, journalists, artists and  students’ of the two rival worlds, But this is not  enough just as thé efforts of the chosen few are not ;  enough to cure the ill. We must reach the pepples. :  The Major Project on the Extension of Prir;s3y Educ-  ation in Latin'Amerlca deserves a special place in  Unesco's thoughts and consideration for extension to  -other- parts of the world,
10,20 .. Unesco ‘should promote’ national "education  plans | for the organized employment of States! 0 own  resources and should concentrate its own resources:  on the promotion of teacher training. - -Schools are the  ) nurseries where the. new human race of which we,  dream in this the second half of the Twentieth century  is being reared, .. ;
10.21 .Combatting illiteracy is a sterile task it the  man who learns to reid does not, have ready to ‘his  hand the books which can make his life a nobler thing.  It is therefore Unesco's unshirkable task to spread  the best that culture can offer, through the printed  word, 8
10,22 The promotion bf ie technical education is  essential at à moment | Are en, ihe nations are concerned  with improving { their ni E | conditions by speeding up  the process ‘of Industrial ization, se
10, 26  bind the Organization of American States, - the oldest  of ali international organizations, - - which is ..  co-operating with Unesco in the new world, The  position is auspicious, The Organization of American  States is the expression of 21 American Republics!  will to peace. Unesco seeks to achieve peace through  culture; the Organization of American States promotes
219     culture in a climate of peace, The understanding. -  between ‘the two Organizations has yielded excellent .  results - seminars and conferences haye been held, .  training centres for teachers and experts in fupda-  mental education estabitshed, and many other projects .  carried out in America by. the joint endeavours of the,  Organization of American States and Unesco, -
10,26 This co-operation between our regional body  and the international Organization cannot but strengthen  anew our, faith in our common ideals, ,The Organiza-  tion of Americen States, with its half century of  service to the peoples of America, is here today to |  join its strength to that of this Conference, the symbol  of mankind's unity and the proof that men of all races,  nations and beliefs, made brothers by the living sense  of concord and friendship, can work together for the  cause of peace,
11, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian);  I thank Mr, Nannetti and call upon the delegate of  Ethiopia, Mr, Wold,
12,1 Mr, WOLD (Ethiopia) (translation from the  French}; .  Mr, President, ladles ‘and gentlemen, it is not.  without emotion that I confess that this is the first :  time the honour has fallen to me of heading a delegation  from my, country to this great international Conference,  The honour would also be a testing, experience. did 1  stand before any other assembly than your own, but  now, after many years ss Head of Public Education in  Ethiopia, I feel that, though a newcomer, I am yet at  home in an Organization which it seems hardly suitable  to call a “Specialized Agency", whenthe loftiness of  its aims and the range of the media and methods it  employs raise it so far. above the level of specialization  in any narrow sense. .: i
12,2 1 too, in my Government's. namé, “would express  my thanks to ‘the Government of the French Republic  and the City. of Paris who have. made this meeting of  ours possible in a setting so favoured that I suspect  the visiting delegations of envying the permanent  delegates and staff of Unesco, for whom it will remain  the scene of their daily life, | . -
12,3 I welcome, the speclally, happy. ‘decision of this  assembly, to raise the Halian Tiust Territory of .  Somaliland; the Federation. ‘ot the West Indies and.  Kuwait to the status of Assoclate Members. ‘of Unesco  and I think I speak for ‘all of us in expressing ‘ our joy  that Ghana dnd Malaya are, {for the first time, parti-  cipating fully and completely in our proceedings.
12.4 1am also glad to havé the opportunity of  thanking the Director- General, Dr , Luther Evans, and  all those who, under his leaderstap, have givén of.  themselves unsparingly, not orly to carry out a diffi-  cult programme but to open up new vistas for our  Organization, = -
12,5 Incidentally, we in Eihlopta have had the plea-  sure of visits from the Director-General, Mr.. Veronese  and Mr. Adiseshiah, -white other distinguished repre-  sentatives of the Secrétariat. and various experts have  been passing our way since 1955, I venture to assert  that all these visitors have been able to see for them-  . selves on the spot that the efforts expended by the  Ethiopian authorities to promote increasingly modern  forms of education on an ever wider scale are proceed-  ing on the lines which Unesco would like to see adopted   XIV PLENARY MEETINGS  everywhere, ‘anid tha{ the closest ahd most fruitful  co-operation has ool ‘established between the local :  “administration and Unésèols representatives, As  proof of this, 1 need dno more than mention the  Madjiti Community Céntre,’ about 300 kilometres"  from Addls-Ababa, “aiexpériment of particular inter-  est and a definite success {i the educational field, It  could not indeed have béen ‘otherwise, given the  strength with which Ethiopia has’evér held to the prin-  ciples of collective’ security and international co-  operation, which ‘shé seès as the sole basis of enduring  peace, But, ‘àt least as much as to Ethiopia's heart-  fei and unreseived acceptance 'of tHese principles,  the co- operation’ happily’ obtaining can be ascribed to  the fact that educalion has always been treated as our  top priority problem. « 4
12,6 My country has uñférturiately had the tragic  experience of seeing its intellectual leadership system-  atically'deéimatéd. - On our ‘Liberation; thé problem -  of schooling took precedence over all others and; to  signify the exceptional importance hé attached to it,  His Majesty. the Emperor deliberately combined with  his own supréine office’ that.of Minister of Education.  The budget of the Ministry of Education has been  steadily increased, ‘even at some saciifide of the | :  interests of’ other Ministries ny less important; -  cope with the” programinié for the extension of sehool-  ing to the whole country,” a “spepial thrée per cent ad  valorem tax is levied on all imported merchandise  and articles and the yield set aside‘to finarice the’  advancement of €ducation. A’ corresponding tax is  levi¢d on all lard." Advisory committees on edication,  elected by popular suffrage and under’ thé: authority  of the Higher Council of Educatioi th ‘Addis- Ababa  have been Set up in each of thé Enipirets thirteen’  provinces,” and supervise thé disbursement of the  funds collected in their respective provinces In res-  pect of the imports’ I have just mentioned. Thése  measures have created'à spirit ot emulation and’  through them we ate progressing towards the intro-  duction of frée and compulsory’ éducation. ‘ Already  the modest erirolment fee of three Einiôpian dollars  per term, formerly payable by ‘the’ parent ‘of primary  schoël pupils, has been abolished, ‘Therë Has been  an increase in the number of sécondary schodls and  they have been supplemented by university colleges.  -I want to emphasize that education in these éstablish-  ments 18 free of all charge; board and icdging are  free for pupils electing to enter as boarders and  school equipment is supplied free. Thèse arrange-  ments also apply in the agricultural schools; the ;  training schools for future builders and téchnicians, °  and the’ schools’ of conimerce, all ‘éstablished more  than ter years ago dnd playing their part in the èmer-  gence. of a professiondi‘class, : We shall nevér fail  to ackriowlédge the aid afforded us in this field by  Unesco and the other United Nations Agendies.
12.7 Co-operation between Unesco, teachers and  the general body of Ethiopian ‘ ¢lvil ‘servants responsible  for questions of education and culture will not fail,  I am sure, ‘to increase in the years to come and my  Government will afford its full support in the imple-  mentation of the programine presented by the  Director- General,
12,8 My Government sets à high value dri the Major  . Project on the Mutual Appreciation of Eastern and  Western Cultural Values. Ethiopia, a part of Africa
220     geographically,’ but equipped by its history and  ancient culture to be receptive to the ideala of other  parts of the world; is in à position to make a useful  contribution to greater mutual knowledge and under-  standing between ofvilizations Whose salient differ-  ence ia their degrée of technological advance, ”
12,9 Since we shall be talking about Africa later:  and Unescots interest in Africa's problems, may 1  venture to observe that irisufficient attention is pald -  to those African countries lying South'of the Sahara,  The infant States; whose birth we are witnessing in ‘  that part of thé world and’ whose numbers will neces--  sarily increase; have extremely urgent probleiis to  tackle, in connexion with thé fight égalrist iliteracy  and also with the Intensive trainiñg of techniolans, -  Whatever the interest of long-term projects,’ of  résearch of great’ ‘significance for pure sclence, what  is really needed 15 to apply practical remedies at  once and in quantity to respond to the’ ‘appeals’ now  : reaching us, Is it not significant that the African  States, which are conscious of the exceptional merits  of intérnational bodies, are already carrying out  exchangés of students among themsélvei? For instance,  this very year the secondary schools aiid university  colleges in Ethiopia have been opened to young people  from neighbouring éountries whose expenses are paid  by our Government, -
12,10: The voice of atfilcted Africa ight ‘perhaps  get a better hearing if - as indeed the triditional rule  of geographical distribution requires - the continent  were better represented at all level in our Organiza-  tion,
12,11 We rejoicé at the success of the work ünder-  taken in Latin America to combat illiteracy and promote  suitablé fundamental edücation and we wish to express .  our admiration and gratitude to all ‘the officlals and ©  all the experts through whom this vast task is being °  carried to success;’ “But is it riot désirable -'hây, ‘even  essential - to exterid thé undertaking ' to the continent ~  of Africa arid théreby ‘make thé most of the experience  gained in South America? ‘ I agree that Africa has its‘  place in Unesto's thoughts, ‘that appreciable ‘éfforis -  have been made and that the’ projects’ on secondary and  vocational education in Tropical Atriéà are ‘of the -  utmost interest,” especially t to my delegation, Tteel -  however that I niiist stress one poinf = the essential  problem of Africa is to get to immediate grips with  illiteracy and thé most urgent need is to éxpand  primary s¢hoold, * The distiäguished representative  -of thé Federal Republic of Germany, at the meeting  of 7 November, rightly stressed that’ necessity;  while my good colleague and friénd, the head of the  Liberian delegation, advanced convincing arguments  to the same effect at the meeting of 10 November.  We subscribe’ wholeheartedly to the conclusions reached .  by both aiid hope that, in the spiéit of the resolution  adopted by the General Conference at its eighth  session, the question of cémpulsorÿ primary school  ing will become, in the African context, a priority  project, 2
12,12 ‘I have nb wish to comment on the details of  the budget before us, on which many speakers before  me have made observations which were oiten justified.  We shall réserve our remarks in that connexion for  the appropriate commiittees.
12,13 At that moment, we also propose to ask our  colleagues to give special consideration to the Social
14,4  :14, '8  PLENARY  Sciences chapter, - in view of th) problems posed by .  Africats growling industrialization, , This 1s fhdeed an  eminently desirable development, “bul it inay well  have far-reaching x re pécéussiors : on ‘tradit! nal struo-  tures and diagnosis and praéiical measures ‘are re-  quired to make tfié charigé-oyer u smooth one, |,
12,14 . In conclusion, Mv, President, ‘1 wish, on .  behalf of my delegatiod, to extend’ niy thanks td the  Director-General for thye distinguished report he has  put before us, ds also tp all those concerned in the.  preparations for this wi erence, and to exprèss my  complete cénylotion that'the tenth’ session of the’ Gen-  eral Conference, which has opened În such favourable  conditions, will-enable up to take a new step forward  and to give ‘more dignity, more opportunities, to the  millions of men and women throughout the world who  place such high hopes in oir endeavours, ’
13, The PRESIDENT (Repair from the Russian):  I thank the delegate of Ethicpla and call upon the  delegate of Nicaragua, Mr, ‘Quintanilla,
14, 1 Mr,  JuEATILLA Wiearagua) © (Translation  great’ hohout'; and’ grounds for | proper’ pr et td be  speaking | in my ot name ave ex i Ti a  good fortune to be ‘able to evoke the ey Teéniory of  a great poet - Rubén Darfo, reformer and visionary -  whose world-compassing and tnimortal voice gives  Nicaragua its rightful placé in thé realm of universal  culture, _
14,3 But apart from this higher ‘fiûre with its deep-  rooted basis in the “spirfiual ‘spheré,’ my country can’  also advance’ | its ‘genuine co- “operation and unwearying  efforts ât Unesco's side since our affillation, in  February: 1952, to the Organization's noble cause,  Before got gl'ori to thé body of my discourse, 1  would ask the Indulgeii¢e of thé distinguished delegates  here present, whose provén ‘understanding and toler-  ance make my task less difticult, nl
14,5 © The Nicaragua ‘délégation t o this, the tenth  session’ of the General Confereriéé ‘ of Uriesco, ‘has  closely studied the Téport presented by the Director-  General on the Organization's activities over the last  two years of hard’ ‘and früittül Work In the vast and  complex domains’ of education, science and culture  in svery quarter, and region of the globe.  Wé have perused,’ “100; ° ‘with the greatest Anter-  est and in the fullest detail; “the. Proposed Programme  and Budget for 1959-1960, also submitted to this Con-  ference by the Director-General,
14,7 These two documents, in our judgement, are  the cléarest proof of Unestots substantiality,’ éffective-  ness.and scope, The report contains valuable ‘and  revealing details ‘of the successes achieved by the  Organization in the various spherés of its activity and  those victories demonstrate - strikingly and |  indisputably how’ far Unescots "ideals ‘have pro-  gressed towards becoming fact’ and how it has  MEETINGS
14,11  XIV  continued to expand, and consolidate its sphere of.  operations,’ Le
14,8 . Particularly striking is the progress achieved  in the operation of the three Major Projects approved  by the General ‘Conference al its ninth session in New  Jelhi in November. Joos the Extension of Primary  E-lucation in Latin America; Scientifio Research on  Arid Lands; ‘Mutual Appreciation of Eastern and  Western Culiural Values,
14,9 - Me.’ President, what. has been accomplished  under these splendid projects,’ begotten under, fortun-  ate stars, 1s really impressive, -Never before. has any  organization ‘accomplished 50 much in so little time  -and this fact proclaims aloud the competence, drive  and lofty pie of international service’ inspiring and  animating the work of those who so ably direct and  administer Unescots programmes -
14, 10 Niçaragua counts itself privileged to express  gratitude to Dr, Luther Evans, our distinguished -  Director-General, to our good and respected friend,  Mr, Malcolm S, Adiseshiah, and to all those working  with them in the several departments of Unesco on the  outstanding work carrled out with such dedication and  devotion, RCE  réa  Proposed Programme and Budget, for. 1959- -1960, More  particularly we applaud, the provisions for the increase  of the appropriations for the extension of primary .  education in Latin America because Nicaragua has a  direct interest in’this Major Project, which comes  providentially, to make an eftective reality of the free  and ‘compulsory education prescribed in the Constitu-  tions of ail States of Latin America, , but’ glyen sub-  stance only on the most. limited scale, _owing to lack of  money, lack of. foresight, or. lack of clear appreciation  of the, scope ‘and sweep € of this problem, -
14,12. ‘In our. view, culture is the best agent of free-  dom and, it the. doors, ‘ot the school are barred to the  common man, | the fundamental principles of demog¢racy  are. imperilied,. To grasp this truth and tackle it  with courage and intelligent determination is the only  way of putting an end to prejudice, economic insecurity  and underprivilege of eyery type:
14,13 * Latin America is going through one of the most  lively and important stages in its history, The swift  growth of the population, the constant spread of indus-  trialization, the consolidation of républican institutions  and the progréssive extension of the public service, all  require strong, mnie cdiate and full-scale government  action 'in the field’ of "éducation and a clamping down on  illiteracy at the source,
14,14 A great American educator, Domingo ‘Faustino  Sarmiento, used to say that the Republic: itself should  be treated as one vast school, He was speaking of .  Argentina, his nalive land, but his inspired thought  should bé made a reality “throughout the continent by ,  the governments concerned, The time is already ripe  tor the 70’ million ‘children and adults stl] barred from  the benefits’ of ‘elyilization and culture, to be admitted  tothém forthwith, if we really. wish to speed up the  rate of our écôromie, ‘political and social development.
14,15" Unesco, . in ‘co- operation with, the Organization  of American States ‘and other international bodies, is .  - making a ‘powerful contributfon towards the success of  is joint venture of the nations which make up the  continent discovered by Columbus,   XIV
14,16 ‘Môregver that co-operation cannot but have  repercussions far outside the regional: American ;  sphère, since the experience gained must be of as '  much service to an the countries of the international  community.
14,17" We consider var this vas} édhicationat project,  the greatest of any over ‘ launched in’ any ‘continent  pointé cleaily to’thé "will (0 progress’ dot the Latin  American péoples and to the extraordinary insight of  Unesco, ‘It is Wa great’ sétisfaction, Mr, President,  that we rioté that this Projéct has been strongthened  and ¢onfirmed in the programme’ and budget submitted  by. the Director- General,
14,18" We suppért the ‘establishment - jotntly with  the Organization of American States - “of an Intér-  American Centre for’ Rural Éducation with‘{is head-  quarters in Venezueld, and thé déciston to concentrate  more on the compreherisive planning of education,
14,19 We Support thie continuance of the teacher-  training courses in the Escuela Superior de Adminis-  tracién Péblica ti Costa Ricé and the seminars on  science’ teaching sponsored by the Montevideo Science  Co-operation Office, -
14,20 We support the expansion of the Anternatiorial  programnié of fellowships for the training of education  specialists and the technical assistance agreements  administered by | the Organization of Central American  States,’
14,21 * Wé Support thé ‘éétatltèhiment of new’ Assoclated  Normal Schoéls and the Pile ‘School Libraries Scheme  for Latin America, "We Suppor( thé reinforcement of  and assistance to Nalional’ Commissions and the foiin-_  dation of the’ Latin American School of Public Admini  stration suggested by FLACSO!
14,22 Mr, President,” I think it ohly right io slate  plainly that Niéatägia {s deriving the fullést ‘ahd most’  satisfactory bénefité from "Unescots Major Project’  No.’ 1, under which we. have been able’ to” ‘secure @sso-  ciaté status £61 two Urbañ Normal Schçois, lo improve  =  and accelerate the {Afalning ‘of primary Tenbor tedchers, :  the provision of experts to modernize and reform our  educational system and the provision of fellowships ‘tor  specialist studies in the various fields of education,
14,23 To match all this; the Government” Ï répresent  has takén effective steps to érisuré the éxpanslon of our  educational services, ‘The appropriations’ for ‘national  education are being progressively Increaséd, "Teachers!  salaries have béen Improvéd.” Seating’ capacity ‘in pri-  mary s¢hools has been raised, * A pilot project fn  Fundamental Education’ is in opérall {én on’ the Riô Coco,  which is ‘one of the leading éxpeFiraerits of Its kind now  going on in Latin Anictica, A modern Rural Normal  Schiool has been establistied’ with ‘help on the technical  side fromthe International Co-opération Administra-  tion. “À national school building plan {s in course of  executionand sysieinatic in-service training of teacher's  “18 proceeding. *
14,24 My! President)’ becdusé we are Convinced of  the merits of the Major Project | on’ the Exteliblon of  Primary ‘Education in Latin America and bécause we  have’ reiched’ an “appreéiation ‘ of the rmagnitudé of the  educatiohal problem fioing our ‘countries, my delega-  tion will vote in’favôür of thé budgetary Increase  suggested’ by the Director- “General to strengthen this  projéet. -
14,25 Likewlsé, “the” Nicaraguan ‘delegation ‘will  endeavour, when the moment comés, ‘to secure
16,2  PLENARY MEETINGS  fevourablé decisions by ‘the General Gonterence at its  ténth seésion 9 ii the fo lowing matters),
14,26 Ji A Prenowed appeal to. {ntérnationa] baiiking  and grédit institutions for the grant of long-term;  loans to undérdeyeloped countries for speci school  bullding operations and the purchase’ of teaching *.°  equipment and malerialg, © The obsiructively. dilatory  attitüde of the ‘ banks là this conaexlon i considerably  delaying the éxpansion of Hatignal e id on programmes  and {t's are ob that capite ‘from individua)  teracy and, ue, this conexion, it would be well to  increase the éirculation of the Fundamental Education  Primers publishéd by OAS, |
14,27 Mr, President, fellow delegates, on the  special Anstyuctions’ of my Government and with much  personal satisfaction, -l'express,. on his memorable  gccasion, our gratitude to the gailant and noble people  of France and to, the distinguished men who form their  Government { tor the generous Hospitality they are  affording us for’ 1H ‘tenth session of the General  Conferenée, meeting | in the, glories of Paris, timeless  and efernal, and in this" splendid palace. whose massive  architectural harmony symbolizes the moral strength  and indestructible spirit of Unesco, . -
14,28 Finally, Nicaragua affirms’ its unswerving.  loyalty to, and unquenchable faith in, the principles  of Unesco, which is already the most outstanding  achievement of civilized man in hig’ stryggle to assert  his essential values end the most heartlifiing hope for  peace in & world stiil full of uncertainty and mis-  understanding,
15, The PRESIDENT (Translation trom the Russian}:  I thank the delegate of Nicaragua and call upon the  representative of the League of Arab States, Mr. El  Diwany. ,Ç
16, 1° Mr. EL DIWANY (League of Arab States)  (Translation from the French): Gd  Mr; President, ladies and gentlemen, as’ this is  the first time the League of Arab States has had the  honour fo attend a General Cqnference of Unesco, 1 .  think {t my duty to_give you a brief outline of the  League's cultural activities. . |  The Arab States are homogeneous elements in   PLENARY MEETINGS  a nation divided into several political entitles by the  differing historiés of its component paris, Within:  their respective boundaries] they lead their separate  national lives but ave always bound together by certain  indissoluble' spiritual and cultural Mes, Thus the  have a common knguage; à common cultural heri age  and thé memory of à long history of civilizations which  - they have founded together, As a result, the notion ‘  of the League has Leen at the back of. the Arab mind -  since the end of the Firat World War but got no further  until the end cf thié, Second, ‘when 1f émergéd às the  present League, which defined le aim and {ts cultural  - activities as soon as'il'waë ‘established in 1946.
16.3 . All in all, the Arab Ledgue's cultural activities  represent a kind of cléaring house operation, like the  activities of mary departments In Unesco, - In pursu-  ance of thig idea, a cultural tréaty was signed,  binding the ‘Arab States to mutual ‘aid’and to supple-  menting each other's individual activities whenever  and wherever there was a gap fo be filled,
16,4 So, too," exchanges of teachers are effected on  a very large'scale between thé "Arab States and, at  present, some hlndrèds ot Arab teachers are to bé -  found beyond the frontiers of their individual countries,  teaching in other States whose govénments have  called on them, “Again there are brisk exchanges of  students between the various Arab States, with these  young péople môying on from one’ éountry to another  where a fuller training is 'avdilablé and all the néces-  sary arrangements for mutual recognition’ of degrees  and for equivalence of ‘stiidies have been made, so  that they find not the slightest difficulty in transfer-  ring from one university to another, :
16,5 It was In 1946; that is, immediately after  the League was ‘formed, that a'‘cültural treaty was  signed, and it is thé League 's work in thé fiéid of  culture which is the bond béfween us here,
16.6 Mr, President, the League of Arab States has  always concerned itself with the commion heritage of -  all Arabs - the’ countless manuscripts distributed over  the libraries, public or private; of the whole world or  in the hands of private | persons, Acéordingly the  Arab League has established ‘an Inétituie ot Manuscripts  for the specific purpose of listing and cataloguing,  with the necessary bibliograp hical rotes,” the varlous  Arabic manuscripts held by all librarids; thus'a  research worker éoming 6 the’ Institute of ‘Manu-  scripts, currently accommodated at the headquarters  of the Arab League; can there find out ‘exactly where  a particular manusciipt | is to be found; hé may even  be able to discover how long it is’ ‘and obtain’ some idea  of its valie.- ; 4  ulffa-modern eqiiipment, concentrates’ on producing  photostats of which it sénds’any copies needed to  research workers in'ôther countries.” As a Fésult,  after studying ‘the’ ‘catalogues, of a whole series of  libraèies and’ éoretimes sendiig agérits to Assess  the value of particular’ manuseripts, thé institute of  Arabic Manuscripts currently holds 9, 000 individual  "tems représénting ( over 2 raiiiton Pages. ib
16.7 - Mr, President; this rapid outline will enable’  you to seé thé similatity,” thé affinity of the cultural -  . activities of thé League of Arab States with those of  Unesco, Ît'is on that scedunt that we have bound our-  selves to Unesco by an agreement, 50 that our  respective activities may be undertaken after mutual  consultation, ovérläpping thus being avoided   1
223  XIV  and our. ¢¢-operation made more * effective, *
16,8 ‘ . The Arab League has of ctairse tiken ah’ fabor-  est in all Unescots work éver since the latter's’ touida-  tion, For instance, the League has concerned tse  particularly with the Department of Education and Fotos  with satisfaction the progress and expansion of its -  activities, which show a’ really remarkable development  over the past few years, - When’ we compare the educa-  tion ‘appropriation in the éarly Unesco budgets before
1950 - say in 1948 or 1947 - withthe appropriations then  made, say, for Mass Communication or‘othèr' activities,  we realize that at that time the Education Departimerit  stood in the relation of à Cinderella to the’ rest, al-  though, in actual fact, Eduéation is’ the first activity  to be mentioned when one tries, to explain what Unesco  is,
16,9 Since then; things have changed arid today  Unes¢o,’ led thereto by successive Diréctôrs-Ceneral  and especially by Dr, Luther Evans, to’ ‘whose intellls  gence, independence of character, honesty and deva-  tion'l gladly pay tribute, has succeeded lh expanding  its educational programme in a highly satisfaotosy  wéy, Education how stands for fighting illiteracy,  founding regional centrés, training teachers; preparing  teaching materials, sending out missions, providing  experts ete, - all truly valuable ‘and productive  activities,
16,10 * As regards Unescots other projects, such as  that on the Arid Zone and ‘that'on the Mutual Appreoia-  tion of Eastern arid Western Culiural Values," I shall,  with your leave, hävé a brief word to say on both, -
16,11 ‘Under the Arid Zone Project - the report tells  us - preliminary dctivities have beeh proceeding  since as long ago as 1951, Thus the Project was the  successor, after a gap of two-or three ‘years, ,of the  famous Hylean' ‘Amazon scheme, The Arid Zone  Project is {oday entering its third year and its  activities comprise scientific research, the foundation  of various institufes, the development of some already  in existence, the training of experts (I, e. the award of  fellowships), and, finally,” the study of wind and solar  energy.
16,12 . In my view, the setentifle research institutes  should be used forthwith - I say this because the ’  execution of the Projéct is tô'bé spread over six years -  and their activities should bé focussed at once on the  practical aspects of the probiém,
16.13 Arid zone research is ‘not and should not be  a matter of pure stlence, however praiseworthy the  aims of research in pure’ ‘aélence may be and notwith-  standing our inabilfty to say ‘exaëtly where pure science  ends and applied science begins; - for us it in essential,  now, to direst the efforis of these’ institutes towards‘  applied research i; ¢, reséarth'on désérte, :hydrology  hydrography etc: ‘for the” specific’ purpose of cultivat-  ing the desert so that it may yleld food for man, ? It  is not & matter of pursuing research for aix years,  of encouraging | scientists and supporting Institutes,  in order that the instituies may thereafter become  components of faculties of sclérncé or of universities,  where research drifts on, divorced from real life;  passed on from one proféssor to the next, from one  student to the next; institutes where examinations are  taken and diplomas may even be secured; far others  wise, the task is to'prove, from time to tire, that °  such and such an item of research has proved ‘applle-’  able in the field and has ‘yielded thls or that result.”   XIV N
16, 14 When we have achieved that, gen time, it  will be qasy enough to find people to exploit these  methods and apply them lo the more or less intensive  cultivation of the desert, -..
16, 15 - Thus, asand when a practical result is  reached, {t_ must be brought into use at once so that  it can supply food for man, .
16,16 . As regards the training of ‘exports, ‘this is a  question which hes always been dear to Unesco, since  it has always made a special point, of sending fellow-  ship holders from country to country, - ;
16,17, Howeyer,. when a man is sent to another  country ‘with a fellowship and trained; there as an  expert, Unesco, which has borne the cost of this  fellowship, must have some guarantee that, on his re-  turn home, the man will remain, for some time at  least, -in the service of the project for which he was  trained, Today, if an expert is trained for this or  that country, he goes home, stays a while - sometimes  a very short while - finds another post elsewhere, a  little better paid, and leave the Desert Institute or  wherever he has been posted and goes off to look for  something better, It was not for that that we trained  him, When & man is trained as an expért,. Unesco  must find means to bind him:to stay at his post, and  éven to bind the Member State to retain him in his  appointment, for a specified minimum period - six  yvars or ten years - that is a matter for discussion,  If one man does not accept these conditions, angther  will, and the second man will be more interested,  more dedicated to his task than the first,. With that  , point made, gentlemen, since the matter of scientific  research is obviously one of our continuing concerns,  there is no reason why, ‘in other, spheres, research  should not continue on the purest and most thorough  lines - but not within the scope of the Arid Zone Pro-  ject. -
16.18. As regards the. ‘other Project, “that on the  Mutual Appreciation of Eastern and Western Cultural  Values, you all know that the countries, like those of  the Arab League, which now need help from others,  once upon a time. - very long ago - gave science and  learning to Europe, Europe in her turn is repaying  the debt and the universities - universities in general  = have certainly not laid themselves open to the  slightest criticism over the dispensing of learning,  which they have done without chaffering to. every.  student who comes to them, .
16.19 Since the beginning of. the present century, we  Arabs have therefore been sending our. children to the  various universities and schools of foreign lands, in.  France, England,. America, Germany and Italy, and in  that way we have secured, at the charge either of those  concerned, or of the State, a chosen few who today  manage all our activities. Hence we know the West °  by the means 1 have described, ‘Another way ( of know-  ing the West is by reading ‘translations of its modern .  and classical writings, . Now, gentlemen, in the .  cultura) treaty of 1946 of which I have just ‘been speak-  ing and which binds all the Arab States, there is an -  article - the seventh - ‘which reads as follows:.  "Member States shall encourage the translation from  foreign languages of works of famous authors, classi-  cal or modern, and co-ordinate all efforts, exerted in -  this direction", That dates from 1946, from Unesco's  birth so to speak, . -And, since then, a good thousand  works by leading authors, classical and modern, have
224  PLENARY MEETINGS  been selected by specipl university committees and _  their translation’ underinken, Some hundreds of them  have already been print ed wl, published and the rest  will gurel follow, : I EN =
16,20 . So, gentlemen, we want the West to know as  much about us as we know about if, The question of  how to achieve thig ig ona for discussion at greater  leisure in specialized corhmittees. .
16,21 Mr, President, that Is all I have to say, "May  I repeat my compliments and congratulations to the  Director-General and his distinguished colleagues?  The PRESIDENT (Ti anslation from the Russian);  Thank you Mr, El Diwary, 1now call upon the  delegate of Jordan, Mr, Salim.
18,1 Mr; SALIM (Jordan):  Mr, President, fellow delégates, at this very late  hour cf this illuminating debate 1 must make my infer-  vention véry short, . We have always been advised to  save time; I wish only that we were told more of the  important ways in which we could spend the time we  save, I hope also that in our attempt to save time,  we shall not overlook the ‘principles, rules and regu-  lations which govern our deliberations,
18,2 We are very happy to be in the magnificent  house of Unesco, amongst many triends from all  nations, . It is our hope that the ideals of liberty, .  equality and fraternity pursued, by this: great city in  the past,” will reign over all our thought and activity  in the present, Beiter international understanding  and'a just and ‘everlasting peace will never be achieved  if we do not believe that men are born free and equal  brothers. We need to bellevé, but also to manifest  this bellef in our actions. . ;
18,3. Jordan is a very small country. with a very  poor economy, ; One-third,- if not more, of the total  population are refugees. from Palestine; : they were  driven out from their homes, farmé; schools and  everything they held dear, by a powerful conspiracy  and a barbarous égeression, They. are denied their  right to’ their personal propérty and ‘their right to  go back to the honies and farms which they | have built  and cultivated with their gweat and blood. _
18, 4-. ‘The eduçation’ ‘of ez refugee ‘children from  Palestine is of ‘particular toncern fo my country.  We look with very keén interest and enthusiasm to .  Unesco's participation in the programme ¢ of, ‘éducation  for refugee children, : I may seém that the rôle of  Unesco in this field is a minor one, because UNWRA  has all the funds: and ‘Unesco has only technical and  professional responsibilities, - - But in fact, Unesco, -  with all its knowledge and experienc, of educational  theories and techniques, could make of, the refugee -  children's. education a ‘pioneering example for the, .  whole area, Unfortunately, it has mot bèen able to, do  so and has not even been able to raise thio standard of  their education up to, the standards’of ‘éducation in the  host countries, | There may be many, reagons f or. this  failure, 1 might. well cite one; , at the. previous General  Conference, is posts for, '{echnical ¢ advisers > pro-  gramme specialists and professional experts’ were ….  established to help in the, work of refugee chiidilents  educailon, but we discover that only 7,of these jave  been filled, I do not wish to dwell on this pointy  would rather draw your kind attention fo the fact inat  Jordan, in spite of its meagre financial resources,   PLENARY MEETINGS  has been able to accommodate 40, 000 refugee children  vla its own schools:-;.We have more than-16 per, cent  of the total population of the country enrolled in _ -  elementary, secondary and higher institutions:: a  good record, -which was achieved as a result of our  belief in the right to education, Education in Jordan  {s an economic investment, and better use of human  resources is a major stép in the preparation of a  better future for our country. In this context, Mr,  President, I should like to refer to draft resolution
10 C/DR/14, submitted by the United States delega-  tion, to offer it strong support and express our deep  gratitude,
18,5 : Mr, President; last Jañuary, when the Arab  States met in the very old and léarned city of Fez to  discuss the programme and budget of Unesco, with  the help of the Secretariat and representatives from,  many other Member States, the ‘Arab National Commis-  sions!. representatives drafted certain 1gsolutions and  recommendations, some of which were‘addressed to  Unesco in the hope that they would be taken into con-  sideration when the programme was revised, I need  not repeat those recommendations, but I hope that the  Secretariat will find ways ‘dnd means to implement  them'in the present, and In futüre, programmes. : 1  might add that, although Jordan would like to play a  major part in the implementation of the Arid Zone .  Project, it is niore deeply concérned with thé better  use of {ts water. resources for the improvement of,  the living conditions ‘of the people,‘ We belléve in the  Mutual Appreciation of Eastern and Western Cultural  Values; - we say to those who believe’ iri the spiritual  values, and consider them. important for the énrich-  ment and éhnôbling df human” ‘experiencè; that Jordan,  the ‘cradle of religion, has évery good intention and a  firnà determination to keep thé holy places in Jerusa-  lem and the old country safe and accessible to all  friends from all parts of the world, They will conti-  : nue to bea source of inspiration for those ‘who want to  build the defences of peace in human minds, J
18,6 - ‘Mr, President, the present programine of  Unesco is very well planned, thanks to the Director-  General and the Secrétariat. ‘Although we do not, in  this General Conference," vote the work plans, yet I  ‘bellevo that thé work plans are’as important as the  resolutions we voté. -We have to admit that the imple-  mentation of ahy programme is'decéisive’ for its qua-  lity: ‘We hope that thé Member" Statés and the Secre-  tarfat will-handle this programme: in a ‘sincere Unesco  spirit arid with an intelligent international outlook,  high above narrow national prejudices and cultural:  ‘tribalism. The Secretariat shold bé given évéry assur-  ance dnd guarantee that they are free to give thelr ad-  vice and discharge thèlé responsibilities, | paying the  slightest niténtion té thedireétives of their respective  governments orof strong dnd influential Member States.  They are en instrumient of sérvice for thé whole wôrld  of éducatiôn, science and cuilire, and we are suré that  they will bo aware and ¢onscious of their mission, '  Small countries like mine find inthe Seérétariat à sym-  pathetié friendship which helps, and will céntinue to:  help, in the'solution of their problems and in thé disse-  mination of Unescots aims and ideals among the masses.  I, pi  ) lo. The PRESIDENT. (Translation from the Russian):  -1 thank the delegate of Jordan and now call upon the   delegate of Colombia, Mr. Uribe Holguin,  XIV
20, 1. Mr,. URIBE HOLGUIN (Colombia) (Translation  from the Spanish); . {> 11112 vo, 5  Mr. President, delegates, fortunately for Colombia,  its most distinguished oftizens are strongly imbued «  with thé idea that, in order to consolidate our demo-  cratio system; efforts to solve the problem of educa-  tion must také precedence over all others, More -  and better education is our motto, because education’  is a safeguard against innumerable dangers; it is ..  never an expenditure, but the most profitable of in- °  vestments; ‘There is no more powerful contributing  factor to national prosperity, peace and greatness,  Since the establishment of the Constitution of Unesco,  Colombia has always regarded the lailer as the body  most qualified to inspire and promote that fundamental  activity. -.
20,2 What practical steps have been taken during
1958 to give effect to these principles? Mr, Presi-  dent and fellow delegates, they are au follows: ---  (a) Doubling of the education budget, as compared  with that for 1957 - approved by an overwhelming  majority,  (b) - Application of the specific recommendations  relating to overall educational planning, prepared by  the office of Planning of the Colorabian Ministry of  Education, -  (c) Study of the reorganization of the educational  system proper,  (d) Tabling in Parliament of a Reform Bill on the  administrative structure of education in our country, -  (e) Study of the reorganization of the national budget  on mure technical lines, with a view to making it more  flexible and practical} .  .() ‘Another study on ways of obtaining new and  permanent funds for education, at the national level  and from sources presupposing assistance from other  Colombian public bôdies.-
20.3: My country is proud of the fact that; asa  result of repôrts by its representatives, the inter-  nationalization of overall educational planring, dis- .  -cussed at the ninth session of the Geñeral Conference  of Unesco in New Delhi; as well as at the Third Con--  gress of the Ibero-Ameri¢an Bureau of Education in  October 1857 and by the Intergovernmental Advisory  Committee on the Extension of Primary Education in  Latin America, was initiated in Lima during the  Second Inter-American Meeting of Ministers of Educa-  tion in 1956. .- .
20.4 Towards the middle of this year, an Liter --  American Seminar on Overall Educational Planning  was held in Washington under thé auspices of the  Organization of'Aniérican States and Unesco. One of -  ils main recomméndatiohs was that an Inter-American  Centre for the training of leaders in the fiéld of over-  all educational planning should be established; my  ‘country has proposed that the Centre's headquarters  be set up in Bogotd.: The idea is that OAS, Unesco,  ECLA and the Colonibian Government would co-  operaté in this project, -.
20.5’ Even at the risk of appééring ‘coñtelted,: I.  cannot refrain from quoting the following statement :  made at the Washington Seminar by the distinguished  Peruvian Minister, Dr. Jorge Basadre: "At the!  proposal of the Colombian delegation, educational’ -  planning was recommended at the mémorable meeting  of Ministers of Education, held in Lima in 1956,  Since then, there has been growing recognition of its      xiv PLENARY  A  importance throughout thé’ertiré Côntinent' We are  deeply committed to this principle, - oF Las
20,6 The fact that thé ided of over; d educational  planning is catèbing on in all'parts of the would will  be the latter's salvation, and to this Unesco has'al-:.  ready made à'éonsidérable, sincère and enthusiastic -  contribution, The Government of the Republic of Co-  lombia will, in the appropriate commissions and com-  mittees, desoribé néw aspects of the planning and.  Centre to'which 1 have just reférred, and they will  certainly bs wérimly approved, for they point to prgress.  My country has learned with great satisfaction that at  least twelve other countriés are organizing offices ot  overall dducational planning.  ~: + ©. _-
20.7: We are profoundly concerped with thé problem  of illiteracy, because of its inevitebly detrimental  effect on cultural arid economic life, and hence on the  standard of living, ‘and because it is'a very difficult  thing to eradicate; - In order to overcome this difti-  culty, Colombia ‘launched, in 1958, the "National  Literacy Campaign", which, in its early stages. has  already proved very effective. . .
20,8. ‘What is illiteraëy if not a number of problems  in one? For, in additionto the shortage of school  buildings, there is a shortage of teachers, school  furniture and teaching mater{als, Money would .  suffice to remedy this situation, except for thé short-  age of teachers, a problem which can only be solyed  by time and adequate training. / Colombia will make  every effort to form'a body of teuchers with unshakable  tdith in their. vocation; their training will obviously  have to be of a tedinical, : moral and intellectual nature,
20,9 Colombia is not only seeking to énsure that.  teacher training is better adapted to needs but that, it  also helps to improve the standard of teaching and the  social and financial position of teachers, the first  step being to introduce a single salary-scale for each  category. of teachers, In 1958, ‘a sum, in the form of  allowances, was allocated for that purpose, making  it possible in some cases to double salaries.
20,10 - The teachers! charter now being prepared  provides for further financial advantages and real  inducements for teachers. .-At the same time, teachers  are being urged to improve the organization of their  professional assoclatfons..; = ._- ..
20,11 -. The problem ‘ofthe construction of primary  schools has not been neglected; : a Government sub-  vention has been granted for, that purpose, and this  sum will havé to last for many years; although the  country needs 15; 000 new classrodms and 400 more  will be required yearly as à result of the constant  growth of. the population, Aid'is also given to school  canteens and other social ‘welfare services,
20,12 : This year; :the first “Pilot Primary Schools"  have been established; | they try out the changes recom-  mended by the Office of Educational Planning,: e.g...  introduction ‘of the “New Primary School Curficula",  whose novelty consists in standardizing primary  studies - which previously differed {n urban and rura?.  _ schools = by, tixing a uniform period of six years and ‘  thus putting an end to an odious and unfair situation  in which rural areas were at a disadvantage as compared  to Urban ones, 21 iil olf Lc a take
20.13. - It is now a year since the !'Institite for thé  Training of School Inspectors" was æstablished for the  purpose of preparing the future directors of primary  education: national and departmental inspectors,
226     MEETINGS  directors of school annexes; demonstration schools;  cto, - À new and more positive meaning has been given  to school inspection; henceforth, Instead of being  a mere matter of investigation, its purpose will also  be 4 give guidance to the teaching and administrative  st on 7 RE SU I + = - 1 2. vo MN
20, 14 : Such ore ‘our achievements in the field covered  by Unescots Major Project for Latin America; they  were made possible by the valuable assistance glven  to the Office of Planning and the Division of Primary  Education and Teacher Training of the Colombian  Ministry of Education by Unesco experts: .
20,15 Secondary education, which aims at provid-  ing basic general culture and school and vocational *  guidance, consists of two cycles; during the first  cycle, which is the same for all secondary school  pupils, adoléscents acquire the general knowledge  :  ornare given the mental {raining nééded for their.  : futrh'e tasks; during thé second cycle,: which involves  speclulization, pupils are given greater opportunities  to develop their personality and to take special sub-  jects fitting them for their probable future careers,  The characteristics of the second cycle thus vary  according to the nature of the caréers contemplated,  Studies for the "bachillerato” {secondary school  leaving certificate) correspond to thé traditional .  idea of secondary schooling; : teachér {raining Lo the  teacher!s future functions; - commercial, industrial,  agricultural or other studies to future activities in  those respective fields, ... > . oh
20, 16- - These two cycles will not come into effect,  however, until the results oblained al the Pilot -  "Bachillerato" Schools have been assessed and a  study made of the actual possibilities of the schools,
20.17 The technical side of secondary education is  not neglected, but, at présent, Colombia is devoting  its main efforts to the reorganization of the "bachil-  lerato' and rural education, -  .. : = nL
20.18 - Since 1056; two Unésco experts, ‘one on rural  education aud thé other on agricultural training, have  been stationed in'Colombia, and I am glad to'say . .  that we are already reaping the tirst fruits of their.  remarkable efforts: . I refer to the establishment of  the Pamplona Pilot Instituté of Rural Education, the  Pilot Rural Training School for Fundamental Educa-i  tion Teachers fn the arld zone.ôf Guajira, and the-..  Service for Training in Agricuifure and Cattle Breeding  in the Cundinamarca Municipality of Tabio; the pre-  paration of educational studies, surveys, plans and"  programmes; the planning of the reorganization of  the Department of Rural Education; assistance in  educational planning under thé programme for the  rehabilitation of areas affected by public disturbances,  and so on, at PRR UT 2 89 ;
20,19 | It is regrettable indeed that such valuable  co-operation will be ‘paralysed, as from 31 December  nexi, by lack of funds for Unesco's programme of  assistance to Colombia, : Lace SL
20. 20, .. Colombia has granted {is universities com-  plete independence, but this does not mean that the -  Government intends to take no further interest in - |  university lite, . This independence reflects the demo-  cratic spirit on which my country. prides itself, as  well as the firm’ conviction that a reasonable degree  of independence is necessary for the proper function-  ing of universities, . CL. ae . -
20.21 In Colombia, universities will play an   PLENARY MEETINGS  important part in the activitles of a national body it  * is planned to set up to co-ordinate and stimulate  scientific research, - ,
20.22 Unesco has just begun to give. further ‘assis-  tance to Colombia, by sending an expert to advise my  Government on the reorganization, of the Pedagogical  Universities of Bogotd and Tunja, and by carrying out  a survey with a view to the establishment of an Insti-  tute for the Professional Training of "Bachillerato"  Teachers, .
20,23 The Organizaiion’ has helped my. conte in  other ways; I} has sent us an expert to appraise the.  results of the Sutalenza educational broadcasting’ plan  and advise. the National Administrative Department of  Statistics, as well as two ‘other experts instructed to  give technical aid to the Pamplona Agsoclated Teacher-  Training School, Further, it has promoted a new  programme of assistance for the financing and admini-  stration of schools,
20.24 We ascribe such, importance to ihe work done  by Unesco's experts in ‘Colombia that a decree has  been passed, assigning them to the Office of Planning  where they form part of its staff, It is my pleasant  duly to declare that the work of Unesco's experts in  ‘olombia has been, and still is, of excellent quality,  ‘ad that we regard them as guides and helpers in our  present energetic efforts to reform our educational  system. - ¥ RP Soe at eo -
20.25 A little over a month ago, my Government had  the pleasure of welcoming Mr, Malcolm Adiseshiah,  Assistant Director-General of this Organization, who  wished to see for. himself how the mission’ s work in  Colombia was proceeding and to,contact the country's  educational authorities.” He, ‘visited the, : Pamplona  Associated ‘Teacher ~Training School and, in our. capi-  tal, was receiyed by ‘the Minister. of Education, -  Dr, Reinaldo Muroz Zambrano; established. ‘contact .  with the experts of that ‘Minisiry's, Office of Planning,  and expressed clear, precisé à and useful views on ,-  the relations between that Office and Unesco's experts.  We know that: our, distinguished, visitor was satisfied  with the work ‘done arid he offered words of encourage-  ment which did not afl in their, purpose,
20.26 On the instructions of my Government, | 1 now  present a summary. of its suggestions, to this distin-  guished gathering in, the -French, caplfal;” a) That  Unesco's Major Project for Latin America be strength-  ened;. .(b) That the establishment, ot! the Inter- wo  American Centre for the training of directors. of over-  all educational planning. be speeded up; - (c). That -  strong support | be given to the programme, of inter: …  national assistance for teachers!, in-service training,  recommended by the. Unesco Inter- -American Seminar  held In Montevideo in ‘October last; .(d) That: Unesco's  activities be concentrated in thé reglons where, they,  have already been undertaken, thus avoiding a danger-  ous dispersion of efforts and funds; (e) That an  international system for the financing of education be  organized, Coe ,
20,28, Mr, President; fellow delegates, I.  should lke to conclude . by ‘expressing my  Government's deep satisfaction at. having .  Mr. Berthoin, the distinguished French Minister  of Education, as President of this session- of  the General Conference of Unesco, whose  work he is conducting with unquestionable  skill and {mpartiality. .
221  xiv  The PRESIDENT (Transiation from the Russian):  I thank the delegate of Colombia and ! now call upon  the delegate of the Philippines, Mr. Lim.
22,1 “Mr, LIM (Philippines) (Transtation trom the  Spanish); -  Mr, President, fellow delegates; fhe: Philippine ,  delegation wishes first of all to extend to you the warm  greetings of the-Republic'ôf the Philippiries and of its  First Citizen and President, H,E; Mv,’ Carlos P,  Garefa, My delegation is also glad to express to the  Chairman and members of Unescots’ Executive Board,  as well as to the. Director-General and the whole of  his staff, the highest praise for their excellent pre-  paratory work which has so greatly facilitated the  holding of this tenth session, Further, my delegation  wishes to thank the French Government, the fine.  people of France and, ‘in particular, the delightful  Parisians, for. the cordial wel),0me and generous hos-  pitality they have extended to all of us hers, These  magnificent Headquartérs of Unesco, which will be the  scene of the many activities of this Conference, could  and should be a syinbol of hope for the millions of  persons throughout the world who have been forsaken  or led ‘astray, « > …
22.2 ‘ For us Fillptios, Paris conjures up happy  memories, It was in'this city; towards the end of the  Nineteenth century, that a small, but illustrioïs and  highly cultured group of Filipinos -:including Trinidad  H. Pardo de Tavera, Pedro A, Paterno, Antonio  Luna, José Rizal » studied or resided, It was also  here that one of the famous Philippine painters, Juan  Luna, completed some ‘of his masterpieces, including  "El Pacto de Sangre' and "La Batalla de Lepanto'}’  and others which were exhibited with giéat siiccess in  this eternally beautiful and flatteringly hospitable city.
22,3. Mr. President,‘ fellow delegates, the Phillp-  pine delegation reaffirms'once again its unshakable - -  faith in the principles proclaimed in our Organization's  Constitution. . For us, these principles dre not empty’  high-sounding words or mere pretentious phrases, ‘but  ideals based on faith and hope, They represent a pre-  cious treasure for mankind and offer us an imposing  array of intrinsié values. . Our faith in thése principles  is such that our minds work and our hearts beat in  complete unison with them, + -...
22, 4 ---In all modesty, we feel that we à possens: Annuin-  erable advantages enabling us to co-operate in the  achievement of the Organization's ideäls.‘: What are ”  these advantages? : From’ the material’ standpoint; my  country cannot compete with the. ‘world's gréat powers;  although it comprises 7,107:islands and islets, witha  coast measuring, from north tq ‘south; over a tholisand  miles, and with a'total area ét 114, 830 squâté milés;  i.e. an area somewhat. larger than that'rof- England and  Ireland together, but slightly less than that of Japan or  Spain, .José Rizal,. our national hero, rightly described  the Philippines as thé Pearl of the Eastern Séàs, for it  has been said of my country: "The Philippines are the  Philippines of 1500, 1890 and 1958; Christian, Moslem  and pagan cultures coexist in ah area of slightly more -  than 100, 000 square miles; a fuidamentally Christian  civilization maintained by Orientals in a'clearly  oriental setting, “Geographically, the Philippines are  situated in the Pacific Ocean;  culturally,:they âre ‘  at the crossways of varicus influences: ‘Eastern and  Western; old and new,"   XIV PLENARY MEETINGS
22,6 It is largely due to this enviable setting and  these extremely favourable ciroumstances that the  Philippines live at peace with the entire world; : Envy,  avarice, falsehood, arrogance, subversion and  oppression are proscribed from the country's inter-  national relations, for they militate against peace.  Our nation belièyes In the power of principles; «we  maintain that peace can be preserved only if sound  principles are the basis of human thoughts and acts,  We believe in the ideology of peace; all our efforts  are directed towards’ ity +
22,6. All this idealism is reflected in the attention -  we have given to education, science and culture =  Unesco's three baslo fields of work, = Owing to the -  wishes of our peoplé as well as to the express provi-  slons of.ouy Constitution, the-Philippire Government  maintains, - or has resolved. to maintain, a system of  complete and adequate public education, and also’  provides adults with a course . of training in the prin-  ciples of good citizenship, ‘Almost one-third of our  annual budget is devoted to the maiaténarite of our  public schools, and the number of pupils enrolled in  schools, anxious to develop moral qualities,’ self- -  discipline, their value as citizens and their professional  efficlency, represents a quarter to one-fifth of our  total population of over 22,600, 000, . Religious  instruction is given in all the schools, as an optional  or compulsory subject, according to whether the  school is undenominational or denominational, Never-  theless, there are still over 3, 000, 000 pupils of  school age unable to attend school owing to lack of  public funds,
22,7 Our Constitution stipulates that the State shall  promote scientific yesearch and encourage inventions,  and that it shall als6 grant adequate fellowships to  citizens particularly suitable for them, The 1958  Science. Law, approved, during the last sessions of our  Congress, which is represented at this Conferenée by  two of its eminerit delegates; Senator Da: Paz. M, de  Gonzalez and Mr.: Manuel Enverga, member of the  House of Representatives, has given effect to this  principle, . Aware of the close connexion bétween a  nation's scientific añd technical progrèss and its -  normal standard of living,’ and also of the fact that we  are about to enter the Age of Automation arid are  already encountering one another on the threshold of  outer space,. we have recently introduced a greater  amount of science teaching into all our schools, In  order to obtain the best possible résults, we are  integrating our programme ‘of vocational education  * with those in other field 3. . ‘Mere plans, however, are  not enough if there are ño funds to implement them,  and that is our present plight,
22,8 -. With regard to culture, our Government has  adopted a liberal as well as a farsighted policy. -  Under the Constitution, arts and letters are sponsored  by, the State, Our country has 24 universities and -  innumerable, colleges of higher education; These  universities; particularly the State University, enjoy  complete academic freedom. The State has also  provided fellowships and promotes literary and artistic  competitionsi-:." -
22,9 In Manila, the biggest city in our country, there  is an educational establishment -:the "Universidad  Real y Pontificia de Santo Tomés" - which was  founded in 1611, i.e; a quarter of a century  before the foundation of the oldest North American
228     establishment’ of  highér' education, Harvard University,
22,10" It should be noted that; English and Spanish,  as well as Filipino, which {s éur native tongue, bri’  used in teaching in all ‘our achools and colleges, rif  the lowest to’ ‘the  highést classes, It can thus be -  claimed ‘that ‘our young péoplé, if not linguists,’ have  a love of languages," Our Seopie understand and’  appreciate the value and use of words and when they  practise speaking other’ lariguages,’ it is not with  any idea of concealing their thoughts, but simply  because they realize that ignorance of for eign lan-  guages denotes ‘ignorance of one's own,
22,11 ‘ Fellow délegates, if I have ventured to -  ‘expatiate on'fhe’measurès adopted by my Government  in the fielda’of education, sclénce and culture, if is  because 1 wished to inform ÿoi of the extremely  modest and perhaps inadeqiiate fntelléctual, moral -  and spiritual reséurées which my country is ready  and anxious to contribute to the common cause -  Man's ‘etérnal search'for truth, =: =
22,12 The task will be’ ‘a diffiéult'ône; but let it  not be said that ii 1s ‘impossible, If wé all underlook  scientific studies and ‘applied’ thé results properly,  if we regarded education as a guaranties against  prejudice and intolerance, ‘thén we should discover  the common factors which sustain our efforts in the  service of education and culture,” It ‘cannot be ’  denied that a nation's level of progress almost always  depends upon the extent to which it Is awaré of its  affinities with othér nations. ‘Our main task is to  discover these affinities and do our utmost to foster  them. If we dévote ourselvés entirely to this task,  we certainly cannot and shall not fail,
22,13 ° On the other hand, if we do not pursué ‘our  efforts'to achiéve this’ “Univeral sympathy’ and under-  standing, if we do riôt convince ourselves that ‘civi-"  lization is one and indivisible, the world will éontinue  to bé the scene of conflict, corfusion and chaos,
22.14 We are happy té see from the Director-  General's voluminous repért that Unesco has devoted  its limé ‘and talents to the task of attaining’ these  objectives. We feel that this’ ‘document sheds con-  siderable light on the’ results’ sd far seéured by our -  great Organization arid We‘arè glad that our spending  budget was" approved this morning. We wish, how-  ever, to rake a few: observations,
22,15 Firstly; there is the ‘question of techhleal  assistance to inder developed’ areas,” Wé noté that °  the relevant appropriation tofals only $4, 600, 000 ‘”  and that this sum’ is distributed in very small amounts  among the beneficiary ‘coñntries. In’case it should  intérest you, 1 would point out that’ $35, 000 of this  sum is allocated to the Philippines.” It is well known  ‘that teéhrical training is costly, and, if the assistante  given'is inadequate, it is uselé ss to expect the  desired results,
22,16 - Secondly, theré 1s the programme tor pro-  viding the services of éxpéris. This is highly ;  commendable, for, as technical knowledge is of a  dissemination, * As regards the Philippines,’ we  repeat that we are glad to receive thé services of -  these experts, but for purely ‘practical reasons we’  should prefer lo see ah iricréase in the number of  tellowships for technical studies, I say for purely  practical reasons, because it'is four times as  expensive to send experts to à foreign country and   PLENARY  provide for, their maintenance. és‘if la to'maintaln :  fellowship-holders, duly selected for. ‘training in the  branches fn which those experfs are specialized, Let  us not forget that,’ for very ohvious reasons, an.  expert réquires a certain amount of time, varying ‘in  length, in order to acquire a det tailed knowledge of  the conditions obtaining à the foreigh country" to which  be is assigned, and that he leaves the latter as soon  as his appointment - be. it long : or short - comes to  an end, Fellowship- “holders, onthe other hard, re-  turn to their own country, in order Jo spread among  their tellow countrymen the knowledge they have ac-  quired duririg thelr period ( of training, |. NER
22,17 As for Unesco's three Major ‘Projets  relating respéctiyely to the Extension of Primary  Education in Latin America, Scientific Research on  Arid Lands, and Mutual Appreciation of Eastern and  Western Cultura) Values, only the third concerns the  Philippines but, We are sincerely glad that they have  been worked dut and adopled, “If fs our belief that  the benefits accruing | to certain’ ‘areas will in fact be  shared by the rest of the world,
22,18 Allow, me, however, torémark, ‘With regard  to the first of these Projects, that Asld 1s as much  in need ‘of assistance’ as any other part of the world,  We hope that, in the near future, similar’ aid will be  given to our region, ; Whilst it is truê that the Philip-  pines and other countries similarly ‘situated in thé  tropics have no arid zones, they have to contend with  just the opposite probl em, namely the excessive  humidity caused by destructive hurricanes and  torrential rain, ‘and, if Unesco were to devote itself,  in due course, to the task of resolving this serious  problem, it would thereby achieve one of dts funda-  mental objectives.  q e   MEETINGS     XIV
28:10; VAs Fégardg the’ third Project, we reaffirm  our sinceré intention of making our own small  contribution; for it is well known that my country  was, and still is, the melting-pot, as it were, of  Westèrn and Eastern cultures, which proves beyond  all doubt that cultural integration, intellectual and  ‘moral solidarity,” ‘and, ‘¢onsequéntly, a combination  of all cultures, are possible, - The Philippines have  shown that, from the cultural standpoint, East and  West do not exist, ..
22,20 Before concluding, I ‘should also like to  express our earnest hope that our region, which is  known as South-East Asia or Malaya, will receive  greatér ‘assistanée’ from Unesco, because this region  seems to haye been overlooked during the distribu-  tion of the privileged posts in the various organs,  commissions and committees of this Conference,  despite the principle of equality of opportunity which  should guide our Organization in all its acts,
22, 21 "Led, inspired and ericouraged by Unesco,  we are resolved, as individual nations, to devote  ourselyes to the task of making’ othérs’ \inderstand,  as best we can,’ the subtlér aspects of éur respective  racial characteristics and, in the days to come, ' in -  perfect härmony With the rest of rankind, we will.  live together" as brothers, ‘without distinction between  East and West, regardless’ of national boundaries,  social or racial differences, all equal and united, ©  though we hail from the furthermost corners of  the earth,” Thus, in héart, word and deed, as though  divinély inspired, we will have but a single objective  - to discover the most effective and satisfactory  solutions'to the problems confronting this Conference,  The meeting rose at 6,45 p.m.