5 December 1958, at 3,45 p.m,  President: Mr. Jean BERTHOIN (France)  "CONTENTS  Tributes to Dr. Luthdr H, Evans (continued) and Close of  the Tenth Session of the General Conference . . ... . .  TRIBUTES TO Dr. LUTHER H. EVANS (continued) AND CLOSE  OF THE TENTH SESSION OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE
1, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Ladies and gentlemen, ihe meeting is open. 1  call upon Mr, Kuznetsov, Head of the delegation of  the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
2.1 Mr, KUZNETSOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  I should like to say a few concluding words on  behalf of the delegation of the Soviet Union, before  we all bid farewéll and dis erse_ to our homes,
2,2 Now that the work of our Conference is conclud-  ing, I must orice again expréss our'great gratitude  to the Frenéh Government, the Paris municipal  authorities; and the French people as a whole, for  the cordial hospitality théy have extended to us here.  Ishould also like to associate myself with all the good  wishes that havé been addressed today to Dr, and  Mrs. Evans'and tü Dr, Veronese, And I think we  ought - also to offer our very. ‘sinèere thanks to ail  members of the ‘Secretariat’ of our.Organization, who  have taken great pains’ to faëtiitate the work of the  Confererice, I should Uke to offer special thanks to  the interpreters: | they are cut off from us by their  glass windôws, but ‘Wwe ate-aware of them, and hear  them, througtiout our “proceedings.” ‘Without them,  we must frankiy ‘admit,’ if Would have been difficult  for vs to carry on these important discussions. 1°  thank them sincerely, tor their useful work,
2.3 With’ your permission, I shall add a few brief  remarks to supplement’ what has already been said.  It has long been recognizéd that nothing in this world  lasts for ever; andT now our’ Conference has come to  its end,” An‘anciént philosopher has said that )  everything Is'in flux, everythiñg changes, and that  itis impossible to bathe twice in the same stream.  And indeed this'is perfectly true, as has been proved  by the éxperience of thousands of years. We fee!  its truth in'éur own work, in our own persons, In  realitywe are already not quite the same people we  werea hionth ago. Wehave got through a good deal  .of work - In our plenary meetings, in Commissions  and Committees, and in Working Parties, We have  worked hard, conscientiously, animated by the ideals  . set forth in the Constitution of our Organization. You
334  will remember that that Constitution lays down the  principle that peace must ‘be founded on the intellec-  tual and moral solidarity of mankind - a very im-  portant and very just principle, The Consfitution  says that the alin of our Organization must be to  advance, through the educational and scientific and  cultural relations of the peoples of the world, the  objectives of international peace and of the common  welfare of mankind, . Fine words, and admirable  ones, And it is these ideals by which we have been  imbued while working here for over a month, We  have tried to understand one another and to find a  better path along which to advance,
2,4 1may say that our common efforts found ex-  pression in the programme we have adopted for
1959-1960, and in thé speech made today by Dr,  Veronese, which gives grounds for the bellef that  we may discoyer this right path; ‘At least he 1s éager  to seek for thal path, uniting us all‘in the common  task, Of course we have had, still have, and shall  “ continue to have our differences of outlook and con-  flicting optnlônss but, as has. re, “parently  RAS  advance mae conlradictions and by ‘ovércoming -  them, It is by, ‘striggling with contradictions that  we move forward, so, {here is no reason to bé afraid  of contradictions; of divergent views, And it has  alsa,. and very. rightly, been sald here that there 1s  no need to simplify complex facts or to try to circum-  vent them; what we must do is, try to find the right  solution for the complicated problems by which we  are confronted as'a result of these facts,
2.5 1 should add that; ‘after doing some good and -  useful work,’ we “must ‘not rest on our achievements,  I feel it should be emphasized on this occasion that  we must not forget the constructive criticisms that  have been put forward from this rostrum. The  Executive Board, the Director-General and the  Secretariat as a whole. should treat these criticisms  without prejudice, ‘in a spirit of goodwill, should fry  to study them atteatively and reflect on therh, bear-  ing in mind that they were sincere and prompted by  a genulne desire to Improve our work,
2,6 I should like to say a few words about what,  in my opinion, should be borne in mind during  Unesco's future work, I think that, if our   PLENARY MEETINGS  Organization wishes to be'a true manifestation of  {ntemational fellowship, it must achieve real, genuine  univérsality.” It is necessary, it Is essentlal, to  find a solution to the question of accepting the People's  Republic ôf China as à legitimate member of the  - Organization, "= =
2,7 The sécond thing 1 should like to stress’ ‘today  is that 1 think we should not approach our practical  work from :the'standpoint of any particular group ‘ot  interest, which may make use of Unesco for mercen-  ary, selfish or reactionary purposes, In my opinion,  it is for us to rise higher, sea further,’ to be objective  and manly ih dealing with'the complex and conflicting  problems that confront us now and murt inevitably  continue to do'so. I should like again to emphasize  what has béen said heré today with great truth -  particularly by Dr; Veronese in his speech - that  what is needed is not to simplify complex realities,  not to seek, to achematize, but to face up to the  situation and arrive at an equitable settlement of the  questions and problems resulting front iv;
2,8 Thirdly, I should like to say that we must:  strive to make Unesco, to an ever-increasing éxtent,  a real platform for the idéas that animate the various  nations of the world, an organization in which all-  countries can réally work together in. the scientific  and cultural fields on a wide scale, - I think fe must  spare. no effort for this purpose, that we’ should devote  all our strength to it,” and that the bulk of dur Te-  sources should be expended for that 'purpése - the  developnient’ of extensive sé¢ientific and cultural  co-operation among all nations,” And to this end, in  my opiriién; we should be as bold and liberal as.  possible in ihvokirig the co- operation : of the demo-  cratic, progressive non-governmental organizations,  We must not bé afraid of them, we must not look  upon them as hotbeds of sedition, but must do our  utmost to draw them into Unesco's activities, - They  will help Us to solve dur ‘main problem.
2.9 Thé chief {/oint I should like to stréss in con-  clusion - one which I think it is indispensable for us  to bear in'mind at all times - is that our Organization,  established for scientific and cultiral to- opération,  should strive by’ every ! means to assist all the pro~  gressive elements’ among mankind’ In the struggle for  peaceful co- -existetice, “ ‘For peaceful ‘ co-existénce!  Only às an nstfument of peace can Unesco fulfil -  its lofty mission. : “Only by striving to promote’ peace-  ful co- -exisiëncé’ dah we Imprové our work and -  heighten’ still further its international significance.-  If we forget this, - even for a moment, if we are dis-  mayéd by the difficulty of the task, if we luil our--  selves with slogans of avoiding politiés and evade  this great problem, the greatest in the world, then  I am afraid we shall decline and accomplish nothing  of value, °
2,10 Our’ intssion is to proinèté' éultural and sclen-  litle co-operation for the well-being of ‘all mankind,  and the foundation for ‘such work can only be péace,  the peacetul éo-existeñce of all'péoples and ‘States.  I may Bay that my own Government, headed by one °  of the most distinguished of our active contemporaries,  Nikita Sergeivich Khrushchev, is constantly concerned  with this very matter, and its whole foreign policy  is constructed on'this peace-loving basis, I consider  that we should never for a moment forget that at the  present day there is nothing of greater importance
335  XXVI  than the preservation and consélidaflor of peacé,  There is no word that brings the people greater hope  than the word "peace", * In ail the langiages of the  world, in the mouths of all thé inhabitants’ of the  world, this word now comes foremost, Mir, Paix, |  Peace, Paz,’ Pace - or what you will = peace, peace’  at any price. That Is our main task, ‘May that word  be like à shining beacon, lighting our way. May it  burn like an \riquéñéhable star above this great  meeling-place of ideas, And in this connexion !  should like to conclude my remarks with the hope  that friendship and peaceful co-operation may flélrish  among all the nations, that every people in the warld,  great and small alike, may flourish and prosper, ‘and  that there may be peace throughout the world,
3, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French)i  I call upon Sir Yadvindra Singh Mchinde: Bahudur ’  member of the delegation of India.
4.1 Str Yadvindra SINGH MCHINDER BAHADUR  (India);  Mr, Président, tellow delegates; iadles and :  gentlemen, we are about to reach the‘end of our  deliberations. The last tive weeks have been a perlod  of notable‘Interest for all of us in Unesco; we have  come closer to éach other, delegates from Member  nations, the officials and staff of the Headquarters,  and the intellectual élite of this great city which has  held for us always a special Interest in matters of  culture and science,
4,2. AS we plan to depart for our respective coun-  tries, we look back with a sense of satisfaction on  the life of the past weeks, During this time.we have  renewed several old friendships ‘and made many new  ones, In the Working Parties, Commissions and ‘  Committees we havé come to khow'ore another well :  through our ditcussiéns, When we ‘disagreed it was  not without appreciation of the point of view gontrary’  to our own, Tolerance; sympathy,’ ‘undersianding :  and more than all,’ ‘good humour, have marked our  deliberations throughout, Mutual appreciation and  tinderstanding’ ol one’ ‘anothers’ points. of view and i a  common désiré to advance inteltéctüdi and ‘éestiietic  values drè. the prinéiples of ‘Unesco, ‘ ind’! have no  hesitation in saying that we ved éétording to those  princlplés during'this General Conference, = =
4,3 Atthis final plenary session ‘of the Conferénce  our thoughts türii to thé Diréctor-Generul,’ Dr. ‘Luther  Evans, who will be relinquishing hia ‘responsibilities  after this plenary session ends today.” On behalf’ of  the Iédian delegation and the ‘Government of india, 1  should like to pay high tribute to Dr, Evans,’ Who has’  conducted the affairs of oir Organization’ with etti-  ciency, tact and administrative skill; 7 His” services  to Unesco do not require to be described in detail -  here. One of the most spéctacular Is indoubtedly  the construction of this Headquarters; * a working  symbol of the, great ideals for which Unesco stands.  Of the working co-operation he bas established with  the Member States, the organization of the Major’  Projects and other notable achieyements, it is  unhecessary for me to speak as they are well’ known,  But there is one aspect of his work which I ‘should  like to emphisize; Dr. Luther Evans term as  . Director-General has been notabl } for the génuine  interest he has takeu in giving thé countries of Asia   xXxVI  and Africa their due place in the work of Unesco, .  There is: no doubt - that Unesco fs A Intergovernmental  organization, . that itis meant’ and was designed to  meet the interests of the peoples, The great majority  of the world's population live in Asla and Africa, and  in seeking to, bring.them inte closer association with  Unesco he has shown himself a man of. vision and  idealism, and has pointed the way. which, At it is  followed by his successors, cannot tail to advance in  great measure the ideals we have set before us, I  wish to express our sincere gratitude to him for his  great work In this connexion, We extend to Dr.  Lather Evans our sincerest good wishes for’ many  many years.of fruitfui service to humanity,
4,4 I must also, on behalf of my delegation, express  our thanks to thé staff of Unesco, whose work in pre-  paring the material for our discussions has been of  great assistance to us; they have worked hard to make  the session a success. and have. spared uo pains in  making the preliminary studies so essential for the  work of the General Conference, This tenth session  of the General Conference has been most fortunate in  securing you, sir, as our President for this year,  Unesco, beginning its activities in iis own premises  on the soil of France, could not have a better leader  than you, à distinguished citizen of this country, to  conduct its deliberations and plenary sessions. In  the midst of your many duties you have taken the time  to preside at sone of the most crucial sessions of this  Conference. . .
4,5 I should like also to express a word of welcome  to Dr, Vittorino Veronese as our new Director- General,  and to wish him success in the tasks that lie ahead.  With his close association of many years with Unesco  and his knowledge of its problems, we can legitimately  expect that his régime as the chief executive of our  Organization will see the further expansion of our  activities and, I hope, an increasing realization of  our co- operation, - All of us, more especially we of  the Aslan and African delegations, look forward to an  ever-growing “understanding of our probléms in the  educational and cultural fields, and a greater appre-  clation of the ‘moral values of culture, The future of  this Organization depends upon its universality, on  the emphasis’ it “places on mutual understanding and  greater appt ‘eclation of different cultures. We have  every hope thai these ‘deals which are enshrined in  the Constitution of Unesco will find increasing. realiza-  tion, Hence, I close with the invocation which our  sages have sung from ages, words that were spoken by  Dr. Radhakrishnan at the énd of his speech at the  inaugural, meeting of this Conference, and which were  referred to by our new Director-General: "May all be  happy, may all be healthy, May all see the good, may  no one be unhappy - peace, peace, peace'',  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French}:
1 call upon Mr, Hekmat, Head of the delegation of  Iran,
6.1 Mr, HEKMAT (Iran) (Translation from the  French):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, despite my  eagerness to take part in the work of the General Con-  ference from thé sfart of the session, as I have done  on several occasions in the past, I was prevented, much -  to my regret, from attending this tenth session earlier,  PLENARY. MEETINGS
6,2 lam glad, however, to be : able to be with you  on the last day of the session And to see how success-  ful the Conference's work has been under the enlightened  guidance of HE, Mr, Jean Bertholn, the French  Minister of Educatlon, --1 should like to associate  myself with the tributes paid to him and, through  him, to thank the French Government and people for  the warm welcome and hospitality x in their finest  traditions - which they have accorded us, , .
6,3 For those of us who, like myself, saw the birth  of Unesco at the London Conference in 1945 and who  have followed its development,- it is a great joy.to  see the Organization take up its Headquarters in this.  magnificent building and command the respect of the  entire world, _Steadily, day by day, It is asserting  itself as a moral force whose task it Is gradually but  surely to promote true international, understanding,
6.4 This morning, we attended an impressive and  moving meeting, .at which many, speakers paid tribute  to the work accomplished by Dr;. Evans who, by his  unwearying efforts, has so admirably served the  cause of Unesco, For several years past, both as  Chairman of the Iranian National Conimission, and on  my last mission to India, I have had the pleasure  of associating closely with Dr, Luther Evans and  having the opportunity.to appreciate’ his great qualities.  Feeling the affection and admiration I do for. him, I  cannot fail to speak of them now, in this assembly,
6,5 We have also heard the well deserved tributes  paid to the new Director-General, Dr. Vittorino  Veronese, and the good wishes extended to him for a  successful term of office, The remarks he has just  made at this installation ceremony are further con-  tirmation that the General Conference has found in  him a distinguished successor to such eminent men  as Julian Huxley, Torres Bodet and Luther Evans,
6.6 After hearing the preceding speakers, I think  I can do no better than assoclate the Iranian delegation  most warmly and whole-heartedly with the tributes  and good wishes which they have so eloquently  expressed,
6.7 Like several other delegations, 1 “should like to  tit  Lite  and efficient eye on the “execution of, the programmes,  helped in the ‘preparation of the future programme  and improved the working methods of this Conference  enough to make this séssion an undoubted success,
6.8 We congratulate § the new members of, fhe  Executive Board on their election, and express our  warmest thanks to the distinguished outgoing members,  who have served the Organization so, well for several  years past. If the honourable Chairman of the  Executive Board, H,E, the Ambassador Raadi, whose  term ot office has also just ‘expired, were not a close  friend and a distinguished fellow- -countryman of mine,  and if 1 did not fear to do violence to his well-known  modesty and preference for avoiding personal .  comment, I should have liked, in my turn, to speak  highly of him; but the deference which i'owe to the  Chairman of the Executive Board at the international  level obliges me to respect his wishes and remain  silent. He must allow me, however, to tell him  sincerely that his country has noted with joy and  pride the further token of esteem and confidence  which he has received from the General Conference  and the Executive Board. Iam sure that he will   PLENARY  continue to’ sérvé Unexols dduse in thé ‘capacity of -  Iran's permanent delégate’ to the’ Organization; Co
6.9 Mr, President, feilow ¢olleagiies,’ Iran,” which,  ever ‘since Uneico's establishment,” has deyôted its”  efforts to close éô- “opération with thé Organization,  will continue its ‘endeavours’ {4'this direction with ever  fresh enthusiasm,’ and the : fie, Diréctoy-General may  rest assured that hé will’ Tika our: ‘ardent’ support of  Unesco a new reflection of the’ ‘régard that countries  such as mine owe to him'persénally = -
6,10 It has frequently and rightly been sald that  Unesco, after twelve years! éxiatence, has "come of  age'', Although ‘coming of age has its’ advantages, it  also has its responsibilities,’ ‘We must face these  responsibilities resolutely’ so that, at the next session,  we - the Secretariat, the Executive Board and Member  States - may be able to congratulate ourselves on  having, by our achievements, shown ourselves equal  to the noble task that has been set us,
7,’ Thé PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call 'upon Mr, de Berredo Carneiro, Head of the  Brazilian delegation,
8.1 Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Trans-  lation from the French): * -  Mr, President, fellow delegates, in national and  interriâtional public serviée aliké, thé handing over of  responsibility’ at the highest level always gives rise  to conflicting feelings - regret and hope, sadness and  joy. The inspiring tone of this morning's meeting,  at which these conflicting sentiments were expressed  gave us all a sense of confidence in the future of our  Organization:
8.2 The ability to sorrow and'the ability to hope  are both needed if we are to live worthily, The  tributes paid to our former Director-General, Dr,  Luther Evans, and the demonstrations and expressions  of confidence in our next Director-General, Dr.  Veronese, will certainly carry the noble message of  this assembly to all our distant lands,
8.3  We'are suffering two losses, for the Chairman  of our Executive Board, the distingutshed Ambassador,  Mr, Raadi; who, trom the bégirining,‘ has’ guided and  enlightéried | us with his’ Wisdom, instinét with that  subtlefy with which iranfan poétry "and philosophy  have always enrichéd « or “minds! 18 also leaving us.  We shall never forget our ‘meeting {8 ‘tn Londén where,  Unescots hs Director- General, " Some of us who  were there are still with üs ‘today, You were there,  Mr. Raadi, and today | you can bear witnéss to the un-  remitting éttoits wè have ‘mâde'#{nce then to see  that Unesco fulfils the hopés which, ‘at that tire,  warmed our hearts and élevated our ‘thelights,
8.4 Ata ‘difficult’ ‘time, when an "eléction was neces-  sary,” it was to you ‘that the Board turned, ‘asking you  to direct’ our discussions in Cologne with that sense’  of fairness and impartiality which you have always  shown, With this tribute, you may rest assured, when  you leave; ‘that much of what you have given'us will  remain with'us and we shall always be more than  glad to welcome you, to listen to you and to profit by  your advice,
8.5 My dear Dr. Evans, for us you have been, not
337  MEETINGS XXVI  only the Direélor- Geheral of Unésda, Bhp rsonal  friend, “All thé ‘Countries ‘ot Latin Amerlta are'at  oné ini expressing théir- ‘atitude to you” ‘You know  the whole ‘of our’ ‘continent better than many of us’ -  do ourselvds, ‘you have béén evérywhère - from the  shores of the’ Atlantic to thôse of the Pacific, trom  the Argentine: pémpas to the Andean plateaux - and  everywhere you have left that same strong impression  of vigour, energy’ drid hope, which we owe perhaps  to your ative Texas,’ or Perhaps to your great  American ration;
8.6 In'a few nonthat time,’ the University of Bahia,  the ‘centre of Brazil's’ most’ ‘ancient ‘culture, is to  conveñé the ‘Foutih’ Luso-Béäzillän Symposium, We  have not forgatten that’ it was under your auspices,  in Washington,’ that thé first of these symposia was  held, and I havé the honour tô Invite you, on behalf  of the Rector of the University of Bahia, lo come to  Brazil next “August to take” part in this éprñpoetum  as our guest of honour, ‘Our agenda ‘will include a  tribute to Abraham’ Lincoln, ‘to mark the éne hundied  and fiftieth dnniversary of his birth, and it {8s indeed’  fitting that you; Dr, Luther Evans, should be asked  to speak in praise “of that great man of another conti-  nent,
8,7 The new Director- Geheral ‘of Unesco is heir  to a great tradition, The illistriois names of Jullan  Huxley, Jaime Torres Bodet and Luther X Svans have  already been mentioned,
8.8 You havé acéepted your task, Dr. Veronese,  almost under coercion, but you have accepted it with  a full appreciation of the great responsibility ft  involves. Since your acceptance, you no longer  belong to yourself; you no loriger belong to that  beautiful, smiling country of Italy which was your  birthplace: you belong to the whole of mankind, and  it is in its name that you will henceforward serve  the community of péoples, ‘
8.9 You have experienced tyranny; you Hved through  the dark years when thé enlire ‘world wae threatened  by a hideous dictatorship; ‘ We are conviticéd theré-  fore, that you will be ever vigilant to defend all the  freedoms, You will be the architect of a world where  theré may be’ fronilers, but at least no curtains, a  world in which we may be able to establish'a fra-  ternal interchange; * You belong to'a ‘country’ where ’  diversity of opinions and diversity of ciistoms are  accepted and respectéd, ‘provided they do riot violate  that fundatriental hurnan freedom which is the pre-  requisite for any discussion and interchange,’
8,10- You suffered, Dr. Véronese, from the dread-  ful tragédy of thé war. ‘You saw your éountry laid  waste; you saw invaders o ) those Italian roads where  Dante ‘once wandered arid which still bear the foot-  prints of Saint Francis of Assisi, the saint among’  saints; you'saw your Italy’ tavaged and tor; you  will thereforé be à defénder ‘of peace, .And it ls as’  the champion “of freedom ‘and the champion : of peace  alike that we welcome’ you here, ‘ In addition to  safeguarding thé’ great spiritual values In the name of  this community of peoples | ‘rallied round Unesco,  you will, 1am sire, bear constantly’ in mind the  great contemporary problems’ and distresses of the  masses - the workers, peasants and unfortunates  who are somélimes stirred by revolt because they  are a prey to hunger and ignorance. You will there-  fore be called upon to assume ever greater   xxvi  responsibilities, . sue ANR inièiteôfual matters.  and.in the congtant’ eff ort. 9, meet, ms 's Immediate  needs. The hui an, ra¢ hat you âre to sorye, does  not consist Qnly of our: My vifig contemporaries; it.  goes far back into the datant past. and Includes both.”  the illustrjous, dead, :and the ‘épming generations, as  yet unborn, - whe will be the Workers,. of tomarrow,  Give eur to (hese ‘murmurings front he, past, give  heed to these echoes that reach j py fram the apcient  theocracies of the Orlent,, passing through the  glorious Greco- -Rémañ past in which you have your.  share, the grandeur of the Middle Ages, and the  birth of modern times with the, Renaissance - first  n'Italy and then throughont the world -, to come at  last to our own day, when technology, . thanks, to this  boundless spiritual, and Intellectual heritage, is creat-  ing a world in which man will be able to live free  from care,
8,11 | You wil} be the. guide of ihts “Wandering host  of the dead and the living. ; You will be the leader of  those who are about to make ihis, atfempt ‘ onthe  heights of the. world,” and, “ip qyder, to carry out this,  the noblest'of any “mission fox à man of our time,  you have only to draw inspiration from the glories of  your own past, Which of us can forget the magnifi-  cent lines in which Virgil spoke, of the mission of  Rome?’ Which of us could desire a finer slogan  for Unesco than the one that he gave Rome in its  great civilizing task. Who could be more fitted than  you, Mr, Director-General, to inscribe above the  portal of Unesco words which are the key to the  resurrection of mankind: Pacçisque imponere morem,      The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon Mr, Calcagno, Head of the Argentine  delogatlon.
10,1 Mr, CALCAGNO (Argentine) (Translation  from the Spanish); = |  Mr, President, Aréentins warnily endorses, the  enthusiastic tributes paid by this ‘assembly to the  unremitting efforts and consfruclive work of Dr.  Evans’ as head of Unesco, ‘and also - ‘astis’ only just -  to his charming wife, who has beon associated with  all his achievements, Argentina also’ shares the  hopes and food » wishes expressed for the continuation  of Unesco's work under the leadership of the new  Director-General, Pr. Vittorino Veronese, with his  brillant intelligence and extraordinarily dynamic  personality,
10.2 But | have another reason {of coming to this .  rostrum - a reason connected with the work Unesco  has been doing, over the, past eleven years, to  promote and secure reçognitjon for intellectual  activities.
10,3 .. Ladies and. gentlemen; towards ihe end of ;  October, when we wère completing the preparations  for this tenth session of Unesco's General Conference,  there died two Mlustrious Latin American intellec- ‘  tuals, both distinguished for their Infinite kindness  and the aysterity of their lives. One was the famous  Salvadorean Jurigt, José Gustavo ‘Guerrero, whose  happy. combination of ability, learning and prestige  won him a place, for more than a quarter of à century,  as a Judge, and President, of the International Court  of Justice at The Hague - of the former Court as  well as of that established by the United Nations -
338  PLENARY MEETINGS.  and who, in the, discharge, of Bs, High ‘Fudetions, Aid  much to reconoîlé the peoples and the nations, The  second was the distinguished Costa Rican teacher  and educailonist, Joaquin Garoià Monje, : who dled  on 31 October: ; many of us hee had the good fortune  . to appreciate his great qualities by personal …:  acquainiance; ; before, Unesco started its: ‘great.  campaign, ho was the standard-bearer’ of culture ;  in our. céntipent throug gh his famous periodical, the  “Repertorio Americano”; which he selflessly  financed for almost forty years, qut of the meagre  salaty he received as a {eacher, making thereby a  unique contribution to the intellectual ties between  the Latin American countries, and between them  and our mother country, Spain, The "Repertorio  Ameficano! was the constant champion of human  rights. Lo
10,4 As a. representative, of Argentina, * “and with  the unanimous support of the delegates of. the other  Latin American countries, Spain and the Philippines,
1 propose that the tenth session of the General Con-  ference of Unesco ‘should record, êts récognition of  the work of justice, truth, goodness and brotherhood  - in fact, the work of culture - accomplished by  these two enlightened men and that it should convey  this tribute to the governments of their respective  countries. ‘
10,5 Iam well aware that other distinguished  people who have Fecently . died have outstanding  claims entitling them to a similar tribute on this’  occasion - for example, the late Lord Cecil, the  Nobel Peace Prize winner - and, as I realize that  other delegates might well recommend paying such  a tribute to that venerable figure, I would link his  name with those of the two Latin Americans I have  mentioned,
11, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon Mr, Mac-Lean y Estenos, delegate of  Peru,
12,1. Mr, MAG- tb kivy SstENOS (Peru) (Trans-  lation trom the. Spanish):  Mr, President; fellow delegates, at ‘this formal  closing meeting of the tenth, session of the General  Conference, to rom hela at a time of crucial  known, An old hd .  civilization is de nitty on ihe wane, together with  all the old ideas, ‘institutions, ways of lite, egoisms  and rules of conduct, both Individual and collective,  that went with it; Sma a hew od. with prospects  nc a
12,4  at the beginning ot one of, the. most’ extragrdinary  transformations of its own structure, | ! -Never. before.  has {ts transformation produced such a ‘profound .  and radical crials, nor affected the decpèst roots  of society, the very pith and marrow of culture,  the underground foundations which, seemingly firm   PLENARY  yesterday but no loriger 56 today, support the entire  structure of community life, "=
12,5 Don Quixote and Sancho Panza haye ceased to  converse tranquilly and are engaged in an angry and -  aggressive dispute; The’ gardéns of Academus have  been transformed into the camp of Agéamantez:-. + .  Ormuzd and Ahriman will'allow no truce in their . -  eternal struggle with each other, Cain and Abel; for- '  getting once again that they are brothers, are reddeén-  ing the earth with the blood of their fratricidal stéite,  And one need not be à pessimist to acknowledge that,  in certain parts of the world, the terrifying echéés of  the galloping ôf the tour horsetaen of the Apocalypse  are to be heard.
12,6 The present- -day world is faced with the ter-  rible choice between "to be" and "not to be", between  life and death, .bélween progress’whith may open up  almost unbelievable prospects of achievement and -  total destruction’ which may annihilate all and trans-  form our planet into a cosmié necropolis spinning  funereally through space:-. = ,
12,7 The responsibility of man was therefore never  before so gréat as it is today, Let us face it resolute-  ly, with faith in our own mission ‘and in our own  destiny. Let us not shrink from the difficulties, even  if they sometimes tower up before us like inaccessible  mountains, for nothing is beyond. man's reach when he  shows tenacity, energy and tesolution.: Let us fashion  the human soctety of thé future, that of our children  and our children's childrén,. in accordance with the  highest spiritual values and the sublime’ code of human  rights which was set forth by France, two centuries  ago, on à certain night that was decisive for the’  history of the world, and adopted as a ‘universal decla-  ration ten years ago by the United Nations. Let-us  lay the foundations of this futuré human society so  that the generations who come after us will be able to  live free from fear, distress and poverty;" frée to  el  believe in their own faith without incurring punishment; -  free to ‘establish a home and to récelve education  without any arbitrary discrimination; free to‘devélôp  their individual éréative powers In their ideas and ‘  their works, without any kind of direction or hindrance  from without; ‘free; in short,’ with that freédom which  is the necessary ¢limate for any existence worthy of  man; which 18 inherent in human individuality, an °  {inalienable right of all communities, ‘and without which  life 1s not worth living, men are unworthy of tie name  of man and peoples unworthy to call themselves -  peoples, - - .
12,8 Fellow delegates, Peru wishes evils success  to the Director-General, Dr, Vittorino Veronese,  who is taking up his new duties today in such auspi-  clous circumstances and who has already glven proof.  of his great human qualities; it expresses its faith in  the great destiny of- Frante, where our Organization  has its headquarters and which fs represented here  by a brilliant delegation under the distinguished leader-  ship of the Minister of Education; and; lastly, it  hopes that Unesco will be able to ¢arry out its univer-  sal mission, which represents the present generation's  most generous efforts after mutual understanding  and the brightest hope of the coming generations,
13, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon Mr, Mackenzie, Head of the Canadian  delegation,  MEETINGS
339  XXVI  ME MACKENSIE" ere ae 5 ITI ;  ‘ en of eee GE th like Mr. Mhc- Lean ‘the’  delegaté of-PeFu!- | hdyé come a long wey from the  Pacific shores 6f Amgifea
14,2 - This his béén for med tebciräling expérience,  and Ît has convinced me of the’ iipbiinice and the ‘  complexity of the work which’ this’ Organization’ is"  engaged in - work, fhat {54s Wide and as’ great, fs the  world itself; ahd as the lite of mii fn thal world.  It is in this ght’ EL 1 Soir like to suggest (6 dur  new Directof-Géntral that,” In dealtng with this midst  difficult and eémpltéatéd | dk," he ahoûld Sheds ab  completely and as fullÿ'äs possible the may rmèh” ot  and women la the miañy Member’ éountries of this’  world who are ‘intérésted In thé thiñgé that Unesco °  stands for; and'shotld engage; eo, the Interest” -  and participation of the dgericiés and obganizätiôné  and Institutions ih those countries whieh” are in thèir  own wayé promoting thesé sae’ interests, ‘Because,  ladies and gentlemeh, our task is éd great that no  institution, however good, ard nô man or group of  nen, However wise and able, can aldie hope to cope  with {t. For me, thé most important and effective  thing that Unesco ¢an do Js to bring together the  goodwill, the knowledge,’ the ability, thé activity  of all those in all our Member countries who are  concerned in their own ways with the matters for  which we stand.
14:3 Now, on behalf of Cariäda and our detégation,  I would like to extend té Dr, Luthér Evaiis and Mrs,  Evans our thanks, and bid them both God-speed in |  the years ahead; ‘I would also express the Rope that  they may have occasion to visit some of their friends  throughout the Member States of Unesco, and in my  own case, Canada,’
14.4 To Dr, -Véronése go our good wishes, and our  assurahèés that in the very difficuft task that he has  undertaken, to the best of our ability, wé in Canada  will do what we can to help with'the work 1h whféh he  is engaged, We, llke you, hope that if may be pès-  sible for him, th due course; to visit us, It he does,  we assure him of a'wärm welcome; and we assure  him too, that those of us who have been heré will  keep in mind the nature and the importance of the  task in which he is éngagéd, and do what we can to  further the ends to which he has now agréèd to devote  his life, his efforts, his energies,” his capacities,  his gifts, And so, to the few Diréétor-Gensral, we  extend good wishes, hopes for success, and Assurance  of support and co-operation to the best of our abilities,
15. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon Mr, Lim, Head of the delegation of  the Philippines.
16, 1 Mr, LIM (Philipplhos): +  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, the Philip-  pine delegation’ cousiders it an honour and privilege  to have been glven this opportunity to make à few  remarks on this significant occasion, We are here  to give due consideration to the outstanding service  that Dr, Luther Evans, a great American and à  distinguished citizen of the world, has given during   XXvl  his term ai office as Director- General of this. great  Organizatl on y Dre Evans! terme of f office + comes to an  end as the tenth Session of the. General Conference  reaches’ its brilliant conglusions.; ;He ‘has given to -  Unesco his inspired leadership. ahd, to, its efforis In  the Headquarters and in the, far-flung projects all over  the world, intelligent md constructive direction, : His  unflinching devôtion to the, Preamble ‘and Qonstitution  of Unesco, which he unceasingly, strove to translate  {nto reality in terms of concrete projects for the  furtherance of international understanding through  education, science and cyltyre, his unalloyed humility  and sincere friendliness, -and his complete impartial-  ity and fairness in making important. decisions and  choices, haye, endeared ‘him to al} the friends of  Unesco everywhere, a nd Yo his associates in the vast  human enterprise that is, Unesco,
16,2 . The Philippines, has a special affection for  Dr, Evans and reason to be grateful to him, for  during his term of office we, were the recipients of  substantial , Unesco s.gslsfance in terms of technical  ald, fellowships, travel grants and outright sums  that have undoubtedly contributed to the acceleration  of our local efforts, to improve the quality of educa-  tion, science and culture in our own country, . In fact,  Dr. Evans helped us rehabilitate the National Library  long before he became Director-General, in his  capacity as Librarian of Congress, .
16,3 For all this, allow me, in the name ot my  country and its delegation, to add our most sincere  congratulations for his exemplary record, and join  the previous speakers in all their best wishes that have  been showered upon Dr, and Mrs, Evans, with the  assurance that they will always find among the Fili-  pinos true and loyal friends. * . |
16,4 Now, following the example set by Dr, Evans,  allow me to use another of the official languages which  is spoken in my country, .. > : - At: .
16,5 (Translation from the Spanish);. -  Nevertheless, - our regret at losing the direct co-  operation of Dr. Evans; as Director-General:of this  Organization, is tempered by the knowledge that his  worthy successor. also’ possesses excellent qualities  end has an outstanding reputation, Dri Vittorino .  Veronese, a gentleman in the truest sense of the term,  punctilious, highly, skilled In) matters concerning  Unesco; who has glyen a, brilliant account of himself  in important and delicate assignments. in the educa-  tional, scientific and cultural spheres, both in his own  country and as a member of various Unesco bodies,  today becomes our, new Director-General, We  pledge him our humble and fervent support, in full  contidence that à rie will nol merely continue and expand  the many programmes and activities initiated by his  predecessor but will also, with that zeal, honesty and  ; skill for which he is well known among us, lead us  on toever greater heights.;: .. .
16,6 The Member States of which the happy family  of Unesco is composed will,. I am confident, as in  the past, afford our new Director-General the .  unstinting ald and. co-operation which has always been  one of the main features of their relations with Unesco.  May God, . in his high purposes, grant Dr. Veronese  the health, wisdom and prudence he needs in order.to  succeed in his new task, for the enhancement of his  own reputation, and the glory of his country and the  world at large,
16.7. My mission, or rather the mission entrusted  to me by my delegation, wit not be complete unless  we also express our most sincere congratulations to  the President of this Conference, His Excallency  Mr, Jean Berthoin, Minister of Education of France,  whose valuable leadership contributed so much to-  wards our general success and the happy conclusion  of the Conference.
17, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  - I call upon H,E. Mr, Rosal, Head of the delegation  of Guatemala.
18,1 Mr, ROSAL (Guatemala) (Translation from  the Spanish);  Mr. President; ladies and gentlemen, it was with  deep emotion that I listened this morning to the  speeches made by those who have preceded me on  this rostrum, and I should like now to say a few words  to express my heartfelt endorsement of the tribute  of friendship, affection and gratitude that has so  deservedly been paid to Dr,’ Evans for the distinguished  work he has done as head of Unesco over a-period of  more than five years, I should also like," 6n behalf  of my delegation, to expréss the feelings which over-  come us at seeing him quit this Organization to which  his great talents have given added lustre, ‘I wish to  assure him, however, that although he and his dis-  tinguished wife are departing from Paris, they will  continue to live in spirit in this'building, in which they  are leaving behind imperishable memories.
18.2 I would now like in my turn to convey my  best wishes to Dr,. Viltorino Véronese,: who is today  taking up the difficult office of Director-General of  Unesco, and to say that we are confident that; with  a pilot so skilled ahd highly qualified’as Dr. Veronese,  Unesco will go on from strength to strength,
18.3 . And now thdt we are about to disperse, not -  without a certain feeling of sadriess; after a month  spent in this beautiful building, in an atmosphère of  friendly unity fully in keeping with the spirit of ~  Unesco's Constitution and the principles ft follows,  I have one small -siiggestion to make,‘ :
18, 4 .:::Wèe have dll of us admired a tine collection of  crystal here in Unesco House, entitled "Asian Artists  in Crystal", - - It seems that,” after-thé Conference,  this collection is to be disperséd,’ since the United  States Government is presenting all the exhibits to  the governments of the countries of'Asla, I would  like to propose that those countries make the Organ-  ization a gift of them, so that this fine colleétion can  remain in- Unesco. "At the same time, 1 beg to  suggest to the United States delegation that arrange-  ments be made for producing a similar collection  for Latin America; to which,‘ 1 am sure, all our  great Latin American artists would be glad to con-  tribute,
18,5 And now,‘ before we part, 1 would ask you  all to join me in a warm voté of thanks to  France, immortal, - beautiful France, ‘which has  ‘extended such generous hospitality to us in this  House and inthe enchanting, historic city-of  Paris,
19, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French);  I call upon Mr. Tuncel, delegate of Turkey.   PLENARY
20,1 Mr, TUNCEL (Turkey) (Translation from tie  French): .  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like,  on the gccasion, of the installation of the new Director-  General, to say a few words on behalf of my delega-  tion,
20,2 1 do not wish to trespass unduly on your time,  and shall therefore confine fayself to saying that we  are sircérel pleased at thia feltcitous choice; and  are firmly ‘convinced that De, Vittorino Veronese's  pre-erifnent Qualities are such as to fit him for his  new functions BL a ‘
20,3 I feel. impelled, on this solemn occasion, to  cite the brilliant trinity of Directors- General - Julian  Huxley, Torres Bodet and Luther Evans - who have  so splendidly contributed to the progress and prestige  of our Organization, : J
20, 4 ;, We have already expressed our thanks to  Luther ‘Evans, ‘to whom we are beholden, in particular,  for the happy. development of Unesco's relations  with its Mémber States and especially, with their  National Commissions - a development which, in our  view, Is one of his most ‘oulstanding successes.
20,5 We firml ; belleve that the past. five years have  cerned, and ‘we owe cn to the clear- ightedness,  zest for work and: pragmatic mind of Luther Evans,
20,6 Those aré thé’ features,” we feel, which most  strikdngly and enduriigly characterize Luther Evans,
20,7 We are pleased to hail,- in his successor, one  of the most accomplished l'epresentatives of that  Western world. culture, that treasure of the human  mind amassed through the ages by dint of so much  high endeavour, which so richly warrants preserving  for the benefit of ail mankind, ;
20,8 ‘We stilt ‘believe that man's “salvation: Îles in  the strength of the’ spirit, . -and above. all, the spirit  of mutdal understanding betwee, the peoples, And  indeed, the pew Director: General belongs to a coun-  try which’ has always been’ outstanding for its stead-  fast respect for spiritual and intellectual values, - + In  an age afflicted by warring factions, itbeems to us  more imperative than ever that thèse values be safe-  guarded and maintained, and we are confident that the  new Director- General is one of their’ most valiant  defenders, This constiiutes, w e consider, more  than sufficlent guarantee for the continuity of a  tradition and the success of an Organization with  which our country has more ties than one,
20,9 We, are pleased at this choice, since we be-  lieve that Dr,: Veronese will be able to safeguard  those enduring spiritual values to which, unfortunately,  the modern world perslsts in attaching less and less  importance,
20,10 In conclusion, I would venture, ‘gentlemen,  to remind you that we are now experiencing - or, to  be more exact, suffering from - the supremacy, of  utilitarian, short-term values;- whereas spiritual  and intellectyal : ‘endeavour is not necessarily always  concerned with utilitarian goals, It therefore  behoves us,. now and again, at least - as was 50  aptly remarked by one of the subtlest minds of France,  a country which has produced an extraordinary  wealth of fine and original minds and which is also,  henceforward, the permanent Headquarters of our  Organization - it behoves us, I say, to ponder
341  MEETINGS     XXVI  seriously, from time to time, on the necessity of  non-utilitarian values, of spiritual endeavour, where-  in lies the only hope of man's salvation,
21, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I now call on Mr, Awad, Head of the delegation of  the United Arab Republic, .
22,1 Mr, AWAD (United Arab Republic): ;  Mr, President, according to the Arab poets,--  nothing is more painful than the separation of lovers;  Indeed, as one of thern aptly said: "but for thé pangs  of the separation between us and our lovers; death  would never have found its way fo our ‘souls!I, -.
22,2 We are now faced with a very mild torin of  separation, because modern transport: will make  it possible to bring ayone from anywhere to any-  where else. But ‘nevertheless, although" it ‘might -  be incongruous to speak of Luthér Evans and thie +  Arab countries as loyers; there'is no doubt thät love  is the sentiment which binds him to them, They‘  have learned to love him in the course of several  years of close, active and sympathetic collaboration,
22,3 Luthér Evans is a native of a country called  Texas, & country which must not on any tônditton‘  be confused with its neighbour, which is known as  the United Statés, Nevertheless Texas, a separate  country, has managed to maintain very good relations  with its big neighbour, the United States of America;  and this country of Texas was the cradle in which  Luther Evans learned his early lessons in ding  so amicably and harmoniously with foreigr ‘ vuntries,  by the direct experience of how to deal witn’ foreigners  so near to his native land, This amply qualified him  to deal with the different Member Stat¢s which are  even more heterogeneous than his closest neighbours,  It was- thus appropriate that Luther ‘Evans was  chosen for his post in Unesco,
22,4 But before that he was chosen as Director of  the Library of Congress, a post Whléh. ‘again brought  him right {nto the midst of all the cultures of all the  world, As thosé of you who know something about  the Library of Congress will realize, there is no  space in the world ‘of similar size in which there is  such ah éhormous accumulation of thé bes! creations  of the human spirit from all lands and from'all  cultures, - That ‘experience was another factor in  the formation of Luther Evans. Thus, he was amply  qualified for his post of Director-General of Unesco,  by his Texan birth, » his good neighbourly relations,  and his experience as Librarian of Congress.”
22,5 I first cume into contact with him in this .  capacity as Librarian of Congress when the Library  of Congress undertook, in collaboration with the  University. of Alexandria, thé task of micrr*ilming  the manuscripts of the Monastery of St. Catherine,  in Sinai. Iwas then President of ‘Alexandria Unt-  versity and helped.to organize the celebration at  which a gift of all the microfilms of this famous  collection was made by the Library of Congress to  the University of Alexandria,
22,6 Luther Evans, as Director- General, wlll  always be remembered among my countrymen and  all the members of the Arab States, and in all  cultural areas of Arab lands, for his promo fon  of the work among Member States and of thé projects  carried out in all countries. The Arab world   - XXVI PLENARY  became inèreasingly Unesco“ consélous’ after the -  accession.of Mr, Torres'Bodet, but‘thls development  was immensely acceleñated under his illustrious:  successor, -Therefore, on behalf of the Arab dele-  gation, I have’ the honour ld éxpreds to Dr, and Mrs,  Evans the besf and heaitiest wishés foi even more  prosperous and {illustrious years to’‘come, 1 think  I shall not give lri to the feelings which Arab poets  have expressed on the theme of the’ pangs of separa-  tion: I cannot’ think about: Luther Evans and be sad,  because whenever I think about him; all'at once |  shall be héariñg again that famous laughter of his,  which is s0 éhormdus that it will’continue to ring in  my ears wheneyer-l hear his nanie, - You canriot-  think about Luther Evans but féel happy:
22,7 .:-The legacy which is being handed over to the  Organization by Dr, Luther Evans is entirely safe in  the händs'of his siiccessor, Dr; Viitorino Veronese,  He is also very well known to Arab countries, has  been very diligent and energetic as Chairman of the  Execullye Board and in participating in our cultural  activitiés, and in visiting our lands he has won many  » friendships, += ’
22,8 -We had tô go across, the. Atlantic to tind Dr,  Luther Evans, but we have only te go across the -  Mediterranean to find Dr, Veronése, -Italy and the  Arab countries are very closely linked; ‘ I think one  ancestor from the United Arab Republic was actually  an emperor in Rome, : Now we-shall have Dr, Vero-  nese ! as our emperor here in this Organization, and  he must not forget thé ancient attachinent and feeling  . of friendship which we all have for him, - 1 shall not  prolong this spéech, Mr: President, in view of the  fact that the session is rather late, but I do not wish  to leave the platform without expréssing, on behalf  of the different Arab delegations, our feeling of -  gratitude for the past and our hope for the future.
23,  I now call upon the last of the speakers on the list,  Mr. Parra Perez, delegate of Venezuela.
24, 1- Mr, PARRA PEREZ (Venezuela) (Translation  from the Spanish): '  Mr, Presidejit, ladies and gentlemen, although the  delegation of Venezuela had an opportunity this morn-  ing of enthusiastically joining in the tribute paid and  the ovation given by the General Conference to Dr,  Evans for the work he has déne, Venezuela hag not  yet explicitly paid; in words, the debt of gratitude  which, .as a Member State of Unesco, it owes to the  eminent man who {s now relinquishing the office of  Director-General, : ,.. '’ +
24.2: As a constant witnèss'of Dre Evans! work in  all its forms, and haying enjoyed the additional  privilege of collaborating with him in some of his  activities, it glvés'me gréat pleasure at this time to  express anew our uhbounded appreciation of the ser-  vices he has rendered to Unesco ard its Member  States over 86 many years." Few people havé brought  to international work so many qualities as Dr, Evans,  and our Organization has'indeed been fortunate in  benefiting from his abilities, Mr, Seydoux today  described him as a "great. builder" and we all feel  that this term applies to more than the fact of having  raised this building which now serves as the Organi-
2ation's physical Headquarters, for the programmes  “The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  MEETINGS
342  ! and good luck/" Best wishés/ Dr,’ Veronese,  framed and executed by thé‘reffring Diréttor- General  in collaboration with the Executive Board bear ‘witness  to his achlevemeit and do credit to thé" éfforts of a  ‘man whose engaging gentality’ = Agreeably erhbellishes  his ‘foreefulness and ‘sound thinking, ‘7; ="
24,3 Dr, Evans is now leaving this large, expafid-  ing organization in thé éxpért’ hands of Dr, ‘ Veronese,  to continue ahd chrry forward the Wotké* The dittér-  érices of charactei’ ‘and léimperament bi fii één'théde  two men emphasize the fattthh{/"hovérthéléss, both  have brought thé same high ideals to the service of  Unesco, And it is natural that, whilst bidding the  one farewell with feelings of. deep’ gratitude, we  should welcome the ottier with; the fullest and’ wirm-  est confidence; “Mahy, ‘mainy thanks" Dr, Evans, ‘
24,4 Mr, President," the delegation of Venezueld  has much pleasure In associating 1tsélf with thé --  tributes which'hdve been paid to Franéé, té thé French  Govermmènt and té Your Excellency for the hospitality  afforded t6 the ‘Conferénce; and In’émphasizihg énce  again the deep gratitude and appreciation ‘ot Unésco  and its Member States for the invaluable copitribu-  tion this great country’ of France his made’to our  Organization, "And we owe a debt’ of gratitude also  to you personally, Mr: President, for the skill, tact  and good humour with which you have presided over  the debates of this Conference, Pray receive our  thanks,
24,6 Before leaving this’ fostrum 1 Should lke,  too, to endorse, ‘vii the’ Veriezuelah delégationts -  behalf, the tribute paid by the Argentine’ elegatin  to the memory of two illustrious’ Latin Americans  who have recently died.‘ I was acqudinted with Mr,  Guerrero's work for many years in his capaélty as  a lawyer who gave the benefit of his knowledge first  to the Leagué of Nations, ‘and then to the International  Court of Justice at The Hague, * As régards Mr.”  Garcia Monje; all Latin’ Americans without exception  honour thé memory of this great ‘Servant of our  Hterature, whose work In Latin America was indeed  of incalculable value, On behalf of Vedezuela, 'I'pay  my respects to the memory of these'two eminent  men,  IN RA LEY “ =. EEE JY i RN
26.1 The PRESIDENT" (Translatiéh from thé French}:  Ladies and gentlemen,’ the lhspirlhg épètthès *  you have just heard arid applauded have expressed in  terms more éloquéht than any I could muster the  satisfa_tion we all feel with the work'accomplished  at this tenth session’of Unéséo's Géneÿäl Conterence.  As'President; ‘nevertheless, I dé ndtv feel 1 can bring  this session to a close without’ saylng'a’ few Words,’  be they only to ékpréss my waim (hanks and eôngré-  tulations to all those who have been responsible for  its success; and (0 thank, ôn behalf of Frhncé, all  who havé spoker so courteously ahd inovingly about  my country and myself,” My éongratulations and  thanks go first of all to the Executive Board,‘ in the  person of its eminent Chairman; Mr\- Radi, for its  efficient planning and ôrganizatidh of thé work of  the General Conference; then to our Secretariat, -  including our interpreters, whose efficiency and  devotion té duty have earned our uhfdifing admiration;  my affectionate thanks go alike to the andhymous  many for thelr multifarious services, and to the  star solo performers, And lastly, my thanks to you,   PLENARY MEETINGS.  -my colleagues, whose unfailing courtesy, understand-  ing and co-operation have done 80 much to facilitate  my taok, . , PER
25.2 1 should like to my. ä spécial word ot thanks to.  my colleagues of the General Committee, to the Vice-  Presidents who have always been ready - I am sorry  it should have happened 50 often - to take over the…  duties of President with, "as I know, such ‘consummate  authority; : and to the Chairmen, Vice-Chairmen and  Rapporteurs of the Commissions, Committees and  Working Parties,” who have been malnly repponsible  for the good progress of our work, It is to the skill,  ability and goodwill of all these people that we owe the  success of this Conference, which we shall no doubt  all remember as being marked by harmony, efficiency  and hopefulness, ;- Lo
25,3 Harmony, ‘The. noté of "harmony was, indeed,  néver absent from the‘discussions leading up to the .  main decisions of the Conferénce, namely, the adop-  tion of the programme, the vote on the budget, and  the approval of the reports of the Commissions, It  is true that the discussions én other ‘problems, parti-  cularly at the beginning of the’ session, were some-  times a tri ¢ heated, ‘As a politician, .I was naturally  not surprisdd, still less disturbed; by this. Moreover,  it is a characterisiic of our age that intellectuals are  devoting themselves {ncreasingly to current problems;  and Unesco should not try to be ah ivory tower aloof  from the storms raging in the world, The important  point is that the Conference should, ‘after discussing  ‘these problems, have had the wisdom either to refer  them to the authorities best qualified to deal with them,  or to settle them itself; wheré necessary, without  adhering too closely to individual ideologies,
25,4  Efficiency, Our Commissions, Committees  and Working Parties have given a magñificént account  of themselves. The reason why the plénary meetings  of the past twn weeks have passed off so smoothly  and quickly and satisfactorily - so much so, indeed,  that they sometimes seemed to lack the spice of the  unexpected - was that most of the work had béen done  so well beforehand at these meetings of highly effi-  cient specialists, It must be acknowledged that, here  again, the ground had been excellently prepared ‘tor us  by the Executive Board and the Secretariat, which  submitted very good and careful documents to us,  together with proposals - including the proposed  programme and budget - on which Member States had  already been consulted in detail over a considerable  period, To a very large extent, all the Conference  had to do was to ratify and confirm agreements already  reached or on the point of being reached, These  carefully considered decisions, based on the methodi-  cal reconciliation of different points of view, are  undoubtedly an indication of the fact that our Organi-  zation has attained maturity - a fact we should record  with deep satisfaction.
25,5 But - dare I confess it? - at the risk of seeming  to find fault with à good bargain - to complain that the  bride 1s too beautiful, es we say in Franca - I should  not like the meetings of the General Conference,  which should be, and indeed are, important events,  to lose some of their savour (by which I do not mean  their interest) through being too well prepared, The  Unesco General Conference should be a world con-  clave of education, science and culture, In order to  make it so, it is essential in my view that, besides
343     XKVI-  dealing with problems conderiliy. he fra funo-  tioning of thé Orgapization, and requiring defiaite  decisions by. the. delegates of Member States; the -  Conference, at, which so many. eminent peracaalifles :  foregather, should also ‘discuss the. ‘substance of --  cortain of the major problems which'éome within.  Unesco's province and which are occupying men's  minds today, I should like. to bring this suggestion  to the attention of those whose task it will be to  prepare for the next session of the Conference, n-  cluding in particular the members of the Executive -  Board and, if I'may venture to say so, the new  Director-General,
26,6 In faci, the assessment of Unesco's future  programmes, the final report | on which is to come.  . before us in 1960, the major surveys undertaken by  Unesco at the request of the United Nations on inter-  national co-operation in education,’ science’ and -  culture, and the main trends of scientific development,  and finally, - the preparation of international instru-  ments on the subject of discrimination in education,  should all, if their full scope and significance are  explored, provide material for a broad discussion of  the most serious and pressing problems of the modern  world,
25.7 . Lastly, ‘hopefulness. Unesco, having just —  completed a period of remarkable development under  the outstanding leadership of Dr, Lather Evans - to  which we paid well-deserved tribute at this morning's  solemn, memorable meeting, in a series of glowing,  moving tributes, which I would like to endorse again  now, with redoubled warmth and sincerity - Unesco,
1 say, is now turning resolutely to the future, housed  in its new Headquarters, and under the leadership of  a new Directors >General, 2
25.8 As to the new Headquérters, mary delegations  have expressed satisfaction at seeing it Pi ‘manently  established in France; arid I have alread’ had an  opportunity of telling you how proud my “olntry | is to  accommodate it on French soil, "I shid;{d like to  reiterate that we Frenchmen consider it not only as  a great honour, but as a responsibility as well,  Henceforth, France will regard’ if as part of her own  intellectual mission, to which her finest efforts are  devoted, to provide a setting and an atmosphere  worthy of Unesco's universal mission,
25,9 In these new buildings which, by their constant  reminder of the power and ingenuity of modern art  and technology, are an inciiement to boldness; we  are confident that the new Director-General will  pursue the work of his illustrious predecessors, and  extend the Organization's acilvities ever more widely,  What he told us this morning, In his inspiring address,  about his approach to his high office, confirmed us in  the conviction that the Conference has appointed a  man who is worthy of Unesco or, in other words,  worthy of man, ‘I am, I am sure, expressing the  feelings of all my colleagues when l asairé Dr, Vit-  torino Veronese that he is embarking on his task  with our sincére good wishes, and ‘that our trust and.  support. will never fail him. I know that we can count  on him to make Unesco's work increasingly efficient,  and by organizing it with intelligence and sympathy,  to win for the Organization the growing esteem and  spontaneous support of the peoples, without which  even the strongest of governments are, in the last  resort, powerless,   xxvi> PLENARY
26,10 That 1s fhe ‘Wish | i frame; lidies’ aid gentle-  men, riow that our. labours arè completed; - You’ are  going forth ints, the Wérid,! like missionaries in. - :  human understanding; to ‘spread the message of moral  and intelectual ‘solidarity, >and I shéuld like'to ‘wish  you a safe return lgie, 't and. to voice‘ the hope that we  shall all have the good fovtune to meet again hére in  two yearst time I for my part shall néver forget the  signal honour you paid me n asking me to preside  over your assémbly; “and the memory of the noble  example of mutual respect, understanding and co-  operation which you have, for the past month, set  the world will never leave me,
26,1 Dr; EVANS" HE to  Mr. President, awit our pet iisston 1 should like  to say a few. words ‘more {o thank the speakers for  their kind remarks; “foi their sincère and moving  declarations of hignks for the work that I have tried  to do, particular; ‘those ‘who Haye spoken since I  spoke this morning: I thought this that we had  arrived at the érid'of the speeches,’ ~*~
26.2 Ihave little to‘add to ‘what I'said, except to  express again my deep ‘gratitude, ‘ I would like to say  to you that my faith in this Organizatfon has grown  over the past years since we mét ‘in ‘London to decide  what we wanted the Organization ‘to do and to be; and  my faith in what Unésco can do is still growing. 1  feel sure that the next five years will give more con-  crete results, will put in the hearts of men more  faith in the work ôf Unesco than {he last five years  have done. You have demonstrated at this Conference,  as so many speakers have pointed out, an increased  degree of maturity, You have conducted a session  with’ improved efficiency, and this is not all because  “MERTINGS-
344     of thé good — ‘of the Exskitive ‘Board éombinéd -  with the Taare ts; which 1 acknowledge, of the  Secretariat; the” Member | States’ are improving in -  their capaolly te ncelye and to execute the pro-°  gramme ‘ot t e ‘Organization, : =
26,3 Mr, ‘Awad has'touched | upon. thé hatter of the  affection which I have for ‘the peoples of the Member  States of this’ Orgénizafion,/1 now’ ‘régird all ‘ot these  peoples ds my peoples, - ‘eel’ as’ close lé being a  citizeir of édch of your countrios as it is possible,  even for d Texan, to feel; ! I feel at home everywhere  in the world, and 1 ‘hope i shall have further oppor-  tunity to denjontrate that Ido, - © |
26,4 (Translation from the French}: | ie  Mr, ‘President, I should like to thank you, tirstly,  for the work you have done’ as President of our Con-  ference, I should also’ like to thank you for the  welcome ‘which we have recelvéd, ‘my wife, my son  and I, both here in the capital of France and ia the  country as a ‘whole, * + oo
26,5 It has been for us an experience nok only. i  interesting but very moving, an experienée which has  left us with many meniories of a'life in which we have -  found countless satisfactions; and for that I have to  . express my thanks to you, to the French Government  and to the French people,
27,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Allow me, Sir, on behalf of the Confererice, to  embrace you,
21.2 Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to  declare the tenth session of the General Conference  closed, ’  The meeting rose at 6 p.m.