4 November 1958, at 3, 45 p.m,  President: Dr, Sarvepalll RADHAKRISHNAN (India)  CONTENTS  Opening of the session by thé Head of the Delegation of India  Address by the Chairman of the Executive Board . . .  Address by the Director-General of Unesco. + , + + »  Statement by the President on arrears of contributions,  Establishment of the Credentials Committee. . . . .  -OPENING OF THE SESSION BY THE HEAD OF  THE DELEGATION OF INDIA  . Cet “dx 2°  ‘1.1 Dr RADHAKRISHNAN (India):  May-l offer à coïdial welcome to the representa-  tives of the Membe fs States who are meeting for the  firat time in these, éw buildings, which were formally  .opened yesterday afternoon, It was France who  ‘blazed a continent!s trail to democracy: her name  -has become a synényin for intelligence and enlighten-  iment, I fervently, ‘hope that those who meet in these  ‘buildings, in te, Hapital of France, to consider  “problems of eduction; sclencé and culture, will be  “steadfast in theif devotion to the {deals of peace,  {understanding and the happiness of man,  :1.2 - Maulana Abul Kalam Azad was the President of  “the last General/Conference, which was beld at New  -Delht in 1956, He should have been here today as the  leader of the Initaii Delegation and,‘ as the Président  ot the last Conference at New Delhf,. to open the  “present Conferénce, To our great sorrow he passed  ;away on the 22d of February this year. He was not  jonly a great Arabic scholar and an outstanding  {literary figuré, but also a great friend of Unesco  ‘and ita ideals) and in his introduction to the "History  ‘of Philosophy, Eastern and Western'', he pleaded for  an understanding between East and West, - for inter-'  communication between cultures and the promotion  Tof cultural solidarity, He asked for a fuller inter-  {change of thought between East and West, - and the  {General Conference has adopted a major project  i  H  “  i
39  designed to bring these two cultures together,
1.3 1do not wish to detail to you the steps which  you are proposing to {ake on that major project, The  days of cultural tribalism are over, -we no longer  have separate cultural universes. - East and West  have come together, never to part again, and they  must settle down in some kind of peaceful coexistence  which will eventually grow into active; friendly co-  operation, .That le essential for the future welfare of  the world itself, There are mary ideas about East  and West which are somewhat’ misleading.’ There are  soma people irho argue that the East is mystically  minded and the West ie empirical in its outlook, one  is more relifrious,. the other is more séientific; but  these distinctions have arisen only in‘ récent times.  China has contributed to us many great scientific  invent{ong the compass, vaccination, paper;  printing,’ ‘Blk. India has contributed logic, meta-  physics, .gtammar, mathematics, - In the last three  hundred years the Asian countries have lagged behind,  and Weitern nations have made spectacular advances  in sciençe c'and technology; so that the contrast is  emphasitiéd by the material backwardness of the  Eastern hatlons and tiie progressive character of  Western ilations. This is true of only a few centuries;
1 rememfer a great statement made by Lord Acton,  who tells is that he who looke at the last three hundred  years overlooking the last three thousand, has no °  proper historical perspective. East and West are not  categories Indicative of different forms of consclous-  ness or different systems of culture; they represent   I PLENARY  aspects of des human being - the religlous, and the  scientific, tte spiritual and the rational.’ ‘Lat ug say  rather that East and West are, as it ware, two sides  of human nature, with somelimes greater ‘emphasis  on the religious side and sometimes on the scientific,
1,4 The distinction is only one of distribution of  emphasis, We have great traditions of idealism from  the time of Socrates and Plato down to our own day,  and we have also great scientific achievements made  by Eastern nations, We should not therefore look  upon these expressions, thes. large generalizations,  as more than working hypotheses, Now the East is  in ferment; Asia is awake, Africa is on the move.  They both wish to throw off the dead hand of ihe past ~~  and join in the stream of human progress, There have  heen political and economic revolutions and also revo-  lutions of awakened desires, of roused hopes. If these  longings are not satisfied, if we are not able to bring  about at least a partial fulfilment of these very legi-  timate aims of the Eastern natinns today, there will  be no security for peace In this world, If we want to  have enduring peace, it is essential for us to empha-  size the desirability of satisfying these aspirations of  the nations of Asia and Africa.
1,5 1am glad to note that this Organizetion has  contributed a great deal by way of giving scientific  advice and technical asaistance to the nations who  are demanding development, Yet the difficulties are  there, and greater attention will have to be paid if  this Organization ie to be global in its character'-  not merely in name but in content, This global,  character will have to be reflected, at all levels, in  all matters major and minor, in the composition of  the Executlve Board, in the distribution of posts in  the Secretariat, in the award of grants and subven-  tions to non-governmental international organizations.
1.6 Unless we are able to make this a truly inter-  national organization a suspicion will arise that we  are sectional, that we are a bureaucracy offering  little appeal to the peoples who aré now suffering  from destitution, ignorance; poverty and disease.  To give an example, the Executive Board consists of  twenty-four members, I note from its present com-  position that eight of them come from Asia and Africa,  and sixteen from Europe and the two Américas, ‘We  cannot regard this composition of the Executive Board  as either just or adequate,  [ know that my friend,  Dr, Luther Evans; ‘has been giving great attention to  these problems,. He hus visited almost all the Mem-  ber States in the world and has increased the expend-  iture for the development of backward areas in the  Asian and African regions, ‘We are grateful to him  for the service he has rendered those regions during  these years and I hope this Organization will continue  to do ao in the future too, There is another project  which is to bé discussed here - the extension of edu-  cation in Asian regions. Literacy is essential, ‘we  must acquire knowledge, we must learn how we can  keep ourselves healthy, literate, modernist and  progressive,
1.7 We suffer from many disabilities, but 1 should  like to streas that merely to attain literacy is not  enough. Plato said in Charmides: "It is not the life  according to knowledge which makes men act rightly  and be happy, not even if it be knowlédge of all the  sciences, but one science only, that of good and evil".  Science and technology, medicine and surgery,  MEETINGS
40  industry and commerce will provide us with the  framework of our society, but without the knowledge  of gocd and evil they will fail us, That knowledge is.  the science which enables us to take interest in the  pursuit of truth and in curing the ills of suffering  humanity,
1,8 Our intellectual achievementn are great and our  technological advance has been outstanding, yet we  live on'the brink of fear, at the edge of a precipice  and in perpetual fear of falling over it, We do need  therefore that this Organization should give ampler  meaning to certain common concepts which belong to  al tradijiony’s of the world - the dignity of man, the  ‘need for compassion, for understanding. We cons-  tantly sp¢ak of the inward presence of the divine in  the humais being, and all the great religions are an  invitat{on‘{o human beings to grow and change their  nature; though our nature may be limited, we are  capable of unlimited intimate development, They tell  us that hunjan nature need not be what it happens to be  at the presont moment, There is a capacity for self-  renewal in the human being. This assertion of the  spirit in man 18 the hope of the world. Have we not  rid ourselves of many pestilences which devastated  humanity, of cannibalism and head-hunting? There  was a time when we thought that God would be pleased  if we sacrificed children on the altar, We thought  religion would progress and expand through massacres  and inquisitionhs. . We have grown out of all those  ideas; so, also, the idea that war is essential is some-  thing that we can outgrow, :. There is no doubt that if  human nature asserts itself, that if the spirit in man  is given scope, this greatest pestilence of all ages  will also be driven out by human effort.
1.9 Man is invincible if his spirit asserts itself,  He has endurance and the capacity for compassion.  He can stand up and say, "I will not bow down to the .  circumstances, I am more powerful than the material  forces which confront us, Man is higher than the  forces which beat around him., If this principle of  the inwerd presence of spirit is taken by us as an  aasertion of human dignity, we will realize the inter-  wovenness of human life, and will take seriously the  Christian Injunction to bear one ariother's burdens.  If one man suffers, the whole of humanity suffers;  for humanity has become one today. :It is to the  development of the oneness of mankind that wé must  make the great contribution, We are passing through  trying times, our civilization is being tested; it may  be destroyed or renewed, What will happen to it  depends on ourselvés, not on our stars nor upon the  impersonal forces which surround us, It depends on  the spirit of man, on the will of man to take these  things seriously.- 1 have no doubt that we shall go  forward and that thie Organization will contribute to  that cultural solidarity which is the essential basis  of enduring peace,  ADDRESS BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD
2,1 Mr, RAADI (Iran), Chairman of the Executive  Board, (Translation from the French):  Mr. President, in the name of the Executive Board,  may I associate myself with the eloquent, wise and  moving words you have just spoken in opening this  tenth session of Unesco's General Conference; recall   PLENARY MEETINGS 1  and pay {ribite’ to a great man who has died,” Maulana  Abul Kalam Azad; and extend a welcome to the dele-  gations of the Member States? - CAPERS -
2,2 . The General Conference held {ts ninth session,  Mr, President, at New Delhi, the capital of the great  Asian country to which you belong. Today it {8 meet-  ing in Paris, in the very heart of the West, Two  years ago the delegates of Member States rendered  homage to India, the cradle of a rich and ancient  civilization, Now they are rediscovering in this fair  country of France, which most of them have long  known, the treasures of European thought, culture  and art, : + 1 LL Lt
2,3 Ian convinced that this direct contact of the  General Conference with East and West, which unfolds  to us the variety of our Organization's world horizons,  promotes the mutual appreciation of cultural values  which is one of Unesco's main aims, 2
2,4 This is not the firat time that we have met in  Paris, ‘ But with yesterday's ceremony, when the  opening of our permanent Headquarters was honoured  by the presence of the President of the, French  Republic, this session becomes a landmark in  Unesco's history ‘and takes on special meanirg,
2,5 I would lke to assure our Freach fiends that,  althought we enjoy the permanent héspitality of their  noble country, our constant use of French soil for  our meetings And our work in no way diminishes our  sense of deep gratitude. .
2.6 This assembly embraces delegations from  every region of the world and includes many persons  of distinction in the fields of education, sclence,  culture and mass communication. May its delibera-  tions and decisions enable it to give the world fresh  proof of the moral and intellectual oneness of man-  kind! .
2,7 Mr. President, the increasing interest in  Unesco of which Member States give evidence, and  the steady progress of our Organization towards  "universality", constitute real encouragement for  us all, -
2.8  Since.the end of the second world conflagration,  we have been living in a state which, unfortunately,  is more like one of truce than one of real peace - a  truce that is characterized by a series of inter-  national tensions and by what has come to be called  the "cold war’, ++ © - .
2.9 -- This thirteen years' truce, howeyer, has not  been unproductive; The United Nations and {ts  Specialized Agencies, though seriously handicapped  by this atmosphére; have rendered indisputable .  services; "Although, to our dismay, the guns can still  be heard in certain areas,’ our hopes are sustained  and quickened by signs of an easing - permanent, we  trust - of tension, Thus at this very moment the  most powerful nutions are seeking together for ways  in which our generations may be freed from the  terrible threat of atomic war and in which these new  sources of energy, endowing man with unheard-of  power, may be used in the cause of peace and well-  being. .
2,10 If only this de facto truce could become a  fundaméntal truce, leading, as speedily as possible, to  a lasting peace based on justice, respect for human  dignity, and consciences at rest... su,
2,11 If that happened, mankind could benefit fully  from the tremendous opportunities which the
41  spectagulat advance of science is presenting to it,  Since the last session of our General Conference,  man Kas emtarked upon the conquest of interplanetary  placé, where harmony reigns supreme. May the  thought of that harmony inspire all men of goodwill  in thelr éfforts to make life on our planet more worth  Uviag! " ;
2.12 ! Mr, President, ag we look at the history of  mankind we are stru¢k by the fact that every period  is marked by nome great idea or some great religion.  Put these great systems of thought and these religions,  despite the loftiness of their teachings, have so far  failed - though thé failure cannot be ascribed to their  principles - to firéverit ¢lashes and conflicts between  the peoplen aubacribing to them, Our epoch, which  ti - .  possesses almost unlimited material resources, has  the task of discovering the dynamic process of  thought and action which will enable the peoples of  every race, religion and ideology to live in peace and  place their resources,’ material and spiritual alike,  at the service of all mankind.  The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the Director-General,
4,1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL?  Mr, President, {herd is little that I need add at  this stage: your address has moved us all deeply,  and the Chairman of the Executive Board has spoken  words full of wisdom and hope, ,
4.2 That you, Mr, President, have presided over  a portion on'all of three oïdiñary sessions of the  General Conference and oñe extraordinary one - the  session held {o’elect me Director-General - marks  you as one of the great figures in the twelve years of  history which we ¢omplete {ji Unesco today,
4.3 As this ‘session -of.th¢ General Conference  opens, my tind goes back to that opening just two  years ago less one day; in the capital of your great  country. I think of the magnificent welcome you gave  us, of the splendid riew building in which we met, of  the hopes and interést'and‘éympathy which the session  stirred, ‘1 think also of the dark clouds which hung  over the political’dcene:at that time, and:at once -  I also recali the easing of the world's tension that -  followed; and the épirit'änd discipline which carried  us all, délegates and staff, through thosé dark days.
4.4 It té impossiblé'to think of these things without  remembering the figure," the grace and the stature of  Mauleña Abul Kalam Azad; Minister of Education of  India and President of the General Conference at our  ninth séssion; whos¢ mantle you, Mr," President,  have assumed as Head of your country's delegation,
4.5 ‘ There are men, not very many," from: whom  strength and high purpose flow almost palpably;  Maulana Azad was certainly such'a man and his - .  virtues gave meaning and nobility to our.proceedings.  His passing was a deep blow for India, ard I should  like once again to express my personal sorrow.
4.6 Much has happened in these two years, : Very  shortly, you will examine the immediate past and our  accomplishments, at the came time as you will  discuss and decide upon plans for the future, ‘ You  will have for the first time two not inconsiderable   I PLENARY  aide in your task:' the Reports Committee has met,  strengthened as the General Conference at its last  session desired, and 1s placing before you a well-  considered and constructive report; and we of the  Secretariat, with the assistance and guidance of the’  Executive Board, have produced an appraieal of the  Organfzation's accomplishments and future prospects,  ultimately intended for the Economic and Social  Council of the United Nations, which I believe to be  one of the most meaningful documents we have ever  prepared,
4.7 Itis the function of the General Confarence to  look back and to look forward simultaneously, and in  so doing to safeguard and strengthen that continuity  of purpose which, after only 12 yeais, js already a  dominant feature of Unesco's life, - But each session  is marked by its own characteriatica:, I have just  recalled those of the session at New Delhi, and many  of you ‘will have a vivid memory of the colourful and  lively session of 1954 in the New World, at Monte-  video, which had its own characteristic atmosphere.  The particular feature hére and today is, of course,  our entry into this fine new permanent Headquarters,  and I am struck by the coincidence which, on two  consecutive occasions, ht brought delegations toge-  ther in brand new surroundings mede ready for their  special use, Let us therefore recognize this as a  stimulus and a sign of the Organization's vitality,  The buildings are good and lasting, and I have full  confidence that Unesco's work will improve by reason  of their efficiency dnd the lift they give the human  spirit.
4,8 Againa host ‘country has exerted itself to mark  the occasion worthily and fully, * As the days pass,  you will have ample evidence of the efforts made by  the French Government and French authorities to  make this month memorable. I need not speak of  course of yesterday's solemn inauguration, graced  by the highest personality in the land. France is not  only Unesco's host, but a true and ardent believer in  its destiny, and shows it in many ways, with continu-  ing thought and Initiative,
4.9 Ihave to record one sad event: His Excellency  Ambassador Egldio Reale, Chairman of the Italian  National Com\nission, died suddenly early.on Sunday  morning while actually on his way to Paris for this  session, The delegates will no doubt join me in con-  veying to our Îtalian friends our sympathy in their  great loss,
4,10 Mr, President, I have oné more task to:  perform, and it {s a very happy privilege to perform  it: -the tribute to Mahdtma Gandhi, whiéh at its last  session the General Conference authorized me to  produce In the form of a book of selections from  Gandhi's thought,” has just been published.. It is with  some emotion that I hand you this first copy, for the  study of Gandhi's personality, which the General  Conference asked should precede the actual selections,  is by your own hand, There could be no stronger  assurance that the book is worthy of the great figure  to whose undying memory it is dedicated.
5.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr, Director-General
42  MrRzTINGS  S)ATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT ON ARREARS OF CONTRIBUTIONS
5.2 [Ihave to make a statement concerning arrears  of contributions and the effect these arrears have on  the rights of Member States to vote at thie session of  the General Conference, Under Article IV; para-  graph 8 (b) of the Constitution, a Member State's  right to vote is conditional upon thé payments of the  contribution system. The text of the paragraph reads  ag follows: "A Member State shall have no’ vote in  the General Conference if the tôtal amount of contri-  butions due from it exceeds the total amount of  contributions payable by it for the current year and  the immediately preceding calendar year", At the  present time, the following Member States are  flebarred from voting at’the present session of the  General Conference, because the amount of contri-  butfons due from them exceeds the total amount of  the contributions paid by them for the current year  and the immediately preceding calendar year:  Bolivia, China and Paraguay,
5,3 Paragraph 8 (c) of Article IV stipulates that  the General Conference may permit such a Member  State to vote, if it iis satisfied that the failure to pay  is due to conditions beyond the control of the Member  Nation. The délegations of the States concerned will  therefore decide whether they see fit to ask the  General Conference to apply paragraph 8 (c}. Requests  to this effect, if they have not already been submitted  to the Director-General, should be addressed to the  President of the General Conference who will transmit  them to the General Committee, which in turn will  decide which of the organs of the Conference should  consider these requests,
5,4 The delegation of China has, by a letter dated
1 November and addressed to the President of the  Conference, requested that, in accordance with  Article IV 8 (c) of the Constitution, it be granted the  right to vote at the present session (document 10 C/51)  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE
5.5 The next item is the constitution of the Greden- '  tials Committee, According to Rule 27 of the. Rules  of Procedure, ‘the Credentials Committée shall  consist of nine members, who shall be elécted by. the  General Conference on ‘the proposal of the temporary  President, - It shall elect its own Chairman’ In. :  accordance with these provisions, I propose {hat the  following States ‘serve on the Credentials Committee;  Chile, France, Haiti, Iraq, Poland, Thailand, United  Kingdom, United States of America. Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics; The Executive Board has :  proposed that Chile provide the Chairman of the  Committee, - If the Conference has no objection,” the  Credentials Committee is so constituted and will  meet immediately, It will submit its report tomorrow  morning at 10, 30,  The meeting rose at 4, 20 p, m,