5 December 1958, at 10,40 a, m,  President: Mr, Jean BERTHOIN (France)  CONTENTS  Tributes to Dr. Luther H, Evans + , + « + + +» « 322  Installation of Dr. Viltorino Veronese inthe office of Director-  General of Unesco . ..  TRIBUTES TO DR, LUTHER H. EVANS  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Ladies and gentlemen, the General Conference has  met this morning, at the conclusion of its proceed-  ings, to pay tribute to Dr, Luther Evans and to install  his successor, Dr. Vittorino Veronese, who will take  the oath on this occasion,
1.2 “Since several delegations have asked to speak  fn support of the resolution in which our tribute to  Dr. Luther Evans will be expressed before the ses-  sion closes, I will immediately call upon Mr. Raadi,  Chairman of the Executive Board,
2,1 Mr. RAADI (Iran), Chairman of the Executive  Board (Translation from the French}:  Mr. President, in the course of the session which  is now ending - and [ wish to pay you the most sin-  cere tribute of grateful admiration for the great  competence, courtesy and authority with which you  have presided over it - we have had occasion to  attend several formal ceremonies, The one at which  we are present today is of particular significance,  One of the greatest servants of our Organization is  reaching the end of the mandate entrusted to him.  At the same time, a new Director-General, in  whose hands the General Conference has just placed  the destinies of Unesco, is preparing to succeed  him and take the oath of office. :
2.2 Since Unesco was founded, some of us - and I  have had the privilege to be among them - have  witnessed this ceremony, for the installation of the  Director-General, several times. First of all, Sir  Alfred Zimmern was Executive Secretary of the  Preparatory Commission of the Organization. After-  wards, ! remember one snowy evening early in 1946  when I was present, with two of my colleagues here  today, at the nomination of Sir Jullan Huxley, in an  office in Westminster where our President, Miss  Wilkinson, had assembled us, Sir Julian Huxley  subsequently became Director-General of the Orga-  nization in November 1946, Many of us also remem-  ber the meeting at which the Director-General's  powers were transferred to the second holder, during  the third session of the General Conference in Beirut,  when His Excellency Mr, J. Torres Bodet, ina
322  memorable speech, impressed us all with his lofty  concept of Unesco's mission. In July 1953, at the  second extraordinary session, after several years as  an outstanding memher of the Executive Board, Dr,  Luther Evans was called upon to assume the duties  which he has discharged up to now, Today, Dr.  Vittorino Veronese is succeeding him in this high  function, I.
2.3 This series of eminent men recalls so force-  fully, the picture of the Olympic runners relaying one  another and passing the torch from hand to hand, that
1, though a descendant of the Persians, cannot help  evoking this recollection of Greek antiquity.
2.4 It has been said - transposing to another field  tion towards universality, .. . . ; .
2,5 The function of Director-General in an interna-  tional Organization like Unesco has the special feature  that the honour it brings to the person chosen corres-  ponds to the heavy responsibilities which fall upon  him, On assuming this post, he bécomes one who,  though inevitably retaining the stamp of the thought and  culture characteristic of his Background, must reflect  the spirit of universal understanding wh ch is the basic  inspiration of all institutions inthe United Nations family.
2.6 The men who created Unesco assuredly had this  high conception of universality and objectivity in mind  when they incorporated in the Constitution the foliow-  ing provisions: "The responsibilities of the Director-  General and of the staff shall be exclusively intérna-  tional in character. In the discharge of their duties  they shall not seek or receive instructions from any  government or from any authority external to the  Organization, They shall refrain from any action  which might prejudice their position as international  officials, Each State Member of the Organization  undertakes to respect the international character of  the responsibilities of the Director-General and the  staff, and not to seek to influence them in the discharge  of their duties". )   PLENARY
2,7 Thus even though, by the very nature of their  duties, the Directors -General must have, or acquire,  thorough knowledge of the problems of the various  veglons throughout the world, and lend an attentive  ear to the requests and desires of Member States,  they must not for one moment forget that in all cir-  curnstances their action can be based only on the  Constitution and the will of the General Conference,
2,8 It is in this spirit, therefore, that the Member  States must respect the Director-General's indepen-  dence, and that the Director-General must consider  all suggestions, proposals or requests from Member  States, whether these States be large or srnall,  economically developed or underdéveloped, Is it not  true moreover that, within Unesco, : the strength of a  community must be measured not by its economie,  military or political power, but by its contribution to  the enrichment of mankind's Intellectual and spiritual  heritage? As the illustrious author of the "Garden  of Roses" said, as long.ago as the Thirteerth cen-  tury, "Gredtness depends on learning and culture,  not on wealth and social rank",
2,9 Let me recall the words which I used in 1946  at the first General Conference of Unesco, and which  I think bear repetition eveh after the passage of  twelve years; ""We hope that Unesco will offer those  Powers which in political jargon are termed 'small!  the means of finding cultural and spiritual compen-  sation for their material weakness",
2,10 And now I wish to render homage to two dis-  tinguished men whom it has been my honour and  privilege to know and appreciate for a considerable  time.
2,11 Dr, Luther Evans is about to leave the Orga-  nization which he has been serving for more than five  years, The tributes which have been paid to him,  and with which I associatd myself, are striking proof  of our grateful recognition for the ‘work he has done,  Indeed, what greater happiness can there be for a  high international official than to take unanimous  praises with him when he leaves? If tact had not  prevented him, he could himself have judged how  warm was the appreciation of him expressed at the  meeting of 22. November. 1958; -
2,12 Dr: Evans, ès we all know, has many qualities,  I will mention only a few: A tireless worker, he has  known how to combine authority: with aftability, Wel-  coming and ‘cordial’ in' äpproach,-he has always given  his attention’ to thosé coming to see him, eveñ when  he was preoccupied by difficult questions,” He has  fnnumerable friends in all the Member States he has  visited in order to estahlish diréct contacts, During  the periods between Conferences, he has always  attached the greatest importance to consulting the  Member States and informing them fully about the  Organization's activities, and has been able to inspire  in them steadily: increasing interest in the preparation  and execution of the programme. The confidence he  won and the support he gained from Member States  in this way are exémplified bÿ the fact that the  General Conference at its ninth session, forced on  him the present of a budget ‘higher than that which he  himsélf had asked for,
2.13 The name Dr. Luther Evans will remain  associated with many initiatives and achievements  - inéluding, in particular, the completion of the new  Unescobullding, the consolidation of the Organization's
323  MEETINGS     XXv  administrative framework,’ a close, intensive and  fruitful collaboration between Unesco and the 1 United  Nations, the conception of the Participation’ pro’  granime,’ and the launéhing of the Major Projects,  During his term of office, thé number of Member  States has steadily risen, ‘to reach 81 at the present  session, ~ At thé time when he assumed his task, the  Organization was going through a serious Grisls,  Today, as he'leaves us; he can rejoice with us, and  not without pride, that Unesco has reachéd maturity  and that, based on solid foundations, it is henceforth  capable of fulfilling, with increased effectiveness,  the hopes placed in it by the world's peoples,
2,14 Mr, President, I am sure that the Gerieral  Conference will shortly welcome and warmly approve  a resolution éxpressing to Dr. Evans our feelings of  esteem and ératitude,
2,15 As for our new Director-General, Dr, Vittorino  Veroñesé, it has been my pleasure to know him and  see him at work ever since the Beirut’ General Con-  ference in 1948, If 1 may refer to personal mémorles,
1 would recall with pleasure that he and ! joined the"  Executive Board, in 1952, the same day, Immediately  after our election; Dr, Luttier Evans - our “senior on  the Board, of which he was an influential and réspected  member - received us with great friendliness in a  neighbouring room, and there presented us to a ‘national  broadcasting service, - From the outset, Vittorino  Veronese's colleagues in the Execiitive Board found in  him a lucid, ‘objéctive mind, together with a remark-  able gift for linderstanding different points of view and  drawing from them a construcfive sybthésis, ‘Listen-  ing to'his clear and easy apéech, observing thé’ speed  with which he perceivéd the finer shadings in the -  thought of his questioners; I would oftén think of that  Mediterranéati culture in which the contributions of so  many peoples and civilizations are reflécted and :  harmoniously combined, Europe arid the Occident as  a whole have the right to be proud of this heritage;  the Orient likewise, if we consider the centuriés-old  relationships between thèse two continents, Did not  Paul Valéry say that Europe was only a headland of  Asia? -
2,16 Iam convinced that, in calling Dr, Vérénese  to the high office of Director-General, the Général:  Conference was aware that Hé was already abreast’ of  the main problems whichi havé been atid will "continue  to be faced by Unesco, "Of course; under thé admini-  stration of its first thréè Directors -Geñeral our  Organization Has done’ remarkable ‘work, and each'one  of us is familia with the milestories ‘passed and the  projects completed, But wé kiiow, and Mr. iVeronese  knows batter than anyone, that the tasks’ remaining -  to be uridertaken, - and carried through, are gigantic.  With his broad and far-ranging vision, I am suré that  he wiil dévote the greatest attention to the most urgent  problems in education, especially id the countries of  Asia; Africa and Latin- America, whose hopes are”  placed in our Organizations’ nor will he foiget'tor a  moment the neid for redoubléd efforts in thé vast  domains of science, culture and mass communication,  So long as this grave lack of balance 1ñ respeél of  education and technological progress continues to  exist among different regions of the world - a question  of which Dr, Veronese spoke in a recent statement -  it is obvious thal any action undertaken for scientific  and cultural co-vperation on a world scale will be   XXV PLENARY  serlously handicapped aiid will achieve only partial  results, It is theiefore.in the interest, not only of the  countries least fayqured but also of those most  advanced in this respect, and çonsequently of Unesco  as a whole, that tireless efforts should be madé to  speed the coming of that new era when all peoples will  be in a position to spread a knowledge of their own  cultural values and appreciate other cultures, to co-  operate scientifically and culturally on a basis of  equal resources, and to engage in really constructive  exchanges,
2,17 Dr, Veronese ‘has often shown his’ interest in  associating, with Unesco's work, the educators and  nclentitic and cultural leaders of the world, those  responsible for the great communication media, ‘the  young people who are the hope of tomorrow, - andall  the vital forces of the various’ nations, We may  expect vigorous action from him to that end; and here,  each category of cilizen, - in every country, ‘must be  enabled to contribute, by fis efforts, to the action of  our Organization, Where the scope of their contribu-  tion is concerned, no hierarchies or lnes of demarca-  tion really exist, Those usually described as leaders  or the élite can, once they have been interested in  what Unesco is doing, exert a wholesome {nflience  on the public; and the public, can, in response to  Unesco's appeal, encourage the leaders to co-operate  increasingly with United Nations institutions, ; ;1 may  mention, as an example, the excellent initiative of  the French National Conimission which recently.  organized a round- table of Nobel brizewiriners, gon-  currently- with the tenth session.” Those of us who  attended these successful talks saw what fruitful  contact could be established helween sclentists and,  the public, between the summit and the foundation,  The presence of great sétentists drew to thése meet-  ings a ‘steadily, increasing’ publie, audience, whose  enthusiasm, and interest in the basic problems’ of  mankind, were a: stimulating tribute’ to the efforts of  these eminent sayants, We can therefore’ unreser- :  vedly affirm that initiatives of this kind, if multiplied,  will be of tremendous service to Unesco's cause.  Louis Liard, who in the last century was one of Mr,  Gastori Bérgèrls illustrious predecéssors inthe .  French Department of Higher’ Education, speaking of  the rôle of higher. education in a éomplete system of  national education, used these. ‘words; "What it is  worth determines what hé Jest! is worthy It is the  source of ail that "the rest’; "distributes. .
2.18, - This correlation which’ this great man estab-  lished between the various educational cycles might  well be applied to the ‘contributions of leaders of  thought and the participation of the masses in the  efforts made in the educational, scientific and saltural  fields. …,: LA
2,19". Thus, In ‘this exciting development of solentific  and cultiral cooperation. all things aré bound up ‘and  hang together: ‘educati PE derves. culture and science,  scientific, progress. helps to improve social conditions,  culture gles substance to education, thé éfforts of  leaders and élites enrich the intellectual and material  life of the masses, and the enthusiasm of the latter  stimulated thy, former. It only remains for me, in  conclusion, to wish the new Director-General, Dr.  V. Veronese, full success in the difficult but splendid  mission which has just been entrusted to him.
2.20 Now that, by the will of the General Conference,
324     MEETINGS  he has been called upon to assume this noble task,  let us give him our cônfidence, judging him in action  at a later junclure,. My sincere dosire Is that,  through his work, he should achieve what each one of  us hopes for the greatness of Unesco,
3.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I now have the honour of reading out to you the  draft resolution drawn up by the General Comrnittee  to convey our official tribute to Dr. Luther Evans:
3.2 "The General Conference,  At the close of its tenth session, which marks the  term of Dr, Luther H, Evans! tenure of office as  Director-General; :  Deeply conscious of the outstanding services ren-  dered to the Organization by Dr, Evans, as a mem-  ber of a delegation at the London Conference of 1945  and at every. succeeding session since 1947, as a  member of the Executive Board in 1952 and 1953,  and as Director- -General from 4 July 1953 to this  day; ‘. i  Recalliig that Dr; Evans!. period of office coin-  cided with. ‘a most significant reaffirmation and con-  solidation of Unesço's mission in the world, with  the launching of the Major Projects and other new  methods of work of great premise, with many sub-  stantial and fruitful achievements, and with a success-  ful development of relations with Member States;  Keenly aware of Dr, Evans’ personal contribution  to the completion of the permanent Headquarters;  Records its profound and abiding gratitude to Dr.  Luther H, Evans for his devoted work in the service  of Unesco;  Decides to honour the financial terms of Dr, -  Evans! contract to its original date of expiration on
3 July 1959; .  Affirms its‘conviction that the Organization has  “greatly gained in effectiveness, stature and prestige  under Dr, Evans' guidance;  Addresses its affectionate good wishes to Dr. and  Mrs. Evans for the years to come; and  Expresses its belief that under the continued  leadership of men of Dr, Evans' quality and devotion,  Unesco will move towards steadily increasing  achievement in Ie appointed fields, for the better-  ment of mankind," .
3.3 Several delégates have asked to speak before  this draft resolution is put to the vete. I will begin  by calling upon Mr, Rabb, Head of the delegation of  the United States of America,
4.1 Mr. RABB (United States of America):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, the delegation  of the United States wishes to associate itself with,  and to support, the resolution proposed in tribute to  Dr, Luther Evans,
4,2 We wlshto associate ‘ourselves with other dele-  gations in expressing our thanks to Dr. Evans for  having led this Organization safely through the  critical period of development which spans the five  and a half years durlig which he has so ably served  as Unescols Director-General, The délegation of the  United States is particularly satisfied to note that,  under Dr, Evans! leadership, Unesco has made im-  portant progress in four areas, progress which we  consider to be a promising sign of its growing maturity,
4.3 First, in recent years, the Organization has   PLENARY MEETINGS XXv  focused much ‘more ¢losely on specific means for  approaching tangible and well-defined tasks, The deci-  sion to concentrate the Organization's resources and  energles on the fulfilment of the three Major Projects  is an excellent case in point. We consider that this  closer focusing on priority targets is a step In the  right direction,
4,4 Secondly, Unésco has progressively accepted  its responsibility towards less- “developed aréas in  which basié educational needs demand high attention,  Technical assistance has properly | become an integral  part of thé Organization's programme, -related in  appropriate perspective to the necessity for constant  encouragement of Intellectual effort at à high level,
4,5 Thirdly, recent yéars have seen an’'in¢reasingly  more intimate collaboration between Unesco, the  United Nations and the other Specialized Agencles,  Successful efforts have been made to co-ordinate  Unesco's policies with the pertinent policy develop-  ments of its parent and brother organizations; ‘within  the concept of "concertéd action’, Unesco has done  much to help make a cohesive family of the United  Nations and its Agencies,
4,6 Finally, as the Organization has been directed  towards an Increasing maturity of purpose and outlook,  so it has begun to make progressive, rational strides  towards a carefully planned and expanding programme  to meet the multitude of problems which clamour for  its attention,
4.7 We of the delegation of the United States are  grateful for the imaginative leadership which has  made this progress possible, The work of Dr. Evans  will be a valued legacy for the future leadership of  Unesco, and we belleÿe that, if the path now so well  charted is followed, the Organization will become  ever more valuable to all the peoples of its Member  States as a primary agent in the fight against ignorance  ance - man's ignorance of his environment and man's  ignorance of his fellowmen. His has been a contribu-  tion that has had a vital impact which will long be  remembered with respect and gratitude, He will  always bé thought of with warm regard - a dedicated,  a devoted human being.
4,8 Mr, President, we of the delegation of the  United States take pride in expressing suppori for the  resolution before us, and in paying this well - merited  tribute to Dr, Evans.
5. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 call upon Sir Edward Boyle, Head of thé delega-  tion of the United Kingdom, _
6.1 Sir Edward BOYLE (United Kingdom):  Mr. Presidént, I havé very much pleasure, on be-  half of the United Kingdém delegation, in speaking in  support of this’resolutiôn: Theré must be many  among us here this’ morning who have never known  Unesco under any other Director-General than Dr,  Luther Evans, Dr, Evans had brought to Unesco an  experience of its work which dates from the very first  Preparatory Commission in 1945; when delegates  from some forty countries mét in London under condi-  tions not representing very much improvement upon  those which Londonérs had endured during the previous  six years. Buf despite the rigorous conditions, '  Unesco's Constitution was hammered out, and few  delegations worked harder at that task than that of the    United States of America on which Dr, Evans {hen  servad, Thus began that 1ong association with Unesco  which Dr, Evans confinued, at'tirst through his  service on the United States National Commission,  then through his own membership of the Executive  Board, and culminating in his distinguished position  as our chief executive, which he now relinquishes,
6,2 We all acknowledge with gratitude the gifts  which Dr: Luther Evans has brought to Unesco, and  by which Unesco's work has been enviched, ‘His  tremendous energy, assisted by a remarkable mem-  ory, and guided by a real devotion to what he has  regarded as the main tasks of Unesco, has made him  a force for which Unesco has every cause to be  supremely grateful, ‘Nor, Mr, President shall' we  ever forget the warmth and impact of Dr, Evans!  personality, He has goñe far to convince many of us  I am sure, on'nimerous occasions, that the peoples  of the world can be divided most conveniently into two  categories: those who live in the wide and generous  society of Texas, {nd those who 1ivé in the more  cramped and éonstricted world outside, Indeed,  sometimes I havé elijoyed his stories most when they  have been told neither in my oWn language nor in that  of the United States, but in the French language. And  sometimes when I haye heard him ‘tell his stories in  French, I havé been reminded just a’little of an earlier  teller of stories; the gréat English poet, Geoffrey  Chaucer, who mentioned in his Canterbury Tales the  distinguished lady ember of à religious order who  spoke French after the fashion of Stratford-atte-Bowe,  and you will remember that Chaucer added, in the  next line just a little unkindly, the. French of Paris  was to her unknown,
6.3 Mr, President, - very | seriously I wish also to”  PE  regard,  with loyal and stéadfast devotion has’ ‘stood by grind  Dr, Evans and Uñesdo throughout their joint yéars of  service. ‘’Perhaps Dr, and Mrs, Evans will forgive  me if I recall a remiark made at'an ‘ Anglo-Américan  dinnér in honour of the Pilgrim Fathers, who went  forth trom the British Isles to find new homes in  North America: "Do not let us forget the Pilgrim  Mothers, because they not only faced the same hard-  ships but they had also to put up with the Pilgrim  Fathers',
6.4 Finally,’ Mr. ‘President, I must réfrèté uw  can, from the ail tdo fréquent English, custom “of  speaking on these oécâsions as though’ one weté  delivering an obituary notiéé, Dr; Evans hâd'already  had a most distinguished career, quité apart fram  his great service’ té Unescoi he was Head of the  Library of Congrèss ‘at the age of torty- two, which  was a rémarkable achievement, and we none of us  have any doubt that he will continue to havé‘à most  distiriguished career in the future, We wish both Dr,  and Mrs, Evans the very best of good forluriè in the  years ahéad, They leave us enriched by unique ex-  perience and by the friendship and affection of a host  of new friends, We hope they will nèver ‘forget us,  and we, for our part, shall never forget them,
6,5 This morning, we say farewell to Dr, Luther  Evans as Director-General; we welcome his succes-  sor, Dr, Veronese, and we have no doubt that Unesco  will make further great strides during the next period      XXV  as it has done in the last, Let us warmly thank Dr,  and Mrs, Evans for all they have contributed to  Unesco and wish them the very best of good fortune  during the years ahead,  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 call upon Mr, Maeda, Head of the delegation of  Japan,
8,1 Mr, MAEDA’ (Gépan} _  Mr, President and fellow delegates, in spite of  my great hesitation in coming up tô the rostrum on  this occasion, owing to my inadequate mastery of the  working language, English,” I feel bound to say a few  words, whole-heartedly associating myself with the  previous distinguished orators in _presenting my  humble tribute on behalf of the Japanese to, Dr, Luther  . H, Evans, who is now, lo my deep regret, ‘leaving .  our Organization, .I most sincerely want Dre Evans  to know how much we, the Jenene, have appreciates  Phar And
8,2 Ithink that all the Ta here might agree  with me that one of the, ‘most remarkable achievements  of Dr, Evans düring his service consists in strength-  ening the bond of the Unesco Secretarlat with the  National Commissions of Member States, And to this  end Dr, Evans has made energetic and unliring’ efforts  to bring Unesco into close relations with t he Member  States in the implementation of Upesco's programme.
8,3 A vivid testimony | to this fact was Dr. Evans"  visit to my country on the. occasion of the: Reglonal  Conference of National Commissions in‘Asia, in
1956, to which Japan had the ‘honour. of serving as the  host country, , At that time, Dr, Evans. gave great  impetus and capable ‘guidance to our ‘Regional | Con-  ference,’ which, marked a great success in putting  forward many important, ‘resolutions’ and. recommen-  dations which had the consénsus of the Asian countries,  including, for example, the. initiative taken on the  present Major Project on ‘Mutual' Appreciation of  Eastern and: Western Cultural Vaiues. i am sure that  -all the participants in that Conference would admit  that it might not have, been such a success, had it not  _ been for Dr, Evans* personal attendance and eager  attention, his whole-hearted support and efficient  assistance, _. .
8.4 This achievement is just” oné ‘angle instance, Co  I shall not try, to élaborate the many others here: how  much he has Increased the efficiency of ‘the Sécretariat  through his guldanée, how suceessfully. hé has iniro-  duced the democratic procedure in the preparation  and execution of the programme,’ How.h hard he has  laboured to bring the ambitious plan of our. ‘magni- .  ficent ‘permanent Headquarters, to this’ tangible. reality.  Above all, how great and fascinating | is his personality  with his great candour and energy, not, to speak of  his constantly smiling face and his cheerful, ‘laughing  voice which emanate from his’ loving kindness for  humanity, ‘Al these qualities of his are well known,  therefore I merely, wish to repeat how grateful we are  to him and how highly we ésteem him for all that he  has done for our Organization and, consequently, for  the welfare of mankind, 1 wacmly sugport the  resolution before us,
8.5 Dr, Evans now leaves the Secretariat, but he  is still Dr. Evans, and always with us in Unesco as
326  PLENARY MEETINGS  one who Is continuously and indefatigably devoted to  the cause of Unesco,  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon Mr, Stirling, Head of the delegation of  Australia,
10,1 Mr, STIRLING (Australia):  Mr, President, fellow delegates, -my colleagues  of the Australlan delegation and I are delighted to join  in tribute to Luther Eyans, who has for five and a half  years filled with distinction a post of great difficulty  and complexity - a term of service which is, I believe,  longer than that of any previous occupant of this office.  We also Join in tribute to Mrs, Evans who has been so  great and so gracious a partner, During these five and  a half years, the Organization has taken a shape which  has given us much cause for satisfaction, . I am sure  that the judgement of the future will be that Unesco has,  in this period, set a course which moves to the fulfil-  ment of its objectives but is at the same time both  practical and realistic, and a great part of the credit  will belong to Luther Evans.
10.2 He came here after many years of great work  in the United States of Anierica;, ‘from his students 1  have often heard of his inspired teaching at Dartmouth,  and later at Princeton}. then came the years as  Librarian of Congress in the late forties dnd, as one  of his grateful constituents, i can speak of this at first  hand. To see something of the Library in those days  was to be like Aladdin in the Caye of Wonders, 1  nearly used the expression "Wonderland !, rémember-  ing what Luther. Evans did for, one of the world's great  classics, We think of his Library ‘of Congress not  only for its collections of ‘books;; but as a great forum  for the writers, poets, thinkers and musicians of  _ many countries and many civilizations, Luther Evans  brought this equipment and this vision to Unesco,
10.3 During his term here, Luther Evans has recog-  nized that limited resources. fiean concentration of -  effort, From this has developed the concept of Major  Projects, which has enabled Unesco to give special ;  . emphasis to research on compulsory education and to  mutual understanding in vital tields, and to achieve  significant results, It is the’ Direttor ~General ‘whom  we must thank for the, deyelopment of the Participation  programme which has decentralized Unesco's pro- .  gramme in a most valuable way.’ This has enabled  Unesco.and the Member States,’ in partnership,’ to  work towards’ à common ‘goal and uridertake activities  which neither could have attempted alone, This policy  has developed an invaluable spirit of co-operation,  One of the great problems Unesco has to face is to  maintain a balance in its programme between what it  has come to call ‘the. developed and the ‘underdeveloped  Member States; in this the Director-General has  notably succeeded, He has given help where it is most  needed and, at the same ‘time, ensured that all mem-  bers of the Unesco family share in the berefits of this  great co-operative enlérpilae, i express the hope that  the Director-Generalts successor may. be as success-  ful as Luther Evans in establishing a satisfactory  balance between the various Unesco activities and the  competing calls for assistance from all corners of the -  world; being Dr. Vittorino Veronese, 1 feel convinced  that he will be,
10.4 At much personal sacrifice, Luther Evans has   PLENARY  managed to visit practically all the Member States  during his period in office, and we in Australla; who  are so far removed geographically from the heart of  Unesco, realize how big an urideriaking it has been |  for the Director-General to travel the world to make  personal contact with Unesco's far-flung membership,  But we also realize how valuable these visits have  been both to Unesco and to the Member Statés. I  would like the Director-Gensral to know how welcome  his visit waa to Augtralla in 1955; how encouraging  we found it, and how impressive was his own contrl-  bution, : As was sald of Sir Christophér Wren, at’  St. Paul's in London, "Circumspice!', If Luther  Evans needs a memoria) for his work over these five  hard years, look around - it is here ii Unesco House,  opened and used with such pridé during this tenth  session of the Conferencé, ‘ The‘coristruétion'of a  great building like this calls for a tremendous feat  of organization, Few of us, Iam sure, realize what  has been involvéd from its original conception  through all the stages of désign, planning, contracting,  supérvising, furnishing, equipping and decorating -  to the point where, in a race against time, it was  “ ready for our convenience and enjoyment on 3  November, Luther Evans steered thé Unesco ship  {nto her stately harbour, or perhaps more appro-  priately, he piloted the great airliner into this giant  hangar, Add this great task was added to the normal  heavy responsibilities of administering the Unesco  programme and controlling a substantial budget and  a large staff, ' .
10,5 We all agree that the office of the Director-  General is not an enviable one, and the problems  faced by Luther Evans have made it particularly  unenviable, but he is a man whose stature was equal  to the, challénge. . As the Head of the delegation of the  United Kingdom has reminded us, -he comes from  Texas - a State which,’ like Australia, is small in  population but large in area, - It is a country of wide  horizons and very often of big mén, The Texan is  a man who "sees by day the vision splendid im the  sunlit plains extended, arid at night the wondrous  glory of the everlasting stars". With sdme such  vision, Luther Evans has been able to bring to Unesco  a broad conception and he has led us, and led us  strongly, along the path to international understand-  ing, The Australian delegation, with the greatest  pleasure, associates itself with the proposed  resolution,
11. . The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 call upon Mr, Sommerfelt, Head of the delegation  of Norway,
12.1 Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway): . -  Mr, President; the Norwegian delegation has’  great pleasure in associating itself with the tribute  paid to Dr, Evans in the proposed resolution, We  do'so in the desire to thank him for.the very great  work he has done for Unesco, first as a delegate,  then as a member of the Executive Board, and finally  as the Diréctor-General, After all that has been  said here I need not go into details,” but I subscribe  whole-heartedly to éverÿthing that has been said,  We thank Dr. Evans for all he has done for every  one of us, for every organization, for every National  Commission, for the way in which he has guided us  MEETIK OS
327  KKY  through a difficult period, We thank hit for hig  personal qualities; fn which I also include his happy  choice of wité, We thank him for his happy solution  to the problem of {he Headquarters, and last but not  least, for the excellent organization of the tenth  session of the General Conference, For anyone who  has been present at all Unesco's Conferences it has  been à great pleasure and à great satisfaction to have  taken part in this one, which may be sald to be the  best organized of all of them. ;
12,2 Dr, Evans has left a legacy which will help to  guide us in our work towards the realization of the  ideals of the Constitution. We wish Dr. and Mrs,  Evans all happiness in the years to come,  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call Mr, Seydoux, Deputy Head of the delegation  of France. ,
14,1 Mr, SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from  the French): 7 à :  Mr. President, ladles and gentlemen, I should  like - very simply, but with sihcere feeling - to  associate myself with previous speakers in saying,  not goodbye, but "au revoir" to Luther Evans,
14,2 1 speak not only as one of my country's dele-  gates, but also as a former colleague; foi I have  known him since 1945 - as have several members of  the French delegation who are here today and who,
1 can assure him, will always remember him as  valued friend, : ~
14.3 Now that his term of office is ending, I should  like to stress the fact that for the last five years  Luther Evans has worked unstintingly, without sparing  his héalth, in order to give of his best to Unésco,  Others have already spoken of the part he has played  as an adrñinistrator and the imipetus hé has given to  the Organization. I should like to add something about  his part as a builder, for it is in great measure to  him that we owé this magnifiéent building, which has  called for the admiration of all the delegations, and  particularly’ of my own. ‘1 should'alsé liké to mention  the part he has played in the world at large,‘ the faith  and enthuslasm’ demonstrated iri his visits to the. °  majority of Unesco's Member States,” move especially  those which are confronted by acuté and thorny problems  in the educational and cultural sphere, ‘He has a place  of his own in the liné of Diréétôrs-General, past and  to come, who bring their ability, Intélllgerice and  devotion to the sérvice of Unesco: : He will be remem-  bered as’ the man who ‘made it his special aim to win  the confidence and full support of thé Member States -  knowing that Uneséo's ‘work could not be really  effective without their confidence and their constant  co-operation, During his term of office Unesco has  considerably strengthened its claim to being a world-  wlde institution, It has admitted States with varying  ideologies and young States which have recently  gained their independence, - - .
14.4 Speaking as a delegate of my country, 1 should  like to say with what pleasure Paris and France as  a whole have welcomed Dr, Luther Evans and his  charming, friendly wife, whose kind and courteous  hospitality has been extended to everyone interested  in Unesco. Both of them have won our affection by  their simplicity, their cordiality, and their easy  approachability. As evidence of his interest in French   XXV PLENARY:  culture, Dr, Evans, despite his heayy | burden of ‘work,  has made an effort which we Frenchalways particularly  appreciate . > he has learnt our lapguage; And he  speaks it with an ease which calls forth the admiration  of all Frenchmen who have had the pleasure and -  honour of meeting him, Dr, and Mrs, Evans are  about to return to the United States, 1should like to  assure them that when they leave Unesco and France  they will not be altogether removed from our Orga-  nization, our country or its capital, They have be-  come friends of France, they are citizens of Paris,  and they have both deserved well of Unesco,
15. ‘The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I now call upon Dr. Luther Evans, the outgoing  Director-General,
16,1 Dr. EVANS, Direcior-General:  Mr, President, friends, one would have to be de-  vold of ordinary human qualities not to be deeply  moved by the generosity shown by the General Con-  ference, and by the friendly words which have been  addressed to iny wife and myself this morning by the  Chairman of the Executive Board, the Heads of the  various delegations and by Mr. Seydoux of France,  I accept your generous statements with profound  thanks, with pride, and also with humility. .
16,2 The task of Director-General of Unesco is a  mission as well as a function, and this mission  carries with it a wonderful compensation of its own.  ‘The honour this post commands, to serve and to  represent the collaboration of nations in education,  science and culture, surpasses.the merits of any man,  My memory recalls at this time the incessant and  manifold contacts I have had, ranging over most of  the world and reaching to the frontiers of the human  spirit; . it also recalls the communion of cultures  which we are éngaged in strengthening, the boiling  cauldron of ideas which the Director-General must  constantly stir, the intellectual confrontations which  he must help arrange and this aid the soul'of our age  to express itself, .If anyone here today should ex-  press thanks, it 1s your retiring Directdr-General,  who for five years and five months has enjoyed the  extraordinary privilege of Hving such a full life,
16,3 It is.true that the burden a Director-General  carrles is heavy, -and that the existence he must  lead, In cominunion with the whole world, can be  particularly solitary, But the confidence of Member  States and their peoples, the dedication of the Secre-  tariat, the sympathy of all the free and creative  spirits who have demonstrated a readiness to respond  to the appeals of Unesco, and thus to provide inex-  haustible sources of inspiration and courage, provide  him with the strength to carry the burden, -
16,4 I have greatly benefited from the friendly  sympathy so generously given from all these sources  of support, and I now declare my profound gratitude,  I call on everyone who has supported and encouraged  me, to do the same for my successor, I assure you,  with real knowledge of the matter, that he fully  merits it,
16.5 I have known Vittorino Veronese for many  years, We served together on the Executive Board  in 1952 and 1953, and our collaboration in the service  of the Unesco cause, far from being decreased after  "I became Director-General was in fact continuously
328     NEETINGS  increased and mfde closer, - culminating In the last  two years during his presidency, of the Execuliye Board,  I have always found him ready to exerçisé his respon-  sible functions in'a‘apirit of understanding and co-.  operation, and ready to strive to improve the means  by which the Board and the Director-General develop  their joint action, I am glad to have the opportunity  today to bear witness to his merits and to assure you  of his greatness, RE
16,6 Our new Chief possesses an instinctive tineness  of nature, to whlch has been added the gentleness of  that Mediterranean culture which we all recognize as  being like an eternal springtime of the spirit, He adds  to these qualities a considerable experience in worldly  affairs, a penetrating intelligence, and an extraordinary  talent for human relations; all these make up an  unusually attractive personality, His preparation,  both as an administrator and a diplomat, for his new  duties, has been admirable,
16,7 Vittoriro Veronese is also a conscience, ‘A  religious man in the truest sense of the word, he is  deeply attached to the spiritual yalues which must  guide the actions of Unésco, .he has a zealand a  warmth of deep conviction which can only enrich our  Organization, Far from limiting his vision to a narrow  horizon, his faith will on thé contrary keep his mind  open wide to the faiths of others. Tolerance, as I  have said in many speeches since I have been Director-  General, Is not indifference; only a man of conviction  can respect the convictions of others, Veronese will  speak for himself as to his ideas about Unesco's future,  but there is one thing which I can say, and which he A  could not, in modesty, say! I have been greatly’ tm-  pressed during the years since I met him at Beirut  ten years ago, by Veronese's sense of equilibrium and  moderätion, This is a quality of capital importance  for a Director-General of Unesco, in view of the  diversities of aspirations whicl must be reconciled in  the work of the Organization, In particplar, he makes  an effort to unite in Unesco's action the aspirations  of the creative individuals who are the salt of the  earth and the avant-garde of international co-operation  and of all human progress, and the démands of the  masses which are the real stuff of history in our epoch.  He brings’ to his work a generous solicitude for the  educational, sélentific and cultural advancement of the  less- -developéd countries, and he understands the  priority which you, the General Conference, wish to  be given in this field, .
16,8 (Translation from the Spanish)! And now, 1  should Hke to say a few words in “Spanish, ; It would  be untrue for me to say that I am leaving without any  feeling of sadness; were I to say so, I should be -  merely feigning indifference, for it is impossible to  leave Unesco without regret: “Unésco is not just an  institution - it is a venture in which we are feeling  our way and trying our strength, a fascinating venture  at this stage when so much remains to be done and  so many problems to be solved, Above all, it is a  vocation from which it 1s not easy to tear oneself  away,
16,9 (Translation trom the French): But does one  ever really leave Unesco? From thé very first day  when we responded to its call, it has spurred us on  with its message of hope. As far as I am concerned,  that call has never ceased to echo in my heart or that  message of hope to encourage me on my way, lam   ‘PLENARY MEETINGS xxv  about to leave this building which grew up under my  supervision, but my faith in Unesco .- the true  purposes of Unescô - which brought me here and has  been confirmed and strengthened during my term of  office, will remain with me wherever I go,
16,10 Mr, President, I should like to close with a  short quotation from one of the greatest Americans,  I refer to Abraham Lincoln's second inaugural  address, in which he spoke words that we might all  well remember as we go forward with the work ot  Unesco: "With malice toward none, with charity for  all”,
17.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French): -  Ladies and gentlemen, the applause with which  you greeted Dr, Luther Evans when he came forward  to speak - the ovation that told you, Sir, of our  gratitude and appreciation - makes it unnecessary  for me to call for a vote on the draft resolution I  read out to you just now.
17,2 With your permission, I will therefore regard  it as adopted by acclamation, ;
17,3 Ladies and gentlemen, the General Committee  felt that it would be appropriate to extend equally to  Mrs, Luther Evans, with the greatest respect, the  tribute of appreciation we are today offering to her  husband, . .
17,4 We are well aware, Madam - as the succes-  sive speakers at this meeting have recalled, in  terms which you must have found very moving - of  the constant support you have so discreetly and per-  ceptively given to the outgoing Director-General in  his task, and I would like to assure you that the  emotion we now read in your face, the justifiable  pride we know you to be feeling, are understood by  all who are gathered here, and are shared; for we  all realize how much self-denial and sélf-sacrifice  have been required in the life you have led with such  distinction and dignity beside Dr, Luther Evans,  giving him tireless support, and a devotion which  has certainly done much to further his noble and  effective work, - We hope you will accept these few  flowers as a very respectful token of our gratitude  and of our cordial and unanimous good wishes for  your happiness when you return home,
17,5 I now call upon Dr, Veronese,  INSTALLATION OF DR. VITTORINO VERONESE IN THE OFFICE  OF DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF UNESCO
18,1 Dr, VERONESE (Translation from the French):  Mr, President,. ladies and gentlemen, the first  time I set foot in this imposing meeting hall, I had a  feeling of standing isolated and overwhelmed at the  foot of these stern, bare walls, like cliffs carved  by the sea and the winds; I was acutely conscious of  the contrast between the smallness of the individual  and this bold construction in which the austere purity  of technical achievement is softened by no compro-  mise, not even by this rostrum,
18,2 Today I no longer feel isolated; - you are with  me, the representatives of 81 Member States and 6  Associate Members, who have resolved, once for  all, to contribute through education, science and  culture to the peace of the world and the welfare of
329     mankind,” And you have singled ine out to serve you  in this joint venture and to shoulder, for six years,  the heavy responsibility for your successes and your  failures, PR , :
18,3 I do not feel isolated, for the Executive Board  is by my side, like an enlightened guide in whom 1  place my trust, I thank its Chaifman, His Excellency  Mr, Readi, for the noblé and heartening words he has  just uttered, "It is in the Executive Board that I hive  learnt most about Unesco, and it-is there that I have  acquired unforgettable experienci, co
18,4 - Then again, I ain in France, which is to me a  second motherland, in that atmosphere of frank  friendship and keen intelligence yrhich Is sé great a  help to us in reaching beyond the limits of our own  individuality; Through you, Sir, I would convey to  the authorities and the people of your country, !  would convey to Paris, my feelings of gratitude and  joy at being able to live in this singularly favoured  land,
18.5 Another reason why I do not feel alone is that  I can look back on the benefits I have received from  all those who, during the many different stages of my  life, have helped me to become the man who now  stands before you with a solemn promise to dedicate  his best faculties to the task with which you have  entrusted him, --
18,6 - At this moment I can see the face of my mother  who lavished kindness on me and never spared herself  for me; 1 think of my native town, Vicenza, its art  and culture, its spiritual lifé and its charitable {nsti-  tutiods, such as the Congrégation of Charity which  helped me, by a scholarship, to continue my univer-.  sity studies, I shall never forget the precious heritage  of social training and moral inspiration which I  received from youth movements; through them I came  into contact with teachers whose names, which I-  cannot list here, will be for evei engraved fn the -  heart of their grateful pupil,’ I have gained experience  and enrichment from countless contacts which I have  had all over-the world, in every continent, with all’  types of people, - regardless of their political, philèso-  phic or religious outlook, Lastly, I have something  of the heart and mind of my people; I am linked with  the universal destiny of my nation - the fation which  moved Giuseppe Mazzini'to say: ‘I love my country  because of the love I bear to all mén's countries", ‘
18,7 - Again, I do not stand alone, ‘because ‘others  have goriè before me along this difficult trail, bristling  with obstacles, scarcely yet blazed, that leads to  international co-opération; I have in mind the dis-  tinguished men who have led Unésco hefore me -  Julian Huxley, Jaime Torres Bodèt and Luther Evans.  I do not wish to repeat their praises, nor to remind  you onée again of the claims they havé to ‘our énduring  esteem; for these thirigs are common knowledge,
18,8 I come to this Organization at'a time when it  is beginning to pass'from adolescence to vigorous  young adulthood. No one can forget what it owes to -  those who have shaped it. Each acéording to his  individual vocation and the gerilus of his country, each  bearing the stamp of his own culture, and each, we  may perhaps say, chosen for a given phase in a  history which is still so short - each has left his im-  print on this community of thought and action that we  call Unesco, To these men I pay sincere tribute and  assure them of my gratitude,   XXV
18,9 _ I cannot but {urn for a moment; with a special  word of friendship, té my Immediate predecessor,  Thank you, Dr, Luther Evans, «for the token of es-  teem you give mea few months ago before this -:  gathering, and for the appeal yoil made to it on behalf  of the new Director-General, : As you stated earller,  at the end of the general discussion, and once again  today, it is true that you dnd I hive ‘worked together,  to the best of our ability and in all loyalty, for the  good of Unesco, ‘ The, General Conference, by recently  approving the programme, ‘and budget which you pre-  sented to it, in agreement.with the Executive Board,  furnished proof of the high regard in which you are  held, ‘The motion just approved well expresses what  we owe to you. This building, this great and  beautiful building, erected during your administration,  may now and for some time to come give you a feel-  ing of nostalgia, but it will also fill you with just  pride and in it you will always find something of  yourself.
18,10 Well, Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen,  this is the man you have elected, ‘ This election is an  honour beyond my deserts, It is also an honour pald  to my country, I wish now to state that, clearly as  this‘assembly has expressed its will (illustrating  thereby the rule of democracy, in which we put our  - trust as the only means by which unity can emerge  from differences of opinion), I feel myself - and I am  sure you expect as much of me - to be, in the first.  place, independent of any particular majority and,  in the second, the Director-General who must serve  all members of the Organization,
18,11: But it is time for me to tell you of my ideas  about Unesco, its exciting work, and the forces  capable of serving it, .
18,12. My background accounts for. my liking to  consider things from every angle, and my habit of |  trying not to overlook any aspects which may, at  first sight, seein ditficult to reconcile, I think ex-  perience has even taught me. that no. equilibrium; no  progress, no peace is ‘possible without certain’con-  tradictions, I have no wish to outline a philosophy.  at this’ point; Iam merely making an observation, -  Equilibrium. fesults from à balance of opposlies - a  state of tension is fhe prelude to every advance;  peace, true peace, means the establishment, ina  spirit of genuine friendliness,- of proper harmony  between all the interests at stake, . The life of Unesco  is Ukewise goyerned by. thesé laws. In our Organiza-  tion I-seé ‘several springs; of éontrasting forces and  currents. :But far from feeling dismay, I regard this.  as proof that we are indeed at grips with the realities  of life, not sailing in the clouds, -
18,13 À first antithesis derives from the tnter-  governmental character. ‘ot thé Organization, Unesco  inevitably expresses a political resolve, however  democratic the procedures by. which that resolve is  taken may bé; and, thoügh operating at the inter- |  national level, - it remains governmental in composi-  tion, . But:Unesco's ‘work is done in the spheres of  edication, science, culture and mass communication,  which are in principle the freest, in a certain sense,  the most personal and, since they are the most  creative of man's activities, should be the most  independent, .
18,14 This gives rise toa second antithesis - that  between the limitless requirements of intellectual
330  PLENARY MEETINGS  lite and the strict rationed administrative and  financial réscûrces on which It'must depend, Yet the  two havé to be reconciled in practical décisions,  in-  variably involving sacrifices, : Thus the’ development  of intellectüal and spiritual life is'the outcome of a’  social synthesis, into which inhumerable factors enter  and which can never be entirely satisfactory: / The"  difficult elaboration of this synthesis brings out an -  essential difference between administrative and finan-  cial procedures, which are governéd by certain laws,  and intellectual activities, which are inspired by the  loftlest principles of faith and religion, the passion  for knowledge or beauly, and love of mankind, Culture  and science would recognize no bounds'save those of  the human mind and spirit, yet they have to contend  with barriers inseparable from budgetdry consldéra-  tions, ‘ And educationists, scholars and artists have  to learn, through bitter. experience, that’the noblest  arguments must needs yléld, ‘all too often, to material  difficulties, To learn to take into account all these ‘  factors which, gradually united, bring about a balance  permitting action and progress,” is hard - but salutary,
18,15 The great variety of Member Statés In Unesco  produces another kind of pluralism, which, while  constituting a source of fruitful collaboration, can also  find expression in differences of interests and aspira-  tions, Some countries, in international collaboration,  tend to give first place to the loftier demands of cul-  ture and science; others, economically more or less  serinusly relarded, attach moré irimediate fmpor-"  tan¢% «o the extension of primary education and the  spreading of a knowledge ‘of modern technology and  its methods, It behoves Unésco not merely to hold the  balance between these two opposing yef equally legiti-  mate trends, but actually to exploit them as a means  of promoting valuable exchanges,’ Unesco, whilst  appealing to the more favoured nations on behalf of  others experiencing the full bitterness of the anclent  axiom: "Primum vivere deinde philosophari" - "live  first and then philosophize'about it" - never ceases  to remind ôné and all that without ideals; culture and  the striving after knowledge, - there can be no life  worthy of man, Assistance to scientific and cultural  “ co-operation does iiot préjudice t technical assistance,  but, on thé ééntrary, lends it impetus, The rains that  make the lowlands fertile are formed in the upper  layers of the atmosphers, -
18,16 1 belong toa county whieh achieved its poli-  tical unity less than a century ago, Many parts of its  territory were long ruléd by" different authorities;  The king who was ‘one of thé ‘main artisans of my  country's unity sald, on an historic occasion: "We.  cannot remain deaf to cries to paln',’ the eries issuing  from his divided compatriots, : Even now we, like all  other nations, still have economic minoritiés, who ‘  have not'sucéeéded in achieving a standard of Hving  which should be thé normal rule for all citizens of the  same country, I havé therefore always been Intérested  tn the processes of national libération and of economic  expansion alike, Unédco's interest extends to all the  countries of the world; which are grappling with the  same problems, taking part in the same struggle  against poverty, and looking to education and the'tech-  niques devised by science to improve the lot of man.  And I would like to assure them, one and all, that  we, here, likewise "cannot remain deaf to cries’ of pain",
18,17 I believe, moreover, that the trend of social   PLENARY  evolution is ‘such that the work of peace in which‘the  higher forms of culture and scléntitic research’ are -  engaged would itself bé jeopardized if their bénefits  were pot extended beyond the limited circles within  which they aré at present enjoyed, - - Technical assis-  tance is more than a gift made by one group’ of nations  to anôthér; it 18 a matter of mitual advantage, The  countries receiving this assistance will uriderstand  that its sources must be safeguarded = the finé -  laboratories of the great institutes and universities;  the admirable educational systems sôñie countries  have established at ali levels of schooling; ‘ museums  and libraries, those temples of culture; and the  training grounds’ of teachers and experts, In this  connexion, ‘thé specialized international organizations  and couricils have an important part to play, and their  work must be ‘encouraged, but they must not forget  that they are urider an obligation to find correspon-  dents or to promote the establishment of national  branchés in as many countries as possible, and es-  pecially in those where the neéd for promoting  intellectual co-operation is most urgent. Such co-  operation should be #egärded by all as no less vital  than the handing on of knowledge and experience  through technical assistance; -
18, 18° The task facing all our’ Mémber States and  Associate Members is a double one - to organize  collaboration between specialists and at the highest  level, and to bring about the spread of knowledge  and techniques by direct nssistance and participation  In Mémber States’ activities’ - and I would lke to see  them approach it'in'a spirit of unity and confidence.
18,19 It is one of Unesco's maid duties to convince  specialists that their research work must have a  bearing on technical assisfariée, evén when ft is not  directly ‘associated with it, Similarly, ‘thé recip-  ients of technical assistance’ must comie td understand  that it is iri'tact inthe laboratories,’ institutes, uhiver-  sities and scientific’ congrésses that the techniques ;  subsequétitly handed on to them are’ worked out.  What I want is not'a balance between these two trends,  but contiriuous, spontaneous ‘co-operation,
18,20 There is yet, another’ paradox which Unesco  has to overcome - the deépest-- ofi'which I can only  touch briefly, An Organization’ liké‘oirs must strive  to maintain a strict ‘and ‘dispassionate niebirality.  towards philosophies,’ systems, ‘political beliefs and  religions! It cannot, “however,” ‘retriain alien, deaf -  and blind, to the noblest ‘expression of hüman thought,  to the moral rhisgivings of the contemporary world,  to the yearning and quest for a code of social ethies  to match thé century of hucléar discoveries dnd inter-  planetary conquest, : Né, impartiality ¢ does not ean  indifferencé. Unesco'can and mist bé ‘keenly aware  of the need for a renewal of creallye thought if we are  to have a new world’ of pedcé and prospärity.
18,21 Thé pith of an organization Like urs ‘must  necessarily be hédged around by this multiplicity of  demands, ‘It would be pointless and futile to deplore  that fact; for these demands are inherént in the véry  - nature of Unesco, It is essential for us to be alive  to them, ‘to appraise’ them ‘soberly i and to go steadily  forward without sacrificing à "single one of them,  Unesco's rôle is not to put an end to the complexity  of reality but rather to come to grips with that com-  MEETINGS    plexity, and to draw opposing forces into a common  movement towards a goal beyond and above all oppositions.’
18,22* To'fuitil its mission, Unesco, of éourse;  . needs financial résourées'and'you have supplied it  with them to the extent that you haye'depmed In your  wisdom to bé sufficient, ‘ But what {} needs above all  is men who will tépresent it aiid act fort ='both at -  Headquarters and in the field, It 1s'to this Secretariat,  so deserving and ateadfast, that 1 âddress myself on  the eve of becoming its chief administrative officer,  ‘| am aware of {is professional ability,” which is basic,
1 am also aware of the faith which it brings to the  carrying out of its daily work, We can never have too  much faith in face of those dread adversaries - fear,  selfishness and hate, The work of the Secretariat is  imbued with intelligence; goodwill, conscientiousness;  and every staff member puts his'whole heart into it,  It T am lo giidé them - these men and women of so  many different nations, races,’ ‘languages, ‘philo-  sophies and mentalities - they, for their part, must  support and help me, - If this great body of people  were to be divided among itself, it it were to mark.  time, if 1 were to fail to’ inspire it with confidence in  a man who expériences the same human, domestic  and spiritual difficulties as every member of it, 1  would not be entitled to expect its loyally and devotion,
18,23 It will be impossible for me to see everything,  know everything, supérintend everything, - 1 shall have  to rely on thé co-operation'of those whose responsi-  bilitles aré least rémoved from my own, those whose  ‘experience’ is more extensive than mine, those who,  ensure the continuity of the work; and likewise on  thosé who will be joining the staff in the future, bring-  ing fresh bléod to this ving entity ‘which we seek to  form together, :
18,24 -:In the Secretariat, 1 would like to play the.  part of thal man so aptly described by Emmanuel  Mounier when, in another’ context, © ‘he was defining the  advanced’ guard - that man ‘who kéeps a constant eye  on his troops on the’ march, keeps’ them in step, en~ _  courages thew when necessary and explains to them  their objective, When he moves, they move too, for  such is the mysterious oneness of a people and its  pilots, .,
18,25 ‘My respohaibilities will of course oblige me  to do à éertain amount of travelling, 1 do not know -  that I will have the capacity, even in the physical  sense, of Dr, Luther Evans, who managed: ‘in five  years to establish’contact, albeit hurriedly,’ with  nearly all the Mémbèr’ States on their home ground,
1 füily appreciate the valué of personal rélations;- of a  first-hand survey of problems and of an examination  on the spot of current projects, “My rule will be  simples” {n leave when I have to and’ come back as  soon as 1’dan}’ Thé primary task of a Director- > *  Gèneräl'is to bé part and pâféel of his Secretariat;  But I shall not shirk any task that takes me afield.  One thing of which I can assure the govérnments here  represented is that I shall riot hesitaté to go wherever  én dcuté problem, ‘a riew plan’to be studied, the need  to improve working relations,’ the investigation of the -  facts; or an acéurate knowledge of events on which  important decisions have to be based, require my  presence, Every continent has (ts specific problems  requiring solution, - It is clear to everyone that Asia  and Africa are at present the scene of exceptionally  rapid and far-reaching changes, But the rising  generation in Europe and America are also on the  threshold of upheavals which thé discovery of new   XXv PLENARY  sources of energy, the amazing applications of elec-  tronics and the extensive development of automation  are bound to entail before long, - The techniques which  will come into use in the newly. industrialized regions  may perhaps narrow the social differences which  separate continents; it is not impossible, on the other  hand, that they may still further intensify those  differences, -But they do necessitate in every one of  those continents - whether Europe, Africa, Asia or  America - an urgent readaptation of education, a  close attention to sooial problems, and at the same  time a more fervent desire than ever to safeguard  and develop the cultural values in which the peoples  take pride as the expression of their inmost selves,  Civilizations are subject to change. “Our era probably  marks the dawn of one of these great historie trans-  formations,‘ It is highly probable, ' However, : that  developments in the Twentieth cenjury will be on a  planetary scale; that century will surely see revealed,  in à more complste, more fruitful and more {mpera-  tive form than in the past, the phenomenon of interna-  tional coroperation, : Unesco owes it to mapkind to  play a part in‘ this world-wide transformation, ;
18.26 The programme you have just adopted is a  reflection of Unesco's will to assume the rôle in-  cumbent upon it, Any necessary alterations, dele-  tions or additions can be made in the light of exper-  fence, I do not want to prejudge the future. I shall  carry out the programme scrupulously. But we are  all agreed that it is Unesco's programme - that is to  say, the programme not only ofthe Secretariat but of
81 Member States and 6 Associate Members; and  its value will be measured by the co-operation, 1 -  calls forth among all the members of the Organization,  The Secretariat will give of its best, but it is in the  countries you represent, ladies and gentlemen, in .  your various countries which are, pursuing the same  ideal, that Unescots, mission will be accomplished,
18.27 .In my view, the rôle of the Secretariat in  relation to the Member States should be that of an  auxiliary, but an essential auxiliary, . Viewed in this  light, it has à threefold task, As has so often been  said already, the Secretariat should be, first and  foremost, a stimulating and a _catalysing agenoy.  Unesco's work, 1 repeat, - -must be done through and  in the Member States, but, at the samie time, they  must be helped therein by wise and effective action  on the part of the Secretariat, - Secondly, ‘to quote a °  striking metaphor already used in this very hall, the  Secretariat should serve as the research department"  of the Member States - that is to say, not only a-  clearing house of information, but also a laboratory  for establishing and testing the new formulae for  international co-operation which ave required to meet  the new problems of a rapidly evolving world, The  services of this "research department" should be  constantly available to Member States, not only for  the implementation of the Organization's programme,  but also, should they so desire, to further such  action as they propose to undertake in respect of their  own programmes - bilateral, regional, or even  domestic, . --
18, 28, Finally - and this applies ore particularly  to the Director-General and his clésest associates -  the Secretariat should be able to avail itself of the  confidence reposed in it by Member States to make  timely use of Unesco's influence, the moral prestige
332     MEETINGS  attaching to its ideals and that which derives from the  growing success of its technical achievements, in what  I might call the diplomacy of international intellectual  relations, …
18,29 Unesco is not alone, - As an Organization’  essentially concerned with collaboration, its very life  depends on its contacts - contacts with its sister  organizations in the United Nations family and with its  Member States, It seems to me that, for the efforts  of all within this complex system to be effective, they  must be concentrated on common aims and directed -  along certain main lines of action which might be des-  cribed as Major Projects in international’ co-operation;  Unesco, I am convinced, has nothing to fear in sub-  mitting without reserye to such co- -ordination, On the  contrary, -it is only in this way that the special features  of: its own contribution can make their full impact, .
18,30 In spite of temptation, I shall refrain from  drawing out these remarks, or rather this apologia,  too far, I feel I should conclude, In doing so, I would  ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to convey a message  to your National Commissions and to all your fellow  countrymen who are helping to bring about the success  of Unesco,
18,31 It seems to me that this new building, with  its "Y" shape, is a very symbol of our duty, An  unknown Latin poet has written:  "Discriminé secta licorni  humanae vitae speciem  praeferre videtur"  ("By its forked character .- -  The symbolic letter of Pythagoras  Represents the life of man")
18,32 In fact, this character may be regarded as  symbolizing a law of progress: an initial straight line  dividing into two, . just as a tree trunk divides into ‘  branches, or a cell grows and splits into two, , The  term "Permanent Headquarters" is justified only in  so far as it relates to the physical location of Unesco,  but it is not the place where the traveller stops and  rests, his day's journey completed, - The very form  of its architecture is, on the spiritual plane, a per-  manent invitation to further, development. Unesco is  on the march, it is pressing on, and though, after  twelve years! work, it is ‘glad to be at home in its own  building, it is also now better, able to survey the road  ahead and turn its attention to the future. …
18,34 Dr, Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan when inaugura-  ting this building pronounced the words of an ancient  preyer, "Peace, peace, peacel' - "Santih! Santih!  Santihl",
18,35 I would reply to him in Petrarch's words,  "vivo gridando: pace ,,. pace... “pace,
18.36 And, from the bottom of my heart, 1 would  add the lines of the psalmist; "Unto thee, O Lord,  do I lift up my soul; O my God, 1 trust in thee; All  the paths of the Lord are mercy and truth",
18,37 Iam now ready, Mr. President, ladies and  gentlemen, to take the official oath as the new  Director-General of Unesco.
19 The PRESIDENT: (Translation from the French):  I will now ask Dr, Veronese to take the oath of  allegiance to Unesco.
20, Dr. VERONESE (Translation from the French):  I solemnly swear to exercise in all loyalty,   PLENARY MEETINGS Xxv  discretion and conscience the functions entrusted to external to the Organization, so help me God,  me as Director-General of Unesco, to discharge ' - ; ’  these functions and regulate my conduct with the 21, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  interests of Unesco only in view, and not to seek or The Conference takes note of this oath,  accept Instructions in regard to the performance of  my duties from any government or other authority The rneeting rose at 12,30 p.m,