4 December 1958, at 3.50 p.m,  Président: Mr, S, G, KHALIQ (Pakistan)  CONTENTS -  Third report of the Administrative Commission (conclu-  International Non-Governmental Organizations. .  Report of the Joint Meeting of the Programme and Admini-  sion):  strative Commissions ,
312  Membership of the Legal Committee, Reports Committee  and Headquarters Committee + + + + + + + + + 65 0 0  +  THIRD REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION (conclusion):  INTERNATIONAL NON-GOYERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS
1, The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and géntlemen, the twenty*fourth plenary  meeting is now open. This afternoon the Conference  will first conclude its consideration of the Réport of  the Administrative Commission (document 10 C/73  Rev.). The only chapter remaining to bé considered  is Chapter F - International Non-Governmental  Organizations, which includes four draft résolutions:
28, 29, 30 and 31, I call upon Mr, Baugniet, Chair-  man of the Administrative Commission, who will  present to us these four draft resolutions and the  observations of the Commission, beginning with para-  graphs 112-116,
2.1 Mr. BAUGNIET (Belglum), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French):  Mr. President,‘ ‘fellow delegates, the Administra-  tive Commission’ studied the questions relating to  international non-governmental organizations, It first  considered the policy to be followed regarding consul-  tations with these organizations.
2.2 For that purpose, it examined the careful  study made by the Executive Board, presented in  document 10 C/17,.
2,3 The delegations of Ecuador, the United Arab  ; Republic’ and the United Kingdom expressed doubts as  to the usefulnéss of collective consulfations designed  to associate, international non-governmental organiza-  tions with the preparation of Unesco's draft  programme,
2.4 The representative of the Director-General  drew the Commission's attention to the fact that this  procedure was based on the decision of the General  Conference taken at {ts seventh session, and that it  was on the whole satisfactory from the point of view  of the Secretariat, _
2.5 The representative of the Committee” ot Non-  Governmental Organizations, recalling a resolution  adopted unanimously by the recent Conference of
320  Non-Governmental Organizations in Consultative  Relationship with Unesco, urged that these consulta-  tions be continued.
2,6 Following on this discussion, and taking account  of these various remarks, the Commission submits  to you draft resolution No, 28, which "recommends  to the Director-General not to envisage, in 1959-
1860, collective consultations with the organizations  without the prior approval of the Executive Board",  Consultations will therefore be possible, but will be  conditional on the Executive Board's previous  authorization,
2.7 Thus you are called upon to take a decision  on resolution No, 28,  The PRESIDENT:  I call upon Mgr Maroun.
4,1 Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) (Translation from the  French):  Mr. President, allow me to draw the Conference's  attention to a discrepancy between ‘this resélution and  another resolution contained in document 10 C/71,  conceining the appraisal’ of Unesco's programmes,
4.2 Both resolutions déal‘with the sare subject,  namely collective conshltations with non-governmental  or ganizations during thé ‘preparation’ of the proposed  programme, Two different, ahd perhaps ‘contradic-  tory, opinions are ‘expresied in both these texts,  In the resohition’ concerning the apprafsal, it  is said that "Unesco, ih preparing aid implementing  its programmé, shall éstablish l thé closest co-  operation with inferna{fonal non- gove mental orga-  nizations specializing | in the 3 vai {ous sectors of  education, science and calture" y Itis therefore  recommended that,’ for the preparation of the pro-  gramme, close co- ‘épération bé'establishéd between  the Secretariat and ñon- -gôvernmental organizations.
4,4 On the othér hand, in the draft resolution now  under consideration, it is said that éollective‘con:.  sullatfons with these organizations should not be  envisaged in 1959-1960 without the prior approval of  the Executive Board.   PLENARY MEETINGS
4,5 ‘Mi, President, I consider that the General Con-  ference caniiot take two" different decisions on the same  subject, Perhaps these two texts should be harmon-  ized, I do not think that théy differ fundamentally,  Doubts have béen expressed with regard to the need or  usefulness of collective consultations; there was no  unanimity in the matter, but, as I pointed out during  the recent consideration of the appraisal of the pro-  grammes, this usefulness was definitely underlined,
6, The PRESIDENT:
1 would request Mr. Baugniet to comment on this  point,
6,1 Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French}; ir:  Mr, President, when the Administrative Commis-  sion decided té submit to you, for your approval,  resolution No, 28, which is now under consideration,  it was unaware of thé decision that had been taken or  was about to be 'laken by the Working Party on the  Appraisal of Unesco's Programmes; but, onre-  reading this resolution, I cannot see any difference  between the two téxts, The resolution which was read  out to you by the Lebanese delegate and which you  have already adopted says that "Unesco, in preparing  and implémenting its programme, shall establish the  closest co-operation with international non-  goveraméntal organizations specializing in the various  sectors of education, science and culture".
6.2 These consultations are desired by everyone,  and no member of the Administrative Commission  objected to such a procedure; on the contrary, every-  one hoped that these consultations would be as num-  erous‘and frequent as possible. However, certain.  doubts were expressed with regard to ' ‘collective  consultations, i.e, the meeting of representatives of  several non-governmental organizations with a view  to the joint study of certain projects, and such col-  lective consultations have simply been made conditional  on the prior approval of the Executive Board. That  is a secondary aspect of this important question - the  consultation of non-governmental organizations - and
1 see no discrepancy between resolution No, 28 and the  text already adopted by this assembly.
7. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr. Baugniet, Is this satisfactory to  the delegate of Lebanon? I call upon the delegate of  Lebanon.
8. Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) (Trañslation trom the  Freñch)r  Mr.- President, I apologize for again taking the  floor, As the Chairman of the Administrative Com-  mission has indicated; there is no fundamental dif-  ference or contradiction; the dis¢repancy-is. to be  found only in the drafting, - and it would perhaps.be ad-  visable to revise the latter in order to harmonize both  texts as far as possible, That is the question.’. The  Executive Board's prior approval of collective con-  sultations certainly ensures that the Board will be.  able to observe the policy defined by the resolution  concerning appraisal, but a slight change in the  drafting might lessen the difference between the  two texts,
9, ‘The PRESIDENT:  Has Mgr Maroun a revised draft resolution to  suggest?
10, Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) (Translation from the  French): ‘  Considering the conclusions of the Working Party  on the Appraisal of Unesco's Programmes, the Sec-  retariat's opinion concerning these collective con- ..  sultations, and the fact that the question of the  advisability of these consultations is submitted to the  Beard for its consideration, it is clear that these :  consultations are fully, justified. For these three  reasons, I propose, that the Conference reject the  Administrative Commission's draft resolution,
11.1 The PRESIDENT:  I would like to put to the vote the proposal of the  delegat“ of Lebanon, that we reject draft resolution  No. 28, :  (The vole was taken by a show of hands. )
11.2 The proposal is rejected by 3 votes in favour,
21 against, with 10 abstentions,
11,3 We now put to the vote resolution No. 28,  together with paragraphs 112-116, |  (The vote was taken by a show of hands, )  ti.4 Resolution No. 28 is adopted by 35 votes in  favour, none against, with 8 abstentions,
11.5 1 call upon the Chairman of the Administrative  Commission to present paragraphs 117-119 of the  Report and draft resolution No, 29.
12.1 Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French):  Mr, President, delegates, the Commission con-  sidered the recommendation of the Executive Board  that in the course of a review of the directives govern-  ing relations with international non-governmental  organizations which is to take place at the eleventh  session of the General Conference-special attention  should be devoted lo the classification of organizations  co-operating with Unesco, - .
12,2 A wide exchange of views ‘took place on the  principles which should guide the Director-General  and the Executive Board in the forthcoming ‘review of  the directives, After discussion of the document  which had been submitted to it, the Commission  decided to set up a drafting committed composed of  representatives of Australia, Belgium, Switzerland,  the United Arab Republic and the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics, who would submit a redraft of  this document,
12,3 The new. draft resolution w was further ‘amended  after considerablé discussion, and in view of these  amendments the delegation of the Union ot Soviet  Socialist Republics asked that their country be deleted  from the list of Member States on the drafting com-  mittee, The Commission then adoptéd by 36 votes -  to none, with 13 abstentions, the draft resolution  which is set out in'the report as No, 29 and which it  submits for your approval,
13.1 The PRESIDENT:  Any comments? Then we shall vote on draft  resolution No. 29.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands. )   XX1v PLENARY
13,2 The resolution 1s adopted by 42 votes in favour,  one against, and 8 abstentions, -
13.3 I call upoy the Chairman of the Administrative  Commission to present paragraphs 120-124 of the  Report and draft resolution No, 30,
14,1 | Mr; BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French); LI :  The Commission was’ then “called upon- to, consider  applications by intérnatioriäl non-goverñmental  organizations for édmission to consultative arrange-  ments, In the course of the general discussion;  several delegations éxpressed the view that the :  Executive Board had made negative recommendations  on a number of applications from organizations : which  seemed to meet fully the criterla-laid down by the .  Directives, and asked that a representative of the’  Boatd be present to answer questions; The Chairman  of the Commission consulted the Chairman of the -  Executive Board and the General Committee of the  Corferénce and informed the Commission that the  Exqcutive Board had decided not to be represented  at the meetings ‘of Commissions and Committees by  one of its members, as it3 views were expressed in  the reports presented in printed form, -
14,2 After a discussion as to thé proceduré to be  acopted in considering the document submitted to it,  the Commission decided by 28 Votes to 16, with 6  abstentions," to follow thé procédure suggested by the  Chairman, whereby the applications whose acceptance  bad not been recommended by the Executive Board -  i.e. those of the orgañfzallôns set out ir List B, -  paragraph 8 of the Recommendations of the Executive  Board (document 10 C/42) -  would be taken first, -and  individually, and the applications whose approval had  been recommended by the Executive Board - tie.  * those of thé organizations mentioned in List A of the  said Retomimendations = would be voted on en bloc,  By the same vote, thé Commission accepted the  Chairman's riling that only orie speaker - either a  representative of the appropriate non-governmental  organization, or a member of the Commission - would  be allswed to speak in favour of the applications whose  acceptancé had nôt been recommended by the Execu-  tive Board,
14,3 Some’ delegations ‘strongly protested against  the procedure adopted by the Commission duriñg the  examination of applications,‘ ‘on the grounds that it  led to disérimination, ,The delegation of Bulgaria  announééd. its intention of intervening on this matter  in the pleñary nieeting. “
14.4 The following organizations, authorized by -  the General Cohterérice to send observers, were  allowed to make statements: ‘Acadérite internationale  de la céramique}: :interhational Association of Workers  for Maladjusted Children; Centre, international  d'études esthétiques; UT
14.5 ‘After noting that the International Union of  Students for the United Nations had withdrawn its  application and after the Seecétariat had réplied to -  requests for additional information in the case of cer-  tain organizations, the Commission decided to propose  to the General Confererice, for ité appioval, draft  resolution No: 30. I consider that, with a view to the  proper organization of this discussion by the Con-  ference, it would probably be desirable to consider  MEETINGS
304  each of the parts of this resolution -i,e,, PartI,  admitting several organizations to consultative arrange-  ments, Part II, rejecting the applications by certain  organizations, and Parts III and IV, recognizing that  certain organizations do not yet meet the conditions  required for admission to consultative arrangements,  The PRESIDENT:  Thank you,. Any comments? I call upon the dele-  gate of Yugoslavia,
16,1 Mr. MATIC (Yugoslavia) (Translation from  the French):  Mr, President, the Yugoslav delegation has fre-  quently expressed its opinion on the question under  discussion: .We consider it an important question  and should like our opinion to be recorded on the  present occasion, - --
16,2 This problem has been discussed at length,  Compared with other problems relating to interna-  tional co-operation, it seems, at least at first sight,  to be of minor importance, - In fact, it is a question  of adding six international organizations to the long  list of those already admitted to consultative arrange-  ments with Unesco, ‘ Many organizations with con-~  sultative status are of considerably less importancé  than the six organizations which have given rise to  so many discussions and which represent the students,  youth, scientific ‘workers, journalists and broad-  casting organizations of East European countries in  particular, but also of other parts of the world _  (although to a smaller extent), What is of importancé ’  to Unesco, and to all of us here, is the fact that  these are thé only organizations representing the  youth, students, scientitic workers etc. of Eastern  Europe, In refusing to admit them to consultative  arrangements, Unesco is isolating itself from these  organizations and depriving itself of their experience,  which, for better or for worse, will influence the  world, » : 1. +.
16,3 We consider that Unesco, as an international  organization, and all of us, as members of Unesco,  would be able to benefit from the admission of these  organizations to consultative arrangements. .
16.4 The question therefore arises: ''Why has the  Administrative Commission refused consultative  status to these organizations, despite the numerous  speeches we have heard here in favour ‘of peaceful  international co-operation?" This status has been  refused - I regret to have to say it here - in the  spirit of the cold war, to which this Conference has  paid its tribute,
16,5 We are unable to ‘accept as valid the argu-  ments that these organizations : are political and that  it would therefore be incompatible with Unesgo's -  alms to grant them éonsultative status, Can we even  pretend that all the organizations which we have  already admitted to consultative arrangements have  no political trend? - Why then - dnd I mention two  instances chosen at random - was consullalive status  granted to the International Union of Socialist Youth  - and the Catholic International Association for Radio  and Television, ‘but refused, . for instance, to the  World Federation of Democratic Youth and the Inter-  national Broadcasting Organization? This difference  in treatment can be due only to political prejudice.
16.6 I wish to emphasize, as I did on a previous   PLENARY MEETINGS  occasion, .that no Yugoslav organization is a member  of the international organizations whose status we .-  are now considering. Our national organizations co-  operate with them on a bilateral basis} ‘they find this  co-operation useful, . despite the fact that they do not  always agree with the organizations! policy, ~. They.  co-operate with them just as they do with other simi-  lar organizations in other parts of the world, This -  . co-operation is inspired by. our policy, i.e; a policy  of international co-operation based on equality and ‘  uninfluenced by idéological considerations, We con-  sider that only so can we resolve problems common  to the entire human family, and that war is the only  alternative to this policy; --
16,7 This is why, fellow delegates, the Yugoslav  delegation again urges you in plenary meeting to  approve the admission of these organizations to con-  sultative arrangements, so that we shall not part  from one another with the disagreeable impression  that some of our decisions were strongly influenced  by political bias, which should not be tolerated in our  Organization,
17 The PRESIDENT:  ,1 call upon the delegate of Bulgaria,
181 My. BACHEV (Bulgaria) (Translation from  the French): .  Mr, President, the Administrative Commission  has, on the whole, done considérable work and we  shall be able to approve most of its results.
18,2 . The People's Republic of Bulgaria deeply  regrets, however,. that it cannot entirely approve ail  the Commission's recommendations and proposals,  and that it is obliged to express its disagreement  with certain parts of the Commission's report and  submit to the General Conference certain observa-  tions concerning the procedure which the Commis-  sion occasionally adopted in the course of its work,
18.3 The part of the report we cannot approve is  precisely the part we are now considering - namely,  Chapter F, paragraphs 120-124 and 126-128;
18.4 | Thé matter in question is Unesco's policy re-  garding non-governmental organizations which have  already been admitted to consultative arrangements  or which applied for such admission prior to the  opening of the present session of the General Con-  ference, -i-! .
18,5. - At its ntnh session, ‘the General Conference  had instructed the Executive Board and the Secreta-  riat to review the list of international non-  governmental organizatioris and consider the applica-  tions by new. organizations, ° ‘
18,6 . In order to carry, out this task, the Secretariat  bad prepared. documents,’ the volume of which, as  you are aware. ‘alarmed delegations and certdinly -  contributed to. the vote in favour of the resolution  which we approved the day before yesterday concern-  ing the limitation of Unesco's décuments.’ 100
18.7 On the basis of this voluminous” documentation,  we were entitled to expect the Executive Board to  maké a detailed, judicious and objective’ ‘analysis and  give convincing reasons for {ts proposals, . Unfortun-  ately, the result is far from satisfying us.‘ The  Executive Board has simply communicated these  documents to’ Member States and delegations in the  form in which they were prepared by the Secretariat;
305  "18,8  XXIV  the Board has submitted to us its decisions concerñ-  ing international non-governmental organizations Ina  peremptory’ manner, without any comment or valld  argument,’  Thesé cecisions “did not reflect in any ‘way the  real situation in this field; ignored the Directives  ‘concerning Unesco's relations with non- -governmental  ‘organizations; and ‘contributed nothing new or dons  structive in regard to its relations with certain inter-  nätionäl organizations which are representative’ of the  masses, have an imménse influence on all the con“  tinents in the world, and can thus facilitate éonsider-  ably the extension of Unesco's activities and ideals  among very large sections of the population of  numerous countries. |
18,9 The applications by these orgéntrations which  have’ considerably assisted in the popularization and-  even implementation of Unescots programnie have  been rejected, while consultative status has been  granted to organizations whose only merit is to have  vaguely expressed their intention of co-operating with  Unesco,
18.10- As we have not been informed of the Execitive  Board's discussions on this question or of ths reasons  for its proposals,’ our delegation has bet ‘able to -  judge the latter only in the light of the ‘documents which  have been presented to us and which we have carefully  studied, What is even more astonishing is that the  Executive Board refused to send one of its members to  the Administrative Commission to provide it with the  information and explanations not contained in the  documents,
18.11 In our opinion, such a procedure is.contrary  to all democratic usages of international assemblies  and affords further proof of the fact that the Executive  Board did hot, and could not, have any reasons justi-  fying the recommendations which it thought fit to,  submit to us,
18.12- These récommendatiôns- simply reflected a’  preconceived attitude - already affirmed on several  other occasions - of partiality foi certain international  organizations laown for their hostility towards certain  countries, "and of bias against other organizations  which apparently had failed to gain the Board's good-  will for the simple réason that they had not tollowed  the policy of the organizations to which I have just  referred, These organizations; which met with no  understariding frôm the Executive Board, included  such bodiés as the Intérnational Broadtasting Organiza-  tion, the World Federation of Democratic Youth, the  International Union of Students, etc, a
18,13 -: Our delegation was of opinion that, after the  genéral discussion, the Administrativé Commission  had every possibility of remedying the Executive  Board's errors:
18,14 The Commission ‘should have recorisideréd  independently and impartially the Exécutive Board's -  proposals, carefully studied the voluminous do¢umen-  tation placed at its disposal, taken Into acéount the  experience alréady acquired in regard to Unesco's  relations with the organizations concerned, and drawn  accurate and just conclusions corresponding to the  différent points of vléw expressed during the discus-  sion of the question, It did not do so. ‘
18.15 This strange procedure - imposed by a not  very democratic majority, which, it seems, “feared  nothing so much as the possibility of being persuaded ‘   xxiIv PLENARY MEETINGS  of the rightness and usefulness of admitting the  organizations concerned to consultative arrange-  ments - reduced the disçussion of this question toa  mère formality. of no importance, and prevented a  detailed, :frank and honest debate.
18,16 :. Such a discussion could by no means create  the serene atmosphere, 80 necessary to our work, or  lead to recommendations reflecting a spiri:of mutusl  respect and understanding as well as the desire to  assist Unesco in evéry way by reconciling opinions  which often differ on the solution of certain problems,  such aa that of international non-governmental  organizations,.,  .:
18,17 Our delegation deeply regrets that the  Administrative Commission was unable to perform  this part of its task in a satisfactory and equitable  manner, ;- -
18,18 . A group of delegations Virtually transformed  this working method into a discriminative procedure;  the consequences will be negative, not for the demo-  cratic international organisations whose applications  were rejected, but for Unesco, which will be deprived  of these organizations! help, influence, competence  and human and material resources,
18,19 - It is obvious that Unesco cannot remain  indefinitely separated by a wall of mistrust, pre-  judices and political considerations from large sec-  tions of the peoples, among which the National Com-  missions will be unable to carry out activities for  the implementation of our programme without the  co-operation of the organizations concerned.
18,20 The loglc inherent in the development of our  Organization demands, and will impose, the changes  that are necessary for us to arrive at an adequate  solution of this problem, Moreover, the organiza-  tions concerned are intelligent enough to take a stand  which is quite different from the narrow-minded  attitude adopted towards them by certain delegations,  They will undoubtedly be guided, not by resentment  provoked by the incomprehensible attitude of certain  delegations, - but by Unesco's noble aims,
18.21 If cur delegation has endursed the proposals  for the admission of a number of democratic inter-  national organizations to consultative arrangements,  it is not because these organizations need such a ;  status in order to exist or develop; : the prestige  they enjoy among millions of members is convincing  proof of this;- it is because we consider that closer  relations between these organizations and Unesco  would assist the latter's activities and help to  strengthen its universality...: ,
18. 22. I should like to emphasize that the informa-  tion which the Secretariat's representatives supplied  to us_- during the: Commission's discussions - with  regard to these organizations and their activities .  confirmed our opinion that these activities are, and  can be; of great importance to Unesco,
18,23. Despite all the evidence, however, and des-  pite the urgent reasons in favour of the admission  of these organizaticus to consultative arrangements,  the delegations which always oppose it, and for  reasons, quite unrelated to culture and science,  succeeded in having these organizations! applications  rejected, :
18,24 . All these delegations argued that Unesco,  in its:relatioris with international non-governmental  organizations, should follow the policy adopted in
306     this matter by the United Nations and the Economic  and Social Council, .
18,25 - -In'our opinion, this arbitrary statement is  completely unfounded and deserves no attention  whatever; We should like to recall, -however, that  this argument was put forward only. in connexion with  democratic non-governmental organizations and was  not given the same weight in the case of organizations  of a conservative or even less recommendable nature,  Further, even a cursory study of the list of non -  governmental organizations already admitted tô con-  sultative arrangements clearly shows that the over-  whelming majority of them have not been granted  similar status by the United Nations.
18,26 - ‘To crown all, the majority prevented the  views of the delegations which expressed the contrary  opinion from being set out in the Administrative Com-  mission's report. . .
18,27 _ As you may judge for yourselves, this pro-  cedure is anything but democratic; and it led several  delegations to make protests, which were likewise  excluded from the report.
18,28 Mr, President, I deoply regret having had to  utter such bitter but frank words, . At the coficlusion  of our work, I should have preferred to use the oppor-  tunity you have offered me in order to express my  whole -hearted satisfaction with the results of the  Administrative Commission's lengthy proceedings.
18,29 For the reasons I have just mentioned, this  was not possible, and [ am obliged to state that our  delegation cannot approve the Administrative Com-  mission's report without expressing reservations  concerning Chapter F, paragraphs 120-124 and
19, The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the delegate of the United States of  America, I
20,1 Mr,  RABB (United States of America): ‘  Mr. President, the delegation of the United States  supports the recommendation of the Administrative  Commission, that we reject the applications for con-  sultative arrangements froin the International Broad-  _ casting Organization,‘ the International Organization  of Journalists; the International Union of Students,  the World Federation of Democratic Youth, the World  Federation of Scientific Workers and the International  Association of Democratic Lawyers, -I disagree with  the view of the delegate of Bulgaria that the majority  "vate in the Administrative Commission was "an  undemocratic majority's . It is difficult for me to  understand this; à majority vote is a basic principle  of démocratie procedure, | .
20.% -The Executive Board recommended to the  General Conference that these six applications be re-  jected, the External Relations Commission of the  E#ecutive Board recommended that these six applica-  tions be rejected, - The recommendations of the  Administrative Commission should be adoptéd by .-  this General Confcrence,’ and the applications of these  six organizations rejected because they are political  and propaganda organizations, The record clearly  indicates the nature of these organizations; they  attack the decisions of the United Nations and seek  to undermine the objectives of both thé United Nations  and Unesco, They do not serve the purpose of  ‘   PLENARY  bringing together all peoples in mutual regard and  respect.
20.3 Some of these organizations were once granted  consultative arrangements with the United Nations and  with Unesco, but these ‘arrangements have been tor-  minated because of the abuse on the part of these :  organizations of thé privileges extended to them. Let  us examine the relationship of each of these organiza-  tions with the United Nations arid with Unesco; The  International Broadcasting Organization'is a non- .  governmental organization, but is, in fact, an inter-  governmental organization and, accordingly, does not  qualify; ‘ The consultative status of the International  Organization of Journalists with the United Nations  was terminated in the yedi 1950, Atà consultative status  with Unesco was terminated in 1852, and its application  tor reinstatement with the United Nations was rejected  in 1957, The application of the International Union of  Students for consultative status with the United Nations  vas rejected by thé United Nations Economic and :  Social Council in 1950, and its consultative status with  Unesco was terminated in 1952, Ard to proceed, the  consultative status of the World Federation of Demo-  cratic Youth with Unesco was terminated in 1952, and  its category’ (b) consultative status with the United  Nations was terminated in 1950; its application for  reinstatement to category (b) consultative status with  the United Nations was rejected in 1951, in 1953, in
1954, and again in 1957: The consultative status of  the World Federation of Scientific.Workers with Unesco  was terminated in'1950;: its application for consulta-  tive status with the United Nations was rejected by the  United Nations Economic and Social Council in 1948,  and again in 1950, The consultative status of the  Intérnational Association of Democratic Lawyers with  ‘the United Nations was terminated {n 1950, and its appli-  cationfor reinstatement wis rejected in the year 1957,
20,4 The policies and the activitiés of these organiza-  tions during the past few years do not reflect any sub-  . stantial change, and the original reasons for the ter-  mination of their consultative status with the United  Nations and Unesco remain valid, If these organiza-  tions were once again gran{ed (hat status they would  exploit their relationship with, Unesco for political  and propaganda purposes,’ These organizations do not  meet the requirements of paragraphs 13 and 14 of the  Unesco Diréctives adopted at the General Conference  in 1956, which providé that à non-govérnmentalorga-  nization, to be’ eligible’ for consultative ‘arrangements  with Unesco, shall "have aims and purposes ii con-  formity with the general principles embodied tn the  , Constitution of Unesco’, Ii 18 apparent that these  organizations opétate ‘within’ a narrow ‘compass that  would ‘destroy the universality’ of appéal'arid thé basts  of amity that are inherent in hie: ‘alms and aspirations  of Unesco. The spread of knowledge, ‘not political  propagarida, is.the’ Keynote! of Unescd.” RE
20.5 For ail these reasons, ‘it seems ‘te’ the délega-  tign of the United’ States’ that these six organizations |  are not eligible for consultative arrangements with  Unesco, and their applications should accordingly be  rejected by the General Conference. My delegation  will therefore vote for the recommendations of the  Administrative Commission,
21, The PRESIDENT: .
1 now call ypon the delegate of the, Union of Soviet .  Socialist: ‘Republica, iy
22,1. Mr, ZHUKOY. (Union : ot Soylet Socialist Repub-  lcs). (Translation from the Russian):  Mr. President, dalogatessl shall not dwell upon’  the characteristics of the organizations under dig- .  cussion - particularly the six democratic international  non-governmental organizafions ‘referred to by the  preceding speakers - for in this respect I completely  agree with what was said by the representatives of  Bulgaria and Yugoslavia, . -
22,2 I think we all fully sppréciae the Tportance  of the work dope by ‘International non-governmental  organizations with a view to the implementation of  Unesco's programme and the, fulfilment of the rioble  tasks prescribed by its Constitution. It must be.  emphasized, however, that no provision in the Con-  stitution or in any other Unesco doçument ‘enjoins that  Unesco's activities must be carrled out only through  the channel of non- governmental organizations whose  work meets with the approval of certain delegations or  à large group of delegations. I consider that sucha way  of approachingthe question would be completely wrong.
22,3 If Unesco is to be a universal organization, in  which different points of view can be expressed - and  itis only in these circunistances that it can accomplish  fruitful work - Unesco must co-operate with different  types of international organizations, Unfortunately, we  are obliged to point out that this is now the, second  session of the General Conference at which we have  had to draw attention to this matter, 2: ie, the fact that  certain delegations do not, under any circumstances,  wish to permit co- operation with internatfonal organiza-  tions which do not ‘profess the same faithas themselves.
22,4 The United States representative stated that  his delegation approyed the Adminitrative Commis -  sion's proposal that (he six {nternationa organizations  concerned should not be admitted to consultative  arrangements with Unesco, Unfortunately, fam,’  bound to remark that none of the arguing adguced is  objective, and that the method by which the United  States representative. endeavoured to convince us is  by no means new, It is an old, threadbare method  which consists in sticking a "political propaganda’  label on all projects and organizations that are not to  the liking of the United States delegation, We are told  that these organizations engage in portent io
22,5 Unfortunately, pu whether frog: pr ee  adopted by Unesco for | ithe (cons{derati on of th = ques-  tion can be called objective, ~The Bulgarfan répresen-  tative has already described in’ sufficient ‘detail how  this question was examined by the Executive Board  and the Administrative Commission, -Thià is all  further. proof ot the fact that the consider it, not  objectively or in the interests of the Organization, |  but in the egoistic, and political interesis of cerlain’  countries, Democracy does not mean that the majority  should gag the’ minority, I do not consider it démo-  cratic to refuse even to include the minority point of  view in the Commission's report to the plenary meet -  ing; I feel it is very far from democratic. It seems  to me that certain of the delegations here are playing   XX1V  at hide-and-seek,’ ‘as it were: ‘In the organs of the  United Nations, ‘they. vote against thé grañting of con-  sultative status to these organizations, and then they  come hore and bay that the United Natlons refused to  grant such copsultative status, "Thus, inthe United .  Nations, these very ‘delegatioiis, including thé United  States delegation présent here, ensured the rejection  of these organizations! applicaitons’ “for consultative’  status; but, here, they tell us that the United Nations  refused consultative stafus to the organizations con-  cerned, I consider it iseless to play hide-and-seek  here; the situation is perfectly clear to us all,
22,6 : I dd’hot'ihtük that all this justifies a refusal  to ailow international organizations to assist Unesco  in the perfôrimance of its tasks, if they are able and  willing to do so. Mr; President,’ 1 feel that Unesco  should now abandon this game of hide-and-seek, take  a step forward and admit these organizations to con-  sultative arrangements; this would be in the interests  both of international co-operation - genuine interna-  tional co-operation, if that is what is really wanted -  and of the Organization itself, The sooner our Orga-  nization settles this question, the better,  The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the delegate of Czechoslovakia,
24,1 ‘’Mr, HOFFMEISTER (Czechoslovakia) (Trans-  lation from the French):  Mr. President, ladiés and gentlemen, 1 tail t o  understand you: you oftén émphasize that you Lre  representatives of Member States, or rather o! the  governments of Member States, and that you have  received more of less strict directives frorà your res-  pective governments,
24,2 ‘Unless iam mistaken, goverriments are poit-  tical institutions, Do” you éonsider it logical on the  part of political’ représentatives to refusé the bendfit  of consultative status to certain organizaflohs, sifaply  on the pretext that they too are political organizations,  although that is not {rue and although their statutes  do not assign them political objectives? Their statutes,  on the contrary, correspond almost word for word  to the ideas expressed in our Organization's  Constitution,
24,2 ' The Uriited States delegate Stated à moment  ago thai these non- governmental’ organizations were  politi tal and propaganda organizations; but I note that  the word which: is contairied in thé “statutes of ron-  governmental organizations changes its’ meaning as  soon as {t is’ uttered by the United Statés delegate.  Does the Unesco Constitition entitle us to make such  a discrimination?’ 1 doubt it, and 1 regret that our  Organization has decided to exclude from our debates  young and active intefnational 1 non- governmental’  bodies, not even ‘allowing them to sénd observers,  and refusing’ to discuss with them ‘problems with which  they are quite familiar, This decision is all the  more regrettable as Ît was takeu in Paris, in the very  centre of Cartesian rationalism, and probably in the  ‘name of that freedom’ to have and fo express one's  own opinion, which the United States delegate recalled  to us’ he other day by quoting, so charmingly,  Voltaire,
24,4 Further, you have approved the admission of  organizätions protecting dogs, cats and other animals,  and organizations of police officers interested in
308  PLENARY MEETINGS.  singing and painting; but you have decided not to  admit world youth organizations and students! orga-  nizations which desire to co-operate with Unesco and  which represent dn imposing number of young people  as well as a sourcé of dynamic energy that is'of  fundamental importance for the future, for the pre-  servation of the world's eternal youth and for the  progress of mankind,
24,5: -Ladles and gentlemen, we are now concerned  not only with the fact that our Organization has re-  fused to recognize present-day realities - which is  not very estimable - but also with your personal  responsibility towards yourselyes, towards your  youth (perhaps your past youth) and towards your  children - although I admit that the latter do not  always agreo with their parents, That is perhaps the  only reason - not a.very cogent one - for the attitude  of the majority, but it was not even adduced,
24,6 - I wonder whether you realize that, by refusing  to meet the legitimate requests of young people,  students, trade unions, journalists etc,, you are  repudiating the finest period of your human activities;  you are refusing to allow young people to live with  you, alongside of you; you are disavowing your own  youth, the spirit of opposition you showed when you  were in your twentles, your. first loves, your first  political successes, the wonder ot your first philo-  sophical studies, your discovery of achievements in  the fields of art and thought; and yet several of you  have reached the age when we think of our university  days with a certain melancholy or even with a  sorrowful smile, oe
24,7 Allow me, nevertheless, to’ express the hope  that the day is not so far distant when goodwill and  reciprocal understanding will prevail in our discus-  sions. Today, when words, promises, prices and  personalities are so unstable, we all have increasing  need of clarity, logic and simple common sense.
25, The PRESIDENT: ‘  I call upon the delegate of Danmurk,
26,1 Mr, NIELSEN | (Denmark):  Mr. President, we have heard expressions of  views from à number of cuuntries. who especially  support these six grganizations on which we are con-  centrating our attention, I particularly, refer to the  intervention of the delegate of the Unlon of Soviet  Socialist Republics, Mr, Zhukov, whorñ we all res-  pect for his sensé of loyalty and for the ‘measured  and dispasstonate manner in which fie gave his views.  I shall try to do likewise,
26,2 First of all, ‘the Executive Board, has been  attacked on the ground that ft'did not wish lo répeat  before the Administrailve Commission t the reasons  why the recommendafion y was made as it was, Since  the Chairman of the Executive Board is not here, 1  fevl obliged to tell you that there has, ,ot course,  been a division of opinion even in the Executive  Boaïd; it is quite natural that it should be so; And  the réasons which the majority adopted a s thelr  . views are given in the report. which the External  Relations Commission of the Executive Board gave  to the Bdard, and which the Board has passed on to  you for your consideration. This is my first polnt,  and I take !t that the action of the Executive Board  in this connexion has been correct,   PLENARY MEETINGS
26,3 : Now for the question itself, . It has been said  that we are rejecting these organizations’ on the.  grounds that they are favoured by governments ot  another political view, : Fellow delegates, I take the  viéw that we are here dealing with non-governmental  organizations, 1 refer especially to the intervention  of the rapresentative of Czechoslovakia, and it is  not quite clear to me whether these organizations  can, in all cases; be characterized as non- :  govérnmental érganizations, One of the chief molives  for the point of view takén by the Executive Board  is the wish to avoid a: proliferation of those organiza-  tions for which consultative arrangéments are granted  on the grounds of political party colour, and in that  respect I think it'cannot bé ‘denied that this is one of  the characteristics of those organizations, : Let me  call your attention to the faet that they are not the  only ones to which this point applies, “If you look  through the lists of organizations which have riôt been  recommended for consultative ‘arrangements, you find  such organizations as, for iristärce, the International  Council of Social Democratic Woinen, or the United  Union of Social Democratic Teadhers, I think that  no one would imply that the goals aiid the activities:  of these organizations are not in conformity with the  aims and purposes of Unenco, but the reasons why  these organizations were not reéommended for con-  sultative arrangements are exactly the same as those  which apply to the six organizations in question:  mainly, to repeät it once more, the wish to avoid a  division, according to political party colour, of the  organizations with which Unesco collaborates under  consultative arrangeménts, And il is undoubtedly  true that this applies to the six organizations in ques-  tion; I know it from the fact that there have been  groups in othet éountries who individually adhered  to these organizations, but who found by experience  that there was in these organizatiohs room for only  one political party view; © This, I think, is the deeper  reason for the fact that thèse organizations have not  been considered to satisfy the requirements of the  Directives given for the question of admission to  consultative’ arrangements, A
26,4 Iam fully aware that those who tavour the  admissiori of these organizations may say that this ‘  or that organization has branches in countries where  the political system is a different 6né; #ind that this  shows that they are international in’ ‘character To  this I would reply (this ‘argumeiit’has not béen made,  but I would like to prévènt it from béing made); it is  quite natural in those colintries where information :  of political opinion is frée; that thére are groups  who sympathize with the politiedl views and political  aspirations of such organizations as these, and there-  tore it is quite natural that there should be groups  who are free to affillate thémdelvés with them if -  they so wish, ‘This‘Is the main point, and I would  wish that those who attack Unesco on this score, as  being politically dominated ‘by views of a certain  charactef, might try to understand the deeper mean-  ing behind this position, which I think i$ deferidable,  It may be, in the course of development, that the  character of these organizations will show that they  are ‘non-governmental, ‘that they are not directed by  governmental political views, that they aré open to  opinions other than the ones on which they, I think  admittedly, are conducted, If that occurs one day,
309  XXIV  it might well be thal we should yield to the appeals ‘  made to us to include them among the lat of osganiza-  tions to which Unesco grants consultative arrangements,
27. . The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the delegate of the United Kingdom, sir  Edward Boyle.  sir Edward BOYLE (unités Kingdom); : yy  Mr, President, as] understand the position, {a  draft resolution No, 29, the wholé question of Unesco's  relationships with ‘international non-governmental  organizations is tô be submitted to the Executive  oard for further study in the light of the reroarks  ph during the General Conference, Therefore 1  shall not, I'promise, “detain you for very many-  minutes, However, as the delegatés of the USSR and  out friends continue to press the claims of a number  of international organizations which have consistently  been véjectéd both by the Executive Board and the  General Conference, 1 am grateful for this oppor-  tunity of explaining that the support of the Board by  the United Kingdom delegation is not, I hope, based  on any irrational prejudice, ;
28.2 There are à'nümber of Feasons why thé United  Kingdom‘ delegation is opposed to the award of con-  sultative status to these organizations, The first is  that we believe that these organizations are réally  misnamed, because whatever their titles may be, the  fact quite clédrly remains that: théir main purpose is  to promoté Marxist=Lépinist’ ‘tdeology, * “When 1 say,  to promote Marxist- Lenthist ideology, 1 ‘do ñot mean  to use a term’ of abuse;" we in the United Kingdom are  by no méans: bises to free discussion ot. Marxist:
28,1  have à ely € Communist newspaper; - “We ‘have ‘one or  two somewhat’ intellectual and interesting Communist  quarterifes, ‘and we have äls in Britain oné or two  thinkers who have attacked Marxism Very ably, from  a distinctly sophisticated tntelectual viewpoint.” But  we do think that there are veal objections to admitting  to consultätivé status a number df organizations that  are, quite frankly, misnamed; I would serloüsly put  the suggestion that-it might be worth While for all -  these organizations to federate into sémething that  might be called thé Intérnational Couricil for thé Pro-  motion of Mérxist*Léninist tdeology, ‘ ahd I think, in  that-case, the United Kingdon) might be ready to take  a rather mote favourablé view of théir activities,
28,3 The second point I wish to maké is this: these  organizations claim that Unéséo ‘should ‘admit them  because, if they aré kept oit; Unesco is 'falsé its  mission, which is to promote thie free flow of infor-  mation, But after all, these organizations themselves,  by their very raturé as vehiéles for the propagation  of Marxlst-Leninist ideology, ‘afni at’ suppressing any.  social doctrines opposed to that ideology. Their point  is not so much to extend information as, so far as  they possibly can, to aim ât‘vièfory, An intérnational  organization dedicated to the preservation of liberty  cannot surely admit those who are opposed | to the  liberty of expression, - I listened with very great  interest to the statement of the delegate of the USSR  that the majority have no right tô suppréss the  minority. I was very pleased to hear what he seid,   XXIV PLENARY  but I could not help feeling that possibly one or two  of his remarks nay have made Lenin turn slightly  in his mausoleum, «Lore 1050 «
28,4 Thirdly, 1 would suggest that the claim of  these organizations to universality Is really un-  - acceptable because, , for ani international non-  governmental organization to be universal.in the.  Unesco meaning of the word,” it is not merely neces-  sary to have members all over the world,; Members  of a non-goyerpmental organization, if they are truly  to bè a universal organization; should be free to  follow where any argument leads, ‘and should not be  vestrained by the restrictions of any political . .  ideology, - We have international non-governmental  organizations dedicatéd to the problems, for  example, of education, natural sciences, social  sciences and cultural activities, All these organiza-  tions must be able to pursue their objectives without  - being told that only the Marxist-Leninist view of -  these subjects is acceptable; I must say, when I,  see these bodies described as international bodies,  I am somètimés reminded --if the delegate of the  United States will forgive me drawing. this analogy -  of the famous remark of Mr. Huey Long,. in  Louisiana, when he said; "Its the easiest thing in  the world to create a Fascist party, all you have to  do is to call {i an anti-Fascist party", I sometimes  feel this when l'see these organizations referred to  as international organizations. LA ee +0
28,5, : And finally, if we are told that the non- ; . :  admission of thèse non-governmental organizations  will create a bad impression, let us by all means  agree that a full and fair account of the reasons for  their, rejection should bé given to all thefr members,  It would help rather than hinder mutual understand-  ing and peaceful coexistence if the real reasons for  Unesco's decision were calmly and dispassionately.  efreulated for all tp réad who are {iterésted., Unless  this is done, We shall:not make it plain what is.  indeed the truth, that these non-governmental orga-  nizations to which I have referred are not allowed  to follow where the argument leads, are not able to  enjoy the-free flow of information, are not truly  able to serve Unesco, and are therefore not quali-  fied to be given consullativé status by Unesco,
28.6 Mr, President, for the reasons which I have  tried to explain as dispassioriätely as I can, we of  the United Kingdom delegation support what was  said by the representative of the United States and  the representative of Denmark, and also the recom-  mendations of the Administrative Commission.
29, The PRESIDENT: =... =~ Ce  Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have had an ex-  cellent explanation of the subject from a number. of  distinguished speakers, May I express the hope that  this will be the end of this question, because we have  a good deal of work still to do. I call upon the dele-  gate of Poland,  . 830,1 Mys. KAMINSKA (Poland) (Translation from  the Frenéh); ., . : . i...  Mr: President, 1 should lke to explain why the,  Polish delegation will ‘vote against draft resolution  No.30, The United Kingdom delegate will excuse  me if I continue to dwell on the matter, I should  also like to inform him that I shall not under any  MEETINGS
310  ciroumstances request consultative status for any  Communist party and that, in my opinion, the remarks  he has thought fit to make do not seem completely  inspired by the "Unesco" spirit, . - 2
30,2 Thus, if we vote against draft resolution No,
30, it is because wé consider that the list contained  in this document represents a restrictive choice in  no way based on the ‘requirements which ‘must be met  by non-governmental organizations requesting admis-  sion to consultative arrangements, - We should have  been in favour of such admission if the list had con-  tained all truly representative international organiza-  tions whose objects conform to those of Unesco, and  if the list had not been limited for reasons completely  contrary to the nature of our.Organization, : - |
30,3 I do not wish to revert here to the arguments  in favour of the universality of Unesco; :an Important  if not essential condition on which the development of  our Organization's influence depends, 1 shall confine  myself to a few other remarks which are also of a  logical nature; apd I shall not follow the example of  the United States delegate, who thought fit to adduce  arguments dating back to a period which all of us had  hoped was ended, One of the fundamental and purely  formal arguments put forward in the Executive Board  against the granting of consultative status to organiza-  tions such as the International Broadcasting Organiza-  tion, the International Organization of Journalists, the  World Federation of Democratic Youth and the Inter-  national Federation of Democratic Lawyers is thal.  these organizations are not sufficiently representative,  that it is not certain that their. aifins conform to those  of Unesco, and, lastly, that they are not sufficient!y  well known and it is essential to obtain further infor-  mation concerning them. .I can well understand that  the World Federation for the Protection of Animals  is much better known and that it is becoming even  unnecessary to mention it,; owing to the qbvious in-  fluence of its views with regard to the improvement  of man's moral and intellectual level and the removal  of the obstacles to international understanding that  still subsist in the minds of men, .The organizations  to which I refer, and to which consullative status has  been refused, are pevertheless known to Unesco, at  least to the Secretariat, seeing that it maintains -  unofficial working relations with most of them; and
1 do not think that the Secretariat, with its sense of  responsibility which we;all acknowledge, would en-  deavour to obtain the cooperation of groups without  influence or prestige. ; If this co-operation has already  existed for several years,. it is because it is proving  fruitful, Regarding the aims of these organizations,  I should like to add that they can be ascertained in  yet another manner:- the activities In Unesco of a,  certain number of Member States and National Com-  missions commit the national organizations of the  countries concerned, and these organizations are  affillated with ihe international non-governmental  organizations in question, - Le
30,4 .As far as l am aware, the countries which, in  the course of bilateral or multilateral activities, have  established contacts with these national organizations,  the Secretariat itself, or, for instance, the Unesco  Youth Institute at Gauting, have been quite satisfied  with this co-operation and these contacts, having  noted that the activities of these organizations tend  to give effect to the resolutions of Unesco, The   PLENARY  argument that the national organizations’ affiliated with  these non-governmental bt gantzations have other alms  is, in my opinion, unjustifiéd;. for, on becoming à  member of a ion-goveriimental organization, ‘a i  national organization undertakes in principle. o act;  on the national level, ‘In conformity With the’ funga=  mental objects of that non- governmental organization,  We have repeatedly spoken here, or in the Programme  Commission,- of the need to affiliate, with thé non“ -  governmental organizations admitted to consultative  arrangements with Unesco, the greatest possible ,  number of national organizations pursuing the same  alms,
30.5 To sum up, Mr; ‘President, my delegation :  considers that the proposal éontained In draft resolu-  tion No, 30 is neither logical nor in the real’intérests  of our Organization; . above all, it is not conducive to  the success of Unesco's tasks - the accomplishment  of which demands universality, on the geographical  level as well as the ideological level, and the exclu-  sion of biased political considerations which,” when  they inspire cerlaln proposals, cannot fail to be detri-  mental to mutual understanding and International  co-operation, '
31,1 The PRESIDENT: " :  Thank you Mrs, Kaminska, ‘ I would now like té  take a vote on resolution No, 30, paragraph by para-  graph, if that is acceptable, We shall take a vote  first on paragraph! 1.  (The vote was taken by a'show of hands, )
31.2 - Paragraph 1 has beer adopted by 38 votes in  favour, 2 against, with 12 abstentions; - ;
31,3 Now we come to paragraph No, 2,  (The vote was taken by a'show of hands. )
31,4 Paragraph 2 has been adopted by 39 votes in  favour, 11 against, with 6 abstentions.
31,5  Paragraph3, : .  {The vole was taken by à show of hands, )
31,6 Paragraph 3 has been adopted by 39 votes in  favour, 1 against,‘ with 14 abstentions,
31.7 Paragraph 4,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
31,8 Paragraph 4 has been adopted by 44 votes in  favour, ‘one against, with 12 abstentions, -
31,9 Paragraph 5, -  (The vote was taken by a show of hands, )
31,10 Paragraph 5 has been adopted by 43 votes in  favour, none against, with 12 abstentions,
31.11 Paragraph 6, .:.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
31.12 Paragraph 6 has beén adopted by 47 votes in  favour, ‘none against, with 6 abstentions;
31,13 We must now vote on draft resolution No, 30  as a whole,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands, )-
31,14 ‘ Draft resolution No, 30 has been adopted by
41 votes in favour, noné against, with 15 abstentions,
31.15 I call upon the Chalrman of the Administra-  tive Commission,
32,1* Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French): [  The Commission then reviewed the formal agree-  ments concluded with certain international non-  governmental organizations, namely the tenassociations
311  MEETINGS XX1V  mentioned iñ'docüment 10 C/451 Interitaïloifal Council  of Scientifia Union; World Fedelation of United ‘  Nations Associations, International Council ét Museums,  “International Theatre Institute, Council for’ Interna  tional Organitalions of Medical Sclènées, International  Council for’ Philosophy and Humanistic Studies; Inter-  national Music Council,” Intérnational’ Association of  Urilversities; International Social Sclencé Couricil,  and International Association of Plastic Arts.
32.2 The Commission recommends the Conference  to renew until'31 December 1959 the formal agree-  ments concluded with these international non-  governmental organizations. ‘  The PRESIDENT:  Aré there any commeénts on paragraph | 125 of the  Report? Paragraph 125 is then adopted.
34,1 ‘Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  Frétich}: -  The Commission then reviewed the list of interna-  tional non-govérrimental organizations approved for  consultative arrangements,
34,2 Having considered document 10°C/41 and  Addéndümñ, thé’ Commission, in accordance with para-  graph 54'of the Directives; héard ‘statements from  the following international rion- -goverpimental organiza-  tions for which the Executive Board did not recommend  the maintenance of consultative’ arrdrigements: Inter-  national Association "International Congresses for  Modern Architecture”; International Institute of  Public Finance} International Federation of Senior  Police Officers,
34.3 After discussion,” the: Commission decided to  recommend to the General Conference to maintain  consultative arrangements With ali the ‘organizations  listed in document 10 C/41, except the following orga-  nizations: Asian Relations Organization; International  Federation of Senior Police Officérs,
34,4 The Commission therefore suggests that the  Conference follow its recommendations,  The PRESIDENT:  Any comments on paragraphs 126 and 127?  Adopted,
36,1 Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French): >  The Commission then cénsidered the quadrennial  review by the Exécutivé Board of the employment of  subventions grantéd to international nori-governmental  organizations tov the period 1954-1957. -
38,2 - The Commission considéred a draft résolution  submitted by the delegations of Ecuador, India,  Pakistan; the United Atab Républié And the United  States of America and approved amendments proposed  by the delegations of Bulgaria’and the United Kingdom.  The draft, thus amended, constitutes draft resolution  No. 31, which the Commission submits for your  approval,
37.1 The PRESIDENT;  Any comments on draft resolution No; 31? 1 shall  then put it to thé vote.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)   XX1y
37,2, Draft resolution Noe 31.18 adopted by. 52 votes  in favour,” none agalnat, jwith one abstention, .  - 37.3 - Before we. pass opi ta the nex Hem. on the  agenda, Aie my. very pleasant, duty to express appre-  ciation and sincere gratitude on behalf of us all to  Mr, Baugniet, “the Chalrman of the Administrative  Commission, for, the pat tact, ability and persever-  ance with which he has. carried out this important work  of the Administrative Commission; 1 know that at …  times it was taxing for jim to sit through those lengthy  discussions, but without his indefaligable energy And  his patience we should. not haye been able to accom-  plish all this ork’ in such a short Line, {Ve are all  indeed extremely gratétul to him for the excellent  service which He has rendered to Unesco, - .
37,4 . We are also very ‘gratefü] to thé thres Vice-  Chairmen, from Mexico Afgharilstan and Viet-Nam,  who very kiridly fellgve d the Chairman from time to  time and performed their work most ably, -.
37,5 Our sincere thanks are also due to the Rap-  porteur from Burma, I understand that he has already  left Paris, but we would like to convey to him our deep  appreciation of the work he has done for the Adminis-  trative Commission, .
37.6 1 would be falling in my duty if { did not, on  behalf of myself gnd my fallow delegates, pay tribule  to the Director- -General,: the Assistant Director- ….  General, and’ the Secretariat,: for thé excellent help and  co-operation which made our task possible and, in-  deed, easy, The Diréctor-Genera and the Assistant  Director-General invariably gave us sane and sober  advice throughout the discussions and délibérations,  I know that, at times, we fn the Administrative Com-  mission were inclined to take rather strict views of  certain malters, particularly those relating to  finances, - At'such times, and at.others when we wanted  to cut down the expenditure on documentation, or even  on services and posts, the Assistant Director-General  very ably put forward a point of view which ended all  controversy and led us to > accept the Secretariat's  point of view. - .
37.7 1 think we also owe a great debt of gratitude  to all those who unfailingly and most courteously  helped us with all the information and the documents  we required, I thank them again for this excellent  help and co-operation,  REPORT OF THE JOINT MEETING OF THE PROGRAMME AND  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSIONS
37.8 The General “Eonterence has now before it the  report of the joint meeting of the Programme and  Administrative Commissions held onli. ‘December to  consider the report. ‘of the Working Party on the fol-  lowing two, tems: 1) Extension of the Unesco Coupon  Scheme's opération tothé “exchange of cultural work-  ers in the flèld of mass communication media, and
(2) Preparation of thé Proposed Programme and  Budget for 1961- <1962,:. Before calling upon Mr.  Baugniet, who will present this report to you, I wish  to irform thé General Conference, with reference to  item 4 of this report, that a draft resolution, docu-  ment 10 C/76 Addendum, 1s submitted to it, covering  the preparation of the Proposed Programme and  Budget for 1961-1962 and the organization of the work  of the eleventh session of the General Conference.
312     PLENARY MEETINGS  . The, second part of the draft resolution contained in  this document is the Tesult of work and suggestions  presented by,the Bureau of the Programme Commis -  sign a and the Chatrmen and Repporteurs of the working  parties ‘of this Commission and submitted to the  Ganeral Committee. of this Conference at its meeting  on 2 December (document 10 C/78);. and the Canadian  delegation's suggestions submitted to the General  Committee on the same day, in document 10 C/DR/ 71,  After the meeting of the General Committee on 2  December, the delegations of France, the Netherlands,  Canada and Argentina reached an agreement on two  amendments to the draft resolution presented by the  Bureau of the Programme.Commission and the work-  ing parties, The second part of the resolution in  document 10 C/76 Addendum, therefore,. represents  a synthesis of the work and suggestions of several  delegations, of the Bureau of the Programme Com-  mission and the working parties, and of the General  Committee of the Conference, © ;'
37.9 1belleve that, by adopling the draft resolution  contained in document 10 C/76 Addendum, the General  Conference will give the Executive Board and the  Director-General some very useful directives for the  preparation of the Proposed Programme and Budget  for 1961-1962, and for the organization of the work  of the next session of the General Conference, I  propose that the General Conference should begin by  considering the first three questions discussed in the  report of the joint meeting of the Programme and  Administrative Commissions, I call upon Mr,  Baugnlet, Chairman of the Administrative Commis-  sion, to give his comments.
38.1 Mr, BAUGNIET- (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French};  Mr. President and colleagues, the joint meeting  of the Administrative and Programme Commissions  provided matter for a report which is contained in  document 10 C/76, The first question considered by  this joint meeting was the inclusion of the Gift  Coupon Scheme in the Coupon Fund's operations,  This question is dealt with in paragraph 4 and the  following paragraphs of the report now submitted to  you,
38,2 In introducing this item, the Assistant  Director-Genéral explained that the proposed inclu-  sion of the Gift Coupon Scheme in the Coupon Fund  was to strengthen the present budget provision for the  Gift Coupon programme, as given in paragraph 95  of the Mass Communication chapter of 10 C/5 Rev.,  and to ensure better co- -ordination between the two  operations, -
38.3 The representative of the Director-General  gave his assurance to the Working Party that this  inclusion would not affect the total amount of funds  to be invested by the Organization, since it .was the  established policy of Unesco to invest the maximum  amount compatible with the efficient running of its  current operations, Interests earned from these  investments were credited to Miscellarieous Income  for tinancing the budget of the Organization {e. g.  for 1959-1960, it had been estimated that a sum of  $150, 000 per annum might be made available from  this source),
38.4 The joint meeting asks you to note these two   PLENARY MEETINGS  _ observations; It does not propose that you should ”:  adopt the draft resolution in paragraph 6, for, at your  meeting the day before yesterday, you adopted resolu-  tion 6, 14,. dubmlited to you by the Programme Com-  mission and already containing the proposals jointly  made by the Programme Commission and the Admini-  strative Commission.  The PRESIDENT:  Are there any objections to paragraphs 4 and 5 of  document 10 C/76? Adopted,
40,1 Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French): . "nl iN  . The joint meeting ther dealt with the inclusion in  the Visitorat Service Furid of the éxpenditure for the  production of additional Information material, - .
40,2 The Working Party which had been constituted  expressed its agreement that an indréased production  of information materials for distribution to thé -. -  visitors to the new Unesco Headquarters would have a  far-reaching influence in promoting the understanding  of the aims and activities of the Organization, Judging  from the experience in the United Nations Headquarters  in New York dnd the Geneva Palais des Nations, it was  expected that there w %ild be-some’ 150, 000 to 200, 000  visitors during the fotihcomirg year, It would be  highly desirable to tale advantage of this opportunity  to spread knowledge about Unesco, .
40,3 It was made clear thal the expénées to be in-  curred under the Visitors' Service Fund for this pur-  pose would reinforce the budget provisions included  elsewhere under Unesco's Regular-Budget, and would  be used to provide additional information materials  particularly in différent language versions, Since the  Visitors" Service Fund was a self-liquidating opera-  tion; the expenditure for the production of such infor-  mation meterials would be incurred only after the  normal expenses of the Fund had been covered by the  income accumulated through the collection of visitors!  fees, . BP oo
40,4 The joint meeting also proposed that a new  paragraph be included in draft resolution 5, 14, but this  paragraph was included in resolution 5. 14 adopted by  the General Conference the day before yesterday; I  do not think that you wish to reconsider the vote already  taken, and I shall ask the General Conference to adopt  paragraphs 7 and 8 of the report we are now discussing.
41, The PRESIDENT:  Any comments on paragraphs 7 and 8 of document
10 C/ 76? Adopted,
42,1 Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French); . .  The joint meeting considered the extension of the  Unesco Coupon Scheme*s operations to the exchange of  cultural workers in the fleld of mass communication  media. vo - .
42,2 The Assistant Director-General recalled that  Unesco, in its programme, had dealt with this prob-  lem to a considerable extent and that the adoption of  the present proposal might have certain budgetary  implications, In introducing his proposal as embodied  In document 10 C/DR/ 10; paragraph, the representative
313  XXIV  ot Czechoslovakia stresséd its importance to his  country and to.countries in a similar situation facing  foreign exchaïige difficulties in developing the ex- -  change of cultural workers in the field of mass  communication media, o.oo ao oe
42,3 Thé Working Party, approved by thé joint  meeting, siresged the importance of this quéstion -  and considered it necessary to undertake a study of it,  However; in view.of the fact that the problem needed  to be deait with by Member States bilaterally end  regionally, and thal à study of this kind would fall  logically within the competénce of National Commis-  slons,: the representative of the United Kingdom pro-  posed that this study be entrusted to the National  Comraissions and that their findings be communicated  to the Director-General for report to the General  Conference, This proposal was fayourably considered  by the Joirt Working Party and, after discussion at  length of the wording of the draft resolution presented  by the Czechoslovak delegation, and the various  amendments advanced by several delegations, the  joint meeting proposed the adoption of the text set out  in paragraph 11 of the report under consideration,
42.4 It is this text which, on behalf of the joint  meeting, I recommend you to adopt,
43,1 The PRESIDENT: ;  “The resolution contained in paragraph 11 is now  put to the vote,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
43,2 Paragraph 11 has been unanimously adopted.
44, Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French):  Lastly, the joint meeting recommends you to in-  clude this resolution in Chapter 8 (Exchange of  Persons), instead of in Chapter 5 (Mass Communication)  of the revised version of the proposed programme and  budget.
45,1 The PRESIDENT:  Since there are no objections, paragraph 12 is  also adopted. ; , - NE
45,2 We now come to Part IV of document 10 C/76,  and before I call on Mr, Baugniet to present it to  you, | would remind you that there are two further  documents related to this point, namely 10 C/78  which will be presented by Mr. Beeby, and a draft  resolution, 10 C/76 Addendum, which I shall ask Mr.  Baugniet to comment upon.  Û
46,1 Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French}: = REE. -  The. joint meeting also discussed the question of  the preparation of the Proposed Programme and  Budget for 1961-1962 and stressed the importance of  the continuation of the system of consultations be-  tween the Director-General, the Executive Board, .  Member States, the United Nations and Specialized  Agencies, and international non-governmental orga-  nizations in the development of the programme and  budget of the Organization, as practised for 1959-
1960, The joint meeting was in general agreement  with the time -table proposed by the Director-  General in document 10 C/71,   XXIV PLENARY MEETINGS
46,2 "However, ‘the question was raised as to the  practicabilitÿ'of Véquesting Member Stales to submit  by 1 September” 1860 amendments to the’ proposed  programme and ‘budget having substantial blidgelary  implications, It was unanimously vécognized that this  date would give rise to serious diffiéultiès, ‘in view  of the summer vacation in some Member States, In  the course of its: deliberations, the joint ‘meeting  noted the three.suggestions which were made by  various delegations with a view t6 providing more  adequate time for Member States to prepare their pro-  posals ori the proposed programme’ and udgèti- .
46,3 Following {hése discussions, the joint’ meoting  agreed upon th "lime - table reproduced bn pags 5 of  document 10 C (GR This tine -table will have: to be  modified iri ylew ‘of the decision which you took yes-  terday and which amends Rule 78 of the Rules of Pro-  cedure by’ redicing Vo six weekä the deadline of nine  weeks thal had been ‘Suggested in the draft'ameridment  to the Rules of Procedure; Owing to this’ améndment  to the‘ draft resolution submitted to you, it: will be  necessary to ‘delete ‘from the document under discus-  sion the word "niné" = nine weeks before the opening  date of the General Conferénce - indicating the dead-  line for receipt of amendments to the proposed pro--  gramme and budget which have substantial budgetary  implications and for dispatch of the documents con-  taining the Director-General's final proposals, .As  you did nol approve the deadline of nine weeks, -1t is  necessary to replace it by the deadline of six weeks  which you haye maintained in the Rules of Procedure,
46,4 Subject to this modification, the joint meeting  recominends you to adopt this time-table, which is’  the subject of draft resolution I in document 10 C/76  Addendum:  "The Géneral Conference; - PL  Noting with salisfaction the fori’ ‘atid presentation  of the’ Proposed Progratame and’ Budget for 1959-
1960 (reviséd) (document 10 C/6 Revi), which should  be taken as a guide for the preparation of the Pro-  posed Programme and Budget for 1961-1962;  Confirming, for the execution of this task, the  existing procedure for consultation with the Member  States, .the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies,  and the: intérnationäl non- <goVernmental organizations;  Approves in prihéiple the timé-table for the various  stages inthe preparation’ of the proposed programme  and budget,’ as given in document 10 c/s; .  Requests the Executive Board and the Director-  General to study the possibility of allowing Member  States a more adequate time-limit for drawing up their  proposals regarding the programme and budget for
1961-1962; and  Furthermore requests the Executive Board and the  Director-General to draw up and present to the -  eleventh session of the General Conference recom-  mendations for further improvements in the methods  of preparing the programme and budget for the period
46,5 - It is this resolution which, on behalf of the two  Commissions (Administrative Coramission and Pro-  grammé Commission), I ask you to adopt,
41, “The PRESIDENT: -  I cäll upon Mr, Beeby, Chatrraan of the  Programme Cormmission, to present document
48,1 -Mr, BEEBY. ‘(New Zealand), Chairman of  the Programmé Commission;  "Mr, President and colleagues, in presenting to -  you this document 10 C/78; I should perhaps fell you  how it'éame Into beldg and what its’purpose is, The  Genéral Commitiée asked the Bureau of the Pro--:  gramme Commission and the Chalrmen and Rapporteurs  of the working partles if they would meet together to  review the procedures in operation this time, in the  light of their experience, ‘and to make proposals to  the Géneral Committee and to the Exécutive Board on  the work of the Programme Commission for the next  Conference. +
48,2 - This Comittee, this particular "Working  Party of thé workers", met and came to unanimity on  certain points, - On one thing we were quite unanimous,  indeed on several; but we were first of all unanimous  that the working parties themselves represent an _.  effective method of work for the Conference, in spite  of certain disadvantages, particularly fel by ‘smaller  delegations, - Wea félt too that the working parties  worked best when they were working within a definite  budget ceiling, and we decided to recommend, in so  far as our judgement counted, that a'dystem similar  to this should be considered for the eleventh session,  - We also considered that the working parties and the  Programme Commission should ha‘ré.rathér more  time, and we recommend that, if at’ all possible, the  Programme Commission should be able to start -  earlier at the next Conference: even if it were working  under only a very provisional büdgèt'ceilirig.
48,3 There were certaln'fecômimet.dations we had  to make on physical and other conditions; the working  parties seeined fated to mest in rooms that were too  small to hold them, or too big to be comfortable; : But  we wére most appreciative .ôf the assistance given'by  the Secrétariat in making thesé conditions as bearable  as they possibly’ tould, :if 1 might;: sir, - ‘be out ‘of order  for a moriient, 1 should like to say something that !  should have said in the Programme Commission, and  that you mentionéd a few moments dgo, about the‘.  services, in ‘general that wé received, Everyone 3  has been Impressed by the skilt of those ‘who plarined  the Conference, we are impressed by the incredible  skill of those who interpret our words, but we some-  times tend to forget the devôted work of what I might  call "the little péople of the Conference M 1f1 may  use that term without any hint’ of cordescension -  the people who sit up half the tight typing, writing  minutes, running mimeograph machines, arranging  that the papers shall appear on the table at the right  moment, and then vith infinite patience give us a  second set when we have lost the first, Never once’  was the Programme Commission held up because the  paper was not ready for it, and that in itself I think  is a tremendous tribute, And the fact that these  unobtrusive skills were so unobtrusive is perhaps a  measure of their success.
48,4 ” Thè final and major recommendation that this  particular Committee made was that, in the planning  of the next Conference, there should be left a sum’  unallocated to ‘specific programme Items, You will  find that referred to in detail in paragraphs 6 and 7  in this document 10 C/178. I would Ukè to say a word  on the purpose behind it, Some of the Chairmen and  Rapporteurs of the working parties felt that the pro-  gramme specialists, particularly in their working   “ PLENARY.  PENT SN  dation, . 21102 LS Se SY
48.5 On two or three points wit werè not unaninious,  and we did not attempt to come to a majority vote. in,  any case, because we felt we wer¢ not constituted in  any representative sense, We did not come.foa..  decision, ‘or even try {6 come to à decision, on the  size of the unallocated sum;. we Yrere unanimous that  the $94, 000 we had for priorities this year was not  adequate to give this freedom of niañoeuvre, that it  should be something more than a {oken amount, The  smallest amount mentioned was 1 per cent of the total  budget, which on this occasion would have been  $250, 000; the largest amount was 10 per cent, which  of course. is a very different matter,
48,8 Neither did we dome to à decision on the appli-  cation of Rule 78.2, requiring that draft résolutions  be presented six'weeks in advance, . If. you will refer  to paragraph 12 of this document (10'C/78), you will  see the two lines of thought within this group, - "We  decided, too, that we would recommeiid that a general  discussion on the programme be held after the Pro-  gramme Commission had ceased Îts work, ‘We did  not comment on the possibility of holding one before-  hand, because there was some difference of opinion,
48,7 . Now, sir, the status of this particular report.  We are not asking oc, suggesting that the Conférence  adopt it or discuss it in'detall, We would not wish tt  to be given any more weight than it merits, It repre-  sents only the ideas of à few men and women who have  held some position of responsibility, and have tiled  to make a rather complicated system work on this ‘  occasion, There are other and wider considerations  that must be weighed when the work for the next ses-  sion is belng decided, and we are aware that the  Executive Board knows that bétter than we do,
48.8 On the last page you will find a resolution in
315  MEETINGS XXI1V  paragraph 13, 'whigh simply suggesta, in effect, that  the Genetal Conférence refer to the Director-General  and the Executive Board the series of suggestions .  made in this document for thelr serious conslderation  when planning the next programme. However, this  particular resolution has now been subsumed under a  wider resolution t  be found in dociiment 10,C/78,  and which will be presented to you by Mr, Seydoux, .  of the delegation of France. My sole purpose, Mr.  President, in presenting to you the report of our  Working Party, is to make the Conference aware, in  very, general terms, of the proposals that it has récom-  mended be sent on to the Director-General and the  Executive Board for their consideration when planning  the eleventh session,  The PRESIDENT; | | ,Ç  I now invite one of the delegations sponsoring the  resolution containéd in document 10 C/76 Add, to take  the floor, I call upon Mr, Seydoux, of France,
50,1 _.Mr, SEYDOUX (France) (Translation from the  French): ç We - Hahn . : . I PU SA  Mr, President, delegates, the proposal whichis  submitted to you and which is sét out inthe second  half of document 10 C/76 Addendum, is presented by  the French, Canadian, Argentine and Polish delega-  tions, owing to, their common préocciipations, which  seem to reflect the feelings of a considerable number  of delegales lo the present Conference, 'I particularly  draw.your attention (à sub-parägraphs (ii) and (lit) on  page 2 of the Addendum to document 10 C/76. What  Prag acl  tion's programme, lé, in our view, the implementa-  tion of the current programme and the main lines of  the future proposed programme. This statement  would be followed by an exchange of views in the  course of which genétal directives for the considera-  tion of the programme by, working parties would be  established, special reference being made to the  Director-General's statement. =
50,2 Mr, President, it Is partléularly during this  exchange of views that it would be possible té discuss  very freely the question of the unallocated sum to  which Mr, Beeby referred a moment ago, the size  of that sum and {ts distribution among the different  working parties, This exchange of views would  obviously have to be sufficiently brief to enable the  working parties to meet as early as possible and,- of  course, to, hold Aumerous meetings. ‘I dm aware that  certain délegations ‘expressed the fear that this ex:  change of ylews might be prolonged and produce few  resulls, but I feel that, in this ‘matter, the authority  of the. Chairman - and in this respect 1 should like to  pay à tribute to thé authority shown by Mr. Beeby  and Mr. Baugniet - is just as important a factor as  the discipline willingly accepted by the delegates.  We feel - fn any case, this is the opifi{on of the French  delegation - that oñé or perhaps two days! discussion  would be quite sufficient,  _-
50,3 Secondly, you will note that sub-paragraph  (iii) provides that, at the conclusion of the proceedings   xXIV PLENARY MEETINGS  of the Programme Commission, there would be à  general diséudsion of the fulure trénd of the Organiza-  tion's ‘Activities,’ I think, MF, President, that this  proposal waa presented’in the form of &n‘amendment  by the Netherlahds dele ation, Wè entirely approve  it, for, In our dpinion, {ts quite normal that there  should also be à general discussion al thé end of the  Conference, hen we are more fain{liar with the  documents and hüriañ and working ¢ontacts have been  established betwééh the different délegations, You  will note tha} the discussion would relate to the future  trend of activities; An our opinion, If should bé not  only a discussion of thé'1962 programme, but à very  careful study of thé work to be accomplished during  the coming years, taking into account the experience  acquired during the current session, =". . …, ;
50,4 I should like to indicate very briefly,’ for it is  already rathér late, why we decided to present this  proposal {a conjuriction with Other delegations; -
50,5 Firstly, because, whenever there is a problem  certain feeling of frustration, which we have also  noted, _ Labi LL Le eo
50.9, . Thus, I am not at all sure that thesé delega-  Sa Date
316     ‘and riôt yet convinced that it 1s through International  institutions that it will aéhieve peace and security,
50,11  J.et us riot forget that Unesco is not only in  Unesco; it 'extends, {t must extend,’ throughout the  entire world, ‘embracing the National Commissions  and Intellectual circles = which demarids a clear ex-  pression of the guiding principles of oùr action,
50,12 "Our Organization answers a powerful although  still viguely and inadequately éxpressed aspiration  of all men of goodwill, for whom Unesco represents  not only a magnificent building in Paris and a very  efficient Secretariat, but also a vast ‘enterprise  which must inspire, aid and reassure all those who  wish to believe in peace and international co-operation,
50,13 It is in this spirit, ladies and gentlemen,  that the Friénch delegation asks you to vote for this  resolution;
51,1 The PRESIDENT: 0 et,  Thank yoû,‘ Mr,’ Seydoux, Before we' prôcéed  further, ladies and genflemen; ‘I want to Fring to your  attentioh a translation ei¥or. iri 10 C/76 Addendum,  In Part 11 of this draft résolution)! paragraph 2, begin-  ning "Invités the’ Executive Board'!; should bd re-  placed by fhe following paragraph! "Requests the  Executive Board and thé Directôr-Geïeral, in making  the recommendations’ for the organization of work of  the eleventh session of the Geileral Conference, to  take into considératign suggestions made by the’  Bureäl of the Programmé Cormimiséion and the Chair-  man ard Rapportédrs’of the working parties (cf.  document 10 C/78) and the various delegations, in  partisulat", Thé résolutioil‘then continiiés as in  documiént 10 C/76 Add," with potnts'(1), (il), (114)  and’(iv), The principal effect of this change is to  replace the word "proposals" by the word "sugges-  tions", as in the text approved by Mr, Beeby's group.
52,3 “Some of the ideas which'hé puis before us  have been discusséd ori other Gecasions aiid some-  times fairly contradiétory opinions hive béen ex-  pressed on them, “I remember that, at’the Mexico  Conférence, we had working parties ‘which carried  out their tasks éxtremély Well; but'subsequently  they were abolished, to the great prejudice of the’  specialists, mary of whom cedged to attend ou ses-  sions because they no longer found at them this work-  ing method whi¢h'aléne enabled them to carry out their  tasks thoroughly and thus take a real intérest in them.
52.4 The reversion, this year, to the method of  working parties has proved very fruitful and I am   PLENARY MEETINGS  glad that the Executive Board and the Director-  General aré being encouraged to maintain this method  and improve it in accordance with the recommenda-  tion 1h question, ’
52,5 Iam particularly satisfied with two of the  ideas suggested to us by Mr, Roger Seydouxj one of  them concerns the preliminary discussion, :
52,6- One of the possible. risks and disadvantages of  working parties was the excessive splitting up of the  discussion of the programme by entrusting it to  educators, scientists and sociologists working inde -  pendently of one another, without any opportunity of  considering the programme as a whole,
52,7 The preliminary discussion eliminates this  disadvantage, and the specialists can then consider  in detail, in their respective fields, Unesco's parti-  cular tasks,  £2,8 ‘The other and, in my opinion, most original  and perhaps most fruitful idea contained in this pro-  posal is that the Conference itself should offer the  Director -General and tlie Executive Board suggestions  and recommendations with a view to assisting them  in their task of preparing the future programmes;  these suggestions and recommendations would consti-  tute more useful guidance than mere resolutions,  which are often too generally and somewhat vaguely  worded,
52,9 Moreover, in New Delhi, the Indian delegation,  in the course of a discussion on this question, : sug-  gested an exchange of views on particular’items of  future programmes, but we did not receive any recom-  mendation as precise and formal as the one now pre-  sented to us, In approving it, the General Conferénce  would, in my opinion, also open up for itself a wider  field ôf intervention’ within the framework. of our -  activities, ‘I often hear many delegates say that the  General Conference of Unesco unduly restricts its  participation in thé préparation of the programme and  budget. The Executivé Board plays so large a part  in the preparation of this document which serves us as  a guide that delegates have little - often too little -  occasion to suggest modifications to it, - -
52,10 ‘ The resolution now submitted to us fills in  many unfortunate gaps, opens up the prospect of  closer co-operation between the Executive Board and  the General Conference arid, within the framework of  the Conference, makes it possible to rally the specia-  lists to general views that are indispensable for the  success of our work, ’  The PRESIDENT:
1 call upon the delegate of the Netherlands,
54,1 Mr, de HOOG (Netherlands) (Translation from  the French):  Mr. President, colleagues, the Netherlands dele -  gation entirely agrees with the ideas underlyitj the  draft resolution in document 10 C/76 Addendum, It  fully approves the first part concerning the prepara-  tion of the programme and budget for 1961-1962, and  we noté with deép satisfaction that the old saying  “Good administration demands foresight! has been  brought back into honour, or is still in honour, in  Unesco - for, in 1958, we are already speaking in  this resolution of the budget for 1963-1964,
54.2 The Netherlands delegation also completely  agrees with the ideas inspiring the second part of
317  XXIV  this draft resolution, “The tirat idea concerns the  maintenance of the system of working parties and,’ in  this respect, we fully share the views set out in docu-  ment 10 C/78 presented to you by Mr, Beeby, We -  also agree with the idea inspiring sub-paragraph (ii)  of this part of the draft resolution, namely the discus-  sion of the main lines of the programme during the  General Confetrende, Such à discussion seems {o us  advisable and even indispensable;  It'did not take place  at the present séssion of thé General Conference," It.  has been rightly pointed out that it did not tak) place  in plenary meeting, although one of the items of the  agenda is entitled "General discussion”; it is riot pos-  sible to speak of a discussion; as there werd simply  statements by heads ‘of delegations followëd by a'more  or less - less, if anything - direct reply by, the  Director-General; - Neither did such'a génerhl discus-  sion také place in the Programme Commission for, as  Mr, Seydoux has just informedus, the Corémiission  - immediately split up into several working patlles in -  order to study the cctivities of the different departments,
54.3 - In principle, Mr; Président, the Working Party  on the Appraisal of Unesco's Programmes could have  openad a discussion on the subjéct, but, if I have  properly understood the report by the Rapporteur of  this Working Party, the latter's discussion was devoted  mainly to the techniques of appraisal and not to the  programme itself, Thus, we fully approve the ideas  expressed, -
54,4. Certain questions; Mr, President, nevertheless  arlse;” Sub-pärägraph (i1)(a) speaks of a- statement --  by thé Director-General, describing the main lines of  the Organization's programme", My first question’ is:  "Where will this statement be made?" 1 suppose, and  hope, that the authors of the draft résolution will reply  that this slatoment will be made at a plenary meeting  of the Geïieral Conference, ‘In my opinion, a'statement  by the Diréctor-General;- describing the main lines of  Unesco's programme presented to the General Con-  ferencé; is the most important speech of the General  Conference and should necessarily be made in Plenary  meeting, -
54,6 Mr; President the draft resolution ts not clear,  It doés not say that it is in plénary meeting that the  Director-General will make this statement, and I --  should like to reéall that the second part of the draft -  resolution is entitled "Organization of the Programme  Commission at the eleventh session of the General  Conference" (I feel it'would be better to say "Organiza-  tion of the work of the Programme Commission").  Considering that this is the titlé of the resolution, it  suggests that the Direclor-General's statement should  be made in the Programme Commission, and I do not  think this would be a good ideas:
54,6 -Regarding sub-paragraph (Hb). I Ustened very  carefully to what Mr, Seydoux has just said about it,  for the text, in its present form, ‘is not clear," The  text sayst "The Programme Commission would then  exéhange views for the sole purpose of establishing  general directives for the consideration of the pro-  posed programme by the working parties, . Mr,  President - and 1 ask my French friends to excuse me  it I do not clearly understand this sentence - I do not  think that this text corresponds exactly to what Mr,  Seydoux has just told us. It is his wish - our wish and  the wish of the Netherlands delegation - that, at the  General Conference, there should be a general   © OXXIV .  discussion on the main lines of the programme sub-…  mitted to it, . Bu the text presented to us here seems  to suggest a meeting of the Programme Commission,  in the course of which the working parties would be  instructed how they should consider. this programme,  and 1 feel that that would be much more in the nature  of a technical statement by the Chairman of the Pro-  gramme Commission, and perhaps by the Director-  General, than a discussion on the main lines of the.  programme, . If we read this text and compare it with  sub-paragraph (iif), : which says "by making provision,  at the conclusion of the proceedings of the Programme  Commission, for a'general discussion of the future  trend of the Organization's activities" - which is :  exactly what we want,: we shall, I think; note a con-  tradiction between sub-paragraph (44)(6) and sub- :  paragraph (iil), :: We have only to compare these two-  texts in order to see what I have just pointed out, If  sub-paragraph (il) really means that there should be  a general discussion on the main lines of. the pro--.  - gramme at the beginning of the Programme Commis-  ‘sion's meeting, J should like to emphasize that the  Netherlands delegation is aot in favour of such a dis-  cussion; .but we have liot yet formed a sufficiently  definite opinion on the. matter to be able to say now that  we shall certainly vote against this resolution or  abstain from voting, ‘: i
654.7 1 should like,. however, to emphasize the  reasons why we think that such a discussion is not  very useful at the beginning of the session of the  General Conference, Firstly, we feel that it risks  delaying the beginning of the working parties! activi-  ties, whereas in document.10 C/78 it is‘expressly  sald that these working parties, as well as the group  which discussed this question, would like to begin  their work as early as possible, |
54,8 We fear that, if they had to wait for this  general discussion, they would commence their work  too late: .  -
54,9 “Secondly, Mr, President, it has. been shown,  at other sessions of the General Conference where  this system was applied, that, at the beginning of a  General Conference; delegations are rot yet suf-  ficiently acclimatized, if I may use such an expres- .  sion, They come from afar, are not yet famillar with  the procedure and, most important of all, do not know  one another, - A discussion at this stage very often  leads to the reading out of papers prepared in advance,  which renders the debate more difficult instead of  facilitating it. Co :
54,10 ‘-We are already acquainted with this succes-  sion of official declarations which would then be made  in the Programme Commission, whose meetings .  would be no more than a repetition of the General".  Conference's plenary meetings held at'the same time,
54,11 Mr, President, +1 should like to make a tech-  nical remark on the question: in the second part of  this draft resolution it 1s said that the proposals made  by the Bureau of the Programme Commission should .  be taken inté account. . But, as Mr, Beeby informed  us a quarter of an hour ago,’ the-Bureau of the Prc-  gramme Commission recommended that this discus-  sion should take place at the end and not at the  beginning of the session. Thus, Mr. President, if it  is organized at the beginning, ! do not think it can be  rightly said that such a décision is based on the  report of the Bureau of the Programme Commission,  PLENARY"
318  MEETINGS  Tfeel there is an element of contradiction in all this,  but I do not think that the contradiction is insuperable,  and the French delegation would certainly have no  difficulty in vedrafiing the text 50 as to remove this  contradiction, .-:.
54,12 .. Mre- President, in view of my experience as  Rapporteur. of the Working Party on the Appraisal of  Unesco's Programmes, L wonder whether ft would not  be preferable - I am not making à formal proposal -  that this discussion, : which we should all like to have  dn the main lines. of the programme, ‘should take place,  as we recommended at the meeting of thé Bureau of.  the Programme Commission, at the end of the General  Conference and that it, also,- should be prepared by a  working party which would be set up at the beginalng |  of the session but which: would begin its, work, during :  the last fortnight of that session, I think that this pro-  cedure would offer several advantages; at the time of  the discussion, delegates would have become Acquainted  with one another - which would obviously facilitate the  discussion; t delegations would be much more familiar  with Unesco's programme, activities and environment -  which would also considerably facilitate the discussion;  and finally, if this general discussion took place at the  end of the session of the General Conference, it would  not risk going on forever. .
54,13 Thus, Mr, President, I suggest thai we. ‘study  the possibility of setting up a working party which  would begin its work during the last fortnight of the  session of the General Conference and would prepare  a report indicating in what direction the Organization's  activities should be orientated; the general discussion  of the Programme Commission would be based on this  report. -
54,14 Mr. ‘President, 1 had thought of requesting  that my proposal be included in the draft resolution -  submitted to us, I have not done so, for two reasons;  I could have asked the French delegation to accede to  my request, and it would certainly have agread;. orl  could have asked the same favour of the Polish delega-  tion, aincé it too is one of the authors of the resolution;  but I felt it was rather indiscreet to ask four or five  “ countries to do me a favour; . that seemed asking too  much, Moreover, 1 felt that my idea did not perhaps  correspond to the other ideas expressed in this draft  resolution, and that-it might clash with them,
54.15 Mr. President, 1 do not like clashes and that  is why I have decided not to request the inclusion of  this idea in the draft resolution, 1 would simply sug-  gest that this idea be included in the Records of the  Gen2ral Conference, as a small and not invaluable con-  tribution which the Executive Board and the Director-  General might find when they began to prepare the  next session of the General Conference,  The PRESIDENT:
1 call upon the delegate of Poland,
56,1. Mrs. KAMINSKA (Poland) (Translation from  the French) "€  Mr, President, 1 shall try to answer certain ques-  tions which have just been raised by Mr.- de Hoog.  concerning somé points that do not seem to bie ex-  pressed clearly enough in the draft resolution presented  by the Polish delegation and other delegations, If I do  not succeed, the other co-authors of the resolution  will doubtless do it better than I,   PLENARY
86, à - Fivstly, with'regard to the Director-General's  statement on the main lines of the Organization's pro-  gramme, it seemed to us'- at least to my delegation -  that this statément could be made in plenary meeting  at the opening phase of the General Conference's  work; ‘in plenary meetihg,- because this statement  would serve as a basis of discussion and work, ‘not’ -  only fôr thy Programme Cominisaion but for, e.g,  the Administrative Commission, Ce
56,3 Let us exaniine sub-paragraph (H)(b), where  it is said that "the Programme Commission would  then exchange views for the sole purpose of establish-  ing genéral directives", Lu eu < 25
56, 4 .‘ This sentence was worded in this way in order  to indicate tHat thé discussion envisaged would not bé  a general ov ‘vague one, ‘such as takes place at cértain  mèments duritig the Getiéral Conference; the Pro-  gramme Commission would have to confine itself.  strictly fo the proposed programme and budget pre-  sented to'the Genéral Conference; and to the Director-  General's statement concerhing thé‘current activities  and the activities envisaged for the riext two years.  Thus, the discussion would not aim at offering tech-  nical guidarice to'the' working parties,’ but would bear  on the ‘actual substance of the proposed programme  presented to the Conference, and the working parties  - would bé able to take it into account when considering  in detail particular aspects of the programme, -
56,6 The discussion which is proposed ir sub-  paragraph (i); to laké’place at the conclision of the  work of the General Conference, would be based on ‘  the results of the work done by the working parties  and the Programme Commission itself; ‘and, In the  light of these results andthe comments that might be  made on them, this discussion would provide sugges-  tions for the Organization's future programmes. .
56,6 Mr, de Hoog expréssed the fear that the dis-  cussion which would také place in the Programme  Commission at the beginning of the General Con-.  ference might delay thé latter's work. .I do not think  it would, ‘for the Direètor-General's statemerit would  be made immediafely after the opening 6f the General  Conference;-* The latter,” in plenary meeting, would  subsequently be able’to hear, as ft normally doés,  statements by the different representatives of Mem-  ber States - national statements, At approximately  the same time, the Programme Commission could  start its work, beginning with this discussion in  ordér to establish directives for the working paities,
56,7 Regarding the proposal just mdde by Mr, de .  Hoog, I myself do not think it-would be altogethor -  "desirable to set up, during the last fortnight of the  session of the General Confereriée! ‘a'speclal working  party to draw up proposals for the Programme Com-  mission, For the object of our éwn proposal to  organize a discussion at the conclusion of thé pro-  ceedings of the' Programme Commission was to glean,  from the discussions of the Working parties and the  Programme Commission, the essénée of remarks  bearing on thé futufe, If, on thé contrary, this  working pd#ty met alone a fortnight before the end of  the Conferérce*- |, ei beforé the end of the proceed-  ings df the Programing Comnilasion = it would bé a  new working party which could work out its own pro-  posals but would hardly be able to take account of the  total experience of the other working parties,” Accord-  ingly, I do not think that this proposal would be of
319  MEETINGS     XXIV  sufficient assistance in the preparation of the future  programme,
67. The PRESIDENT: =.  I would now request Mr, Adiseshiah to give us his  comments, : LL 8 ©
58,1 Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant-Director-General):  “Mr, President, in the hope that. we may be able to  finish our discussiôn,- may 1 briefly comment on what  has been said about this vesolution?.:1 think the plenary  meeting would like to know that the resolution befoie:  you {s the result of careful discussion in the General’  Committee of the General Conference, which called  upon the various delegations roferred to in the docu-  ment to meet together to draw up a joint resolution,  It was agreed that this joint resolution should be part,  of a larger resolution which emanated from the join! -  meeting of the Pédgramme and Administrative Com-  missions; - In view of the discussions which have just  taken place; may I rail your attention to the fact, that :  “the second part of the résolution begins with the ¢ipera-  tive. paragraph, ‘ which reads, as corrected in the  English text:' "Requests the Executive Board and the.  Director-General to (ake into account, In making …  recommendations for the organization of the work of  the eleventh session of the General Conference, the  proposals made by the Bureau of the Programme  Commission, by the Chairman arid Rapporleurs of the  working parties,“ and by the various delegations; in  particulat, etc. i i. Therefore first, Mr. President, -  you are not laying down Directives here for.the orga-  nization of the eléventh session of the General Con-  ference; you are only asking the Executive Board and  the Director-General to take into consideration the  various suggestions, made by the Chairman of the  Programme Commission and its Bureay, ‘and by  various delegations, ‘which are contained in this resolu-  tion, The General Conference and the Bureau of the  General Conference had before them a résolution  jointly sponsored by France and Poland, and also a  document submitted by the ‘delegation of Canada, "All  these suggestions were then discussed, and we have  had a suggestion from the delegation of the Netherlands.
58.2 As 1 see it; if you pass this resolution, the  Director-General and the Executive Board will con-  sider these suggestions which you have put forward  here, they will also consider the suggestion that has  been made by the delegation 'of the Netherlands, they  will evaluate thèse various suggestions ‘and will then  make recommendations to you, at thé eleventh session,  on the organization of the work of the Conference.  In this light, 1 bellève that thé resolution presented:  here in document 10 C/76 Addendum: thé second part  of which was worked out carefully by a ñumber of’  delegations, uses térms which would allow the Execv-  tive Board and the Directôr-Gereral to study these  suggestions carefully,” together with the records of this  discussion fn which the delegation of the Netherlands  has made a new suggestion, in order to make their  final recommendations’to you: - cm
58.3 Oné further point, Mr, Président, -in relation  to the statement of the délegation of the Netherlands.  I belleve that the resolution will be simple if it is  amended in one or two respects, The title should  read: "Preparation of the Proposed Programme and  Budget for 1961-1962, and Organization of the Work   XX1y  of the Eleventh Session of the General, Conference",  That should be the title, because the, second part of  the resolution does not refer only to the Programme  Commission, Then we would delete '!1,. Preparation  of the Proposed Programme’ and Budget", so that the  resolution would read "The General Conference, :  f, Notingetc.....", Under II, delete the heading  and the words "General Conferenc)", so as to read:  "Recognizing that the organization and the work of the  Programme Commissione., ". and so on to the end of  the resolution, ‘In this form, with this explanation,  I believe that this resolution could be accepted in the  light of all that has been said here,
591 The PRESIDENT:  Any further coriments ?- Thon I will put the Adden-  dum, with thé modifications suggested by the Secreta-  riat, to the vote,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands, )
59,2 The resolution is unanimously adopted,
59.3 - Ladies and .gentlemen,’ I am sure we have all  taken note of documént 10 C/78 embodying important  suggestions which were presented to us some time ago  by Mr, Beeby, No vote is required on this, "We have  now covered the agenda alréady circulated, If you  agree, we.may' now take up another item so that  tomorrow morning the session will be reserved for  general discussion and the installation of the Director-  General, ‘ The new item for consideration is
10 C/Nominations/30; the Report of the Nominations  Committee on the proposed membership of tho Legal,  Reports and Headquarters Committees, I request the  Chairman of the Nominations Committee kindly to  present his report, ?  MEMBERSHIP OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE, REPORTS  * COMMITTEE AND BEADQUARTERS COMMITTEE
60. - Mr. KALERGIS (Gréece), Vice-Chairman of  the Nominations Conÿrittee:  Mr. President, fellow. delegates, in the absence of  the Chairman, Mr. Massaquoi of Liberia, ! had the  honour of presiding over the meeting of the Nomina-  tions Committee held this morning to prepare nomi-  nations for membership of the Légal Committee and  the Reports Committée to serve at the eleventh ses-  sion of the General Conference, and to make recom-  mendations tô detérmirie the:membership of the. .  Headquarters Committee.- The task of the Committee  was greatly facilitated by the proposal concerning the  membership of the’ ‘Reports’ Committee which was -  submitted in writing by Professor Bedreltin ‘Tuncel -  of Turkey, who has served with such distinction as  Chairman of the Reports Committée at this session;  and by propos/1s for the membership of the Head-  quarters 8 nd legal Committees moved by Sir Ben  Bowen THémas "¢f the United Kingdom and by Mr. .  Rune Eriksson of Sweden. These proposals were  carefully studied by the Committee, due attention being  ‘given to the special responsibilities of membership of  the individual committees, as well as to the need to  achievé the best geographical distribution possible,  As you are aware, the General Conference at its  present session decided to increase the membership  of the Reports Committee from 19 to 23 members,  thus permitting a more equitable representation of
320  PLENARY MEETINGS  Member States on this Committee, - On the other hand  it decided to reduce the membership of the Headquarters  Commiitea from 20 to 8 members; in view of the  diminished responsibility of that Committee now that  the Headquarters building has:reaçhed iis present stage  of completion,. The membership of the Legal Com-  mittee remains unchanged at 15 members, In accord-  ance with the provisions of Article 31 of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference,‘ There were  thus fewer places available than at the ninth session of  the General Conference, 1 wish therefore to pay  tribute to the co-operative spirit shown by those Mem-  ber States who voluntarily withdrew their candidates  in order to enable others to serve, As a result, the  Committee reached agreement on the following pro-  posals which I have the honour to submit to you on its  behalf.: These proposals are before you in writtén form  in document 10 C/NOM/30i: Headquarters Committee
(8 members); - Argentina;; Ausiralia;- France; Japan;  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; > United Arab  Republic; United Statep of America; Venezuela; Legal  Committee (15 members): Costa Rica;. Denmark;  Ecuador;- France; -Indonesla; .Italy;--Lebanon; Liberia;  Netherlands; Pakistan; Rumania; Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics;- United Kingdom;: United States of  America; Venezuela, Reports Committee (23 members):  Argentina; Australia; Belgium; Brazil; Ceylon;  Chile; Ethiopia; Finland; Ghana; India; Iran; Israel;  Italy; Japan; Mexico; Morocco; Philippines; Poland;  Turkey; Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; United  States of America; Viet-Nam; Yugoslavia. .
61, The PRESIDENT: .  I call upon the delegate of Argentina,
62, Mr. CALCAGNO (Argentina) (Translation from  the Spanish):. - .  Mr. President,- Argentina has had the honour ct  being proposed by. the’ Nominations Committee as a  member of two Committees:. the Reports Committee  and the Headcuarters Committee, .The Argentine  permanent delegation; believing that representation  on'the various Commissions and Committees should be  equitably distributéd among Member States, has  decided not to accept its nomination as a member of  the Reports Committee, If the Conference has no  objection, the Argentine delegation ventures to suggest  that, in its place, Uruguay should be appointed a mem-  ber of the Reports Committee, as the latter country  is not represented on any Committee and has, this year,  ceased to be represented on the Executive Board.
63.1 "The PRESIDENT;  Thank you. . I suggest that delegates who wish to  speak please deal with these three items one by one,
1 shall invite speakers for each of these three items  consécutively, Are there any comments on the first  item? ‘We shall vote on the proposal for the Head-  quarters Committee. ‘  (The vote was taken by a show of hands, ) .
63,2 The proposal is unanimously adopted,
63.3 We shall take up the proposal relating to the  Legal Committee, I call upon the delegate of India,
64, Mr, CHARI (India)!  Mr, President and fellow delegates, it is not clear  on what basis the composition of the Legal Committee   PLENARY  has been analysed, It appears that. there is greater  represent tation / or Europe than for Asia and Africa,  Originally there, was a proposal to include Iran, but  it appears that, ‘in the Nominations Committee, this  proposal has been replaced by a proposal to include  the Netherlands, giving further representation to  Europe, It is assumed that the membership is based  upon equitable geographical distribution; if that is  so, the composition of this Committee requircs some  reconsideration,
65. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the delegate of the Netherlands,
66, Mr, de HOOG (Netherlands) (Translation from  the French):  Mr, President, colleagues, 1 simply wish to in-  form you that the Netherlands delegation would have  willingly accepted the nomination of the Netherlands  as a member of the Legal Committee, in order to  serve the General Conference; but if the withdrawal  of its candidature would be to the convenience of  certain delegations or even to the General Conference  as a whole, we would be quite ready to place this  candidature at the disposal of the General Conference,
67. The PRESIDENT:  Since there is no other speaker, I would request  that a proposal be put forward, 1 call upon the dele-  , gate of India.  MEETINGS
68, Mr, CHARI (India):  Mr. President, I propose Iran in place of the  Netherlands.
69,1 The PRESIDENT;  Does anyone second that proposal?  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
69,2 The proposal has been adopted by 33 in favour,
4 against, with 19 abstentions, The result is to re-  place the Netherlands in the Legal Committee by  Iran. ,
89,3 I would ask you now to vote on the proposed  composition of the Legal Committee, with Iran in  place of the Netherlands, -
69, 4 opé
69,5  gate from Argentina begs to withdraw in favour of  Uruguay, Any other proposals? Any objections?  I take it then that this is accepted,
69,6 Now I will raquest you to vote on the proposed  composition of the Reports Committee, with Uruguay  in place of Argentina,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands. )
69,7 The proposal is unanimously adopted,  The meeting rose at 7 p.m.