4 December 1958, at 11 a.m,  President: Mr, Jean BERTHOIN (France)  CONTENTS  Celebration of the tenth anniversary of the Universal  Declaration of Human Rights . . . . . +. « 2 + +. « + . 292  CELEBRATION OF THE TENTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE  UNIVERSAL DECLARATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS
1.1 “The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Ladies and gentlemen, thé meeting is open. May
1 begin by reminding you that, on 11 December 1948,  the Unesco General Conference, meeting in Beirut,  was Informed that, after extensive study : over a long  period of persevering and dedicated preparatory  work, the General Assembly of the United Nations  had just’ adopted a Universal Declaration of Human  Rights and was asking the ‘Specialized Agencies to  bring that Deélaration to the.notiée of all their  members, and tô make à start forthwith on the trans-  lation of its principies into practice.
1.2 ‘The approval of the Declaration was hailed in  addresses by several delégates, and the Genéral  Conference then wert on to adopt” forthwith : a draft  resolution J; sirücting the Diréctor- -General to  stimulate ‘th disseinination of information’ about this  tmportant instrument and to ask the Programme  Departments of Unésco to make the’ fullest possible  use of this historic Declaration’ in their’activities.
1,3 At à récent ‘meeting, the General Committee  came to the ¢oficlusion that 13 ought to advise that the  General Confererice’ solemnly commemorate the tenth  anniversary of the Declaration by asking the repre-  sentative of the Secretary- -General of the United  Natiéns and members of seven delégations represent-  ing the major cultural regions of the world to deliver  addresses, If these proposals are agreeable to you,
1 shall accordingly call upon the representatives who  have put their hames down, I shail begin by asking  Mr. Georges Paithey, Deputy Director of the European  Office of the United Nations in Geneva, to come to  the rostrum as the representative of the United  Nations Secretary-General.
2,1 Mr. PALTHEY (United Nations’ (Translation  from the French};  - Mr. Président, Mr, Chatïman ofthe Executive  Board, Mr. Director-General, ladies and gentlemen,  it 18 a great honour for me to be the bearer of greet-  ings and a message from the Secretary-General of  the United Nations to the Udesco General Conference  at today's meeting in honour of the tenth anniversary  of the proclamation of the Universal Declaration of
292     Human Rights, Our present meeting place, the  nearness of the Palais'de Chaillot; the’ presence  are redolent, all corbirie” to give a solemnity  to this meeting in | commértioration of that other  tenth ‘of December fn 1848, on which the General  Assembly of the United Nations proclaimed the  International Charter of Human Rights, -
2.2 The Universal Declaration of Human Rights  contains few new péinéiples. In most cases it does  no more “han codify the long-standing yearnings of  mankind - for just ce, for liberty, and, subconsciously,  for escapé ‘trom physical ‘and £ 8 ictus frustration to  a life of greater fullness and’ "dig A ity = - which have been  the ultimate causes of all the great révolutionary and  liberating movements throughout hiétaty. They  found re-expression in modern fimés {ni the Eighteenth  century, and were an active terment throughout the  Nineteenth, particularly’ ti the Teyolutions. of 1848,  but right down to our own day, 8 such recognition as was  won for them was national | only, . eve
10 Decembér 1948, Human Rights have bécome a  factor in the building of the international community.
2.3 Thé United Nations Charter, thé Uñivér sal  Declaration of Hunidn Rights), | and thé Constitutions  of the Specialized Agencies of the United Nations are  woven of the same thought, and derived from the same  ideals, Our aims are in every, cise idefitical’ and the  pursuit of thosé aims ls the essential task of our age.  Does not the preamble of the Universal Declaration  assert that recogniticn of the inherent dignity of all  members of the human family is the foundation of  freedom, justice and’ peace?’ And is not that peace,  to whose building all our organizations’ are dedicated,  itself a means of éreating à béttér world in which the  human personality can'achieve fulfilment, exploiting  all its potentialities and enjoying all its rights? Thus  ‘there is nothing surprising in the fact that to trace  the genesis of the Declaration 18 to recount the  history of the United Nations.
2.4 The principles on which the soclety of the  future must be based were laid down by President  Roosevelt in 1941 in his famous message to Congress   PLENARY MEETINGS  - freedom of thought, freedom of belief, freedom from  hunger and fear, The theme was taken up again in  the Atlantic Charter; and provided the background,  first at- Dumbarton Oeks and later in San Francisco  in 1945, to all the ‘discussions and arguments which  issued finally in the signature of the United Nations  Charter, in which again it is echoed time and time  again, so Int{mately | are the Four Freedoms bound up  with the ideals of the United Nations, Naturally,  therefore, one of the first tasks set the United  Nations, once brought into being, was to reduce these  basic rights to writing and to ¢onsider appropriate  measures for securing their proclamation and imple-  mentation throughout the, world,’
2.5 Thus the drafting of a Declaratièr was put at  the head of the agenda, first by the United Neslons  Preparatory Commission in London in 1945 and  later, in 1948, when the Economic and Social Council  formed the Commission on Human Rights: '. , =~  In April 1946, Mr, Henri Laugier, Assistant.  FI, General of the United Nations, opening the  proceedings of the "nuclear" Commission on Human  Rights, suggested that its task was to arrivé at the  basis for a declaration of fundamental rights to which  all the United Nations could subscribe, and accep-  tance of which would become a condition precedent for  the admission of new members to the international  community, Lu
2.7 The formally ‘constituted Commission on Human  Rights began its first session at Léke Success in  January 1947, with Mrs, Eleanor Roosevelt in the  Chair, whereupon the Viçe- Chairman, Mr. Henri  Cassin, tabled a first draft ofa declaration of human  rights, which, less than'i§ months later, on 18 June
1948, was adopted by ‘the Commission as an’ inter-  national declaration of human rights, Finally, on
10 December following, the text was adopted as a  Universal Declaration by the General Assembly of the  United Nations, i’.
2.8 . The United Nations at once embarked “on the  drafting of covenants in connexion with the’ ‘applica-’  tion of human rights, and two drafts Jere prepared,  one dealing with economie and soc s and the  other with civil and political rights} The di fricuities  which emerged during thé exarhination'of theéé =  drafts did not block progress aid a seiles of studies  were undertaken tor the purpose of arriving’ at: IE  specific conventions open to all Member States, Con-  ventions on genocide; on the political: ‘rights’ ‘of women,  on slavery, on the status of refugees, on the problems  of freedom of information and of the nationality of  married women. are now in force. -A _conyention' on”  stateless persons has, been adopted and it only re-:  mains to bring it into effect. - Investigation of thé  question of freedom of information continues, For  refugees, practical steps have been" and are being >  taken, Originally by the Interpsttonal Refugee. Organ-  ization and ‘currently by. the High Commissioner's  Office for Refugees and by the United Nations Reliet  and Works, Agency for Palestine Refugées. For more  than 10 years past, the- International Children's Fund  has been pursuing its relief activities for children  and mothers.
2.9 All this, however; affords only a very incom-  plete picture of the activities of the United Nations  family in this sphere. As much again is being done  on the ideological side, and still more on the practical,
293  XXI  by the Specializéd Agencies. The Food and Agricul-  ture Organization and the World Health Organization  are taking their full share’ ‘of the bardeén in thoii:  respective ephére, by trying to improve ‘économie and  health conditions, for large sections of the world's  population sufficiently for thé terri "human rights"  to become more than a nieaningles.: catch- -phrâse.
2,10 The International Labour’ Organisation is still  more directly involved in the implementation of the  Declaration, having made ‘à vigurous beginning on  such important questions às freedom of choice of  employment, freedom of association, the prevention of  forced labour, social security, proteètion against  unemployment and the improvement of working condi-  tions.
2.11 But in an these sétivities directed to sécuring  the triumph of human rights throughout the world, a  place of spéoiai distietion has fallen to Unesco, which  © is hénoured first indeéd by the difficulty, but above  all by the grandeur and nobility, of thé task assigned  it. Whereas thé other ‘Agericies seek to secüre the  implementation’ of Human rights by legal} economic  or scientific means; Unesco's’ aim lé to free man  from the shackles within his own soul and/1o’ give him  that freedom of thé spirit Without which'ail other  freedom is vain, ‘One of your formér Directors-  General, Mr, Jaime Torres- -Bodét; has said: "The  Declaration’ of 10 Décember is not only à miléstôné  in historÿ:" it 1a also a'plan ôf carnpalgn.” It is’ also  the philogophical basis of your sustained ‘activities  for education, for the advancement of culture and for  the progress of science; it is the driving force in  your battle against illiteracy, discrimination and pre-  judice, By doing the task set it, Unesco is a key  factor in thé achievement of the ideals of the great  family of the United Nations for, as you, Mr. Presi-  dent, have reminded us, it is in the minds and hearts  of men that peace is born.
3. ‘The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  "I call oh Mr, Brurisvick of the French delegation,  who is to read you a message from Mr. René Cassin,  sometime Chairman and member of the United Nations  Commission on Human Rights.
4,1 ‘Mr; BRUNSVICK (France) (Translation from  the French); - Loar tt  a Peeper; ies C ok of thé Executive  of né folinderé i Uneésco ind oné ‘of those aay  coricernéd in the drafting of the Universal Declaration  of Human ‘Rights, {6 speak at thé plenary meeting’ of  the Unesco General Conferénéé'éet aside té commem-  orate the tenth’ annivérsary of the ‘adoption’ of this  historic instrumerit by the United Nations General  Assembly.“ :
4,2 Unfortinately, Lai torced, ‘for the first time and  to my great regret; to husband my ‘Strength ‘and, after  the ceremony jointly arranged on 3 Décember at the  Sorbonne by the French National Commitfee’ and the  French National Commiséiori for Unesco, where I  addressed an attentive arid enthusiastic ‘audience, Tam  obliged to ask you to hold me ‘excused and to limit -  myself to a message to the members of the Unesco  General Conference, -
4.3 The purpose of this message is not to say what   XXII  Mr. Berthoin, the French Minister of National Educa-  tion and President’ of the Conference, will tell you  with fap ‘more authority than myself about France's  tidelity to the great ideal which the Universal Declar-  ation embodies,
4,4 It will do air ‘want, firetiy, it i succeeds in  confirming your taith in the indefeasible substance  and in the power of the Universal Declaration and,  secondly, if if manages to give you a new sense of the  vast and beneficent {ask devolying on Unesco from  the e Declaration itself and for Ais propagation.- “-  The experience. of ten years has been enough  to how that, if the principles proclaimed by the  Universal Deglarpilon. are still far from full trans-  lation into fact, the reason 18 not that the document  approved by the United Nations Assembly in 1948 does  not meet the deep aspirations ¢ of mankind, Far other-  wide, this document, produced’ by a tew scholars and  philanthropists, after the horrors of the Second World  War, sought | to give ufterance to the protest of the  world's conscience against the atrocities called  forth by two deadly enemies of human dignity, ;  Hitlerism And Racism. _ The unanimous support  received by the Declaration from the representatives  of the peoples of all continents - nations old or young,  States underdeveloped or otherwise - ghows that the  improvement of man's lot is one of the perennial  problems which all responsible men haye most at  heart. _ Since ‘1948 no nation has achieved indepen-  dence and taken ts place in our international Agencies  without explicitly pledging its acknowledgement of  human rights.
4.6 As jet, alas, the practical results achieved  still lag behind the hopes engendered in the hearts of  human beings. Too many individuals, in the social  groups of which they are a part, still suffer oppres-  sion, hardship dnd often the effects of unjust pre-  judices. ‘Nearly half the human race is still illiterate  and undernourished.
4.7 The fault, however, does not lie with the Uni-  versal Declaration: rather does the Declaration con-  Vict us of tardiness, lukewarmness and inhumanity.
4.8 We therefore need to redouble our efforts,  alike on the political, the social, the economic and  above all the moral plane, to secure, as a first step  to positive reforms of our institutions, the conver-  sion of the outlook of Individuais, groups, and rulers  to one, of ever fuller \ackiowledgement and respect  of man 8 ‘basic rights ard liberties, without any  discrimination whatever,
4.0. Its from ‘the Universal Declaration of Human  Rights, that the challenge { to this vast task comes to  Unes, fe. delegates, officials, experts and members  Sh lial Commi Ingles, . Lead de
4,1 + F SF we. must béar in 1 ind that i is inthe.  sehosi and shaping of indjyiduals and institutions  that the preamble of the Déclaration places, its first:  reliance for the promotion of the Programme of -  action ‘which the Declaration imposes, ..
4, 11; Quite Apart à from the specific {asks falitng to  Unesco for the implementation of the right.of each -  individual to schocling, training, intellectual creation  and the benétits of ‘solente, and culture, Unesco thus  ‘has à  general and comprehensive task - the task of  working to ensure that all human beings, young or old,  shall know and appreciate the full scope of the Decla-  rafion's principles and shall understand not only
294  PLENARY MEETINGS  the rights but also'the duties and responsibilities  falling to cach and alt,
4:12. ‘Ihave much pleasure in aéknbiiledglig that  Unesco's two Directors-Generäl since 1948, Mr, ‘  Jaime Torres-Bodet and Mr, Luther Evans, have  both been fully conscious of this high résponsibility  committed to Unesco; The Human Rights Exhibition  and the initial publications on the subject are models  which have made an unforgettable impression,
4,13 However, the work to be done and the obstacles  of every kind-to be overcome are on such a scale  that none of us can feel we have done énough, I would  remind you, as Mr, Torres Bodet once put it, that  "So long as any right of any man is violated ...., 80  long as men anywhere still have to endure hunger and  want, injustice and ignoranée ..) the document signed  in Paris will seom a very far-off goal ....",  “4:14 » May Unesco then, under Mr, Veronese, its new  Director-General, continue as in the past, not limit-  ing its efforts to the zealous application of the Uni-  versal Declaration in the spheres within its immediate  purview.
4,15 The authors of the Déclaration look to the  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural  Organization, transcending all frontiers and all shifts  in policy to remain the faithful guardian of the spirit  of the text and to spread that spirit among all the  peoples of the earth."  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 call upon Mrs. Pecson, delegate of the Philippines.
6.1 Mrs. PECSON (Philippines):  Mr. President, ladles and  geitlemen, ds we pause  today, almost at the end of our labour in this General  Conference, to dwell on the signiticance of the Uni-  versal Declaration of Human Rights, the occasion  arouses in me feelings of gratification tinged with  sadness, of hope mingled with misgivings; .
6.2 In electing me, a woman, as member of the  Executive Board, you have given'added meaning to  one of the rights in the: Declaration which agserts the  equality of man'and woman. .I am profoundly grateful  for this recognition, Lone woman memter of the  Board in 1850-1954, 1 now join two, gther women in  the new Board, to help redress the, imbalance still  existing therein. I pledge, of course, the very best 1  am capable ofto help Unaëco carry out its rôle in  promoting universal { understanding, and the observance  of the rights specified in the Declaration. -
6.3 "Ljoin you in rédedicating the work of Unesco to  the task of translating into reality the ideals’ expressed  in the noblest terms by the Déclaration, ; When Ît was  mude ten years sgo, the Detlarätior was hailed as‘  ushering man into a new tra ‘of freedom wherein he  could expect io live with dignity ‘Recognized and  guaranteed “in it is man's inherent wééth‘as a human  being. Aptly, thoreford, has this great document .  been spoken of as thé’ cofiséfencé of man put into:  words, to guide his conduct «hd that of governments  in the beckoning adventure into the unknown. * e-
6.4 - But even as I take hope iri seeing how beautiful  the world ahead could be under the inapivation of this  great Magna Carta, I cannot but be saddened by the  picture of ignorance, superstition and inisery that  large areas of the earth present tous all. Asa  woman and a mother I cannot but feel a sense of   PLENARY  frustration at the distressing thought of the millions  of children who are sutfering from lack of education,  ill-health and want.. We should perhaps be thankful  that the voice of conscience in the Declaration; though  still feeble, may have gerved as one of the deterrents  - which prevented the oulbreak of another world war:  during the last decade, : But the nagging problems of  ignorarice, superstition and migery continue to plague  hundreds of millions of hyman beings to whom any  reminder that they live under the protection of the  Declaration would seem plmost a mockery, For how  can they enjoy the declared rights if they are not  freed first from the gnawing pangs of hunger? How  can they value the freedoms so solemnly proclaimed,  if they are not led out first from the darkness into  which lack of knowledge and unreasoning credulity  have cast them?
6.5 Between the high intentions expressed in the  Declaration and the modest tichieyemente of the last  ten years there is still à wide gap which, in terms of  understanding and peace through education, science  and culture, seoms to become still wider, This is  not said by way of belittling Unesco's contribution to  the promotion of peace and human welfare through  observance of the human rights, Far from it, very  far from it indeed; I would be the last person to  minimize the value of Unesco's programme of action,  But, in all candour, we should ask, and | ask now,  why, despite the magnitude of the problems confront-  ing the Organization, do we give Unesco, through its  programme and budget, resources which are piti-  fully small? From all parts of the world we come to  work here in Paris for one month; to approve a pro-  gramme for two years which costs only one-tenth of  what, according to my information, is the expenditure  of the Municipal Government of the City of Paris for  every year, Why, we may sek again, do we take so  much time, in the face of great challenges, in  establishing an International Fund for Education,  Science and Culture to enable the Organization to  start delivering massivé blows against- Allitéracy and  bad education, against misunderstanding ani prejudice?  This seems hardly to fit the occasion today, when  we sing paeans to celebrate the triumph of freedom .  and human dignity so well expressed in the Declara-,  tion of Human Rights. . If we are to endear this day  in the memory of countless generations to come, let  us reassert the spirit and substance of the Declara-  tion, Let not Unesco merely ask for reports on how  Member States celebrate this day. Let it endeavour  to cut through the inoreasing encrustation of form in  celebrating Human Rights Day and augment - because  it has done so well already; I say augment - its-  action in the fronts against ignorance, superstition  and want. On these fronts; ladies and gentlemen, the  rights recognizéd in the Declaration can be won or  can be lost. Hére in this august body we can only -  resolve once again to promote respect for the rights  - which I hope fervently wili amount to more than mere  ip service to the welfare ot humanity. i
7. ; The PRESIDENT (Translation from \ the French):  - I call upon Mr. Vassev, of the Bulgarian delega--  tion.
8.1 Mr." VASSEV (Bulgaria) (Transtation from the  Russian): ; ;
295  MEETINGS     XXII  Mr; President, fellow delegates; it gives us the  greatest pleasure to associate ourselyes with the --  thoughts and sentiments expressed by all thosé who  have welcomed, with sincere énthuslasm; the  celebration of the tenth anniversary of the proolama-  tion of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. -
8.2 The war which recently afflicted the world and  cost millions of men, women and children their lives  ended in the complete collapse of its instigators, and  the just condemnation of evil and violence, ;
8,3. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is  one of the most important results of peaceful co-  operation, in the post-war world, between States with  different social and economic systems. Man is the  most highly perfected creature of nature. It is now  ten years since the Universal Declaration of Human  Rights came into being, Man is becoming increasingly  insistent in claiming his right to work and to a better  life,
8.4 The vital force of the principles solemnly pro-  claimed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights  has been confirmed by the rise, over the past ten  years, of new independent States, both great and smali,  casting off the fetters of colonialism, These new  States are giving fresh impetus to the progress of our  society towards a brighter and better future, -The  inspiring words which, in the Universal Declaration,  define the rights of man; would lose their force and  significance if those rights were not put into practice  for the peoples of all countries,
8.5 We, in our small Republic, are puttirig into  practice the clauses of our Constitution in which the  fundamental rights of man are inscribed - freedom,  the right to work, the right to social and cultural  facilities - everything; in a word; for which the Unt-  versal Declaration of Human Rights provides,
8.6 Our country is a small one, with a population  of only seven and a half million people. The State  and society have made possible a more peaceful and  brighter old age for all pessants, both men and women,  who now receive an old-age pension, In the Republic  of Bulgaria, Article’ 25 of the Universal Declaration  of Human Rights is thus being put into practice as.  regards office and manual workers, and peasants alike.
8.7 Inour country): illiteracy is being wiped out  and, in accordance with Articole 26 of the Universal  Declaration of Human Rights, compulsory education  is being instituted for all children, boys and girls  alike, up to the age of 16, Including children belonging  to the national minorities. - +, -
8.8 Since ‘our Organization is concetned with the -  development of man's cultural activities, I should like  to give at least one example to illustrate how the right  to cultural facilities is being applied in our, country.  Last Monday evening, hospitable Paris gave two ’  of our opera singers an opportunity ‘of appearing on  the stage cf the Staté Opera Hôusé: the Bulgarian: .  tenor, Dimitri Uzunov, in the rôle of Rhadames, and  the 29-yvar old bass; Nicola Gyaurov; in’ the rôle of  Ramfis in the opera "Alda" .:’ And since art has the"  power 40 overcome all passport and other: restrictions,  Uzunov is to fly in a few daÿp'.time to New York to  appear at the Metropolitan Opera House; and Gyaurov  is to sing at the Paris Opera for a third tite; on -‘
6 December, in "Faust". The biography of both;  these Bulgarian gingers illustrates the history of the  cultural development of our young Republic, Both’.   XXII PLENARY  comie frm poor familles, ‘and the Bulgarian Staté has  provided thein with every opportunity for studying  and developing their talent. -  .
8.2 Mr; President, ladies and gentlemen, we are  all moved by the solemnity of this day's meeting to  celebrate the tenth anniversary of the proclamation  of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, At  the same time, we must admit quite frankly that  slavery still exists in the world, and that man is still  subjected to digorimination and humiliation, However,  the fact that this Confererice. has decided to prepare  an international instrument directed’ against discrim-  ination in education’ répresents à step towards the  application of the human rights proclaimed. : To put  the principles of the Universal Declaration ot Human  Rights into practice is the most important ‘of the  tasks now before us. Those who have applied and  are applying those principles still more widely will  earn the gratitude of posterity.
3. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon Mr. Mohammed El Fassi, head of the  Moroccan delegation.
10.1 Mr; EL FASS] (Mordeco) (Translation from  the French): :  Mr, President, fellow delegates, ladies and  gentlemen; the tenth anniversäry of the Universal -  Declaration ‘of Human Rights is an event which should  re-echo widely through the world, To the question  whether, during the past ten yéars, those rights have  been better upheld, the answer is not indeed an  unqualified affirmative; but we can say that, despite  the visible injusticés against himan dignity still  being committed in the world; thé notion of the trans-  cendence of human rights has made its way into the  mind of the common’ main of every people,
10.2 Evidence of thi is to bie found in the accession  of so many new members of the United Nations to  the Declaration; and the improvemént of the social  conditions of all peoples is andther facet of thé  upward movement which marks the world recognition  of human rights: Unesco! 8 own work and the action  taken by Membér States of our Organization in  support of {ts ideals} 80 as to allow of the emergence  of a better’ type’ of humanity, are striking evidence of  the Declarations BUCCeBS, : -: .
10.3 : Nevertheless; still'more Feinaing to be done  than has bee done alreddy. towards putting into .  practice ‘eut the principles’ émbodied'in the thirty  articles: ot the’ Uniyeranl Declaration of Human Rights.  The first ind principal duty failé‘on teachers and  - education sts, as indeed the Preamble to the Declara-  tion empliasizes, iin the following terms: -.:
10.4 -rhe General Aésembly proclating Lo  This Univers Declé ation of Human Rights as a  common standar | of ach hievement: “for all peoples and -  all ‘nations; | to the end thait évéry individual and every  organ of society; keeping this Deciiration constantly  in mind; | 11 stirive by. teaching ard education to  promote’ respect for thest rights aiid ‘freedoms... !",
10.5 ° Yes, it 1s first and forémos, in the schools  that respect for human dignity inust be implanted  in the coming generation, and in doing this the teacher  plays à ert of capital importance. It was because of  my appreoiation of the importance of this means of  instilling in the young love and fidelity to the ~  MEETINGS
296  . Morocco on thé anniversar:  prinéiples of the Declaration of Human Rights that  last year, 4s Minister of Education, I cäused an address  to be read in all the educational establishments of  of the Déélération, One  of my main points read as follows: 7
10,6 "On two occasions in less than a century and  a half, man has thought the moment #ipe fo reaffirm  his indefeasible rights. "What does that mean, if not  that those’ rights must often be reaff{rmed because  they are still often threatened? The forces of evil  are sifil alive and win ylétories even among the most  liberal péoplés; éometiries even in the hearts of the  most just and charitable peraons.,
10,7 ‘If we'relax for one moment, the attack is  smashed honie, It is not simply a defeat of justice  by strength but of the righteous man by his own brute  instincts. Thus we must be vigilant tô defeat the  forces of oppression not only in the world around us  but within ourselves.’
10.8 The triumph of this ideal can be secured only  by making it beloved of today! s children, who are  tomorrow's men, ‘
10,9 - - Of courde; among Us Mosleiñ Arabs, the basic  principles of the Universal Détlaration ‘of Himan  Rights have always been’ accepted and honoured, We  can indeed claim that the éhlef innovation of Islam  was this formal and unqualified ‘recognition of human  dignity, with the proclamation of the equality of men  of all'races in the Kofan and the Hadiths (traditions)  of the Prophet.’ With the Arabs serving as Islam's  champions some individuals might have claimed  superiority over other men, but the Prophét says  categorically that Arabs are not superior to non-  Arabs and no one can surpass his neighbour save in  reverence for God. The equality of man and woman  is a tenet of Islam. One of the "traditions" of the  Prophet lays it down explicitly that, in law, women are  equal to men,
10.10 ‘The right to education : = or more propérly  the duty to get education, which 1s-Islaï*s view of the  matter - is the same for men and for wémen. ‘The  actual passage laying down this obligation runs:  "Talabu l'ilmi faridatoune ala kulli muslimin wa  muslima”; (securing ‘education’ 18 a duty for every  Moslem man and every Moslem woman); in Arabic ‘  usage, the masculine "muslimin' would havè sufficed  to cover both men and women; but to leave no doubt  that this {8 an innovation and a new right accorded by  Islam to women, the ‘explicit mention ' 'muslima" is  added, - To
10.11 ‘Indeed, Islam’ 8 céticerh with the acquisition  of knowledge s and the importance of learning is” pro-’  clainied in many a yerse of the Koran and many a’  tradition of the Prophet,” We are bidden to seek -  learning from the cradle to the grave, 16 ‘seek learning  wherever it {s td be had even 11 we must go to China  for it - teaching us incidentally: ‘that’ learning is not  the preserve of any single peéple face of community  but is to be found verywherd anfong mankind, and that  no one should be too proid to seek it of others.
10.12 Again, the Koran teaches us that the learned  have pré-eminence above thosé who have remained  in ignorancé: "those who know are better than those  who know not".
10.13 Arabic and Moslem tradition ts fuit of such  maxims lauding the value of learning, and it was by  holding to those principles that the Arab civilization   PLENARY MEETINGS’  was able to achieve the brilliance which made it the  heir of Greece, of Persia and of Byzantium and  enabled it to preserve, extend and hand on to the  modern world the achievements of all civilizations  before it, .
10,14 As regards the right to liberty, we catch the  very note of Article I of the Universal Declaration in  the great rebuke of the Caliph Omar to certain power-  ful Arab leaders who, drunk with victory, were  straying from the principles of Islam and seeking to  impose their lordship on new convérts; "Since when do  you think yourselves entitled to make men slaves  when their mothers brought them into the world free?"  This was said at the beginning of the Seventh cen-  tury, and it is a notablé honour for the Arabs to find  it again at the beginning of this universal proclama-  tion which all mankind has undertaken to honour and  respect. -
10.15 If l'havé taken leave to recall these funda-  mentals of the philosophy of the Arab and Moslem  countries, ft has been the better to ‘show you how  enthusiastically the peoples of that great community  have welcomed and approved the world-wide pro-  clamation of Human Rights, Moreover, it 1s'scarcely  necessary for me to remind you that a distinguished  member of the Arab peoples, Mr. Charles Malik,  played an active part in the drafting of the Universal  Declaration, first as Rapporteur of the Commission  on Human Rights and later as Chairman of the  Third Commissién of the United Nations General  Assembly which was responsible for reviewing the  draft Universal Declaration. -
10.16 It now remains for us to hope yet again that  the peoples will redouble their efforts to make the  principles of this Declaration a living reality. And  the first necessity is that all men enjoy freedom,  the right which is the guarantee of all others, the  frame of reference determining the attitude of one  to another , and the trué foundation of peace in the  world, 80 that the understanding may reign between  all men which a verse of the Korean demands:
10.17 "We have created you, making you peoples  and communities of many kinds, that yof may know  one another, and the worthiest among you in God's  eyes is he who most honours God,"
11. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 call on Mr, Mate of the delegation of Ghana.
12,1 Mr, MATE (Ghana):  Mr: President; ladtes and gentlerien; thy cotintry  Ghana achievéd its’ independence’ on 6 Maich' 1957,  and on 8 March 1957; two days after the attainment -  of independence, it ‘entered the’ United Nations family  under the’ ‘sponsorship of thé Govérnnient ôf the United  Kingdom. ; This step was taken by’ Ghaña as a festi-  mony of its belief arid faith in the objéctives of the-  United Natlads “thé pursuit and maintenance of  freedom, justice and peace in the world,” “My country  is convinced that these fundamental objéctives -  freedom, justice and peace - can only fiavé as a sure  and solid foundation the maintenance of human rights  as set out in the Universal Declaration of Human  Rights. :
12,2 Tous in Ghana, the family, particularly in its  extended form, still remains the fundardental group  unit of our society, and the working of the family    XXII  group, including the contribution which the individual  makes to {t and the protection and assistance which he  obtains from it, makes us fully appreciative of what  the United Nations family stands for, I belleve orie  can, with some justification, draw an analogy between  the two family ‘systems.
12,3 No family can work sattefactorily to maintain  its best intereits unless each of its members is.  prepared, and sets (ut, to do hig best according to  the accepted standa¥’ds of the group. It 1s through the  enlightened collaboration of the members of the  family unit that thé rights of the individual in it are  safeguardéd, !
12,4 At this stage, I would like to enumerate a few  directions in which I think ‘nations within the United  Nations family can help promote universal respect  for human rights and the ‘fundamental fréedoms.  First of all, l'éonslder‘it esdentlal that each of the  nations should make êvery effort to be loyal and  faithful to thé principles and ideals of the United  Nations family and the vaiious organs through which  the Organization works,
12.5 ‘ There should be a systematic attempt by the  people of each nation to learn about the ways of life  of other peoples in the world; Such knowledge should  be acquired with an open mind in order to enable  each one of us to appreciate and sympathize with the  peculiar’ circumstances thät have shaped the history  and way of llviiig of other people.’
12.6 Each nation should place due émphasis on  education, in its broadest sensé, as the one potent  factor through which the undérstanding among the  memberé of the human family may be achieved and  the respect for human rights cultivated. In addition  to providing for the arts and sciences, I consider it  most essential that such education should make for the  cultivation ‘of those spiritual values which enable  individuals to subordinate iaterial intorést to the  attainment of moral ends and true “humai happiness.
12,7 Each nation should make a ‘genuiné effort to  examine {ts way of lifé and attitudes towards other  nations ard peoples, and any attitude of self-  righteousness should be’ avoided, “There should be  humble acceptance of our individual arid national  faults and weaknesses, and we should make a gemiine  and determined effort to ovércome any stich’ failings,
12,8 Whenever we come to celebrate Human Rights  Day, we should use thé opportunity for rededicating  ourselves to the noble ideals enshrined in the  Declaration in order to help promote freedom, justice  and peace in the world.
13. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon Mr. MacKenzie of the delegation of  Canada.
14.1 Mr. MACKENZIE (éénadé): ë  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen), ‘this’ yéar “dnd  this, month the world is célebrating’ thé tenth annivér-  sary of the adoption of the Universal Déclaration of  Human Rights by the General Assembly of the United  Natiôris. = | …
14.2 1am pleased and honored t6 be’ ‘amétig thosé  given the ‘opportunity of speaking on thie  this plénary session of our tenth Unesco Conference,  for there is, perhaps, no other’ ‘aubjéct which is of  more importance and of greater interest. Because   XXII PLENARY  it was suggested to me that I.should speak  particularly. to Article II of the Declaration, 1  would like to read it: .. "Everyone is entitled to  all the rights and: ‘freedoms get forth in this  Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such  as race, colour, sex, language, religion, .  political or. other opinion, national or social  origin, property, brith or other etatus. Further-  more, no distinction shall be made on the  basis of the political, jurisdictional or inter- .  national status of the country or territory to  which a person belongs, whether it be independent,  trust, non-self-governing or under any other  limitation of sovereignty",
14,3 These are high ideals which’ set forth  in sweeping. terms some of the more impor-  tant matters for which Unesco and the  United Natlons, exist and -work,- Unfortunately,  it is usually easier to set ideas down on paper,  and even to get, agreement about them, than  it is to carry. them out and to give practical  effect to them in the lives of ‘ordinary human beings;  this, because of the very nature of man himself and  of the contemporary world in which we live, While  we may agree that all human beings are born free  and equal in dignity and rights, human beings do  differ, markedly from each other and In many ways,  particularly as between different groups, nations and  races. Accepting “this fact of difference, I believe  that our objectives must be those of recognizing  diversity, but striving at the same time for a degree  of unity which makes social organizations like the  community and the State both possible and effective.  If you prefer concrete terms, we should set as our  ideal J onlty within diversity” and à atveralty with  unity".
14.4. Te ORY  get in this poe par See it Less we get Ah im-  portant or valuable,  l'émi'one of those ‘who put human  freedom at the top of the list ‘of human objectives and  attainments ! and id donot bolleve that human beings  can enjoy. the h uma n rights ; described in our Déclara-  tion without the ‘maximum Treedom for the human. tn}  individual. ‘This freedom it it ia to mean anything,  for me at least, includes the right to my own opinion  and to et stafing that’ épinion, evén, though it be  contrary 9 that Niel Ahi hnient’ and the majorit y,  of my tellow citizens, It mist also Include, thé right  to live ny ‘own lite in the wa that I'want to, dive it, -  _even though this too means at I may not agree with  the majority. of my fellow countrymen, . But having  sald this, I would want again ta Join, with it the neces-  sity for an acceptance of responsibility for the con-  duct of one's own alfafrs in ong! s relations with  others, so that this responsibility and acceptance of  MEETINGS
298  looking after oné's self may make the achievement of  personal freedom for myself and ‘others a real possi-  bility i but this is not an easy or ‘a simple thesis,  philosophy, dr way of life, for some measure of con-  formity on the part of all of us is essential if society  and the State are to function and to serve human  beings as they should and as they must. ‘And so for  me, the measure of a good goclety and of the ideal -  nation State is the extent of the personal liberty it  allows to its members and the degree to which these  members, in turn, willingly and without compulsion  co-operate together for social and national ends and  aspirations, .
14.5 Wein Canada, being Hunan, are far from  perfect, and I suspect that you can find among us, .  examples of all of the ills and evils which are common  to human beings everywhere else, But I am proud of  my country, not particularly t because of its physical  size or its potential wealth, but because I' believe it  is trying to work out in practical and peaceful ways  some of these things 1 have been try to express -  that is, unify within diversity, and the maximum free-  dom of the individual even though he be a non-conformist,  This is perhaps inevitable with us because of the very  nature and history of our country, representing as we  do, on an equal basis, two great but very different  cultures and languages, and containing within our  borders representatives of practically every race and  nation in the world: As an example, my.own University  of British Columbia, which is one of the youngest and  newest in Canada, includes among {ts 10,000 students,  more than 1,200 who are not Canadlan citizens, and  these 1,200 represent more than 60 nations. Now I  like to think, and I do hope, that all of the high-.  sounding things that I have said and all the noble ideals  included in our Declaration of Rights are given effect  on the campus of our University and in our province’  and throughout our nation, ; But because of what 1 said  earlier about human nature - which is’ generally good,  bad or indifferént, wherever you find it - regrettably,  there are bound {6 be exceptions to our ‘desirable  aspirations, and unhappy situations which we all  regret. ; -But this for me is a continuing challenge -  to the end that the ideals get out in the Declaration of  Human Rights may in fact be realized, not only in  taws and regulations, but in the datly lives of human  beings everywhere, : - |... .
14.6 It is; as I have said; falrly simple’ to write  down and" evén to agree to lofty, ‘ideélä, It {8 a much  more difficult and complicated ‘task {0 translate there  into the daily practices and habits of. ordinary human  beings in towns, villages and countrysides throughout  the world, In this, I believe Uneséo has a special .  rôle to play because of heï, concern for education of  human beirgs. everywhere, { for, their appreciation of  each’ other, for the tolerant understanding and  acceptance. of their differences, and for  their respect and, desire {o share In the cul-  tural achievements’ of: other peoples, i And so,  while. we must agree that our wotid is far  from having achieved all of the:goals set :  forth in the Declaration of Human Rights. adopted  ten years ago, the existence of this :  Declaration, and the interest of all nations in  it, offer, I believe; the best evidence that  some day these ideals will be realized for  all human beings everywhere,   PLENARY  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Finally I call on Mr, de Alba, head of the delega-  tion of Mexico.
16.1 Mr, de ALBA (Mexlco) (Translation from the  Spanish): =. …1.-  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, before  delivering my propared address I wish to express  publicly my delegation's thanks for the appreciative  references, made from this rostrum by the repre-  sentative of the Secretary-General of the United  Nations and the spokesman of the French delegation  who read Mr, Cassin's message, to my fellow-  countryman, Dr. Torres Bodet, the present Secretary  of Education in Mexico, .- -,* ,
16.2- The Universal Déclaration of Human Rights  is the final canalization of à flood of human aspira-  tions which has flowed through many ages, In the  struggle against tyranny, poverty and ignorance,  each generation in suécession left its own message  of hope or promise of justice until the violence,  savagery and dentruction of the Second World War  fertilized the soil with blood to set the ideals of  political freedom and material adyancement a-growing.
16,3 It is ten years since this samme great-hearted  and hospiteble ¢ity of Paris saw the final shaping of  the Universal Declaration of Human Rights at the  third General Assembly of the United Nations and its  gifting to this and succeeding generations as compen-  sation for the cffences and bitternesses suffered  during the Second World War. The Declaration is a  gospel of peace, concord and brotherhood which we  of this age should read daily to guide our acts, that  life's journey may be less harsh,
16.4 In the Unesco General Conference we must  concern ourselves principally with cultural rights.  The right to compulgory elementary education free  of charge ic written large in Article 26 of the  Declaration, which also makes {t mandatory. that :  technical and professional education be made gensi-  ally available and that higher education be - as it  should in a democracy - equally accessible to all  on the basis of merit. “In all these sectors Unèsts  hag. played its part towards the strengthening and  implementation of the Universal Declaration of Human  Rights, and already has. fruitful achievements to its  credit. =, .-
16.5 On the targets and purposes ot education. in  our age, Article 26 urges that education be diranted  to the development of the human personality and the  enjoyment of the essential freedoms, and so coriceived  as to promote understanding, tolerance and fritnd-  ship among all nations and thereby further the, -  maintenance, of world-peace. , The education it ‘des-  cribes is not egocentric, for it laye down duties to-  wards our fellows and towards the internation 11  political community. AE I
16.6 ,, How far have these ‘requirements of. the Uni-  versal Declaration of Human Rights been complied  with? .;Mankind today is not without cause to blush"  and feel the prick of conscience at the lack of -  respect shown to the moral and philosophical impera-  tives of the Declaration we signed in Paris len years  ago. ….
16,7. Schooling. and education are nt activities  pursued in isolation, but elements in the mainstream .  of each people's life as a national entity and as a
299  XXII  member of the international community: Cultural  rights éome near the énd of the Declaration, as though  the drafters had had the notion that education and  culture were dependent on the prior enjoyment in full  measure of the physical, civil, economic, social and  political rights laid down in the proceding 26 Articles.  Human Rights cannot be split up or dissected: they  must be mutual corrélativés,: They.arè interdepen-  dent, and together form a whole wliich links up with  the philosophy inférming thé Declaration in its  entirety. Ignorance is a form of destitution, an index  of a low standard of living and a mark of servitude,  In the Universal Declaration, every form of slavery,  physical and moral, is coïdemned.
16,8 The authors of the French Declaration of the  Rights of Man in 1789, and the Fathers of Independence  in the Spanish-American Republics, brought to their  condemnation of slavery an impulsive but perhaps  slightly impractical highmindedness. Hidalgo, the  earliest hero of Mexican Independence; issued a  decreee abolishing slavery throughout America in
1810; backed up, in the eéonomic sphere, by the {dea  of restoring their land to the natives. . The great  Captain of the armies of liberation, as Walt Whitman  called Lincoln, the stainless hero and martyr of the  abolition of slavery in the United States of the Northern  Continent, drove through his abolitionist amendment  to triumph but, as lie had no time to introduce it into  the social structure, reprisals later broke out,  followed by the mass exodus of former slaves to  become homeless wanderers without means of  livelihood, ’
16.9 Great social reforms must be accompanied  by educational campaigns and vice-versa: those are  conclusions which follow logically ffom the many  passages of the Universal Declaration of Human  Rights speaking of respect for the dignity of the  individual,” -….
16.10 In-its tirst article the Declaration echoes’  Thomas Jefferson in laying down that all human beings  are born frée, equal in dighity and rights, For the  harmonious reconciliation of the dignity of éach  individual and the rights àf all individuals, the Decla-  ration calls categorically for the aid of reason and  conscience, that thereby brotherhood may be achieved  between all the men upon earth. . -
16.11 < It-is a goal that cän be reached only through  a vitalizing education of the whole man, studiés to :  develop all the facultiés and ‘manual aptitudes of each  individual and to set-him fn the way of trusting, and :  inviting the trust of; his'fellow mati} that he may - i:  cherish a genuine reverence towards others," Article
26 of the Declaration calls for the promotion of :  understanding; tolerance and friendship dmong alll  nations, racial or religious géoups; and the furthérance  of the activities of the United Natioiis for the miainte-  nance of peace, i That 1s- the historic mission which  Unesco is carrying out by striving with éver-inciéeasing  determination for the achievement of harmony aisd  co-operation between all the peoples of the earth,  That is the road by which the coming generations will  achieve freedom "from the threefold yoke 'àf tyj'anny,  ignorance and vice ", making a reality of the ideas  expressed by America's Liberator, Simon Bolivar,  in his eloquerit message to the Angostüra Congress
140 yeai's ago, epitomizing the aspirations of the new’  Republics of the Western Hemisphere.   x21IH
16,12 - With this ceremony to honour the tenth  - anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human  Rights, Unesco is providing the clearest proof to this  audience of distinguished personalities from all the  world that as the humanists put it, no problem or  concern of man is alien to it.
17.1  Ladies and gentlemen; the voices we have heard  from every quarter .of the globe still sound in our  ears, tense with the same. determination and vibrant  witli the same unçonquerable hope,
17.2 We have heard the United Nations speaking in  the name of hundreds of millions of men - thé Philip-  pines, Bulgaria; Morocco, Ghana, Canada, Mexico!  Who could ever have foreseen that one day such  accord, at once of the mind and of the heart, would  be reached between peoples so diverse! And who -  could fail to sre, behind the official formality of this  ceremony, how stirped France is by the spectacle of  an upsurge of the spirit of such irresistible strength  beginning in this Paris meeting-room and bursting  out beyond it, to lap every shore in the world, as  though to herald the return to their own lands of the  dedicated workers for a common cause, who are here  today and who will, I am sure remain, o our tried  friends, -
17.3 The deeper meaning and abundant promise of  this movement of the spirit have been expounded by  one of the most eminent jurists of our age, Mr. René  Cassin, yesterday at the Sorbonne and today in the  noble message you have just heard from him. .
17.4 Although the main points have beén excellently  put by spokesmen whose eloquence matched the fer-  vency that fired them; the whole question of Human  Rights, and how they should be used in nian's best  interests, raises such problems that I have thought it  fitting, as President of the tenth session of the General  Conference of Unesco, to address you in my turn.
17.5 First and foremost, we need to restore the  Declaration to its true context, which is ethical, and  to see in its 30 Articles a turning point in the evolu-  tion of man's spiritual ideal - that ideal which, with  so many awe-{napiring forces arrayed against it,  seeks only to rise higher and aspire more greatly.  In a word, the primary effect of this Declaration must  be to contribute to the purification and uplifting of  mankind's heart.
17.6 * Of course, from the earliest time; this  spiritual element, this surge of charity, has sought to  find expression. The roll of honour of the struggle  for human rights includes the prophets and apostles  of the past who took their. stand against tyrahniés of  all kinds, and the martyrs too, who, with the fore-  knowledge of imminent death, may have had a vision  of the happiness of free men - a happiness still so  far in the future - at a time when all too often their  heroic sacrifice may have seemed useless to thelr  fellows, - ..: soa
17,7 Sometimes too, a tew leaders with absolute  powers suddenly perceived the shame of abusing them,  and some, the wisest and most virtuous, sought their  title to fame by associating their name or reign with  this or that riew guarantee. :
17.8 Mayna Carta, the corner- stone of the political  and personal freedoms which today are part of the  British tradition, was followed by the Norwegian  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):     PLENARY MEETINGS  Landslov which, nearly seven ¢enturlés age, conceded  the privilege of justice to all thé king's subjects;:  and that by the Polish law of 1430 preparing:thè ground  for the well-known English Yhabcas corpus” which,  with the religious freedoms granted in Bohemia, was  to be the glory of the Seventeenth century...Then came  the Declaration of Indepéndencé of the United States  cf America, whereby the Philadelphia Congress  established inalienable politichi rights,” Finally, -  thirteen years later; the French National Assembly:  promulgated the Déclaration of the Rights of Man and  of the Citizen which was to be thé inspiration of all  those called on to rebuild the structures of societies  and States on better lines,’
17.9 To this long tradition of aspirations, efforts -  and achieyements a last link was added on 10 December
1948 to extend thé chain'paësed down by dead men's  hands. Indeed it extended it inmeasurably, for we  must be clear that this Universal Déclaration from’  which the whole of Unesco's vast programme, with its  tremendous possibilities, 1e derived - is not a'mere  enlargement to world scèle of the agreements reached  in other days between particular sovereigns'and their  peoples. It is in ite nature rather than its scope that,  without superseding them, it transcends immeasurably  the models which may have inspired its devising.  It outranks them too in its genesis, for it is the product  not of a revolution but of a resolution,
17,10 Until 10 December 1948, economic, social  and cultural rights had been more or léss néglected.  Then came the moment when the substance of all  national contracts whatsoever, however far-reaching  their teaching and influence, could no longer suffice to  satisfy man's growing aspirations after complete  fulfilment of his powers and gifts on a scale commen-  surate with the continuous political and socidlègical  metamorphoses which are widening the world's hori-  zons, op =
17.11 The fact le iat hitman consclousness too,  whatever some may think, describes a rising curve  of progress in its needs and demands, yhich’can-  transcend what had been thought to be tae tina} heights.  The raking spur of absolute values driy es man on  towards an ever loftier conéept of whal, hé should be,  on which he perpetually seeks {fo model himself, It 16  this undeniable increase of séruple, laying new duties  on the community, which gives our Declaration its  quality not merely of outrenéhing but of transcending  all that went before it, In truth, it expresses the keen  longing for a brothérhood of man which ‘shall be full  and final and ‘which would feel itself satisfied in nothing,  if this time its demands did riot comprehend all that  human justice should corded,” - i-
17,12 This Universal Declaration ‘ of Fufan Rights,  the crown of long striyiñig añd sign be a nded born ii  the depths of man's bélnif, has'ih reality ‘become the  most "live" and urgent subject in thé world, for wé’  have reached a moment hen the men of’ ‘dur ‘entity,  tempered by testing and grievois expérience, need to’  feel that in this text the have, nôt a Book of rules to  which to turn, but the vorÿ essencé of their most  generous wishes and most hatural aspirations : “ ‘wishes  and aspirations which they must Fésjéot and make  respected for one and nll. Either such a Declaration  is nothing, or it means that we are'éll gripped by the  need to establish a pobitive moril code for individuals  and peoples. It is this which earlier speakers asked   PLENARY  us to think upon, and this which we must now reflect  in our acts, The Déclaration is hot something which  is self-sufficient, content to state a charter of human  liberties whose rules can be disregarded to a greater  or lesser extent by particular individuals according  to the circumstances and the need, This was, of  course, the position in other days and the description  could well fit the concessions made by a government  or a polity to strivings towards freedom,
17,13 Today there is no more question of such  calculated action in terms of more or less self-  interestèd benévolence, -  - with all the duties they create for his governors -  comes not merely from the mouths of those seeking  to break their fetters but from all of us together, and  all mankind together is joined in the desperate appeal  which each makes to each, In this rising clamour  which echoes in our very hearts we will not hear only,  tho age-old battering of angry waves against a rock  which crumbles only grudgingly: the sound we long  for for the future is the peaceful murmur of a sea  at long last smooth and sun-kissed, on golden sande.  to which all can come.
17.14 ‘That is the gleam, that the dawn to which  man now seeks to travel. It is towards that shoro  Man's clamour for his rights  MEETINGS
301  XX  that he is already making his way. Let us in Unesco  bé his guide and his support, If 18 our duty, and we  should have the power, to do so, -
17.1% That is why, in making France's contribu-  tion to the homage of the five continents which have  fused their mighty dreams into this rule of life  proferred to the world at large, the President of the  tenth session of the General Conference of Unesco  has taken leave to voice his emotion, his hope and  his faith,
17.16 May the memory of this moment and the  recollection of the centuries which have distilled  it from the sufferings of men waiting long for  brotherhood implant in us the determination to  work unwearyingly to hasten the coming of that con-  cert of hearts and minds, where there are no more  claims and concessions but understanding, help and  love between equals, -
17.17 Then at last the world may he able to live  in peace, and mon, a free and thinking being, will  at last be worthy of the rights he hes so keenly longed  to win,  The meeting rose at 12.30 p.m,