3 December 1958, at 3.45 p,m,  President: Mr. Mohammed EL FASSI (Morocco)  CONTENTS  Third Report of the Administrative Commission (continued):  Financial, legal and related questions . , + + + « 50 0  THIRD REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION (continued):  FINANCIAL, LEGAL AND RELATED QUESTIONS
1. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  The twenty-second plenary meeting is open, 1  call upon Mr, Baugniet, Chairman of the Admini-  strative Commission, to continue his presentation  of the Report, which he began this morning.
2,1 Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French): :  Mr. President, gentlemen, we will turn, if  you permit, to the financial and budgetary questions,  dealt with in document 19 C/73 Rev,, Section B,  the sixth and subsequent paragraphs, The first  question we considered was the scale of contribu-  tions of Member States for 1959-1960, The  Director-General?s representative indicated to the  Commission the changes made in the United Nations  Scale of Assessments since the ninth session of the  General Conference, In the light of the information  supplied to it, the Commission discussed the manner  in which the Unesco scale for 1959-1960 should be  drawn up, - .
2,2 It was generally agreed that, as in the past,  Unesco's scale should be based upon the United  Nations scale, suitably adjusted to take account of  the difference in membership in the two Organiza-  tions, The Commission considered the question  whether the scale should be drawn up in such a way  as to provide for three decimal places, and heard  from the Director; Faneral?s representative the  reasons why the’ Urited Nations Committee on  Contributions had recommended against such a  procedure, The Commission also considered  whether it should fix a minimum percentage for  Unesco contributions and agreed to follow the pro-  ceduré adopted by the General Conference at its  ninth sessfon, whereby the Unesco minimum per-  centage would be the figure resulting from the con-  version of the United Nations minimum into a Unesco  assessment. As a result of this discussion, the  Commission presents to the General Conference  draft resolution No, 1, reproduced in paragraph 11  of its Report (document 10 C/73 Rev.). 1 shall  therefore ask the President to call for comments on
274  paragraphs 6 to 11 of Administrative Commission's  Report, to request the adoption of these paragraphs,  and then to take the vote on resolution No, 1,
3.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French};  Does anyone wish to speak on draft resolution No.i?  We shall put this resolution to the vote,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands,)
3,2 Resolution No, 1 is adopted unanimously,
3,3 1 would now ask you to approve that section of  the Administrative Commission's Report constituted  by paragraphs 6 to {1 inclusive,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
3.4 That section of the Report is adopted unanimously,
4,1 Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French); .  As a result of the adoption of resolution No, 1,  the scale of contributions for 1959-1960 will be that  shown in document 10 C/27, Part I, Annex II, Corri-  gendum I, / ; ;
4.2 During the discussion on the scale of contribu-  tions, the delegation of Korea drew attention to the  very large increase in the percentage for Korea which  the United Nations Committee on Contributions had  , recommended to the General Assembly. The increase  was about 61%, The delegations of the various Mem-  ber States not members of the United Nations pointed  out that they had no opportunity of discussing the  percentages proposed for them by the United Nations  Committee on Contributions. It was suggested that  the Director-General should draw the attention of the  Administrative Committee on Co-ordination to this  matter, For this reason the Commission submits to  the General Conference draft resolution No. 2,  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French}:  Before taking a vote on this resolution, I call upon  the representative of Korea.
6.1 Mr. RIM (Korea):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf  of the Republic of Korea and the Korean delegation,
1 wish to take this opportunity to express our deepest  gratitude to all the Member States and to Unesco for  the constructive assistance and privileges which Unesco   PLENARY  has granted to Korea, through which the Korean Gov-  ernment, and the Korean National Commission for  Unesco have been able to achieve magnificent work for  the progress of science,‘ education and culture,
6.2 Referring to paragraph 13 of the Report, the  Korean delegation is most grateful to the Director-  General and the Administrative Commission for  taking into consideration the Korean proposal on the  contribution scale,
6,3 ‘ The reason for which the Korean delegation  drew the attention of the Administrative Commissfon  to this question is this; Korea is one of the oldest  countries in Asla, with four thousand years of history  and culture behind it; however, in terms of demo-  cracy in thé Occidental sense, Korea is too young to  advancé without your co-operation, Economically  speaking, Korea is one of the underdevelopéd countries,  and is in the process of development, In addition,  since Korea's unexpected disaster of 1950, she has  confronted many crucial problems which have not yet  been solved,
6.4 In spite of these tactors, the increased percen-  tage for Korea is the highest of all Member States  which are not members of United Nations, Mr, Presi-  dent, we are here partners in a joint effort to lay the  foundation for the international understanding and peace  which are the aims of Unesco. The Korean delegation  would therefore appreciate your offer of constructive  co-operation in this matter.
7.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Does any delegate wish to speak on draft resolution  No. 2? We shall then take the vote,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
7.2 The resolution is adopted by 44 votes to none,  with 7 abstentions,
8, Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission, (Translation from the  French): :  We now come to the question of the currency ot.  contributions. - I would remind you that this point-is  dealt with in paragraphs 14 and 15 of the Report, The  representative of the Direétor -General explained that  the resolution proposed by the Director - General, and  recommended by the Executive Board for adoption by  the Conference,‘ followed the same lines as thé resolu-  tion adopted by the ‘General Conference at its ninth  session, Several delegations stressed the importance  of allowing Member Statés to pay their contributions  fn their national currencies; and the Assistant  Director-General statéd that, when the létters of  assessment were dispatched in'1959-1960, special  attention would be drawn to the provisions in the reso-  lution which gave such facilities to Member States, It  is in the light of these considerations, that the Commis-  sion submits draft resolution No. 3 to the General  Conference,
9,1 The'PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Does anyone wish to speak on this draft resolution?  Then we shall take "a vote,  (The voté was taken by a show of hands, )
9.2 Resolution No, 3 is adopted unanimously.
10.1 Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman-of the Ad-  ministrative Commission (Translation from the French:    MEETINGS XXI  Paragraphs 16 and 17 of the Report deal with the  collection of contributions, The Direotôr-General's  representative informed the Commission that the  contributions payable by Uruguay for 1955 and 1956 - +  had been received and that consequently, at the time  of discussion, only three Member Statés - Bolivia,  China and Paraguay - had still failed to pay their  contribution aid were unable to vote at the present  session of the General Conference by virtue of the  provisions of Article IV. C, 8(b) of the Constitution, I  think I am safe in stating that Paraguay has since  paid its contribution and is no longer one of the States  in arrears,
10,2 As regards the special arrangements made by  the Genera) Conference at ifs eighth session for the  payment of arrears of contributions by Czechoslovakia,  Hungary and Poland over a period of years, the Com-  mission noted that all the instalments due up to'‘and  including those for 1958 had been received. It re-  viewed the question of the currency of payment of these  instalments, and ft recommends to the Conference the  adoption of draft’ resolution No. 4 which provides that  the annual payments due for 1959 and 1960 shall be  payable in uccordance with the resolution governing the  payment of contributions to'the 1959-1960 budget,  Draft resolution No, 4 is therefore submitted to the  Conference for its approval,
11,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Has anyone any comments to make on this draft  resolution? We shall therefore put it to the vote,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands, )
11,2 Resolution No, 4 is adopted unanimously,
11,3 Paragraph 18 remains to be adopted,
12,1 Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative. Commission (Translation from the  French)t  Paragraph 18 deals with the Director-General's  Financial Report and the Report of the External  Auditor on the accounts of the Organization for the  financial period erding 31 December 1956,
12,2 The Commission decided to recommend to the  General Conference that these iwo reports be received  and adopted, However, some delegations drew the  Commission's attention to certain transfers which had  taken place from Part M to Part III during the course  of the financial period under consideration, and ex-  pressed reservations with regard to this procedure,  The Conference must therefore decide whether to  receive and adopt the reports for the financial year
13, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Has anyone any comment to make on these {wo  questions? If not, we shall consider the reports  adopted,
14,1 Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French):.  The Commission then considered the Financial  Report and Statements as at 31 December 1957, and  the Report of the External Auditor for the same  inaucial year.
14,2 The representative of the Director-General  informed the Commission of the deuth of Sir Frank Tribe,
275   XXII PLENARY  Comptroller and .Auditor General of the United King-  dom, who had been the External Auditor of Unesco for  the past six years. The Commission associated  itself with the tribute paid to the memory of the late  Sir Frank Tribe,
14.3 The Commission proposes that you approve the  two reports for the financial year 1957.
15. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  No comments? Approved.
16. Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French);  The Commission then considered the Expanded  Programme of Technical Assistance and the Finan -  cial Statement as at 3} December 1956, together  with the Report of the External Auditor. It took note  of this Report and of the resolution adopted by the  Executive Board at its 48th session, and proposes that  you approve the Report and instruct the Director-  General to transmit it to the United Nations.
17. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  No comment? Adopted.
18. Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French):  The Commission also considered the Report of  the External Auditor on the Statement showing the  status of pllocations to Unesco under the Expanded  Programme of Technical Assistance, as at 31 Decem-  ber 1957, It decided to submit to you a resolution  approving this Report and instructing the Director-  General to transmit it to the United Nations. This is  draft resolution No. 5, on which I would ask the Presi-  dent to invite your decision,
19.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Does any delegate wish to speak on draft resolu-  tion No. 5? I shall put it to the vote.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
19.2 Resolution No. 5 is adopted unanimously.
20.1 Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French):  The Commission considered various documents  relating to the Proposed Programme and Budget for
1959-1960, beginning with a report on the results  of the management survey of the Secretariat (docu-  ment 10 C/31):
20,2 : THe Commission paid tribute to the work done  by the experts - Messrs, Frochaux (Switzerland),  Bender (Netherlands) and Emmerich (United States of  America). After an exchange of views on the desira-  bility of establishing a post of Director of Administra-  tion, on the appropriate level of such a post, and on  areas in which the experts' study could be pursued  further, the Commission decided to recommend that  you adopt draft resolution No. 6,
21.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Does anyone wish to speak on this draft resolution?  LI am putting it to the vote.  (The vote was taken bye a show of hands. )
21,2 The resolution is adopted unanimously,
22,1 Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French):  The Commission then took up Part I of the proposed  programme and budget, entitled "General Policy".
22,2 The Commission's discussion centred upon the  problem of reducing documentation of the General  Conference, Although the Commission was unanimous  in agreeing that the number and volume of documents  should be kept to the minimum consistent with effic-  iency, there was considerable opposition to the proposed  suppression of records of the General Conference in  two of its working languages, The Commission  nevertheless decided, by 22 votes to 1, with 9 absten-  tions, to recommend that the summary records of  subsidiary organs of the General Conference should  not be printed in the Records of the General Conference,  The adoption of this recommendation by the General  Conference would involve the suspension of Rules 55  and 59 of its Rules of Procedure, in so far as they  require the distribution of the summary records of  subsidiary organs of the General Conference in all the  working languages employed by the Conference, Such  suspension would need to be approved by a two-thirds  majority, in accordance with Rule 81 of the Rules of  Procedure.
22,3 The Commission also examined i a number of  recommendations made by the Reports Committee  in document 10 C/9 (Part II) regarding the printing  of the reports of Member States. In accepting, by
42 votes to none, with 3 abstentions; the proposal that  these reports be reduced in size by the use of abstracts,  the Commission wished to emphasize that particular  care should be exercised in prepering the abstracts,
22,4 The Commission approved the Executive Board's  recommendation that the General Conference adopt a  rule, for Inclusion in its Rules of Procedure, provid-  ing that estimates of cost would be submitted by the  "Director-General to the General Conference before the  latter approved the preparation and production of new  documents.
22.6 Lastly, the Commission agreed to recommend  to the General Conference that the initial comments  of Member States on the proposed programme and  budget be presented to the Executive Board and the  General Conference in condensed form, their definitive  comments and/or resolutions still being presented in  extenso.
22.6 For this purpose, the Commission proposes  that you adopt draft resolution No. 7. 1 would draw  the President's attention to the fact that paragraphs
1 and 2 of this draft resolution require a two-thirds  majority.
23.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Before taking the vote, may I ask if any delegate  wishes to make any comment on the matter dealt with  in draft resolution No. 7? We shall then put this  draft to the vote, on the understanding that, if it is to  be adopted, the resolution must be approved by a two-  thirds majority of the members voting; this applies  particularly to paragraphs 1 and 2, in accordance  with Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, which 18  worded as follows: "No rule of procedure may be  suspended unless suspension is provided for under an   PLENARY M  existing rule or unless the motion for suspension is  adopted by a two-thirds majority of the Members  present and voting,"  (The vote was taken by a show of hands. )
23.2 The draft is adopted, with the requisite two-  thirds majority, by 63 votes to 2, with 3 abstentions.
24, Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French):  The Commission approved Part I of the proposed  programme and budget,, with the exception of the  question of documentation, by 36 votes to none, with
8 abstentions, I should like the President to submit  paragraph 34 of the Commission's Report for approval.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Does anyone wish to speak on paragraph 34?  Adopted,
26,1 Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French): .  The Commission then considered Part II of the  proposed programme and budget, entitled "General  Administration", It discussed at length the  Director-General 's proposal, in Part III, Chapter tA,  to establish a post of Director of Administration,
26,2 Some delegations opposed the proposal on the  grounds that the post was unnecessary and the addi-  tional administrative costs unwarranted, Others,  while agreeing to the establishment of such a post,  considered that, if the incumbent was to have the  necessary authority, it should be at the Assistant  Director-General level, and that the function could  be performed by one of the existing officials at that  level,
26.3 Yet others were of opinion that the matter  should be studied again by the Executive Board and  the Director-General and that new proposals should  be submitted to the General Conference at its  eleventh session,
26.4 The Assistant Director-General urged the  Commission, in the event of its deciding to recommend  further study by the Executive Board and the Director-  General, to agree in principle to the establishment  of the post as provided in Chapter 1A, and not to  exclude action until the eleventh session of the General  Conference.
26.5 On the proposal of the delegation of India, the  Commission decided, by 38 votes to 9, with 7 absten-  tions, to recommend that the General Conference  adopt draft resolution No, 8
27.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French):  Has any delegate any comments to make on this  draft? 1 shall put it to the vote.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
27.2 The resolution is adopted by 49 votes to 1,  with 2 abstentions.
28.1 Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French):  The Commission decided to adopt Chapter 1  (Office of the Director-General), Chapter 2 (Bureau
277  EETINGS XXn  of Programme and Budget), Chapter 4 (Bureau of  Personnel) and Chapter 5 (Bureau of Conference Plan-  ning and General Services)... _
28,2 With regard to Chapter 3 (Buréau ‘ot the Comp-  troller), the Commission considered a request from  the Comptroller that three clérical posts bé restored,  on the grounds that he would be unable to handle the  increased work loadin 1950-1960 with a staff below  its current level. The Commission decided, by 31  votes to 11, with 5 abstentions, to approve Chapter 3,  with the addition of three clerical posts, together  with an increase of $17,630 in the budget estimates  for that Chapter, it being understood that the budget  ceiling would be unaffected by this change,
28,3 I would therefore ask the President to seek  the approval of the Conference for paragraphs 41 and
42 of the Administrative Commission's Report,
20,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Has anyone any comments to make on paragraphs’
41 and 42 of the Administrative Commission's  Report?
29.2 I call upon the delegate of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics. .
30. - Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  (Translation from the Russian)  Mr. President, I should like to speak on a point of  order. Ido not understand why some paragraphs of  the Administrative Commission's Report are being  put to the vote. Now, for instance, we are being asked  to vote on paragraphs 41 and 42, What exactly will  our vote mean? That we are voting on those parts of  the proposed programme and budget which are referred  to in these paragraphs, or that we confirm the decis-  ions taken by the Administrative’ Commission? This  Commission has already adopted its Report and has  thus approved thé decisions embodied in it. Para-  graphs 41 and 42 give particulars of the number of  votes by which the Commission adopted each particular  Chapter, Then why do we have to vote on them now?  What exactly will our vote mean in legal terms?  That it will alter the results of the vote taken in the  Administrative Commission, or that we are approving  this or that Chapter of the proposed programme and  budget. Or does it mean something else? 1 should  like to have this point made clear, Mr. President.
31, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Before calling upon the Chairman of the Admini-  strative Commission, I feel I should emphasize that  if the General Conference adopts a viewpoint at  variance with that of the Commission, the Conference's  views will prevail, Obviously, the Commission studied  all the questions thoroughly, and voted on then so as  to submit to us the majority's viewpoint, but we here  have the duty of going over each question again and  engaging in a final vote so as to adopt the resolutions  in final form. I now call upon Mr. Baugniet to give  you further explanations.
32,1 Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairinan of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French):  I do not think 1 have anything further to add to the  explanation just given by the President. I believe  it is customary to adopt a report paragraph by   xXxil  paragraph and that that is the meaning of the vote -  or the approval you are being requested to give,
32.2 Accordingly, if there are no other comments,  I ask you to adopt these paragraphs,  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  No comments? Paragraphs 41 and 42 are adopted.
34. Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French):  The Commission considered Part IV, entitled  "Common Services", and decided, by 26 votes to 7,  with 3 abstentions, to approve it, as amended by  document 10 C/5 Rev, Corr. I (paragraph 43 of the  Commission's Report).
35. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Does anyone wish to speak? Paragraph 43 is  adopted,
36, Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French);  The Commission then considered the question of  the Gift Shop, the establishment of which was pro-  posed in document 10 C/5 Rev. After hearing from  the Assistant Director-General an explanation of  the purpose and proposed method of operation of the  Gift Shop, the Commission decided to recommend  that the General Conference adopt draft resolution  No. 9.
37.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French):  Does anyone wish to speak on this draft resolu-  tion? I shall put it to the vote,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
37.2 The resolution 18 adopted unanimously.  “ 38.1 Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairmen of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French);  The Commissloii considered the administration of  the Working Capitel Fund, and in this connexion  first took up the question of living accommodation  for members of the Secretariat. The Aécistant  Director-General explained to the Commission the  Director-General's proposals involving a loan from  a bank up to $800,000 repayable over 20 years; for  a construction project, and uze of the Working Capi-  tal Fund up to $500,000 for direct-loans and up to  $100,000 to make advances against repatriation  grants, The Commission also had before it the  Executive Board's comments and recommendations  on the Director-General's proposals.
38.2 Several delegations were opposed to use of  the Working Capital Fund for granting loans to the  staff, .-
38.3 Others queried the wisdom of embarking upon  the proposed construction project and feared a  repetition of some of the difficulties encountered in  the course of the construction of the Headquarters  building, The Commission heard a statement by  the President of the Staff Association, who stressed  the seriousness of the housing situation,
38.4 In the light of the opposition of most
278  PLENARY MEETINGS  delegations to use of the Working Capital Fund, the  Assistant Director-General informed the Commission  that the Director-General would explore the ponsi-  bility of coming to some arrangement with the  Organization's bankers,
38.5 - The delégation of Switzerland considered that  not all possible solutions to the housing problom had  been fully explored; and hoped that any further study  by the Director-General would not be limited to those
80 far proposed, It presented a draft resolution which,  with certain amendments, was adopted by the Commis-  sion by 35 votes to none, with 3 abstentions, This  draft resolution - No. 10 - is now submitted to the  General Conference for approval,
39,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Does anyone wish to speak on this draft resolution?  No one? I will put it to the vote.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands. )
39.2 The draft resolution is adopted by 54 votes to
1, with 1 abstention,
40.1 Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French}:  The Commission then went into the matter of the  Working Capital Fund, ‘It first examined the question  of the level at which the Working Capital Fund should  be maintained for the period 1959-1060, and heard  additional explanations as to the use that had been  made of the Fund during the past five years. It noted  that, as the result of budget surpluses and the Unesco  Coupon Schemes, additional funds had been made  available to the Organization and had to d large ex-  tent obviatéd the need for drawing upon the Working  Capital Fund to finance budgjtary expenditures,
40,2 After hearing these explanations, some dele-  gations moved that thé amount of the Working Capital  Fund should be reduced to $2,000,000, but, on being  put to the vote; this motion was rejected by 20 votes  to 10, with 15 abstentions,
40.3 The Director-General's proposal to maintain  the Fund at a figure of $3,000,000 was adopted by the  Commission by 30 votes to 9, with 9 abstentions.  The Commission thua proposes that you adopt draft  resolution No. 11), the provisions of which are similar  to those of the resolution presented on the same sub-  ject to the Conference at its 1956 session. Draft  resolution No. 11 is reproduced in paragraph 54 of  the Report before you.
41,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French):  Does anyone wish to speak on this draft resolution?  I shall put it to the vote,  (The vote was taken by a show of handa )
41.2 The resolution is adopted by 50 votes to none,  with 8 abstentions.
42,1 Mr; BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission) (Translation from  the French):  The Commission then took up the draft Appropria-  tion Resolution for 1959-1960. The delegation of  the Union of Soviet Socialist Republica stated that,  in its opinion, the general increase in the budget  was the result of a considerable and unjustified   PLENARY MEETINGS XXII  increase of administrative and common service costs,  and that it accordingly felt cbliged to vote against the  draft resolution under consideration in the Commis-  sion. . :
42,2 The Assistant Director-General assured the  Commission that the wordy "and other relevant reso-  lutions" in paragraph (e) of the'draft resolution per-  mitted the Director-Genera}:to incur obligations with  respect to projects listed in Parts I and III of docu-  ment 10 C/68 Add, He als¢ assured the Commission,  in connexion with paragraph (1), that any balance would  be used for the programme approved by the General  Conference, ‘
42,3 With regard to paragraph (g) of the draft  resolution, the Commission recommends that the  Executive Board and the Director-General be invited  not to make transfers from Part Il to Parte 1, II] and  IV of the programme and budget.
42.4 I would therefore request the President to call  upon the Conference to adopt the Commission's  recommendation reproduced in paragraph 58 and to  adopt draft resolution No. 12,
43, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Does anyone wish to speak on this question? I call  upon the delegate of the ‘Philippines?
44,1 Mr, BOCOBO (Philippines) (Translation from  the Spanish)  Mr. President, the delegation of the Philippines  is pleased to note that in Chapters 4 and 4A of the  proposed programme sums have béen set aside both  fur cultural activities and for the appreciation of  Eastern and Western cultural valués. In these under~  takings we can discern the loftiest mission of our  great Organization, : Mutual underetanding of the reli-  glons and philosophical systems of different parts of  the world can break down the barriers of prejudice  which divide the peoples. -
44.2 . For instance, the whole world should know that  the Korean teaches tolerance, as we can find out for  ourselves in Sura 2, paragraph 22, Likewise, all  men should understand the rationalism of Buddhism,  since, according to the Buddha's teachings, no one  should accept Dharma or the gospel out of mere rever-  ence, but all should put it to the test, juet as gold is  tested by fire. ‘ The basic tenets of Buddhism are not  so very different from those of other religions, For  instance, it teaches that suffering, which is an integral  part of life, is caused by the desire for selfish pleas-  ures, :
44.3 The world should also understand that the  wealth of Vedas and Upanishads of India can give  greater depth to the philosophical concepts on which  the culture of othér parts of the world is based.
44,4 Lastly, the philosophy of Confucius, which  has wielded so strong an influence over the lives of  more than half a billion people, should be more widely  spread. I should like to quote to you a few of Confu-  clus" typical sayings. In one place he says: "Learn-  ing undigested by thought is labour lost. Thought:  unassisted by learning is perilous." In another: "The  superior man thinks of virtue. The mean man thinks  of comfort. The superior man thinks of principles,  but the small man thinks of the favours he can receive".  Elsewhere he says: "Those who only know the truth  do not reach to the heights of those who love it".
44.5 These writings; Mr, President, and these  works on religion and philosophy constitute an imper-  ishable monument to man's spiritual ard intellectual  aspirations, Although they originated in different”  parts of the world; they have all sprung from à common  fund of human thought and feeling, All this heritage  of religion and philosophy should sweep forward Ike  a stream, bearing the riches of moral and spiritual  excellence down to the valleys of culture, so as to  enhance the dignity and nobility of human life,
44,6 It is lamentable that this stream of pure,  fresh and cleansing water should have been dammed  up by the walls of prejudice and intolerance, so that  it has not been able to reach all parts of the earth.  To break down these walls , Mr, President, is the  sacred mission of our great Organization, from which  it must not turn aside.
45.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I thank the Chairman of the Philippines délegation  for the lofty thoughts he has just expressed, Before  putting paragraph 58 and draft resolution No, 12 to  the vote, I should draw attention to a small typing  error in the English text of the draft resolution:  under Part V (Uridistributed Appropriation) the 1959  figure should read $509,167 iristead of $359,167,
45.2 Does anyone object to the adoption of paragraph
58, reporting the Commission's recommendation that  the Executive Board and the Director-Genoral be  invited not to make transfers from Part Il to Parts I,  II! and IV of the programme and budget? Nu objection?  Adopted,
45.3 We shall now proceed to vote on draft resolu-  tion No, 12,  {The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
45.4 The resolution is adopted by 46 votes to 9, with
2 abstentions.
45,6 1 call upon Mr. Adiseshiah, Assistant Director-  General,
45, Mr, ADISESHIAH, Assistant Director-General:  Mr, President, since paragraph 68 of the Report  has been adopted, I wish to state, on behalf of the  Director-General, that this paragraph was set forth  at my request as a recommendation and not as legis-  lation, The Director-General will attempt to carry  it out, bearing in mind any subsequent decisions the  General Conference may take with regard to Part III  of the budget.
47. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 call upon Mr. Baugniet.
48.1 Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French): :  The Commission turned to the question of admini-  strative costs. A point stressed by many delegations  during the discussion of Parts I, III and IV of the  proposed programme and budget, and of the Director-  General's report on the resul!s of the Management  Survey of the Secretariat, was the need for keeping  down the costs of the Organization's administrative  services.
48.2 - In the light of various comments frequently  made in the Comraission, the latter decided to in-  clude the question of adminiatrative costs on its   XXI PLENARY  agenda,. Some delegations considered that administra-  tive costa, should be reduced. Others, while agreeing  that they should be, Kept toa minimum, pointed out  that administrative services were essential for the  proper implementation of the programme and that what  was required was a proper balance between admini-  strative costs ‘and programme operations,
48,3 13 was generally recognized that the. crux of  the question was the, definition of administrative costs.  on the one hand, and of programme operations on the  other; so far,’ there had been no such definition,
48,4 In the light of this discussion, the Commission  draw up draft resolution No. 13, which it submits to  the General Conference for approval,
49.1  Does anyone wish to speak on this draft resolution?  I shall put it to the vote.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
49.2 The resolution is adopted by 54 votes to 3.
50,1 Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French):  The Commission, considered, in the course, of .  several meetings the various legal questions ‘referred  to it, beginning with proposals for amendments to the  Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, sub-  mitted by the Executive Board in implementation of  resolutions adopted by the General Conference at Rs  ninth’ session. . -
60.2 The Commission considered éertain proposed  amendments to Rule 10A, paragraph 2, and to Rule 78  of the Rules of Procedure of tho General Conference,  as well as to Article 3.4 of tué Financial Regulations.  The amendments in estat, € set forth in paragraphs
5 and 7 of document 10 C/38, were rendered necessary  by a décision of the. General Conference at its ninth  session, the effect of which was to alter the time-.-  limits for the tränsniisaion of certain important pro-  posals relating to the proposed programme and bud-  get submitted. to. ‘the General ‘Conference, or to the  budget ceiling proposed by thé DirectorGeneral,  The purpose of the proposed. amendments to Rule 10A,  paragraph 2 of the Rules. ‘of Procedure and to Article
3.4 of the Financial Regulations was to secure co-  ordination of the time-1imits for submission of pro-  posals relating-to the budget ceiling and to amendments  to the proposed programme, on the one hand, and for  the dispatch of the proposed programme and budget  to Member States, on the other. ...
50.3 ‘The proposed amendmerts to Rüle 78 et the  Rules of Proceduré Teflected the desire expressed by  the Executive Board that different time-limits be: ,  establighed for the submission of proposals for fixing  the budget ceiling and of proposals for amending the :  programme, in such a Way that Member States might  know of the various proposals | for’ amending the -  programme before the final date fixed for the submis-  sion of proposals concerning the budget ceiling, The  Commission considered a report of the Legal Commit-  tee .on these proposed amendments, and approved it.  The Commission accordingly recommends that the  General Conference adopt the proposed amendments  to Rules 10A, paragraph 2, and Rule 78 of the Rules  of Procedure of the General Conference, as well as  Article 3,4 of the Financial Regulations. These  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  MEETINGS
280  amendments are set forth in draft resolutions Nos,
14 and 15.
51, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French):  Has anyone eny comments to make on draft  resolution No, 14? ! call upon the delegate of France
52.1 Mr, FRANCOIS (France) {Translation from  the French): .  The French delegation considers that draft reso-  lution No, 14 contains two provisions of basic impor-  tance for the work of National Commissions; but,  in {te opinion; these provisions ave contradictory.
52.2 The first is set forth in paragraph (a), read-  ing "Replace Rule 10, A, paragraph 2, by the follow-  ing ...". The draft resolution extends the time-limit,  which the various States now have for consideration of  the proposed programme and budget drawn up by the  Secretariat and the Executive Board, from two to  three months, We cannot but adopt this paragraph,  as it gives National Commissions more time for their  study of the final proposals.
52,3 1t is customary in the French National Commis-  sion for each of its working committees to give very  close study to the proposals made in each department;  that is a prerogative to which our National Commis-  sion is firmly attached, and there fs no doubt that  this firat provision works out to the advantage of  Member States, But in the amendments to Rule T8,  (page 23 of the English text), we find that the time-  limit for the sending of Member States! proposals  for amendments to tho draft programme involving a  budgetary change, is oxtended from six to nine weeks,
52.4 . We likewise find that States are obliged to  send, three ‘weeks éarlier than before, any proposed  amendment of any importance; and any resolution  entailing a budgetary change, If we consider how  this affects à country such as France, we can see  that, in practice, France will not be able in future  to submit ahy amendments of any kind; for if the  time-lirait is nine weeks and the General Conference  opens early | in November, all proposed améndments  would have to be sent in before 1 September. Now  the text before us’ simply states that we shall receive  documents in any case by 1 August. I do not see how,  between 1 and 31 August, it will be possible for us to  get together any working committee of the National  Commission, for in France - and in many other  countries, too; I think - August is traditionally a  holiday month,
52.5 If we go back to the six-week time-limit, we  shall be ‘able, between 10 and 20 September, to con-  vene working committees and to arrive at conclu-  sions which will thus be of great value; Accordingly,  we wonder {o'what extent the amendments submitted  to us will not have the effect, purely and simply, of  robbing National Commissions of their right to examine  and criticize the Secretariat's proposals. I there-  fore have the honour, on behalf of the French delega-  tion, to request that the six-week time-limit, contained  in the existing Rules and always applied hitherto, be  simply restored.
53,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Does anyone elge wish to apeak on this question?
53.2 Before the vote is taken on the amendment   PLENARY  proposed by the French delegation, I call upon the  Assistant Director- General,
54, Mr. ADISESHIAH, Assistant Director- “General:  Mr. President, I have no comment to make on the  amendment proposed by the delegate of France, who  wishes to change Rule 73.2 from nine weeks to six  weeks; that is for the General Conference to decide.  But I do wish to give you one piece of information on  the statement made by the delegation of France.  Rule 10. A, which you will be adopting in draft resolu-  tion No. 14, states that the draft programme and  budget must be in the hands of Member States and  Associate Member States at least three months before  the opening date of the Conference, If the opening date  of the Conference is 5 November, then three months  before that would mean § August. The draft pro-  gramme and budget should be in the hands of Member  States at least by 5 August, but thie does not mean  that it will be in your hands on 5 August; you will  see in a report which you will receive tomorrow,  that the Director-General is proposing. to see that  you receive the draft programme and budget on 15  June, I therefore want to assure the Conference  that we will not take advantage of this Rule by sending  the draft programme and budget at the last possible  moment. However, having said this, I should go on  to say that the proposal made by the delegation of  France, that we return to the six weeks! rule rather  than that of nine weeks, is something that you will  have to decide on, If you make that change, there  are some consequential changes upon which the  Legal Adviser will advise you after you have made  the decision.
55,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French); .  Is the French delegation satisfied with the Assis-  tant Director-Gèneral's explanations? ... I shall  put to the vote the French delegation's amendment  to the effect that in draft resolution No, 14, (b),  paragraph 2, line 4, the words © 'nine weeks" be  replaced by "six weeks",  (The vote was taken by a show of hands, )
55.2 The amendment is adopted by 34 votes to 19,  with 6 abatentions.
55.3 We shall now vote on the whole resolution.  Mr, Baugniet has asked us to vote on draft resolu-  tions Nos, 14 and 15; but we shall first vote on draft  No. 14, as just amended by us.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
55,4 . The resolution is adopted unanimously.
55.5 I now call upon the Legal Adviser,
56.1 Mr. SABA, Legal Adviser, (Translation from  the French): -  Mr. President, I would draw the attention of the  General Conference. to the fact that, as the Chairman  of the Administrative Commiésion very clearly -  explained to you, the point of the Executive Board's  proposal to fix different time-limits for the submis-  sion of amendments to the proposed programme, on  the one hand, and of proposals for the budget ceiling,  on the other hand, was to enable Mémber States to  submit their various programme proposals before  proposals concerning the total budget ceiling.
281     MEETINGS XXII  increasing the total budget ceiling aré submitted  within a prescribed time-limit, Rule 78 of the Rules  of Procedure operates and it becomes impossible to  give effect to any amendments to the programme that  may be presented by a parficular’ Member State.  Accordingly, do you not feel that it is necessary to  - preserve this difference between the time-limit for  the submission of proposed amendments to the pro-  gramme, on the one hand, and the time-limit for the  presentation of proposals concerning the budget  ceiling, on the other?‘ And since you have reduced the  time-limit for the submission of amendments to the  programme from nine weeks to six, you could perhaps  cut down the time-limit for proposals concerning the  budget ceiling to four or three weeks.
57, ‘The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  In fact, the Legal Adviser is proposing a new  amendment to the draft resolution.
68, Mr, SABA, Legal Adviser, (Translation from  the French);  Paragraph 5 of the new Rule 78 is the one In ques-  tion, Mr, President: "Proposals concerning the  budget ceiling". If the General Conference wishes to  adhere to the general principle of the proposal made  by the Executive Board, the main point of which is  that different time-limits be established to enable  proposals conéerning programme amendments to be  borne in mind when the budget ceiling is being fixed,  then I think it necessary to substitute the words "three  weeks" or "four weeks" for "six weeks" in paragraph
59, ‘The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Before putting this amendment to the vote, I shall ask  the Chairman of the Administrative Commission for  his opinion,
60.1 Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French):  Mr. President, tellow delegates, I have a feeling  that we are merely improvising, ‘ And improvisation  may lead us into error and to'a result quite the’ :  opposite of what was inténdéd, ‘I would therefore ask  the Conference to reflect on this. “question érid aldo to  take into consideration the proposals drawn up by the  Joint Meeting of the Programme and Administrative  Commissions, on the basis of which a resolution 1s  to be subrnitted to the General Conféerénce tomorrow,  It embodies a whole series of proposals concerning’  the presentation of the budget, its communication to  Member States, and the recefpt of amendments to both  the proposed programme and the proposed budgêt  ceiling, If you take a definite décision on this question  today, without due regard td thé’ consequences of the  amendment adopted, you run thé risk of not being able  to give effect to the proposal which the Joint Commis-  sions are going té submit to you tomorrow, although  it reflects the wishes of all the delegations, which  do in fact want to have more time,
60.2 The proposal to bè submitted to you tomorrow  provides for "timing" which will enable an exchange  of views to take place between the Director-General,  Member States and National Commissions, both as  regards the approval of amendments to the proposed   XX  programme and budget - and as regards the fixing of  the budget ceiling; it also contains a recommendation  to the effect that the Conference should perhaps be  held somewhat later than 5 November, to allow of a  further extension of the time-limit Member States  wish to have in order to keep each other informed of  thése various amendments,
60,3 All the proposals before you today. are based  on the time-limits laid down in the draft resolution  now submitted to you for approval. IU you alter these  time-limits, you run the risk of being unable to  implement the proposal considered by the Joint Meet-  ing of the Programme and Administrative Commis-  sions.
61. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  - J call upon the delegate of the United Arab Republic,
62.1 Mr, FIKRY (United Arab Republic)(Translation  from the French):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, I do not think -  that I have much to add to what has just been said by  the Chairman of the Administrative Commission, But  I see that the vote we have just taken on draft resolu-  tion No, 14 is being called in question. :::-,-
62,2 May I make a proposal designed to allay the  fears of the French and other delegations, bearing in  mind the promise just made by the Assistant Director-  General? A moment ago he promised that the pro-  posed programme and budget would be submitted  not on 5 August, but on § July, The draft resolution  to be submitted tomorrow even gives the date of
15 June, Now this is the proposal I should like to  make: instead of reducing the time-limit provided for  in the new Rule 78, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Pro-  cedure, from nine weeks to six, let us amend para-  grarh (a) of the draft resolution, by changing the time-  limit from three to four months, since the Assistant  Director-General promised just now that the proposed  programme would be submitted to Member States  four months before the opening of the General Confer-  ence,
63.1  In fact we now have several amendments before us.  To begin with; when the Assistant Director-General  said that the proposed prograthme could be sent out  on 15 June, I asked the French delegation for its  opinion; and it maintained its views that à vote should  be taken, :We proceeded to this vote, which resulted  in a majority in fayour of the French amendment,  Accordingly, despite Mr, Baugniet's. explanations, I  do not think we have to revert to that question, -All  that we have to do now ie to tie in what has been .  decided with the very sensible proposal just made by  the Legal Adviser to the effect that the words "four  weeks" should be substituted for "six weeks" in para-  graph 5 of the new Rule 78. We must now vote on a  procedural motion in order to decide whether you  wish to go back on your initial vote and start the  discussion ‘afresh, .
63.2 To begin with, then, I put to the vote a pro-  cedurel motion: do you wish to go back on the vote  ‘which has been taken? . .  (The vote was taken by a show of hands. y
63.3 ‘The amendment of the French delegation is  maintained by 25 votes to 13, with 21 abstentions.  - The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
63.4 I call upon the delegate of Japan,
64. Mr, MATSUI (Japan) (Translation from the  French): .  Mr, President, tellow delegatés, we have taken a  vote and 1 do riot think we can go back on it; The  French delegation asked for the time-limit specified  in paragraph 2 of the new Rule 78 to be reduced from  nine to six weeks, which means restoring the status -  quo; and this has been adopted, The Legal Adviser  now proposes very logically, that we should also  shorten the six-week time-limit to four or three |  weeks, When the Joint Meeting of the Programme and  Administrative Commissions was convened, we, also,  thought it was logical to adopt that procedure. How-  ever, if the time-limit is shortened too much; the  delegations of very distant countries such as Japan and  some of the Latin-American States, will have no  knowledge of all the proposals submitted before they  arrive at the General Conference, So I think that, as  we have taken'a decision to maintain the status quo  (i.e. a time-limit of six weeks in the first case),  we should not alter the other time-limit either.
65,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French);  Does anyone else wish to speak? - Does anyone wish  to sponsor the proposal made by the Legal Adviser; so  that it can be put to the vote? - The delegate of Iraq,  Is there any seconder? No one? Then the status quo  with regard to the six-week time-limit mentioned in  paragraph 6 is maintained.
65.2 ‘We now turn to draft resolution No. 15, which
1 shall put to the vote.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands,)
65,3 The resolution is adopted by 50 votes, none  against, with one abstention,
65,4 Mr, Baugniet, would you please proceed.
66.1 Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French): ts  The Commission examined the draft ‘arnendments  to the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference and the Financial Regulations, on  the basis of proposals submitted to it by the Executive  Board, The Commission noted that the Legal Commit-  tee had réported that thé amendments to Article IV, -  paragraph 8(a) of the Constitution, as approved by  the Executive Board, had been communicated to  Member States within thé time-limits stipulated in  Article XIII of the Constitution, and that the Legal  Committée further considered that this amendment did  not involve fundamental alterations in the aims of the  Organization or new obligations for the Member States  and would therefore become effective upon receiving  the approval of the General Conference by a two-  thirds majority. So
66.2 - The Commission approved, and. recommends  that the General Conference -adopt, the proposed  amendment to Article IV ; paragraph 8(a) of the  Constitution, as set forth in document 10 C/40, It  elso approved and recommends with only one vote  against as regardé sub-paragraph'1(f) and oné absten-  tion as regards sub-paragraph 2(i), that the General  Conference adopt the revised Rule 81 of its Rules  of Procedure, with the drafting change introduced by  the Legal Committee,   PLENARY MEETINGS
66,3 The Commission approved the proposed new  paragraph 3 of Article 14 of the Financial Regulations,  with a consequential drafting change introduced by the  Legal Committee, and recommends its adoption by  the General Conference, This means that the General  Conference has to vote on draft resolutions Nos. 16,
17 and 18, . I would remind delegates that draft  resolution No. 16 requires a two-thirds majority for  its adoption,
67,1 .-The PRESIDENT (Trenslation from the French):  Does anyone wish to speak on draft resolution No.
167 I shall put it to vote on the understanding, as the  Chairman of the Administrative Commission has just  emphasized, that a {two-thirds majority is required  for its adoption.  (Thé vote was taken by a show of hands. )
67, 2 The resolution is adopted unariimously,
67.3 We shall now take a vote on draft resolution  No. 17.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
67,4 The resolution is adopted unanimously.
67,5 1 shall now put resolution No, 18 to the vote.  ‘(The vote was takén by a show of hands.)
67.6 The resolution is adopted unanimously,
67,7 The Conference must also vote on paragraph 71  of the Report, ‘I there is no objection, I take it that  this paragraph is adopted,
67,8 Mr. Baugniet, please continue,
68,1 Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French): -  Mr. President, we iow ‘pass ‘to staît questions,
68,2 The first question which the Comniission dis-  cussed cornes up at each session of the General Con-  ference; as it'is one of the most iniportant questions  for this Organization; . That ls the question of geogra-  phical distribution; - Thé Commission considered the  Director-Gerieräl's report on the measures he had  taken in implementation of resolution 28 adopted by  the General Conference at {ts ninth’ session,
68,3 While most delegations recognized that further  progress had been made towards achieving better  geographical distribution, it was generally agreed that  the situation was still far from satistactory,
68.4 Draft resolution No. 19, which was adopted by  the Commission by 26 votes to 6, with 5 abstentions,  is now submitted to you for approval.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I first call upon the delegate of India.
70,1 Mr. HUSAIN (india):  Mr. President; my delegation has sought permis-  sion to take the floor, because the resolution on'geo-  graphical distribution now before the Conference was  proposed in the Administrative Commission by the  Indian delegation together with five other delegations,  At the time of the discussion of this resolution;  unfortunately ; not even half thé members of the Com-  mission were present; because at the samè time the  election of the Director-General was in progress.  My delegation theréforé feels that it is their duty to -  place before the Conférence the reasons which prompted   six delegations to propose this resolution; and to  request the delegations who were absent on that
283  XXII  occasion to agree to join'us in passing this resolution.
70.2 - The second reason for my delegation taking  the floor is to expléin dur position with Fegard to the  changes which have béén made in’ this resolution. Two  additions wére madé, both ‘of which are weléomié; but,  unfortunately, there were dlso two'deletions,
710,3 The Adminigtrétiyé Cominleston te  clause of the draft resolution (document to c/ Mean  which authorized the Director-Genéral to include  in the point system posts hitherto conatdéred "non-  geographical, except that they should count at half-  value, It wad a pity that this clause was deleted: ‘ It  was not a new Idea; ’ in fact, this suggestion first  originated in the Adrathlatrative Commission and it  was recoriiménded to the Executive Board by the  Director-General, The main’ feéagon why the Indian  delegation suggésted that the redominends ition of the  Director-General bè aéce ted | hi! ‘thé féet ‘that ‘about
8 ar ally by natlonals of  d Kingdom; Spain  and the Union a Soblet Sôcialist a RepDLH and of  these, the first théèe are already highly’ oi er-  represented, ‘As against this, isto bé notéd that  in the United Nations thé lariguäge staff ¢omprises 42  different nationallties,’ ‘We see io réason why what has  been achieved in the United Nattona shéuld not be done  in Unesco, and if that {s not done, ttiese posts should  in all fairness be included in the point’ system: In  order to save thé time of the’ Conference, my delegation  is not suggesting an‘smendment to the resolution’  before us, but we would like earnestly to urge the  Director-General to examiné what can be done to extend  the distribution of these posts, falling which we shall  take up the matter at the next Genèral Conference;
70,4 The second deletion made by the Administrative  Commission, Mr.’ President; were the words in clause  (b) asking the Director-General to’ examine variois  suggestions made during this session tor reducing the  over- representation’ ot certain countries in the Secre-  tariat,’ The clause as it now stands asks the Director-  General to examiñe the suggeations } ‘foi increasing the  representation of countries at présent unrepresented  or under- -represented. The deletion, a the view of my  delegation and other co-spoñsôrs” ‘of the resolution, was  entirely’ Logical, bécausé these are two aides to the  time of the Cdiferehce ny  Seripeion is Le proposing  att is  necessary to clarify the issues involved and to give a  clear directive to the Director- General as to how he  should act ‘uñdér’ the’ proposed resolutléd,
70.6 Certain delegations ‘voted against this résolution  in the Administrative Commission, because they re-  gard'geographical distribution as of secondary Impor-  tance =‘onè of the inany factors and not the most  important one; '{or them the main criteria for sélection  are meflt and the nécesaity. of securing the highest  standards of compétence, To acéept this is to admit  that staff of such qualifications can be recruited only  in certdin parts of the world, un idea which has been  disproved by fact. On no account, Mr. President,  must the Secretariat lay itself open to the charge. of  being a stronghold of colonialism.   XXII PLENARY
70.6 . In the minds of those seeking better geographi-  cal representation, the motivating {dea is that the.  Unesco Secretariat, as an international Secretariat,  should be à faithful reflection of the international  Organization it servés. The principle of geographi-  cal distribution is not that of grabbing a few posts  here end’ there, but that the Secretariat should be  enriched by the experience, the background, the … .  culture and the distinctive’ pe sychological and emotional  responses which each Member nation could furnish,  Every, Member, State should ‘have the satisfaction of  making a contribution of its own genius to the evolu-  tion of que Organization. . Indeed, it was in order to  safeguard this principle of universality that provision  was made, tor staff members to return to their coun-  tries on home leave € every few years, |
70.7 It ig'not the intention of the delegations.  interested in this question to blame those responsible  for recruitment, The present situation has arisen  as a result of the recent addition of new Members and  the rapid initial recruitment. when Unesco was esta-  blished, Hut there is no justification now, Mr;  President, | tor perpetuating the privileged position of  a few pip The Director-General has already  we cour to per him more precise and specific guid-  ance than has béen giyen by the Constitution, so that  it would be easler for him to ensure prompt and  broad application of the principle ot geographical  distribution,
70.8 We are ali aware ‘that ‘the present. position is  highly unsatisfactory. For example, it has on -  _ several occasions been pointed. out that in the past  Western Europe has had an inordinately predominant  share of the posts of all grades, ‘According to.  documient 10 C/32, against the target points. of 253,  six countries in Western Europe are in fact enjoying
791 points, well over three times as many as they  are entitled to. ‘Among them they hold at present .
155, out of a total of 333 geographical posts, or over
46 per cent of thé posts. . One of these countries has  five times ag many as it should have. Even more  objectionable; these few highly over-repreaented  countries belong to. one ‘cultural region, My delega-  tion finds it difficult to justify. this on grounds of  efficiency and technical competence, _ Surely, the rest  of the’ world, comprising 75 Member States, is not  so devoid of talent that this position cannot be recti-  fled.
70.9 In this connexion, what has caused us further  concern 1 that fact that amorig these six West  European countries, although all have been heavily  over- represented during the last five years, two have  had à considerable increase in the number of their  appointments and, in the case ‘of, the third, the number  of non- -géographicel posts has doubled. It would  ‘appear to us that there is little justification for this  further increase, . |
70,10 It also appears, that’ such good luck does not  come thé way. of Asian end African countries. A very  large number of countries of Asia and Africa, where  two-thirds of the world's population lives, are either  ME
284  ETINGS  under-represented or not represented at all fifteen  of them have no representation at all, and six are  under-represented; only seven are "in balance", The  poaition of countries in Eastern Europe and of some in  Latin America is also highly unsatisfactory. This is  regrettable not only from the point of view of the  countries concerned, but algo for Unesco, In view of  our present efforts to make the project of Mutual  Appreciation of Eastern and Western Cultural Values  successful,
70.11 Now, what has the, Director- -General done, and  what are we asking him to do In the resolution now  before us? - In accordance with the resolution on the  subject passed at the ninth session, thé Director-  General was asked "to continue his efforts to improve  the standards of competence and the geographical .  distribution of the Secretariat, in particular by apply-  ing a less rigid quota system for Member countries’  where it may have unduly restrictive implications for  small contributor countries", The Director-General  has not confinéd himself to the task of applying à less  rigid quota system to assist small countries; he has  gone much further and revised the scale’ of points for  higher posts by making large additions to the previous  scale, As it was not clear on what basis thie had been  done and why the increase was so étéep, my delegation  inquired and the Director-General informed the.  Administrative Commission that the new scale was  arbitrarily fixed,. It is felt by my delegation and others  co-sponsoring this resolution that this drastic change  is uncalled fer, and the incréase over the previous  scale is excessive. The new scale of points creates  disparities between various posts, more than is justi-  tied by fact, The revised scale works to the disad-  vantage of the middle countries, which were previously  under -represented and now appear to be over-  represented, We feel, therefore, that the revised scale  needs to be modified and a mors moderate revision  made of the previous scale, We have also heard that  the World Health Organization regards this system as  unwise, What should be aimed at is a more flexible  system which would help the Members contributing  least, and would also not work against any particular  group of Members,
70.12 Given a fairer system of assessing the en-  titlement of Member States, the next question is how  better representation can be organized for unrepresented  and under- -represented countries, The Director-  General has expréssed the view that too few posts  become vacant each year to allow for spectacular  changes in geographical distribution. . This would  suggest that the first essential is fo make more posts  available by adoptiñg measures to reduce over-  representation of certain countries and by accelerating  the turnover, ‘This is no easy matter, because the  Director-General has told us that among the 396 posts,
68. 7% of the staff holds indeterminate contracts.:  This, and the fact that more than half the total number  of posts are held by six countries, coupled with the  continuance of the grant of indeterminate contracts,  means "freezing" the present unsatisfactory situation  with very little hope of improvement so long as our  generation lasts. . Yet no one has suggested voluntary  retirement with compensation for those holding  indeterminate contracts, no cne has suggested that  promotion should not be given to those holding indeter-  minate contracts. But what can be done, and we   PLENARY  earnestly suggest this to the Director-General, is  that fixed-term contracts of thosé from over-  represented countries should not normally be renewed  and no riew indeterminate ¢ontracts should be given  to existing staff from over-represented countries  until such time as better geographical distribution is  achleved. When the Administrativo Commission.  considered the amendment of Staff Regulations 4, 5 and
4,5.1, my delegation, together with the delegations’  of Iran and Iraq, suggested for this reason that we  should authorize the Director-General not to give  indeterminate contracts to persons belonging to  countries which are already over-represented till  such time as better geographical distribution pre-  vails in the Secretariat.” This was a necessary sug-  gestion because, by amending Staff Regulation 4:5,  we gave authority to the Director-General initially  to give indeterminate contracts to Principal Officer  and Director category staff; a power which he did  not have before, Thereby we enlarged his powers  and the scopé for giving indeterminate contracts,  while for purposes of improving geographical distri-  bution, the acute néed is for reducing the scope of  indeterminate contracts, .In resolution V; 2, 42 quoted  in thé preamble of the resolution heforé us; the  Director-General was requésted, under Regulation
4.6,1, not to make Initial appointments from over-  represented countries; unless it was in the interest  of efficient administration of the Secretariat, * M  delegation would like to make the further positive  suggestion that when the Director-General {8 com-  pelled in thé interest of efficiency to make outside  appointments from over-represented countries;  they should be made on a fixed-term basis and not  on an indeterminate basis, We suggest, further; *  that in filling vacancies priority should be given to  unrepresented or under-represented countries; and  also that in cases of promotion priority should be  given to nationals of under-represented countries.  The delegations opposing these suggestions in the  Administrative Commission talked much, in this  connexion, of injustice and danger to the efficlericy -  of the Organtzatiéii ‘Now, I ésk you, fellow delegates,  who is being unjustly treated, the six highly over-  represented West Europeän'éountriés or the other -  seventy-five Members of this Organization, or the  fifty Member States who do hot hold a single impor-  tant post in this Organization? Can we talk of in-  justice to those who should never have been there in  the first instanée, and yet have enjoyed unmerited  fruit for eleven years? And since 69% of the total  staff hold indeterminaté contracts; about which  nothing can be done, we ara therefore talking of only  a small part of thé remaining one-third or one-  fourth of the total &taff, I dk you, then, how is the  efficiency of the Organization affected? ‘ °
70.13 On many occasions'during this session,  Mr. President, and during previous sessions, we  have beeñ told by certain delegations to follow the  UN practice in this that and the other matter. It  would therefore be well to ask what the UN has done  in this regard, - At its 11th session, the General  Assembly passed a resolution which recommended:  "that in future, in appointments to the staff of the  UN Secretariat at all levels, appropriate preference  be given to nationalities which form a disproportion-  ately small part of the Secretariat". The Secretary-  MEETINGS
285  XXII  General of the United Nations has taken specific  action both before and after this resolution was  passed, For example, he stated before the General  Assembly that: "When a candidate of an under-  represented nationality met the reqiirements for a  vacancy and appeared to be the best available, the  Office of Personnel took certain procedural short cuts,  such as reducing the périod for which a vacancy was  posted or even dispensing with the posting of a  vacancy altogether", He also informed the General  Assembly that: "Contracts were carefully watched  and a candidate who was the best available, but came  from a country already well represented in the  Secretariat; generally received a fixed-term contract,  the intention being that during that term a successor  from a less well-represented country should be found.  As the report showed; {two-thirds of the appointments  made in the United Nations during 1955-1956 were  fixed-term contracts, " ;
70,14 Indeed, since then the recruitment policy has  been one of fixed-term contracts rather.than pérman-  ent appointments; in fact the system of secondment  from national civil services on a fixed-term basis has  been evolved; And yet no one in the United Nations  has raised the question of injustice and danger to the  efficiency of the Secretariat, The Indian delegation  would theréfore like to suggest that this United Nations  practice be followed in Unesco, : We would like to  suggest that the delegations who voted against this  resolution in the Administrative Commission should  join us in the support of the United Nations practice  in this regard. -
70.156  of a group of countries, there are {vo anomalies which  "my delegation would like to bring to the notice of the  Conference, The Republic of China, which has paid  only a token of ité éontribution during the last eleven  years and is not entitled to move than the minimum  target points, is enjoying three times as many as are  justified. The second ¢ase is that of the Union of  South Africa, which haa ceased to be a member but  is nevertheless enjoying 18 posts, including a high-  level post.’ It is wrong, in principle, that non-  Member Statés should be represented ât'the expense  of Member States, - In the case of the Union of South  Africa it ts particularly unfortunate, because the  Union of South Africa is well known to be opposed to  the Universal Declaration of Human Pights, the  anniversary of which we celebrate today, and to the  {deals of Unesco. Indeed, for the last eleven years  it hds defied the resolutions pagsed by the General  Assembly on the question of racial discrimination,  We hope that thése two anomalies will be removed  as soon us practicable,
70.16 Al thése suggestions, Mr, Président, my  delegation’submits for thé approval of the Conference,  so that the Director-General, under the operative  part of the resolution before us, may carefully examine  them for necessary action,’
70.17 . In conclusion, it is most important that  geographical répresentation should spread at a faster  rate than it has in the past, During the last five  years {t has increased from 22 to 28 countries, but  it is to be hoped that during the next five years double  that number will be represented. The position in‘  regard to Asian and African countries 13 also very  unsatisfactory. In implementing this resolution the  In addition to the question of over- représentation   XXII  Director-General should thérefore be requested to  take immediate steps to give representation to Member  States at ‘présent not represented or under-represented,  and more particularly to countries of Asia and Africa.  We cannot stress too strongly the fact that the objec-  tives of Uriésço cannot be achieved In a satisfactory  manner unless certain imiportänt regions and cultures  of the world are represented here in the Secretariat.  It is not only the findnolal contribution, but also the  ancient cultural heritage und the contribution of large  segraents of humanity which are important for bringing  about better understanding in the world, especially  between the East and the West. - :  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I thank the delegate of India for his extremely  interesting statément:. It contains some very apt  suggestions; these will certainly be of great help to  the Director-General in applying the resolution, which,  I trust, will be adopted in a moment, Before putting  it to the vote, 1 call upon the delegate of China.
72.1 Mr, CHEN Yuan (China):  Mr. President, fellow delegatés, the delegate of  India went out of hia way to attack China in the Admini-  strative Commission, He again went out of his way to  attack us just now: There is not the slightest justifi-  cation for this, What are thé facta? -
72.2 There are four ‘members of the Secretariat who  are of Chinese nationality, In fact, there can be sald  to be, at ‘most; only three and a half, as one of the four  was born British, married French, and does not hold  a Chinese passport, How can it be claimed that any  country with only three and a halt members, or even  four members, is over-represented?
72,3 According to thé ¢ritérion laid down in docu-  ment 10 C/32, paragraph 10 (d), "a Member State with  only two nationals in the Secretariat 1s regarded as  "in balance! even if the point value of the posts  exceeds the target’: ‘Then, even if wé suppose there  was over: representation for China; the oyer-} -  representation could, not bé niore than two or one and  a half. -I cannot see, therefore, any justification for .  the Indian delegate singling out riy country and “stating  that the situation fs abnormal; I do nof undérstand by  what sort of calculation the Indian delegate arrived at  the conclusion that China tilled three times its. :  entitlement of posts. , If a Member, State with two  nationals is regérded as "in balance", how.can four  members be, considered three times its entitlement? -  But the arithmetic: of the Indian delegate is indeed  beyond the comprehension of the ordinary. intelligence.  He said in the Administrative Conimission that China  paid only a token 4 per cent of its contribution. . But  China made à token payment of $50,000 both in 1956  and 1957, and increased its token payment to $60,000  in 1958, By whatever éalculation you may use, you -  cannot arrive at the figure of 4 pèr cent of its contri-  butiori. And $60, 000 is twelve, times the minimum  contribution of $4,000 which some Member States con-  tribute, The minimum target in the table is eight  points, Therefore, if there were over -representation  for China, it could only be very slight. . .
72.4: What surpriged us most was the Indian dele-  date's statement that the situation was inequitable and  should be rectified. - Did he advocate that members of  the Secretariat who have served the Organization
286  PLENARY MEETINGS  loyally, faithfully, competently, for eight years or  more, should be sacked merely on the ground of  geographical over-representation. It would be a sad  day for Unesco, indeed, if auch a policy were to be  adopted,  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 call upon the delegate of the United States of  America,
74,1 Mr. RABB (United States of America):  Mr. President, the delegate of India has made a  very forceful and interesting arguinent and there is  much in what he says, but there are aspects of this  question that deserve analysis, Moreover, I feel that  I can venture to speak with perhaps more freedom than  others, since my own country ls 6lassed among.those  which are under-represented fn Unesco's Secretariat.  The views of my Government are wall known, and were  stated fully in the Administrative’ Commission, -  Briefly, my Government believes that definite pro--  gress towards a more equitable geographical distri-  bution of staff has béen made during the two years  which have passed since the ninth session of the  General Conference, We hope; and we are confident  that further progress will be made; we agree that  the principle of geographical distribution is an  important one; we believe that a Secretariat composed  broadly of staff membérs from many lands is of  great importance to Unesco; that sich & Secretariat  will be an enriched dne, capable of reflecting in its  work the best from. many countries, in terms of à -  broadened knowledge ; expérience and points of view.  However, while’ geographical distribution in the matter  of posts is a very important aspect of this, and cannot  be minimized, examination will reveal that it ‘still is one  among other factors poh which the competence and  vigour of thé Secretariat and of Unesco itself depends.  In my opinion, the basic and" éverruling: principle  here must be crie that ensures that any person,  regardless of his ‘origins, be givén equal consideration.  This is the principle of equality of opportunity. : The  basic standard of selection should be merit, that is  to say, integrity, efficiency and technical competence.  Geographica distribution is an external standard, .  rising from ah accident of birth; merit goes to the  heart of the problem 4 the intrinsic, enduring work  of the individual.
74.2. 1 feel that the Director Goneral can be relied  on to make further progress in improving the geo-  graphical distribution of posts Ini the Secretariat,  However; I am sure that most delégates here, upon  reflection, will agree that this progress will probably  be slower than most of us would like, and that, as a  matter of wisdom, it should be achieved iri a careful  and thoughtful manner. This calls for restraint and  patience on the pari of all concerned, - Moreover, I  do not think it wise that efforts to improve the geo-  graphical distribution of posts in the Secretariat  should be pressed to the - point ‘of denying the legiti-  mate expectations of existing staff for promotion  on the basis of merit," Wé must always remember  that we have a means and an end; - the end is  Unesco and its noble purposes, thé means is  the Secretariat: The best way to ensure an  effective means to achieve this erid is to see to it that  the mest competent people are available for Unesco.  ERATE   PLENARY MEETINGS
74,3 In conclusion, 1 would like to express the hope  that we can reconcile both these factors: equality of  opportunity and geographical distribution, for what  we need in the end is a vigorous, vital Unesco.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon the delegate of the United Kingdom,
76,1 Sir Edward BOYLE (United Kingdom); :  Mr, President, haying listened to a most helpful  speech from the representative of the United States  who rightly said that his own country was slightly  under-represented in Unesco, I hope the Conference  will forgive me if I say a few words on behalf of my  country which is, admittedly, distinctly over-  represented on the Secretariat,
76.2 May I say that this matter does give us, in  Britain, quite a good deal of concern, We are fully -  aware of the situation, and for that reason, the British  delegation will not vote on this resolution but will  abstain, - I would like to make one or two comments on  the very thoughtful speech which we have heard from  the representative of India. I think 14 was the. .  Nineteenth century British stateman, John Bright,  who once said that, in his view, the British Empire was  a vast system of outdoor relief for the upper classes.  Whether that was 50 or not, may I make it quite plain  that we in Britain have no desire whatever that the  Specialized Agencies in the United Nations should  become a system of outdoor relief for supernumerary  British officials, : But there are one or two specific  points which I would like to make in this context.
76.3 1 feel that the historical origins of Unesco have  led, ao those of other organizations did inevitably  lead, to the over-representation of certain Member  States of which the United Kingdom was one. After  all, Unesco ls today still a yong organization; in  the total history of man fifteen years is a rather short  time, Inevitably, I think, the historical origins of  these organizations show themselves in the way that  the staff is distributed, |; . :
76,4 The second point is that we in ‘Britain entirely  agree with the principle of fairer geographical  representation . All we would say, as has already  beer said this evening, is that in moving towards more  equitable geographical representation, we should not  allow ourselves to commit any gross unfairness to  faithful servants of this Organization, who have in  some cases devoted their. lives and their caréers. to  the service of Unesco. : Secondly; while I enticely  recognize what the representative of India sald - there  must be very many people in very many parte of the  world who can contribute to the efficiency of  Organization - I would plead that we should nit He  too many perfectly efficient staff at once, in tder to  make place for, different staff, The process (f .  obtaining broader and fairer geographical disiribution  should be a gradual one, and we should not atiempt  to do it too rapidly. Of course this task must, in  time, be implemented, but we must recognizt it as  a process which cannot be hurried beyond a éertain  point without our running great risks, both in terms of  fairness to human beings and also in terms of thé  efficiency of the Organization. - For my part, I have  very great confidence in the fairness of the Directar-  General and his immediate advisers in this matter.  I thought the representative of India made certain
287  xXil  specific points about fixed-term contracté which  were well worth considering and which’rio doubt will  be considered by the Executive Board and the appro-  priate bodies of the Organization. But may 1 say  that we fully recognize in Britain that we are over-  represented at the present ‘time, that we do want to  achieve a fairer geographical distribution of posts,  and the only reservations we make are that we should  not attempt this at such a rate as to be guilty of  unfairness to individuals or impair the smooth working  of Unesco.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon the delegate of Brazil,
78,41 Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  (Translation from the French): .  Mr. President, fellow delegates, the problem of  fair geographical distribution in a Secretariat such  as Unesco's inevitably each year, gives rise either  to exaggerated hopes or to unreasonable disappoint-  ment,
78,2 ..By its very nature, the problem is an  extremely complex one, centering as it doéa’ around  human beings and not objects. : And when we have to  do with human beings surrounded by other human  beings - for an official dees not work cut off from  his fellows -'we cannot act hastily or ruthlessly.  We need progressive measures, measures which are  perforce slow and take into account not only the  interests of nations, but also the equally sacred  interests of individuals, women and children - in  short, the official's whole family,
78.3 I speak as the representative of a ‘country  which, though always under- -represented in the :  Organization, has been keeping a close watch for  over ten years on the slow but continuous efforts of  successive administrations to improye the situation  and which, having daily experience of the difficulties  of this problem, is well aware that wo cannot expect  too much of a resolution or ask too mich of &  Director-General, ‘The’ adjustment will necessarily  be progressive and slow, and the historical circum-  stances under, which Uneséo came into being in  England and then rapidly’ settled down in France are  sufficient to account for that serious initial lack of  balance in the way. already desciibed,
78.4 But it was not: to dwell’on these points; with  which you are all énly too familiar, that I have taken  the floor.. It is becauäè there 1s ‘another aspect of  the problem which I feel should te conisidered by the  Conference and by the Diréctor-tieneral, True  enough, it will be a long time bel’ ore ‘we can do away  with this inequality of represéntition;. but we can  make an effort; and ask the Dirt 1etof-General and  particularly the Secretariat to do the same -'an ::  effort whic will enable us ail; ‘ind especially those  of us who regard ourselves de least well represented  on the Organization, not to feel frustrated, for the  very good reason that the officials of other countries  serving in the Secretariat will ‘conaider themselves  an representatives, not of their own particular  countries, but of this whole family of nations,
76.5 tis all the same to me to know that the -  interests of Latin America ace ably defended by  senior Indian officials, and I hope that there are  senior Latin-American officials in the Organization   XX1 PLENARY  who will always be equally zealous in upholding the  interests of Asia, I feel that the Secretariat should  be increasingly linked to its international origins,  and that the hope should be increasingly cherished  that each of its members will come more and mare to  feel himself or herself as the representative, not of  a particular country or region within the Secretariat,  but of the community of the Organization's Member  States, all equally responsible for discharging ‘our  duties and realizing our hopes. This; I feel, 1s the  purport of the assurances that the Director-(ieneral  and the Secretariat can give this Conference, pending  mnore satisfactory geographical representation,  which can be brought about only with the passage of  time.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon the delegate of the Union « Soviet  Socialist Republics.
80.1 Mr, ZHUKOV (Unton of Soviet Soolalist  Republics) (Translation from the Rusiian):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, JL think that the  representative of India has given a’ eufficieritly clear  and concrete demonstration of the importance of the  problem of fair geographical distribution. I myself  can only endorse sll that he has said, , But I should  also like to emphasize how important the principle  of fair geographical distribution is; particularly for  our Organization, I consider in fact that that -  principle - or, to be more precise, the practical  attainment of that principle - ray bé more important  for us than for other’ international organizations,
80.2 Unesco is the organization working in the  fields of science, educatioñ'and culture. The logical  conclusion to draw, then, le that specialists in these  fields should be representid’ on the Secretariat -  that is, specialists who are familiar. with these fields  of activity and know the forms taken by work in alt  these fields in the various parts of the world, "This  aim can be achieved only if all countries, the special-  ists of all countries, are represented on the Sécretar-  sat. :
80.3 It would be wring to asset, Mr: President,  that one particular’ giroup of péople should form part  of the Unesco Secretariat and continue to work thére  all their lives, ‘Or the contrary; we feel that the  Unesco Secretariat:should constantly be replenished  by an intaké of hev people from'all countries of the  world;- this is a sine ‘qua non for the efficiency of  its works: On the othér hand, péople who have  acquired experience of the work of an organization  like ours should latér retuin to their own countries,  so that, with the experience and knowledge they have  gained in the Organization, they may help their -  national bodies to serve the interests of education,  science and culture more satisfactorily. The - -  representative of Brazil spoke of thé need for thinking  of our children. Indeed, we must think of thém, but  perhaps not in the way that hé meant. It has been  noted by many persons who have written ‘on inter-.  national administration that when people spend their  whole lives in a foréign country; particularly in -  organizations - in this connexion we can refer to the  past experience of other international organizations -  their children often have an artifiéial kind of educa-  tion and are brought up rather like stateless persons,  MEETINGS
288  because they spend their entire life ina foreign  country, in foreign surroundings,’ ’
80.4 ' It seams to me that we should âdte- one more  fact referred to in the’ Administrative Comnilésion.  An analysis of the figures given in the Secretariat's  documiénts shows that the altuatién ag régards the  countries ovér-represéntéd in the Organization  unfortunately remains practically unchanged and that  a whole geriès of countries which have been over- '  represented during the past tén years still remain  over-représénted - a situation in which we, regret-  tably, seé no markéd change. Some of the delégates  who have spoken before me have advañéed, as against  the principle of fair geographical distribution, the '  principle of the Secretariat's efficiency. In the  Administrative Commission, and heré before the  Plenary Conference; as well as in the Administrative  Commission of the Executive Board; I have repeatedly  had oécasion to voice my objection to such a standpoint.  As the representative of India rightly rémarked, this  attitude gives the impression that some countries,  some parts ’of thé world enjoy a monopoly if'the matter  of providing éffièlent staff fof the Secretariat, We  cannot approve ‘such a situation, which is highly  unjust, As for the principle of equal opportunity, 1  am afraid that if in this matter we apply it as it has  been applied so far, “the result will bé that the doors of  the Unesco Secretariat are’ ‘open only to a few countries  and not to all Member States; °
80,5 We consider that this problem stande in need  of solution, ‘We do not say that it must be solved to-  morrow} but undoubtedly much faster progress must  bé made, in solving it, than that recorded hitherto.  At every ‘sesélôri- of the Géneral Conference we discuss  this question, dnd every time we come to the conclusion  that it must be solved, But, to quote a Russian saying,  "we are always back where we started", ‘I should like  to express the hope that thé Director-General, the  Secretariat and the Executive Board, actiig on the  resolution before us, will take the necessary steps to  rectify the situation and that in future we shall not  have to discuss it at such length and in such détail.
81, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon the Assistant Director-General.
82.1 Mr. ADISESHIAH, Assistant Director-General:  Mr. President, we have hdd in this plenary méeting  an extremely useful and representative discussion,  which the Director-General will bear in mind in  carrying out his responsibilities outlined in this  resolution: :..
82,2 ‘1 wish to offer thé following comihénts on  behalf of the Director-General: ‘first, as I sald, we  do not beliève that there’ is'any contradiction between  the considerations of professional’ ‘cormpeteñcé,-  integrity and mézit, on the one hand, and geographical  distribution on the other; in the Secretariat posts. -  Secondly; as hds been pointed out by many delegates,’  the Diréctor-General has tried in the last four years  to improve the geographical distribution of posts in  the Secretariat, and the record is before you.  Thirdly, you have said that you are not satisfied with  the present geographical distribution of the posts  in the Sec: etarlat and the Director-General will  exert himself, as hé has done in the last few years,  to improve as rapidly as he ¢an the disequilibrium   PLENARY  that has beeri referred {6 in our discussion. He will  carry out the re-examination of the weight given to  the grades in the present point system, and place  before the Executive Board a revised system for its  examination and approval, . ..
82.3 Having. said all that, 1 feel I should ‘comment  on certain points which have been mide by the Indian  delegation; First; thé forty-two‘countries reprèsent-  ing the language posts in the Unitèd Nations should be  compared with the ten countries who make up the  language posts in Unesco, and not four, The larger  number of language posts iii the United Nations is  due tô the larger number of the Latin<American  countries composing the Spariish séétion| and the  Arab countries composing its Arabié Language  Section, which the Unitéd Nations has but which does  not exist here, Secondly, with reference to the  indeterminate contracts being given by the United  Nations and théss being given by Unesco, I should  point out that the United Nations had reached the  figure of 90 per dent at its eleventh session when it  made the decision to go slow, whereas we are still -  well under. 70 per vent; ds polated out by thé Indian  delegate. Further, we do hot give indeterminate  contracts on initial appointment; all our initial .  appointments are by fixed-term contracts, with  regard to the members of thé Sécretariat féom China  and the Union af South Africain addition fo what  the delegation of China said; ! think I ny ‘safely say  that they are officers who have béen recy vited in the  past and are well known to you, and who aré serving  the Organization faithfully and efficiently. -
82.4 Accepting all that has been said by the delega-  tions; including the delegations of India and the Soviet  Union ; I'would point tait ohce more that the Director-  General cannot be asked to do ariything that would be  contrary to Staff Régulations which are enacted by  ‘you and the Staff Rules which Feprésént fairness and  justice to the staff, It is not in denying indetermin-  ate contracts to staff members’ who havé earned them  under the Staff Regulations and Staff Rules; that we  can improve geographical distribution. It is rather,  as has been pointed out by the Indian delegation in .  reference to the Montévideo decision, by not making  initial appointments from éouniries who are at’  present over-répresented:in the Secretariat, unless  the Director-General finds he must do so on" grounds  of programme requirements. For each sich appoint-  ment the Director-General has to make a certification,  and I have promised the Administrative Commission  that, in the next report which the Director-General  makes to the General Conferénce, he will report on  the certification of those éases wheré he had to make  initial appointments from countries which are over- -  represented in the Secretariat. It is, therefore, by  investigating the question of initial appointments and  by a more effective system of reé¢ruitment, already  referred to by the Ind'an delegation and others, that  we hope to win the coutinued and increasing co-  operation of Member States, and that we hope to carry  out the mandate that you will be entrusting to us in  this resolution.
83.1 - The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French}:
1 shall put resolution No. 19 to the vote.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands. )  MEETINGS
83.2 The resolution is adopted by 46 votes to 1,  with 8 absteritions,
84, . ‘Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French): - ‘  Mr. Presidént, gentlemen; the Commission took  up the report submitted’ tô it on the desirability of  providirig a cominon basic training for candidates ‘  for international civil Service and a specialized  administrative training for candidates for cértain  categories of international posts, This report’ gave  rise to a highly interesting discussion, in the light  of which the Commission recomménds that you adopt  draft resolution No, 20, which it itself adopted by
20 votes to 1, with 26 abstentions,
85.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Does anyone wish to speak on draft resolution No.
20? I shall put it to the vote.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
85.2 The resolution is adopted by 40 votes to 1,  with 10 abstentions.
86.1 Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French):  The Commission éonsidered the system of saldries,  allowances and related benefits, beginning with the  common system, The Assistant Director-General  drew the Commission's attention to document 10 C/34,  Part I, containing the Director-General's’réport on  the action he had taken; with the approval of the  Executive Board, in implementing resolution 32,  adopted by the General Conference ‘at its dinth ‘session,  with respect 10 the revised common gystéin df salaries,  allowances and relatéd benéfits. The General Copfer-  ence is requested to vote on the introduction of one  new benefit, payable as an element of the common  system upon the death of a staff member, and on the  adoption of a new cost-of-living index, established  with the assistance of the International Labour Organ-  isation.
86.2 -After adopting the Diréctor-General' a proposals,  by 40 votes to none; with 5 abstentions, the Commis-  sion recommended that the General Conference adopt  draft resolutions-Nos. 21 and 22;
87.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Has anyone any comment to make on these two  draft resolutions? I shall put them to the vote together,  as they both deal with the same question.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
87.2 Both draft resolutions are adopted unanimously.
88. - Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission, (Translation from the  French):  The Commission then considered the salaries of  staff in the General Service category. The Assistant  Director-General drew its attention to document
10 C/34; Part II, containing the Director-General's  report on his review of the system for the establieh-  ment and review of local salaries, undertaken at the  request of the Executivé Board. - Part LIL contains  the Executive Board's ¢oniments and recommenda-  tions thereon, as a result of which the Director-General   xX  withdrew the draft résolution contained in paragraph
50 of Part II in fayoir of that adopted by the Executive  Board. In the light. of the discussions which took  place in the Board, the Commission recommends that  the General Conferencé adopt « draft resolution No, 23  in which the Director General’ authorizes the . .  Director-General in‘particular "to establish a, new.  salary scale to bé adopted effective À January 1959,  but appli retroactively. to 1 April 1958, based on the  scale effective 1 Septémber 1957, with 4% representing  a portion of the present 9% temporary cost- ef-Living  adjustment, added to each step of each grade”, "to  maintain ‘the balance of the 9% cost-of-living adjust-  ment paid to eich staff member" and "to make during  the two-year period beginning 1 January 1959, subject  to the approval of the Executive Board, such further  non-pensionable adjustments as may be necessary  as a result of movements in the cost of living in  Paris", . This resolution, which the Commission asks  you to approve, bears the number 23.  “ NEES -
89.1 The PRESIDENT. (Translation from the French):  Has anyone any comments to make on this draft  resolution? I shall put it to the vote.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands. )
89,2 The resolution is adopted unanimously,
90,1 Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of  the Administrative Commisaion {Translation from  the French):  The Commission considered the Director-General's  report and proposals regarding amendments to the  Staff Regulations and the Executive Board's recommen-  dations thereon, : It took note of an additional provi-  sion which, the Director-General proposed to include  in the Staff Rules (under Promotion) following - _  approval by the General Conférence of the text which  the Comniission proposes it should adopt... :
90.2 ,A proposal by the delegations of India, Tran and  Iraq to inélude in the Commission's recommendations  to the General Conference a provision sithorizing the  Director-General not to grant, in general, indetermin-  ate contracts to persons from countries which are  already over-represented till such time as better. .  geographical distribution prevails in the Secretariat,  whs rejected by 19 votes to 5.- This quéstion was also  taken up in the draft resolution concerning geographi-  cal distribution, which you approved a few minutes ago.  The Commission accordingly recommends that you  adopt draft resolution No. 34.  oi. 1 The PRESIDENT. (Translation from the French):  Has anyoh€ any comment to make on this draft  resolution? . I shall put it to the vote.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
91.2 The resolution is adopted by 47 votes tonone,  with 3 abstentions.
91.3 ~ We also have to adopt paragraph 103.  is no objections 1 shall take it to be adopted.  If there
02, 1 Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administratiyé Commission (Translation from the  French}; : =  . The Commisston considered questions relating to  the Administrative Tribunal and recommends that  you adopt the Director-General’ s proposal that the  necessary arrangements be made for the extension of
280     PLENARY MEETINGS  the jurisdiction of the Administrative Tribunal of the  International Labour Organisation in respect of cases  arising in the period from 1 January 1858 to 31 Dec-  ember 1960,: - !
92.2 The delegation of the United States of America  reiterated the views of its Government regarding the  possible establishment of a single tribunal for all  United Nations organizations and asked that the matter  be given further study: : However, it endorsed draft  resolution No, 25, which is submitted to you for  approval,
93.1 . The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Has anyone any comment to make on this draft  resolution? I shall put it to the vote,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands. )
93.2. The resolution is adopted unanimously.
94, Mr.:BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French): - Cha  Lastly, so ) far as this part of our Report is conceraed,  we considered social security questions, beginning with  the extension of the Medical Benefits Fund to cover  retired staff members. After a brief discussion,  during which supplementary explanations concerning  the Diréctor-General's proposal were given; the  Commission decided, by 25 votes to none, with 7 ab-  stentions, to recommend the adoption of draft resolu-  tion No, 26, authorizing the Director-General to  extend, for a trial period of two years commencing
1 January 1959, the Medical Benefits Fund to cover  retired staff members. .
85.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Does anyone wish to speak on this draft resolution?  I shall put it to the vote, -  (The vote was taken by a show of hands. )
85,2 Resolution No. 26 is adopted by 48 votes to 4.
96. Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium). Chairman of the  Administrative Commission (Translation from the  French): - '  The Commission then considered the ‘Direotor-  General's proposal to continué the Staff Compensation  Fund, originally created by the Gèneral Conference  at its eighth session, The representative of the .  Director-General undertook, at the suggestion of the  delegation of Australia; to arrange for study of the  possibility of charging compensation payments to the  Working Capital Fund, thus abolishing the Staff  Compensation Fund. The Commission decided, by
35 votes to none, with 4 abstentions, to accept the  Director-General's proposals and accordingly submits  draft resolution No. 27 to the General Conference for  adoption,
97.1 The PRESIDENT I (Translation from the French):  Has anyone any comments to make on this draft  resolution? 1 shall put it to the vote,  (The vote was taken by u show of hands.)
97.2 The resolution is adopted unanimously.
98. Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium), Chairman of the  Administrative Comraission (Translation from the  French):  Lastly, the Commission took note of the Director-  General's report on the United Nations Joint Staff   PLENARY  Pension Fund, and asks you to endorse its approval of  the election of representatives of Chile, the Federal  Republic of Germany and Turkey as full members ct  the Unesco Staff Pension Committee, and represeria-  tives of Cambodia, Poland and Spain as alternate  members, for the period 1 January 1859 to 31 De :em-  ber 1960.
99.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  There is no objection to the approval of paragraph    XXII  MEETINGS
1117 It 18 ‘approved;
99.2 Once again I thank the Chairman of the Admini-  strative Commission, who has also served as Rappor-  teur of that Commission, for this extremely good  Report; and I thank you all, gentlemen, for your  attention. ,  The meeting rose at 6,30 p.m.