2 December 1958, at 3,45 p.m,  + President: Mr. Maxwell M. RABB (United States of America)  Le  CONTENTS  Report of the Programme Commission. . . + « + + + «  REPORT OF THE PROGRAMME COMMON
1,1 The PRESIDENT:  The meeting is called to order, We are today  considering a very formidable part of the work of the  Conterence, the Report of the Programme Commission  to the General Conference. At the outset, ! would like  tosay a word of praise for all who worked on this re-  port in the earlier stages, and particularly for Dr.  Beety of New Zealand, who chafred the Programme  Commission with such skill and fairness that his work  was greeted by sustained and spontaneous applause.
1,2 The Conference will have before it two docu-  ments which are relevant to the consideration of this  Report: document 10 C/72 and the Proposed Pro-  gramme and Budget for 1959-1960, 10 C/5 Rev,  First, it would be helpful for us all to have an overall  exposition of the Report, and it would be appropriate  also at this time to hear general observations. !  ‘shall therefore call upon the Rapporteur of the Pro-  gramme Commission, Mr. Maté of Ghana,
2.1 Mr. MATE (Ghana),  gramme Commission;  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, in present-  ing the Report of the Programme Commission (docu-  ment 10 C/72), 1 would like first {6 make a few gen-  eral observations on the work of the Commission,  I sm glad to report that the discussion at all levels  was full and froak and was held in an atmosphere of  friendliness. The contributions of the various dele-  grations showed that they had been given careful  thought. For the first time, Rule 78, 2 of the Rules  of Procedure, adopted by the General Conference at  its ninth session, in New Delhi, in 1956, was applied:  Member States were invited to submit to the Director-  General, at least six weeks before the opening of the  General Conference, any draft resolutions or amend-  ments involving naw activities or substantially  increasing the budget level,
2.2 Working Parties were established for the pur-  pose of examining in detail the five main chapters of  the programme; There were points for and against  the application of this new procedure, The work was  expedited - a great advantage in view of the short  time available for exomining the programme, . This  procedure, moreover, permitted experts on the  Working Parties to give the full benefit of their  Rapporteur of the Pro-
254  experience and knowledge, and the discussions were  productive of good results, When the conclusions of  the Working Partles were submitted to the Programme  Commission, Mémber States with small delegations  were able to hear the views presented and to join in  the general discussion of them, even if they had not  participated fully in the discussions of the various  Working Parties. The Programme Commission held  very useful and constructive debates on many subjects  of general interest to all delegations, such as dis-  crimination in education, vocational and technical  education in Africa, the Special Fund and the Special  Account, and many others, There was agreement  that, while maintaining the system of Working Parties,  provision should be made at the next session of the  General Conference for the Programme Commission,  at the end of its work, to have a general discussion on  the programme and budget. ! am happy to report that  the Commission worked according to schedule; [am  also pleased to report that for the first time in my  experience the Programme Commission has completed  its work with a balanced budget, | consider that this  achievement will set a happy precedent for the future  operation of the Commission and help to build up the  confidence of Member States in Unesco,
2.3 In connexion with the work of the Commission,
1 must draw attention to the following observation  concerning resolutions and work plans, which was  formulated by the Executive Board for the guidance  of the Commission: "The work plans are intended  for the information of delegates and are not voied on  by the General Conference, They are simply fore-  casts, oflen made saveral years in advance, of the  way in which the programme resolutions can be  implemented," Accordingly, the Programme Commis-  sion approved resolutions and departmental budgets  and noted work plans, This procedure is reflected  in the Commission's Report,
2,4 1am happy to observe that the Report was un-  animously adopted, 1 think this shows a unified  teeling in the Programme Commission, and in Unesco,  as to the main direstions of the Organization's work.  I also think that this unanimity augurs well for the  future of Unesco, ! now come to the Report itself  and will address my remarks raore specifically to  the document before you, 10 C/72. The Report  covers all the work of the Programme Commission  and its Working Parties at this session of the General   PLENARY  [i  +  the report on the appraisal of  Unesco's program hick #ill be the subject of  separate discussion fa plefary meeting, A report  is also to be made on fe woilk of the Joint Meeting  of the Administrative and Programme Commissions;  it was considered yesterday at a joint meeting of the  two Commissions, : i
25 The Report has been kept as short as possible  fortwo reasons; first, ‘the General Conference and  the Executlya Board haye both - and I think wisely -  called for a substantial reduction in the size of docu-  ments, Secondly, and more important, the interesting  and fruitful debates Kio took qi in the Working  Conference, except {  Pærlies and which lefito many of @ decisions re-  corded in this Report have been Pimirably described  inthe second part of the reports of the Working Parties,  The Working Party réports, which are official docu-  ments of the Conference, will serve as a guide to  Member States, the Executive Board and, of course,  the Secretariat, ‘in the execution of the grogramme  in 1959-1960, The debate in the Programme Commie-  sion itself is reported in detail In the summary  records. Therefore, the Report concentrates on the  resolutions and other concrete decisions and recom-  mendations which resulted from the Programme:  Canmission's deliberations, . It may be useful to say  a word on how the Réport is presented. It consists  of an Introduction followed by an account of the Com-  mission's decisions on the Proposed Programme and  Budget for 1959-1960, as set forth in document
10 C/5 Revised, I think you will find the Report  largely self-explanatory. I would only point out that  the text of the resolutions which are to be adopted have  been reproduced in the Report only when the texts  in the grey book (document 10 C/5 Rev.) were modi-  fled, or if the resolutions came from another source,  such as draft resolutions and {he corrigenda or  addenda to the grey book, In other words, the texts  of all of the resolutions to be approved are found in  two documents only - 10 C/5 Revised and the Report  beforé you (10 C/72). Ce ;
2,6 , The Director-General's proposals on the  priority items recommended by the W orking Parties  were accepted by the Commission, and have been  taken into account in the Report in connexion with  each chapter of the programme. Those priority items  recommended by Working Partles which were not  covered by the Director-General's proposals are also  described at the appropriate places in the Report so  that the Director-General may take them into consi-  deration during the execution of the 1959-19 60 pro-  gramme, If funds should become pvailable, or fn  planning the 1961-1962 programme, . .,
2.7 1 would like to say a word with regard to one  point in the report - Cultural Ac({vitles Chapter,  paragraph 138, Sub-paragraphs (i) to (vil) of this  paragraph, relating to the granting of subventions  and contracts, will be integrated into the projects  to which they relate, The Administrative Commission,  in preparing the appropriation table, therefore trans-  ferred to the budget of the Major Project on Mutual  - Appreciation of Eastern and Western Cultural Values  the last item of expenditure, listed in paragraph
136 (vif) relating to the promotion of the recording  on discs of Eastern music. The total for the  Cultural Activities Chapter should therefore read  $2, 847, 168, and for the Major Project $800, 387,
1 would like to make another correction to page 14,  lines 8 and 9 of the Report, After "1959", in Line 8,  delete all the words starting from "at" up to "Ham-  burg" in line 9 to read; !'would be organized in 1959  to establish general principles in the field of pro-  fessional and technical education .,,", |  In conclusion, let me say how much L am in-  debted to the oxcellent reports prepared by the  Rapporteurs of the Working Parties, from whose |  pens has come much of the coplents of the document  before you today, - Finally, I should like to pay tri-  bute to the Chairman of the Commission for his  admirable handling of the work of this Commission;  a great deal of its success is due lo the inspiration  and guidance given to the Commission by Dr. Beeby.  Also, I think I should fail in my duty if I did not  comment on the excellent work which has been done  by the members of the Secretariat, especially the  two able secretaries whose duty it was to put the  Report together, Quite often when excellent results  are achieved, there is a tendency to forget the  individuals who have worked behind the scenes. We  shall not allow that to happen on this occasion, and  I am sure you will all join me in showing our appre-  ciation to all concerned, ’
3.1 The PRESIDENT;  We are most grateful to Mr, Maté for his helpful  presentation of the Report, If the delegations wish  to present general observations we should be glad  to hear them now, There will, however, be another  opportunity to make general observations when the  Report in its entirety is put to the Conference. ..
3,2 Since we have no requests to present general  observations we shall continue our consideration of  the Report. A word as to the manner in which we  shall consider this matter: there are seven chapters  and three annexed chapters - 1A, 2A and 4A, We  have also the Introduction tu consider, in addition  to three important items at the end of the report  which relate to all the chapters. We shall consider  the Report chapter by chapter, and within each  chapter, project by project. Each project includes  one or more paragraphs of which I will give you the  numbers in putting them to you for adoption, Since  the paragraphs under each project refer to resolutions  and to work plans, in adopting them we shall be  adopting the resolutions and taking note of the work  plans, This procedure was followed by the Programme  Commission in adopting its Report, and Î propose  that we follow the same procedure, When we come  to a project that includes two or more work plans, or  resolutions, a delegation may desire to have a speci-  fic resolution considered separately; if any delega-  tion communicates such a desire to me, I shall be  glad to arrange for separate consideration of that  item. Let us now take up the Report, ;
3.3 First we have the Introduction which is con-  tained in paragraphs 1-20, Any comments? Adopted,
3.4 Chapter 1 - Education. First we have para-  graph 30, the introductory paragraph for Education,  Any crminents? Adopted, 4. _
3,5 Project 1,0 - Office of the Director,. contained  in paragraph 31, Are there any comments? Adopted.
3.6 Project 1,1 - Co-operation with International  Organizations, contained in paragraphs 32-35, May  I call attention at this point to the fact that paragraph 35   ”  XX  applies to other chapters as well as Education? Any  comments? “Adopted;
3.7 Project 1/2 - Education Clearing House and  Advisory Services contained in paragraphs 36-39,  Any comments? Adopfed,
3.8 Project 1,3 - Special Services for. the Advance-  ment of Education, in paragraphs 40- 46. Any com-  ments? - Adopted,
3.9 Project 1,4 - School Liducation, contained in  paragraphs 47- -55, Any comments? Adopted. -
3.10 Project il. 5 - Fundamental Education, para-  graphs 56-58, Any comments ? Adcpted,
3,1 Project 1,8 = Out-of-school Fducation for  Young People and Adults, contained ‘in paragraphs
59-65, Any comments? Adopted,
3,12 On page 18, ‘referénce is made to certain  matters that should be considered before we proceed  to the adoption of the whole Report. Paragraph 66 -  Staff Esfablishment, Any comments? Adopted,
3.13 Paragraph 67 - Budget for Education Chapter,  Any comments? Adopted,
3.14 We come now to Chapter 1A - Major Project  on the Extension of Primary Education in Latin  America, including paragraphs 68-69,  Adopted,
3.15 We now proceed to Chapter 2 - Natural  Sciences. We shall take up first paragraph 70, the  introduction, Any comments? Adopted.
3.16 Project 2,0 - Office of the Director, para-  graph7l. Are there any comments? Adopted.
3,17 Project 2.1 - Co-operation with International  Organizations, contained in paragraph 72. Any com-  ments? Adopted. -
3.18 Project 2.2 - improvement of Scientific  Documentation, contained in paragraphs 73 to 78,  Any discussion? Adopted.
3.19 Project 2,3 - Promotion and Teaching of  Sclence, contained in paragraphs 79 to 83. Are  there any comments? Adopted,
3,20 Project 2,4 - Coniribution to Scientific  Research, contained in paragraphs 84 to 96, I would  like to comment hiere myself; this ls a large project  with vast impilcations, and I would like,àtherefore,  to allow a Îittle extra time in case any of you decide  to enter into the discussion. I call upon the delegate  of Denmark, Mr, Nielsen,
41 Mr, NIELSEN (Derimark):  Mr, Presidént, it you will allow me, I shall quite  briefly comment on'paragfaph 80," which concerns  investigations in the marine sciences, It is not  evident from ihé text before Ÿé, to what ‘extent the  activities of Unesco in {his field will be co-ordinated  with the work’ proposed and planned by’ thé International  Council of Sclentitie Unions, through its Special Com-  mittee on Oceanic Research, 1 take it that, neverthe-  less, it is the intention that the work in this field  will be carried out in the closest co-opération with  those scientific circles which are concerned with the  work of exploring the sciences of the sé. ‘ In parti-  cular, I wish to draw your attérition.tô‘the very great  help which Unesco can offer to the Special Committee  on Oceanic Research in approaching Member States  adjacent to thé Indian Ocean, where the programme  of ICSU fs to be lauriched, with'a view fo obtaining  their agreement that investigations should, without  -any diplomatic delay, be authorized on the continental  Any comments?
256  PLENARY MEETINGS  shelf of the countries adjacent to that ocean: That  {s a question where Unéscé, being an international  and intetgovernmental body, could very much help  ICSU, which is a non-governmental organization,
4,2 The scope of this investigation is very far-  reaching and, ‘as you know, ‘the Indian Ocean is one  of the least explored parts of the seas, where éxplora-  tion on purely scientific grounds may well advance  the use which inankind can make of the resources of  the sea, It'is for this important reason that 1 wish  to stress our desire that Unesco should, as far as  possible, go to the limits of its powers to assist the  exploration of that part of the ocean, which is planned  for the years 1961-1963, by the International Council  of Scientific Unions, through its Special Committee,
5, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr, Nielsen, The Director of the  Department of Natural Sciences will reply.
6,1 Mr, AUGER (Secretariat) (Translation from  the French):  Mr, President, the Seèrelériat entirely agrees  with Mr, Nielsen that Unesco's collaboration with  the International Council ‘of Séientific Unions is în-  dispensable. This collaboration, which dates from  the very inception of Unesco, is not likely to cease;  on the contrary, it must continually dévelop and the  fact that thé International Céuncil of Scientific Unions  has set up a Special Committee on Oceanographic  Research is bound to lead to extremely close co-  operation between Unesco and the International Coun-  cil of Scientific Unions in the very important matter  of the exploration of comparatively unknown seas,  such as the Indlan Océan,
6.2 The Director-General can assure Mr, Nielsen  that the Secretariat will, as far as its budget permits,  give every possible assistance to ICSU!s Special  Committee on Oceanographic Research, which deals  with questions of the sea, Its work will be co-ordinated  with Unesco's regular marine science research pro-  gramme, which {s carried out under the guidance of  the International Advisory Committee on Marine  Sciences. This Advisory Committee and the ICSU  Committee work in perfect harmony and the ¢o-  operation of the two organizations should be most  effective.
7.1 The PRESIDENT:  Any other ‘comments? Project 2,4 - Contribution  to Scientific Réséarch, contained in paragraphs 84  to 96, is adopted,
7.2 Project 2,6 - Regiunal Activilles, contained in  paragraph 97, Any comments? Adopted.
7.3 Paragraph 08, Staff Establishment. Adopted.
7.4 Paragraph 99; Budget for the Natural Sciences  Chapter, Comments? Adopted,
7.6 We come now to Chapter 2A - Major Project  on Sclentitic Research on Arid Lands, Since this  may present interest to certain delegations, will  anyone wishing to comment on this section, which  includes paragraphs 100-104, please be prepared  to join in the discussion? Any comments? Chapter
2A is adopted,
7.6 Chapter 3, Soclal Sétenées, paragraph 105,  the Introduction, Any discussion? Adopted.
7.7 Project 3,0 - Office of the Director, in paragraph
106, Any discussion? Adopted.   PLENARY
7,8 Project 3,1 - Co-operation with International  O¢gantzations, contained tn paragraph 107. Any  ‘comments? Adopted,
7.8 Project 3, 2 - Improvement of Social Science  ‘Documentation, paragraph 108, Any comments?  Adopted, .
7.10 Project 3.3 - Statistics rélailng to Education,  Science and Culture and Mass Communication, con-  tained in’ parägraphs 109-111, The Conference is  reminded that it will be asked to take a decision at  the end of the discussion on this Report, regarding  the text of the recommendations mentioned in pata-  graph110, and also in paragraph 148 which we shall  take up later under Cultural Activities, These con-  cern the adoption of international conventions and  recommendations and will be taken up either later  today or tomorrow morning, Any comments? If  not, Project 3, 3, Statistics relating to Education,  Science and Cullure, is adopted, ;
7.11 Project 3,4 - Promotion of Teaching and  Resea rch in the Soctal Sciences, contained in para-  graphs 112 to 115, Is there any discussion? Adopted.
7.12 Project 3,6 - Promotion of International  Understanding and Peaceful Co-operation, contained  in paragraphs 116-119, Are there any comments?  Adopted, .
7,13 Project 3.6 - Promotion of Human Rights,  which {s contained Inparagraph 120, Does anyone  wish to discuss this? Adopted.
7.14 Project 3,7 - Promotion of Social Development  contained in paragraphs 121-126, Any comments?  Adopted,
7.15 Project 3.8 - Surveys and Evaluation Tech -  niques, in paragraph 127. Any discussion? Adopted.
7.16 Project 3.9 - Social Science Co-operation  Office, Cairo, in paragraph 128, Any comments?  Adopted,
7.17 Staff establishment, in paragraph 129,  comments? Adopted.
7.18 Budget for the Social Sciences Chapter, which  is contained fin paragraph 130, Adopted,
7.19 We now come to Chapter 4 - Cultural Activities.  I call upon the delegate of France,  Any
8,1 Mr. CAIN (France)(Translation from the  French):  Mr, President, I do not wish to reopen the general  discussion, which began in the Working Party, but I  should like to put three questions in connexion with  this chapter,
8.2 The first is the following. In paragraph 149,  there is a project entitléd "International Collaboration  among Cultural Relations Seryices" + This project  does not especially concern the Department of Cultural  Activities; it éoncerns all the Departments of Unesco.  I wonder whether it would not be more ap ropriate  to place it in Chapter 7, rather than in ‘Chapter. 47?
8.3 Furthermore, I note in paragraph 155, that  the Director-Genéral has undertake. uring- the ,  execution of the programme in 1959-1966 to find the  $20, 000 necessary for the implementa tion of this  - project, [would like - and this {5.my second ques tion  - to ask the Director-General, slice he can make  such commitments, whether he cad not do so in  _ connexion with a mattér which was 'debated at very  great length fn the Working Party, ‘and, subsequently,  in the Programme Commission “self; I refer to
257     MEETINGS XX  the matter of subventions to non-governmental  organizations,
8,4 The Director-General was able to make avail-  able the sum of $16,585, which appears on page 35  of the document before you, and it was therefore  possible, .in certain very speclal cases, to meet.  requests which had been made in accordance with the  rules and by the required date. On the other hand, -  some requests from non-governmental organizatiohs,  owing to mistakes, were not forwarded in time and  therefore had to be turned down. - --
8.5 1belleve that many of us would have wished  these refusals to be slightly less categorical and would  have Jiked some of the organizations to be given a .  little hope. 1am thinking, in particular, of an organ-  ization like the International Federation of Library  Associations, which has nothing but a subvention of .  $1,750, Its President, Mr. Bourgeois, whom many  of you know, since he has been a delegate of Switzer-  land at earlier sessions of the General Conference,  wrote a letter requesting that this subvention be  raised to as much as $5, ‘000.
8.6 Similarly, the International Federation for  Documentation has requested. that its subvention of  $1,750 be increased to $5, 000," Certainly, such an  increase would be very useful to both these bodies,
8.7 The same would be true, 1 should say,- of the  International Council for Philosophy and the. Human-  istic Studies, on whose behalf you haye admittedly  made a considerable effort, first at New Delhi, then  again this year, but the task of this body is immense,  its activities extremely varied and, in fact, it is  entirely responsible for carrying out part of Unesco's  programme,
8.8 1 would even go so far as to say that i, during  the next two years, the Director-General should be in  a position to make funds available, I wish that he -  would undertake to allocate them to these organizations,  just as he has undertaken to find $20, 000 for inter-  national relations and exchange in education, science  and culture, We should like him to enter into a similar  commitment now,
8.9 Finally, I should like to draw your attention to  one last point; it concerns a committee you set up a  few years ago, namely, the International Advisory  Committee on Bibliography. An amount of $8,000  has been provided for contracts for thls Committee  in 1959, These are only conlracts - that was the  .method you advocated -- and not subventions, but they  finance the publication of handbooks, In different lan-  guages, which facilllate work in the varlous countries.  Well, I should like to point out that, although you have  a sum of $8,000 for 1959, you have nothing for 1960,
8.10 , Once again, if the Director-General finds that  he can effect certain economies, 1 should like him  to make money available both for these contracts and  for the International organizations to which 1 have  just réiséred,
9. the PRESIDENT:  The Assistant Director-General, Mr, Thomas,  wil reply to the questions raised by the delegate of  France.
10,1 Mr. THOMAS, Assistant Director-General  (Translation from the French);  Mr. President, the delegate of France asked the   XX PLENARY  Director-General three questions, which I have been  requested to answer on his behalf, a /
10,2 The first’ question was why Project 4,4, which  is set out in paragraphs 149 to 163 under the heading  “Interndtional Collaboration among Cultural Relations  Services 1s included in the Cultural Activities  Chapter, considering that it écricerns all the Sécre-'  tarlat's programme’ activities, ‘and not just this  Department, | understand that the délegaté of France  asked why this’ project could not be included in  Chapter 7 (Relations with Membèr States), The’  project concerned, which is rather limited fn scope  at present, did indeed come under "Relations with  Member States" for the years 1857 and 1958 and -  its Implementation was- the responsibility of the  Bureau of Relatioris with Member States, ‘But; ‘as  this project was developing and was bound to'have a  more important place in the programme, ‘it was ‘  deemed advisable to: entrust it to one ‘of the Pro-'  gramme Departments’ - this Department is obviously  riot the only ohe conéerriéd, but a large part of its  activities are closely connected with those coming’  under international cultural’ rélations; Furthermore,  the Diréctor-Genéral thought that the Director of -  the Departnieñt of Cultural Activities,’ being very  experienced in that field and having been at the head  of a large ; national cultural relations servicé, was  particularly well qualified to give the project the’  wide scope'he wanted it to have, Moreovér, the -  Prograirime Comission has discussed the matter  and, In its report,’ il'proposès thé same solution às  that of the Ditector-General. I therefore think that  it is for the Programme Commission to say whether  it wishes to follow the suggestion of the delegate of  France. In any case, thé reason! have just given  in reply to his question is the ore that léd the Director-  General to choosé this solution in his Proposed  ‘Programme for 1959-1960, 5 '
10.3 The second question of the delegate of France  concerns subventions’ to international non- ;  governmental organizations, It is ¢orrect that in  an~nuaxion with the cultural relations project, and  especially the inquiry which the Economic and Social  Council requested Unesco’ to cénduct, the Director-  General, In view of the fact that the request came  from an organ of the United Natlons and the one |  responsible for ¢o-ordinating the activities of the  Specialized Agencies, undertook, since he could not  raise the budget ¢eiling, to find the money réquired  to implement this project, The delegate of France  is asking whether the Directèr-General cou d not |  also undertake to find the money necessary to Increase  certain subventions, The Dire.tor- General replies  that he will givé the question sympathetic considera-  tion, but that he cannot commit himself forthwith.  Besides, I might mention that subventions are fixed  by the Exécitive Board, not by the Director-General,  What the Director-General could do ts to try to find  the additional amounts which the Executive Board  may wish to have available.
10.4 - Finally, the third question concerns the  contracts for the Advisory Committéé én Bibliography.  Mr, President, the question is slightly embarrassing,  because it does not seem to have been discussed by  the Programme Commission; at any rate, it does  not appear in that Commission's report, Ido not   even think - though my colleague, Mr, Salat, may
258  MEETINGS  correct me < that it appears in the report of the Work-  ing Party, ' So a. ‘décialén of the General Conference  would bé necessary to settle the question, But there  again, the Diréctor-General {5 quite willing to examine  the question sympathetically if the Conference decides  that it is solely up to him, ,
11,1 The PRESIDENT:  We shall take up the individual matters which have  been diséussed here, as we consider the projects  in this chapter,” - - co
11,2 Chapter 4, Cultural Activities, paragraph 1,31,  the Introdüction,’ Any questions? - Adopted,
11,3 Project 4:0 - Office of the Director, peragraph
132, Any discussion? Adopted, oo
11,4 Project 4,1" Co-operation with International  Cultural Organizations, contained in'paragraphs 133  to 139, including resolution 4,12, May 1 at this  point call attention to thé Rapporteur's statement that  item (vii)'of paragraph 36 was fransferred to the  Major Project ‘of Mutual Appreciation of Eastern and  Western Cultural Vilues? Any comments? Adopted,
11,6 Project 4,2 = International Exchange of Informa-  tion; contained in paragraphs 140 to 143," Any com-  ments? Adopted, ~~ ;
11,6 Project 4,3 - International Agreements,” con-  tained in paragraphs 144 to 148, I would Hke to point  out that the Conference will be asked at the end of  this discussion formally to adépt the text of the Con-  ventions mentioned in paragraph 148, Does anyone  - wish to comment on this séction? Adopted.
11,7 Project 4.4 - International Co-operation among  the Cultural Relations Servicés, ‘paragraphs 149 to
163, You will recall that the'delegate of France has  raised a question regarding paragraph 138. Mr. Tho-  mas declared that it was for the Progtammo Commis-  sion to make this decision. Does the delegate of  France proposé that we refer this matter to the  Programme Commission for reconsideration? We  shall thereforé accept it as it stands, Any other  comments? Projéct'4, 4 is adopted, ;
11,8 Project 4,4A - Report and Rééommendations  on International Relations and Exchange in Education,  Science and Culture, contained in paragraphs 154 io
155, It has just been brought to miy attention that this  title should be amended to read''exchanges'' rather  than exchange”, You will also recall that the delegate  of France asked a question on this point, to which Mr,  Thomas replied, Is there any other comment? Adopted.
11,8 Project 4.5 - Unesco Library and Reference  Service, contained in paragraph 156, Any discussion?  Adopted, +.
11,10 Project 4,6 - Preservation of the Cultural  Heiltage of Mankind, contained in paragraphs 157 to
160, Any comments? Adopted,
11.11 Project 4,71 - Maintenance and Adaptation  of Traditional Cultures, paragraph 161. Any com-  ment? Adopted, - - ;
11,12 Project 4,73 = Production of Reading Mater-  fals, contained in paragraphs 162 and 163, Any  discussion? Adopted,
11.13 Project 4.75 - Development of Libraries  and Museums, contained in paragraphs 164 to 167,  Any discussion? Adopted,
11,14 Project 4,81 - Culture and International  Understanding, in paragraphs 168 to 169, Any  comments? Adopled,   PLENARY MEETINGS
11,15 Project 4,82 - History of the Scientific and  Cultural Development of Mankind, contained in para-  graphs 170-172, Comments? Adopted,
11,16 Budget for the Cultural Activities Chapter,  given in paragraphs 173-174, - Adopted,-
11,17 Chapter 4A Major Project on Mutual Appre-  clation of Eastern and Western Cultural Values,  contairied in paragraphs 175-185. Has anyone a com-  ment to make? Adopted,
11,18 - Chapter 56 - Mass Communication, Introduc-  tion, paragraph’ 166, Any comments? Adopted.
11,19 Project 5,0 - Office of the Director, con-  tained in paragraph'187;- Any comments? -Adopted.
11,20. Project-5.1 « Public Information and Pro-  motion of International Understanding, paragraph 188,  Any comments? Adopted.
11.21 Project 5,11 - Press, paragraphs 189-193.  Any discussion? Adopted, ‘
194-198, Does anyone wish to discuss this? Adopted,
11,23 Project 5.13 = Radio, paragraphs 199-200,  Any comments? Adopted,
11,24 Project 6,14 - Public Liaison, paragraphs
201-203, Any comments? - Adopted,
11,25 Project 5.15 - Commemoration of Anniver-  saries of Great Personalities; contained in para-  graphs 204-206. - ‘Any comments? . Adopted,
11,26 Project 5,2 - Free Flow of Information,  paragraphs 207-213. Any comments? Adopted.
11,27 Project 6,3 ~ Clearing House and Promotion  of Mass Communication Res earch, paragraphs 214-
218, Any diséussion? ‘ Adopted.
11,28 Project 5,4 - Improvement of Means and  Techniques of Communication, paragraphs 219-222,  The Rapporteur would like to comment on paragraph
222, with reference to a question of translation,
12 Mr. MATE (Ghana), Rapporteur of the Pro-  gramme Commission; ;  - With regard to paragraph 222, I would point out  that the French translation does not conform to the  English original, In accordance with paragraph 3  of document 10 C/72 the Secretariat will make the  necessary alteration,
13.1 The PRESIDENT:  Does anyone else wish to comment? Project
5,4 - Improvomént 6f Means and Techniques of Com-  munication is adopted,
13,2 Staff Establishment, paragraph 223,  comments? Adopted, «
13.3 Budget for the Mass Communication Chapter,  paragraph 224. Any comments? Adopted,
13.4 Chapter 6, Exchange of Persons, Introduction,  paragraph 225. Adopted,
13,5 Project 6,0 - Office of the Chief, in paragraph
226, Adopted,
13.6 - Project 8,1 - Clearing House and Advisory  Services, contained in paragraphs 227-228, Any  comments? Adopted,  . 13.7 Project 8,2 - Fellowship Programme, para-  graphs 220-231, Any discussion? Adopted.
13.8 Project 8,3 - Promotion of Exchange of Per-  sons for International Understanding, contained In  paragraphs 232-233, Any comments? Adopted.
13,5 Project 6,4 - Exchange of Workers, contained  in paragraphe 234-236,’ Any comments? Adopted,  Any
13,10 -Project 6,5 - Exchange of Young People,  paragraphs 237-238. -Any discussion? Adopted,
13,11 Project 6,6:- Exchange of Teachers, para-  graphs 239-240, Any discussion? Adopted.
13,12 Paragraph 241; Staff Establishment,: Adopted.
13,13 - Budget Summary, paragraph 242, Any  comments? Adopted, . - .
13:14 Chapter 7, Relations with Member States.  Project.7, l'- ‘Assistance to National Commissions,  contained in paragraph 243. Any comments? Adopted.
13.16 Project 7, 2 - Publication and Study of Reports  of Member Statss,‘ contained in paragraphs 244- 245,  Any comments? . Adopted,
13,16 © Project 7,3 - Participation in the Activities  of Member States, paragraphe 246-251. Any com-  ments? Adopted; -
19,17 Project 7:4 - Expanded Programme of Tech-  nical Assistance, paragraphs 252-253. Any comments?  Adopted. :
13,18 ‘Project 7 42 - Co-operation with the Special  Fund, paragraphs 254-256, Any.comments? Adopted.
13,19 Project 7,5 - Bureau of Relations with Mem-  ber States; ;«+idgraph 257, * Any comments ? Adopted,
13.20 Projest 7,6 - Regional Office in the Western  Hemisphere, paragraph 258. Any discussion?  Adopted. .
13.21 Budget for the Chapter on Relations with  Member States, paragraph 259, Any discussion ?  Adopted, -...--
13,22 We now have a tew supplementary items to  take up, which,’ as 1 indicated at the beginning of this  plenary meeting relate to all the chapters. Voluntary  Contributions to a Special Account for the Implementa-  tion of the Programme of Unesco, contained in para-  graphs 260-262, Does anyone here wish to speak?  Adopted, 1 ‘
13,23 The next item concerns studies by the Exe-  cutive Board of the Major Problems Facing the  Organization with regard to the Execution of the Pro-  gramime, and the Future Development of its work within  the Framework of the United Nations and the Special-  ized Agencies, contained in paragraphs 263-266, Any  comments? Adopted.
13,24 We now come to the last item in the Report  - Documents and Publications Service, Annex I and
11 of document 10 C/6 Rev, , contained in paragraphs
267-268,’ Any comments? Adopted,
13,26 1 shall now put to the vote the adoption of the  Report; as amended, after which we shall have  the general discussion. -  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
13.26 The results of the voting ares 6 in favour;  none against; one abstention, The Report of the’  Programme Commission (document 10 c/13) is  adopted. ;
13.27 May 1 say that 1 never thought that 1 should  live to see the day when Unesco, or any other inter-  national body, would take up à matter as complicated  as this and dispose of it so quickly. 1am very grate-  ful to you for your attention and help in bringing about  this result,
13.28 We proceed now to the general comments on  this Report, I call upon the delegate of Paraguay.
14.1 Mr, CABALLERO DE BEDOYA (Paraguay)  (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, we wish to make   XX PLENARY  a few comments, in logical order, on the international  aspect of Unesco's co-operation with thé Special  United Nations Fund for Economic Development,  This is a matter of particular interest to us, in view  of its importance for the future of mankind, ,
14,2 . 1 is quite obvious that education is capable  of removing the hindrances and obstacles to the  process of evolution, inasmuch as it enhances and  improves Man's natural gifts; thus, all the other  factors contributing to a nation's prosperity are  partly dependent upon the spread of culture and the  degree to which the people are cultured,
14,3 But howeyer widespread, ‘culture alone can-  not solve economic and soétal'probléms, - Hérice thé  plan to embark-at oiicé oi a study of economic sys-  tems; hence, also the fundamental importance of  concerted action with the United Nations, which  will have to be organized in the social and economic  fields, With this goes a new activity: economic  welfare. That is,” the improvement of the material  conditions of underdey eloped countries, on which  wé must concentraté our efforts in future,
14, 4’. Unesco will indeed be able to help these coun-  tries to extricate themselves from the unhappy situ-  ation in which they have been. placed as a result of  the fall in the value of basic exports, galloping in-  flation and its consequences, depreciation of cur-  rency, economic depression, and social malaise,  For it is not true that salvation lies in independence  and self- suffioienoy, without any outside assistance.  Isolated, left to their own devices, the underdeve-  loped countries are incapable of solving their prob-  lems, - - 1 ’ :
14.5 We, the countries of Latin America, make  this appeal in full consciolisness of our economic  interdependence, ihe similarity of our social and  economie problems and the convergence of our ideas  and interests, - We are all in the same boal; the ‘  same faté awaits us all.’ Thanks to our humanistic  traditions, à common’ heritage from the West, the  evolution of the American situation is identical with  that of Europe, on the other sidé of the Atlantic,
14,6 An underdeveloped country has a right to  receive assistance from prosperous, economically  advanced ¢ountries’and need ‘not feél in any way - -  humiliated on that account, Such'assistance is given  in the spirit of mutual support which prevails in the  civilized world; it is based on the idea that it is our  duty to come to the help of our fellow-men in peril  or distress, a concept recognizäd by the canonists  as a natural law and embodied in the penal legislation  of many countries, Including France,
14,7 Today, it is becoming an international rule,  The Marshall Flan was inépiréd by the {dea that "Qui  peut et n'empêche, piche' (Whoever can help is -  duty-bound to do go.) Loissl!s maxim, according to  Politis, so admirably expresses a fundamental and  universal need that it should become a "mot d'ordre",  a byword, - profoundly respected by all civilized  men and Inspiring and gulding every government,
14.8 Thus, Unesco's co-operation with the Special  United Nations Fund for Economic Development, .  which the United Nations General Assembly decided,  last December, to establish, is of the greatest  importance for the future evolution of world economy.
14,9 1 shall conclude by emphasizing one aspect  of international economie co-operation which should
260     MEETINGS  be developed; 1 refer to the establishment of groups  of experts, technicians and scientists, trained to  study and resolve problems connected with the pro-  motion of basic economy, productivity and commer-  cial expansion. I refer also to the provision of ad-  visory services, for private concerns as well as  government departments, in order to ensure economic  development and social progress in underdeveloped  countries, :
14,10 : These additional measures (possibly accom-  panied by credit facilities or the contribution of capi-  tal and foreign currency) are a very important factor  fn the task of hastening and completing the development  of countries that are backward or have recently  acceded to their independence,
15, The PRESIDENT: .
1 thank Mr. Caballero de Bedoya and now call  upon Mr, Bocobo, of the Philippines,
16,1 Mr, BOCOBO (Philippines) (Translation from  the Spanish): RE  Mr, President, I shall not speak for more than  three minutes. The Atlantic Charter has proclaimed  four freedoms, The Philippine delegation humbly  submits that there io a fifth freedom - freedom from  ignorance. Our great Organization can be justly  proud of what it has already done towards delivering  millions of men and women from the darkness of  ignorance, that great enemy of democracy,
16.2 The prevention of discrimination in education  is part of this task, In June last, the International  Labour Organisation approved a convention and re-  commendation concerning the prevention of discrimin-  ation in the field of employment, ‘As I took a modest  part in the ILO's discussions, 1 hope that our great  Organization will be able, in due course to approve  a convention and recommendations for the prevention  of discrimination in education, In this respect, our  Organization has a far greater task to accomplish  than the ILO, for, whereas the latter endeavours to  promote equality of opportunity in the matter of  material welfare, our Organization aims at promoting  such equality in the intellectual sphere.
16,3 Discrimination in education is a very serious  matter, for it extinguishes the light of the soul,  More splendid than the act of God when he set the stars  in place to light the heavens was the flame of soul he  kindled in Man, The great Indian thinker, Rabin-  dranath Tagore; sald that, for God, the flame of the  soul of Man burns brighter than the stars. But,  unfortunately, Mr, President, in this age of enlighten-  ment, there are still ruters who wish to extinguish  the flame of the soul of Man,
16,4 Voltaire said that tyranny never sleeps, Nor,  Mr, President, does racial prejudice, or any other  kind of prejudice, ever sleep, Thus, the task before  us, is a difficult one, but it !s a noble and generous  task,
17.1 The PRESIDENT; -  I thank the delegate of the Philippines. |
17.2 A very long document which contained many  difficult projects and proposals, was disposed of  with dispatch and in a manner which reflected great  credit upon this Organization, I think this indicates  that the Working Parties and the Programme   PLENARY MEETINGS  Commission had an opportunity to thrash out, to argue  and to talk out these several questions in a very demo-  cratic manner, 50 that we were in a position today,  in considering such a volume of material, to carry  out our assignment and responsibilities in a very ,  quick and efficient manner, - This reflects credit  upon the Organization but also on its constituent parts,  the Working Parties and the Programme Commission,  and it indicates particularly, that we have had the  highest type of leadership from Mr, Beeby of New  Zealand, His great dedication and devotion to this
261  XX  Or ganization was shown here In the most extraordin-  ary fashion; I wish to thank all of you for what you  have done, and particularly Mr, Beeby, for his great  _contribution, I wish also to thank. the Rapporteur;  his initial exposition opened up the entire argument  and presented the report in such a fashion that we  were prepared to plunge into the heart of the dis-  cussion,  The meeting rose at 5,45 p.m,