12 November 1958, at 10,45 a.m.  President: Dr. Moshe AVIDOR (Israel)  CONTENTS  Report of the General Committee « + + + 2 « 4 4 4 + + 6 200  Second Réport of the Administrative Commission: Financing  of the Budget and the Provisional Budget Ceiling . . . … 201  REPORT OF THE GENERAL COMMITTEE
1.1 The PRESIDENT: ‘  The meéting will côme to order,
1,2 Before procéeding | to the {tems on the ‘agenda,  I wish to présent to you, for’ your, information and’  approval, a report on. the ‘meeting of the General  Commitieë held this morning: "The General Commit-  tee recommends to the General Conference, in äccor-  dance with Hule 108 of the Rules of Procédure, the  suspension of Rule 78, paragraph 2, 'In order to admit  until tomorrow, Thursday, | 13 November, at 10 a, m.,  draft résolutions contafhlng | new programme resolu-  tions or amendments to the’ draft programme involving  new ‘activities or trièreäsiñg substantially thé budget  estimates, provided the Member States presenting  these resolutions prove that, owing to éxcéptional  circumstances, they | were unable to’ présent such  draft resolutions six weeks before the openirig of the  tenth session, The’ sispension of Article 78, para-  graph 2, requires à two- thirds ‘majority of the mem:  bers présent ‘and votirg, "
1.3 1 wish first to submit this {tem to your approval,  so that any one wishing to speak on this point may  have your attention, I call upon the delegate of the  Netherlands,
2, . Mr, REININK (Nélnerldnds);  Mr.‘ President, we did not like to speak on this  item béfore, uf now that you ask us, we are very  glad to’shy that your proposal wis quite unexpected;  we had several proposals wè shoûld have liked to  make, but which" we did; not put forward béfore ‘because  the period of six weéks had’ already passed, Now, I  think, given the experlerice ot New Délhi, we know  what kinds of proposals’ dan € cômé before, us in quite’  unexpéctled ways. . I ‘think it would be preferable, for  the whole proceeding ‘5 5 this meeting, to work on  papers we have already had before’ us for some time.  For this reason, Mr. President, we would like to  enforce the Rule and not suspend it,
3. * Thé PRESIDENT: ’  The General Committee was also of the opinion  that Rule 78 should be adhered to as far as possible,  but it heard requests from three Member Statés ,    : 200  that, owing to exceptional circumstances,” thé Rule  be suspended; actually, only one of the three Members  has presented such draft resolutions. Thé General  Committee was of the opinion that the suspension D  should be valid only if there were unusual circum-  stances; each draft résolution would then be'consi-  dered oh its merits. In other words, thé General  Committee does not wish to invite draft resolutions,  we simply want to give the opportunity to ‘those ‘who,  under extraordinary éircumstances could not present  them, todo so now, until tomorrow at 10 a.m. Is  there anyone else who wishes to speak on the point?
1 call upon the delegate of Sweden,
4, Mr. LUND (Sweden):  Mr, President, I do not know what those exceptional  circumstances are which lead us to take a new attitude  now, and which’ so far have not been presentéd;° The  rules to which we ‘adhere hid béen known to all of us  since the New Delhi Conferencé, “that 1 means (wo years,  and if those persons or those delegations wished to  present néw proposals, they had good time to do so.  I can sée no reasons for suspending’ this rule now, and
1 must say that,’ had’ there’ been possibilities of pre-  senting proposals for thé reduction of the budget, my  delegation has instructions to do so, Bul now, since  the Rules of Procedure forbid us to do so, I think we  must adhere to the Rules of Procedure already  accepted.
5.1 The PRESIDENT: go  I wish to égrréet, first of all} one 'statément by the  delegate of ‘Sweden, ’ Draft résolutions to decrèase ,  the budget can be presented : at any time," there is no  time-limit to'that, As’ concerns thé exceptional’  cireunistarices ‘of some Member, States wishing to"  present new draft resolutidnis; I mention the three  cases that were ‘cited his morning in the Getiéral  Committee.” Our host eduiiiry; France, for lastance,  whose‘ delegation was’ so busy in preparing ‘ouk  Conference, begs the right to ‘present two draft resolu-  tions, ‘The General Commitee appreciated their  reason for this; “ The delegation of the' USSR requested  the right to walt until tomorsow to present its draft  resolution - also for a soûnd reason in thé view of  the General Comrnittee - because documents were   PLENARY MEETINGS Xi  translated ‘into Russian later than into other languages,  so that they had less time to consider them than the  other States. The delegation of Japan älso mentions  that the documents arrived in their country at a time  when it waa difficult to convene the National Commis-  sion, They have not presented any draft resolution,  they merely requested that time be given to them to  do 0, should they find it necessary, by tomorrow  moming.
5,2 Since no one else wishes to speak, I shall put  this recommendation of the General Committee to the  vote, . :  (The ‘vote wes taken by a à show of’ hands. )
5.3 The recomméndation fs adopted by 41 votes in  favour, .1l'against,'and l'abstention,--
5.4 Now we come to point 2 in the report of the  General Committée. The General Committee has  received a’communication from the head of the dele-  gation of Bolivia, document 10 C/55, requesting that  the delegation be granted the right to vote at the  tenth session of thé General Conference. The General  Committee agreed to transmit this request directly  to the plenary meeting, without previous considera-  tion by the Administratiye Commission, Does any-  one wish to speak on this p6int? Do I take it that it  is approved? Any objection? It is approved,
5.5 Point 3 - The General Committee has received  a communication from the International Union of  Students requesting admission as observers to the  tenth session of the General Conference, It was  agreed to transmit this request to the Executive Board  which, at the earliest possible momant, will study  this question and make a recommendation to the  General Conference,
5.6 Point 4 - The General committee recommends  that the genéral discussion on the report of the  Director-General on the activities of the Organization  and on the Proposed Programmie and Budget for
1959-1960 be continued at the plenary meeting today,  after discussion of the report of the Administrative  Commision on the draft resolution on methods of  financing the budget, maximum assessment level,  provisional gross budget level and provisional  spending level, . ..
8.7 We come now to point 13. 1 on our Agenda, and  I call on Mr. Hla of Burma, Rapporteur of the  Administrative Commission, to submit to us the  report of the Administrative Commission on the  budget (document 10 C/56).  SECOND REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION :  FINANCING OF THE BUDGET AND THE PROVISIONAL  BUDGET CEILING ; ;  i
6, - Mr. HLA (Burma), Rapporteur of the Admini-  strative Commission: -  +. Mr, President, I'submit to you document 10 c/ss,  the second report of the Administrative Commission,  (Mr. Hla read the report of the Administrative Comm-  lssion on the financing of thé budget and the provi-  sional budget ceiling - cf, 10 C/Resolutions,  Annex III, )
17. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, We will now hear the Director-  General's comments on this proposal,
8.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: - ’  Mr, ‘President, the discussion of the budget ceiling  and the assessment level,‘ and the methods of financ-  ing the budget, always present : a serious problem to  the General Conference, But it does rot this time:  present a sérlous problem for the Secréteriat, for.  the reason that over the past two years the Secretariat  has been trying its level best, and the Executive Board  has been irying its level best, to find out what your  wishes are in the matter of the programme you want  and the amount of money you are willing to pay for -  that programme, - Our task has been that of judging  what your wishes are. . We showed, at New Delhi,  that we were not perfect in arriving at that judgement,  and that might turn out to bé the case this time also,  although I think there is now more general agreement  that we have foiind a budget level which secures your  general approval,
8,2 Mr, President, one of my objectives has been  to develop a democratic system of consultation in  this Organization, We'have developed a long and ~  complicated system of consulting Member States and  consulting the Board at various stages in the deve-  lopment of the programme and thé budget.. You will  recall that, at Montevideo, the Conference resolved  to have more extensive consultation of Member States,  and we have gone even further on the basis of the  resolutions ddopted at New Delhi, The attitude of  the Secretariat has been to make this a genuine con-  sultation, and it has tried to respond as much as  possible to wishes expressed in one Conferance which  could not be fuifilled,: when preparing for the work to  be placed before thé following Conférence. -
8.3 The way we “proceed in the development of this  programme and budget is to prepare, in the first  year of each budget periôd, . a preliminary paper for  the consideration of the Executive Board; that paper  is sent to Member States for ¢omments, or they may  utilize it in instructing ‘their mémbers of the Board -  in the case of somé of the-countries - as to how they  should vote on the proposed programme and budget.  After a general discussion in which wé also take  account of idéas emanating from other international  organizations, governmental and non-governmental,  end views we pick up from various sources, the  Secretariat gêts to work seriously to prépare a  draft programme and budget,- This last time, we  did so as of 1. November of the first year after the  Conference, This is father fast work and it requires  that, in making the programme and budget, we Operate  without having had a great deal of experience with the  one in the course of execution, This makes us feel  that a suggestion made by one of the delegations, that  perhaps we ought to have a three-year rhythm instead  of a two-year rhythm, - is really worthy of serious  consideration. sue
8.4 Mr, President;- through the \houghttul work  of the Economic atid Social Counéil in asking the  Agencies to make an appraisal of their programmes,  we are in the position this time to give you some ideas  regarding the future that go beyond the next biennium,  and in 10 C/10 you will find some of our thinking as  to the future; which we hope will be given careful  consideration in this Conferénce. We recognize  that our present proposals do not take full account  of a great many ideas for Unesco's work. - We think  that in the future we must make some changes of   Xi PLENARY MEETINGS  emphasis, As I said in miy'address when 1 took office  in this Organization, ‘I think the programme of Unesco  is best planned and best understood in long-range  terms. Therefore, in order to muintain stability and  continuity, ‘we are proposing’ in this programme and  budget to carry on with some aétivities which, perhaps,  ought in the long range to be displaced by certain  others, :We hive Iridicated in 10 C/10 that we need to  readjust the emphasis somewhat, for instance, as  regards subventions to norñ-governmental organizations.
1 give that merely as an example; many others will  be discussed in the Programme, Commission and in  its spécial working parties, - “In short, Mr, President,  this budget does not refléct entirely what the Secre-  tariat regards as desirable, We think that Unesco is  in a position now to utilize effectively, and for the  achievement of the peace of the world, a considerably  increased budget. We are not proposing it, because  we are trying to behave as good servants of the General  Conference; = : .
8.5 There is one thing that bothers me a great deal:  these budget propôsais donot take into account, to any  very great extent, thé draft resolutions which have  been submitted by Member States, We have been able  to make a preliminary’ examination of mos} of these,  and we feel that it is for the Conference to discuss .  them in relation to thé proposals’ ‘placed before you by  the Director-General and the Board, arid perhaps to  give some of them priority over-pioposals we have  made. If you could do 80, it would help to have this  sum of something over $60, 000 added to the spending ~  budget by accepting alternative (pb) of the resolution  _ given in paragraph 5," We in thé Secretariat also have  other things we would very inuch like to do that are  not based on draft resolutions submilted by Member .  States, such as two projects in 10 C/5 Rev, Add. 4 and  - there is the Australian resolution on sclence,- for  which we would like to have some money, : We were  concerned, too, thal there is no provision in the  budget for the payment of rental of the non- , .* . :  governmental organjzaticns housed with us now, but -  which will have to move out of Unesco quarters at the  end of 1959, -We have also béeñ pressed by the Comp-  troller to make provision for some more posts, which  “will be discussed in the’ Administrative Commission, -
8,6 In the docamént dealing with-the draft resolu-  tions we have not given you any figures of cost; we  think a reasonable pricing,: in accord with’ our com-  ments tri that ‘document, might be in the neighbourhood  vof half à million dollars: ‘The programme directors  -would-like sdhiething élose to eight or nine hundred  thousand dollars for thé purpose, but we decided not  to bring you as amended budget proposal so as to  make way for these draft resolutions, -
8.7 Mr. President, as regards thé first parsgrar® |  of the Administrative Commission's second report, --  concerning the elimination of the undistributed appro-  priation; I must point out to you that unless you  accepted the majority opinion, as expressed in the .  ‘Administrative. Comniission, you would cause a great  deal of havoc tn’ the carrying out of the programme  that is before yous .. - ,
88 I must say one word about administrative costs,  and Here 1 will address myself merely to the question  of whether we have à' swollen bureaucracy in the  Organization. When this Conference met six years  ago at its seventh session, there were in the
202  Organization at Headquarters, in the New York  Oftice, the Havana Office and the Science Oftices,
447 professional posts, -not inéluding certain local  staff - I will also exclude these in my comparative -  figures; there are now 412, if we exolide from our  present count two groups of-staff that did not exist  in 1952, namely fourteen persons working in connexion  with the Arab refugee school programmé,‘ based in  Beirut, and four professional staff members in  connexion with the construction of the new Headquar-  ters, Thus, there has been’d reduction in professional  posts as compared with six years ago from 447 to
412 now, :in November 1958, - Mr, President, if we  break this'dowñ by gradés; but include here the 14  Beirut posts and the 4 for the Headquarters office,  we find that D-1!s andabove have been reduced {rom
23 to 21, P-5's from 39 to 37, P-4's from-125 to 115,  P-31s from 114 to 112; oh the other hand P-2!s have  Increased from 71 to 87, and P-1's have beén reduced  from 75 to 54, As regards the Generdl Service posts,  theré were 515 in 1952, ds against 566 at the present  time. A good many of these posts, however, are for  language services; we had no such services for  Russian in'1952, while the Spanish services have  been considerably expanded, Mr, President, I  think it is clear that if we have a swollen bureaucracy,  we have a much less swollen one than we had in 1952,  My own judgement, after studying this very carefully  and over a period of years, is that we have a stream-  lined Secretariat and not a swollen bureaucracy.  There ate many programme areas in which, if you  - cut a post;- you might as well abolish a section of our  programme, - -
8,9 , There has been some > discussion of concentra-  tion of the programme on bigger ideas, We are in  your hands in that matter; we think we are respond-  ing to your wishés in the proposals that we have made,  As to the administrative costs, "the Conferénce in  New Delhi was concerned about the administrative” '  management of the Sécretarial, and 1 supported’ as  Canadian resolution én this subject which, after -  consulted with the Board, ‘resulted lh my setting up  a management survey committee of three eminent  people in this kind of work, ‘They dealt with this:  administrative cost question and could not come to °  a firm corclusion,, They did not tind however, that  administrative costs were excéssivé and they asked  the Board and the Director-General to continue to  study the subject. This has beén discussed in the  Administrative Commission and I belleve it has  agreed that, this phase having been accomplished,  it is now for the Director-General and the Board to  continue their examination; to try to obtain further:  statistics of work load in various areas, and to see.  whether we can make additional economies in this  fleld;-. We have made economies over thé years in  regard to administrative costs, “We have consider-  ably reduced travel costs,‘ we have proposals before  the Conference regarding the reduction of documents;  the Board has already reduced the documentation of .  “ the Executive Board, and has placed proposals before  you to reduce somewhat the documentation of the  Conference,
8,10 Mr. President, there has been mention of  the Special Fund, All I wish to say now is that our  present budget pressures cannot conceivably be  relleved to any substantial extent by the operation of  '   PLENARY  the Special Fund, In tact, the Special Fund ‘will cause  us additional administrative work load, which we will  have to take on in many cages without any Increases  in the budget, We think it is 50 important for our .  Member States, however, - that we are. ready to give  the development and the administration of projects  under the Special Fund a priority sufficient to enable  the Secretariat to do the work, Mr, President, we  of the Secretariat want more money from you, that is  obvious, We would like to use every device possible  to have more money but, as I said again, wholly *  within the framework of trying to do things as you  wish them to be done, We have tried to respond as  - fully as possible to thé demands of a democratic  method of consultation which we have established.  The PRESIDENT; ;
1 wish to thank the Director-General, The first  speaker is Mr. lordan of the delegation of Rumania,
10,1 Mr. IORDAN (Rumanta) (Translation from the  French):  Mr, President, fellow delegates, the Rumianian  delegationts views wilh regard to Unesco's proposed  budget for 1959-1960 were made known by the head of  our delegation in his. speech at the plenary meeting on
10,2 We think that several arguments and sound  reasons can be advanced in'favour of maintaining  the spending budget for 1959-1960 at the level for  the preyious financial period, that is to say, at the  figure of $23,400,000, -. .:
10.3 Consideration of the way in which the budget  for 1957-1958 was applied confirms this point of  view and shows clearly, in regard to receipts, that  appreciable sums have not been collected. Paynients  actually made total only $ 20, 400, 000, representing  approximately 87% of the estimates, - It is therefore  wiser for us to keep to a more reasonable figure,  which would be entirely paid, and.not to allow of any  artificial inflation of- Unesco's budget for 1959-1960,
10.4 ‘In this connexion; ‘we cannot approve. the fact  thet, for,years past, thé {; *hina of Chiang Kai-shek  has failed to fulfil the elementary obligation of --  paying its contribution. For.instance; for the period
1948 to 1856; the arrears of contributions due from  Chiang Kal- shek!s China ‘amount to over $4, 606, 600,  representing more than 20% of the ‘ital cash contri-  butions during the financtäl pertéd 1957-1958," -
10.5 The Rumanian delegation wishes to state.  categorically that it has no intention of upholding the  presence of Chiang Kai-shek's China in Unesco. - The  _ financial aspect of the question serves merely fo.  strengthen our conviction that the présériée of Chiang  Kai-shek's China in Unesco ls lkewise unjustified -  from the legal, moral and political standpoints,
10,6 Nor.can we egree to.the inclusion, in the  proposed budget before us, of à large sum of more  than a million dollars under the heading of ‘’undis-  tributed appropriation": this seems indeed to be a  disguised way of pérpeluating the non- payment of  the aforesaid contributions, ".. :
10.7- ‘Regarding expenditure; we eel that there are  internal resources and real possibilities of saving.
4  For Instance, the administrative costs seém to us too,  heavy; they represent too large a proportion of the  total costs, and we should make every endeavour to  MEETINGS
203  - rization of this Conference.  Xm  reduce them, In this connexion, - ‘the proposal to ’  create a new post of Director of Administration seems  to us quite unacceptable, We should bear in mind that  the experlericé gained by the Unesco staff over a  period of years makes for an increasingly effective  working of 4 administrative machinery and a steady  rise in output,
10,8 In addition, the experiencé gained by | the  National Commissions for Unesco; and the éstablish-  ment of closer co-operation befweèn those Commis-  sions, will enable them to play an éver greater and  more effective part in the implementation of the  Organization's programme, Unesco's work must be  concentrated still further, in the future, on funda-  mental. problems of general interest, directly related  to the lofty aims proclaimed in the Organization's ’  Constitution,
10.9 In our'view, large sums should nôt be allocated  for purely sécondary tasks, which are not justified’  and are sometimes quite inexplicable, How is it  possible to ‘explain the allocation of a'sum of moré  than $42,000 to a Research Institute at Cologne, for  the investigation of minor questions of no scientific  interest?
10,10 In conclusion, the delegation of the Rumanian  People's Republic proposes that Unésco's spending  budget be maintained at the level of the estimates for  the period 1957-1958 and that the Executive Board  proceed to a new distribution and a new adjustment  of the expenditure by chapters, with due regard to  that level,  The PRESIDENT:  The next speaker is Mr, de Berredo Carneiro of  Brazil,
12,1 Mr." de BERREDO O CARNEIRO 0 (pré ——  lation from the French}i °° .  Mr. President, tellow delegatés; A ‘ak thé Confer-  ence {o äpprové the report présénted by thé Admini-  strative’ Commission and to give it full support.” with  regard to the budget ¢elling, Ido fot ask for an  increase in the {otal dssessments but merely for the  maintenance ‘ét the tolal assessmerils at’the level  fixed by the Director-General and thé Éxeclitivé Board,  Thé provisional total assessment on Membèt States  Would thus be $25;771;767, In mattéining this level,  vie should have to proceed to an ‘adjustment of the  spending budget, following a more ‘pretise estimate  of the ‘contributions unlikely to bé' received, which  would bé reduced from 5% to 4, 76%," “Withôlf any  increase in the assessments’oh Mémber Statés, we  would have a’littlè sum of about $63, 000 to add to thé  total spending budget:-" Thé 's ending budget resulting  from this operétion;- ‘which I heréfor & ask you to ’  approve; would be $25,070,463," 5 7 ve
12, 2° 1 should like,- ‘gentlénien, to express tô the  Diréctor-General our deep admniration for the work  he has done in preparing this proposed programme Ce  and budget, He is thé first té recognize that the sums  proposed by him; with thé Board's ‘appréval, ‘do rot"  meet all; ‘of éven à fraction of, our riéeds; bit he  was obliged to keép ‘within limits which neither he  nor the Board ¢ould éxceed ‘withou( Vie express autho-  It was thérefore within  the bounds of his possibilities that he fixed the pro-  posed spending level and assessment level, Emphasis’   xm PLENARY  is too often - and,. I fear, mistakenly - placed on,  somewhat heavy operational, staff and administrative  costs in.Unesco, .°. _-
12,3 - Allow me to point. out fiat of all that, if we :  compare the proportion of administrative costs to total  expenditure in Unesco with that in other international  organizations, we see that Unesco's situation in this  respect is very good, Also, if we made a detailed .  study of Unesgo's proportion of administrative costs  and compared it-with the expenditure of most of the --  government, services in our own countries, 1 am much  afraid that we would be found to spend relatively more  for administrative purposes at the national level than  Unesco does at the international level. :  - 12,4 Gentlemen, the proposal presented to you by  the Administrative Commission should not, in my.  opinion, lead you to reopen a discussion of a politiéal  nature, We have discussed this malter from morning  till night, with all the attention that should be given  to the views expressed by whatsoever Member State,  We resumed the discussion in the Administrative  Commission, : I feel that the time has now come to  consider the budget from a purely financlal standpoint,  in the light of Unesco's needs and possibilities,
13, The PRESIDENT}  Thank you, Mr. de Berredo Carneiro, I now call  on Mr, Zimin of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
14,1 Mr, ZIMIN (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  (Translation from the Russian):  Mr. President, ladles and gentlemen, in the Org:  izationts proposed budget for 1959-1960, submitted to  us for our consideration, provision is made for an  increase in the Organization's expenditure of. .  $3, 26, 890 over 1957-1958 with a corresponding in-  crease of $2,377,000 in Member States! contributions.
14.2 The delegation of the Soviet Union considers  that such an-increase, in the Organization's budget is  not justified, It is ‘mainly due to excessively high -  administrative and service ‘costs, and to the unlawful’  distribution among Member States of the Chiang Kai-  shek group's arrears of contributions, The remarks  made here by the Director-General and the Brazilian  delegate with regard to the amount of administrative  costs are not, in our opinion, sufficiently well-founded.
14.3 . The delegation of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics will make proposals; in dye time, in the -  appropriate commissions and working parties, for the  reduction - without prejudice | to the implementation of  the 1959-1960 programme - of those items of expendi-  ture which we consider excessive and unnecessary.  At present, we shall simply say, that the USSR dele -  gation is categorically opposed to the’inclusion of the  sum of $1,278,000 às- "undistributed. appropriation"  in the draft Appropriation Resolution; The USSR .  delegation has already had occasion to state that the  inclusion of this item in the Appropriation Resolution  is intended to disguise the constant: non-payment of the  Chiang Kai-shek group's’ ‘contributions, In the draft  resolution we are now. considering Cdotument 10 C/66),  it is proposed that the percentage of. contributions  unlikely to be received. be fixed at 4, 75 per cent. If .  you compare this with the fact that the Chiang Kai-shek  group's contribution represents 4, 71 per cent, you will  see that, under pretext of creating a reserve fund, it  is proposed that we plan ahead and, in fact, sanction  MEETINGS
204  the non-payment: ‘of the Chiäng Kai-shek group's  contributions,’ shifting to other Member States;  which honestly perform their own obligations towards  Unesco; the duty of paying what this group fails to  pay, The undistributed reserve fund is a disguised  increase ir the budget, designéd to cover the defici-  ency of funds that regularly occura owing to the  fact that the Chiang Kai-shek representatives still  have a place in Unesco,
14,4 Mr; President, during the discussion of the  Credentials Commiltee's report, the USSR delegation,  like the delegations of many othér countries, drew  attention to the harmful moral and politicdl conse-  quences entailed for Unesco by the anomalous and  quite unlawful fact that the Chiang Kai-shek group  still occupies a place in the Organization, During the  discussion of the budget, v:e aie again confronted  with this problem, which must now be considered frém  the financial standpoint, I, for each financial period,  our contributions are to be Increased by $1,279,000,  it is only natural that none of us can or should remain  indifferent.
14,6 During the general discussion, the Soviet dele-  gation stated that, henceforth, the Soviet Government  would not pay for the Chiang Kai-shek group's écritinued  “presence in Unesco at the expense 6f the Soviet people.  It is one thing to pay one's regular contribution for the  financing of Unesco's work, and another thing to ‘main-  tain in Unesco, at the expense of Member States, a  group of political bankrupts, The Soviet State spends  considerable sums on assisting many other countries  at their request, and, unlike the imperialistic States,  it does so quite disinterestedly, without imposing any  political or economie conditions, It 13 not a question of  the money, but of the purposes for which ft is used,
14.6 The Soviet delegation is of the opinion that no  country, no Member State‘of Unesco, can be compelled  to pay the arrears of thé Chiang Kai-shek group, We  therefore propose that the item "Undistributed Appro-  priation" be deleted from the draft. Appropriation  Résolution, and that the Organization's budget be  thereby reduced by $1, 278, 000, -: This reserve fund  is completely riécessary, it it 1s intended to cover  any temporaty delay in the payment of a Member  State's contributions. Such'cases may occur, but  they can be met by the Working Capital Fund; -the  latter offers the possibility of making up a Member.  State's temporary failure to pay its contributions,  tor Member States, as experience shows - the pre-  sent session of the General Conference has convinced  us of this - take all necessary steps to cover their  arrears, if the latter occur,’ and always do cover  them,
14,7 >In addition to the deletion of the tem ‘'Un-  distribüted- Appropriation, it is possible, in our  opinion, to make séveral other reductions, particularly  by cutting administrativé costs, staff travel and  unduly high service costs, We feél that, ‘if all these  unnecessary expenses are stopped, it will be possible  to keep Member States! contributions at their present  level and to carry out successfully all the projects  contained in the proposed programme for 1959-1960.
14,8 -- The Soviet delegation ts submitting a draft  resolutioti on this matter for the Conference's consi-  deration, We are confident that, if thé Director-  General and the Executive Board study all the exist-  ing possibilities of reducing certain unwarranted   PLENARY MEETINGS  expenses; it will rio longer be. necessary to increase  Member States! céatributions and thére will be no  lessening in the etflcienéy of Unésco's work, büt'a  proper balañce will'be éstablished between admini-  strative and programme’ costs,
14,9 © Grärit me leave, Mr, President, to read out  this draft resolution; presented by the delegation of  the Soviet Union, :  "The Genéral Conference;  Having éxaminéd document 10 cle Rev. ‘and Corri-  genda I and II therêto, :  Considering that the proposed increase of *  $3, 26, 890 in the Organization's budgèt is not justified  by the needs of the implementation of the Organization's  programme, set out in do umerit 10 C/5 Rev, , but is  due mainly to the incréase in administrative and ser-  vice costs, and to the tinlawful distribution among  Member States of the Chiang Kai-shek group's  arrears of contributions,  Decides to delete frori the draft Appropriation Re-  solution Part V - 'Undistributed. ‘Appropriation’ A  Decides further to fix the Organization's spending  level for 1959-1960 at $23, 908,676, and the total  assessments on Member’ States at $23, 394, 355, le.  at thé level of the contributions for 1957- 21958,  * Recommends the Diréctor- General of Urésco to  révise document 10 C/É Rev,, with a view to reducing  the Organization 's expenditure to the amount mentioned  above, but without prejudice to any of the main pro-  jects mentioned in thé said docuinent, and to submit  his proposals td’the Executive Board,  Instructs the Exécutive Board, at its session im-  mediately f6llowing the close of the tenth session of  the Genéral Conference, to consider and approve the  Director-Genérél's proposals for the reduction of the  administrative and service costs and certain other  expenses of the Organization not directly relating to  the implementation of the Organization's programme  as set out in document 10 C/5 Rev, and in the Addenda  and Corrigenda to that document, with a view to  ensuring that the Organization's spending level for
1959-1960 shall be $23,908, 676,"  The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the speaker, and I call now on Mr. Mac-  kenzie of Canada, -
16,1 Mr, MACKENZIE (Cénada): -  Mr. President, ladles and’ gentlemen, - before a  vote ts taken on thé réport of fhe Administrative  Commission, I should like to place on the record  tert,in views of the Canadian delegation, © In doing so,  wih ho emphasize that thé Gévérnmeént of Canada is  iy In accord with the objectives of Uneéco;' but  - sympathy with thé alms of Unesco should not allow us  - to ignore the finanélal and administrativé statütes and  the facts of life, - Uneséo competes for contributions  with many other thterñatiônal organizations, and Ît  must satisfy ‘governments and public opinion that it  spends money "wisely and well, My delegation is  glad to hôte that soma’ progress has béen made in  simplifying the ‘budget ‘estimates, but we think there  is room for furthèr progress, The programme and  * budget document still presents a rather confused  * pleture, and is difficult to analyse, For example, in  our view, the budget is inadequate in its explanations  of the way in which projéots are adopted and
205  Xi  expenditures made under the Participation programme,  Moreover it is less than satisfactory in'îts method of  establishing priorities, The Canadian delegdtfon : ;  wishes to volce its coricerh'at Unesco's téridenty tô  increase its programme ¢ and büdgët at’ ‘every Général  Conference, In the past we have taken ‘decisions, in  principle to concentrate the activities of the Organize-  tion'in'a’ relatively’ small mimber of projects of high  priority, but in fact we haye proceeded to expand the  Major Projects without reducing the number or variéty  of minor projects, The Canddian Government is ‘doubt-  ful of the value of some of these minor projects, it  suspects that in some cases part of the money allocated  to such projects 1s devoted to the proliferation of paper,  We would like to see the Secretariat and the Executive  Board make a determined attempt to accomplish more  without increasing staff,” and without increasirig thé  number and the size of Unesco documents, Until there  is evidence that the work of Unesco is niore effective  in respect of the results achleved, we think that Unesco  budgets should be stabilized at approximately the  present level, with'such increases as may be necessary  to cover increaséd costs arising out of increased prices  for goods and services, °
16.2 In conclusion, Mr, President, I wish to say -  that in spite’of thé reservations that I have mentioned,  the Canadian delegation is prepared to vote in favour  of the spending level proposed by the Director-General  in document 10 C/6 Rev. corrected. At the same time  we express the hope that in the next two years every  effort will be made to improve efficiency, and that the  budget to be presented in 1960 will envisage a pro-  gramme that concentrates on the major issues that  Unesco was created to serve.  The PRESIDENT: !  I thank Mr. Mackenzie and I now call on Mr, Maly-  chev, of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
18.1 ‘Mi, 'MALYCHEV (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic) (Translation from thé Russian) :  Mr. Président, fellow delegates, the delegation of  the Byelorussian Soviet Socfalist Republic fully  supports the proposal, presented by the Rumanian and  USSR delegations,’ that the budget ceiling for 1959-1960  should not excééd that for 1957-1958, Our delegation  supports this proposal én thé ground that a more econ-  omic and rational distribution of expenditure would  permit of full implementation of the projects included  in the ‘proposed programme for 1959- 1960 without  any increase in the budget.
18.2. As was pointed out, during the general discus-  sion, by the head of the delegation of the Byelorussian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Unésco's administrative  costs are unjustifiably high, It is therefore urgently -  - necessary to maké a considerable reduction in'admini-  strative and staff costs.” If work iy properly organized,  this reduction in costs should not be detrimental té the  implementation of the main pidjects In thé programmé.  Recommending that thé budget ceiling for 1959-1960  should be the same as that for 1957-1958, our dele-  .gation considers that the General Conference should  instruct the Executive Board and the Director-General  carefully to review the expenditure relating to all.  sections of the programme and Unesco's activity for  the coming period,
18,3 We also consider that the General Conference   Xi  should delete from the draft Appropriation Resolution  Part V - ‘Undistributed Appropriation" , i, 0, the  part relajing to the unlawfu} distribution among  Member States of the Chiang Kai-shek group's  arrears of contributions. Our delegation will vote  for a spending level of the same order as in 1857-1958,  and for the deletion from the draft Appropriation  Resolution of Part V - "Undistributed Appropriation",  The PRESIDENT!  I thank the speaker.  Hungary.
1 call now on Mr. Pataki, of
20,1 Mr, PATAKI (Hungary) (Translation ‘trom the  Russian):  Mr, President, ladles and gentlemen, allow me to  make a few brief general obseryations concerning  Unesco's proposed budget for 1959-1960, I shall -  speak of oaly one aspect of the budget, namely the  adniinistrative costs.  -.- :
20,2 . -In document 10 C/5. Rev, ys ‘i is said very  discreetly that for 1959- 1960 general administration  will represent 12, 27% of the total proposed spending  level, As regards "General Administration", these  figures are correct,- but, in reality, :the situation is  by no means so satisfactory. Statistics; Mr. Presi- .  dent, are an interesting science,. and their answer to  any particular question always depends on the way in  which that question is asked; In the presen} instance,  we must ask what is meant by Ahe.term “adritnistra-  tive costs", It is difficult to deny that this term  designates not only costs relating to general admini-  stration, . but all other costs relating to the work of the  Unesco programme deparfments in the fields of educa-  tion, science and culture. . ‘On that basis, Mr, Presi-  dent, the situation is unfortunately seen to be much  more sombre, ;, Annex VI to document 10 C/5 Rev.,  for. instance, - shows that the Seoretarial's base sal-  arles and common staff éosts for 1959 and 1960 -  amount to more than $ 12, 500, 000; We must'add to  this figure expenses relating to travel, ~the ‘publication  of official documents, representation, temporary -  staff, ete, ~All these expenses are par} of Unesco's  administrative costs. It.can be maintained,’ of course,  that some or.eyen the whole, of this expenditure ia an  organic part of. the implementation. of Unesco's pro-  gramme, but this signifies that the. implementation:  of Unesco's programme and the Organization's staff ~  are extremely costly, :On the basis of- Annex VI, it  can be said that, of the entire budget proposed for
1959-1960, only eight or;nine million dollars are  directly, ajlocated for. the execution of the programme;  in other words, .the distribution and utilization of the  $25, 000, 000 provided will cost approximately four-  teen or fifteen million dollars, This cannot be . -  called cheap: : it is'a good thing that Unesco is not -  obliged to work under competitive conditions; or no  would not last long with such overheads, ..
20.3’ That, Mr: President, is how the situation -  stands. It must be admitted that this state of affairs  does not contribute to Uneaco's popularity or its  influence in connéxion with education, soléncè and  culture; World public opinion is already watching  this situation with increasing disapproval and anxiety,  which hive been expressed by several speakers in  “plenary meeting,
20.4 ~The Hungarian delegation earnestly recommends
206  PLENARY" MEETINGE  that the greatest possible part of the budget be .  directly used for the implementation of the ‘programme  in the interests of Unesco!s Member. States; for small  countries like Hungary, this ig very important, We .  therefore cannot approve the budget in its present form,  nor the proposal that it be increased for the 1959-1960  period, We thus support the Rumanian delegate's  proposal,
20,5 Nor are we prepared to pay for ‘Chiang Kai-  shek!s illegal political group, - which is unlawfully  occupying the sect in Unesco belonging to the People's  Republic of China, For this reason, we support the  Soviet Union delegation's proposal,
21. The PRESIDENT;  I thank the speaker and 1 now call on Mr, - Demtchenko,  of the delegation of the Ukrainian Soviet Soclalist  Republic, : .
22,1 Mr, DEMTCHENKO (Ukrainian Soylet Soctal-  ‘ist Republic) (Translation from the Russian);  Mr, President, - fellow delegates, the, General .  Conference has been asked to consider two draft reso-  lutions presented by the Administrative Cémmission  in document 10 C/56, relating to the budget ceiling .  for 1959-1960; A draft resolution has now also been  submitted by the USSR delegation, The delegation of  the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic wishes to  explain its attitude towards these draft resolutions,
22,2 So far as the draft resolution on the financing  of the budget ‘is concerned, .we have.no objections.  to make. But we are unable to approve the draft  resolution relating to the provisional budget ceilings,  According to this draft resolution and the: Director-  General's ‘explanations; its proposed to increase _,  the spending budget by $3, 226, 890, as compared with  that for 1957-19858; which calls for a ‘corresponding  increase, in Member States! contributions. ve careful  to à any new, and useful programme. oo but to  excessiye administrative and service costs, The  increase in Member States! contributions is also due  to the unlgiytul distribution among Member States of  the Chiang kat shek group's contribution, : We thers-  fore suppor} the proposal for the deletion from the. ‘  draft A pore priation Resolution of Part V - the so-  called ndistelbuted / Appropr tation’! .- and reiterate  _ that the nretoian Soviet Socialist Kepubila will not  pay the portion of its contribution corresponding ic,  this distribited deficit’; 1. Le "1: LS  -In our opinion, the ratio of | programmé costs to ce 22.3 -  staff costs is all wrong. * For, 19597 :1960,- it is proposed  to allocate approximately $9,000, 000," {.e. more than  one-third of the Organization's total budget, for the -  base salaries of members of the Unesco Secretariat  alone, - If we take into aétount All other staff and -  service costs; we aréive at a sum’ of $12, 500, 000,  i.e. nearly half Unescois total budget, It 1s obvious  that such an expenditure of the Organization's,  resources cannot be accepted as expedient, It must -  be added that the experience acquired by the Unesco -  Secretariat during the twelve years of its existence .  and thé use of modern technical equipment; should -  lead to a reduction in staff and expenditure. rather than  to an increase in staff and staff costs.  -   PLENARY MEETINGS
22,4 For the foregoing reasons; the delegation of -  the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic considers that  Unesco's spending budget for 1059-1060 should be  maintained at the 1957-1058 level,” In’ our ‘opliion, ‘the  Executive Board should be instructed, after the close  of the tenth session of the General Conference; to’  consider the question of reducing’ ddministrative and  service costs and certain other costs fiot relating to  the execution of the Organization's essential projects, |  with a view to keeping the budget céfling at the 1957-
1958 level, This proposal is contained in the draft  resolution which has been presented by the delegation  of the Soviet Union, and our delégation will voté for  it,
22,5 If this proposal is not adopted, we shall be -  obliged to vote against the Administrative Commission's  draft resolution and the proposals put forward by the  Executive Board and the Diréctor-General with regard  to the provisional budget ceiling.
23, The PRESIDENT:  I call on Mr, Hanes of the delegation of the United  £ \tes of America,
24,1 Mr, HANES (United § States ot Amertea)  Mr. Président,- the délegation of the United States  supports the second report of the Adininistrative  Commission to thè Genéral Conference as presented  in document 10 c/s6, -and certainly supports the wise  comments made on it by the delégate of Brazil.
24,2 Comment has been mide this morning éoncern-  ing a relatively minor point fu that document to which  I would like to refer, the item favolving the percentage  of contributions unlikely to be received for 1959-1960,  ‘This results, as has béen noted by the delegate or  Biazl and by ike Director-Géneral, in the alternative  of ‘pthei reducing the tofal'assessments on Mémber  Stites by approximately: $67,000 or maintaining the  afsessmients unchangéd éñd inéreasing the spending  lnvel by approximately. $64, 000, In our opinion,  ifr; Président; ‘the latter alternative; as recotnmend-  id by” the Diréctér-General; namely. thatthe spending  level should bé'inéreased by $64, 000; leaving the  issesbinent level’ unchanged, is the morè reasonable  procedure,’ While the sum lavôtved is relatively small,  it Will'add a ‘certain amount of’ flexibility to our pro-  imme: which wé bélieve to be wise; i: --
443‘ ‘I would like to address’ myéelf particularly to  pr tan comments which have béeri made here {his  mérning by the delégate of thé USSR,’ and seconded  ; ol coutse by à number" of speakers frém Eastern  ‘ Europe: The USSR délegate,’ Sir, has mide several  comments and suggéstions, ‘As well 4s l'éhrd‘under-  ‘stand them; he stggests first that the procedure’ which  we aré being ‘askéd to follow, the ‘procedure’ ‘recom-  mended by the sécotid report ot: the ‘Administrative  ‘Commission, concéals’ som éthiilg ‘or. ôthér” concérning  the finanefal’ operations’ of the. Organization; He also  suggests In a resolution’ whith he put forward and  which; ‘I wish tô Say, We ‘oppose most’ strongly for  tedsonis which Will be made clear fn my coments -  - that the iter entitled "Undistribited Appropriations"  bé dropped from the budget, “Anid;' “presumably éorres-  poiiding to this, he suggests thal‘thé part of the -  Administrative Comrittee’s réport and suggested’  resolutiori dealing with éstablishing the 4: 75% figure  for contributions unlikely to be received be also
207     Xia  eliminated from thie Administrative Commission's -  report, He further suggests that the USSR, ‘and there-  fore ‘presumably à all of the other Soviet bloc countries;  will not pay some part of their asséssment, It is  "unclear to nie-éxactly what part this ‘1s; 1assume that  he means by this that they do not plan to pay 4.75%  of their assessment or some similar figure,”  Finally, Bir, he has recommended that everything in.  the Director-General's programme be approved and  carried out and implemented, but that this be done at  the level of dssessments which obtained during the  last bfennfum,; =
24,4 The USSR delegation {s entitled to any opinions  and recommendations and suggestions that it desires,  but 1 would like to make very clear the real implica-  tions and meanings of these suggestions and proposals,  which I'constder to be totally irresponsible and pur-  posely misleading. ;
24,6 Inthe first place, as to the suggestion that our -  procedure conceals something; if it cônééals something,  it conceals it only-from the delegate ot the USSR; :  because In the ‘Administrative Commission and during  the proceedings c ‘of thé Exécutive Board, the meaning  of our budgetary ‘procedure has béen debated very  fully, and I believe it is fair to say that-there 15 no  delegate on the Administrative Commitésion or on any  of the financial bodies of this Organization who is -  unaware of the reasons why thesé procedures are put  into the budgét; ‘ In the event, however, that théré is  any misundérstanding, 1 would like to make quite clear  my underatanding of this {tem of Undistributed Appro-  priations and of contributions unlikely to be. recelyed.  It has béen recognized:that there are certain contri--  butions unlikely to be received by this Organization in  any given year, In the coming biennium, the contri-  butions unlikely to be received are those of the Republic  of China: The case has, however, not always been  exactly the same, There have been occasions in the  past, there may be occasions in the future, when the *  delegations of other countries have for one reason or  anothei* bé€n iri the category of States’ unlikely to make  contributions during the coming blenhium, I partiou-  larly recall {6 the delegate of the USSR the situation '  that obtained In the early part of the nineteèn fiftlés, -  when there were'ôther countriés that were also in the  column of contributions unlikely to be received. Now,  Sir, this being the case, a procedure has been devised  which it seems lo us makes extremely good sense. -  ‘Rather than buildirig a programme’ and budget on a :”  figuée that is not to be' received,’ and then when’ that  “figure i8 hot received as ‘anticipated, cuttifig down on.  a programme and budget that Is'a ‘desirable’ ne; the -  procedure has béer followed of taking: ‘such'a situation  into account before étariing, and of selting aside i @æ +  tigaré unlikely to be recélved;’ ‘and théri of building à.  programine and budget on the ‘figure which is Mkely -  to be ‘fééelved, the figure that will result froin the"  contribution of Mémbers whichare expected | tô pay-  their assessment, ‘. This procédure, Sir; has been -  followed regularly, As far as | am aware, it does not  conceal anything. ‘ In thé present caso, the pérceñtage  of 4.75% has beén arrived at bécause that is almost -  exactly the percentage that is unlikely to bé received  - in the forthcoming biennium account for by thé. Chin-  ese contribution.’ The delégaie of the. USSR has -  suggested that we drop this item. - This’ suggestion is  one that he is at perfect liberty to niake, but if it   xm  comes to a question of concealing anything, let us not  “ concea} what it means to drop this 4. 76%. If the So-  viet Union wishes the budget to be: Feduced by 4,75  and that means the Director-General's programme as  suggested in his document, - then the Soviet Union should  say so, But if the 4, 75% is dropped, this means that  the Director; General is thén told to carry out his  programme, but with 4, 76% lèss money to do 80,  Therefore he is obliged to cut his programme - his  world-wide programme - not fn relation to any. speci-  fic part; but he must {ind some place In his total pro-  gramme, cnough saving, in order to make up that _
4,75%, If; by the way, (bis figure is maintained, but  the Soviet Unioh or any. other country fails 'lo pay its  full assessment by 4, 75% or any other percentage,  then such shortages also have to be made up by the  Director-General by cutting some part of his pro-  gramme, because he will not have received sufficlent  money to carry it out,
24,6 1 do not know what more irresponsible proposal  could be made, ‘than that a country should not pay some  part of its assessment simply because it does not  like an item in the budget or in the programme, or  does not like the method by which that item is arrived  at. -Any country, Sir, is perfectly at liberty to come  up here and argüe during our debate, tô speak in the  Administrative Commission, to speak in every other  body of this Organization, during the time that the  programme and budget is béing formulated, - It can  debate any matter on which it disagrees, it can pre-  sent its argument, and it can seek support.
24.71; Once, however, the matter has been settled,  and the programme and budget decided upon by a  majority vote, and assèssments made, then it seems  to me that there is no altérnative for any country,  Member of this Organization; as long as it is in a pos-  ition to pay.its assessments; than to’ do so, This lis  absolutely basic to any type of orderly operation of  this or any other Organization, If contributions by  each Member State were decided only on the basis of  projects that it likes or indeed only on the basis of  other countries, Members of, ihis Organization, that  it likes of does not like, then 1 strongly fear that we  would rapidly reach a state of anarchy which would  make {t impossible to carry out any type of operation  whatsoever..::. -+
24,8 » The last polat mientiofied by the delegate of the  Soviet Union, was that we should carry out the full.  programme of. the Director-Cieneral, a programmé ,  properly expanded to take account of: changed cireum-  stances in.thé development of the Organization, but  that. we should carry it out at exactly the same cost  as the smaller programmé we carried out during the  preceding biennium when, Anéldentaliy, costs wère  lower, : I do not really think jt is neçessary.to point  out the bas{o'indonsistencles/ and agal, the mis-  leading character, of such a .proposal, I can only  surmise for what reasons. {t was made: _..,
24,9 . As for the question of the growth of the budget,  the Soviet Union has. proposed that the. budget should E be  set ata lower level; Leaving aside the question of.  - programmes, . perhaps there is some validity to, the ;  argument that budgets should be lower;- let us examine  this, Let us assume that the proposal is merely | that  .the whole budget, and therefore presumably the pro-  - gramme, should he at the lovel of the past biennium,  The budget of Unesco, Mr, President, like the budgets
208°  PLENARY MEETINGS  of the United Nations itself, - and, of! the. other Spedfale  ized Agencles, has grown; very. greatly. over the years  since 1946, - This growth is quite apparent, if one  considers only the regular, budgets of the ‘Organization,  but it is even more dramatic, if one “considers, all ©  sources of inçome available to Unesco to carry out  its work, including funds from the Expanded Pro-  gramme of Technical Assistance. The new. United .  Natlons Special Projects Fund wili also undoubjedly  further extend Unescofs ability to : serve,. in some, way  and in some degree not yét determined, Growth is -  a healthy thing, and indeed jt is ant of the character-  istic attributes of à living organism which distinguishes  it from a defunct one, My Government supports the  principle that Unesco should grow year by year, so  long as it exists in a world in which | the need for its  services exceeds the supply. The fiélds of science  aud education have one of the most rapidly expanding  frontiers of any fields of human knowledge. | The, .  Director-General's report itself demonstrates the  need for work by Unesco in new fields, some of them  undreamed of only a few years ago. At the same  time the Organization must continue and expand the  useful endeavours in which it has already been en-  gaged for many years, All of this means growth,  necessary healthful growth, which is just as inevit-  able as it is desirable, This does not mean that any  proposal is automatically a wise and desirable pro-  posal simply because it will result in an expansion of  activities, Obviously there are certain limitations  on growth which must be observed by any prudent  orgenization,
24,10 The first is that the assessments to its  Members shall. not rise to a point where they place  an intolerable strain upon the national budget of some  of tht: Member States, In this connexion, we must ‘  remember that Unesco is only one.of many interna:  Honal organizations to which our members contribute,  À second and not less Amportant factor 1s that every  proposal for increased activity must be justitied  both on its own merits and comparatively, vis-à-vis  other possible activities of the Organtzation, - Such  justification must also take into account the ability  of the Organization effectively to carry on its current  activities, and to assimilate new activities as proposed.  In fields such as education and scientific progress, :  the most abundantly provided. ‘material resources and  money are worthless unless highly trained men and  women are available to plan and supervise their use,  There is a definite limit to the number of such trained  people who can be found to carry on programmes.  And there is a definite limit to the number of untrained  pecple who can be trained in any one year, Nor can  the time required to produce such ‘people be shortened  merely by, providing more money, - Lit takes for -  example," $10, 000 and ten years to produce a highl  trained physleist, $20, 000 ts not going to produce him  in five years, -
24,11 . Lhope, Mr, Fresidont,- jou. vil forgive ihis  digression, My. purpose was merely, to make, :very  clear the objectives of my. Government with regard  to the future of this and similar organizations. We  believe they should, continue, as they have in the past,  to grow; we believe they should do so at a reasonable  and prudent rate consistent with the capacity of the  Organization to use, and the ability of the members  to provide,   -¢ases we have not pad the opportunity  PLENARY MEETINGS
24,12 ‘Now the proposed programme and budget  which we have béen offered for 1959-1960 has been in.  the process of ‘development for the past two years, «  "It'represents a tremendaus amount of careful and -. |  export thought on the part of the Director- "Genie: ai and  his staff, on the part’ of many other persons froin'out-  side the Organization aj d the Member States theme.  selves, -It reflects both ihe thinking of the Member  " States at previous sessions of the General Conference  and continued further thinking by the Member Stafes  in their comments on the proposéd programme and .  budget and tn ‘thé deliberations of the Executive Board,  The proposed programme and budget suggests that -  about $ 2, 200, 000 in édditional funds should be devoted  to Unesco's operations . in this biénniumi às compared  with 1957 and 1958, This is an approximate increase  of 10% over the biennium, roughly speaking a rate of  increase of about’ 6% a year, The United States  representative on the Executive Board, Sir; has con-  sistently supported this proposed increase at approxi-  mately such a rate and approximately for the purposes  that have been suggested, ,
24,13 The ‘proposed programme’ and budget, - as!  say, represents d great'deal of careful thought, It  has been carefully prepared, It has thereby  attained through’ its various changes and processes of  development; and the long consideration given to it  by the Exeéutive Board in 1957 and again during almost  two months in 1858, a’ very considerable status which  should be recognized, - There should be a strong pre-  sumption in favour of the programmes presented In  this budg*, A; seems to me, in comparison with other  program”; » ‘and proposals, - Now this does not méan  that the propojels which have been made more recent-  ly, some of theri within recent weeks, do not deserve  very careful consideration. My Government has -  itself submitted teveral proposals; wè feel’ they are  wise, or-wè would not haye submitted them; but we ‘  recognize that théy, like other. proposals thai have  been submitted, hve not gone through the loi | ‘and  careful process of development ‘that this programme  and budget has does We also recognize. that ih many  ‘ot consuliing  with othér gover a concerning these proposals,  Similarly new proplisals have been submitted by others  which we have riot \d in opportunity to study fully,  These matters should be considered it seems t6'us  during the ‘course of (his’ Conference, What result  this will lead to, I do not know; ‘I do say that’ these’  proposals should be regarded as of somewhat lesser  - status, ‘in general principle, - than those ‘which have:  béen developed carefully à aver the past two years, -  However, as the. Director; ‘General | himself has sug-.  gested, we may find’ among ‘these new. proposals some  that we ‘consider of event greater merit, than some of  the proposals in the draft programme,’ “A certain  amount of reasonable flexibility, it seems to me,  should go into our careful’ consideration of these’ $s  matters, and this should take place | inthe: Programme  Commission. ‘ ‘However, as'a general rule;: if seems  to us that this should bé done, as nearly as possible;  within the framework of the careful proposals that’  the Director-General and his staff have made both .  for our programme and for our budgat, For these’  reasons, Sir, I should like to state that.my delegation  . supports the proposed programme and budget in its  broad outline; we support the provisional ceilings
209  X11  suggested, and we strongly support the second report  of the Administrative Commission, which we urge be  accepted.  " The PRESIDENT!  I call now on Mr, Matsui of Japan,
26, 1: Mr, MATSUI (Tapes) ‘(Translation from the  French}:  ‘Mr, Président, fellow delegates, we have heard  the Diréctor-Geñéral's detailed explanations concern-  ing the extremely careful préparation of the programme  and budget for 1959-1060,
26,2 - The documents before you have beén studied  in ‘detail by the Executive Board, both from the stand-  point of the programmes themselves and from the  administrative angle, ’
26,3 The Administrative Commission of the General  Conférence has just concluded its thorough examination  of this question. The Japanese delegation therefore  proposes the adoption of that Commission's second  report,
26,4 - Regarding the total. assessment level, I endorse  the Brazilian delegate's proposal and am of opinion  ‘that the total assessment should be maintained at the  level of $25,771,797; the ‘spending budget would then  be $25,970, 463, taking account of the new estimate  of 4,76% as the percentage of contributions unlikély  to be received and of the additional sum of $63; 929  resulting therefrom, ‘ This would uñdoubtedly allow  of some flexibility in the consideration of the draft  resolutions already presented by Member States or  which may be presented by tomorrow morning,
26.6 Regarding the proposals for a reduction in °  the budget level, I vénture to say that, in-rmy opinion,  this is neither practical nor advisable at the present  moment, The General Conference should fulfil  its obligation to take a decision on the programme and  budget and not repeat what took place at New Delhi  owing to an entirely exceptional circumstance,
21, Thé PRESIDENT:  by “hank 3 you, ‘The next speaker is Sir Edward Boyle,  of the United Kingdoni,
28,1 Sir Edward BOYLE (Untied Kingdom): NE  Mr, President; I will not detain thé session for  many finutes, but Iam happy to coñie to this ‘rostrum  to support the proposal that has been made, among  others, by the delegates of Brazil and of the United  States of America. 1 do so with all thé more pleasure  because, -in past Contèrences;- the dolegailon of thé  United Kingdom and the secs bring ol ore, of  Brazil      tes,  say about growth. - 1 agree with him, but I think- that  most peôple would say ‘that with individuals and with .  organizations, it can sometimes depend on the direc-  tion in‘which the growth 15 made, 1 notice that the  proposal we have before us involveé no increase in.  thé assessment levied on Member States themselves,’  on the basis of which the British Government consi-  dered its policy in regard to the budget of this Organ-  ization, Furthermore, we have listéiied and been .:  much impressed by the’argument used, among others,  by the Director-General and the delegate of the United   am ; PLENARY"  States of Apierica, : They have drawn our attention to  the difficulties under the present time-table. included  in our Rules of Procedure, for Member Statés propos-  ing draft resolutions with budgetary implications,  The Rules are; however, to be. considered for amend-  mentat a fu ure dates: :. onl
28.2 In these circumstances we shall vote, - as a  delegation,: in favour of including, in the, resolution’  on this budget ceiling, a figure of $35, 870,000 for .  the spending lave) and $25, 771; 000 for the assessment  level, : This does not of course necessarily imply. ..  that the United Kingdom is committed to all the details  of the programme, or indeed all the administrative  details on the basis of which this budget has been con-  structed, but I certainly very niuch hope, as does the  whole of the British delegation, that any criticisms  which we will feel bound to make on certain matters  of detail, will be balanced by positive proposals for  . its improvement, Thank you very much Mr, Presi-  dent,
29. The PRESIDENT:  I call now on Mr. von Triltzschler of the Federal  Republi of Germany,
30, 1} Mr. ‘von TRUETZSCHLER (Federal Republic  of Germany); : -  Mr, ‘President, the Federal ‘Government and the  German National Commission have studied with  special attention the programme and budget proposals  submitted by the Director-Genera} after very care-  Axl examination by the Executive Board, : .:-
30.2 We accept the general Mines of the programme  and,’ in consequence, are prepared to vote for the  budget ceiling proposed. by the administration, How-  ever, we have.taken this decision with a certain mis-  r,-sing, that continued increases in thé ‘budgets of all  Speqialized Agencies of the United Nations might put  a very heavy burden on Member States, My Govern-  ment therefore welcomes (he decision taken by the  Economic and Social Couricil of the United Nations to  make a survey conterning the future work of the .  Specializéd Agencies,- and thé financial implications  involved, We hope that this study will lead to a  stabilization of the budget of our Organization in the  manner indicated by the honourable delegate of Canads,  and thatwe shall not again be faced with a considerable  augmentation of financial demands at our next Con-  ference. .  ai, “The PRESIDENT: .
1 call now on Mr. Bender, of tne Netherlands,
32,1 Mr. "BENDER (Netherlands): 0;  .Fellow delégates,:thé Netherlands delegation does  not wish at this point to enter. into considerations on  the programirie or budget of Unesco, it wants to limit  itself to a statement on the report of the Administra-  tive Commission, 10 c/ss, hich we have before us  “now, tu,
32,2, Mrs: President, we are prepared to accept.  ‘this report on thé manner of financing the budget,” In  the Administrative Commission we have pointed out  that we would have prefered to see tne figure of .
5% instead of 4, 76% for contributions unlikely to be  received, but the majority of the Commission wished:  the lower figure and we do not wish to reopen that
210     MEETINGS  question, As to the budget celling, the Netherlands:  - Government 1s prepared {0 support the figure pr  by the Director-General and the Board of 8787 000, 170  as assessment levol and $25,970, 000 as the spending .  budget, . This latter figure includes the sum of approx-  imately 963,000 resulting from the application of the  above 4. 75%, We would like, formally, to move the  adoption of the report of the Administrative Commis-  sion in the above- -mentioned sense.
38. The PRESIDENT:
1 call now on Mr, Kuznetsov of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics,  - HL Vl
34,1. Mr, KUZNETSOV (Union of Soviet Soolalist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian): .  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr, Zimin  has to take part in thé work of the Programme Com-  mission, | have asked to speak in reply to Mr, Hanes!  speech;
34.2 Itis evident that elther Mr, Hanes himself  invented something or there was an error in the inter-  pretation, although + and this must be emphasized +  the interpreters do their work excellently, He ..  accused the Soviet delegation of complaining that the  Administrative Commission was concéaling something  from us. 1 listened carefully. to Mr, Zimin's speech  and the word he used was "cover" and not "conceal",  We stated that we would not cover the Chiang Kai-shek  group's arrears, - No one conceals anything from us;  it would be difficult to conceal anything from us, .:We  have learnt to analyse budgets in detail, -The fact is  that we are unwilling to cover unjustified expenditure;  we are unwilling to cover expenditure attributable to  the Chiang Kai-shek group. Cover", not "conceal",  Perhaps there was an error in the interpretation, but  perhaps Mr. Hanes was very anxious to devise some-  thing against var. l'do not know whose fault it is, but  there has beer a misunderstanding; no one - has con-  cealed anything from us;:-it would be difficult to con-  ceal anything from us;: but we say that we will not  cover the arrears of the Chiang Kai-shek group; - let.  its bosom friends pay its arrears; we will have nothing  to do with it! You say that normal growth is necessary;  yes, normal growth is necessary, but, when a malig-  nant tumour.is growing, then,- with all due respect, it  cannot be regaided as normal growth. Growth must  be on a healthy basis. 0. -
34,3 “You ask how we think the programme ‘should .  be impleménted if We adopt this resolution, We think  that it should be impleraented by way of rational trans-  fers within the budget, . It is easy to propose an in-.  crease of three million dollars, but'we must consider  whether it is not possible, within the limits of the —-  present budgét, to carry out the programme without  overburdening Member States with unnecessary con--  tributions: 1 repeat, wé do not wish'to be niggardly.:  Firatly, mohey is not to be picked up from the ground;  and secondly, iit 1s not a question of grudging money;  but every dollar represents our peoples! toil and we '  must account for every dollas thats spent - and every  dollar: must be spent advantageously. ‘Our State--  spends large sums on cultufal assistance to countries ‘  asking us for it; but this assistance is always based  on'useful and reasonable proposals, In such cases, -  we do not seek any advantage for ourselves, but always  ‘ endeavour to ensure that the money is actually used.   PLENARY MEETINGS  for the benefit of the countries n peed of ft,:
34,4 You ask what is to be done if a 54  debt, In such cases, .use can be made of the Working  ‘Capital Fund, We can wait; the Working Capital Fund  enables ys to wait. We can wait until the State con-  cerned is able to pay, Wa can expect nothing from  the Chiang Kai-shek group; it will never pay, and  we cannot, therefore, under any circumstances,  approve a budget which is artificially inflated in'ad-  vance by more than 4%, ;
34,3 You are afraid of anarchy, Although we are  now discussing the matter, you are already haunted  by the spectre of anarchy, I think it ie still premature  to speak of such a thing, I fully support Mr, Zimin's .  remarks and request that a vote be taken on our  proposal,  The PRESIDENT: -  As the last speaker on the list, I call upon  Mr, Petrov, of the delegation of Bulgaria,
36,1 Mr, PETROV (Bulgaria) (Translation from  the Russian): 0° be Co  Mr, President, fellow delegaies, the Bulgarian  delegation considers that, in the budget for 1959-1960,  there are several sound and well-conceived projects  and activities, which are deserving of our support.  In this respect, the Sécretariat!s endeavours merit  our backing, - Whén, however, ‘we are asked to ap-  prove an increase: of expenditure by $3, 139, 000, we  must consider this proposal very carefully, because  the total amount of our. contributions is thereby  increased by $2,377,000, « Lee
36.2 It must be pointed out, first of all, that, al-  though certain figures can be explained in one way or  another, one thing Is quite incontrovertible - the  fact that we are paying for an jmaginary member who  has no right to sit among us; in other words, we are  paying for the Chiang Kai-shek group. . Paying as we  are for this group, .we are at the same time assuring  "it (Rat we recognize 1ts’right pot to pay its contribu-  tions in the future, Jn our opinion, -this situation is  not only inadmissible from the financial and admini-  sirative points of.view, but, as was stated by the head  of our delegation; Mr, Bachev, it is also impossible  from the political standpoint;" we cannot, and never  will, accept such a situation, : ---.--. ; ,
36,3 - We consider that it §s possible to reduce the  budget for 1959-1960 by reducing the Secretariat's  intemal reserves, When,’ in the Administrative Com-  mission, we discussed the report of the Management  Survey Committee, it became clear to us that such.  possibilities exist now and'wWill consequently exist in  the future. It 1s thereforé essentlal to study this. :  question and ascertain which of these staff posts. .  duplicate otig another or are not entirely indispensable,
36,4 The administrative machinery must be care-  fully examined once again; and even more caréfully  than it was by the expert committee, This was also  ate ‘runs into"  =
211  . sums should be Spe  Xi  . recommenddd by, other delégates, namely, those of  the Soviet Union,’ Rumania, ‘Hungary, and eyen Canada,  all of whom noted the existing possibilitiès in this  respect, which the Secrelarlat should study in order  to discover where future savings might be made,
36.5 We conajder that the development of our  , Organization is an entirely natural phenomenon, but  that it should follow a definité direction, i,e, that  more money should be spent on abaolutely essential  activities which are in line with Unesco's aims and  ideals, and not on {rivial undertakings which merely  - involve financial outlay without making any significant  contribution to Unesco's work,
36.6.. There is, for instance, an Institute which  could be thoroughly investigated and on which a detin-  fte decision could be reached; this is the Cologne
36.7 er t  posals presented by the delegates of Rumania, Hungary  and other delegations, which merit consideration and  attention from the Secretariat,
37.1 The PRESIDENT: * _. _ ,Ç  Fellow delegates, as the chair sees it, we have  bôfore us two motions; one presented by, the delngate  of Rumarila, supported by the Unfon of Sovie( Socialist  Repubilcs and other delegations, that the budget level  for 1959-1960 be the same as for 1957-1858, The  othér motion presented by Brazil, supported by the  delegate of Canada and other speakers, is that we  approve Le ve jommendation of the Administrative  Commissiez; -especlally as set out in paragraph 5(b)  of document 10 C/66, . 111
37.2 1 shall put to the vote firat the motion presented  by Rumania and supported by the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics, . - . Le  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
37.3 . The motion is rejected by 9 votes in fevour,
43 against, and 3 abstentions, PEE  "37.4 .. I now put lo thé vole the second motion, .  presented by Brazil, supported by other delegates,  that the report of the Administrative Commission,  document‘10 ¢/56, paragraph 5(b) ba adopted, -  {The vote was taken by a show of hands.) _
37,5 The motion has been adopted by 48 votes in  favour, 9 against, and 2 abstentions,  The meeting rose at 1,15 p.m.