14 November 1958, at 10,30 a, m,  President: Mr. Alfredo CALCAGNO (Argentina)  CONTENTS  General discussion of the Director-Genéral's Reports andof  the Proposed Programme and Budget for 1959-1960 (con-  clusion): Speech by the delegate of the Dominican Republic  Reply by the Director-General . © « + 6 + 4 0 0 4 0000  GENERAL DISCUSSION OF THE DIREÉTOR-GENERAL'S  REPORTS AND OF THE PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND  BUDGET FOR 1839-1989 (conclusion)
1." The PRESIDENT: {Translation from the Spanish):  Féllow delegates, this’ morning we are to continue  and conclude the’ discussion" on the Director-  General's Report ‘and on the Programme and Budget  for 1959-1960, I call upon the delegate of the  Dominican Republic, cts
2,1 =~ Mr, PEIGNAND CESTERO Dbritntein Repub-  le) (Translation from the Spanish); "+  © Mr, President,” ‘fellow delegates; I wbild ke test  of all to give publié’ éxpressiôñ to the grätitidé‘ felt by  the delegation ‘of the Domintéan Répüblic tô' this”  - Géneral Conférence of Unesco, ‘tor the great consi-  deration shown’ to‘ustin the Organization's’ new Head-  quarters.” I'would also like to thdnk thé authorities  of the great Frendh nation, 80° ‘mich beloved by the -  Domini¥an Republié, for the mary‘ courtésiés we have  récelved from thëm, It ls’oûr wish and j prayér that  France, thai coufitry’ of long tradition, may be-  blessèd with ‘ mafiy. years of good fortünê and’ may ‘éon-  tinue to'be the*lévish atid hospitable hôte‘ of Unesco:
2,2": We have giyéh'éaretil ‘Gonsideration to thé’ Re- :  “port of the Diréètor-Génefal and to the proposed  x3  y'dégree of  it all thè mésalires ‘and el included i the pros  posed prôgrarime ate eatried'éut,- all'thé‘natièns of  the world, united by the’ noblé aks’ forged by Unéseo,  will ‘benéfit tonsiderably - - and ‘this fait will go far to  promote the cause ‘of | Peace and brotherhood among  men. :
2,3 It must be admitted that the Diréctor- General  has devotéd himself body and soul to ‘the’ éduse of  eduéattôn, -geténce’ ‘arid cilture which fs advocated and’  upheld by Unéséô. Dri Evans deservés warm °  applause and gratitude for his skiltul diréétion of the  Organization in the interests of the furtherance of  “peace throughout our ‘sorely-tried world, In paying:
234  him this well-merited tribute, I feel confident that I  am expressing the feelings of all the delegations reprè-  sented here,
2.4 Our gratitude is'also due for the work done bÿ /  the present’ Executive Board, Settirig aside their per-  sonal interests, {ts members have devoted their utmost  efforts to serving thé cause of peace and understanding  among mankind, by means of education, science ‘and’  culture,” -
2,5 The Govétñment of the‘ ‘Domtnicañ Republic has  unreséfvedly acceptéd the Constitution of Unesco and  is applying it té the full by means of educational pro-  grammes whose bénefits dre “extended to ‘ail classés  without any form of ‘élsérimination, - ‘Every | levél' of the  community is receiving advantage’ front the ‘compre -  hensive! educational’ programme làtrodücea, inmy ”  country, inspiréd and difectéd by’ ‘that great léadér and  eminent Statesman, Generalissimo’ Dr “Rafael Leofiidas  Trujillo Molina)! upon whom ouft ‘peopl n'ai eloquent  tribute of érâtttudé; have- cotiféfred thé Xitië ‘of First  Teacher of the Nation, - Great ‘efforts are béing made :  to givé full effect to Unesco's Major Projects  peclally  as régards the extension ‘of primary edueatiol; thé  trainihg'of qualified téachers and the’ eradication of >  illiteracy. ‘ Twelve million dollars’ are ‘being’ ‘spent by  the Dominican Republi¢; ‘during the ‘present ‘aéademic  yéar, ‘in applying’ the extensive programmé ‘drawn i up  by ttie Government fri'thé current financial years
2.6 Our cities at present häve a total of 716 primary,  secondary, vocational and special schools, while
3; 600 educational Institutlons ave spread ‘évèr the rural  areas, Nearly halt à ‘million children and young people  aré enrolled, Ghd wheréver a group of more than 5.  school-age’ ‘children is found, ‘the Gôverniment ‘  imméedtatély aFranges for the’ opening of a schooi to  provide them' with primary eduéation,‘ which is free  and compulsory, in accordance with the terms of our  Constitution,
2,7     to read and write, and to pain ther hy funda-  mental education, As'thé résult of a trefiendous effort,  and in pursuance of an ‘edicational | programme’ which  perhaps has no paiallel on'thé continent of América,
12, 116 schools have been'opened to promote education   xvi  EE h2-  and literacy among ad a hiring a ds tive years.  - The  national census of 1036 revealed the distressing fact  that 74% of the adult population was Mitérate,. In .
1950 a census indicated 57% of illiterates; thanks to  our nation-wide Literacy campaign the tigure has now  been reduced to 33, 9%,. and the National Government  has set itself to eliminate illiteracy entirely by 1963,  which will mark the centenary of our natlonal restora-  tion; the campaign based on the present programme  will conclude at the end of that year, .
2,8 :Many specialized courses and seminars have  been’organized to train teachers for this vast éduca-  tional!programme; a Faculty of Philosophy, and +  Education has been added to our. National Universil,.-  the first in Amer{ca - and we have also opened two  rural teacher- training schools, four national teacher-  training colleges where the .students are resident and  receive State scholarships, and a number of rural  pilot schools where the teachers receive practical  training in teaching methods and in the correct inter-  pretation of the. curricula for a comprehensive rural  education course, :. 1*. ,
2,9 1 should like to take advantage of this oppor  tunity to call the attention of all members of the |  Unesco family to the advisability of adopting a, resolu-  tion'to the effect that every country. should introduce  in its rural areas study plans and curricula which,  though adapted to the rural environment, should at  least cover a period as long as the primary course  provided in the towns, .It is discriminatory and un-  just to follow the practice, at present, adopted in ._  many countries, whereby a six-year gourse or cycle  of stud'es is provided in almost all towns, while rural  districts haye only two-year or three-year courses -  so that millions of children: leave their. rural 8ehools  without having acquired the educational. -foundation  necessary for.a full appreciation of all aspects of the  programmes to promote, international understanding ,  which are devised by the members of the Unesco  family as part of- the. ‘great campaign to consolidate  peace and the brotherhood of mankind.: The study. .  plans of all countries shopld be identical, throughout  the world, in that they should provide, in rural areas  and towns alike, a primary eycle of not less than six  years. Only thus shall we be able to give ‘our children  the intellectual and spiritual basis necessary, for the  faithful interpretation of the noblest aspects of human  dignity and the lofty aims for which we are all working  in this great Organization, oo  :3., The, PRÉSIDENT (Translation from ‘the, Spanish):  Thank you, ‘The address by. the delegate ¢ of the, .  Dominican Reppblic. brings us to the end of the list of  those wishing te speak in the debate on the Report of  the Director-General and the Programme and Budget  for 1859-1960, We are now to hear the Director-  General's reply to that debate,  merLy i PRECTOR-GENERAL ©.
4,1 ‘The. DIRECTOR-GENERAL:  Mr, President, gentlemen, I wish first ot all to.  join with the delegates who have thanked France for  being the seat of this Conference, for having provided  read and‘
234  PLENARY MEETINGS  us with a. great leader In ‘ education as our Président,  toi having fade I} possible for us to construct our  great new Headquarters buildings, Iam glad that 50°  many of you have expressed pleasure’ at the character  -and spirit of the buildings as a éymbol of tne ‘great  ideals of Unesco, as'well as a cômfortable place for  - the conduct of our’ york, 1 regret that some of the  rooms are not sufficiently large to accommodate  adequately some of the working parties, We decided  only recently, relatively speaking, to have programme  working parties which could include all Member States,  long after the rooms were designed for special and  limited working parties,
4,2, ldo not deserve credit for the design of these  buildings, ; because. ie Contérénce accepted the plans,  then in 9, rather sketchy staté as regards details, be-  fore | was, appointed Director-General; It has merely  been my job to construct the buildings within the  budgetary limitations laid down by thé General Con-  ference, We in thé Secretariat have been responsible  as we went along” for making certain changes; some  of them werè inevitablo, others we thought were highly  desirable, buf the principal gredit for these buildings,  in terms of the Secretariat's. participation, belongs to  my predecessor, |
4,3 I wish to express thanks. to the Éhatrman ot the  Executive Board for, his kind yemarks about the colla-  boration. which has existed in the past two years be-  tween the Executive Board, and myself. it has been my  effort to aid the Board in sjrengthening its rôle in the  Organization, both’ as regards, its relations with the  Secretariat, “and ds regards its relations. with the  General Conference, : It has always’ seemed to me, as  I told the Board. shortly: after taking office; that the  Board should play a a stronger. rôle in giving leadership  to the General Conférence in I programme matters and  in administrative and financial matters, 1 said this  even before the: Board b hd been conyerted into an  organ ‘that represente refines 1! have on Pocaston  these; and. to my. mind : a very oh ry one, is the -  matter of charges, in work plans; ‘We, now go, to the I  Board with Araportant changes in work plans, consult ,  it and sometimes ask, it for, its’ approyal, - ‘before we .  make those, ‘changes, Some people. have regarded this  as, asking the Board to de too much’ work, but I have -  thought that it was important enough to have ‘the Board  undertake this, despite the | additional burden that it has  placed upoñ thé ‘Board.
4,4. The .Boârd also has bean s {asked tg ‘ta ta f  sideration and givé. me adviçe. concerning Le dota con  at the P-5 level, as well a s al. the higher. levels, where  it was ‘previously, consulted. ‘The, Board gives’ me. ;  great help {n regard to the, matter of appointments, : i  takes account’ of: ‘geographical distribution 1 lh the "appoint-  ments, but it also takes aécount ot, questions of, com-,-  petence, partictlarly’ with reference ta posts of D- 1.  and higher,’ Our relations are ‘relations of candour,  which sometimes ‘rilses’ the temperature a little bit,  but also of mutual respect, Vib ee
4,5 i je de to ranks re La OTe       arret  who have made such references, ‘tor that would take  too long. Before going further, Mr, President, I should   PLENARY MEETINGS  like to call your attention to the very sad news tlat,  "during the year, Sir Alfred Zimmern, who was ‘the’  first Secretary-Gengral of the Preparatory. Commis-  sion of this Organiration, has passed away; He was  a good friend of mine, he was a good friend to Unesco,  although he served it for a relatively short perlod,:
4,8 As to the reports, ! will say very. little, I-note  that you have in general approved the way we report,  to you on out activities. 'We have given à great deal  "of attention to this matter;.. with the help of the Board,  the reports are, more systematically organized and:  presented, . They are efforts at honesty and éaridour.  without going too far in the revelation of diplomatic  secrets, We have a ‘great deal of work with Member.  Governments that, is difficult sometimes, particularly  in getting actién out of governménts, but we do not-  say much about that phase in our reports; The Execu-  tive Board has taken à very: genuine interest.in the  reporting: system,- and I wish to express my gratitude  for the very valuable aid it has given in this regard,  We are still open t to suggestions, ‘and suggestions are  made every timeiwe discuss these reports with the  Board, We hope that there will be additional ones and  "that we can make the re orts still more useful, Cer-  tain ideas on that’ subject, “which have come out of the  Reports Committed will receive your conslderation  at a later stage. in this Conference, 5:-. -<:
4,7  l'have made reference earlier, ‘in the debate on  the budget ceiling, to the effort that I have made to  introduce more democracy in the operations of the  Organization, Democracy in ‘dealing with Member :  States, enlisting their co-operation to develop the pro-  gramme and to decide on the budget level, the, multiple  consultation that is: ‘carried on, is, I think, .a very :  good thing. : We have ‘tried to be democratic in dealing  with the Executive. Board; the ‘Executive Board dis-  cusses our ideas for the programme and budget on at  least two occasions during each biennium.: We try to  obtain guldance at an early, general stage, and pre-  cise suggestions’ from the Beard at a later stage of  ‘getting down to details,’ when we have’ the first draft  of the proposed ‘programme and budget; :1 go very -  faria accepting even thé suggéstions of members of  the Board, let alone the formal recommendations of  the Board in: its work of révising- the proposed pro-. -  gramme and, budget, - I think that is a good thing,‘ énd  I think that is oné reason why you have found the pro-  gramme ‘and budget. corresponding,: as closely as you  haÿye; with your own {deas; - Sincs the | Roard reflects
24 governments ;; 4 le a good sample or ‘the thinking of  al of the governments of the Organization; is:  Wé have also introduced good deal ‘of the ele-  mont of ‘demiocraoy within the Secretariat, *1have  tried to enlist the. thinking, thé imagination, the crea-  Ave talents of our programme specialists,’ as well as  of our Department Heads, in the work of, making : Bou  , decisions of importance i in she’ work of our. Organization,  "4,9 As one step in t ‘effort to make the pro: ..  gramme ‘correspond to the wishes of Member States, :  I have personally visited, : since August: 11983, all of -  the Member States of the Organization including all  the new ones .- not the most recent; but-some that  have become Members in the last few years: + with the  exception of Albania, - - Byelorussia, Costa Rica, Ghana,  Malaya, Monaco, Nepal, Paraguay and the Ukraine.  I have also failed to visit the Associate Members.  regret that; but the pressure of work at set
235     + XVI  has been such,. that to have been absent any more than  I have been; -would not, 1. ihink, ‘have been fn the best  interests of the Organization, EERIE ECPI
4,10 . In the last few years, aud in the fast wo. A  years specifically, we have done what we could, to ald  in the devélopment of National Commissions, which  we in the Secretariat regard ag one of the fundamental  bases of the structure of Unesco. ; We have also e nr  couraged and atded, . to ‘the best of our ability, the  reglonal conferences.of thé National Commissions,  We regard this now as a prominent feature of our  work and hope that you “will see fi to continue 1 Her
4,11 _ , We have tried to .co-operate in a spirit of  comradeship and common endeavour, with international  organizations, - I take pride in what we haye accom-  plished in this sphere; and I am greatly. pleased with  the reactions which we have received from these.  organizations in response |g our policy of co-operation,
4, 12 »: In the United Nations family:we haye been one  of the leading supporters: of çco- operation and con-  certed action, and this is acknowledged openly by the  Secrelary-General of the United Nations; This flows  in part from the fact that ve have a special. rôle to  play. in educational and in informational activities, It  also flows, of course, from the fact that this Çon- .  ference has had a long and consistent record of re-,  questing the Dicector-General to co-operate well with  the Members of the Untied Nations family.; We have  introduced a plan of both informal and formal consul-  tations with the Agenciea of the United Nations family  in the matter. of developing our, programme, We pre  regularly represented in many United Nations meet-  ings::-We have helped not only in programme matters  but in administrative matters: -we have. worked closely  with the General Assembly, and with the Administra-  tive Committee of Co* ordination, In the current year,  the ACC, as we call it, has taken a great interest in  its own reform and improvement, : ; At the request of  the Economie and Social Council formulated ina;  resolution, the ACC. was set up some Years ago as an  agency of co- ordination, - It has not Worked to our  entire. satisfaction in that body; and the Secretary-:  iGeneral at my suggestion invited Mr. ‘Mahéu to make  a study of the ACC; This he bas done; ‘I lent-Mr,  Maheu to the Secretary-General for some time this;  year, and at a recent. meeting the ACC discussed this  study, _It did not have time to complete its delibera-  tions où if,- but it will continue them at its session  next May, ; The Secretary-General, has said that he is  persuaded that this study will greatly id the members  of ACC in coming to decisions. regarding the matter  of its own structures: .: 3; ts Lat
4,13 - -In the field of concerted action we have played  a very important. «rôle. -Heré again Mr: Maheu,: with  my authorization, made a. study and, put forward pro-  posals which were later accepted by the AÇO;, were  later still accepted by the Executive Board of Unesco,  which co-operated with real zeal in this work; .and;  were also accepted by the Economic and Social Co  Council, SRI
4,14 : We: have co-operated Closely with UNRWA in  regard to the education of the Arab children refugees  from Palestine; ;we have co-operated closely with.  the United Nations Korean Relief Agency; we have .  worked very hard for the Trusteeship Council in re-  gard to the educational and cultural aspects of their,  reports to the United Nations on trusteeship territories;   : XVI PLENARY  © we have also co-operated in thé matter of non-self=  governing territories,” We have co-operated closély  with UNICEF, and some of the products of that con-  sultation and collaboration are before the Conference  for its decision, - -:*- Lr
4,15: -In the field of atonto energy, there was a.  feeling in the Organization some time ago that per-  haps Uriesco ought to play a dominant rôlé in the  development of atémic energy for peaceful purposes,
1 vesisted that téndericy, ‘thinking that it was pri-  marily à United Nations enterprise and! while we  would help in thé éélentific résearch and éértain  other aspects; we should look to the United Nations  for leadership in this matter, The Executive Board  supported me in this position and, 48 you know, the  International Atomic Energy Agency has heen  created] as you also know we have made an agree  ment with them With which they are pleased and -  which our Executive'Board has accepted; I have no  fear that our rôlé will not be recognized in the future  development. of this ‘subject: *
4,18 In the matter of the appraisal of programmes,  on which’ you haye à document before you to which :  some of the delegates have réferred, -Unesco again  took an important role; : : At ône time this matter was  in some doubt, ‘in the Economic and Social Council  of July 19857; 1 took a ‘strong position in favour of the  appraisal and eventually it was adopted by the  Economie and Social Colnell; |
4.17 We have also been the first Agency to go as  far as we have gone in implementing the Economic  and Social Council's resolutiôh, The Economic and  Social Council took note of this fact at‘its meeting  ‘last summer and was very ‘grateful to Unesco for,  as it weré, opening the path, breaking new ground -  in regard to this matter,’ Here again thé participa-  tion of thé Executive Boaid was very important, and  it has supported me at every stage in this work;
4.18 ‘Thé'Econoimic and Social Council has’ ‘passed  a resolution on international exchariges and co--  operation whereby it tnvitéd Unésco to make an i -  important stidy, - We tradkly encouraged the passage  of that reséhition at the Economie and Social Council,  and 1'beliéve the Cultural’ Activitiés Working Party  has endorsed our going ahead in this matter, as did  our Executive Board; :In the matter of éoricerted-  action in the field of ‘community development, white  we did hot take the leaderähip - = the United Nations  did that-L"wé have played cur rôle and have c6= ="  operated; 7 In regard tothe Indiari-Andedn project,  in which ILO had the léadérship; we have also parti-  cipated and put some of our resources at the disposi-  tion of thé project, = : Andther {dea that’ developed in  the United Nations circles,’ was the idea of doing  something important and realistic concerning dis--  crimindt{on in the field of education; “The United :  Nations discudsed this for two or three yedärs-with  Unesco "playing : a‘minor role, ‘And now the stagé has  come'for Uneaed to take on the fiajor rôlet-oür -  Board supported that and we have brought proposals  before you.!'In régard to the development of the: :  - Special Fund,’ we have also co-operated in a friendly  spirit with the United Nations; we took orie initiative,  early in the" ‘game, of arranging for thé Specialized  Agenciéès'in Europe to have a meeting in Rome with  the Executive Chairman of thé Technical Assistance  : Board to prepare à Specialized Agenéy position on  "MEETINGS
236  the matter of the Special Fund, > we found Gursélyes :  in agreement with the Secretary-Général'ôn all riajér  points and we have accepted, with the approval of the  Board," the position that has finally beqn taken in the  United Nations itself, “In dévelopitg the’ important  "country programming system" ih thé Technical  Assiétancé programme, we were active at one orittéal  point, - in favour of the country proposal, In the ACC-  there was general agreement to" oppose’ this; I inter-  vened at a critical homent yyith a-very Texas typeof:  speech, such as some of yol have heard me make on  other occasions, and the ACC finally agreed to remain  neutral on the bubject, - It isa good thing it did, be-  cause the Economic and Social Council ‘adopted the --  proposal by a unarimous’ voté; and it would haye been  a pity had its own agency of co“ “ordination remained  entirely negative on the subjects. :. — ! -!
4,19 -We have also taken leadership* among the -  Agencles in the matter of transferring Headquarters:  costs of thé Technical Assisianéé programme Into the  normal budgets of the Organizatiôn, spread out « over  a perlod of years,. and provided the’ Economic and «  ‘Social Council finally makes a‘décision to that éftect;  Here again, -the Executive Board has supported this  idea; without its support I would not have taken the  position I took, We. work agréat deal with our sister  Agencies in helping them {nthe réalization of their  programmes by accepting invitations to consult with  them about how We can co>opérate, . Wé also have  good rèlatioris with thé Organization of American  States,: as Dr. Nanrietti has méntioned 61 behalf of  that Oiganization;- we have developed very warm and  cordial relations with the Council ‘of Europe in regard  to its cultural prégramme; ‘we have good relations  with the ‘Arab’ Leagie, as the representative of the  Arab League said recently, in'fields where we have -  common interests, :-We also have good relations with  the Ibero-American Oftice of Education, as indicated  to you'by Dr: Lacalle, and we have much co-operation  of course with ur famous sister: Agency; the Interna-  tional Bureau of Education, Our relations’ ‘with the _  non:governmental organizations ate: improving, We >  have very cordial relations with many of those; within  the framework of Conference decisions. : We give sub-  ventfons to à great’many of thèm with great pléasure)  and I hope you will agree to'incréase, ‘sème of those.’  in the future. We have encouraged thé non“ : gdvérniéntal  organizations to meet as a’group atid to advise ‘on the’  programme, and things ave going well In this” respect,
4,20 AS regards administrativé costs,: 1 gave. some  statistics last Wednesday on the reduction of per-  sonnel of the Organization in the past-siX years,  I* :  would liké to mention that in; réspect ofa ministrative  costs in'the Technical Assistance | Programme," ‘we have  the lowest percentage of all the Agencles participating  in that programme, although à nuihber of Ageéricies "-  havé larger.) programmes than we Have anid herice one  might think that the adñilñlstrative‘ ¢osts would be -  lower in proportion, “If you compare | the costs of our.  lañguäge sérvices; they are also the’ lowest in the  whole. United Nations family, and I speak here of ‘  lowest cost per nit of work, ‘The Management Survey  Committee went into this question; it did not find:  whether oui administrative:costs were too high, but  it recommended that this matter bé given further study.
4,21 We have done a good deal in the past few years  to improve the administration of the'Secrelariat and  Fi   PLENARY KEETINGS  ‘I think, with h Hé management unit; ‘more work! -  will be dccomplishéd in‘this told! We havé tried to  be môdérate in Îne'Upgrading of staff dnd fiavé tried,  where possible, to 'offse} upgradings by abolishing ~  ‘posts at high'gradgs'and settirigup others at lower -  grades, The statistics I gave you the other day '  clearly demonstrate’ that, ‘ Mr,: President; I think I  must call the atletition of the Conférence to the fact  that, in'my opinion, ou staff 1x not adequâté tô dé  somè parts of our wôrk.! We have not enough staff, -  for instance,’ té glve adequaté aid tô the experts we  send out under our various programmes with the back-  stoppirig work, the cleaving housé services, and the  giving of advice, which would be ‘desirable; Nor is  our staff adequate {o'réspdnd to the néeds of dur  Member Statés in’regard to the national planning of  their educational development," I think also that we -  are too weak in staff tri the East-West Major Project  and, perhaps, in certain other parts of the House,"  Some delegatés have the impression that adminiatra-  tivé costs are undesirable even in programme depart-  ments, They mention staff costs, ‘and Iriclude the :  prograriime spécialists'of the Organization. Most of  the programme activities of the Organization are -  activities which require the work of staff, and pri-  marily that, I think this matter needs to be given  further consideration and thé conéept of administrative  costs needs to be clarified, The organization of the  Secretariat se¢ins to me, while it has changed some-  what recently, to be rather good at the présent time.  I have no important charges to recominend, except  the implementation of éertdin recommendations in  regard to administrative ‘management, I think the  top structure of the Organization works well in terms  of my own working ‘methods, but it is desirable to  malntain a certain flexibility with regard to thé assign-  ments given to the persons in the few top posts in the  Organization,
4,22 ; "1 have inéntionéd MR, Mahieu in connexion -  with the co-operation with the Upitad Nations and the  Specialized Agencies, ‘where he has’ done a brillant  piece of work,” Now I would like to mextion that Mr,  Thomas and Mr. Adiséshiah, with their differing  personalities,’ {alents and temperaments, have both  given me very great aid and support in my work, 1  wish to thank also the Direciors of Départments, who  in general, have done an excellent job,
4.23”. We are trylng to'tmprové the quality of the -  éxperts that we send out in our various programmes,  particularly in fégdrd to the qualiitiés of respect for  and adaptability té different cultures, 1 think we are  - making progress in this matter, the Proportion of  tried veterans who know how tô operate in this kind  of setting is ihoreasing, ‘and We are paying more  attention fo réctutiment: y     ti’ On the othér hand it is’ aiffi-  cult to carry out the recrültmiént because we have not  enough moriey to send peoplé to intervieW ‘préspettive  experts, and we hive not enough money to invite them,  in all cages, to come and see 'us at Headquarters,
4,24 1 think the whole Secretariat is growing in its  quality and in Îts productivity,’ We have been  applauded for our hard work, L'récognize that this is  important, but even more important is the spirit in  which we work, I feel confidént that I am corréct in  asserting that this Secretariat of curs’ is dévated to  - the ‘spiritual ideals of Unesco; it includes more than
80 nationalities, it is à little microcosm of cultures,
237  Xvi  religions; .ways of life » we work harmoniously snd  smoothly together, To us who.work here our: dif-.  ferences seem almost inconsequential; except for -  purely personal compétences and personal qualities.  In this connexion, -1 think I can claim that we have  won the respect of the leaders of the world's great  living religions, In short, the Seoretariat is one of  Unesco's gréatest achievements, and the present  cost is not too much to pay, : Leo
4,25 There has been a good deal of talk in this .  Conference, as in all previous Conferences, regard-  ing the geographica) distribution of the staff, Now,  I am not at all content with our achievement in that  respect, but I should like in a few words to try ke  set the matter in a little clearer perspective, -We  are making progress, but progress in this matter  has to be slow because we are not creating many.  additional posts; - they do iricrease from time to time,  but the rate is lower than it was six years ago. We  aré trying to give people permanent contracts where  they desérye them, so the vacanéles are féw and far  between, The npportunities to adjust the geographical  picture must therefore be taken in a long-term frame-  work, If you take the target figures published in one  of the documents before the Conference, on geographical  distribution of the staff, and'conipare them with the  actual positions filled at the present time, you will  find that Latin America as a whole, ‘has reached 88%  of its target; ‘ you will find that the Arab States;  although we have some very néw ones, As à group’  are right on the target. There needs to be some .  internal redistribution there to satisfy some of the  States not now represented, «The States of Eastern  Europe ate thé worst represented within the Organiza-  tion; but a good many of them afe very. recent Mem-  bers; the percentage is only 37%. - The‘group most  over-represented is Western Europe, and here I  includé Turkey; 223% of the quota. But if you add the  United States of America, .Canada, New Zealand, and  Australia to the Western European group, the total  percentage drops to 141%. -. Finally Asis, excluding  the Arab States, has 67% of thé ‘quota, -
4,26 Itaké a certain pridé In the’faët that the  Secretariat has helped to bring new Member States  Into thé Organization, -and I also take pride in our  relations with the Associate: Member: States; some of  whom have been with us for some time, We hope to  develop very close relatiônships with the newést-  Associate Mémbér States,‘ whose présence: welcome.  We havé had godd Felations alfeady with most ‘of them,  and wé shall‘iïmprove thit relationship from now on. -
4,27 1 have ‘always béeén strongly of the opinion‘.  that in the matter 'of the recognition of governiments,  the poliéy of Unesco should be to follow the lead of:  the United Nations; which is the supreme political  forum fn the world, ‘and which providés us with leader-  ship ‘in matters of this kind, The délegate of Switzer -  land presented an idea, however, which I think is  "worthy of careful study, perhaps even In an'éxpanded  form,” You may remember that he suggested the  other day, ‘in à discussion concerning China, that.  experts front éontinentäl China might be invited to -  attend some of our meetings,’ on a basis of equality  with people from ‘other countries: It seems to me"  that it would be worth while to study this possibility,  without any disregard of the main political decision  to which I have already referred, and to see whether   xvi PLENARY  we ‘could datablish contacts with such peoples as those  of continental China and othér.areas where the United  Natlbrig doés not recognize the govérnment, in the -  framewbrk of ‘out programme activities. It seems  to me that Unésco should hot allow. whole peoples or  large numbers of pzople to be treated as untouchables,  in our work for cultural understanding and in other  phases of the work of the Organization; Perhaps this  matter could be discussed further in thy Programme  Commission, = * - ERNE. HRS .
4,28 Orie delegate said that Unesco is Met realizing  its {deals, -that,” on the contrary, it is plâying around  with shall activities of one kind and another, that it  ought to rise above such small tasks and t'y to çon-  celve great programmes for eliminating hate, fear  and war froth the minds of men, Iam the fire} to.  acknowledge that Unesco has not as much pi gsiige in  the world as I would wish; I am the first to‘tecog-  nize that some of the ‘great problems of the world  are not being atticked directly and frontally by our  Organization,“ But we must not be. lured into jiague:  dreams and projects aimed at direct challengés to  the conscience of mankind, - We must rather, A seems  to me, undertake long-term, . patient and cautioys.  ‘ work to influence the young, -to mould the young, to  shape them in our idcals; :We cannot do a great deal  with the present generation; we must concentrate  our efforts, and I think our programme reflects such  a determination, on the. proper education of the young.  Now that fs not only the main purpose of our pro--  gramme in education, .it is one of the main purposes  of our programme in science, and to a considerable  degree, - in cultural activities; our work in libraries  and museums, for instance owes'a great deal of its  interest to the fact that it helps to develop the com-  prehension by the young people of the world in which  they live. / + + ... LT LE I EE SO
4,29 . We have put forward one great project, the  . East-West Major Project, which while it itg practical,  is also à very great and challenging ideal. In 1953,  at the sessjon of the Board which took place the. week  after I took office, Mr, Veronese made h suggestion  that the time had come for the Executive Board and  the Direétor-Général to consider where we stood in  Unesco and what we should do, : This was readily  accepted by the. Board and by myseif, and that autumn  the Board held a private meeting, without records  and without much translation,’ outside Paris, and.  deliberated on the question, ;.One of the results of .  that discussion was the conviction that National Com-  missions should be strengthened, and our programme  since has been based on that conyigtion; Another  was that the programme ought to be reformed, The  Board took up an {dea which the United States delega-  tion had advanced with much force and vigour ai the  Florénce Conférence in 1950, that we ought to have  what they called "sky-scraper'l projects. : What came  out of the Board discussions and the work of the -  Secretariat-- and here again Mr, :Maheu took à lead-  ing rôle in preparing a paper proposing the Major  Projects - was the concopt of Major Projects, Under  Mr. Veronese's chairmanship,:a working party of  the Board developed plans for the reform of our pro-  gramme, - The two principal elements of that reform  were the Major Projects, plus an emphasis on doing  more work calculated to meet the needs of the less-  developed Member States, - From this came the
238     MEETINGS  areas are listed in your documen 9 Ald)  gramme; :which is now called the Participation pro-  gramme, answers the other formulated need, ; (A  bX)  that it 1s as Important as some délegéles think, You ects  Sak  means, . a. Cor .
4,32 I have just a few more remarks, There is a  project before the Conference céncerning a special  fund for education, ‘science and cülfüre, Mr. de  Berredo Carneiro rightly pointed out in'the Pro:  gramme Commission that the Secretariat has taken -  something of a negative view of this proposal, We  have this view because we gathered that the majority  of Member States did not want the project, but never-  theless we havé loyally carried ouf all the instructions  we received from the General Conference in this  regard. : My own reservation throughout was that it  did not fit in with the United Nations ‘philosophy about  special funds, ; ES 4 — us TV us, :
4,33 1 (think thai the situaiion h s now cha ged; thé  United Nations has goñe ahead With a Special Fund, -  the Economic and Social Couñcil passed à resoliiton  on the subject in July of 1957, the General Assembly  has passed two resolutions on t ¢ subject and the  United Nations’ Special Fund ow exists, Siw ot  begin on 1 January. with approximately 25 million’  dollars, Here the funds are given yoluntarily by Mem-  ber States, they do not have to pay, they may give ….  what they wish; I think the lime has come td do some-  thing of the same sort in Unesco. The World Health  Organization has set up a'mialaria fund with five  million dollars, and some other funds. UNICEF {sa  fund working along these lines. But the United Nations         PLENARY:
4  Special Fund cannot take gate of sone ‘of the: projects  that we are interested ing” as a'imatier of fact, it will  be for a rathér linilted range of projectsic. «wf =u;
4,34 - I speak at this tithe because I'gathor. the Gone  ference is’ close’to a’ deadlock on this: issué,- and the  deadlock 1s particularly serious, from my pointof -!  view, because it is largely in terms of the under- "  privileged against the privileged, When that situation  develops, 1 (hink thé Director-Géneral has an obligd-  tion which he cannot escäpe; to try bo find some kind  of compromise; ‘The compromise I would suggest is.  that the Unesco fund provided for in the proposal be-  fore the Conference, which I presented to you in pur-  suance of the instructions of the last sessjon,. should  be devoted to the Major Projects of Unesco. ' Perhaps  the amount of money stipulated might be reduced; in  any event, the money should gd ‘solely to our three  Major Projects, If and when we adopt other Major  Projects - not merely the preparatory work I have  proposed for the next two years, but whén we actually  start a new Major Project - it should also become  eligible to receive help from this fund,
4,35 One of the tragedies of the Organization since  I came here, has been the deep controversy that has  existed within the Organization concerning the so-  called American cases, where I dismissed some  employees and refused to renew the contracts of  certain others who had refused to co-operate in pro-  cedures established by the Organization for hearing  charges that staff members had violated the Staff  Regulations of Unesco, As you know, the International  Labour Organisation Tiiblnal found me guiltÿ of abuse  of power and we had to pay damages to these people.  The Executive Board appealed to the International  Court of Justicé as to whether thé Tribunal had juris-  diction; the Court ruléd that thé Tribunal did Lave  jurisdiction, but it refused to pronounce on the merits  of the cases, and it also refused to accept the doc-  trine of abuse of power, "The Secretariat has been  brought into the Tribunal again, recently on cases of  non- -renewal of contracts of some employees, and the  Tribunal has clearly stated that it is not entitled to ‘  make judgements concerning ‘the decisions of the  Director-General in evaluating the performance of  staff members. In other words, it this philosophy,  which the Tribunal has now stéted clearly in two recent  cases, had been the philosophy of the Tribunal at the  time it heard the ‘other casés, the decision would not  have gone against t ‘the Organization. My conscience  is clear on this ‘matter, ‘and 1 merely wanted to report  this to yc because it is not ‘contained in any of the  documents tha} have been’ ‘put ‘Betore you,
4,36 You have heard | Some lofty words at this  session of ths General Conference, and 1 would like to  call attention particularly to the speech of Sir  Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, who’ reminds me of one of  the great prophets of the Old’ Testament, and also to  the closing paragraphs of the great speech of ‘Mr,  Berthoin, where he referred to Unesco as the guar-  dian of the soul of mankind, I commend those para-  - graphs to you for rereading, ’
4,37 Now, Mr, President, if I have given the dele-  gates an impression that I am pleased with the work  of Unesco at the present stage, I must apologize to  you for my lack of modesty; but let me say that if  you have received that impression you have the right  impression of my point of view.  MEETINGS
239  Xvi  Thé PRESIDENT (Tranalation from the Spanish);  "1 thank the Director-General ‘on behalf ‘of the ‘  .Genaral Conferénce,: for his éloquerit and wells: . °  dncumented apegch; with {ts Wealth of’ suggestions -  and recommendations, which supplethents and rounds  off his Report and the progranime before this Con- -  fereñte: ‘The debate on the Réport and on'the Pro-  gramme and Budget for 1959-1960 being now concluded,  the delegate of Guatemala has asked fo speak in order  to express his gratitude to the glorious land of France,  I call upon the delegate’ of Guatemala, ‘  SI i
6.1 Mr, ROSAL- (Guatemala) (Translation from  the French): ‘0 25 fes. tee  ‘Mr :'President;’ fellow delegates, 1 would Ike  first of all to apologize to the distinguished Lätin  American ¢olléagues who have precéded me on this  platform, for the fact that I am speaking in French,  and to explain, on behalf of the delegation of Guate-  mala, of which I am the head, that I do s0 as a  tribute to France - to that beloved, fair and glorious  land of France, thanks to whose generous hospitality  we are holding the tenth session of the General Con-  ference of Unesco in this magnificent and somewhat  bewildering building which has just been inaugurated.
6,2 It is a particular joy for nie to revisit this  great and noble country, where I spent what were  undoubtedly the happiest years of my life - part of  my childhood and part of my early youth, So I feel  very honoured at speaking on behalf of my country in  support of Unesco's ideals and of the lofty endeavours  it is making In the fields of education, scierice and  culture which form the real basis of prosperity and  of the peace which should reign among the nations of  the world,
6.3 As the various peoples come to know one  another better, they will intensify their efforts to  eradicate ignorance, and the prospect of a new world  war will steadily recede, Speaking on behalf of  Guatemala, ‘! would like first of all to congratulate  the Director-General, Dr, Luther Evans, his dis-  tinguished colleagues’ ‘in the Secretariat and the mem-  bers of the Executive Board, on their tenacious and  untiring efforts to ensure Unesco's success in its  noble task,
6.4 1shall be very brief; I do not want to weary  you with a long statement, tor our proceedings are  already drawing tô à close; I would merely like to  tell you that, in the spheré of technical assistance,  Guatemala has received help from Uneséo in respect  of adult education, educational and vocational guidance,  coinmercial tralhing and audié-visual aids, We  should naturally like, however, to receive a some-  what greater measure of assistanée in those same  fields, especially in our current fellowship pro-  grammes and in the provision of the equipment we  need, -
6.5 I would like to emphasize the great need, in  Guatemala as in other Latin American countries, to  trairi natiorial experts, who would be thoroughly  conv »rsant with the problems, resources and aspira-  tions of the various communitiès within their respec-  tive countries and able to render services better  adapted to local conditions, and more durable, than  foreign experts could provide.
6.6 In the programme for the extension of primary  education in Latin America, we have received all the  DE   XVI PLENARY  necessary, assistance from Unesco; ‘ but we should,  undoubtedly be glad to receive.technical assistance in  this field as well, and to secure the funds which re-  main indigpensable to the Prosecution of this  tremendous task, .
6.7 We would therefore ran th International Bank  for Recorstruction any} Developwent, and the other  international banking institutions, . to regard the  capital invested in our countries for the purpose of  promoting the development of popular education as  productive investment - for the natural corollary to  a higher cultural level is a higher purchasing power,
6,8 It is unfortunately impossible for us to bring  our teacher training schools into this programme, as  we have commitments with the United States Interna-  tional Co-cperation Adminigtration,
6.9 In pursuance of the recommendation adopted at  MEETINGS
240  the ninth session of the General Conference, ‘at New  * Delhi, the Govertitment of Guatemala has succeeded  in establishing’ perfect’ coigrdination between the  activities of Unesco, of. ‘the. Inter-American Co-  operative Service (LA, CS) ‘and of the Ibero-American _  Bureau of Education,” defining the spheres of activity  of each, and obtaining their assistance without  duplication or interference,
6.10 This, ‘in brief, was what I wanted to tell you,  Before concluding, I would like once again to con-  gratulate Dr. Luther Evans upon the admirable work  he has accomplished at Unesco, and to express the  hope that the Organization will continue its progress  towards universal brotherhood and the prosperity of  - mankind,  The meeting rose at 11,45 a.m.