26 November 1960, at 10,45 a.m,  President : Mr, Akale-Work ABTE-WOLD (Ethiopia)  CONTENTS  General discussion of the Reports of the Director-General  {conclusion) ,  Reply by the Director-General  GENERAL DISCUSSION OF THE REPORTS OF THE  DIRECTOR-GENERAL (conclusion)
1.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Ladies and gentlement, the meeting is open, !  should like to draw your attention to the fact that more  than six speakers have already handed in their names  and that after the closure of the general discussion  the Director-General will reply to the approximately
90 speakers who have taken part in this discussion.
1 should therefore like to ask speakers to be as brief  as possible, so that we can avoid holding a meeting  this afternoon.
1,2 Before continuing with the general discussion,
1 call upon H,E. Mr, Matsul, Chairman of the Cre-  dentials Committee.
2,1 Mr. MATSUI (Japan), Chairman of the Cre-  dentials Committee (Translation from the French) :  Mr. President, in accordance with the decision  taken earlier, I have pleasure in informing you that  the Republic of Chad yesterday submitted, in the  form of a telegram, the instruments accrediting an  observer to the General Conference, These cre-  dentials can be accepted provisionally and Chad  allowed to take part in the General Conference as  a non-member State.
3. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I now call upon H, E. Mr. Sinoimeri, Head of the  delegation of Albania.
4,1 Mr. SINOIMERI (Albania) (Translation from  the French) : -  Mr, President, fellow delegates, on behalf of the  delegation of the People's Republic of Albania, I  should like to express by best wishes for the success  of this eleventh session of the General Conference  and also to welcome the many new members of our  Organization,
4.2 Our delegation Is imbued with the will to  work for international understanding and co-opera-  tion and to contribute to the maintenance and con-  solidation of peace and peaceful existence among  all nations.
4.3 The eleventh session of our Organization's
326 ..  General Conference is taking place at a time when,  owing to the provocation and the aggressive policy of  the imperialists, more particularly the United States  of America,international tension has increased ap-  preciably, As you know, as a result of the many  peaceful efforts and initiatives of the Soviet Union  and the other socialist’ countries, there has been a  certain relieving of the tension in international rela-  tions, The famous proposals of the Soviet Union to  the fourteenth session of the General Assembly of the  United Nations were of considerable importance in  this respect. This noble alm was also served by the  recent proposals submitted by the Soviet Union and  strongly supported by our delegation at the fifteenth  session of the United Nations General Assembly and  by the recent proposal of the President of the Council  of State of the People's Republic ôf China for the  signature of a reciprocal friendship and non-aggres-  sion pact among the countries of Asia and particularly  bordering on the Pacific including the United States of  America. Unfortunately, the imperialist powers in  general and the United States of America in particular  are continuing their aggressive policy feverishly and  dellberately, even going so far as to undermine the  Summit Conference beforehand, . ’
4.4 At a time when the Soclalist countries are  making constructive proposals for disarmament, with  a view to safeguarding and strengthening world peace,  the capitalist countries, led by the United States of  America, are intensifying the arms race, establish-  ing new military bases, making desperate éfforts to  maintain the loathsome colonial system, sowing  hatred among the nations, making weapons of mass  extermination available to thé revenge-seekers of  Germany and carrying out a permarent policy of  provocation, espionage and aggression. Can we  ignore in silence the danger which is threatening  world peace and security? It is difficult to acquire  knowledge of important scientific and ‘cultural values  and disseminate and exchange them when they are  not yet safe from the threat of a devastating war and  when, in several countries, blood is flowing and  millions of innocent men are groaning under the  heavy yoke of colonialism.
4.5. Our delegation considers it of primary import-  ance to condemn and publicly unmask the warmongers   PLENARY MEETINGS  who are playing with the interests of peoples and  threatening the great century-old values of universal  culture. ;
4.6 In its long history, the Albanian people have  had to shed too much of their blood in their struggles  against foreign domination and imperialist aggression,  They have suffered terribly from war and its after-  math, In the last war alone, about 8% of the popula-  tion of our country died in battle, were wounded or  imprisoned; 35% of our towna and villages were  destroyed and our whole economy was wiped out,  The Albanian people have paid too high a price for  their freedom and made tremendous sacrifices for  the common cause of all peoples fighting against  fascist aggression, They know on’: too well the  meaning of war and that is why they are making  every effort to safeguard and preserve peace,
4,7 The Albanian people detest war and hate im-  perialism, which is the source of all evils and, on  behalf of their sons who fell on the field of honour,  they are asking Unesco to become an effective weapon  for the maintenance of international peace. They con-  sider that peace will be preserved if the nations take  up the cause with determination and defend it to the  last, Our delegation holds it the moat sacred duty of  our Organization to unite the efforts of the peopler  in their common struggle against imperialist aggres-  sion, for the safeguarding of peace and for peaceful  coexistence. . ;
4.8 Albania, once one of the most backward coun-  tries of Europe, has been able, in a short space of  time, to dress its wounds and remove the traces of  the past, Thanks to its speedy development, it now  ranks among the more advanced countries. Our  present industrial production for a fortnight is as  much as it was for the whole of 1938, At the end of
1960, our total industrial production should be 113%  higher than in 1955, with an avérage annual rate of  increase of over 168%, It is obvious that these achieve-  ments in the sphere of economy and in other sectors  would not have been possible without the successful  introduction of radical changes in education, as well  as in science and culture. Without going into great  detail, I should like to quote a few facts. As you  know, in 1938, 83% of the population of Albania was  illiterate, At that time, only one out of every four-  teen children of school age could go to school. Today,  the position is entirely different and one out of every  five children is attending school, Senior personnel  in their hundreds are being educated every year,  both in our young university and abroad, and the  number of schoolchildren and students amounts to
300,000 for a total population of 1,600,000.
4.9 Great efforts are being made to improve our  educational system so that it may really meet the  needs of our time, In the second quarter of 1960,  thie problem was discussed at large public meetings,  and “aly afterwards was the appropriate legislation  on the reorganization of our schools put into effect,  The new legislation provides for still closer relation-  ship between school and everyday life, between  theory and practice. The steps taken are truly  revolutionary and will contribute to a radical improve-  ment in our system of popular education.
4.10 Future prospects are even more promising.  The Third Five-Year Plan, for 1961-1965, provides  for an increase of 33% in the number of schoolchildren  N 320  and students by 1965, bringing the total up to 400,000  as compared with 300,000 at present, The network of  seven-year schools will be expanded to such an extent  that, in 1966,these schools will absorb 80% of the chil-  dren whohave completed their primary schooling. The  number of secondary schools will alsobe increased to  accommodate 30,000 pupils as compared with 15,000at  the moment, while the number of students attending unl-  versities, excluding those following evening and corre-  spondence classes, will be raised from 4,30010 7,200,
4,11 Long before it joined Uneaco, Albania applied  the principles on which this Organization is based at  the international level, Although barely two years  have passed since the establishment of the National  Commission for Unesco of the People's Republic of  Albania, it has tried to carry out the essential tasks  included in the programme and to familiarize itself  with the main problems with which Unesco fs concerned,  Particular importance has been attached to the East-  West Major Project. Efforts have been made to  ensure the diffusion of the culture of Eastern and  Western nations through the translation of a large  number of their literary and scientific masterpieces,  beginning with the earliest authors and progressing  towards modern times.
4,12 Foreign groups of artists have been invited  to our country and our own artists have gone ebroad.  In 1959, to mention only Far Eastern groups, our  country was visited by a group of artists from the  Democratic Republic of Viet-Nam and by the Arpana  group from the Republic of India, We have also held  several exhibitions on life in Eastern and Western  countries - 14 in 1958 and 24 in 1959.
4.13 We have carried out extensive exchanges of  information with other countries through our news-  papers, our radio, our television and every other  available means,
4.14 Many delegations have been exchanged between  our country and foreign countries. Festivals devoted  to the films and music of several foreign countries  have been held and numerous other activities have  been a powerful factor in strengthening co-operation  between ourselves and other countries, Finally, 9,000  foreigners, of whom 5,200 were tourists, visited  Albania in 1359, 65% nf these coming from Eastern  countries, « All this activity has taken place within  the context of the cultural relations that our country  has established and developed with foreign countries,  whether socialist or not, and also through collabora-  tion between various institutions in our country and  their counterparts abroad.
4.15 Albania has also entered into a cultural agree-  ment with Iraq and drawn up a programme of cultural  exchanges with France. It is continuing its efforts to  extend its relations with Italy and other countries.  This year, the Albanian Government signed the Con-  vention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the  Event of Armed Conflict, This fact offers positive  confirmation that our country has a National Com-  mission capable of participating effectively in the  implementation of the programme and of drawing in  national bodies which are representative of public  opinion,
4.16 Before concluding, I should like to emphasize  my delegation's satisfaction that the Proposed Pro-  gramme and Budget for 1961-1962 covers nearly  every aspect of the Organization's activities.   PLENARY  However, we should like to make two criticlems which  we consider vital, namely that the questions raised in  the Proposed Programme and Budget do not always fit  in with the major problems which are inherent in the  current international situation and with which our  Organization should deal, Our delegation therefore  pro, oses that the possibility be explored of pooling,  fn tie first place, all the resources and means at  Unesco's disposal so as to solve problems as vital  as that of peaceful coexistence, general and complete  disarmament, and the struggle for peace, and that  the Organization should concentrate all its efforts on  solving these problems. The second point on which  our delegation is not in agreement is that concerning  Unesco's financial policy. We fully support the pro-  posal of the Soviet delegation for a 15% cut in admin-  istrative costs.
4.17 Our delegation once again strongly protests  against the resolution of the Executive Board on the  question of the contribution of the Chiang Kai-shek  clique,
4.18 Our delegation again expresses its profound  indignation at the fact that the contribution of the  Chiang Kai-shek clique has been reduced, when this  clique ought in fact to be expelled from our Organiza-  tion and cede its place to the only true representative  of the Chinese people - the Government of the People's  Republic of China, It also protests against the refusal  to admit to their righiful place the Democratic People's  Republic of Korea, the Mongolian People's Republic,  the Democratic Republic of Viet-Nam and the German  Democratic Republic.
4.19 Finally, our delegation is in full agreement  with the other proposals of the delegation of ths Soviet  Union concerning the reorganization of the Executive  Board and the Directorate of Unesco.
4.20 The delegation of the People's Republic of  Albania hopes that the work of the eleventh session  of the General Conference of Unesco will help to  strengthen cultural relations between the several  nations, and will contribute to their material and  spiritual progress and to the maintenance of world  peace, It states from this platform that the Govern-  ment of the People's Republic of Albania, which has  ever adhered to a policy of peace, will, as always,  support every proposal and every endeavour to  strengthen mutual understanding and international  co-operation,
5. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Since H.E, Mrs. Barrios de Haas, Head of the  delegation of Guatemala, is absent, I call upon H, E,  Mr. Quintanilla, Head of the delegation of Nicaragua.
6.1 Mr. QUINTANILLA (Nicaragua) (Translation  from the Spanish) :  Mr. President, Mr. Director- General, fellow  delegates, for the second time - and on this occasion,  for the eleventh session of the General Conference -  the representatives of Member ‘States are meeting at  Unesto's headquarters under a Parisian sky, in this  incomparable, timeless and eternal city.
6.2 Once again, men of goodwill from every part  of the globe are meeting in this modern agora of  universal thought to meditate on the vital problems  of education, science and culture, Once again, the  spirit of this great international Organization is
321  MEETINGS XX  renewing its creative force, reaffirming its prin-  ciples and strengthening ite claim to permanence,
6.3 This Conference is distinguished by three  events which are landmaiks in the already extensive  and eventful history of Unesco: the loss of Pedro de  Alba and Gaston Berger, the admission of the inde-  pendent African Member States and the substantial  increase in the Organization's budget,
6.4 The delegation of Nicaragua, which ! have the  honour to lead, pays tribute to the noble memory of  these two great modern humanists, two outstanding per-  sonalities, two distinguished friends of Unesco, whose  disappearance has plunged American and European  scholastic circles into mourning, Pedro de Alba and  Gaston Berger will always be shining examples of the  ideals we cherish,
6.5 Mr. President, the delegation of Nicaragua has  pleasure in welcoming the entry of the African Re-  publics into the great Unesco family, As the repre-  sentative of a country which in the past has had to  defend its political integrity and its national independ-  ence and which fs now struggling to retain its cultural  and spiritual values, I can but rejoice at the arrival  of the young African nations, which enter our Organi-  zation to confirm their vocation for freedom and to  proclame their right to education, science and culture,
6.6 The delegation of Nicaragua approves the pro-  posals of the United States of Brazil and the United  States of America to increase Unesco's budget, since  this will make it possible to consolidate its programmes  and ensure the necessary financial resources for a  rational policy of expansion,
6.7 Weare confident that the maximum amount of  funds available to the Organization will in future be  allocated on the basis of equitable geographical dis-  tribution, thus enabling increased, impetus to be  given to the Major Project on the Extension and  Improvement of Primary Education {n Latin America.
6.8 In this connexion, I should like to state that  Unesco has to its credit an achievement unprecedented  in the New World: it has succeeded in stimulating the  efforts of nations and the action of governments to  bring the benefits of civilization and culture to the  Latin American masses.
6.9 The Major Project is making an effective con-  tribution to our continent's struggle against under-  development, ignorance and poverty. Already a  significant change in publié administration is notice-  able and education has begun to occupy a suitable  position in development programmes,
6.10 On the occasion of the second session of the  Committee of Twenty-One in Bogota in September of  this year, Latin American economists and educators  at last broke through the viclous circle of priorities  and acknowledged that educational development should  go forward in conjunction with economic development.  This new attitude has been advocatéd i - Unesco for  many years and its acceptance by those who direct  our economies is no little victory for the Major  Project.
6,11 In Nicaragua, thé achievements are obvious,  The Government of Luis Somoza Débayle, treating  the projects of Unesco with due seriousnesa, has just  put into effect a clearly-detined and orderly policy by  launching a national plan of educational development  with the following basic aspects : the training of  educational leaders of all kinds ; the establishment   xx PLENARY  of new teacher-training institutes and an increase in  the enrolment capacity of the San Marcos and Jinotepe  Associated Normal Schools ; the graduation of un-  qualified In-service teachérs within a maximum period  of ten years ; the launching of an ambitious school-  building programme ; the granting of the necessary  minimum of furniture and teaching materials to the  schools; the reform of syllabuses and curricula to  fit in with the country's needs; and the overhauling  of the administrative and technical structure of  education,
6.12 This enterprising programme was welcomed  and praised at the meeting of experts on the Major  Project held In Quito last October, and has received  the valuable assistance of Unesco from the outset.
6.13 The Nicaraguan National Commission for  Unesco has for its part established a Special Com-  mittee for the Major Project, which includes active  representatives from all walks of public and private  life.
6.14 The work being done by the Unesco Regional  Office in the Western Hemisphere and by the Office  for the Co-ordination of the Major Project in Havana  is extremely praiseworthy, dynamic and well-  directed, Therefore, Mr, President, 1 should like  to pay tribute here to two good Latin Americans,  Guillermo Francovich and Oscar Vera, who are a  credit to Unesco, an honour to our Continent and  who share with us the responsibilities of this great  cultural crusade in America.
6.15 Mr. President, fellow delegates, the delega-  tion of Nicaragua has read the Report of the Director-  General on the Organization's Activities attentively  and has carefully studied the Proposed Programme  and Budget for 1961-1962,
6.16 From these we note that Unesco's aims are  being pursued to the full extent of its potentialities.  This justifies the faith of all the nations of the world  which are following the Organization's development,  requesting its aid to overcome traditional forms of  spiritual subjection, and crying out for the divine  sparks of Prometheus in order to forge their own  cultural destiny and to enrich the common cultural  heritage of mankind,
6.17 However, thought must be given to the dan-  gers of dispersion, Unesco must concentrate its  programmes into large units, in order, not to make  an impression - as someone sald - but to improve ’  and strengthen the foundations of a world which today,  more than ever before, is in a state of tension.
6.18 The Director-General should pursue, on a  permanent basis, the policy already adopted of ap-  praising Unésco's programmes, honestly, objectively  and with absolute confidencé. It is to be hoped that  this judicious and timely assessment ‘of methods and  results will lead to readjustments which can but be  beneficial to the structure and activities of the  Organization,
6.18 An analysis of the proposed programme  reveals three salient features : the continuation of  the Major Project on the Extension and Improvement  of Primary Education in Latin America, the intro-  duction of coherent, properly planned programmes on  the development of education in Asia, Africa and the  Arab States, and the development of international co-  operation in scientific research and in the social  sciences.  MEETINGS
6.20 We welcome all these features, and particu-  larly the programme for education in Africa, for this  rights a century-old injustice, We share the aspira-  tions of Asia and the Arab States, We consider  justified the emphasis laid on sclence, the humaniza-  tion of which is vital to Individual and collective  security, On the other hand, we must draw attention  tothe fact that the funds allocated tothe Latin American  Major Project are still toolimited. We should have  liked to see them substantially increased in order ta  intensify this experiment, which we consider to be of  immense importance and urgency,
6.21 The delegation of Nicaragua would like to  suggest to the Director-General the following ways  of extending activities under this project considerably:  He might enter into negotiations with the Government  of the United States of America with a view to secur-  ing the employment of a high percentage of the funds  allocated for the implémentation of the social develop-  ment programme, listed among the objectives of the  Bogota Charter, for the financing of national educa-  tional programmes in Latin Ameriéa, and more ‘  particularly the construction of school buildings ;  he might try to arrange with the Inter-American  Development Bank and othér international banking  institutions for the granting of low-interest loans to  the governments of Latin America, to be used for  specific projects in the field of general and technical  education and for technical studies preparing the  ground for overall educational plans. In this con-  nexion, our delegation shares the view of the Latin  American group that relations between Unesco and  the Inter-American Development Bank should be  made the responsibility of the Regional Office in  Havana, which it considers the most appropriate  organiam within the area of the Major Project,
6.22 Mr. President, fellow delegates, Nicaragua  has faith in Unesco as a non-political organization  dedicated to the noble aims proclaimed at its incep-  tion. Nicaragua belleves in the wisdom of the  Director-General, who has our friendship and .  admiration, Nicaragua believes in the Major Pro-  ject for Latin America, as it was conceived and as  it is shaping in practi¢e, Nicaragua has faith in  national resourcefulness, ‘combined with technical  assistance and International loans, to solve educa-  tional and cultural problems.
6.23 Never before has mankind had so universal,  so well-integrated and so promising an organization  as Unesco to reduce tension among individuals and  nations, to assert the basic values of the human  personality, ‘to construct the defences of peace in  the minds of men, The last world war left a breach  open to hatred and resentment, distrust and mis-  understanding, Inhuman concepts expressed in  ideologies justifying extermination and systematically  pandering to the basest human instincts, seemed to  be destroying the cultural and moral foundations of  our civilization.
8.24 Nevertheless, the terrible havoc of the war,  the anguish and sufferings of miiiféns of humanbeings,  the reduction to ashes of imposing monuments, of  libraries, cathedrals and scientific centres which  were the pride of our civilization, moved men to  reflection, led them to take stock and to formulate a  new kind of militant and loftier humanism, placing at  the service of mankind all the formulae needed  * 322   PLENARY  for progress and for the material and spiritual  development of the human race.
6.25 This type of humanism is embodied in Unesco,  To it falls the urgent task of channelling, guiding and  translating into action the éfforts required to extend  the benefits of culture, education and science to all  corners of the earth.
6.26 In acknowledgement of this sacred mission,  we must give it our whole-hearted support, Let us  nor forget, Mr, President, that there can be no real  progress as long as there are still human communi-  ties enduring hunger, illness and ignorance. As long  as there are peoples living on the fringe of culture  and history, side by side with rich, powerful and  prosperous nations which are accumulating all the  refinements of art and science, there can be neither  stability nor peace in the world,
6.27 Fellow delegates, progress is a co-operative  undertaking in which everyone should play his part,  Science and culture are the common heritage of all  mankind. For our generation, it is a challenge and  a point of honour to provide education for all, irres-  pective of race, religion, ideology or frontiers,  Therefore, we should like to urge all the peoples and  governments here represented to give thought to the  message contained in the lines of Ruben Dario, the  sublime Nicaraguan poet who is known all over the  world : "Let all these scattered particles fuse and  shine together to form a single beam of universal light"
6.28 And 1 shall end by endorsing the hope expressed  by Fontoura Xavier: "... May this great union never  end!",
7. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon Mr. Tchicaya, Head of the delegation  of the Congo (Brazzaville).
81 Mr. TCHICAYA (Congo: Brazzaville)  (Translation from the French) :  Had I the honour of addressing a traditional  gathering in the Congo, I should not, in view of my  youth, begin with the words: "Mr, President,fellow  delegates" ; no, kneeling down, and speaking respect-  fully but not subserviently, I should say : "'Grand-  father, mother and father delegates’. But, other  places, other custome! Therefore, Mr, President,  ladies and gentlemen, I, as the youngest of the mem-  bers of this assembly, am extremely moved at having  the honour to greet the delegates to this session of the  General Conference of Unesco on behalf of my coun-  try, the Congo.
8.2 This greeting ls sinceré, ‘ To be convinced of  that, you have only to think how eagerly wé hastened  to join this great Organization as scon ae we regained  our independence. You accepted us, I think, without  reserves, since you realize that our energy is a  potential asset to the whole world,
8,3 This energy has already enabled us to over-  come our bittérest enemy - colonfalism - on several  parts of the African continent,
8.4 Time passes. There will be generations in  Africa who will be glad - just as you are today - that  they were colonized, These generations in Africa  will have their Ponts du Gard and their Roman amphi-  theatres and they will be proud of them; but they will  also remember their’very heavy sacrifices which  decency forbids me to mention here.
3.5 Decency and also the fact that our rebirth requires  a healthy atmosphere. Decency, and another reason,  namely that we are impatient and suddenly determined  to be effective - effective for the benefit of the men  and women of our planet, which has now become so  small,
8.6 Mr, President, if our time were not rationed,
1 should have liked t6 remind you of the bygone  relationships of the Congo with Europe and the rest  of the world before our three centuries of slavery.  These relations wereall impregnated with courtesy  and understanding. We can now resume them and  we shall learn to understand one another better,
8.7 Reference has already been made from this  platform to our thirst for knowledge, that is, our  inclination towards love, understanding and, ulti-  mately, peace, We are too filled with love, our  conscience is too clear and our capacities too modest  for there to be the slightest chance of our throwing  our energies into the heated controversies that divide  the world, ’
8.8 It was in Africa that Gandhi, that noble spirit,  became aware of the sufferings inflicted upon his own  people. I hope that others like Gandhi, coming to  Africa, will realize the sufferings of their respective  peoples, and thereafter it may be that, stricken with  remorse and richer in humility, they will be filled  with that love which Gandhi described as the humblest  but also as the most powerful force imaginable,
8,9 To be sure, twenty centuries of Christianity  have not spared Europe from war!... Yet, during  those twenty centuries, the Latin saying : "He who  wants peace prepares for war' has not lost an iota  of its meaning. War? But let us not forget that  during these twenty centuries, while civilizations  suffocated and died, nothing has been able to prevent  the rise of that wonderful'sap that nourishes all our  hopes of peace, The obvious proof of this is that we  are here, within these four walls, which are not  those of a tower, and we are trying to speak simply  and directly the language of understanding and of  peace, While there may be régrettable - but not  insoluble - misunderstandings among us, God and  the South African writer, Alan Paton, alone know  that our civilization is not a Christian onel
8.10 Our worries are those of egoists, money-  grabbers, those who give nothing for nothing, who  dare not give for fear of being had, But I do not  want, by continuing thus, to auggest that there is no  loophole of èscape. I wish to revert to the saying :  "Si vis pacem, para bellum", and to believe that the  arms supplied for war may conquer war, that we  shall impose peace on ourselves - not peace as the  period between two wars, but a peace that will enable  Unesco to be a new Tower of Babel, to have its  foundations in the soul of every nation, all at last  enjoying equal status, ' ;
8.11 There will no longer be the god of battles of  a chosen people to blow down the new tower, And so  it will not collapse and we shall not be scattered and  find ourselves once more at the mercy of brutish  - internal struggles in " the fight for life",
8.12 But, if Unesco is to be the tower or ark of  this new alliance, should we not all adopt the precept  of François Rabelais : "Science without conscience  is but ruin of the soul"?
8.13 Is not the soul that which makes any spiritual   XX  lite possible? And is not a full spiritual life the major  prerequisite for a triumphant culture? A soul torn by  the uncertainty of an atomic tomorrow - or an atom-  ized one, unless a certain degree of conscience enters  the scientific brains of our world - cannot have a very  restful kind of peace,
8.14 Unesco must therefore get rid of this lack of  conscience that gives us and our cultures so little  chance of surviving If we stick to the motto: "Si vis  pacem, para bellum", We Congolese, we Africans,  are asking this of Unesco because what is the good of  preaching culture if peace is only a word, if interna-  tional peace is threatened? For my humble part, I  have never felt more at one with myself or with the  Congo than after having discharged my duties towards  others. We lose nothing by admiring other people - on  the contrary, we gain, I think, One of our proverbs  is: "If you respect me, I respect you; if you look  down upon me, I look down upon you". The nations  of the world lack mutual respect. 1am suspicious of  respect imposed by force; 1 believe in the respect of  people who think highly of one another.
8.16 And, in the same vein, I should like to tell  you that my country, like all the countries of Africa,  has enormous tasks to accomplish. From morning to  night we say: "To work, Congolese". But we do  not say to our neighbours : "Fold your arms and  admire us", We hope that they will work, too, and  indeed they are working, The whole of Africa is  athirst for knowledge and eager to work,
8.16 If the African Stales are appealing to their  national conscience first, it is in order that they may  be better able, afterwards, to gear their efforts to  the fulfilrnent of their immediate needs and to estab-  lish a link between those needs and their future  aspirations. We have needs and aspirations in all  fields - including culture. That is why we have come  here, in full force. Our common faith may appear  too self-contained, but we share it with millions of  men throughout the world, who have tasks and duties  to perform, When they are men of science, culture  and education, we find them here - when they are.  politicians, we find them elsewhere,
8.17 In conclusion, I would express my good  wishes, but I realize that 1 have already done so.  May I sum them up here by saying: Peace and  culture and long live Unesco and international  understanding!
9, The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe French):  I call on H, E, Mr. Gerad Jama, Head of the  delegation of Somalia.
10.1 Mr. JAMA (Republic of Somalla) :  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I stand  before you in this great international gathering to  express, on behalf of the Government of the Republic  of Somalia and our people, our deep gratitude to the  United Nations Organization and all its various  Specialized Agencies; because to a great extent we  owe our freedom and independence to them. It ie not  easy for nations who throughout their history have  not been in a position similar to that of Africa in the  last two centuries to comprehend fully the happiness  our people feel when they see the forces of colonial-  fem departing from their lands.
10.2 My people are deeply attached to this
324  PLENARY MEETINGS  Organization, because we feel it is spreading light  and peace throughout the world so that peoples of all  nations, irrespective of thelr colour and creed, may  live together in friendship and co-operation and that  no longer will some nations enslave and oppress  others. -
10.3 Those who have struggled long and bitterly  for their freedom, and who now find such organiza-  tions as Unesco ready to help them, have the right  and duty not only to benefit from guidance and advice  but to contribute goodwill, respect for its principles  and all other co-operation according to their means  and full strength,
10.4 The new nations which have now become  independent in Africa and in Asia have proved to the  world that they are, when given any reasonable chance  to do so, able to do without the control and guardian-  ship of former colonial powers, They are active  builders of a new life, new societies, rational and  frugal communities. It is not therefore to be doubted  that, within a short time, the effects of their work  and co-operation with the rest of the world will be  felt beyond the continent of Africa.
10.5 The new Republic of Somalia which I have the  honour to represent today at this Conference, consists  of the former Somaliland: Protectorate and the ex-  Trusteeship Territory of Somalia. These two zones  of the land of the Somalis united immediately on their  attainment of independence in July 1960,
10.6 Our independence was not without struggle  and loss of lives over a long period of time, but  whatever may have been our past history under the  rule of colonial powers, today we look forward to  the future and try to forget the past, even when it  is very difficult to do so.
10,7 Our unification was immediately successful  and it continues to be equally so, because the Somali  people are the most homogeneous people on the con-  tinent of Africa, We all share one common language,  one history, culture and creed, Even our separation  into five zones, ruled by Italy, France, Britain and  Ethiopia, did not succeed in dividing the natural  unity of our people, ;
10.8 Today three parts ot the country of the somalt  people are still under the rule of France, Britain and  Ethiopia, Surely, the unhappiness of our peopie still  under the yoke of colonialism has increased since the  independence of their brothers! This division of the  Somali people into part free and part slave is ob-  viously unnatural and has no possible justification  except in the language of power, The afbitrary  boundaries created by our foreign rulers, without  regard to our traditional ways of lite, ‘the economy  of the country as a whole, the needs of our people  and the elementary, rights of human beings, has  destroyed not only our freedom but also our economy,
80 that it is no wonder that we are today both poor  and ignorant, Complete disregard for thé interests  of the weak nations still persists in relation to our  country, and we belleve that until we aré finally  united we cannot greatly tmprove our economy, on  which depends our advancement in educ “ton and the  raising of the standard of living of our | Fople, We  cannot hide from the rest of the world tfat today,  for the moat part owing to the long colonial rule  which we have suffered, and are still suffering, the  Somali people are almost totally uninstructed and   PLENARY  ignorant, At the most charitable estimate only 3 per  cent of our people can read and write,
10.9 The Somali people profoundly hope that the  powers who are unnecessarily inflicting this misery  upon us by insisting on ruling over us, will seereason  and decide to win our friendship and future goodwill  rather than sow hatred and strife, The Somalis are  determined to unite but we hope that our unity will be  achieved peacefully,
10.10 In this connexion, I am very sorry to state  that in the month of August 1960 more than 400  Somalis were machine-gunned and killed in their  villages by the forces of His Majesty, the Emperor  of Ethiopia, in a campaign of horror and massa de-  struction, because our people wish to become united  with their own brothers, But machine guns can kill  people, they cannot kill ideas, although this simple  truth 1s not realized by those who are blinded by the  lust for power and the love of killing and enslaving  other human beings.
10.11 There is a general impression nowadays  that the word colonialism refers only to European  powers who rule in Africa and elsewhere in this  world. To us, the Somali people, there is no differ-  ence between European and Ethiopian colonialism.  Colonialism has no colour and today our people are  suffering from both white and black colonialism, In  the name of this great gathering and in the name of  peace and understanding, 1 call upon those who are  still exercising their power over our people torestore  to them their freedom, so as to enable us to turn our  attention to the reconstruction of our country. By  doing so they will gain the friendship and thanks of  our people. There are still some nations who are  unable to learn the lésson of modern history and who  wish to turn back the wheel of thine,
10.12 Mr, President, it is customary in his  gathering for the countries belonging to this great  Organization to give to the audience some indication  of the progress they have made in education and  other fields, Our independence is only five months  old and we have inherited from our former rulers a  host of difficult problems. The little of education  they gave us was in different languages. The law  of our country is writtent in English and Italian,  even our units of measure and weights are of differ-  ent systems,
10.13 We knew the difficulties towards which we  were heading, but our people decided to face them  confidently and to unite, We have never underesti-  mated the seriousness of our decision, but we  believe that a nation that fears its own freedom does  not deserve it, ; Lo
10.14 Since complete peace now prevails through-  out the two reunified zones of our country, we have  been able to begin to examine our position in educa-  tion and our economy and, even in that short period  of five months, there are sigris of improvement. But  our country requires assistance from friendly nations  to help us to overcome our difficulties, particularly  in the fields of education and technical assistance.
10.15 Throughout the period during which we were  under foreign rule our language remained unwritten,  but steps have already been taken to evolve a modern  system of writing the Somali language which we hope  will be completed before long.
10.16 The existing educational system in the country
325  MEETINGS XX  will require to be redesigned so as to meet our im-  mediate needs, of which the most urgent are the  training of teachers and the establishment of technical  assistance projects, .
10.17 Mr, President, I do not wish to tax the pa _  tience of the audience who have listened to me for  this length of time, but we wish, finally to state  before you that the Somali people desire to co-operate  with all nations in spreading peace and understanding  in this world, and particularly in the continent of  Africa, because neighbours, above all, must live  in peace.
10.18 We also hope that the great nation of France,  whose motto "Liberty, Equality, Fraternity" has con-  tributed so much to the development of freedom and  the evolution of human thought, will see fit to free  those Somalis under its rule and allow them to  determine their own future in accordance with the  democratic principles for which Unesco stands,
11.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe French):  Ladies and gentlemen, you will appreciate that I  am in an extremely delicate position, As President,
1 should have preferred not to reply to the Head of  the delegation of Somalia. The question to which he  referred is outside the competence of Unesco, It was  discussed at the United Nations and the Somali accusa-  tions were rejected, Finally, I should like to point  out that the delegate of Somalia submitted his name  afte the list of speakers had been closed and that I  nevertheless decided that he should be allowed to  speak.
11.2 I now call upon Mr. Ouagadjio, delegate of  the Republic of Chad.
12.1 Mr. OUAGALJIO (Chad) (Translation from  the French) :  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very  proud to have been appointed by my Government to  represent the Republic of Chad at this session of the  General Conference of Unesco. This is the second  time within the space of a few months that my country  has acceded to the rank of an international power,  firstly by its admission to the United Nations and now  through its entry into this assembly,
12.2 Under these circumstances, on behalf of my  Government and the President of the Republic of  Chad, Mr. Tombalbaye, I should like to express my  warmest thanks to France and the President of the  French Republic, who honoured us by sponsoring our  application for admission which will, 1 am sure, be  of benefit to my country, We are basing great hopes  on such aid as Unesco can give our people in con-  tinuing and developing on a larger gcale the educa-  tional activity initiated by France.
12.3 How much there is to be done in the scientific  and cultural spheres]: This is virgin soil, but un-  fortunately we have not enough material means to  secure satisfactory results. We need the aid, the  experience and the understanding of other nations.  We believe that what our leaders and students are  aiming at will gradually be achieved as a result of  our admission to Unesco and will no longer be a  - mere dream,
12,4 We are fully aware of our backwardness in  the sphéte of education and we know what impulse
1s needed in order that the proportion of children   XX PLENARY MEETINGS  attending school may be increased, This proportion  is not yet very high, despite all the efforts made by  President Tombaïbayé and the Government, with the  help of Technical Assistance, FEIDOM and FIDES.  We need primary and secondary school teachers and  teaching materials, We hope that other more fortu-  nate nations will be able to provide us with a great  deal of assistance through the medium of Unesco.
12.5 But these are not the only probleme we have  to solve, Another, with which we are still faced, is  that of fundamental education and the teams of experts  required to improve the living conditions of qur people,  A suitable system of this kind can only be initiated by  an organization like Unesco, which has at its disposal  all the necessary modern technical machinery and  can draw on the particular genius and intelligence  of every nation.
12.6 I shall not dwell any longer on the problems  facing my country, which are the same as those of  many of the new African nations which have recently  obtained their independence, We are now no longer  alone in seeking solutions, but are all united in Unesco,
13.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Ladies and gentlemen, the general discussion is  closed, The fact that there have been oyer 90  speakers indicates the importance attributed to  Unesco, I thank all the speakers for their clarity  and brevity and I hope that the atmosphere will be  as friendly next weck as it was during this.  REPLY BY THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL
13.2 I now call upon the Director-General, who  will reply to all the questions raised by the various  speakers,
14.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL (Translation  from the French):  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, the very  large number of speakers participating in the general  discussion provides striking proof, as the President  has just sald, of the interest - I might even say af-  fection - shown by the delegations present, their  governments and their people, in and for the work of  Unesco. .
14,2 In view of this large number of speakers, 1  hope jou will forgive me if, while trying to group  together the answers I intend giving you, I am unable  to reply to every question and every statement, I  shall try not to refer to any one speech in particular  but shall; as I said before, endeavour to deal with  several at a time when they bear more or less on  the same subject,
14,3 By way of introduction, I should lke to repeat  my thanks to the speakers, without forgetting those  who made criticisms, however severe, since these  also testify to their interest in the Organization's  work. I should like, .too, to thank the Executive  Board, - whose Chairman was kind enough to open  this discussion, and the Reports Committee, par-  ticularly its Chairman, who madé suggestions con-  cerning the form of the Director-General's Report.  This is a’subject which will be studied later and 1  shall be guided by the conclusions reached when the.  time comés to prepare future reports.  N 326
14.4 According to the agenda, the discussion was  to bear on the Reports of the Director-General but in  fact - as is only natural - it also covered the future  programme, -I shall therefore repeat that specific  proposals for the 1961-1962 Programme are already  being considered by the Programme Commission and  will be discussed and voted on by it: The budget  ceiling has been adopted unanimously and is now not  only higher than that for the previous two-year period  but also higher than that proposed by the Director-  General. The findings of the Programme Commission  will have to be examined and special efforts made to  see that.they are in line with the decisions taken,  since new suggestions with important budgetary im-  plications, which have already been adopted or will  be adopted, go beyond the ceiling fixed, Thenecessary  adjustments will therefore have to be made, in ac-  cordance with long-established practice. -
14,5 I should like to deal with three groups of  problems. These are, firstly, the Report on the  activities of the last two years, secondly, educational  problems and, finally, the adaptation of the Organiza-  tion and its machinery to new circumstances.
14,6 With regard to the Report itself, I can only  derive very great encouragement and satisfaction  fromthe approval expressedin general by the various  delegations with regard to the execution of the Pro-  gramme, It is our duty to implement the decisions  of the General Conference and, in so doing, to  respond to the requests and needs of Member States,  However, the great majority of you have taken the  trouble to point out that this has been done and 1  repeat that this fact ls a great source of encourage-  ment both to myself and to the Secretariat.
14.7 During the discussion of this Report, a very  important fact was brought out, namely the entry of  new members into our family. The Congo (capital:  Leopoldville) has just joined Unesco and I believe  that we shall have 100 Member States by the end of  the Conference. This highly significant fact calls  for only two comments on my part. Firstly, you  have noted that the Secretariat did not wait for these  new Member States to be formally and officially ad-  mitted before taking steps to meet their needs and  that, within limits, the proposed programme pro-  vided for the necessary measures to give these new  States the impression, from the moment they joined  us, of being in a family already fully prepared to  welcome them,
14,8 The sécond observation 1 should like to make  in this regard {s that the high standard of thé addres-  ses delivered by the delegates of these States, and  the dignity they displayed, clearly showed that they  were fully aware of the rights and duties attendant on  their entry into the Organization, for this enables  them not ‘only to benefit by Unesco's ald but also to  make their own contribution,
14.9 Attention was also drawn during the discussion  of the Director-Gerneral's Report to the speed with  which events havé succeeded one another in recent  months, particularly within the United Nations, and  to the appeals sent us by thé Economic and Social  Council, There too, the Organization has had to  make a special effort to keep up with the tempo of  life in the world today and in the States making up  the international community.
14.10 For this purpose, we have also done our   PLENARY MEETINGS  utmost, as you have acknowledged, to seize every  opportunity of obtaining extra-budgetary funds that  could be added to our Regular budget. I mention this  in order to express the Organization's gratitude  publicly to the Technical Assistance Board and the  Speclal Fund, which have always given sympathetic  consideration to Unesco's requests relating to the  needs of Member States, Finally, I should also like  to refer to the satisfaction you have shown in regard  to the great undertaking launched at the beginning of  the year, namely the Campaign to Save the Monuments  of Nubia. You have been kind enough to acknowledge  the fact that the Secretariat has been capable of  meeting an unexpected situation and of attributing the  importance it deserved to the preservation of an im-  portant part of the cultural heritage of mankind.
14.11 I should like to say that none of this would  have been possible without the hard work and com-  petence of a Secretariat which, while not perfect -  no one is perfect - has made every effort to live up  to the tasks incumbent upon it,
14.12 1 should like to give vent at once to the feel-  ing of bitterness I experienced on hearing certain  criticisms of the Secretariat, I have already ex-  pressed my opinion on one point which I considered  inadmissible. 1 should particularly like to tell you  how grateful I am to all those delegations who ex-  pressed their appreciation of the efforts made by the  Secretariat as a whole, and gave it the praise it  deserves and the support it needs, Of course we  can improve our working methods, our contacts with  permanent delegations and with Member States;  naturally, we can - and ought - during our missions,  our visits and our travels, to try and perform our  task still better than in the past, But all this is  based on something which I must stress with the  utmost force, namely, integrity, a sense of service  due to the international community, and devotion and  consclentiousness in the performance of duties,  sometimes carried almost to breaking point: as  head of the Secretariat; I claim that these qualities  are, on the whole, characteristic of members of the  Secretariat, as they go about their daily work.
14.13 One delegation was good enough to remind  you that someone had lost his life on the field of  honour, in the performance of his duties, If I also  mention this, it is not because I! wish to introduce  an emotional note, but because I think to evoke this  moving fact will help to emphasize all J have said  about the Secretariat and all that I intend to do in  the future, in order that it may be even better filled  to acquit itself of its imposing responsibilities,
14,14 . The criticisms of the Secretariat were  mainly directed against ite geographical make-up.  In this connexion, I feel that I myself am under fire,  since it is my responsibility to select the members  of the Secretariat. This te an item included on the  agenda of the Administrative Commission. The  document which I have distributed shows very clearly  that there has been a distinct improvement in geo-  graphical distribution from the point of view of those  countries which were either insufficiently represented  or not represented at all. :
14.15 A g-eat deal still remains to be done, How-  ever, ladies and gentlemen, you know that the com-  position of the Secretariat must not be based on geo-  graphical distribution alone, but also on the
327  xx  professional qualifications of candidates for vacant  posts, People are not recruited in groups; specific  posts are filled when they become vacant.
14,16 Wheneyer I have to make an appointment, .  these two factors - and others as well - have to be  taken into account. Since the choice - like all cholces -  is always difficult, I am constantly faced with a ques-  tion of conscience and I try to act in the fairest pos-  sible way.
14,17 1 repeat that the improvement is evident  from the figures, There is not, and there cannot  conceivably be, such a thing as a recruitment policy  of systematic discrimination, as some delegates  described it. What is systematic is the dttempt at  improvement which I shall continue to make, even  if it does not alwaye satisfy everyone. Since there  are clauses in the Constitution and Staff Regulations  to protect the rights of the staff and to gulde the  Director-General in this particularly difficult task,  let me gay that I can see no possibility of introducing  the proposed tripartite system into the Secretariat,  In my opinion, It is impossible to define clearly and  the Constitution - if it ie not amended - makes no  provision for it whatsoever.
14,18 In concluding my remarks on the criticisms  and proposals made în this respect, I shall speak of  the duties of the Director-General, 1 believe that  these duties cannot be considered separately from  myself as an individual. The Constitution provides  for a head of the Secretariat. I have no choice but  to continue to discharge these duties to the best of  my ability, I am obliged to reject any other solution  for the directorship of the Secretariat. If the pur-  pose of the proposal is aimed at me as an Individual  and not at the post as such, that {s an entirely differ-  ent matter. It is for you to judge, But while the  Conetitution remains as it is, the Secretariat of  Unesco is headed by a Director-General,
14.19 Another criticism made in connexion with  the Report on the two-year period which is about to  end was that it did not give due prominence to the  ste).s taken in pursuance of the Executive Bodrd's  resolution concerning the resolution of the United  Nations General Assembly on general and complete  disarmament. It is not true to say that I did not  mention it, 1 refer you to the text of my Report,  Although the Executive Board did not request me -  officially to report to the General Conference, but  only to the Board, I have mentioned in my Report  to the Conference the only action which 1 can possibly  -take ; before general and complete disarmament is  achieved or even begun, all that I have been asked  to do is to take all appropriate measures to bring  about the formation, inall Member States, of a climate  of opinion favourable to the idea of disarmament.
14.20 As I have said and writtenin my capacity as  head of the Secretariat and representative of the Organi-  zation,I have not misséd a single opportunity - and I be-  lieve that the post! hold is sufficiently important and re-  presentative of the Organizailon to allow meto speak on  its behalf - Ihave not migsed a single opportunity to  associate myself, in accordance with my convictiuns,  withthe hope of general and complete disarmament, by  . emphasizing that it would open up hitherto unknown pros-  pects for education and culture, but that all this would not  be possible without international agreement.
14,21 Ladies and gentlemen, you are the   XX PLENARY  representatives of governments, ‘Do not ask the  Director-General {o'do more than you are capable of  doing you are capable of doing yourselvés.
14,22 1 shall continue to express this belief, this  conviction,’ If concrète proposals are brought before  the Programme Commission, I shall naturally bear  them in mind to the fullest possible extent, However,  with regard to the Report, I hope that I have done  everything 1 possibly could. In ending my reply on  this first part of the Report, ! shall not dwell on two  items which were also criticized, namely the imple-  mentation of the emergency programme for the Congo,  which the United Nations Security Council requested  us to undertake, and the question of administrative  methods and the reduction cf administrative costs.
1 do not believe that you in this assembly would like  to start a discussion on this subject, which might  overlap with that taking place in the appropriate  organs of the Conference.
14.23 If youwill allow me, I should like now to  consider that other group of very important remarks  and statements concerning the most recent events and  future prospects in the vast sphere of education, which  i{s one of our main concerns, Without overlookingthe  balance that must be maintained among the various  departments and activities of Unesco, I believe I can  say that the vast majority, if not all, of the delega-  tions represented here have acknowledged that I have  adopted the correct policy in giving special priority  to this category of Unesco's activities. I should like  to say that ! appreciate particularly the remarks and  suggestions made regarding tha necessary planning,  the training of senior personnel, and the need to take  account of all levels of education in the widest sense  of the term.
14.24 All these suggestions are being constantly  borne in mind by myself and my colleagues. ‘1 should  like to thank you for your unanimous appreciation of  our endeavours to draw up as complete a picture as  possible of world needs, Henceforth, it must in all  conscience be acknowledged that education is the  foundation and keystone of economic and social  development,
14.25 If I took the opportunity of speaking about  the crisis in education, as some of you observed, I  did so in à positive sense, i, e. to stress the im-  portance of education in national development,
14.26 ° As was remarked, the expansion and ex>  tension of the education programme to all parts of  the world implies a certain amount of regionaliza-  tion, It is obvious that the needs and characteristics  are not the same for every continent, But this does  not mean, even if we are obliged to supervise certain  aspects of the éxecution of our programme on the  spot, that the regionalization of educational pro-  grammes necessarily implies the decentralization  of the organs of Unesco,
14.27 After heaving your remarks, 1 should like to  emphasize two things which I consider very important,  In the first place, none of our activity in the field of  education, whatever form it may take, is in any way  designed to impose a specific system of education,  In utilizing the means at Unesco's disposal, close  contact will be maintained with Member States and  their wishés and the specific needs of the different  countries taken into consideration.
14.28 Further, however much the means made  N 328  MEETINGS  available for educational programmes ‘may be in- .  creased, the discrepancy between thé needs and the  possibilities of meeting them will still be tremendous,  The existing needs and our means are entirely dispro-  portionate. In any event, I repeat, we shall try to  add to the regular budget all the resources we can  possibly obtain, those I have already mentioned  - Technical Assistance and the Special Fund - those  which the new International Development Association  and the Inter-American Development Bank will set  aside for education and, finally, those of the Emer-  gency Fund for Africa, the establishment of which  has been proposed and on which the Conference will  have to decide, ! would also mention the appeal which  it has been proposed to address to the United Nations  in order that educational needs may be taken into  consideration,
14,29 It might have been sald that the Secretariat  and the Director-General have perhaps run a very  serious risk and that what has been charitably  described as a sign of courage was perhaps simply  rashness or lack of restraint. To have drawn up  this extensive list of needs when we realized that we  did not have the necessary means to meet them might  well have laid us open to criticism,
14,30 Well, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that,  had I acted in any other way, the Organization and I  myself might quite rightly have been accused of re-  fusing to shoulder our responsibilities, It would be  unworthy of an Organization like ours to turn a blind  eye to the facts and the needs, even if we realize  that these needs cannot all be satisfied in the im-  mediate future,
14.31 I have already referred to the structure of  the Major Projects and of our efforts in that connexion,  You know that we have provided for the extension of  the campaign for total literacy to all parts of the world.  We shall certainly need experts to help us and to draw  up our programmes, ‘ We must make a start resolu-  tely, but without claiming to do everything and, be-  lieve me, no one knows better than my colleagues  and myself that we ought not to raise hopes which  we cannot fulfil, We have been inspired by that -  prospective" spirit, which was referred to in  connexion with the late Mr. Gaston Berger, who  coined the term. As has been said, while we must  be careful and modest now; we must be ambitious  for the future. It is in this opirit that we shalt carry  out the Organization's programme,
14.32 1 now come to the third and last part of my  reply, which refers to the adaptation of the Organiza-  tion to new circumstances, ,
14.33 I should like to repeat and to emphasize that,  by giving speclal impetus to the expansion of educa-  tional activities and to scientific resedrch, I sin-  cerely believe that I have succeeded - and not merely  outwardly - in achieving real concentration,’ :
14.34 As several delegations have pointed out,  concentration means that oné must avoid dissipation  and eliminate from the. programme; for the benefit  of more important projects, other activities which  may be of minor importance, : This is a course that  must be followed, However, may I point out that,  judging from what 1 have heard so far - including the  speeches made, for example, in the Programme  Commission - none of your delegations, to com-  pensate for certain new activities or special efforts   PLENARY  in a sphere considered of high priority, has pro-  posed the elimination of any other activities.
14,35 In my capacity as Director-General, it is  my duty to take certain initiatives in preparing the  future Programme, It ts perhaps malnly because of  this that I took the initiative of proposing new methods  of drawing up the Programme and Budget, about which
1 shall speak in a few moments. I am convinced that  the concentration achieved through the elimination of  certain activities will sometimes lead to strong re-  actions on the part of Member States. This possi-  bility must be faced bravely. ,
14.36 What | want to make quite clear here is that  concentration, in the technical sense of the term,  implies elimination and that all of you who want con-  centration in this sense - and that is the great ma-  jority - must be prepared to accept the sacrifices it  involves for some Member States.
14.37 I have kept this problem of the Organization's  adaptation to the new circumstances arising in the age  in which we live until the end of my speech precisely  because you have spent a great deal of your time  discussing it.
14,38 Many speakers have wondered whether. the  way in which Unesco at present operates is suitable  for the new needs. Operation means structure, and  structure means working methods.
14.39 I have taken the initiative - and the Confer-  ence will discuss this - of proposing new methods of  preparing the Programme and Budget, The present  method has been described here, 1 helieve, or in one  of the organs of the Conference; as one of continuous  shuttling between different bodies. Not only does this  method make it impossible for a Director-General  and a Secretariat,: however competent; intelligent,  imaginative and full of genius they may be, to become  supermen who know and read attentively one-fifth of  the documents - 1 can assure you that, without being  a superman, the percentage, as far as I am concerned,  is much higher - but, what is impossible for men like  us is to embark, immediately the session of the  General Conference is over, on two tasks quickly and  simultaneously, i.e. on the implementation of the  decisions taken and on the preparation of the future  programme - and to do this with the amount of re-  flection, the overall view and the spirit of synthesis  and concentration that you expect of us.
14.40 This Is the basis on which I have worked out  these new methods which are to be studied by a  special working party and which, I am certain, your  delegations will consider with the greatest attention  and interest. As for the suggestion made by the  delegation of Brazil concerning the form and actual  content of the proposed programme and the possible  decisions that the Conference would have to take, not  only on the draft resolutions but also on the work  plans, this problem, in my opinion, touches on a  very difficult constitutional point.
14,41 Some speakers went much further, proposing  that sessions of the Conference be held every three  or four years only, Another delegation, considering  that it is becoming increasingly difficult for the  Conference to exercise any control over the activities  of the Organization, recommended a semi-permanent  basic programme and sessions dealing far more  specifically with the execution of the programme and  the planning of selected activities.  MEETINGS XX
14.42 Finally, there was a proposal to hold major  sessions every four years, for the purpose of dis-  cussing and adopting a quadrennial programme, with  minor interim session, the main purpose of which  would be to foi! ow the implementation of the pro-  gramme. ;
14,43 These tdèrs, and the principles underlying  them, are certainly most interesting. Fortunately,  the Executive Boar, a itself, through its Chairman and  at his proposal, Las requested its successor, that is,  the new Board, it! study immediately, rapidly and in  agreement with th} Director-General, all possible  methods of improving the functioning of the Organiza-  tion and also the relationships between the various  organs - 1, e. between the pillars of Unesco, estab-  lished by the Constitution: the Secretariat, the  Executive Board and the General Conference.
14.44 Here, then, ls a whole séries of proposals  in which I should ltke publicly to express my keen  interest. With the delegations who spoke on this  subject, I share the conviction that a study must be  made of the question of improving our methods and  perhaps of revising some of the rules and structures  of our Organization, which should change with changing  circumstances and move with thé times,
14.45 There are certain other proposals which I  must mention : the one which quite rightly aims at  avoiding at all costs the addition of large sums to the  budget at the last minute, and the one suggesting a  regular lump-sum increase from one financial period  to the next. As I have said, all these proposals will  be studied, The budget problem has also come up in  connexion with another question which I think is very  important - that of keeping a general check on activi-  ties financed by the Regular budget and those financed  by extra-budgetary funds, the amount of which cannot  be determined by the General Conférence,
14.46 Finally, several delegates expressed the  opinion that the General Conference is virtually  committed to the Proposed Programme and Budget,  since it is practically impossible to Introduce any  important amendments during sessions of the Confer-  ence ;, they also thought that a careful stidy should be  made of the whole functioning of the Conference,”
14,47 All 1 am doing now is to remind you of the  problems raised and to repeat that I fully‘agreee on  the importance of these proposals and the need to  study them. Before concluding, ladies and gentlemen,  I would venture to say that; in'my opinion, you should  follow with special interest the general debate which  will begin in plenary meeting towards the end of the  session on international relations and exchanges in  education, science and culture, and ‘will be based on  the report that we drew up al the request of the  Economic and Social Council, Even if this debate  should not culminate in any formal soncluslonhs, it  will certainly be useful in providing à background  for activities and relations for which the Organiza-  tion as such cannot assume sole responsibility.
14,48 I apologise for the length of my address. ,  I have tried, by consulting my notes and classifying  under these three headings what seemed to me to be  the essence of your debate, to forget nothing. If I  have done s0 nevertheless, I crave your indulgence,
14.49 It now remains for the General Conference to  adopt the programme with those adjustments and  amendments which, as I have already said, are
329   XX  dependent on the approval of a number. of draft resolu-  tions additional to those I have rayself submitted, The  General Conference has now tu decide on the logical  and objective relationghip existing between the in-  creased number of activities, the staff available to  carry them out and the space required to work in.  Finally, 1 belleve that the General Conference has  also to declde on its attitude towards ths Campaign  to Save the Monuments of Nubia, in regard to which
1 should like to express my special thanks to those  speakers who said that they were willing to contri-  bute, paritçularly by providing the necessary funds,  The General Conference must reach a decision onthis  Campaign and on those undertakings which the Execu-  tive Board did not for a moment hesitate to support  and to request me to continue energetically,
14.50 Ladies and gentlemen, the man before you,  like all his colleagues on the Secretariat, 1s aware  of thé limita of his physical endurance and abilities,  In addition, being human, he realizes that he is  capable of making mistakes and omissions.
14.61 In this connexion, among the criticisms and  suggestions made, I have accepted all those which I  considered well-founded but, where I felt that they  were not, I have considered it my duty to say so  clearly, In conclusion, I should like to say once  again that the Director-General of Unesco, whoever  he may be, and his colleagues, from the highest to  the lowest in rank, are here to serve an Organization,  which is not a foundation or an institution free to  devate itself to the elaboration of theories and ideas,  but an Organization conditioned by its intergovern-  mental s'ructure - a fact which implies that no policy  discussions are out of place within our walls and that  every State has the right tnd duty to express what-  ever opinion it likes regarding the policy governing  our Organization's activities.
14.52 This Organization belongs to the United  Nations system, a situation which requires that we  redouble our efforts daily to co-ordinate the imple-  mentation of our programme with the activities falling  within the jurisdiction of each of the other organiza-  tions belonging to that system,
14.53 3ut, first and foremost, this Organization  is not the Organization of education, science and  culture, but the Organization for education, science
330  PLENARY MEETINOG  and culture, We have the sacred duty not to forget  what means we have and what are our aims, We are  striving daily and with all our strength to serve the  cause of education, science and culture - and I am  not referring only to the Secretariat, but also to all  of you, both here at the Conference and in your re-  spective countries, For all of us, the supreme  objective is peace, co-operation and understanding.  This 18 what we are seeking to achleve each day to  an ever greater extent,
14.54 I shall close with an anecd te which comes to  my mind, no doubt because 1 feel a certain nostalgia  for the culture and literature of my own country - an  anecdote drawn from Alexandre Manzoni's well-known  novel "The Flancés", At one stage, the author de-  scribes the difficult situation in which the carriage  of the Governor of the City of Milan is plared, in the  midst of a riot in which it te Hable to be overturned,  Confronted with this difficulty, the occupant of the  carriage says to his coachman - a Spaniard -  ", Adelante, Pedrol ; Con juicto!", which means  more or less: "Go ahead all the same, quickly but  carefully". 1 do not want to end on a flippant note,  but in all sincerity I should like to say this to you,  ladies and gentlemen: I, the Director-General, and  all of us ought to "go ahead, but go ahead carefully",
15,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation fronithe French)  Ladies and gentlemen, I interpret your unanimous  applause as signifying a deserved tribute to the  Director-General for his address and for the clarity  with which it was delivered and I am convinced that  you are all satisfied with the answers to which you  have just listened.
15.2 1 should like, on your behalf, to thank the  Director-General for what he has done in the last  two years, I should like to wish him good health and  courage for the coming year, not only for his own  sake, but also for that of Unesco,
15.3 Before closing the meeting, I should like to  inform you that the General Committee of the Confer-  ence will meet at 9 a. m. on Wednesday, 30 November.  The meeting is closed,  The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m.