19 November 1960, at 11,10 a.m.  President: Mr. A.J. DUWUONA-HAMMOND (Ghana)  CONTENTS  Address by H.E, Mr. Lapin, Head of the delegation of the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the occasion of the  fiftleth anniversary of the death of Leo Tolstoy . . . 121  Adoption of Part II of the First Report of the Administrative  Commission  ADDRESS BY H.E. MR, LAPIN, HEAD OF THE DELEGATION OF THE  UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS ON THE OCCASION OF  THE FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY OF THE DEATH OF LEO TOLSTOY
1. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the eighth plenary  meeting open and I call upon H. E, Mr. Lapin,  Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Soviet  Soclalist Federative Republic, Mr. Lapin has  expressed a desire to say a few words on the  occasion of the 60th anniversary of the death of  Leo Tolstoy.
2.1 Mr. LAPIN (Union of Soviet Soctalist Republics)  (Translated from the Russian):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, there has grown  up in our Organization the excellent tradition of  observing significant dates in the history of literature,  culture and science. Only a short while ago, we had  the great satisfaction of participating in the ceremonies  commemorating the great Rabindranath Tagore.
2.2 Today I have been given the opportunity to say  a few worda from this exalted tribune concerning the  great Russian thinker and writer, -Leo Nikolaevich  Tolstoy. Tomorrow, the 20th of Novembér, it will  be exactly 50 years since the day of his-déath, The  splendid gentus of Tolstoy is being honoured not only  by the Soviet people but by the whole of mankind,
2.3 In my country Leo Nikolaevich Tolstoy is  remarkably popular, During the period of Soviet  rule alone his works have beén published in editions  comprising altogether over a hundred million copies.  Tolstoy's books have been translated into the 82  languages of the peoples inhabiting the great Soviet  Union, During these days numerous ceremonies  commemorating the great thinker and writer are  taking place throughout the Soviet Union. In works  and factories, on collective farms, evérywhere  lectures are being delivered and artistic evenings  held in honour of Tolstoy. Recently the fullest  edition of the collected works of Tolstoy, which had  already been commenced at the suggestion of Lenin,  has been completed. This edition is composed of 90
122  volumes of the works of Leo Nikolaevich. The theatres  are presenting plays by Tolstoy and dramatized  versions of his novels, the cinemas are showing films  inspired by the subjects of hia novels, the radio and  all the other cultural media have been popularizing on  a wide scale the creative work of Tolstoy, the most  popular writer of the Soviet people and a favourite  writer of the peoples of the whole world.
2,4 The interest in '[olstoy 18 so great that it is now  difficult to visit any of the Tolstoy museums, 1 must  point out that all the memorable places connected  with Tolstoy have been turned into museums. The  estate of Yasnaya Polyana, where he spent a consider-  able part of his life, has been turned into a museum,  The apartments in which he lived in Moscow have  also been turned into museums. The schedule of  visits for those wishing to visit Tolstoy's house in  Moscow is already being made up for January. So  great is the interest in his memory.
2.5 The greatness of Tolstoy also lies in the fact  that he displayed an immense interest in the great  culture of the East. He did an extraordinary amount  towards popularizing the literatures of India, the  Arabic East, Persia, China, Japan, etc. His ties  with the great creative contemporaries of those  nations were extraordinarily solid, People were  anxious to visit Yasnaya Polyana in order to meet  Tolstoy, to talk to him, to shake his hand. Many  publications due to Tolstoy's initiative, in particular,  his Spelling book, his books for everyday reading, in  which he sought to pass on to mankind the most  significant ideas, drew upon the very rich heritage of  the works, ideas and statements of the creative minde  of the Fast. In this regard Tolstoy did very much  indeed,
2.6 Tolstoy 1s also very popular fri the West. There  is no need to speak about this in detail. We know  from Unesco documents that the works of Tolstoy,  like those of Dostoyevski and Gorky, those great  Russian writers, have repeatedly been translated  into European languages and that they are foremost  among the world classics most frequently translated.  In these lists the name of Tolstoy ranks with that of  the great Shakespeare.   VIII PLENARY
2,7 In marking the occasion of the 50th anniversary  of the death of Tolstoy, we cannot help directing our  attention also to his philosophy, to his deuntless  fight against all forma of persecution and injustice,  You recall and are familiar with Tolstoy's philosophy,  connected with the principle of not resisting evil by  violence, For all its weakness, that philosophy is  based on the great idea of love for mankind, And  Tolstoy remained throughout his whole life an  implacable opponent of all oppression, no matter what  form it took, He condemned all the wars waged in his  time and always gave moral support through his words  to the struggle for the liberation of mankind, Tolstoy  sald that preparations for war and armies were as  much zn evil as war itself,
2.8 I would Hke to tell you about one little episode.  In the last days of his Life, while going through his  vast mail and talking with his secretary, Tolstoy  sald: "If a man from Mars happened to descend upon  our earth and saw that 99% of the people here labour  incessantly and Uve in want, deprived of the riches  and joy of art, while at the same time one per cent of  the people are able to enjoy all the benefits of science  and art, what would this man from Mars say?"  According to Tolstoy the man from Mars would say:  "It is bad; life {a still badly arranged on the earth."  And it 18 true, mankind cannot be happy if only €.  small part of it is able to enjoy the benefits of science,  culture and art, while at the same time a considerable  part ie still deprived of all this, still remaina illiter-  ate and is subjected to oppression.  . 2.9 Tolstoy was a firm opponent of all forms of  oppression, and his implacable fight against this still  flluminates the path for the Soviet people and all  mankind. The splendid genius of Tolstoy, his great  artistic works, his profound ideas, directed towards  brirging the peoples closer together so as to bring  about greater trust, greater love, greater mutual  understanding among them, will serve mankind for  ever in the cause of progress.
3. The PRESIDENT: '  I call upon Mr, Julien Cain of the French  delegation to speak on the same subject.
4,1 Mr, CAIN (France) (Translation from the French):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, our thanks  are due to our colleague, the Head of the Soviet dele-  gation, for having drawn our attention to the celebra-  tion of the 50th anniversary of the death of Leo Tolstoy.
4,2 In so doing, he has followed the policy laid down  by Unesco some years ago with regard to the commem-  oration of important anniversaries of this kind,
4,3 Indeed, Tolstoy's work and ideas, transcending  the boundaries of his country - that great Russia which  he taught us to know and love better - belong to the  whole world and it may be said that several generations  of men, almost everywhere, in the most diverse  countries, have derived much wisdom from them.
4.4 His death left a great gap, but, fortunately, his  work has survived and, as far as my own country is  concerned, is still very much alive, as the enormous  number of translations shows.
4,5 We, in France, do not revere him only as a  -great writer, as the incomparuble author of " War and  Peace", but also as a man, who set a magnificent  example, Writers like Romain Rolland literally lived  MEETINGS  on his ideas. That is why a committee has been  established to organize a tribute to Tolstoy and his  work in a few weeks' time. The Chairman of this  committee is Mr. André Maurois of the French  Academy, A formal meeting will be held at the  Sorbonne and presided over by the Head of our delega-  tion, Mr. Louis Joxe, Minister of Education, and by  Rector Sarrailh. In addition, the National Library  will be holding an exhibition with the help of collections  provided by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
4.6 My country's tribute should show that Tolstoy's  memory still lives in France, as I am sure it does  in all the countries of the Western world.  ADOPTIGH OF PART ll OF THE FIRST REPORT OF THE  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION
5. The PRESIDENT:  The Conference is now called upon to consider item
16 of its agenda, adoption of the draft resolution on the  provisional spending and assessment levels for 1961-
1962, This item will be considered on the basis of  Part II of the first report of the Administrative Com-  mission, document 11 C/14, Part II, I now ask the  Rapporteur of the Administrative Commission,  Mr. Dovey, to present his report.
61 Mr, DOVEY (United Kingdom), Rapporteur of the  Administrative Commission;  Mr, President, I have the honour to present the  second part of the first report of the Administrative  Commission. Since the purpose of this report is  solely to provide the General Conference with the  material for its discussion today the report is brief  and there {s no need for my remarks to be prolonged.  Paragraphs 12 and 13 of the report are an account of  the way in which the Commission dealt with the pre-  paration of the draft resolution which it now submits  to the General Conference and which will be found at  the end of paragraph 13. .
6.2 In preparing this resolutlon, the Commission  took into account the Conference's decisions with  regard to co.tributions from Member States, and in  particular fhe decision to bring to account as  miscellaneous revenue the assessments on new  Member States. The Commission has not of course  suggested any figure for the spending level or the  assessment level, since that is the task of the  General Conference itself. But, to assist the Con-  ference in making {ts choice, the Commission has  annexed to its report a table setting out some  information about the four proposals for budget levels  which are before the Conference.
6.3 These four proposals are: that described in  the resolution of the Executive Board in document
11 C/5 Addendum 1, paragraph 14; the Director-  General's proposal presented orally to the Confer-  ence on 16 November and now circulated in document
11 C/41; the proposal made by Brazil in draft  resolution 11 C/DR/32; and finally, the proposal  made by the United States of America in draft  resolution 11 C/DR/50. These four proposals are  set out in the table annexed to the report in order  of the size of the figures proposed, starting with  the smallest. The table shows for each proposal not  only the spending level but also the corresponding  * 122   PLENARY MEETINGS  amounts to be contributed, first, by old Member  States and, secohd, by those new Member States  whose contributions, in accordance with yesterday's  decision of the Conferénce, will not for the time  being be incorporated in the scale but treated as  miscellan"ous income, Thé total of these two  amount, *iat is to say, first the amount contributed  by old Member States, then the amount contribvted  by new Member States, together with other income  which is a fixed amount of 1,600,000 dollars in each  case, equals the spending level. In the table annexed  to the report, none of the figures for the spending  level makes any provision for any sums that might  be required for further headquarters accommodation,  The draft resolution and the table are the essence of  the Commission's report and I have the honour to  commend them to the attention of the Gener.  Conference.
7. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the Director-General,
8.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL (Translation from  -the French): .  Mr. President and delegates, I belleve that this  is a suitable moment for me to repeat the arguments  in favour of the proposals which are now before you -  in other words, the Director-General's proposals,  The Chairman of the Executive Board and I have  already had an opportunity of outlining them at the  beginning of the work of the General Conference,
8.2 It is my duty - and a very pleasant one ~ to  thank the Administrative Commission, and particu-  larly its Rapporteur, for the clarity of its report and  for the trouble which it has taken to present the  various aspects of the probleni in a coherent fashion,  as it has done in document 11 C/14, Part II, Annex I.  The proposals I made during my speech at the begin-  ning of the Conference's work are contained in  document 11 C/41, which has been distributed,
8.3 I should therefore like to confine my remarks  now to three observations and one conclusion. My  first observation is one which I have already had the  honour of presenting to you. It relates to the  extremely swift tide of events and the complexity of  the efforts required on the part, not only of Unesco  and its Secretariat, but also of the other organizations  with which our activities must be co-ordinated,  These rapid developments, calling for urgent action  by the Unesco Secretariat, have caused difficulties  which I should very much like you to bear in mind.  To act efficiently and speedily, one must have a .  large enough staff and that staff must be able to work  under the best possible conditions. This is my first  observation.
8.4 Its purpose is to inform you that the total of the  provisional spending level which I propose is, {in my  opinfon, the minimum required to ensure the efficiency  of our work.
8.5 This brings me to my seccnd observation: I  would point out that the problem of the space neces-  sary to ensure proper working conditions for the  Secretariat has been clearly stated and that this is  not a question of secondary importance which can be  discussed at a later stage. That is why I should like  to thank the Administrative Commission for having  referred to it both in the resolution before you and in
123  vill  the note at the end of the table contained in Annex I of  the document, May I add that this explicit reference  to a need which ! consider vital does not in any way  prejudice the discussions shich will shortly be taking  place, when I have secured all the necessary data  after my negotiations - which are absolutely neces-  sary - with the French Government. This in no way  jeopardizes the freedom of the Headquarters Com-  mittee or the Administrative Commission, which will  have to discuss this subject and submit their recom-  mendations to you, to make their own assessment.  Meanwhile, I shall try to clarify the various aspects  of the problem, with particular reference to the  financing of the new building, I mean to say that I  have already started to make a careful study of the  possibility of drawing on the Working Capital Fund  during the 1961-1962 budgetary period, which would  obviate the necessity to include additional amcunts in  the Regular budget. I shall be submitting my propo-  sala to the Headquarters Committee and the Admini-  strative Commission with a view, I repeat, to making  it easier for the General Conference to take a decision  on this question, which is of vital importance to the  Secretariat,
8.6 My third observation is to remind the General  Conference, before it reaches a decision on the  provisional spending and assessment levels, that the  Programme Commission has already begun its work  and that, in addition to the proposed programme and  budget, it has to consider all the new draft resolutions  submitted by Member States, which are extremely  interesting and varied and will certainly lead to  adjustments and amendments to the programme pro-  posals I have submitted, However, it ia not possible  at this moment to anticipate the budgetary implications  of such changes fn relation to the final spending level,  which will emerge from the discussions of the General  Conference.
8.7 In conclusion, I should like to express my most  sincere thanks to two Member States - Brazil and the  United States o: America - for their proposals to  raise the budget ceiling to an amount higher than that  which I myself proposed. I think I should emphasize  this, since it illustrates my first observation con-  cerning the swift tide of events and the urgency of the  needs which we have to meet, I therefore thank these  two Member States and hope that the General Confer-  ence will agree to accept the highest ceiling proposed,  as set out in the table annexed to the document before  you.
8.8 I should also lke to mention the Special Account  which has been opened for the voluntary contributions  of Member States willing to participate in it, These  contributions may enable you to accept such new pro-  posals as the Programme Commission may submit to  you at the end of the Conference.
8.9 I should like to conclude this short statement by  expressing my feeling of great confidence, and my  profound gratitude for the proposals that have been  made.
9. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the Head of the delegation of the United  States of America, Mr. Thayer.
10.1 Mr. THAYER (United States of America):  Mr. President, it is alwaya a great temptation on   VITE PLENARY  mounting this rostrum and noting the representatives  assembled at this Conference, to launch into a  general discussion of what we can all do to assist  the new peoples of thé world, May I also express my  pleasure at seeing in the Chair today another rep-  resentative of the great continent of Africa,
10,2 But there comes a time, Mr. President,  when we must get down to the hard facts and talk  about dollars and cents, which is what we are here  to do today, in performing the all important task of  deciding upon the amount of money necessary to  carry out our objectives and maintain the operations  of Unesco for the next two years, You are all fully  aware of the dramatic incidents which have been  occurring in the world and which provide the basis  for the budget proposals that have been made and  that are before you today. I am sure you will all  have noted the draft resolution placed before this  Organization by the Government of the United States  of America, In addition to the money requested by  the Director-General and recommended by the Exe-  cutive Board, my Government is not only recom-  mending, but urging, that the Unesco budget be  increased by $1,000,000 above that amount to a total  sum of $31,597,628, to provide specifically for  educational assistance to the countries of Africa.  Their needs, and the position of the United States  regarding those needs, I set before you a few days  aga in the Programme Commission. We have all  been dramatically aware of the increased needs of  this area and have noted Mr. Hammarskjold's  effective leadership in meeting the crisis which  arose suddenly in Africa during the summer. We  may all take great pride in the fact that Unesco was  called upon to furnish aid and counsel during that  period and to assist the United Nations to provide  in some measure for the continuation and the pos-  sible improvement of education in the Congo. We  are indeed much indebted, Mr, President, to the  Director-General and his staff for their ability to  rise to this crisis and face {t, and for making such  an important contribution in that emergency.
10.3 As I said in the Programme Commission, on
22 September 1960, President Eisenhower made a  strong recommendation to the United Nations General  Assembly that a major effort be made by all nations,  unitediy, to further the development of African  countries. In the fifth point of the President's pro-  gramme, a proposal was made for an all-out United  Nations effort to help African countries launch such  educational activities as they may feel to be appro-  priate. And I wish to emphasize that it was the  President'a proposal that the African countries  should co-operate and come to us and to all the  United Nations to allow us to kriow what their needs  were. This was the clarion call for nations to  forget their political differences and to unite in  aiding this area where millions of péople are taking  their first indepeadent steps in self<government,  In addition, on 13 October 1960, five of the African  Member States introduced to the Assembly of the  United Nations a résolution expressing three principal  hopes in so far as education is concerned: that the  Member States in question make ''an assessment of  ‘their immediate requirements"; secondly, "that  the Secretary-General confer with the Director-  General of Unesco with a view to preparing a  MEETINGS  programme of practical action in the field of educa-  tion" and, lastly, that "any resources made avail-  able to the United Nations be used to assist Africa  without prejudice to assistance to other countries" .  The challenge has been laid before us and it is up to  us to meet that challenge when we consider the budget  that has been placed before Unesco by its Director-  General.
10.4 Now to his recommendations we have added  the request for $1,000,000, So great is the need  that the budget increases advacated by the Director-  General and the additional million dollars must seem  inadequate. Of course they are inadequate, there is  not enough money in the world to suy‘ply the present  needs of all of these countries,
10.5 But our first considerations in this matter are  that, heavy though the burdens of international assist-  ance may be on the more affluent countries, there  can be no doubt that by the improvident raising of the  Unesco ceiling we would be placing additional financial  responsibilities on the shoulders of nations less  prosperous than ourselves, and would thus be likely  to create strains on their economies, After all,  Mr. President, Unesco cannot do everything, {t  cannot fill every need, it must restrict itself to those  things wich it can do most effectively. In arriving  at the budget figure of $31,597,628 my Government  teels that this would provide Unesco with funds suf-  ficient for its use at the immediate moment without  overburdening the Organization before it has time to  secure the requisite staff, facilities and administra-  tive skills demanded by the new rôle that it is being  called upon to play.
10.6 Secondly, let us remember that Unesco is not  a bank, it 1s not Unesco's job to meet the billion  dollar needs of every area in the world. This can be  achleved only by a common effort not only of the  countries themselves but by a generously expanded  programme of the international agencies concerned  with multilateral aid, such as the United Nations  Technical Assistance programme, the Special Fund,  the International Development Association, the  International Development Bank and others in these  fields, Nor should we ignore the availability of  private sources of capital, or the bilateral pro-  grammes which are now being carried out and which  must be carried out in ever increasing amounts. As  I said before the Programme Commission, Mr, Presi-  dent, there must be massive, multilateral, bilateral  and private organization, and also individual govern-  ment co-operation, in this great task that lies  before us. : CL
10.7 In proposing an expansion of the Unesco pro-  gramme for Africa by $1,000,000 we simply wish to  make sure that this Organization can play an effect-  ive rôle within the total effort by helping develop  appropriate measures and programmes - of course,  within the purview of its established competence in  the fields of education, aclence and culture. Now,  may I make it very plaiu that the United States has  no desire whatsoever, in proposing this additional  $1,000,000, to impose its will on this Conferance as  to how that money should be spent. We do not wish  at this point to propose a specific programme of  action for the use of this money, because the deter-  mination of the needs and the means of meeting  these needs must be the responsibility of this   PLENARY MEETINOS  Conference which, with the help of the Secretariat  and particularly with the help of the African govern-  ments concerned, should develop an intelligent and  practical programme, We cannot walk into any  country of Africa and say; ‘You will haye this  form of education or that form of education". Why  should these countries gain their independence if  they are going to be told by anybody, multilateral  organizations or individual organizations, how to  run their own affairs? It is up to them to deter-  mine what thelr needs are and to come to Unesco  and to the rest of us aad, sitting.down with us, plan  how we can help them. We suggest that the appro-  priate working group begin these deliberations  without delay, we shall join our fellow delegates in  a common effort to produce an efficient, construct-  ive and statesmanlike programme. We further  suggest that this working group give special atten-  tion to the type of activities discussed by the rep-  resentative of the Director-General in the Pro-  gramme Commission, specific activities such as  teacher training, teacher recruitment, aid in the  provision of textbooks, provision of basic and  simple laboratory equipment. All these matters  should receive the special attention of the working  group.
10.8 May I say, Mr. President, that one of the  most important elements to be considered at some  later time must be the planning of our activities,  I cannot emphasize tco strongly the importance of  careful planning of all that we hope to be able to do,  and I must take time at this point to say that we are  happy to note that in this budget our other friends  in the Far East, the Middle East, in the Arab world  and Latin America are not being forgotten or  slighted. The funds which have been provided in  this budget will carry on the programmes in these  areas that have been so successfully undertaken  over the past budget period, I know that they will  not begrudge the added emphasis that they, as well  as we, feel is necessary to meet the most recent  demand on Unesco resources from the newly  emerged States fn Africa. We have emphasized  Africa in the Programme Commission, not because  its requirements are more worthy of consideration  than those of other areas in need, but because, as  we have tried to show in the charts that we  presented before the Programme Commission and  which were reproduced in the Journal and will be  available here today during the course of our debate,  the African continent up to date has been the area  of the world least favoured by Unesco in {ts pro-  gramme. It is because we feel that the time has  come to redress the balance that we are supporting  the Director-General's budget as approved by the  Executive Board, plus an additional $1,000,000 for  Africa. And I believe, Mr. President, that it is of  particular importance to béar this point in mind  during our debate. Of course there are going to  be resolutions put forward during this Conference  which may require additional funds - they have  already béen tabled - which should be given every  conceivable consideration, and we should not com-  pletely bind ourselves in any way. We should  always remain flexible, but I submit that our flexi-  bility. will be destroyed unless we keep ourselves  within reason and unless, also, we keep our eyes
125  VIII  fixed on the preceni-day needs, in order that we  can move forward together later on.
10.9 Therefore, Mr, President, I formally move  that this Conference approve a spending level of  $31,597,628 for the Unesco prograinme and budget  for 1961 and 1962 - a budget that Is aimed as never  before at providing a balanced programme of educa-  tional, scientific and cultural assistance so desper-  ately needed by so many nations in this new world  community today.  The PRESIDENT:  I call upon H,E, Mr..P, de Berredo Carneiro,  Head of the delegation of Brazil.
12,1 Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  (Translation from the French):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, it is traditional  for the representative of Brazil to take part in the  debate when it comes to fixing the budge! celling of  our Organization.
12.2 Since that ill-fated day on which a great  Director-General of Unesco, Mr. Torres Bodet,  was obliged to resign because he was refused the  equivalent of a handful of matches to carry on the  programme of this Organization, we Brazilians  have made consistent efforts to reinforce, from one  year to the next, the most pitifully small budget  imaginable to satisfy the world's tremendous needs  in the fields of education, science and culture.
12.3 People sometimes suppose that when we ask  for an increase in the budget proposed by the  Director-General, we are imposing sacrifices on  our Member States; this is a basic misconception.
1s any sacrifice involved in requesting that a  contribution of some thousandth or hundredth of a  dollar per inhabitant per annum be doubled or  trebled? The poorest of us can easily contribute  far more than this tiny fraction of a dollar for  which he is asked, -
12.4 The Government of Brazil, aware of the diffi-  culty of securing increasing resources for the exe-  cution of Unesco's programine, proposed, at the  Montevideo Conference in 1954, the establishment  of a Special Account to receive the contributions of  Member States whose annual per capita income was  high enough to enable them to make a voluntary  financial contribution to the Organization.
12.5 This Special Account, opposed for a long  time, was finally approved in 1958. But unfortu-  nately, as soon as it had been approved, after long  and difficult negotiations, we listened to a series of  statements to the effect that none of those to whom  we were appealing felt inclined to contribute to the  Spacial Account. Only the Government of Brazil  and, I understand, very recently the Republic of  Ghana, have so far contributed to it. This is not  encouraging, nor is it uplifting for this Organization,  to be deprived of resources to such a point.
12.6 Unesco has long experience in its own sphere  of activities; it has an admirably trained Secretariat.  Every contribution it receives will find the intel-  lectual and material machinery necessary for it to  be put to the best possible use through the medium  of Unesco. It is a saving for us, in our several  countries, to make use of Unesco to develop our  educational programmes, research programmes or   vil PLENARY  programmes for the exchange of persons. It is not  spending money or throwing it away to decide to  contribute more to Unesco's budget.
12.7 This year, when we are particularly delighted  to see the great republic of the United States of  America join with those who have, for so long,  been making strenuous efforts to increase the size  of this Organization's budget, I shall be the happlest  member of this assembly if I can support the United  States proposal, after receiving some explanations.
12.8 The first proposal to raise the budget ceiling  was submitted by the Government of Brazil, which  asked for two million dollars more than the figure  proposed by the Director-General in document
11 C/6. Since then, however, the Director-General  himself - and he was certainly right to do so - has  increased the total of his budget proposals by  absorbing a part (about one million dollars) of the  two million which the Brazilian Government had  suggested.
12.9 Later, when the Director-General presented  his programme, he drew attention to new Increases.  In fact, whether we base ourselves on the proposal  of the United States or on that of Brazil, there is  no lenger any question of an increase of a million  dollars over and above the figure given by the  Director-General, We are now faced with an  increase of $668,500 according to the proposal of  the United States and $531, 500 according to that of  Brazil.
12,10 Leaving figures aside, what difference is  there between the two proposals? An important  difference, but the last speech made by the Head of  the delegation of the United States leads me to hope  that ft can be smoothed out. However, before we  commit ourselves officially, I should like some  specific information regarding the spirit and scope  of the United States’ proposal, The Brazilian pro-  posal introduced no discrimination; its aim was to  provide an increased budget for Unesco's pro-  gramme as a whole - and not for any particular  region of the world - this budget to be fixed by the  General Conference, its Administrative Commission  and its Programme Commission in accordance with  proposals made by the various countries and, if  possible, in such a way as to ensure that all the  underdeveloped countries of Asla, Africa, the Arab  world and Latin America would benefit by the  increase.
12.11 For any discrimination in dealing with those  who are poor is doubly unfair, The African  countries can rely on the friendship of the Govern-  ment of Brazil. They have, alas, been suffering  too long from discrimination not to know that they  themselves should not resort to it, even for their  own benefit, and that they have far more to gain by  identifying themselves body and soul, at all times,  with the peoples of Asia and Latin America who  share their anxieties and face the same difficulties,  than by trying to obtain some 600,000 dollars for  themselves alone.
12.12 We have before us approximately 160 new  draft resolutions submitted by about 40 countries.  Many of them are of very great interest and have  been put forward by several States belonging to the  underdeveloped regions. To mention some of the  authors of these proposals, the Philippines has  MEETINGS
126  submitted 17 draft resolutions, ‘Viet-Nam 14, India
11 and Japan 8 - not to speak of France, which has  submitted 17, If we adopt the United States proposal,  how can the needs expressed in all these draft  resolutions be met, if the only increase provided  for, apart from the Director-General's proposal,  is earmarked in advance for a single region of the  world? We shall find ourselves in the Programme  Commission in the paradoxical situation of not  having a cent available for these 160 or more new  draft resolutions submitted by 40 Member States.
12,13 The delegate of the United States has told  us that it will be for the General Conference, once  the budget cciling has been decided, to distribute  the sums available as it pleases ~ that is, some  $668, 000, according to his own proposal, Person-  ally, I ask for nothing better than to have the highest  budget ceiling possible. I can even assure you that  the Brazilian Government would be ready to go  beyond the figures now before you. Why? Because  something strange is happening in our Organization,  For about ten years, most of us have been contribu-  ting less and Jess to Unesco. I will quote only one  case, 80 ad not to give the impression that I am  being indiscreet, namely the case of my own country.  In 1960, we contributed some $172, 000 to Unesco  while, for the last programme (1959-1960), we paid  only $128,000, i.e, about $60,000 less. Why is  this? What possible excuse can we have, after ten  years of benefiting greatly, both morally and  materially, by the services of this Orgenization,  for reducing our contributions steadily? We have  none at all,
12.14 Mr, President, if the Director-General and  you yourself accept the proposal of the honourable  delegate of the Ifnited States of America, leaving  the Conference entirely free to use it as it pleases  the small additional sums which will be added to  your proposed budget, shall be happy to support it.  But should this suggestion be legally unacceptable,  I shall be compelled to maintain the proposal sub-  mitted to you by the Government of Brazil because,  in my view, it leaves a margin of some $500,000  which the Programme Commission and the Admini-  strative Commission can really use to meet the  needs of Unesco's programme, for Africa, of  course - for Africa primarily, I quite agree - but  also for all the underdeveloped countries, for that  "third world" which is united in need and in  friendship.
13. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon H.E. Mr. Mac-Lean y Estenos,  Head of the delegation of Peru.
14.1 Mr. MAC-LEAN Y ESTENOS (Peru)  (Translation from the Spanish);  Mr. President, fellow delegates, the budget, as  you already know, but I now feel it necessary to  repeat it, 1s made up of the contributions of Member  States, in other words, of the taxes paid by their  citizens.
14.2 We can be generous with our own money, but  we have no right to be generous with that of others.  Therefore, as representatives of these Member  States and in defence of the interests of our taxpayers,  we can never be too zealous in repeaiing over and over   PLENARY  again, in the commissions and at the plenary  meetings, our appeal for something which can be  summed up in twe words, nzmely budgetary  austerity.
14.3 The proposed budget submitted by the  Director-General is by no means austere; it is a  project which, from beginning to end, embodies a  whole series of progressive increases, We arrive  MEETINGS  then at the total, which is, as you know, $30,920,128 -  an increase of 19%, or over 5 million dollars more  than the previous budget. This affects the contri-  butions of Member States, which have to pay an  increase of $3, 500,000, or 14% of the total. And  thls in tarn implies fresh efforts and a further  sacrifice for the man in the street, the humble  individual who, in the last resort, makes it possible  to finance Unesco's budget.
14,4 Peru is against any unnecessary increases  and is therefore opposed to this spendthrift policy  which is doing s0 much harm to the prestige of our  Organization. But Îts opposition cannot be called  blind or systematic, for it ie lending its support to  other increases which do not appear in the Director-  General's proposals and are quite rightly being  demanded by other delegations. ,
14.5 For this reason, Peru is supporting the  proposal of the delegation of the United States of  America for an appropriation of a million dollars  to meet the educational needs of the African peoples,  a proposal which was so brilliantly and convincingly  put forward by the Head of the United States  delegation.
14.6 It also supports the proposal submitted by  the delegation of Brazil, which does not exclude  the former, since the two can be reconciled, as  the Head of the Brazilian delegation so eloquently  pointed out.
14.7 My country also supports the proposal of the  delegation of Mexico for the establishment of a  Centre of International Studies, a project requiring  a minimum appropriation of $28,000, but for one  biennial period only.
14.8 Furthermore, it supports the proposal of  Argentina to finance the Latin American Regional  Centre for Mathematics, and will support both  verbally and In voting all proposals that may be  submitted by other delegations, provided, of course,  that it agrees with the aims behind them and that  they are within the budget ceiling approved by the  General Conference.
14.9 Spending should not be confused with  squandering. Peru strongly approves of spending  where it is justified, but it cannot accept thriftless-  ness, which ought to be eradicated, unhesitatingly  and relentlessly.
14,10 The Executive Board, at its 56th and 57th  sessions, giving proof of its wisdom in the matter  of policy, recognized the urgency of keeping  administrative costs as low as possible, Some of  its members at that time disagreed with the plan  submitted by the Director-General and pointed out  that not a few of the activities proposed were  ineffective or of little use and should therefore be  elther suppressed or cut. These wise and prudent  suggestions unfortunately went unheeded, with the  result that, on the contrary, the most highly  inflated budget that has ever been proposed in the
127  vi  fifteen years of the Organization's existence is now  before you, a budget taking no account of the burden  which these unjustified increases - as was repeatedly  emphasized ai the above-mentioned meetings of the  Executive Board - place upon Member States which  also have to meet urgent and vital needs at home.
14.11 In his speech a few moments ago, the  Director-General made two observations which I  should like to take up, He referred - and here I  quote - to the " extremely swift tide of events and  the complexity of the efforts required". Almost  the same words have been repeated by members of  the Secretariat in the different commissions: "the  extreme rapidity with which events are moving and  the complexity of the resulting problems," Fellow  delegates, there is no need to fear the swifi tide of  events and although the problems arising may be of  the utmost difficulty, this has little importance it  one is determined to face up to the situation. Such  situations terrify only the cowardly and the incom-  petent. But, using this "extremely swift tide of  events and the complexity of the resulting problems"  as a pretext, expenditure and waste are being  proposed. We must therefore draw a distinction  between the two,
14.12 It is perfectly obvious that the complexity of  the problems justifies spending, but the complexity  of the problems and the extremely swift tide of  events can never justify, as the officials of the  Secretariat would have it do, this inexcusable policy  of thriftlessness.
14.13 In the second place, the Director-General  referred to the question of working " space". He  said that space was of vital necessity and he was  right: space is a vital necessity for the Secretariat.  It is correct that the members of the Secretariat  should have ample space in order that their efforts  may be productive and not sterile. Consequently,  we have the project for the construction of a fourth  building, the cost of which the Director-General did  not mention, This cost is $4,500,000.
14.14 But when he referred to space, the Director-  General gave a one-sided picture. He forgot to tell  the General Conference what we have several times  communicated to him in writing. Among the aspects  of this problem of space, there 1s one which fs not  only depressing for Member States, but is also  preposterous and inadmissible. I am referring to  the possibility of the diplomatic missions being  ejected from their present offices, so that these  can be occupied by members of the Secretariat.  The diplomatic missions also need premises, I will  not say comfortable - for we, too, can endure dis-  comfort - but at least decent.
14.15 The time has come to place the sufferings  of Unesco in their proper perspective, The time  has come to say that Unesco is made up of its  Member States and, without them, would not exist.  Consequently, the whole of Unesco is based upon  the Member States, here represented by their  diplomatic missions, and the Secretariat is but an  adjunct, existing to serve them. But the position  now is that the masters of the house, the Member  States, the diplomatic missions, are to be ejected  from these premises as undesirable tenants and  are to be housed in goodness knows what kind of  buildings in the neighbourhood. I remember with   VI  shame, as those delegates who were members of  the diplomatic missions before the change of  premises will certainly remember too, I repeat -  with shame - those filthy, unpresentable and drab  premises in which we were housed in the Rue La  Pérouse.
14,16 I must point out that this is not merely my  personal opinion. I have discussed it with many  heads of delegations, all of whom fully share my  disapproval and refuse to accept the idea, ! hope,  therefore, that the Director-General will think the  matter over and exclude this possibility, for wken-  ever it is brought up here - if it should be brought  up - I shall return to this rostrum to condemn it  with the utmost vigour and to affirm that this absurd  project deserves to be rejected by the assembly,  aa | am confident that it will be.
14,17 To justify this spendthrift policy, reference  has constantly been made to the "organic growth"  of Unesco. Fellow delegates, if Unesco is under-  going a period of organic growth, this is, for  individuals as well as for institutione, a sign of  health, But we must not confuse organic growth  with hypertrophy, because this would be equivalent  to confusing health with illness and Unesco, I must  say, is not in good health. On the contrary, it is  sick with Lalation, with bureaucratic hypertrophy.  To root out this evil is what all men of good faith  want and expect from us. We shall not waver in  this, fellow delegates, because it is our duty and  Also our responsibility.
15. The PRESIDENT:
1 now call upon the Head of the United Kingdom  delegation, Sir David Eccles.
16.1 Sir David ECCLES (United Kingdom):  Mr. President, delegates, 1 have not the power  of eloquence that the distinguished delegate of Peru  has - I congratulate him on the vigour with which  he supported his proposition. He sald he was  ashamed to remember that diplomats and ministers  used to have bad accommodation, I am ashamed  to remember how many children there are with no  schools at all, and it is for that reason that, after  much thought, because the United Kingdom has not  in the past been an expansionist country in relation  to this budget, we give our full support to the  proposal of the United States,
16.2 We have to face here, two contradictory  facts: the first is that Unesco's resourccs are  terribly small, infinitely small compared to the  needs of the children and the young people for  education, science and culture, But we are all  spending money on these great services through  our own national budgets, and many, many times  more millions than Ît is proposed to apend here.  And a good many of us are also spending large  sums of money through our own budge!s on education,  science and culture overseas. The Conference  might be interested to know that the United Kingdom  Government last year spent 30 million dollars on  education overseas, nothing to do with the children  or the young people in the United Kingdom. Our  budget for international education for one year is  the same as Unesco's entire budget for two years.  And that {8 where the little taxpayer - to whom the
128  PLENARY MEETINGS  distinguished delegate of Peru referred - comes in.  Every little taxpayer wants more education for his  children and his grandchildren, but he does want the  money well spent. It is not that he grudges money on  education - 1 think no taxpayers grudge money for edu-  cation nowadays anywhere in the world - but he is at  least entitled to ask whether, with the limited  resources that they have, this Organization or some  other organization will be a more efficient channel  through which to spend the money he is prepared to  put up.
16.3 Therefore I come to the second point that has  been in the minde of the United Kingdom delegation.  It is not really money which {s the limit to what we  can do; the real limit is the availability of experts.  One can find the money by one means or another,  but one can so seldom find the teachers to go from  one country to another, the trained administrators,  those who have the real knowledge which you can put  at the service of some other country. And there-  fore, when one supports an increase in the budget  of Unesco, it i5 in the faith that we shall be able to  secure the services of the experts in these fields,  and especially in tha administration here at  headquarters.
16.4 The distinguished delegate of Brazil and I  find it very pleasant to be on the same side, fn some  respects, as the classical champions of expansion.  I find that a very pleasant, somewhat novel rôle for  the United Kingdom. The distinguished delegate of  Brazil raised, I thought, a point with which we  would all have some sympathy, namely, that the  United States proposal concentrated a part of our  expansion in one direction, in Africa, I think there  ie an answer to that, The first is that, as far as 1  have been able to read the history of the work of  this Organization, Africa has not had a fair share.  Up till now Africa has been somewhat neglected.  On the other hand, I belleve there has been a very  important Major Project in Latin America and I  should think that it was in the mind of the United  States delegate that it was right to make a strong  indication that for the moment we thought the  emphasis ought to be shifted to Africa. Because,  if we were to try to divide this extra money equally  amongst all the projects which have been mentioned,  we should do nothing well enough to make any  impression on world opinion at all, I strongly  believe that one of the reasons, if I may be allowed  to say this, that the world in general does not know *  what Unesco is doing is precisely because we  spread our money so thinly over so many projects.  You cannot make propaganda, you cannot make any  impression if you are not flying at least two or three  big flags. Therefore, I rally to the United States  proposal, although I have much sympathy for what  the delegate of Brazil sald, because I want Unesco  to do something in a way that will really make an  impression and I feel that, if we recruit the best  experts, we could make of this extra money a real  impression in a field in Africa where the need is so  great, Therefore I support this increase in the  budget and I greatly hope that the Conference will  not try to reduce it. I think it would give a very  bad impression outside, where people know how  great is the need for more schools, if we were to  try to chop little pieces off this budget. I think it   PLENARY  would be a pity if we were to spend a great deal of our  time on internal matters which could be settled by  the Secretariat in the appropriate commission,  instead of passing this budget quickly today and then  getting on with the job which everyone is expecting  us to do.
16.5 Therefore, Mr. President, after careful con-  sideration, the proposal of the United States has the  fullest support from the United Kingdom.
17. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, since our time is short I  propose, provided there are no objections, to call only  upon the Head of the delegation of Rumania and on &  member of the delegation of France and then to  adjourn the meeting, I call upon the Head of the  Rumanian delegation, H.E. Mr. Ralea.
18.1 Mr. RALEA (Rumania) (Translation from the  French):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the budget  of an organization is not merely a series of abstract  figures. It is something more than that, a general  conception, a table and scale of values, which enables  the importance attached to some activities and the  little importance attached to others to be gauged.
18.2 Starting from this point of view, it must be  acknowledged that, in the past, Unesco has succeeded,  to a large extent, In attaining some of its principal  aims in the spheres of culture, education and aclence.  Personally, we should have preferred the programme  and budget to be discussed here in close conjunction  with one another, in order to be able to decide on the  utility and timeliness of some of the measures  proposed.
18.3 The Proposed Programme and Budget for
1961-1962 contains a certain number of omissions to  which attention should be drawn immediately. Firstly,  the omission = I might even say the refusal to Include -  any resolutions dealing with the collection of outstand-  ing contributions of Member States should be under-  lined. Although a great deal has already been said  here on this subject, I must raise again the question  of the reduction of the contribution payable by the  China of Taiwan and amounting to some millions of  dollars, and the delay granted for the payment of  these sums. From a logical standpoint, it ie difficult  to justify and explain such an absurd - I would even  say indecent - decision. We are dealing with a dele-  gation, whose legitimate right to ait here has been  contested by a third of the other delegationa. And,  to add insult to injury, it is allowed to sit here  without paying any contribution, It is the only dele-  gation sitting here among us "free of charge". We  are even going so far as to force delegations which  voted against China to pay for it - in other words,  the taxpayers of other countries are to pay for the  China of Chiang Kai-shek. One wonders what  exceptional merit it possesses to be granted such a  privilege. This is both absurd and inadmissible,  and this simple gesture considerably lowers the  moral standing and prestige of our Organization.
18.4 Secondly, the programme and budget submitted  to us contains no critical analysis of the allocation of  funds for major activities and includes projects which  are by no means of vital importance. Unduly large  sums are set aside for minor and even pointless
129  MEETINGS VI  objectives: too many experts, an administrative  machinery that is too cumbersome, the conatruction  of a new huilding which has been criticized by many  delegations,
18.6 We are convinced that the experience gained by  the Secretariat and the Executive Board, on the one  hand, and the progress made by the National Com-  missions, on the other, should make it possible to  improve the functioning of Unesco without its being  necessary to increase the budget substantially and  regularly, Some of the proposals to increase the
1961-1962 budget take absolutely no account of the  way in which Unesco's funds were spent during the  previous budgetary periods, Moreover, I would point  out that activities relating to peace and intellectual  disarmament are considerably reduced in this pro-  gramme and budget; hardly any funds are allowed for  these objectives, despite the fact that the Executive  Board adopted a resolution on this subject.
18.6 With regard to the different chapters of the  budget, the programme in the chapter on education is  not allocated sufficient funds for a purpose which we  consider to be of vital importance, namely the total  eradication of illiteracy in a world where 30 to 40%  of human beings are not yet able to read or write.  Yet our own experience has shown us that it is possible  to reduce the number of illiterates by 30% in a country  where now only 2% of the population is illiterate.
18.7 In any event, more than a million dollara should  be get aslde for Africa. Practically nothing can be  done with a million dollars. It is the duty of those  nations which, as colonial powers, drew on the  resources of these countries that are now independent,  to contribute a far larger sum, a sum representing at  least 1% of the profits they derived from them. The  increased funds for education should be used first for  primary schooling, and only afterwards for secondary  education. At present, secondary education is some-  times a luxury. Our first thought should be to teach  people to read and write and make it possible for  countries to reduce illiteracy, or even abolish it  completely,
18.8 With regard to the natural sciences, some of  the projects proposed are excellent and justify the  sums proposed for their implementation. More  particularly, 1 believe that the Soviet proposal for a  world conference on semi-conductors deserves  support and that, at the same time, pamphlets should  be published to popularize the recent achievements of  science. ‘
18.9 We believe that everything done under the  heading of the social sciences until now has been too  academic and theoretical, We .aust be more practical.  It is not only a question of financing or subsidizing a  particular institute for sociology in Cologne or else-  where. We are concerned to do everything possible  to intensify and support propaganda for peace and  peaceful coexistence, to combat racialism and to use  the somewhat abstract findings of certain committees  and surveys as a basis for really practical action.
18,10 We still have some remarks to make on the  cultural aspect, which we shall go into when the pro-  gramme is discussed. In the meantime, I repeat  that we should try to increase our prestige and moral  and financial standing by recognizing some of the  useful activities that Unesco has carried out success-  fully and, at the same time; by forbidding certain   VIII PLENARY  delegations, such as that of Chiang Kai-shek, to sit here  without even diacharging their financial obligations,
19, The PRESIDENT:
1callupon Mr. Julien Cain, of the delegation of France.
20.1 Mr, CAIN (FranceXTranstation from the French):  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, the French  delegation has studied with particular aitenilon the  table annexed to the report submitted to us,
20.2 It understands the reasons that led the  Secretariat to consider and then to take emergency  measures. Ithasapproved them from the verybegin-  ning, It is therefore obliged to accept their budget-  ary implications, which it does willingly, It will  therefore vote in favour of the proposals submitted,
20.3 We shall support the United States proposal  to make a special effort for the benefit of the  countries of Africa all the more readily in that such  a programme will reinforce the activities which we  are already carrying out in several of the countries  that have recently become independent; thus, in  future, we shall continue our activities tenaciously,  side by side with those which Unesco itself intends  to undertake with the new means at its disposal.
20.4 I should like to confirm here the information  given us by the delegate of the United Kingdom. Our  respective countries are certainly earmarking  considerable sums in their budgets for the promotion  of education In the countries of Africa. France is,  today, setting aside 2% of Îts national revenue to extend  and improve the training both of key personnel and of  teachersinthe countries overseas, Itismydutyto  make this remark after the statement of Sir David Eccles.
20,5 The representative of the United States  pointed out a few minutes ago that it was our duty  to make good use of the new means which will be  available to Unesco in the near future, and that  planning seemed to him to be necessary for that  purpose: I can only agree with him fully,
20.6 At this moment, the Progrrmme Commission  is examining a number of proposais to this effect.  I should like to tell the General Conference that one  of these proposals was, only very recently, being  carefully prepared by that outstanding man and  educator of exceptional calibre, Gaston Berger, who  was so cruelly snatched from our midst a few days  ago and who is such a loss to us in our work,
20,7 His idea was that we should carry out large-  scale activities in a methodical manner and backed  by the most up-to-date technical means, Whatever  happens, once we have reached our decisions, the  Secretariat will have to make a choice, and that  choice may well be difficult and often painful. Above  all, we must avoid dispersing our efforts and sacri-  ficing large-scale action for the sake of a “crop of  small, even minute projects. This must obviously  not be allowed to happen. Once again, | can only  support what some of the previous speakers have  sald in this respect. . )
20.8 Our projects can be effective only if they are  first studied and then carried out by the Secretariat,  which must possess accurate information, constantly  brought up to date, and must keep in touch the whole  time with the United Nations and the Specialized  Agencies, Here again, 1 would emphasize the need  to avoid any kind of dispersal of efforts,particularly
130  MEETINGS  at the administrative level, The headquarters  must be equipped to send its representatives on  mission everywhere, whenever necessary and to  every kind of country. We must therefore avoid  using these new funds, undreamed of even a few  weeks ago, for the proliferation of permanent  administrative posts, or the creation of peripheral  posts and satellite centres.
20.9 These are the few remarks it was my duty to  make and In the light of which the French delegation  will vote for the proposal contained in 11 C/DR/50.
21. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the Secretary of the General Conference  to make several announcements,
22.1 Mr, MONTAGNIER (Secretary) (Translation  from the French};  The President of the General Conference has  requested me to communicate the following informa-  tion to the Conference regarding the work done by  the General Committee at its meeting this morning.  The Chairman of the Programme Commission  informed the Committee that his Commission, on
18 November, had decided to request the Committee  to consider the receivability of twenty draft resolu-  tions involving the undertaking of new activities or a  substantial increase in budgetary expenditure. By
18 votes, with 1 abstention, the General Committee  decided to refer these draft resolutions back to the  Programme Commission, requesting that the Bureau  of the Commission study them, in conjunction with  the delegations submitting them and the Secretariat,  fn order to assess their scope and their budgetary  implications. Afterwards, the Commission will  have to decide whether or not these draft resolutions  are receivable.
22.2 Secondly, in accordance with the provisions  of Rules 14 and 38 of the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference, the General Committee  examined Cuba's request for the inclusion of a new  item on the agenda (documents 11 C/39 and 11 C/39  Addendum), After hearing the reasons given by the  delegate of Cuba, and after an exchange of views,  the General Committee decided: (1) by 13 votes to
3, with 3 abstentions, to close the debate on this  request; (2) to recommend to the General Confer-  ence that it should not include on its agenda the  item proposed by Cuba in documents 11 C/39 and
11 C/39 Addendum, This decision was taken by 9  votes to 3, with 9 abstentions. Finally, the General  Committee agreed that this decision should be com-  municated to the General Conference, if possible  during the afternoon's plenary meeting, when the  Conference would have taken a decision on the  second part of the Administrative Commission's  report and on the provisional budget ceiling. In  accordance with Rule 14,2 of the Rules of Procedure,  and having been informed of the General Committee's  recommendation, the General Conference will have  to decide on thts point by a two-thirds majority.
23. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting will now  adjourn until 3, 30 this afternoon.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.