23 November 1960, at 3.45 p.m,  President: Mr, R,H, THAYER (United States of America)  CUNTENTS  General discussion of the Reports  (continued)  GENERAL DISCUSSION OF THE REPORTS OF  THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL (continyed)
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I call the meeting to order,
1.2 The first apeaker this afternoon is the Vice-  Minister of Culture end Head of the delegation of  Hungary, H.E, Mr, Ilku.
2,1 Mr. ILKU (Hungarian People's Republic)  (Translation from the Russian);  Mr, President, Mr. Director-General and dele-  gates, on behalf of the official delegation of the  Hungarian People's Republic I should like to convey  our greetings to everyone taking part in the General  Conference,
2,2 The Hungarian Government sets very great  stock on its ties with Unesco, the international organiza-  tion entrusted with the task of fostering education,  culture and science. We consider that in many re-  spects these ties are useful and fruitful, although we  should like to point out that there are various short-  comings in Unesco's work, ….
2.3 We have endeavoured from that angle to play a  constructive part in the various fields of Unesco  activity. In September of this year, with Unesco's  agsistance, the Hungarian National Commission  successfully organized a conference of twenty  European countries on the international exchange of  publications. In recent years our country has acted  as host to numerous international conferences devoted  to science, technology and culture, The Hungarian  National Commission welcomed the decision taken by  Unesco's Executive Board on general and complete  disarmament and we also welcome and support  Unesco's initiative and successful educational work  in connexion with the eradication of illiteracy and  the fight against racial discrimination. ;
2,4 In cultural life, the Hungarian People's Republic  has many successes to record during the period  covered by the Director-General's reports, One of  the most important aspects of our development is  educational reform, baced on a large body of interna-  tional expérience, I think we can claim, .without  boasting, that our educational reform deserves world-  wide attention. Nor was it undertaken, incidentally,  on account of any backwardness in the Hungarian
241  of the Director-General
241  educational system; in the opinion of foreign experts,  our educational achievemems -.as compared with  the pre-war period - are considerable, - Whereas,  before the liberation of our country, part of the  population received no education whatever and the  large majority of pupila atténded school for only six  years, at the present time 82% of the pupils com-  plete the course at the eight-year school and go on  to further education. . Thanks to gocialist construc-  tion and educational reform, -we shall shortly reach  the stage where all boys and girls without exception  will receive school-leaving certificates after twelve  years of study. Another alm of educational reform  is to introduce our young pecs 2% 7to the treasure-  house of national and wor)‘: U ‘lure, and to the  history of the developme‘t of  ankind, Educational  reform will help to tome ri our young people with  the technical progress which is taking place through-  out the world and which is of incalculable significance  for the well-being of all mankind,
2,5 Hungary has extended its international cultural  relations in recent years, More foreign classics  and coutemporary authors have been published, and  more new plays have been performed, There are’  many examples to show that Hungarian authors,  artists and scientists in diffe vent fields -.all of  whom without exception play an active part in  Hungarian cultural life - are attempting to link their  own cultural activities with the culture of other  countries. Our aim is that the Hungarian people  should become familiar not only with European cul-  ture, but also with that of other countries, and  particularly with the artistic and literary master-  pleces of the African and Asian peoples who have  recently gained their independence. “At the same  time, we are doing our best to satisfy international  - interest in Hungarian culture, We are therefore  most gratified that Unesco will shortly be publishing  an anthology of Hungarian short stories,
2.6 With your permission, Mr, President, I shall  now turn to questions relating to Unesco's general  policy, . Our view is that it should not be divorced  from the events of international life, from those  fundamental problems which, by their very nature,  affect the development of culture and science. It is  through culture, science and education that Unesco  must help to solve these problems. They are, of   Xv  course, political problems, ‘and some people consider  that the General Conference should not concern itself  with them, But how can it be rationally and responsibly  argued that these problems are not intimately connec-  ted with the struggle against illiteracy and with the  development of science and culture?
2.7 ‘The most important question facing mankind  at present 1s to ensure peaceful coexistence, the  prevention of war, disarmament, the achievement  and safeguarding 07 national independence and the  Hberation of colonial territories. Hence, Unesco,  like all the other international organizations, 1s in  duty bound to devote great attention to these basic  {ssues, and is not entitled to remain neutral in solv-  ing them, The peoples of the world cannot accept  neutrality in solving the basic problems of mankind,  On this point we fully agree with the views of  Professor Carneiro.
2,8 Unesco will become a truly universal organiza.  tion only when it is universal not merely in its  membership and in the representation of geographical  areas but also in all its activities; and in particular  when it includes in its agenda those topics which are  of daily concern to all peoples. It is for these  reasons that the Llungurian delegation regrets that  this session of the General Conference will not be  discussing so universal s question as Unesco's  contribution towards solving the disarmament prob-  lem, In our view, the decision on this subject,  although taken by a majority vote, does not reflect  the opinion of the majority of mankind.
2.8 To help Unesco achieve universality, the  Hungarian delegation supports the proposal that the  present session of the General Conference should  make an appeal to all Member States on the subject  of peaceful coexistence, and should pledge itself to  the liberation of all peoples still living under the  colonial yoke,
2.10 * From this rostrum the Hungarian delegation  whole-heartedly welcomes the representatives of the  newly independent countries. At the same time, we  consider that Unesco's duty towards these States  goes far beyond a general welcome, Its fundamental  task is to provide immediate and effective assistance,  The main prorequisite for the cultural development  of former colonial countries is the elimination of  their economic backwardness, Unesco should there.  fore co-ordinate all its activities with international  and bilateral action to provide these countries with  economic agsistance. On behalf of the Hungarian  people, who suffered foreign oppression for many  centuries, I should like to wish our brothers from  Africa and Asia every success in creating the condi-  tions for their future development in the shortest  possible time,
2,11 Permit me to dwell briefly on certain state-  ments by the distinguished representative of the United  States of America, The Hungarian delegation associ-  ates itself with the United States representative's  proposal that Unesco should Le a forum for free  discussion, a forum where every representative  should have équal rights without any discrimination,  It is our opinion, however, that in order to achieve  freedom of discussion we should all accept certain  logical and ethical standards, and keep to them, No  logical or ethical system admits of contradiction  between word and deed. We do not think that anyone
242  PLENARY MEETINGS  could agree with the idea that an organisation such  as Unesco, which deala with ideological questions,  should refuse, in the interests of co-operation, to  undertake a serious examination of social systems  and their theoretical differences, It is easy to see’  the contradiction between professions of unity and  co-opt»ation and the fact that the very delegation  which enunciated those principles sponsored two  discriminatory decisions which were adopted by the  General Conference, namely, the question of the  representation of the People's Republic of China and  the credentials of the Hungarian delegation,
2.12 Mr, President, permit me also to state  that we strongly protest against, and most emphati-  cally will not allow in the future, any interfsrence  in the internal affairs of our country from whatever  direction it comes.
2,13 Mr, President, the Hungarian Government  and the Hungarian National Commission feel sure  that Unesco will be able in the future to give a con-  crete answer to the fundamental problems of man-  kind, and will help solve these problems. History  expects this from our Organization, which the  peoples of the world have confidently vested with  responsibility for the enrichment and development  of culture, science and human consciousness. The  Hungarian delegation will continue to participate in  the work of the General Conference and in all future  Unesco activities in the spirit of peaceful coexis-  tence, and wishes the Executive Board and the  Secretariat every success in its work.  The PRESIDENT!  I now call upon the Chairman of the Finnish  National Commission for Unesco and Vice-Chairman  of the delegation of Finland, Mr. Oittinen.
4.1 Mr, OITTINEN (Finland):  Mr, President, the Finnish delegation has askéd  to speak at this meeting first of all in order to ex-  press its pleasure and satisfaction at the ‘positive  development which is now perceptible in Unesco's  activities. It is most significant for the work of  this Organization that the new countries of Africa  have come to particirate in Unesco's cultural work  as fully authorized members, - The basis of our  activity has thus been extended considerably, And  at the same time as I greet the new members of the  Organization on behalf of the Finnish delegation, I  congratulate these countries because the dignified,  realistic and purposeful approach of their repre-  sentatives in this Conference has firmly established  their position among Unesco's Member States,
4,2 We Finns understand very well both the  practical and the psychological importance of poli-  tical independence, This struggle of the Finnish  people to create and maintain national institutions  and a culture based on the Finnish language, through-  out centuries of foreign dominance, haa taught us  the lesson that only in a free country can a free  people livé,- and only à free people is able to advance  its economie progress effectively and créate the  conditions for the further development of its culture.  From the historical point of view, the worst is not  always what 1s done to a nation which is deprived of  liberty, but rather what is left undone, for example,  in the development of national culture.   PLENARY
4,3 We Finns know from experience, however, that  the difficulties by no means disappear with the acquisi-  tion of political indeperidence. On the contrary,  material and intellectual resources will be put to a  still more severe test when the task ic to create, al-  most from the beginning, one's own national way of  life. Even though this task ia inspiring and the ideal  therein gives strength, the danger exists that the new  States will meet almost unsurmountable difficulties,  Therefore, it ia well that international organizations  exist which are ready to help,
4.4 In creating a new State the paramount need is  for intellectual resources, Thus, assistance in  educating specialists in all fields of modern life is at  least as valuable as direct economic and material  support, although this also can bé used to acquire  intellectual resources within certain limits,
4,5 The satisfaction of the irgent needs of the new  Member States imposes new dutiea’on Unesco, It is  alao clear that the incorporation of these new obliga-  tions in Unesco's programme means that the financial  burden on Member States will increase, Although my  country does not belong to the wealthiest nations, in  Finland the immediate necessity of rendering interna-  tional co-operation more effective in the field of ‘  education, cultural activities and scientific research  is well understood. Only thus it is possible to create  conditions for continuous economic and intellectual  development and for effective international co-opera-  tion which can help to solve the problems affecting  the very existence of mankind.
4.6 The needs of the now African Member States  have for their part expanded the proportion of  Unesco's programme devoted to education. The  tendency to strengthen the work ôf Unesco in the field  of education in general which fs perceptible in the  proposed programme and budget for the next two  years is noted with satisfaction by the Finnish  delegation. It is, without réservation, of the opinion  that Unesco's duty in the first place is to help create  general educational systems by participating in the  work of planning and by helping to found central  institutions, such as teacher-training schools,  publishing firms and information centres.
4.7 In addition to these activities of expansion, the  importance of the qualitative development of educa-  tion must be realized, - We must not try to transfer  old and perhaps unsuitable working methods to the  new States and new conditions. We should ensure  that only the bést is recommended, which corres-  ponds to the results of modern pedagogical experi-  ence and research. Unesco should therefore attach  further importance to the continuous improvement of  school systems and the quality of school life in so-  called developed countries,
4.8 The Finnish delegation has noted with special  satisfaction that the activities in the Froposed  Programme 4nd Budget for 1961-1862 are presented  in more concrete form than previously, Along with  the pious wishes, which still are rather numerous,  there are more and more precisely defined plans.  This trend is in the right direction.
4,9 The international campaign to save the monu-  nents of Nubia is to my mind an excellent example  of how a concrete aim is able to inspire international  co-operation and public interest, Although the Nordic  countries are far from the Nile valley, their
243  MEETINGS Xv  preparations to participate in the Nubis project are  already far advanced, It has been decided that the  Nordic countries - Denmark, Norway, Sweden and  Finland - will send a joint expedition to Nubia. The  Finnish Government has already granted an alloca-  tion for this purpose and has also, in principle,  decided on continuous financing of the expedition  during five years.
4.10 Turning to the analysis of the projects of  Unesco, I should like to stress the importance of in-  creased planning and guidance in the execution of  the programme, ‘ The time of vague idealism should,  indeed, be long past, As an example of this need,
1 should like to refer to the Associated School Pro-  jects for intérnational understanding, In many  cases this experiment has given good results and  the interest of the young has been aroused in the  life and ways of distant and dissimilar countries,  and above all in international co-operation. This  experiment, however, demands great capacity and  knowledge on the part of the teacher, The éxpansion  of this work in scope and quality is possible only if  better and more detailed information and guidance  are available from Unesco. Audio-visual materials  are also needed in greater measure, because they  are necessary to keep alive the interest of both  teachers and pupile in these extra-curricular topics.  In this connexion, it would be useful to deliberate  how it will be possible in the future to reserve sui-  ficient time In the curricula for leesons in education  for international understanding. The time available  for this instruction is in general rather limited and  it should therefore be used in the best and most  effective way. ;
4.11 Ihave raised this point as an example of the  ever-increasing neëd of making Unesco's programmes  correspond to the realities, Indeed, I consider that  only through concrete action can our Organization  achieve ultimate success, We must not limit our-  selves to expressing hopes ‘and making claims. More  than that, we need working plans. Detailed informa-  tion, instruction and guidance are the things that  are expected from us. I readily admit that ideals  are important and valuable, Indeed, they are, as  expressed in our Constitution, the very basis of our  work, But, I repeat, for the achievement of real  results useful means and practical ways are essential.  And, after all, it may be better to concentrate on a  few topics of crucial importance than to continue to  disperse our resources in a multitude of half-  successful projects.
5. The PRESIDENT:  I call upoti the Deputy Minister for Foreign  Affairs and Head of the delegation of the Ukrainian  Soviet Socialist Republic, H.E, Mr, Slipchenko.
6.1 Mr, SLIPÈHENKO (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic) {Translation from the Russian);  Mr. President and fellow delegates, in duly  evaluating the positive work of Unésco, we must  nevertheless focus attention on the shortcomings in  its activities. Friendly and objective criticism is  one of the main ways, we consider, of assisting the  Secretariat.
6.2 Gentlemen, to be able to study the problems  of education, science and culture in their concrete   xv PLENARY NEKTINGS  aspects and to find really effective methods of solying  them rapidly and correctly, there muat first be an  objective understanding of the varied soolal and poli-  tical conditions obtaining in the world. It is essential  to consider the rapid changes taking place in it and to  strive in practice, from an objective standpoint io  study the experiance of countries with different social  and economic systems so that all ite most valuable  and outstanding lessons may be drawn, This will  help all Member States, particularly the young, inde.  pendent countries - whom we heartily welcome to our  midst - to solve the problems facing them in a con-  structive way.
6.3 We Soviet people intimately understand the  problems and aspirations of the young countries which  have freed themselves from age-long oppression and  are concentrating all their efforts on overcoming  poverty and backwardness, eliminating forever the  heavy burden left by colonialism and endeavouring to  stand firmly on their own feet in all respects, We  realize full well that, for these reasons alone, the  new sovereign States are vitally interested in pre-  serving peace and developing peaceful co-operation  between all countries, and we are therefore confident  that these new recruits to Unesco will work together to  make our Organization an ever more effective instru-  ment for peace and an active organizer of international  efforts to develop science, culture and education  throughout the world.
6.4 The Ukrainian SSR, like the other socialist  countries, is ready to play a most active part in this  noble cause. It is regrettable that the Secretariat  has so far made such Utile use of the experience and  disinterested services of the socialist countries, that  it makes so slight an effort to study and popularize  the highly rational and well-tried methods of organiz-  ing education in these countries, and their basic  approach in developing national culture, and does less  than it should to help place the achievements of world  science at the disposal of the peoples of all Member  States, The Ukrainian SSK for instance - like the  other socialist countries - has accumulated much  experience in the organization and development of  education, science and culture, and with Unesco's  help would willingly share this knowledge with other  States, in turn adopting the most useful elements of  the experience acquired by them, The Secretariat  could take an active part in facilitating this exchange  of cultural and scientific values,
6.5 Listening to the statements of certain delegates  from countries which have just embarked on the high-  way to independent development, I was reminded of  the glorious and instructive history of my ‘own  country, The problems at presen troubling you,  dear friends, as regards lack of schools, widespread  illiteracy, the absence of teaching in your native  language and go on, are happily a thing of the distant  past in the Ukraire. The practical fulfilment of  Lenin's national policy has brought to the Ukrainian  people, -as to the. other peoples of former Tsari st  Russia, freedom and Statehood, complete equality of  rights and the full flowering of their physical and  spiritual powers.
6.6 By the heroic efforts of which only a free  people is capable, the workers, peasants end intellec-  tuals of the Ukraine, in the space of a single genera-  tion, have constructed within the fraternal family of  \ 244  socialist nations a fine and powerful Republic, which  ia completely literate and has a high level of culture,  science and technology, Today, the Ukrainian  economy, copatituting the fundamental basis for the  development of education and sclence, 18 in advance  of that of such countries as Canada, while the  Ukraine's production of steel, pig iron, iron ore  and many other industrial and agricultural products  per head of population exceeds that of the United  States of America, We sincerely look forward one  day to hearing similar "propaganda figures" from  the mouths of delegates of the still underdeveloped  countries,
6.7 The Ukraine has 500 scientific institutions  working on thousands of different problems ranging  from the atom to the cosmos, There are as many  students in our higher educational establishments  ag in the United Kingdom, France, Spain, Sweden  and Austria combined, In the current year alone,  the output of trained experts by our highér educational  establishments will total 72, 000 including 23,000  engineers, Altogether, the Ukraine has 1, 500, 000  trained experts in the yarious disciplines. It is  with pride that I quote these data, for I see in them  not only the results of the self- sacrificing work of  my country and of the entire Soviet people and the  success of the socialist system, but also the pros-  pect opening up for every nation provided it em-  barks on the road to economio and cultural develop-  ment under conditions of complete political freedom  and an equitable social system, confident in the  friendly and disinterested support of other countries,
6.8 ‘These are our reasons for criticizing Unesco's  gelf-impoverishment, its failure - or near-failure -  to take advantage of the precious experience which  has been accumulated by the socialist countries re-  garding the development of national education sys-  tems, the organization of science and the work of  cultural institutions, We believe that Unesco should  study and draw general conclusions from the experi-  ence of the more developed countries and place the  really useful elements at the disposal of those that  need it,
6.9 We should also like Unesco, in ita publications  and by other means, to make the world more fully  aware of the cultural achievements of all peoples  and to familiarize them with the work of the great  creative artists who have won general recognition  and esteem, We are grateful for the evening devoted  to the memory of the outstanding Indian poet and  social leader Rabindranath Tagore, and the meeting  devoted to the great Russian author Leo Nikolaevich  Tolstoy,
6.10 The Ukrainian delegation would also like  Unesco to fulfil its international duty by taking part  in the celebrations in honour of the great Ukrainian  poet and thinker, the revolutionary democrat and  outstanding artist Taras Grigorevich Shevchenko,  the 150th anniversary of whose hirth will take place  in 1964. Shevchenko's work, and his poetic and  artistic genius, are universally recognized; trans-  cending national frontiers, he is known and honoured  in many countries. A monument has been raised to  him in the Canadian town of Toronto, while the  United States Congress recently decided to erect a  Shevchenko monument in Washington, The Ukrainian  National Commission for Unesco has already been   PLENARY MEETINGS Xv  informed by many countries that they have begun to  make preparations for our great poet's 150th anniver-  sary, We hope that Unesco, too, will widely pubM-  cize this memorable occasion, and in due course our  Commission will come forward with concrete pro-  sala,  Bott We regard the exchange of national cultural  values as a sure means of establishing mutual under-  standing between peoples, and we are therefore  striving in every way to develop friendiy- relations  with other countries in culture, science and education.
6.12 À fairly considerably amount of time is  devoted at the plenary meetings and in the Commissions  of our General Conference to questions concerning  the work of the Nüätional Cornmissions for Unesco,  which are an important conrecting link between  Unesco and the public in the individual countries, I  should like to take this opportunity of urging the  Secretariat to strengthen its Jinks with the National  Commissions, paying more attention to the creative  aspects of these links, rathor than their purely  formal aspects, It is ‘often stated that the National  Commissions in Africa, Asia and Latin America are  still largely inactive, as they lack the necessary  experience, The Secretarial should establish a living  link with them by inviting their members to study  courses and by organizing exchange visits between  members of Commissions. We would be glad to  accept representatives of the National Commissions  of the African countries, for example, and to share  our experience with them, ‘The figure of 1% of |  Unesco's budget that is devoted to assisting National  Commissions is in our opinion totally inadequate.
6.13 All these valuable links can and should be  extended; and the work of the Commissions greatly  stimulated, provided - I repeat - the Secretariat  displays the necessary alertness and willingness,  I should like to state, for the Secretariat's {nforma-  tion, that the Ukrainian National Commission, after  reviewing {ta possibilities in this connexion, has  worked out a general scheme for increasing the scope  of its activities, We have prepared a list of articles  and other material which we shall offer to the Secre-  tariat for publication by Unesco (within ths framework  of the allocations), Meanwhile the task of selecting  the outstanding works of Ukrainian literature for  publication in the Unesco series of translations of  Masterpieces of world literature is almost completed.
6,14 Mr. President, in discussing in detail the  work of the National Commissions and the forms and  nature of the cultural relations which bind countries  together in a general effort for continued progress,  we cannot confine ourselves to these aspects of our  mutual activities, however important they are. It
18 vital, in this connexion, to define correctly the  sort of contribution which, as stated in the Report  by the Director-General on the Activities of the  - Organization in 1960, "the Organization can make  to international understanding hetween the peoples,  to the pacification of the minds of men and to the  achievement of a general disarmament: leading to a  lasting peace", But merely to discourse ùn the 1m-  portance of the contribution which Unesco cah make  to the great cause of the struggle for peace and interna-  tional understanding gentlemen, is totally inadequate.
6.15 To confirm our profound belief in the value  of Uneaco's contribution, we must make concrete
245  efforts - and I should like to stress the word  "concrete" - "throughout each hour of every day"  to use Unesco's resources to bring about the forma.  tion, in all Member States, of a climate of opinion  favourable td the creation of "a world without war,  a world without armaments, a world without  oppressed and enslaved peoples" . As the head of  the Soviet Government, Nikita Sergeevich Khrushchev,  rightly said in his mesgage to the General Conference:  "Only under conditions of lasting peace can there be  really fruitful collaboration between scientists,  cultural workers and educators in all countries for  the soluilon of the many serious problems facing  mankind", .
6.16 The Ukjainan people, like all men of good-  will, warmly welcomes the inspiring and heartening  message of Nikita Sergeevich Khrushchev, that tire-  less fighter for Peace between peoples, and expresses  the hope that the General Conference will support the  lofty principles sat forth in the message from the  Head of the Soviel; Government and will adopt déoi-  sions "constituting a worthy contribution to the  glorious task of promoting p2ace and human progress"  We were very pleased to note the cordial response  by many delegailons to Nikita Sergeevich Khrushchev's  friendly messige.
6.17 If Unesco is to be a really vital organization,  it must not shy away from the social and economic  changes taking place in the world, nor refuse to take  part in solving the fundamental problems raised by  life itself, There must be no hiding behind the cloak  of a cultural and educational mission in order to  avoid responsibility for the fate of the world, To  talk about eschewing politica is in itself a political  act. Infact, as we can see from the ungeemly part  played by responsible Unesco officials in the Congo,  from the openly tendentious interpretations ofthe  historical development of the USSR and other social-  ist countries which appear in certain Unesco publica-  tions, and from the policy of discrimination and  favouritism evidenced in the composition of the  Secretariat, and s0 on, Unesco is far from being a  non-political organization, as certain persons have  tried to suggest,
6.18 It 18 therefore preferable, within Unesco's .  walls, not to bring forward the bankrupt argument  of the United Nations’ monopoly of discussions of  war and peace but rather to urge Unesco - since  there is no time to lose - to make active use of its.  resources, énergy and experience in solving the most  pressing problems of our time - general and com-  plete disarmament, peaceful coexistence and the final  liquidation of colonialism, tailing which there will  never be any real flowering of education, science  and culture in any country. . .
6.19 How can Unesco find its righttul place in the  work of solving these fündamental problems?. The  Ukrainian delegation's approach to this question is’  as follows: we consider that the constructive pro-  posals submitted by the delegations of the Soviet .  Union and other Socialist countries for examination  by the General Conference offer excellent prospects.  for the continuation of Unesco's work in the right  direction. I have in mind, in particular, the Soviet  Union resolutions on the querion of general and  complete disarmament, peaceful coexistence and  co-operation among States with different social and   Xv PLENARY  economic systems, the rôle of Upesco in contributing  to the attainment of independence by. colonial countries  and peoples, and the restoration to former colonies,  by imperizlist powers, of part of the resources -  plundered from them by the monopolies,
6,20 We earnestly hope that the General Conference  will approve the draft resolution submitted jointly by  the Ukraine and Czechoslovakia on the basic principles  and oriteria of Unesco's publications policy in the  field of social sciences, the draft resolution submitted  by Burma, Ceylon and the Ukraine on the utilization  of information media for strengthening peace and the  condemnation of war propaganda, enmity and hatred  between peoples, and all other progressive resolu-  tions, '
6.21 - As to the proposals made by other countries,  our delegation is taking part in their examination  with a deep sense of responsibility, assessing them  objectively from the sole standpoint of the contribu-  tion they can make towards fulfilling Unesco's lofty’  purposes, It is gratifying to see that #0 many con-  structive proposais have been placed before the  Conference, for it shows the deep interest of the  Member States in the work of our Organization,
6.22 Our task is to give the maximum considera-  tion on a priority basis to the requests made by the  young countries, and to ensure that the most construc-  tive proposals - such as the Soviet Union resolutions -  are adopted by all the delegations attending the  General Conference in full consciousness of their  duty to mankind, It is only right that the Conference  should condemn the outmoded and disgraceful system  of colonialisin.
6.23 We can only welcome the fact that the General  Conference today unanimously decided on the pro-  posal of the Soviet Union, to include in its agenda  the question of Unesco's part in furthering the attain-  ment of independence by colonial countries and  peoples, How much greater Unesco's authority will  be in the eyes of millions of people in all countries  when, with its very own resources, it actively begins  to promote general and complete disarmament: for  what could be more important than peace for the  successful development of education, science and  culture.
6.24 I should like to take this occasion, with the  permission of our hosts, the French people, to quote  the angry and impassioned words pronounced by  Victor Hugo on the centenary of the death of Voltaire:  ",... Shame on war! No, there is no glory in blood-  shed! What good, what purpose can it serve, to pile  corpse on corpse? It must not be permitted that life  be used for death!" Then there is another appeal to  the public by Victor Hugo which I should like to quote:  "We, the peoples, call a halt to our rulers: these  crimes havs gone on long enough". Echoing these  words by thé great French writer are those uttered  by Maxim Gorkl on thé eve of the first World War,  and which still resound today as a terrible warning:  "Approaching war threatens to reduce to ashes the  centres of European culture and to transform the  survivors - those who are not slain, maimed or  driven mad - into wild beasts",
6.25 Thé whole point of the question today is this:  the fate of the major and minor projects, of the con-.  ventions and recommendations which Uneiéico has 50  far drawn up, and of the programmes of activities  “
246  MEETINGS  which we are now preparing with such care and  attention, depends not only on the political decisions  of the United Nations: the fate of Unesco's many  projects and programmes of activities also depends  on our own efforts, here and now, at this Conference  of ours,
7. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the delegate of Libya, Mr, Mansur,
8.1 Mr, MANSUR (Libya)  Mr, President, Mr. Director-General, fellow  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy  to have the honour of addressing you on behalf of .  our Minister of Education, H,E, Mr, el Bishti, who  would vei much have liked to speak to this august -  assembly himself nad he not been obliged to return  to Tripoli this morning, He has asked me to con-  vey to you his warm greetings and best wishes for  the success of the Conference and to replace him in  delivering his speech which I shall now present to  you,
8.2 hr, President, it gives me very great pleas-  ure to convey to this distinguished assembly the  greetings and good wishes of the Government and  psople of the United Kingdom of Libya. Indeed, Sir,
1 am happy to have been called upon to lead the  delegation of my country to the eleventh session of  the General Conference of Unesco - an organization  with which I have been closely associated in Libya  for many years and ‘which has a special place in the  regard of the Libyan people because of its dedicated  sérvice in the noble cause of education, science and  culture,
8.3 The Libyans are well aware of the valué and  importauce of the assistance granted to Libya by  Unesco and the other Specialized Agencies and I  should like to take this opportunity to express our  grateful appreciation to this Organization for its  great contribution to our country's development.  Our gratitude best finde expression in the co-operation  given to the experts sent out to us'and in the sub-  stantial sums which we allocate to many of the pro-  jects undertaken,
8.4 If these projects and also the several expand-  ing educational programmes we have undertaken or  which it is proposed to initiate in Libya are to yleld  their best fruit, a lasting climate of peace is in-  dispensable, Livya passionately believes in peace  and will give its whole-hearted support to any  motion or action proposed under the United Nations  Charter that promises to lessen tension in this  troubled world and which will promote international  co-ordination and collaboration.
8,6 When I think of the beginnings of Unesco my  mind turns to the begimings of my own country.  both were born out of war, Under the bombs batter-  ing London the founders of Unesco dreamed of a world  organization dedicated to reason and concord, affirm.  ing that ‘the wide diffusion of culture and the educa-  tion of humanity for justice and liberty and peace  ‘  are indispensable to the dignity of man and constituié  a sacred duty which all nations must fulfil in a spirit  of mutual concern and concord!, The purpose of the  Organization wag to contribute to peace and security  by promoting collaboration among the nations through  education. Libya shares these lofty ideals; they are   PLENARY  the life and s irit of our Constitution and have inspired  the policy ing actiohs of our country since we achieved  independence iri December 1851,
8,6 The desire for peace, justice, liberty, for  harmony and fruitful co-operation with other countries  has, as in the case of Unesco, grown with our growth  and ‘strengthened with our strength. Like countries  in similar circumstances, our land, recovering from  deep wounds of the past and the ravages of World  War II, needs the healing touch: a friendly under-  standing of our way of life, sympathetic appreciation  I  of our problems, and unfettered technical and financial  assistance to rebuild our economy and to develop our  . social and cultural institutions,
8,7 It io not many years since Libya attairiéd inde-  pendence; nine years is a brief span in the life of a  nation. In this comparatively short time we have  endeavoured, under the guidance ‘of our groat and  gracious sovereign, His Majesty King Idris, to give  the maximum attention and a major part of our limited  resourced to the promotion and development of educa-  tion in our country, Education in Libya has had to be  built up almost from scratch since the country gained  independence, This has not been an easy task and  innumerable problema, which a sustained effort is  being made to overcome, have faced the administra-  tion,
8.8 The objective of free compuldory primary  education for all is laid down in the Libyan Constitu-  tion, At the time we gained independence fewer than
10 per cent of the adult population had ever been to  school. The Libyan Government, therefore, concen-  trated on laying the foundations for a proper school  system and opening the doors of education to the  largest number of children in the shortest possible  time.
8.8 The great enthusiasm and the eagerness of the  Libyan peoplé to acquire knowledge may be gauged  from the inérease in school enrolment from 45,000  in 1952 to 120,000 in 1960, The number of schools  has increased from 234 to 524. This, in the words  of the recent World Bank Survey Mission to Libya,  is a very considerable achievement. Today about 70  per cent of ail Libyan children in the primary school  age group (from 6 to 12) are in school, a proportion  which we believe stands up well to comparison with  that in other underdeveloped countries, In accordance  with the Libyan Educational Law of 1952, which is an  outstanding feature of the country's legislation, the  expansion and development of education at all the  levels - from the primary to the university - including  boarding facilities, are-financed from the public  budget. The Government has met this intense popular  desire by planning a national system of education  which is now being successfully mit into practice,  The main difficulty facing the development of the  education programme i§ lack of an adequate supply of  trained teachers. In the last fivé years the problem  has been effectively tackled and we are now in a  position to produce our own supply of teachers at the  primary level. We are confident that the increasing  output of graduates from the Libyan National Univers-  ity will help us solve the problem of preparatory and  secondary school teachers with #qual success.
8.10 Mindful of the needs of the adult population  which had been denied the benefits of education, the  Libyan Government has made considerable efforts in
247  MEETINGS Xv  the last five years in the field of adult literacy and °  fundamental education, with the whole-hearted and.  valuable collaboration ‘ot Unesco, "Evening classes -  attached to 250 schools throughout Libya have today  an adult enrolment of nearly 20,000; in addition to  this we inaugurated in 1958, with the assistance of  Unesco, a Fundamental Education and Community  Development Centre, at Fuehat in Cyrenaica, for  men and women, Further, in collaboration with  Unesco, 20 adult education centres have been estab-  lished in the remote Saharan oases.
8,11 Under the Technics! Assistance programme  Libya has had valuable assistance from Unesco in  other fields as well; for example, in teacher training  at the men's and women's colleges in Tripoli; in  arts and crafts, model gchools and kindergartens,  and in physical education, in the provinces of Tripoli  and Cyrenaica,
8.12 The fellowships programmie of Unesco has  proved useful to Libya, but I feel there is a real  need to increase the allocation of fellowships to  countries like ours, in view of their rapidly expand-  ing educational programmes which require a large  number of trained personnel to sustain them.‘
8,13 We have noted with regret the progressive  reduction in the technical assistance allocation to  Libya in recent years." We are aware of and we  understand the incredsing demands on the Ovganiza-  tion's resources, but we had hoped that, in view of  the special responsibility of the United Nations to-  wards Libya, the level of assistance would at least  be maintained. The next few years will be éritical  ones for Libya's development and we therefore urge  most strongly that the assistance to Libya under the  Technical Assistance and Participation programmes  of Unesco should be restored to former levels and  maintained there during this vital period."
8.14 The Libyan delegation is glad to note that  Unesco is giving considerable importance to the  major and regionel projects under its programme  for 1961-1962, It will be recalled that our delegation  to the tenth session of the General Conference had  supported the proposal for the introduction of regional  projects for the Arab countries. The Beirut Con-  ference on the educational needs of the Arab countries,  which I had the pleasure to attend earlier this year,  arrived at some important decisions which need to  be speedily executed.
8.15 The Libyan delegation recommends enhanced  technical assistance for the Arab States and the newly  ind.pendent countries of the African continent and  urges favouzable consideration of the regional and  cultural projects for this area, May I be permitted  to observe that the great efforts of the Arab countries  to strengthen and advance their educational pro-  grammes against numerous odds, and the phenomenal  popular response their endeavours have met, call for  special considerationbythis Confsrèncé. It might be  of interest to you to know that in Libya a quarter of our  modest national budget is being spent on education.
8.16 The Libyan delegation also warmly endorses  the resolution submitted by two of our brother Arab  States to the effect that: ‘the Arabic language shall  forthwith become one of the working languages of  Unesco'. The time has come when the claims of the  Arabic language, as stressedinthis resolution, should  receive the attention that has long been their due.   XV PLENARY
8.17 The Proposed Programme and Budget of  Unesco for 1961-1962 is under, consideration now by  this Conference. It is not necessary at this stage to  refer in detail to the proposals which particularly  interest us, The Libyan delegation looks forward to  playing a full and positive rôle in the deliberations  of the commitiees and wishes this Conference every  success in its weighty task.
8.18 Mr. President, Libya extends its warm wel-  come to the many new nations which have recently  entered the United Nations family, and may I be  permitted to conclude with the words spoken on a  memorable occasion: ‘I have faith in Unesco because
1 have faith in peace and J have faith in mankind’. "
9. The PRESIDENT;  I call upon H.E, Mr, Tran Huu Thé, President of  the National Commission for Unesco and Head of the  delegation of Viet-Nam.
10.1 Mr, TRAN HUU THE (Viet-Nam) (Translation  from the French):  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, I should  like to begin by adding my country's modest contribu-  tion to the enthusiastic tributes paid from this plat-  form to the ideals and achievements of Unesco. The  people of Viet-Nara, nourished for centuries at the  sources of Buddhist and Confucian wisdèm, can only  support with enthusiasm every effort to promot  peace and international understanding.
10.2 Ladies ard gentlemen, throughout history and  especially in our. era, the idea of human brotherhood  has suffered such cruel blows that to say with  Confucius '""Acruss the four oceans, all men are  brothers" seems almost absurd. And yet, at a  gathering such :is ours - the world-wide nature of  whichhas just been considerably reinforced through  the admission of many African countries - one cannot  help feeling thet it is in our era - and in our era  alone - that mankind at last finds itself in clycum-  stances conducive to awareness of its unity.
10.3 However, this unity would have no meaning if  it were reduced to mere uniformity, entailing the  obliteration of each people's individual characteristics  and universal agreement would be highly undesirable,  did it but express the mute terror of the masses,
10.4 We ari! also grateful to Unesco for its tact  and thoroughness in seekiny as it does, with the  patience required in order to bring any work of  historical significance to fruition, to unite the nations  not by repression but by promoting the full develop-  ment of their own individuality, -
10.5 - Thé Government of Viet-Nam has always  strongly approved of this work and has contributed  to it to the full extent of its potentialities. ‘ During  the five years of our young Republic's existence, under  the leadership of President Ngo Dinh Diem, education,  science and culture in our country have, despite  countless difficulties, made tremendous strides.  Out of a totsl population of 14 million inhabitants in free  Viet-Nam, ver two million illiterates have learned  to read and write; and one-and-a-half million pupile  now attend primary and secondary schools, three  times as many as in 1955, At the beginning ‘ot the  October term, three universities opened their doors  to more than 11,000 students, and the first engineer-  ing graduates to be trained entirely in Viet-Nam will  MEETINGS  leave our engineering faculties this year.’ Over
5,000 Viet-Namese students are pow studying at  Asian, Furopean and American universities, Several  foreign cultural centres now exist at Saigon and are  familiarizing us with the principal Western cultures,  whilst cultural relations with other friendly countries  are becoming increasingly close and profitable,
10,6 With regard to activities carried out in  direct co-operation with Unesco, Viet-Nam has had  the honour of being called upon to organize two  regional seminars, One of these, a training course  for South East Aslan experts in marine sciences,  was held in 1858 and the other, which took place at  the beginning of this year, was devoted to the rdle  of suclological research in the development of rural  life in Asia, The Tan-An Fundamental Education  Centre, at which two Unesco experts are working,  is now turning out its fifth batch of men and women  teachers for community achools, while another  Centre, situated in the village of Phu-Huu, specializes  in the training of teachers for fundamental education  A large-scale plan for the transformation of a num-  ber of our traditional primary schools into commun-  fty schools is being studied by the Department of  Education, Finally, in pursuance of the recommenda-  tions of the Karachi Conference on Primary Education  in Asia, a mission of Unesco experts has just arrived  in Viet-Nam to study the problems involved in the  development of education in relation to economic  development.
10.7 This favourable situation is enabling us to  look forward to the future with confidence and in-  ducing us to believe more than ever in the success  of our co-operation with Unesco. It is in this spirit  that I shall now comment on the proposed programme  and budget of our Organization for the next two years,
10,8 The delegation of Viet-Nam has read the  document carefully and approves of it in general.  It would, however, like to draw the Conference'a  attention to the exceptional importance of adult educa-  tion in the world today, especially for countries in  process of development. In such countries, the ob-  stacles to economic and social progress are ascrib-  able not only to the lack of capital or of.techniclans  but also - and even more so - to the fact that the  immense majority of the active nopulation of these  countries lacks the minimum of technical knowledge  required in order to adapt themaelves to new hitua-  tions and to solve their own problems with a view to  improving their Living conditions. Adult education  is therefore one of tho prerequigites for the success  of development programmes,, particularly when the  bulk of the active population lives in rural districta.
10.92 The delegation of Viet-Nam notes with satie-  faction that adult education has a prominent place in  the proposed programme and budget, It is also  pleased to see that Unesco intends to hold a series of  regional conferences, to follow up the World Confer-  ence held in Montreal,
10.10 It sincerely hopes that a ‘predominantly  agricultural country, situated at the cross-roads  of South East Asia, may be chosen to organize one  of theae conferences, in order to study, in the light  of the general principles laid down in Montreal,  the ways, means and methods of adult education  suitable for the rural populations of developing  countries.   PLENARY MEETINGS
10.11 Experiments and recent sociological research  have shown that rural populations obey their own laws  and have their own interests and that, to be effective,  education should assume different forms for rural  and urban communities. : ;
10,12 Mr, President, this is the main proposal  that my delegation would like to submit to this Con-  ference; I consider that it will be of interest not only  to South East Asia but also to other regions of the  world faced with the same difficulties, For its part,  the Government of Viet-Nam attaches great in:port-  ance to the rôle of education in the development of  rural areas and is exceedingly anxious to exchange  its experiences in that field with all other countries  with similar problems,
10,13 Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, I still  have the pleasant duty of greeting, on behalf of my  Government, the other delegations to this Conference  and, more particularly, the representatives of the  new African States. The unanimous satisfaction with  which their arrival among us has been welcomed, as  well as that shown when the President of this Con-  ference was elected are a good omen for the future  of Africa. .
10.14 The delegation of Viet-Nam sincerely hopes  that the African nations, which certainly have their  own special contribution to make to education, science  and culture, will be able to do so in peace and pros-  perity.
11. The PRESIDENT:  I now call upon H,E, Dr. Beeby, the Ambassador  of New Zealand to France and Head of the New  Zealand delegation.
12.1 Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand);  Mr, President and fellow delegates, I want to  speak today about education, but may I first perform  three brief but pleasant duties, Firstly, the New  Zealand delegation would like to join with the others  in the welcome ty new Member States. They have  given a new gense of reality to this Conference by  coming to state their own problems in their own words.  I have attended almost every session of the General  Conference and I have never known one to grasp as  realistically and concretely as this one has done the  vast educational problems facing the world and the  contribution that Unesco can make towards their  solution, Whatever we may do to help these new  Member States in the future, at the moment, as a  Conference, we are in their debt for bringing this new  sense of urgent purpose to our deliberations,
12,2 I hesitate to intrude a personal note into this  general debate, but this may be the only occasion I  shall have to thank you all for the honour you did my  country and me in electing me to the Executive Board.  I shall try to justify your choice. I feel impelled  also to put oh permanent record my gratitude and  that of my country to the Australian Government and  the Australian member of the Board for deciding so  generously not to run for election in order that New  Zealand might do so, My only regret is that this  has meant the loss to the Board of a member who has  made the fine contribution to its work that Dr. Gardner  Davies has done.
12.3 Thirdly, I should like to congratulate the  Director-General on his report and on the two years!
249  Xv  work that it represents, Among the many things  deser/ing praise I would like to single out one that  may at first sight seem a little odd to newcomers to  this Conference. That is the technical competence  of the reports produced by Unesco over the past two  years. I take just as a case in point the three excel-  lent reports on the educational needs in Africa, Asia  and the Middle East that were produced during 1958  and 1960. In 1949, Unesco could not, and did not,  produce reports of this quality on topics of such  magritude. On this at least I can speak with author-  ity - for in 1949 I was myself in charge of the Educa.  tion Department of Unesco, I am saying this not in  any excess of modesty but because ! want to empha-  size the fact that over its brief history Unesco has  learnt new skills to deal with new problems, The  procedures used to develop these three reports now  look quite simple and obvious. All I can say is that  ten years ago they were not simple and obvious to us.  They have been ground out by the hard work of 15  years and they have sprung from a growing under-  standing of the ways in which any country can be  helped by others without losing anything of its own  dignity. There are few skills that will be more vital  to the world in our generation. ,
12.4 Now may I turn to somé problems of educa-  tion that underlie so much of Unesco's programme,  It is already a platitude to say that the surging de.  mand for education has been one of the striking  features of the past two decades. Wherever. you  look you wili find it. In the economically more  developed countries where universal primary educa-  tion is well established many of us have struggled  for years to meet the rising demand for secondary  education, and in the less fortunate countries the  clamour for universal primary education has reached  a level that no world statesman can afford to ignore.
12,5 This, I say, is already a platitude, though  none the less true for being one. But the moment  you look below the surface to seek out the reasons  for this surging demand for education, you find  further truths that are far from being platitudinous  and whose full implications, even yet, we still see  only dimly. One obvious reason, of course, why  every organized autonomous State in history has hac  to develop an education system is to provide a body  of men and women to conduct the affairs of the  country, as politiclans and éivil servants, as pro-  fessional men and industrialists. In most of our  countries, this evolution of a ruling élite has come  first, and the popular education of the masses has  followed, sometimes after centuries. This is the  classic pattern of the growth of an education system -  first the education of an élite selected on the basis  of parental position, wealth, ability and then the  gradual spreading out through the mass of the people  of some or all of the benefits once enjoyed only by  the few. Members of the élite, be it said to their  credit, have often taken a leading part in this process,  both in their own countries and in dependent terri-  tories.
12,6 But now à new kind of problem faces us. In  great areas of the worid where countries, sometimes  newly independent, are struggling to build up the  complex core of trained men and women to run the  government and affairs of the country, they find  themselves faced at the same time with a clamant   Xv PLENARY  demand for at least elementary education for every  child, And this is no calm official demand from  some government committee for a given number of  necondary and unfversity school graduates to fill an  estimated number of vacancies, It is the demand of  individual men and women, in country and town alike,  for a chance for their own children, There are areas  of the world that I myself knew 20 years ago, where  the authorities had to cajole and compel parents to  send their children to school and where now they are  struggling to meet a demand for schools that is too  great for them to handle,
12,7 I ask myself what has caused this new and  passionate demand for education, There must be  many here who have a far more intimate knowlt dge  of the situation than I shall ever have, but may I be  bold enough to venture my own opinion, In gresi  areas of the world, men and women, within our  generation and especially within the past twenty  years, have come to believe that their children  might lead a better life than they did, might know a  standard of living higher than their own. And for  millions this is a new idea, In some regions, parti-  cularly in the rural areas, life had been relatively  static for generations or even for centuries, and, of  course with notable exceptions, the most the average  village parent could hope was that his son would till  the same patch of grudging soil or stand at the same  bench with the same simple tools that he had used  himself. In such conditions elementary education  could be, for some people, only an added burden.
12.8 Then, perhaps because the world ie shrinking  and every man has some idea how other men live,  the idea grew in the minds of responsible parents  that their children were not bound on a wheel, but  given the chance, could make better lives for them-  selves than their parents had led, But the one condi-  tion was that they must first have education.
12,9 Whether it be well-founded or not, this is a  belief that could shake the world. To judge of its  strength you have only to imagine the feelings of a  . mother who sees her children growing up in a village  without a school, sees them reach the age of 5, 10,
15 years and knows that the chance is probably gone  forever, that they will never be able to compete on  equal terms with other men. There may, for all I  know, be loftier motives than this for education, but  there is none stronger. Statesmen and reformers ~  may see education as the essential means towards  building a new Staté or a new Utopia, but for every  one of those there are a thousand parents seeking  education for the simple purpose of giving their own  children a chance in life. To their demand must ba  added the dissatisfaction of those deprived of educa-  tion, as they find themselves growing up ill-equipped  to deal with the complexities of modern life. I is  this, I believe, above ail else that has given the .  demand for education in our day its explosivé force.  It is no longer the slowly growing demend fostered  by the reformers of the Nineteenth century; it has  outstripped even the urgent demand of goveruments  and ifdustry for educated workers; it is a passionate  demand that will stem from every village ‘where a  school does not exist. -it has its roots in the love of  parents for their children, and no roots strike deeper.
12.10 If this is true - and I am convinced that it is -  the demand for education has at last become a major  MEETINGS  political force to reckon with in the world's affairs.  No democratic government can resist it, and no  government of any kind can remain stable unless it  makes serious plans to give the people the education  they demand for their children, :
12,11 And this is where we meet cold reality, We  know that, at least in their present stage of economic  development, many of the countries where the need  is greatest have neither the money to build all the  schools, pay all the teachers und buy all the equip-  ment they need, nor have they erough skilled man-  power to plan and carry out the vast programme -  demanded of them, Even if money and manpower  were put at their disposal tomorrow, the building up  of a universal school system takes time. Teachers  must be educated and trained, and people to train  them must themselves first be trained, All the  auxiliary services - admiristration, inspection,  textbooks - must be developed, Meanwhile time  passes, populations grow, the pressure of parents  and children for schooling mounts, and if the demand  is not satisfied, political discontent grows, :
12,12 At the same time a country is frequently  struggling with the problems of building a new State  and a new administration. It is not just that it may  have to choose between education and, say, hospitels  or roads or electric power for its industries. It -  may also, in the short run, be compelled to make  the even more painful choice between rapidly extend-  ing ita primary school system or building up second-  ary schools and higher institutions to provide it with  the élite corps essential to a modern administration.  This is a choice that most of our countries have had  to make in their time, and every humane administra.  tor hates to make it, because it can mean the sacri-  fice of thé education of the many to the needs of the  country {or the services of the highly educated few  in the immediate future. It is a choice that is  doubly hard to make now when the "grass roots"  demand for education has assumed such political  importance.
12,13 The last thing 1 would with to do, Mr,  President, is to sound a note of discouragement. I  believe these newly developing countries have the -  vigour and the faith, with our help, to do the job.  But I do want to stress the fact - spéaking perhaps  more as an educator now than às a diplomat - that  these developing countries face an educational prob-  lem harder than most of our countries have ever  faced. In a decade or two they must solve, all at  once, the problems we have dealt with plecemeal  over a century or two. They are going to need all  the help the rest of our Member States can give  them. Financial aid they will clearly need - and  judging by the spirit of this Conference I am sure  it will be forthcoming. But they will need no less  the services of the best and most experienced  teachers and adminisirators we can find, people  whom, in less urgent times, our own countries just  could not afford to lone, :
12.14 No less important, these countries need to  Know that there is an organization like Unesco to  which they can turn for advice and help when they  need it, As others have said, it is not a matter of  Unesco or anyone else telling these countries how  to run their education systems. I have met men  myself in allegedly underdeveloped countries whose   PLENARY  advice I would have been happy to have on running the  education system of my own country when I was re-  sponsible for it. They knôw more than anyone else  about their own basic problems, But in general there  are far too few of them in any one country to face  alone the vast problems of the next decade, and they  are often unsupported by the necessai y technical  services. Theye should be a cool, skilled, impartial,  professional body to whom any country can turn for  such advice and advisers as it feels it needs, and for  specialists who are willing to commit themselves for  a period of years to doing a job and not just advising  on how it shculd be done.
12.16 That brings me to my last and, I think, ‘most  important point, If Unesco is to serve ‘this purpose -  and I know of no other international body that can - it  must remain, in the words I have just used, cool,  skilled, impartial, professional and utterly committed  to its task, The demand for education, I have said,  and sald advisedly, is a new explosive political force  in the world, a force that mén could use wisely or  mischievously. The newly developing countries will  need all their skill and wisdom and all the unselfish  help that we can give them if they are to satisfy at  the same time their citizens’ demands for universal  education and the countries! needs for leaders,  administrators and professional men,
12.16 If we, who count ourselves among the more  fortunate nations, ever try to introduce our own poli-  tical differences into Unesco or to use Unesco for our  individual political purposes, we shall unfit the  Organization for the high and vital role it has to play,  and we and the countries we are trying to serve will  all be the poorer for it. The problems these countries  have to face in education are already bigger than men  should be asked to face alone, and their solution will  take the combined goodwill, wit and wisdom of ua all.
1 hope that we shall never deliberately add to that  burden the heavy weight of our own political differ-  ences,
13. The PRESIDENT:  I now have great pleasure in calling upon Mr.  Pfeffer, the Head of the delegation of Chile.
14.1 Mr. PFEFFER (Chile) (Translation from the  Spanish):  Mr. President and fellow delegates it is a great  honour for me to vepresent the Government of Chile  at this eleventh session of the General Conference of  Unesco,
14.2 Iam sure that I shall derive from it in the  way of personal contacts, new ideas and a wider view  of educational problems, far more than I can offer in  return, I very much hope, howeveér, that I shall be  able to convey to my Government and to the educators  in my country the stimulus and valuable experience  that participation in the discussions of this great  international Organization means to all of us, so that  they may be converted into action beneficial for educa-  tion.
14,3 For Chile, membership of Uriesco implies the  continuation of its long history of international co-  operation in education, science and culture, Great  teachers from all over the world have helped to forge  our educational system, In the last century, Andres  Bello, a Venezuelan scholar, was the first Rector of
251  MEETINGS Xv  our University; Domingo Faustino Sarmiento, the  distinguished Argentinian politician and educational-  ist, was head of our first teacher-training school;  whilst Europes teachers of various nationalities  taught at our }lecondary and teacher-training schools  and took chari;e of our first university faculty for  the training of secondary school teachers.
14,4 Chile therefore has identified itself with the  ideals of Unesco and has co-operated fully in the  Organization's programme, and more especially in  the projects of mutual benefit to all the countries of  our hemisphere, .
14.5 I should like to refer to the Latin American  Centre for the Training of Educational Specialists,  attached to the University of Santiago, which is one  of the activities of the Major Project being carried  out in my country with the generous backing of the  Government and the University of Chile,
14,6 Since 1958, thirty specialists in the various  branches of education, selected by the South  American governments, have graduated annually,  The 90 teachers who have already graduated and  those who will follow during the ten-year period of  this project will be entrusted with the task of il...  proving and extending education and of disseminating  among the teachers and children of Latin America  the ideals of mutual understanding and international  friendship,
14.7 The Government and the University of Chile  consider it a privilege to sponsor this project, which  gives the teachers of my country the delicate re-  sponsibility of {influencing the training of those who  are to become the leaders of Latin American  education.
14.8 One of the principal aims of the Major Project  for the Extension and Improvement of Primary  Education in Latin America is to apply planning  principles and techniques in education.
14.9 The traditional, recognized practices, valid  ag long as the educational system satisfied the needs  of only a very small section of the population, which  increased very slowly and was not affected by the  great social and economic changes of the contem-  porary world, cannot be continued without causing  immeasurable harm,
14.10 It has now been proved that Latin America  is the area of the world with the highest rate of  demographic expansion, a fact which calls for ex-  ceptional efforts to extend education at a rate  superior to that of population growth and to improve  services so as to make the maximum use of material,  financial and human resources,
14.11 Once we are thoroughly familiar with educa-  tional conditions and the exact nature and extent of  requirementa, when we know where technical or  professional workers are needed and, more speci-  fically, in what branches they should specialize, we  - ahall be able to assess the efficiency of our syllubuses _  and curricula and see what types of schools are needed  and where, what teachers are necessary and what new  educatiunal opportunities we can offer our young people.
14.12 Thus, the idea of extending and adapting  education to social needs call for overall planning  as an essential bagis for the formulation of a national  educational policy,
14.13 The overall planning of education, "which  has assumed such importance in the Major Project   Xv  for the Extension and Improvement of Primary Educa-  tion in Latin America, 18 one of the most rewarding  tasks and one of the Lust ways oJ advancing education  throughout the world,
14,14 My country has already begunthe studies re-  quired for the application of the principles and tech-  niques of overall planning to its educational services,  and in this important endeavour we hope to obtain the  valuable co-operation of Unesco,
14.15 We have noted with satisfaction that two acti-  vities in the programme for 1961-1962, ramely the  training of educational specialists and the application  of planning principles and techniques to education -  that are now beyond the experimental stage in our  continent - are to be extended to other regions of  the world which, like the Latin American republics,  are crying out for more and better educational op-  portunities for all,
14,16 I should also like to express my approval of  the programme for the development of Primary and  Secondary Education in Tropical Africa. Latin  America regards with great sympathy the efforts of  the young African nations to extend and improve their  educational systems and I cannot help remembering  that, only 150 years ago, the Latin American  countries were in a similar position, emerging from  colonialism and carrying on a lone struggle for cul-  tural emancipation in a world where international co-  operation and solidarity did not yet exist.
14,17 Therefore, we consider ourselves, in a way,  as your immediate predecessors and would like to  offer you our friendship and co-operation,
14,18 Every one of the countries in the great Latin  American community has something to contribute,  according to its means. Chile would like to co-  operaté in the development of education in Africa  with something which, although it has no material or  financial value, meets the most urgent need of that  great continent at this moment. Chile offers you  secondary school teachers. .
14.19 This human and professional contribution,  - though modest, added to that of other Latin American  countries where secondary school teachers are also  available, will ‘énable Latin America to assist in the  great educetional task in Africa by sending an appre:  ciable number of teachers;
14,20 Thus, the cultures and ideas of the two great  continents of the Southern Hémisphere will be blended.
14.21 Another Unesco activity under the Major  Project for the Extension and Improvement of Primary  Education in Latin America is the holding of a Con-  ference in the Western Hemisphere to study the rela-  tionships between éducation and economic and social  development, This study should yleld valuable informa-  tion on the fundamental importance of education as a  decisive factor in such development.
14,22 I am convinced that all the countries con-  cerned are looking forward with great interest to the  resulta of this Conference, especially as they should  contain useful guidance for the formulation of educa-  tional policy in Latin America.
14,23 We are sure that the co-operation we have  offered will be accepted. And we believe that the  excellent way in which the projects included in the  programme for 1861-19€2 have been developed - a  - proof of the careful study and efficient work  performed by the Unesco Secretariat - will
252  PLENARY MEETINGS  guarantee the success of the Organization's efforts  in the coming bieralal period.
14.24 My Government also wishes to refer to the  agajstance given by Unesco to the activities of the  Latin American Social Science Faculty (FLACSO),  FLACSO is an international university institution,  operating in Santiago under the auspices of the  Ghilean Government, for the training of Social  science teachers and research workeys. Its first  section, the Latin American Sociology School, has  already supplied Latin America with #0 specialisis  in that diss {pline who were trained on its premises,  and at the moment a second batch of 25 fellowship-  holders are following the course, Th: Consultative  Assembly of FLACSO, which met hers a few days  ago, approved the expanded programme of the insti-  tution which includes the establishment of two new  FLACSO Schools, for Economics and Public  Administration respectively, and a training course  for rural economists, Chile supports this new pro-  gramme, which will be financed with the help of  varfous international agencies and will make the  institution's activities extraordinarily broad in scope.  My Government wishes to express its satisfaction at  the way in which Unesco's Department of Social  Sciences has at all times assisted FLACSO in its  work, a fact which has contributed in no small meas-  ure to the success of the latter's activities, In  FLACSO's expanded programme, and with Unesco's  assistance, the Government of Chile hopes to contri-  bute to the training of social scientists, who are of  such importance for the programming, implementa-  tion and supervision of the economic «nd social  development plans of the Latin American countries,
14,25 The most direct way of attacking the evils  afflicting the world at their root, as philosophers  and thinkers have said throughout the ages, is  through education, However, armaments - the end-  product of mistrust and fear - absorb a large pro-  portion of thé vital resources of governments. And  why? To defend peace. the heart's desire of every  civilized people, .
14.26 And since this is in itself logical, parti.  cularly for thé small nations which haye not yet  achieved full economic development, peoples of  Latin America warmly welcomed the statement  made by the President of Chile at the 5th Meeting of  American Foreign Ministers in which he linked the  problem of armaments with the economic backward-  ness of those countries,
14.27 In this regard, Mr. President, my Govern-  ment, slihough it approves the idea of disarmament  in countries in the process of economic development,  did not consider it opportune to bring up the topic  for discussion before this Organization, which is not  the appropriate body to decide on the means of solv-  ing the problem in practice.
14,28 I cannot conclude without reference to a  subject which has deeply moved all Chileans - the  amazing, almost incredible generosity with which  the governments and peoples of the whole world ex-  tended the hand of friendship and gave us their sup-  port at a time of terrible tribulation for us, follow-  ing the recent earthquakes.
14.20 I said "governments and peoples" because,  in addition to the large sums of money, shiploads of  food, clothing, medicines and building materials,   PLENARY  and the very welcome, professional services of doctors  and nurses, airmen and sallors, engineers and  journalists, scientists and su many others, we in  Chile received thousands of donations from individuals  and public and private institutions and, among them -  and thie is something we shall never forget - large  and small sums collected by primary school pupils  of other countries, every cent of which meant sacri-  fice and privation.
14,30 Our educational problem became more acute  as a result of the damage suffered by the schools, 22%  of which, according to official estimates, were des-  troyed, Serlous damage was done to 26% of the re-  maining schools, and there was extensive destruction  of school furniture and buildings, and of the equipment  and machinery of the University of Concepciôn and  the Universidad Austral de Valdivia, It is this damage  in the field of education that the generosity of the  world and of this international Organization has  helped to alleyiate.
14.31 It is the habit of speakers, on every occasion  and in every tone of voice, to insist on their incapac-  ity to express their feelings, I feel deeply embar-  raased in repeating this siatement here in the imow-  ledge that no Chilean will ever find words of sufficient  depth or eloquence to express our individual and  collective feeling of gratitude towards the peoples  and governments of the world.
15, The PRESIDENT:  I call upon H.E. Mr. Kuypers, a member of the  Executive Board of Unesco and Vice-Chairman of the  delegation of Belgium,
16.1 Mr. KUYPERS (Belgium) (Translation from  the French):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, in this im-  posing hall, with its sober lines and colours, which  I might describe as a factory of international thought,  the voices cf distinguished and authoritative men  have once again resounded. What splendid ideas and  interesting suggestions have been launched from this  rostrum! We shall not easily forget the meeting  held last Saturday when, in this very hall, Unesco  seemed to us to have passed another milestone in its  history.
16.2 For the first time, our bienniel budget has  reached 30 million dollars. Particularly striking  was the fact that unanimity was obtained, and the  quality of the new programme, the expansion and con-  centration of our activities and the opening of Unesco's  doors to the uncommitted nations were acclaimed,  approved and sanctioned, What a source of satisfac-  tion for all those - from the Director-General and  his assistants, the Executive Board and the National  Commissions to the humblest of our collaborators -  who have worked on this task, which is so far only  beginning!
16.3 Our German colleague, a former architect,  yesterday made some entertaining comments on our  great meeting hal), where so many divergent  opinions clash and so many hopes converge. May  I be permitted to disagree with him. Since last  Saturday, our factory hall has seemed to me to  compare with those great auditoriums noted for their  acoustics and their atmosphere, It has acquired  what it hitherto lacked - a soul. I believe that  MEETINGS  we through our carefully weighed decision on  the budget, have given it that soul, ;
16,4 To this programme which is beginning and  which heralds a new dawn, Belgium has contributed,  perhaps modestly, but all the same effectively,
16,5 Two days ago, the honourable Minister lead-  ing the delegation of the Netherlands described here  his country's unique contribution to the Nublan under  taking - the contribution of a country which has for  centuries fought for its very life against the invading  sea, Allow me, Mr, President, to piesent you with  an attractively {ilustrated book, published by us and  related to that magnificent venture of saving the -  Nubian works of art in danger of submersion, Our  whole-hearted support will be given tomorrow to the  proposals of the Government of the United Arab  Republic to construct a dyke around the Abu Simbel  Temples and the Island of Philae - or any other pro-  tection which the engineers may devise, to dismantle  other threatened temples, and to participate actively  in the work of photogrammetry, in the Sudan as well.
16,6 It is doubtless unnecessary to remind you  that a fine exhibition arranged by the United Arab  Republic was recently presented, beginning in  Brussels and Ghent, and that we have launched a  regular campaign in favour of the project with a  travelling exhibition covering about twenty towns  and advertised to the public by means of illuminated  slides and lectures; radio and television broadcasts,  etc. Belgian scientific missions, now working in the  area, will continue their work there next year. We  have just been delighted to learn, incidentally, that  one of our architectural experts has been appointed  by the Egyptian Government, which rates his services  highly. An Action Committee has been formed, and  is only awaiting the end of this session of the Con-  ference to begin work,
16.7 I believe that we were among the first to ap-  preciate the signifisance of this splendid Unesco  undertaking and to contribute one million Belgian  francs, Ican promise you solemnly here that we  intend to continue our. support.
16.8 Mr, President and fellow delegates, 1 shall  not refer on this occasion to technical and vocational  education. Unesco seems to us to have at last taken  the right road, The report on the first meeting of  experts in this bratich of education, held in Brussels  a year ago, will enible the Programme Commission  and the relevant secvices to work out the guiding  principles for Uneaco's future activity,
16,6 I shall also say only a few words on the inter-  national collection of low-priced editions. I spoke  on this subject at léngth from this rostrum two  years ago, and received the unanimous support of  the Executive Board on the principle of issuing this  collection, The Senretariat has kept its word, Some  twenty works of Eastern and other literature have  already been published, and dozens of others - from  Japanese, Thai, Persian, Arabic, modern Greek  and many, many others - are being translated.
16,10 The works issued so far are intended only  for a specialized aid limited public, All well and  good. But is it not Unesco's rôle to bring the world's  literary heritage to the knowledge of the youth and  of serious readers in all countries? The range ie  capable of being widened, and I am still firmly con-  vinced that cheap pocket editions sponsored or even
253   hia PLENARY  published by Unesco are sure of a wide circulation,  at any rate in English and French editions. Unesco  is - or ought to be - the outstanding disseminator of  culture, whatever the numerical coverage of a parti-  cular lenguage such as Bulgarian, Rumanian, Dutch  and 50 on,
16,11 Roman Rolland, in a letter to Barbusse in
1922, made the following point: "I know that Paris  was not built in a day, and that human unity will not  be built in a century",
16,12 The acts of the matter are these: Unesco ia  meeting in Paris, where it has built its headquarters;  and the first ten years of its existence - one-tenth  of a century - already belong to the past. We must  therefore hurry!
16.13 Perhaps you will allow me, Mr, President  to present you also with a modest fifty-page pamphlet -  a "Primer of International Organizations”. It is  our reply to a problem which has exercised us all for  years - how to awaken the interest of children in such  abstract questions as international co-operation, and  the organization of the activities of the United Nations  and the Specialized Agencies, It is essential, never-  theless that a way of doing so be found, The young  people of today must not only become good citizens  of their countries but must be conscious at the same  time of being citizens of the world,
16.14 One of our educationalists - a former Unesco  official incidentally - presents his solution in these
50 pages, based on daily experiences of work with  children, The éxamples used are exceedingly simple -  a red or green light, which gives pedestrians and  perhaps even motorists a sense of discipline; a small  sports team, which develops a spirit of unity and under-  standing; poliomyelitis, leading to an account of the  World Health Organization; a letter or a visit to  Unesco House in Paris. .
16,15 We believe that this pamphlet is worth read-  ing and, more specifically, trying out. Write and  tell us how it strikes you, and how you think it could  be improved, The point at issue warrants cosisidera-  tion; it 18 of vital importance in a world so divided  and so dynamic.
16.16 In conclusion, I should like to ‘refer briefly  to a subject of absorbing interest to all thosé conscious  of the radical changes now taking place in Unesco. It  appears that the leaders of the great intérnational  organizations have latterly discovered the elementary  truth that the general spread of education is one of  the keys to economic and social expansion. ‘The result  is that various’ efforta have been initiated arid large  extra- budgetary i sums made available to Uneaco to  act in its’ own special sphere. These’ gums are far  greater than our own budget, and our Organization  is accordingly faced with new tasks in miaking rational  and economic use of them and supervising their use.  We have to avoid, of course, the twin risks of dis-  persal and bureaucratization, but in saying this I am  not voicing any facile criticism, It would not be fair  on our part, to begrudge the Director-General the  first-rate expertaysistance which he so greatly needs  inorderto carry out the tasks entrustedto himbythe  Conference, Our point is that thers must be an ever  tresh approach to questions of the structure, co-.  ordination, simplification and institution of, programmes.
16.17 To match this vista, we should - we feel -  adopt a forward-looking attitude - to use anexpression  s 254  MEETINGS  dear to our great and deeply lamented colleague  Gaston Berger, The time for major projects on  regional education seems to us to have passed, They  must be sublimated - or generalized rather, For
1963-1964, we should consider introducing a world-  scale major project with a view to launching à cam-  paign to combat and eliminate illiteracy in all the  rapidly developing countries and to expansion of  other levels of education in them as soon as possible.  We must extend this activity simultaneously and  equitably to the four great regions of the world con-  cerned - Africa, Asia, South'America and the Arab  countries, Unesco should issue a message of hope  to all the nations starved of culture, but at the same  time it should make an appeal for funds to the whoie  world, and to the United Nations in particular. For  we are under no illusion (for we too, can tot up  figures) that we shall he able to do everything with  the means - and even the extra-budgetary means,  however considerable - which are, or are to be  made, available to us, It is in view of all I have  said that we propose that the foundations be laid, in  the 1963-1964 programme for educational activity  which will continue for far longer than ten years,  The United Kingdom delegate has said that it took  centuries to make a gentleman, I agree, But the  same is true of a beautiful English lawn: and to  make that it needs a good gardener and à bad climate,  For our undertaking, the climate is just right - all  the new nations are thirsty for knowledge, As to  the gardener - Unesco - it has gained experience on  methods, on the intensive training of teachers for  the different levels of education, on educational  planning, on appointing inspectors, on publishing  books for new literates, and so on and it is experi-  menting - this is the “subject of a French proposal  which we supported - in the large-scale use of the  modern media of radio and television, Our gardener  is in a position to tackle forthwith the formidable  and urgent task awaiting him in so many newly-  independent countries.
16.18 The need for hundreds of millions of dollars  and 10 or 20 million teachers, indicated by the  Karachi, Beirut and Addis Ababa conferences, is no  initial discouragement, , We must think big, and we  must think quickly, We are living in a period in  which human society is developing rapidly. And we  realize every day that ignorance is the worst enemy  of freedom.
16.19  Notwithstanding’the divisions between men,  Unesco as the focus of technical organization equally  accessible to all, hag tlie duty, at this historical  moment of the rise of the "Third World", of elimina-  ting illiteracy from it and changing its face through  education, The aid must be: massive, unconditional,  without racial Prejudice, without ulterior motives,  given straightforwardly and in a spirit of complete  solidarity and human fraternity, and with the active  co-operation of the peoples and countries concerned,  whose dignity, great traditions and aspirations we  shall fully respect,
17. The PRESIDENT;  I call upon the Vice-President of the National  Commission for Unesco and Head of the delegation  of Austria, H.E, Dr, Frieberger.   PLENARY
18.1 Mr, FRIEBERGER (Austria) (Translation  from the French);  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian  delegation would like to pay tribute to the Director-  General of Unesco for his extremely lucid statement  covering the broad lines of the programme, We have  taken note of the intensification and concentration of  of the wide range of activities of our international  organization and their adaptation to new circumstances.
18.2 While thanking our distinguished Director-  General and his indefatigable Secretariat for their  efforts in organizing the eleventh session of the  General Conference, Austria fully supports the pro-  posals submitted by the delegate for Switzerland at  this morning's plenary meeting for the rationaliza-  tion of work, Our delegation hopes that the methods  proposed will facilitate the task of all the officials of  Unesco, who bear the responsibility for the rapid  progress of a world in which the hunger of millions  of our brothers and sisters overseas is equalled by  their thirst for education and culture,
18.3 As stated in the section on general considera-  tions, the new circumstances call primarily for  fundamental education, which is essential for all  nations. But there is a not easily discernable grada-  tion of civilizations throughout the world which  renders still more arduous the already difficult task  of allocating appropriate aid to every region. These  new circumstances demand, us was agreed by the  General Conference at its tenth session in resolution
52, a reasonable time-limit for preparing adequate  assistance.
18,4 However, despite the hard work of the  Unesco Secretariat, the political events of the past  few months have made the projects drawn up between  the tenth and eleventh sessions of the General Confer-  ence seem out-of-date,
18.5 Most of the problems relating to fundamental  education were familiar to Austria in the second half  of the Fighteenth century; our great Empress, Maria  Theresa, in a resolution addressed to the Court  Advisers, asserted that the State should take an inter-  est in education and consider it a political matter.  In obedience to her injunction, the Imperial Com-  mission for studies organized a universal system of  education ranging from primary school to university,  and this system was applied throughout an Empire  extending from the frontiers of Piedmont to  Transylvania, and from Silesia to the Turkish frontier,
18.6 Modern Austria, the fortunate heirto this  enlightened policy, has the liveliest understanding of  the aspirations of the young States recently welcomed  into the great family of our Organization. Austria,  ever ready to support them to the limit of its  capabilities, follows Uneaco's efforts to implement  its first Major Project with the keenest sympathy,  for the activities begun in Latin America eed to be  extended to many of the States of Africa and Asia.  The tasks to be tackled by the Unesco services call  for the maximum responsibility and the concentration  of activities - often criticized as being too dispersed -  on a field of action marking the threshold of a new  era,
18.7 The second Major Project, for research on  arid lands, is particularly noteworthy in view of iis  objective of making these vast areas exploitable and  fertile; and here, again, Austria has a part to play
255  MEETINGS xv  in research work. The large budgetary provisions  for arid land research should be coupled with those  for oceanography, for the exploration of the ocean
1s of supreme importance for increasing food sup-  plies and is hence, in the campaign against hunger,  a sacred duty from which no member of Unesco can  stand aside, |
18.8 As far as these two spheres of the Organiza-  tion's activity - arid zone and oceanographic re-  search - are particularly concerned, Austria, a  country with neither deserts nor a coastline, can  only participate indirectly, by sending scientific  experts.
18,9 The Austrian National Commission for  Unesco is taking steps to ensure a permanent link  between the work of the Unesco Headquarters and  local activities in'Austria, For example, the fifth  seminar on Education for International Understand-  ing organized for young teachers by the Unesco  Institute for Education was held in Austria, near  Vienna, from 23 August to 5 September 1959, with  the support of the National Commissions and the  financial and technical assistance of Unesco, The  participants studied theoretical and practical prob-  lems connected with education for international  understanding, with particular emphasis on educa-  tion dealing with the United Nations and the experi-  ence of associated schools, Details of the publica-  tions issued by the Austrian Commission are given  in our report, In addition, two groups of French  and Austrian historians last year began the systema-  tic elimination from the history textbooks used in  the secondary schools of the two countries of passages  prejudicial to thair mutual understanding, The two  groups finished their work in October.
18.10 With regard to the development of education  which seems to have become Unesco's main sphere  of activity, Austria can claim that its statesmen and  teachers were faced with very similar problems as  long as two centuries ago, and that they solved them  in an exemplary manner for the mighty empire which  then covered the whole Danubian area.
18.11 We now come to the problems of the third  Major Project, and in particular the question of how  far it will be possible to succeed in developing  closer and more fruitful relations between. the cul-  tures of the various peoples on the basis of exchanges  and respect for traditions, In Austria, the efforts  to promote greater understanding between East and  West have led to the launching in the capital and in  the Lander of a large-scale programme which is  being widely welcomed not only in the universities  but also among the general public. I might mention  here three seminars organized by the Austrian  National Commission - one on the Near East, held  last year; another to be held this year, on India and  the countries of the Middle East; arid the third, to  be held in 1961, on theatrical traditions in the Far  East, The normal duration of these seminars is a  week or so, and they are supplemented by exhibi-  tions of folk art and reproductions of famous works.
18.12 Austria is glad to note that the Unesco  reports already indicate a desire to make financial  means available to the National Commissions for  independent activities rather than set up, with an  excess of bureaucratic zeal a kind of World Ministry  of Education. Austria accordingly raised no objection   Xv PLENARY  to the higher budget ceiling proposed by the Director-  General, for as we see it, it implies the development  of rational co-ordination of activities in decentralized  form, We have already noted with admiring approval,  the announcements at this session by the United States  of America and the Federal Republic of Germany  offering to make considerable sums avallable so that  the wishes expre sed by the new States can be met,
18.13 World historical developments have hitherto  prevented language, religious and racial minorities  from being as fully taken into account in education as  was provided for in the Charter of Human Rights, in  line with the political and moral advancement of man-  kind, It i& true that a number of national laws and  international agreements existed before Unesco was  founded, for the application of the principle just  mentioned; but it was Unesco which opened the way  for a multilateral convention of truly universal scope  However, this charter should not involve derogation  from existing bilateral treaties, which offer satis-  factory solutions to the parties concerned,
18.14 As a further means of promoting the intellec-  tual rapprochement of national cultures, Unesco is  striving to place the achievements of audio-visual  techniques at the service of education, Austria has  pleasure in announcing in this connexion its intention  of establishing an audio-visual music centre in  Vienna attached to the International Music Council.  Conferences, working parties, courses, publications  and exhibitions, and the establishment of a library  for international use are also envisaged for the same  purpose; An international opera prize has been  instituted by the city of Salzburg, and the first award,  last year, was made to Paul Angerer for his work  ""paaskontrolle",
18.15 Nor should we forget the vital need of saving  particular cultures, either extinct or on the way to  extinction, from complete oblivion. Austria has  delegated an internationally-renowned expert to serve  Unesco in this connexion. Our Organization also  deserves praige for all it is doing to save great cul-  tural monuments of the past now threatened with  destruction by the demands of technological progress,  Austria has a very deep interest in safeguarding the  Nubian monuments as witness its important scientific  work and its Egyptological collections (I am more  specifically referring to the Art History Museum and  the Archduke Rainier papyrus collect!on) and in  response to the Unesco appeal intends to participate  more especially in research work undertaken in  connexion with excavations; This project will take  shape during the coming year.
18.16 .- This example of threatened monuments  strikingly illustrates the danger which modern techno-  logical needs imply for the vestiges of ancient civiliza-  tions. Austria, alive to this danger, has already  twice urged on this gathering the need to include  courses on the rudiments of cultural values in the  curricula - and especially the technical school  curricula - of all countries, Such courses are already  being successfully held in Austria,
18.17 The Austrian delegation particularly welcomes  the announcement by Mr. de Berredo Carneiro that the  History of the Scientific and Cultural Development of  Mankind will be available infull at the end of 1963.
18,18 With regard to the fine arts, Austria has  always tried to co-operate closely and effectively,  \ 256  MEETINGS  through the Austrian section of the Interhational  Assoclation of Plastic Arte, with thé Arts and  Letters Division of the Secretariat. We have notea  with pleasure that a volume in the "World Art"  series will be devoted to mural paintings and  mediaaval frescoes of the Austrian Tyrol.
18,19 In the summer of 1959 a seminar for Euro-  pean sculptors was held at St, Margarethen, in  Burgenland, every sculptor present producing a  work made of stone from the well-known local  quarries, The seminar with its illustrations of  plastic art, was very warmly velcomed by the  critics and the public,
18.20 Among Unesco's numerous and diverse  achievements, the Universal Copyright Convention  concluded in Geneva in 1852 is of world significance,  Austria, the fount of so many musical and literary  masterpieces, 1s extremely Interested in the acces-  sion to this Convention of an increasing number of  Member States of Unesco, and i8 convinced that the  new Member States would greatly benefit from the  advantages and the Convention's protection, particu-  larly as regards the plastic arts of West Africa and  the region's music which, based on folk music, has  already given birth'to individual masterpieces now  beginning to influence music in other parts of the  world. Iam sure that States like Austria, which  have never had colonies under their domination, will  find no difficulty in promoting the expansion of the  creative activity of the new nations in a spirit of  harmonious agreement and mutual protection,
18,21 We see a happy omen for future friendly co-  operation in the election of His Excellency the  Ethiopian Ambassador to the Presidency of the  General Conference, We welcome in him the dis-  tinguished representative of His Majesty the  Emperor of Ethiopia who, during his official visit  to Austria, deeply endeared himself to our people  by his thorough knowledge of our history and  traditions.
19. The PRESIDENT:
1 shall now call upon the representative of the  Organization of American States, Mr, Céspedes,  to address the Conference,
20.1 Mr, CESPEDES (Representative of the  Organization of American States) (Translation from  the Spanish):  Mr, Président, Mr, Director-General and fellow  delegates, as representative of the Organization of  American States, I bring to this gathering the cordial  good wishes of its Secretary-General, Dr. José A,  Mora, \ind of the Director of its Department of  Culturdy Affairs, Dr. Juan Marin.
20.2 “hey have examine the Proposed Programme  and Bud jet ol Unesco for 1961-1962 with the utmost  satisfaction, and are convinced that the programme  now beifg considered, enriched by the inspiration  provideliby this distinguished assembly, will become  an even more, perfect and effective instrument for  the ‘implementation of the general aims set forth in  Unesco's Constitution.
20,3 Tho Organization of American States is work-  ing on the regional isvel for objectives similar on  all points to those of Unesco. The American States  gave expression in the OAS Charter to that international   PLENARY MEETINGS Xv  organization developed by them in the course of half-  a-century "to achieve an order of peace and justice,  to promote their solidarity, to strengthen their  collaboration and to defend their sovereignty, thoir  territorial integrity and their independence. Within  tha United Nations system, the Organization of,  American States is a regional agency", Nothing is  more natural then, than that OAS should be repre-  sented at this gathering as on previous occasions,  Not only are the two organizations identical in their  aims and nature but they are united by strong bonds  forged by their effective co-operation in a series of  mutual activities,
20.4 The Organization of American States carries  out its programmes through it: Secretariat - the Pan  American Union - and the specialized organizations  of the inter-American system, namely, the Pan  American Institute of Geography and History, the  Inter-American Institute of Agricultural Sciences,  the Pan American Health Organization, the Inter-  American fitatistical Institute, the Inter-American  Indian Institute, the Inter-American Child Institute  and the Inter-American Commission of Women.
20,5 Within the structure of the Pan American  Union, the Department for Cultural Affairs is re-  sponsible for educational, scientific and cultural  activities,
20,6 Other departments of the Pan American Union  and other organs of the Organization are responsible  for such tasks as the maintenance of peace and the  promotion of economic and social development, In  view of the impossibility of giving a complete picture  of all the activities of OAS, I should like to mention  briefly the general aims of the Department of Cul-  tural Affairs, which are those most closely related  to Unesco's. .
20.7 Through its administrative units, i.e. the  Divisions of Education, Philosophy and Letters,  Scientific Development, Music and Visual Arts and  the Columbus Memorial Library, the Department of  Cultural Affairs is trying to carry out a programme  of co-operation with OAS Member States in imple-  menting cultural projects which will combine in  producing convergent results and definitely add to  the rich variety of types and forms of culture in  America.
20.8 The aim of the Pan American Union, in fact,  is to achieve unity in variety. Unity in basic alms:  peace, inter-American co- opération in the spheres  of law, social and economic justice, the development  of education, the subordination of technology to  humanistic values, and at the same time diversity in  specific achievements: the planning of action accord-  ing to the resources, possibilities and urgent require-  ments of the dittereht countries, its adaptation to the  standards of national historical traditions, and the  participation of different social groups in government  policy. OAS claims, on the same footing as other  international organizations to be the initiatory and  catalytic agent of this process. ’
20.9 The basic concern of OAS in education -  which coincides with one of the fundamental aims of  Unesco at the present time - is to promote educa-  tional planning in tha American countries, not only  in order to reduce tne illiteracy rate but also to  train the army of technologists, humanists and  auxiliary staff essential if the peoples are to advance
257  at the pace required at this stage of history, and  the Organization's Fellowship and Technical Co-  operation programmes are directed to those ends.  On the scientific level, OAS is implsmenting pro-  grammes designed to demonstrate to our peoples the  peaceful uses of atomic energy, In the social sciences,  OAS seeks to co-operate with Member States in the  work of elucidating the facts of their own anthropo-  logical, economic, political and ethnological exis-  tence. It is impossible for nations to get to know  themseives sufficiently, however, except through  an objective study of their cultural history and this  ia the task of the programmes devoted to philosophy  and letters, music, the visual arts and library  development,
20.10 Believing, asl do that words are best  illustrated by deéds I should like to mention some  of the activities in which OAS and Unesco have com-  bined their forces, As an example of a project  sponsored jointly by the two organizations, I should  like to mention the Inter-American Education  Seminars, the most recent of which was that on  overall educational planning held in Washington in
1958 with the enthusiastic participation of all the  American governments, The conclusions and  recommendations of this seminar and the Inter-  American course which was an immediate conse-  quence of it and which was held in Bogoté by the  OAS and Unesco with the co-operation of the  Government of Colombia gave impetus and guidance  to the organization of educational planning services  in the Latin American countries,
20.11 OAS was associated with Unesco in the  establishment of CREFAL, to which important  centre it continues to give its support and co-  operation, In the same way, Unesco is co-operating  with OAS through the medium of fellowships and ex-  perts, in the Inter-American Rural Education Centre  which OAS has been maintaining in Venezuela since
1954 with the backing of the Government of that  country. ;
20,12 OAS will participate, I may add, in the  Conference on Education and Economic and Social  Development in Latin America and will welcome  whole- heartedly Unesco's co-ôperation'in the meet-  ing of experts which it {s planned to hold on the  subject in 1962 and fn the forthcoming Inter-American  meeting of Ministers of Education,
20.13 I can also state that the development of the  Major Project on the Extension and Improvement of  Primary Education in Latin America, as well as  other activities relating to the social ‘and natural  sciences which Unesco sponsors or promotes in the  region, are of particular interest to OAS,
20.14 OAS has participated in several of these  activities, and in the cases of certain of them, such  as the Latin American Social Science Faculty  (#'LACSO) the Secretariat is now examining the  possibility of more intensive co-operation,
20,15 In the field of literature, an activity in  which such co-operation has also ylelded excellent  results is the Joint Progranime for the Translation  of Representative Works of Latin American Litera-  ture. The two organizations have collaborated  closely and in the most friendly spirit in the imple-  mentation of this project through their relevant  offices, In the past two years, OAS has arranged   Xv  for the printing ¢f the following publications: a selec-  tion of short stories by Baldomerd' Lillo ‘entitled  "The Devil'é Pit and Other Stories", ”"Meimoirs of  a Militia Sergeant’ by the Braéilian ‘rriter Manuel  Antonio de Almeida; and "Mama Blanca's Souvenirs"  by the Veneauelan writer Teresa de la Parra,
20,16 I should like to say in passing, that possiblli-  ties are now opening up before OAS for intensifying  its activity,” The present needs of the American .  peoples require - and the community of interests of  these peoples permits - the intensification of inter-  American co-operation in every sphere of action,  Within a few days; as the result of a decision recently  adopted in Bogoté, representatives of Member States  will be meeting for the purpose of bringing the inter-  American organs responsible for collaboration with  governments on these important questions into line  with the demands of economic and social development,  The co-ordination of the activity of these regional
258  PLENARY MEETINGS  bodies with the international organizations is one of :  the imperative needs of our time, Hence the import.  ance in all matters pertaining to education, science  and culture, of maintaining the relationship between  Unesco and OAS,
20,17 On behalf of the Secretary-General of OAS,
1 should like to express my fervent hope for the  success of this gathering for the future work of  Unesco and for increased co-operation between our  two organizations,  The PRESIDENT!  Before declaring the meeting adjourned may I, on  behalf of the delegates present, extsnd our thanks to  the interpreters for their excellent hard work during  today's meetings.
21,  Tha meeting rose at 6.40 p.m,