22 November 1960, at 10 50 a,m,  President: Mr Akale-Work ABTE-WOLD (Ethiopia)  CONTENTS  Adoption of the Second Report of the Administrative Com-  mission , . + + + 4 +4 4 +44 4 6 6 ee eee 0 187  General discussion of the reports of the Director-General  (continued) . . . 1 4 5 40 0 4 4 4 4 6 6 ee es 187  ADOPTION OF THE SECOND REPORT OF  THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  The President (Transjation from the French):
1 declare the twelfth plenary meeting open. Before  proceeding to a general discussion of the Director-  General's reports, I! call upon Mr. Dovey, Rapporteur  of the Administrative Commission.
2.1 Mr. DOVEY (United Kingdom), Rapporteur of  the Administrative Commission:  Mr. President, it is with pleasure that [ am able  to tell the Conferenwe that the reports of the Admini-  strative Commission are becoming more and more  brief. This latest one, document 11 C/42, consists  of one paragraph and one draft resolution, This is  not a record which the Commission will be able to  maintain indefinitely, but I am confident that the  Conference will be appreciative of the results so far.
2.2 The report deals with the right to vote of  Paraguay. The circumstances are very similar to  those of Honduras and Bolivia which were reported to  the General Conference last Friday, and the Com-  mission's recommendation as expressed in the draft  resolution ls similar to the one put forward for those  two countries. I have the honour, in the name of the  Commission, to commend the resolution to the  Conference,
3.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I now put the second report of the Administrative  Commission to the vote.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
3.2 The second report of the Administrative Com-  mission {8s adopted unanimously. The delegation of  Paraguay accordingly has the right to vote in plenary  meetings and in all the Commissions and Committees.  GENERAL DISCUSSION OF THE REPORTS OF  THE DIRECTOR.GENERAL (continued)
3.3 Ladies and gentlemen, we now come to the  general discussion. I would ask speakers to be brief
187  and to limit themselves to fifteen minutes, as recom-  mended by the Bureau of the Administrative Commis-  sion. As you know, we are already very much  behindhand and if speakers do not keep to this limita-  tion on the length of speeches, | may be obliged to  propose that we hold a night meeting.
3.4 1 first call upon Mr. Sattler, Head of the delega-  tion of the Federal Republic of Germany.  Mr. SATTLER (Federal Republic of Germany):  Mr. President, ladles and gentlemen, since its  foundation in 1946, Unesco has considered that its  paramount task is to contribute to understanding  among nations in the spheres of education, science  and culture. For the first time in the history of man-  kind an endeavour of this nature and scope has been  undertaken.
4,2 We know that many people were at first sceptical  as to the possibilities of its realization. As the  Director of the Department of Cultural Affairs in the  Federal Foreign Office, 1 now have for the first time  an opportunity to participate in the General Conference  of Unesco, and with your permission, Mr. President,  although you have just asked me to be as brief as  possible, 1 may take two minutes more to say what I,  as one who has come here for the first time, have  found. I must confess that my first reaction about the  family of Unesco was slightly sceptical, also, because
1 did not find a family in the sense of a family of only  a few people; I found here a crowd of people - many  nations, many people, many faces, and so many  problems, But I have found here, too, the spirit of  the family of men, 1 have found the opportunity to  talk, to collaborate and to gain the confidence of  representatives of other nations, including those whose  convictions differ widely from my own. This, it seems  to me, offers the only possibility of finding amon { the  nations a new basis for relations in the domains +f  education, the sciences and culture.
4,3 We in the Federal Republic of Germany are  particularly sensitive to and appreciative of the  importance of this common aim. During 12 years,  from 1933 to 1945, the German people experienced  the most tragic spiritual and moral crisis in their
4.1   Xu PLENARY MEETINGS  long history. We, who loved our country as the  country of Goethe and Beethoven, experienced the  tyranny of Hitler as a state of mental and moral  disease. We have overcome this disease - but  nothing could be more wrong than to belittle its  fearful character, not only for other people, but for  ourselves, If you ask me today which aspect of the  disease was most fearful, I would say to be compelled  to witness the injustice done to other peoples in the  name of my own people, without being able to inter-  vene; and to be unable to express my own conviction,  even within the circle of my family, without the risk  of grave danger to them, Even our small children  thus had to learn how to distinguish between what  they were told at school and what they were told by  thelr fathers and mothers.
4,4 From these experiences we know what it means  to live, to be forced to live, without freedom. Since
1945 we have endeavoured to overcome the remnants  of this disease. The German Ministers of Education -  we have 11 of them - are making every effort to  strengthen the sense of freedom in our schools and in  adult education, Means to this end are the revision  of textbooks, particularly in history and geography,  emphasis on political education, new teaching  methods and other measures. I may recall in this  connexion the constructive work of the School Book  Institute at Braunschweig which, so far as I know, is  the only institution of this kind. Its task, the continu-  ous supervision and revision of textbooks, 18 carried  on with the participation of many nations and with  international help, especially from the Asian and  Arab countries. It is a difficult job and we are  therefore grateful for all the help that Member States  can extend to us. I may add in this connexion that  we are glad that, implementing the suggestion of the  delegation of the Federal Republic of Germany the  programme of Unesco for 1961-1952 provides for a  number of sociological and psychological studies of  the attitude of young people towards the race problem.  The results of these investigations are to serve as  the basis for a seminar to be held in 1962 at the  Unesco Youth Institute at Gauting, near Munich, and  which we hope will prove useful for the work of youth  leaders. Within recent years, and this seems to me  a hopeful sign, we notice an increasing interest among  all strata of the German population, but particularly  among the young, in the frank and unshrinking repre-  sentation of the events of the Hitler régime, The  crimes of this régime are treated in literature, the  press and in films, and recently also in a special  series of television programmes which has just  started, It is to be hoped that all this will gradually  help to eliminate the shadows of the past that have  obscured our vision. At the same time, perhaps  precisely because we have learned to understand the  meaning of freedom and to recognize the debt we owe  to other nations, there is an increasing interest  within the Federal Republic in other nations, in co-  operating with them in the cultural sphere and in the  problems of development that many peoples face today.
4,5 Within the last two years the Federal Republic  has doubled the amount spent for cultural relations  abroad. In 1961, we shall be spending almost $30m.  for this purpose, twice as much as two years ago. At  the same time we shall, as the Federal Minister of  Economics has recently stated, be spending nearly ’
188  one billion dollars for development aid in 1961, a  sum that is to be raised by Federal and State taxes,  as well as by private initiative. Conversely, we are  glad to encounter an increasing interest in the Federal  Republic from abroad. Before the last world war  there were only about 6, 000 to 8,000 foreign students  studying within the territory of the Federal Republic.  Today about 30,000 young people from abroad are  receiving their professional education from us,  including university students and trainees in other  fields.
4.6 We are all convinced today how Indispensable it  is in our shrinking world to assist nations that, owing  to their industrial and economic structure, are unable  to cope with the protlems posed by the rapid Increase  of population. We know that such aid is not only a  moral responsibility of those nations that are econo-  mically more prosperous, it is very much in our own  self-interest. Such ald is most urgent for the young  nations of Tropical Afviva, because so far they have  received least. But the people of Asia and Latin  America must not be forgotten. Every one of us  gathered here will have the task of convincing the  public at home as well as their parliaments, that  economic aid is senseless without educational aid. I  want to underline this especially, because it seems  to me that it is really not only economie help that we  must give to our African, Asian and Latin American  friends, but also educational ald which Unesco is best  fitted to provide. I think that in the years ahead the  co-operation which we can achieve in these fields  will have an increasing influence upon the relations  among nations.
4.7 It is here that Unesco's rôle may be of the  greatest importance. ‘There will always be different  opinions and convictions in this world, and the most  precious good of humanity is its ability freely to  choose among these ideas. Man is free if he is free  to decide, free to choose what he wants to believe in.  There will always be different languages and cultures  that will meet with, and influence one another, but it  will and must be possible to approach different  convictions with respect. What we need most of all  is confidence and trust, and that we can achieve only  through personal contact - which ia one of the things
1 have found In these ten days here - and through  patience,
4.8 The Federal Republic of Germany, since it  became a member of Unesco, has endeavoured to  make increasingly known among the German people  the idea that we all belong to a great family of nations.  Much has been dore in this direction - institutes,  conferences, exhibitions, publications, study tours  have been arranged - and we are glad of it, but much  more remains to be done, 1 hope that the Director-  General during his recent visit to Germany may have  been able to see for himself how much alive is the  interest among our people in the cause and in the  work of Unesco,
4.9 We appreciate the work done by Unesco and its  entire staff during the last years and we want to  extend our thanks to every member of the Secretariat.  We have founded a German action committee for the  project to safeguard the monuments of ancient Nubia,  and we hope, with the consent of our Parliament, to  be able to raise in 1961 a considerable sum as our  special contribution to this project. Of course it is   PLENARY MEETINGS  understood that at the present General Conference  other Member States, especially the United Arab  Republic, the Soviet Union and others will reach  agreement regarding the realization of these plans,  The German Archaeological Institute, I might  mention, is especially interested in the Temple of  Kalabsha.
4,10 Within the field of education, the active and  equal participation of women seems to us of particular  importance, for the woman is the heart of the family.  We also consider that adult education should receive  a place within Unesco's programme commensurate  with its Importance in our present world, We  welcome particularly the new educational programme  for Africa which has been submitted to us within  recent days. The German delegation has already  pointed out that we hope confidently to make available
1,000,000 marks as a special contribution of the  Federal Republic for this supplementary programme.  If this plan meets the approval of the Conference, part  of our contribution could be made available immedi-  ately and the rest would follow next year. The  German delegation has already approved the increase  of the Regular budget, and you know already of the  very considerable increase in our contribution to the  Special Fund and Technical Assistance.
4.11 TI feel I should add a few critical remarks to  our general praise; may I make these three brief  remarks? First, in view of Unesco's gigantic task,  its resources are far too small, Secondly, our  Organization is too cumbersome in relation to these  resources, Thirdly, and most important, we must  be able to exclude from our work the political  questions that obsess and oppress us, My country  as you know faces such problems and deliberately  refrains from presenting them to this assembly,  Unless we In Unesco are willing and able to exclude  these political problems, we shall neither have the  time to do the business before us nor shall we be  able to create the climate of mutual understanding  and confidence without which we cannot hope to  succeed. Last, but not least, we shall do such  damage to the prestige of the work of Unesco outside  that it will be impossible to convince the parliaments  of our different countries of the importance of  increased support for our programme,
4.12 To sum up, the Federal Government is in  favour of the work and of the aims of Unesco. We  believe that we could make a substantial contribution  to this work not only In terms of money but even  more 80 in terms of ideas and of personnel, The  Federal Government welcomes the educational pro-  gramme for Tropical Africa but we are equally  interested in aiding Latin America, Asia and the  Arab world, countries and continents with which we  are linked by so many cultural tles.
4.13 May I close, Mr. President, with the words  written a century ago by a great Austrian writer,  Adalbert Stifter, that may perhaps serve as a motto  for the work of Unesco: "The word is stronger than  the slingshot and moderation will vanquish the world".  May God help us to further the work of our Organiza-  tion inthe spirit of these words.
5. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I now call upon H,E. Mr. Raadi, Head of the  delegation of Iran.  Xn
6.1- Mr. RAADI (Iran) (Translation from the French):  Mr. President, it is a great honour for me to  assoclate the delegation of Iran with the homage pald  by previous speakers to our distinguished ex-President,  to France, now receiving us for the seventh time in  the Ville Lumière, to the Executive Board, the  Director-General, the Secretariat and especially to  you, Mr, President, whose election to this supreme  office is a sincere proof of the respect and affection  in which we hold your great country and the African  continent.
6.2 In asking you to accept the warm congratulations  of my country, whose friendly relations with yours go  back to ancient times, may I be allowed to add my  own, for I remember with pride that ! had the honour  of being entrusted with the first Unesco mission to  Ethiopia in 1950, for the purpose of preparing the  way for the admission of your country to membership  of Unesco and its co-operation with our Organization.
6.3 It was on that occasion that I had the pleasure  of making your acquaintance and undertaking with  you, in your then capacity as Deputy Minister of  Education, the first negotiations.
6.4 1 shall never forget the wise words pronounced  at that time by His Majesty the Emperor Halle  Selassie when he granted me an audience; he said:  "Having conducted great political and military  campaigns for the independence of my country, I  have come to the conclusion that real independence  is won in the field of economie and social progress."
6.5 This statement by a revered champion of  independence is a source of inspiration for all  countries that are achieving freedom in the political  field.
6.6 We extend a cordial welcome to the delegations  of the new Member States, to Kuwait, a friend and a  - neighbour of ours, and the many African States
189  which, by subscribing to the Constitution of Unesco,  have strengthened the universal character of our  Organization.
6.7 While the first half of this century was marked  by the awakening of Asia, the second is placed under  the eign of Africa. May 1 be allowed to greet that  great continent by offering it a posy gathered in the  garden of Persian poetry: "This is but the firat pale  light of dawn; awalt, the sun of thy happiness will  rise.
6.8 When we study the Director-General's reports  on the Organization's activities over the past two  years, we note with satisfaction that a considerable  proportion of the programme adopted has been put  into effect, thanks to the combined efforts of the  Secretariat, the Executive Board, Member States  and non-governmental organizations,
6.9 Let us therefore be thankful to the Executive  Board, and to the Director-General and his staff, who,  facing difficulties without flinching, have ensured the  implementation of the programme with wisdom and  flexibility.
6.10 With a promptitude forced upon them by cir-  cumstances, they have not hesitated to take  courageous and praiseworthy measures to save the  monuments of Nubia and to provide, within the frame-  work of the civilian operations, the educational  assistance urgently required in the Congo.
6.11 With regard to the proposed programme and  budget, may I be allowed to make a few comments.   Xn PLENARY
1 would crave the assembly's indulgence in taxing  its patience a few minutes longer, especially as,  while fully appreciating the Executive Board's  recommendation concerning a time-limit for  opeeches, I consider that the States which are  members of the Board have had many opportunities  to voice their opinion on the general policy and pro-  gramme of the Organization, whereas this present  general discussion is the only occasion on which  States which are not members of the Executive Board  can express their views. They should therefore be  treated more indulgently, as was indeed the case  yesterday.
6.12 With regard to the budget figure, the Confer-  ence will recall that a few days ago, during the  discussion of the provisional budget ceiling, the  delegation of Iran, although in favour of the principle  of ralsing it, adopted a reserved attitude for the time  being by abstaining and explaining why.
6.13 I am happy to be able to state today that the  further instructions which we were awaiting have  since arrived and that my delegation now falls into  line with the 63 delegations which have already  voted for the increase proposed and approved.
6.14 As regards the proposed programme itself,  subject to certain remarks which we shall make in  the Commissions and the working parties, we  consider that the chapters on education, natural  sciences, social sciences and cuitural activities are  satisfactorily drawn up and, apart from a few  details, well thought out.
6.15 When listening to the Director-General's  introduction to the proposed programme and budget,  we very much appreciated his remark that care  should always be taken to maintain a balance from  several points of view in preparing the programme -  a balance between stabllity and evolution, a balance  between the various chapters of the programme, and  a balance in the amount of assistance which certain  regions should receive,
6.16 In noting this declaration, we hope that,  neither in theory nor in practice, will the real needs  of any area of work, region or country be sacrificed  to those of others.
6.17 We rejoice to see that, in accordance with  the desire expressed at previous sessions of the  Conference by the Iranian delegation and several  others, it is proposed to increase efforts and funds  conslderably in the fields of education and scientific  research. The plans for the extension and improve-  ment of education in Africa, the Arab States and Asla  will, I am sure, be received with much enthusiasm  in those areas. My Government declares itself  willing to assist in the implementation of the project  for Asia and very much hopes that it will soon be  raised to the status of a major project, in view of  the vast requirements of that fmmense continent,  It 1s an undeniable fact that, in the less advanced  areas of the world, international assistance in the  field of education, although considerable, has at  present only a stimulating effect. Moreover, the  resources of national budgets are so limited that  unless the various communities and municipalities  participate to a considerable extent in the govern-  ment's expenditure and efforts - and the ways in  which they can do so, adapted to local circumstances,  should be studied, compared, worked out and  MEETINGS
190  advocated by Unesco - the extension of education to  the entire population will not become a reality for  several decades, despite the urgency of the problem.
1 should like to point out in this connexion that, in  Iran, although nearly 30% of the national budget {8  set aside for education, an experiment is now being  carried out on the lines I have just indicated.
6.18 For in any campaign against illiteracy, it ia  noi enough to assess requirements or give symbolical  aid; first and foremost, the most effective methods  of removing this scourge as quickly as possible must  be applied, During the current and previous sessions  of the Conference, we have be: happy to learn that,  throughoat the vast area of the viet Union, and in  certain other countries such as Rumania and Mexico,  increasingly swift progress is being achieved in  rendering large populailons literate. Impressive  figures have been quoted. It would be an excellent  thing if, in addition to the figures of results achieved,  the methods used in those countries could be com-  municated in detail to areas which are still fighting  against illiteracy. :
6.19 Would it be possible for these countries to  invite a few Unesco experts to study on the spot the  methods employed and the basic factors explaining  the success achieved, and subsequently to communi-  cate the results of their inquiries to the other  countries concerned through the intermediary of the  Organization?
6.20 The duration of the Major Project on Scientific  Research on Arid Lands should be prolonged by at  least four years as from 1962, so that the countries  concerned can derive maximum advantage from the  work done.
6.21 Those responsible for the Major Project on  Mutual Appreciation of Eastern and Western Cultural  Values are making cautious progress and ary wisely  consolidating the basis for its later development,  The main lines of future action are being worked out  as the project moves forward and methods are being  improved. For various reasons, which I shall  enlarge upon later, {t is a matter of urgency that this  project should be extended to Tropical Africa,  Incidentally, I am particularly happy to announce  that an excellent opportunity has arisen for my  country to make a larger contribution to this project,  since the 26th centenary of the foundation of the State  of Iran ta shortly to be celebrated, Ever since 1958,  special committees set up in Teheran have been  working out an extensive programme with a view to  providing the world in general with information on  the various aspects and typical features of Iranian  civilization and its relations with other civilizations  over the past 25 centuries,
6.22 Many Eastern and Western countries, aware  of the beneficial effects which this programme can  havo on the Major Project on Mutual Appreciation of  Eastern and Western Cultural Values, have either  set up - or are about to do so ~ national committees  to take part in this event at the cultural level, I  should lil:e to take this opportunity of thanking them  and asking the General Conference to consider draft  resolution 11 C/DR.63 Rev,, dated 16 November,  which I have had the honour of presenting.
6.23 As its Chairman has just stated, the Execulive  Board, conscious of {ts responsibilities, both for  direct action and for providing advice, with regard   PLENARY  to general policy and the execution and preparation  of the Organization's programme, intends to submit  to the General Conference, at its next session,  certain recommendations for increasing the efficiency  of the work of the Board, the Secretariat and the  General Conference,
6.24 In this connexion, and whilst congratulating  the Board and its distinguished Chairman on this  welcome step, we would venture to make a modest  contribution by the following suggestions and obser-  vations. They may not have the good fortune to meet  with approval from all of you, they may give rise to  controversy and be received with reservations.  Nevertheless, where the highest interests of the  Organization are concerned, it is sometimes neces-  sary not to spare feelings and, indeed, to face  unpopularity without fear.
6.25 So far as the General Conference is concerned,  it might be well to consider the desirability of its  meeting every three or four years instead of every  two, since, as most of the projents are long-term  ones, it would be easier to assess results or to alter  policy at the end of a longer period. Moreover, the  preparation of sessions of the General Conference  always puts extra work on the Secretariat and the  Executive Board, which, in the interests of the  smooth execution of the programme, should be  avoided as far as possible.
6.26 I may add that, apart from the heavy costs of  sessions, most of the remoter or less prosperous  countries find serious difficulty, often passed over  in silence, in providing funds at short intervals for  the travel expenses of a large enough delegation of  good people, Unesco might, on the other hand,  follow the example of the United Nations and bear  the travelling expenses of some delegates, at least  for certain categories of countries. It goes without  saying that the adoption of a system of triennial or  quadrennial sessions would necessitate taking  appropriate measures. The Executive Board might,  for instance, be authorized to act on behalf of the  Conference, between sessions, with regard to  certain matters such as the admission of new  members, the conclusion of new agreements or the  study and approval of interim reports and  programmes,
6.27 This suggestion should not disturb the  numerous supporters of a periodical increase in  Unesco's budgets, with whom I have always made  common cause; for, if exceptional circumstances  were to necessitate such an increase between  ordinary sessions, recourse could be had either to  extraordinary sessions of the General Conference  (which cost less) or to the Working Capital Fund,  subject to later approval by the Conference.
6.28 Moreover, if action were taken on the sug-  gestion which I had the honour to make at the ninth  plenary meeting on 19 November, during the dis-  cussion on the budget ceiling, all cause for disquiet  would be removed, since the adoption of the principle  of regular and automatic increases in the budgat,  combined with the establishment of an " Emergency  Fund" would provide, in advance, a double guarantee  that the Organization's activities would develvp  normally and that it would be able to take immediate  action in exceptional circumstances.
6.29 In the second place, there are various  MEETINGS
191  Xn  arguments, on which 1 shall not enlarge for the  moment, in favour of holding the Conference in the  spring. ‘This change of seaaon offers several  advantages without entailing any insuperable  difficulties,
6.30 In the case of the Executive Board, although  we are not against a slight increase in the member-  ship, we are convinced that enlargement would  merely be a palliative, and would be liable to make  the Board's machinery unwieldy and to reduce its  efficiency, unless a strict rotation system were  applied, combined with an equitable distribution of  seats between clearly defined cultural regions and  within each such region, .
6,31 How could the rotation recommended by the  Constitution be observed if, in addition to the perma-  nent representation of the four major powers on the  Board - which, though not provided for in the Consti-  tution, is sanctioned, admittediy, purely by a well-  established tradition - a number of other countries  attempted to perpetuate or prolong their presence  there?
6.32 Finally, how can the Executive Board become  a true reflection of the various cultures and the  various branches of learning, 1f some are over-  represented by a number of countries, sometimes  adjacent to one another, with the same language,  civilization and traditions, whilst other cultures,  despite their special features and importance are  virtually excluded?
6.33 À simple analysis of document 11 C/INF/6  suffices to show how far the membership of the  Executive Board, at present as in the past, falls  short of meeting the criteria so clearly laid down  in the Constitution.
6.34 The rôle of the Executive Board ts, from day  to day, becoming so decisive in the life of the  Organization that we can no longer content ourselves  with some sort of formal statement in the Nominations  Committee, on the eve of the elections, in support of  those criteria, without seeking some effective means  of seeing that they are respected at the time of the  ballot,
6.35 The General Conference, the Executive Board  and the Director-General would therefore render a  great service to Unesco if, without delay, they were  to make a competent and impartial group responsible  tor studying and proposing methods to provide all possible  guarantees of balanced representation and efficiency  in the procedure for nominations and elections to the  Executive Board, subject to the conditions prescribed  by the Constitution. Otherwise, neither the member-  ship nor the work of this vital organ of our agency  can be kept free of the growing Influence - and how  dangerous it is - of emotional factors, spontaneous  coalitions and passing political phases.
6.36 With regard to the preparation of the pro-  gramme and budget, it is true that the Director-  General consults all Member States thereon and  gives consideration to all their observations and  suggestions, particularly in the initial stages. But  it is no less true that In practice suggestions and  requests from States which are members of the  Board receive special attention, if not a degree of  favour, particularly as, during the later stages,  they may be taken up again, reintroduced, defended  and further defended by the representatives of those   Xn PLENARY  .  States in that body. And I wonder whether this state .  of affairs has not some connexion with the insistence  of certain countries on securing a semi-permanent  seat, to the detriment of the prinsiple of rotation.
6.37 At all events, it seems to me that logically  we must either, in the preparation of the programme,  abandon these general conaultations which fail to  produce the same treatment for all, or else, in the  interests of equity and a balanced programme, seek  a satisfactory solution to the problem. At the appro-  priate time, we shall be ready and prepared to offer  suggestions in this connexion.
6.38 À further question worthy of careful consider-  ation fo whether it would not be wiser to reduce the  length of the term of office of members of the Exe-  cutive Board from four to three, or two years, as  in the past.
6.39 Such a measure would have the advantage of  accelerating the process of rotation and of avoiding  a series of disproportionate enlargements of the  Board, despite the steady increase in the number  of Unesco's Member States.
6.40 Aa for the Secretariat, I shall only mention  one point for the moment. The new system of geo-  graphical distribution of Secretariat pos;s appears  to us to be just 88 far and even farther than the old  ‘one from being fair, realistic and efficient, For  the two systems are both based on the inadmissible  criterion of the amount of contributions, as if  Unesco were a joint stock company. Yet the Organi-  zatlon's real efficiency is dependent upon the extent  of its universality, The more qualified nationals of  less advanced countries there are in the Secretariat,  the better the Ideas and activities of Unesco wil be  spread into those countries and, reciprocally, the  more will be known of their culture and educational  systems within the Secretariat. Only thus can  Uneaco fulfil ite real function.
6.41 As a result of a proposal which I submitted in
1958 and which the Executive Board adopted, the old  system was beginning to be changed and Improved.  This proposal was that a percentage, not to exceed  half the posts in the Secretariat, should be distri-  buted among Member States on an equal basis, the  rest being dependent upon the amount of contributions,  We were greatly surprised to note that, In the new  system, this compromise improvement had been  completely eliminated.
6.42 Mr. Director-General, aware as I am of your  desire for balance and fairness, I should like to  make an urgent appeal on behalf of the small  countries and ask you to reconsider the new system  or, at least, re-establish the old one in its latest  form.
6.43 There was once a man who dreamt that he  was being given money, but that it was all In small  change. He protested and asked for gold coins  Awaking with a start, he found that he had nothing  at all in his hand So he closed his eyes again and,  stretching out his hand, sald: “An welll at least  glve me back the small change."
6.44 The recent establishment of the International  Development Associntion and the Inter-American  Development Bank should be greeted with immense  joy, in the hope that these two organizations will  soon make a veluable contribution to the cause of  economic and social progress.  MEETINGS
6 45 We warmly congratulate the Director-General  and the Deputy Director-General for having immedi-  ately entered into fruitful negotiations with these  two organizations and laid the foundations of collabo-  ration between them and Unesco.
6.46 But we should like and earnestly recommend  the Director-General to make a further approach to  the International Development Association and try to  persuade it to finance, not only projects in the fleld  of technical education as agreed, but also, as the  Inter-American Development Bank does, those deal-  ing with general education at all levels and with  soclal and natural sciences. For all these fields  are closely interrelated from the point of view of  economic and social development, and the exclusion  of one must inevitably have an adverse effect on the  others.
6.47 To return once again to a suggestion which I  made on another occasion, I think it would be as well  if the Director-General and the Executive Board  explored the possibilities of obtaining a loan for  Unesco itself, under Article 5, Section 2, paragraph  C of the Articles of Agreement of the Internaticnal  Development Association, in order to finance certain  important and urgent projects.
6.48 The facilities granted by tnese organizations  and those available under the Technical Assistance  and Special Fund programmes all furnish proof of  appreciable progress in the field of international  aasistance.
6.49 Nevertheless, the peoples of the world are  impatiently awaiting the day when, than%s to general  disarmament, supervised by the United Nations,  enormous financial resources will be freed and  devoted to the financing of a gigantic world plan of  economic and soclal progress.
6.50 That being so, how can we fail to deplore the  slowness of discussions on this supremely important  problem, which go on interminably while the stocks  of weapons accumulate, the funds are swallowed up,  and the population of the world increases, threatened  by famine and poverty? :
6.51 According to certain religious customs, those  who persist in committing a sin must pay a certain  sum to charity, And 1 wonder if, following this  example, the great powers should not be obliged to  pay, by way of a fine, a substantial tax in proportion  to the amount they devote to armaments, to a world  fund for economic and social progress, go long as  they do not come to an agreement about disarmament.  Perhaps such a measure would lead them to speed  up the search foi common ground, providing that  they did not twist it to mean that by paying this  ransom they could go on disagreeing with an easy  consclence.
6.52 All the peoples of the world sincerely want  and demand peace. But it is often forgotten that the  same psychological and moral laws upon which the  happiness of an ordinary family depends also govern  the life of the great family of nations.
6.53 We all know by experience that in a household  it is only possible to reach agreement by making  mutual concessions, and through mutual confidence,  understanding and courtesy among the individuals  who live under the same roof. Otherwise not only  the parents but also the children end in a state of  unhappiness. How, then, can the rising generation   PLENARY  be brought up to love humanity and speed up the  advent of universal péace, when thé nations and  governments who are seeking it Wistrust, spy on,  accuse, insult and threaten one another?
6,54 In a world where minds aré shrouded in the  darkness of group and individual vanities, nobody  can claim to see clearly, Seven hundred years ago,  one of our great thinkers told the story of a group  of persons who ventured through curiosity into a  very dark room where an elephant was shut up,  Since none of them could see the elephant, each  member of the group tried to distinguish its shape by  touching it, bit each could touch only a small part of  that enormous bodÿ. The discussion then began In  the darkness. One thought the elephant was shaped  like a column, another like a trunk, a third like a  large leather bag, and so on,
6.55 Thus, amidst the blindness of this century,  whenever we hear diametrically opposed definitions  or interpretations of the words Peace, Liberty,  Democracy and Justice, we should remember the  story of the elephant and share the sadness of Hafiz  de Chiraz, when he satd: " Be not amazed at the  conflicts between nations: Not having perceived the  truth, they chose fanciful conceptions."
6.56 Mr. President, my dear colleagues, once  again I apologize for having overtaxed your patience  and would like is finish on an optimistic note by  echoing certain comfrting statements made yestur-  day by the Heads of the delegations of the United  States of America and the Union of Soviet Sooialist  Republics, who, making a gesture of friendship,  spoke of the possibility of fruitful co-operation,  even under present conditions, in the fields of educa-  tion, science and culture. In welcoming this cheerful  prospect, I cannot resist the temptation to indulge in  another quotation and recall the message of hope of  another Poralan poet:  "The world tomorrow would be a smiling face  If all the peoples, helping one another, walked  hand in hand."
7.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French);  I should 1lke to thank Mr. Raadi for his kind words  about my country and myself.
7.2 I would ask speakers to be brief, otherwise we  may be obliged to hold a night meeting. Nine speakers  were down to speak this morning and only two have  spoken so far.
7,3 I call upon H.E. Sir David Eccles, Head of the  delegation of trie United Kingdom.
8.1 Sir David ECCLES (United Kingdom):  Mr. President, it is a very great privilege to  address the eleventh session of the General Confer-  ence, and to add, on behalf of Her Majesty's Govern-  ment in the United Kingdom, the warmest greetings  to our new members.
8.2 Last week we heard some fine speeches from  these new members, and two phrases still echo in  my mind. First, a statement from the representa-  tive of Ruanda Urundi, "tous les visiteurs de
1'Afriqué" he said " sont frappés par la soif de  connaissance de ses habitants”. That is indeed true,  anyone who goes to that awakening continent ig over-  whelmed by the burning intensity of their thirat for  education. And one asks, " What can one do for all  MEETINGS XII  these people in Africa?" Then there comes to mind  that thrice repeated call: " Tanganyika needs  teachers",
8.3 ‘These demands are not confined to Africa, they  are world wide. And which of us hora can say that  in our country we have enough teachers? Fvery  Minister of Education, north, south, east and west,  knows he Is responsible for many childrén who cannot  yet receive the kind of education that would fully  develop their talents and porsonalitios. But, my …  friends, if everywhere we can find growing shortages  of teachers and of schools, in some countries these  shortages are far more desperate than in others. I.  would say that the wide differences {n thé provision  of education are the greatest and the' most dangérous  of all international inequalities, Foi so long as  these inequalities persist, the gap in the living stan-  dards between the old industrial countries and the  less developed countries must inevitably grow wider.
8.4 And so I would like to put just çne thought and  one question before this General Conference, In the  whole of Unesco! s fleld of operétions, the world's  greatest need is for more and better primary and  secondary schools, and we are not davoting nearly  enough of our resources to meet that need. If you  agree with that, is this Organization today, adequately  staïfed and equipped to give the minimum of help  which the world expects of us in the field of education?  On the problem of our own capacity to act with vigour,  what is one to say about the effectiveness of this  General Conference itself? Aa far es I can see, this  Conference is the prisoner of a pidgramme which  has already been prepared with much care by the  Setretariat and the Executive Board, 1 do not see the  point of spending so much time doing again work which  has been well done, especially when the programme  itself has had to be planned to come into operation  immediately, and therefore can only be changed at  the fringes. And s0 I would support the Executive  Board as the body which should review the programme  in detail,
8.5 Sitting at home, at my desk,‘ in London, I have  in the last year very often grumbled that Sir Ben '  Bowen Thomas, one of my most visluable officials,  has been 80 often absent on the business of Unesco.  But I must say, although I knew he was doing a good  job, I had no idea until I came hére to Paris what the  Executive Board has done for all ¥f us in these last  two years, and I should like to thunk them very much  on behalf of my Government. In my opinion, the rôle  of the General Conference should be quite distinct  from that of the Executive Board. As Mr, Cals, the  representative of the Netherlands told us yesterday,  our business here is long-term policy. We should be  thinking about the strategy for 1953 and the years  - beyond, and I am confident that our very able Directur-  General would welcome firm guidance on where we  want this Organization to go, end what we consider  to be tif? directions in which an uxpansion of our work  is now most desirable,
8.6 But, my friends, we have to be practical; we  have to admit that we cannot expsind in all directions  at once. Unesco has very little money. As 1  ventured to tell the Conference during our debate on  the budget, the British Government alone spends  $30,000,000 a year on education outside the United  Kingdom, Yet though one government, the United
193   XII PLENARY  Kingdom Government, le spending double Unesco's  entire budget, whet we are doing in the United  Kingdom does not meet even a tiny fraction of the  ueeds of the Commonwealth territories alone,  France, as Mr, Jullen Cain told us, finds a similar  experience with her overseas territories, now so  many of them independent and members here,  Therefore it is not at all difficult to understand why  many outside observers cbnsider Uneaco's contri-  bution in the field of education insignificant and  quite out of scale with the alma of our Charter,
8.7 Let me say that to find more resources for  education, we should not cut out anything important  that we have been doing or have decided to do in
1961-1962, though I fully agree with Señor Garcia  Mina, the Spanish Minister of Education, that con-  centration !s necessary in quite a number of  directions.
8.8 But I do insist that since we now have a little  more money, we should take the greatest care to  uxpand our operations in the field where the world  demand {8 most urgent.
8.9 1 wish to say quite bluntly, that the United  Nations as a whole have failed to appreciate how  fundamental and intense is the world's demand for  primary and secondary education, eapecially in the  less developed countries, Take for example, the  recent debate in New York of the Second Committee  of the General Assembly on the subject of economic  aid from the industrial countries to the less  developed countries, Speaker after speaker repre-  senting the lesa developed countries pointed out thai  the rich nations were getting richer faster than the  less developed nations, with the result that year by  year the gap between the living standards of the two  groups was growing wider, Every man who believes  in the United Nations desires to see this gap narrowed.  But what measures were proposed at the General  Assembly? In that Second Committee only half the  answer to the problem was given, for the remedies  they proposed were all economic remedies. Almost  everyone in the committee spoke as if money,  dollars and pounds and so on, were all that was  needed, Some speakers auked that the industrial  nations should provide this money by paying higher  and more stable prices for primary products.  Others insisted upon an increase in loans and grants-  in-aid to the development programmes of fhe poorer  nations. Our very good friend, Mr. B.K, Nehru  from India, called for $7,000 m. of aid a year, I  shall return to his figure of $7,000 m. in a minute  or two, First I wish to ask the delegates, do they  really believe that money alone will close this  widening gap in living standards, or do they agree  with my delegation that financial help in the form of  cash, credits, loans fs only half the answer and the  other half can only be supplied by Unesco or by  other organizations working in the field of education?  Surely this is the truth, the real cause for the  widening of the gap is not so much lack of foreign  capital as lack of technologists, technicians and  other trained manpower, first to make good use of  that foreign capital, and secondly, and far more  important, to enable the emerging peoples to create  their own supply of capital, In my judgement most  of the speakers in New York had got their priorities  wrong.
8,10 First, let us ask curselves how fast can any  nation progress without a growing number of civil  servants, administrators of all kinds, doctors,  teachers, engineers, business managers, and so on?  And i8 it not a fact that the supply of auch trained  experts depends more than anything else upon the  number and quality of the secondary schools?
8.11 You cannot give a child a good enough educa-  tion in a primary school to become a sclentist or an  engineer, and you cannot equip a student to profit Ly  a university course unless that student has spent  five years or more in a good secondary school,  Mr. President, it is quite useless to talk about  making an unbalanced economy viable or to talk  about making any nation capable of sustained  prcgress when you have not laid the foundation in the  primary and secondary school,
8.12 I have the impression that some of the older  industrialized countriés find it difficult to conceive  the intensity of the hunger for basic public education  in Asia, Africa and, as the distingulshed representa-  tive from Peru reminded us, in South America too.  We in Europe, in the United States and in the old  Commonwealth, have taken centuries to educate  ourselves in the art of self-government and business  management, Cur systems of education have grown  slowly, and although they are not adequate to our  needs, there has been at least some correspondence  hetween the advance of science and technology and  the improvement in our State schools and in our  universities. The advance of education, in other  words, has been broad enough to allow the ordinary  citizen to participate in the astonishing age of  material progress in which we live,
8.13 In Asia and Africa, it has just not been  possible for such a gradual build up to take place.  There the revolutionary discoveries of sclence and  technology imported from the West have broken the  mculd of society. And as a result the time-table for  finding new forms of government has been reduced  in such a brutal manner that the provision of more  and better primary and secondary schools becomes  the paramount necessity for their further progress  and, perhaps, even for their survival as independent  nations.
8.14 I give you but one example. If we reflect  upon what is happening in the Congo and look for the  fundamental reason for all the confusion and the  conflict, may it not be that the people of the Congo  have desiréd and have obtained self-government  without having enjoyed adequate preparation through  primary and secondary schools and universities? 1  must at once point out, indeed every honourable  delegate here knows it, that in the short time since  science and technology began to break up the old  patterns of soclety, it has been physically impos-  sible - impossible in terms of trained manpower -  for the colonial powers to establish systems of  universal public education for the millions of people  who as the result of Western medicine, Wastern  science, have increased in numbers by leaps and  bounds. Yesterday the delegate of the Soviet Union  confirmed this when he stated that in the Aslan  Soviet Socialist Republics now only 1 child in 3 goes  to a secondary school - a straight confirmation of  the difficulties that we have had in many of the  countries for whom we have been responsible, The   PLENARY  United Kingdom has done à great deal to prepare our  territories for self-government; we wish nothing  better than that they ghould be self-governing, but  we are not prepared to seek cheap popularity by  bringing them to that point before they themselves  feel ready. Now in spite of what we have done and  what we are now doing on an ever increasing scale =  we are very glad to hear of the help that 1s coming  from Germany - we cannot by ourselves meet all  the needs of these territories, Such facts as these  and the similar demands for education in all the less  developed countries, which have been expressed  here with such great urgency, constitute a colossal,  inescapable challenge to this Organization,
8.15 Mr, President, I do not believe that Unesco  is yet properly and effectively organized for this  task. At present more money doep not seem to me  ta be our chief n~ed; essentially this is a problem  of manpower, of recruiting the right experts here  at headquarters and for work in the field’on the plan-  ning of expanding systems of education. To choose  the right priorities is very difficult and it requires  in the Secretariat able men of wide expevience In  education. It also requires that the governments of  the countries to whom they belong should be willing  to release them. May I say here to those who want  to see the Secretariat geographically balanced - and  I quite sympathize with their view - that at this  momeat they may do well to think that the all too  few experts In certain member countries are more  needed at home than they are here, and that it is the  duty of those of us who have had longer to train our  experts to supply these people, The day will come,  and I hope very soon, when there will be a sufficient  number of experts for all the Member States of the  United Nations to put forward good candidates for  all posts. But let us be practical and face the fact  that the day has not yet come.
8.16 Iventure to say that the Secretariat is  seriously overloaded with work, and one can deal  with an overload in two ways; either by cutting  down the work or by engaging more staff of the right  calibre, I think we should be prepared to consider  action in both directions, and I would like to see  this Conference appoint a small high powered  committee, or perhaps entrust the matter to the  Executive Board, to see how we could free the  Director-General and his top officials from some  part of the burden of minutlae which they carry  today, 1 hope the Conference may be led to agree  that a reorganization of this kind is of the utmost  importance if I may return, in my concluding  remarks, to the volume of the resources which the  members of the United Nations ought to provide for  education,
8.17 The representative of India, in the Second  Committee, in referring to the amount of economic  and financial aid which should be provided each year,  set the figure at 7,000 million dollars. That sum  would be none too much, but perhaps it is safer and  more realistic to take as the figure $5,000 m, Then,  what proportion of that sum ought to be spent on  improving the systems of basic education in the  receiving countries? Let us take as our measure  the proportion of their national budgets which those  countries now spend on education, and apply that  proportion to the aid which they should receive from  MEETINGS
195  Xu  overseas, If 1 sald 10% was what ought to be spent  on education out of international aid, I think nearly  every delegate here would say the figure was too  low. But then 10% of 5,000 million dollars would be
500 million dollars each year, as compared with the  six million or seven million dollars which is all  that we can afford out of Unesco! s budget,
8.18 The members of the United Nations should  take cognizance of this need; they ought to insist  that something much more like 10% of their total  aid should he spent on education, And I would like  this Conference to send a very strong message to  the Secretary-General in New York, requesting him  to put before the General Assembly our view that  much greater attention should be pald to education  by those who are concerned wita the giving and  receiving of international aid, 1 would like to express  to Mr, Hammarskjold the human advantages of giving  ald to educational projects. But do not let us forget  that the transfer of monsy from one country to  another does not give any guarantee that those  countries will be better friends, Let us not forget  that when a receiving country has not the trained  manpower to operate the capital programmes  financed with the aid, this unpreparedness can lead  to a terrible waste of money. And finally let us not  forget that the transfer of money from one country  to another will, if there is no widespread system of  public education in the receiving country, lead to a  few people in that country getting richer while the  ignorant masses remain poor. Thus financial aid  can be a great engineer of class divisions.
8.19 Let us contrast those disadvantages, those  dangers, with the benefits of education. Education  makes friends, you cannot teach without learning  something yourself, There is always in the field of  education a two-way movement of ideas and of  understanding, Education heals class divisions and  creates a capacity for men and nations to stand on  their own feet. This is the direction in which my  delegation hopes Unesco will grow. ‘
8.20 The United Kingdom Government has had some  experience in this field, Recently we have estab-  lished, in partnership with all the Commonwealth, a  new system of mutual aid in education and we are  - helping each other multilaterally to provide teachers  and training facilities. If this experience is  considered of use to Unesco, we will gladly give the  Organization all the information it requests.
8.21 These then are my three propositions. First,  Unesco should expand its work in the educational  field with particular regard to the need for more and  better secondary education in the less developed  countries. Secondly, Unesco should inform the  Secretary-General of the United Nations of our urgent  desire that. 5: ch more attention be paid to education  when ald to underdeveloped. countries 18 under dis-  cussion. Thirdly, that Unesco's own organization  requires to be strengthened and the overload of work  on the Secretariat reduced. Now if those three aims  could be accepted and acted upon, I am confident the  eleventh session of the Conference would long be  remembered.
8.22 Today Unesco has it in its power to become :  far better known and far better appreciated than ever  before. Millions and millions of people know that  WHO stands for health, that ILO stands for labour   XI PLENARY MEETINGS  relations, that FAO stands for food and agriculture,  They don't quite know what we stand for, Ard if we  want Unesco to be known and supported in the same  direct, heartfelt way, we must stand for education.  I do not, of course, forget science and culture. But  to enjoy science and culture, man must first be  educated, and Unesco must recognize that priority.  My delegation, then, wants Unesco to become the  world's chief adviser on nducational systems, a  sort of architect or engineer of the plans of expand-  ing education, who will be called in by all those who  have need of such expert advice, And the more  successful we are in this rôle, the sooner science  and culture could spread across the world, and the  sooner that gap could be closed between the old  industrial richer nations and the leas developed and  only temporarily poorer nations. That is the object  for which I plead today.
9.1 'The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Ladies and gentlemen, it will advance the work uf  the General Conference if I now call upon HE, Mr.  de Berredo Carneiro, Chairman of the International  Commission for a History of the Scientific and  Cultural Development of Mankind, I therefore ask  Their Excellencies Mr, Ralea, Head of the Rumanian  delegation, Mr. Zanko, Head of the Yugoslav  delegation and Mr, Furukaki, Head of the Japanese  delegation to waive their turn to speak in favour of  Mr. Carneiro.
9.2 I think everybody is In agreement, and I thank  those who were down to speak for having given way.
10.1 Mr. de BERRFEDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  (Translation from the French):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, may I  first of all thank my colleagues for their courteous  gesture, This afternoon I have to take an active  part in the proceedings of the Commission for a  History of the Scientific and Cultural Development  of Mankind. I am therefore extremely grateful to  them for having allowed me to precede them in the  debate this morning, for I could not have spoken  this afternoon.
10.2 Two major events have occurred since the  last session of the General Conference,which open  up new and promising prospects for Unesco. First  of all, the unanimous adoption by the General  Assembly of the United Nations in 1959 of a resolu-  tion on general and complete disarmament. Then  again, this year, the attainment of independence by  nearly all the African countries still subject to the  colonial system,
10.3 Both of these great events deserve to be  unanimously welcomed here,
10.4 Let us first of all consider the problem of  disarraament. A permanent state of cold war, due  to the terror inspired by the atriking force of either  side, is not likely to ensure for humanity the  physical and mor! balance which it 50 vitally needs,
10.5 Unesco should strive unremittingly for a true  peace based on a profound intellectual and moral  recovery, Any effort in this direction will, of  course, cost à great deal, since the entire popu-  lation of the globe will have to be provided with the  necessary education at all levels. But how much  less costly will such an undertaking be in the long  run, when compared to the ever increasing and  utterly wasteful expenditure required by modern  armaments.
10.6 In an appeal addressed to the United Nations  at the opening meeting of the present session of the  General Assembly, the Brazilian Foreign Minister,  Mr. Horacio Lafer, earnestly requested that  military expenditure be reduced with utmost speed  to a strict minimum so that the funds released could  be used to raise the cultural and social level of al)  the peoples of the world. The immense sums thus  gradually made avallable should be paid, by mutual  agreement, Into an international fund, managed by  the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies, for  the conduct of a campaign against ignorance and  poverty.
10.7 The importance of the resolution unanimously  adopted by the United Nations in October 1959 did  not escape the Executive Board, which in turn unani-  mously adopted a similar resolution, bearing of  course only on Uñesco's activities. .
10.8 The proposition submitted by my colleagues -  Mr. El Fasi and Sir David Eccles '* nnd myself was  the subject of detailed discussion and was unanimously  approved item by item, and I might almost say word  by word.
10.9 What did the Executive Board ask of the  Director-General? Essentl:lly two things: first,  that he should continue to take all appropriate  measures to bring about the formation, in all Member  States, of a climate of opinion favourable to the  achievement of the objects of the United Nations  resolution. Is it not up to Unesco to create this  atmosphere of confidence? The preamble to the  Unesco Constitution is perfectly clear on this point  and states "That a peace based exclusively upon the  political and economic arrangements of governments  would not be a peace which could secure the unanimous,  lasting and sincere support of the peoples of the  world, and that the peace must therefore be founded,  if it is not to fail, upon the intellectual and moral  solidarity of mankind," What ie this intellectual  and moral solidarity of mankind if it is not the very  basis of this atmosphere of confidence which {a  essential if disarmament is to bring about a real  peace? It {8 not asking Unesco to exceed the limits  of its competence to ask it not to remain indifferent,  not to remain neutral, with regard to this major  problem which faces the world today.
10,10 Secondly, in the resolution which it adopted  unanimously, the Executive Board requested the  Director-General to submit to it, as soon as the  United Nations had achieved agreement on general  and complete disarmament under effective inter-  national control, a report on measures which might  be adopted by Unesco within its field of responsibility  to collaborate with the United Nations in the fmple-  mentation of the agreement. The draft resolution of  the Executive Board therefore providea for two  stages: one which can and ought to be started on  immediately - i.e. the creation of this atmosphere  favourable to disarmament, which is the preliminary  stage; then, at the right moment, when agreement  has at last been reached in the United Nations, a  second stage consisting of information and reports.  I am sorry that the Director-General and the
196   PLENARY  Conference have not seen fit to {nclude an analysis  of this problem and an open debate on the subject in  the agenda, We gain nothing by being frightened of  words, particularly when the words are essentially  inspired by love. To talk of peace, everywhere and  always, must be one of the basic tasks of Unesco,  I do not believe that we can evade this duty, and I  would like to see the Director-General himself  taking the initiative as often as possible. Unesco  cannot shut itself up in an ivory tower: there are  too many winds, both good and bad, blowing from  all quarters; we cannot simply listen to the bene-  . volent voices of the past promising us a happier  future, without fearing that our oft-time stormy  debates may hamper the implementation 0! joint  plans for the salvation of the human race.
10.11 Mr. President, there 1s another reason for  rejoliing at this eleventh session nf the General  Conference of Unesco: that is the presence amongst  us of the continent of Africa which you yourself so  worthily represent and which we greet with affection  and respect, By receiving into its fold so many  newly independent countries, Unesco is taking  another step forward towards universility, extending  its field of activities to a whole new continent and  taking on responsibilities which impose vast obliga-  tions upon it. These young Member States will, for  their part, revive its energy and keep it for a long  time on the alert, attentive to their needs, anxious  to promote their well-being and prosperity, and  ready to increase means of action in order better to  justify the confidence which they have just shown it.
10.12 Africa, which was probably the cradle of  mankind, encloses in its savannahs the most ancient  examples of our species, going back perhaps some
20 million years. Negro Africa possesses the finest  and most prolific rupestrian works of art known,  and the whole of Tropical Africa is a vast museum  of religious statuary. The terra cottas of the town  of Ife, capital of the ancient kingdom of Yoruba,  are comparable in all respects with the finest  specimens of classical sculpture. If we add to these  admirable forms of visual art, the musical wealth  of Africa as a whole, its genius for dancing, its  legends and fables, and its profound religious  instinct, we shall be able to assess this continent  at {ts true worth,
10.13 After centuries of the greatest liardships,  all these creative gifts are still intact. Is not this  African miracle just as moving and just as fine as  that of Greece? First cf all, it is a miracle  morally, since hatred has not entered into the  incessant strivings after freedom; but it fs an  intellectual miracle too, for the traditional cultures  have managed to survive the emotional shocks  caused by the breakdown of social and religious  systems, without losing an ounce of their sensitivity  or their wealth of imagination, their natural galety,  and the artistic instinct which is characteristic of  them, The peoples of Africa at the present time  show nearly all the signs of an astonishinX political  maturity, keen understanding of the problems of  our time and a magnificent spirit of solidarity and.  _international understanding. We therefore count on  them, on you, the delegates of these young Member  States, to ensure that the proceedings here are  conducted more and more in this constructive and  MEETINGS Xn
187  human atmosphere which ought always to be that of  Unesco, .
10,14 Mr, President, I should have liked to devote  a few moments to examining, if only briefly, certain  aspects of Unesco's programme. The results  obtained and future prospects, as described by the  Director-General in his reports and in the remark-  able introductory speech which he made the other  day, would have made it possible In such an analysis  to measure all the admirable achievements due to  the efforts made over the past two years.
10,15 As it is, however, allow me simply, In  turning the pages of my notes, to raise a few points  on which, unfortunately, I shall not have time to  dwell,
10,16 Congratulations to the Director-General on  having at last carried out the inquiries which we  were all awaiting on the educational needs of Tropical  Africa, Asla and the Arab Staves aiid on having shown  us, with figures in support, that 100 ([mililon children  in that vast Afro-Asian \vorld have no schools, no  teachers and no future. Thank you, Mr. Director-  General, for having pointed out that, during the  meetings which were held at Addis Ababa, Cairo,  Beirut and Karachi, experts from those areas  suggested what measures could be taken to remedy -  if that is possible - such a terrible situation,
10.17 Everywhere, the work of the Ur:esco Secre-  tariat has testified to firmness and continuity, The  old projects, begun almost at the same time as the  Organization was founded, continue to expand, Iam  thinking of CREFAL in Mexico and your personal  approach, Mr. Director-General, to Mr. Torres  Bodet with a view to smoothing out the difficulties  and opening up new vistas for this training centre  for primary school teachers destined to continue the  fight against illiteracy.
10.18 In the scientific field, I may perhaps be  allowed to emphasize the importance of the establish-  ment of the International Brain Research Organization -  an event that all we scientists have been awaiting for  a long time, shocked and scandalized by the fact that  the prime mover of human conduct, both individual  and collective, should not have been the subject of  the sort of large-scale research which can only be  undertaken, these days, on a basis of international  co-operation,
10.19 An admirable report on trends in scientific  research, drawn up by Professor Auger, former  Director of the Department of Natural Sciences, to  whom we have owed so much in the past, will be  submitted for comments and analysis to a special  committee of the present Conference.
10.20 I would merely point out that, having read it  and learnt a great deai from it, I am certain that  the Conference will derive great benefit from it.
10.21 As regards the arid zones, which are a  matter of concern to about two-thirds of the human  race - such is the extent o! the corrective work to  be done on this land which is withering and dying in  many places - you are also proposing practical plans  and solutions to us. The meeting which waa held in  Paris and gave the Secretariat guidance, taking past  experience into account, justifies us in hoping that  this project will not disappear from the list of  Uneaco's activities. It should even be developed  and extended to include new plans for research in   Xu PLENARY  other areas of the world, designed to meet needs  which are being more and more keenly felt.
10.22 The results achieved in work done outside  North Africa and South Asia will facilitate similar  research which could be undertaken in Australia,  Latin America and many other areas suffering from  the same scourge. It may be necessary to call on  resources outside the Unesco budget, but, for a  problem of this nature, which is essentially an  economic one, 1 am convinced that the United Nations  will give us valuable aid,
10.23 In the social sciences, the harvest 1s no less  fine, Here, I shall allude only to the two teaching  and research centres - one in Santiago de Chile and  the other in Brazil - which have been progressively  developed in South America, In this sphere, we are  perhaps still feeling our way, and the Secretarlat  has often found itself in difficulties when faced by  one problem or another. It may be that we have not  yet exploited all the possibilities in these two insti-  tutions, but considerable progress has been made,  and we hope that the financial and technical assist-  ance which Unesco has already given to these two  institutions will not be diminished in the near future.  We hope above all that the slight difference - which  is unfortunate in my opinion, as I have already  stated jn the Executive Board - between the financial  assistance granted to the Santiago Faculty and that  granted to the Rio de Janeiro Centre will disappear  without leaving any trace,
10,24 In the field of exchange of persons, we  particularly appreciate the increase in the number  of fellowships and the efforts made by the Unesco  Secretariat to widen the field of study covered by  fellowships,- whether in the arts, sciences,  literature or technical subjects. What has been  done under the Latin American Major Project and  since consolidated is truly worthy of attention and  praise.
10,25 If you will excuse the length of my speech,  Mr. President, I shall say a little more about this  Major Project which Unesco has devoted to the  problem of extending and improving the standard of  primary education in Latin America. This project  was recently the subject of a meeting held in Mexico,  when a whole series of suggestions were drawn up  and embodied in reports which the Director-General  has submitted to us; it was syj7">led, for Instance,  that the membership of the A¢/?litry Committee be  increased from twelve to twenty-one members, and  that an inter-American fund be established, so as  to make it possible to meet the enormous needs of  this region in the field concerned,
10.26 We have just heard from a highly authori-  tative source a few remarks concerning the inade-  quacy of financial resources set aside for education,  I use the word inadequacy in the same sense as the  distinguished speaker who preceded me: I mean  that it 18 not enough merely to have financiel  resources in order to ensure a good standard of  education. Nevertheless, perhaps if wc compare  the magnitude of needs with the resources available,  in Latin America as well as in Asla and Africa, we  shall attach greater importance to the financial  aspect of the problem, I am not in a position to  make a detailed analysis. May I simply remind you  that, for the Latin American continent with its 200
198  MEETINGS  million inhabitants, there are from 10 to 20 million  children of achool age who have no schools. When  we consider that a minimum of education costs $40  a year per child, we can easily calculate the huge  sums required not only for investment in school  bulldings and equipment but also for the annual  financing of the teaching profession, which will, in  any case, have to be increased enormously in num-  bers, Latin Araerica does not think it has the right  to ask for international ald for this purpose; it  considers that this world-wide problem must be  solved at the universal level and is ready to support  everything that can be done to solve similar  problams in Asia and Africa. But as a result of  experience in its own territory, it can already  perhaps provide the baels of an assessment worthy  of being taken {nto consideration by the Secretariat  and the various Member States,
10.27 We shall probably require 3,500 million  dollars for investment in school buildings, and 2,000  million dollars per year for a period of ten to fifteen  years if we are to banish illiteracy from our continent,
10,28 The Constitution of Unesco was the work of  the Western countries; its guiding principles were  laid down by a group of ministers meeting in London  during the war. And the whole of this Constitution,  which was neither written nor even suggested by the  underdeveloped countries, reflects concern to solve  the problems of what are now known as the "uncom-  mitted nations''. At the very beginning, it is stated  that it behoves the nations to assist in the advance-  ment of education, and that this is a sacred duty fer  every ore of them,
10,29 Perhaps the West ought to recognize that it  is largely responsible for the distressing state in  which Asia, Africa and Latin America find them-  selves today. It is not for me to ask you to examine  your consciences, but I would refer you to Father  Lebret, a Dominican priest, who, in a remarkable  book entitled La survie ou la mort de l'Occident,  shows how many errors there are to be righted and  efforts to be made. Three times In succession,  since 1870, the West has been the scene of massacres,  and for one hundred years colonial rule has exhausted  the resources of distant lands without providing them  with even a fair share of what-was taken from them.  It is therefore only right that the Western powers  should realize that they must restore to those  countries a maximum of what they have taken away -  with the often staunch collaboration of the inhabitants.  And it is important that this moral and intellectual  appeasement should be atcompanied by a maximum  amount of ald, because it fs also in the West that the  major source of conflicts - the clash between the  ideologies of the Socialist and capital countries -  originated,
10,30 Think indulgently of those countries which  have worked for centuries without obtaining practi-  cally any of the advantages of that civilization which  is yours. But consider, too, that time moves fast,  that we cannot wait any longer, and that although  from many points of view we in Africa, Latin  America and Asia are at the sume stage of progress  as you were in the 16th century, we cannot wait 400  years to reach the level which you have attained today.
10.31 Mr. President, a number of specifically  Latin American projects have been submitted to you   PLENARY  by the delegation of Brazil. One of these has to do  with the sefting up of a Physics Centre for Training  and Research, and the other requests the Conference  to consider the immense damage suffered in tropical  areas by books, manuscripts and archives and to do  its utmost, by every means at its disposal, to ensure  the establishment of a Regional Institute of Book  Restoration, which would protect some of the richest  treasures of the intellectual heritage of mankind,  Special committees will deal with this matter, 1  merely wanted to point out what store we set by  your support of these projects." 7
10,32 I should have liked, Mr, President, though
1 shall refrain from doing so, to dwell for a moment  on certain problems which concern the very existence  of Unesco, Allow me just to touch lightly on this  matter. You have before you a proposal from the  Brazilian Government concerning the procedure for  the examination and approval of our Organization's  programme and budget. This 1s an extremely  serious question, which I beg you to ponder serfously.  When the General Conference is considering the  programme submitted to it, it must not be the  prisoner either of the Secretariat or of the Executive  Board. It is itself the sovereign authority; the  Executive Board and the Secretariat can carry out  only those tasks which it entrusts to them, It is not  for the 24 countries represented on the Executive  Board to take upon themselves responsibilities which  in fact belong to the 97 or 98 States we already  number. The General Conference, which brings  here its experts, its educationists and iis scientists,  must give detailed consideration to the proposed  programme that it finances, and must be able at any  time, if necessary, to make amendments, improve-  ments, additions or deletions; but it must not  renounce its right to examine, as a whole, those  projects which the previous Conference has, for  speclous legal reasons, split up into resolutions and  work plans; our Constitution neither acknowledges  nor prescribes any such division. Read It, and you  will find throughout that it is the duty of the Execu-  tive, Board and the Director-General to present the  programmes of work to the Conference, and that the  latter has to take a decision on them.
16.33 We have alrendy been reminded that the  Executive Board may shortly have its membership  increased by two, May I say that we view this  constant increase in the Board!s membership with  some anxiety, because we fear that its size may  prevent it from working really efficiently, and also  that its sessions may grow longer and longer, which  would be unacceptable to most of the members.
10.34 How can we cope with this situation where  we have 98 or 100 Member States and an Executive  Board with a limited membership? The Government  of Brazil suggests two possibilities: firstly, that  the Executive Board be subject, without restriction  or exception, to a principle of rotation. There is  no reason why a few Member States, because of |  their wealth or political importance, should be  permanently represented on such a body as Unesco's  Executive Board, which is not the Security Council  of the United Nations and to which each of us should  have the opportunity of contributing the characteristic  colour and tone of our own regional culture.  Secondly, as the Board is now merely the representa-  MEETINGS  tive of a minority of Member States - since its  members no longer represent the General Confer-  ence, but their individual governments and are at  all times subject to instructions transmitted to them  along invisible wires - as the Board ia so constituted  and the choice of prominent figures which you make  here no longer means very much {since many of  them regularly hesitate to take the slightest decision  pending the arrival of instructions by telegram), we  consider that the functions and powers of the Board  should be limited to the role prescribed in the  Constitution.
10,35 Mr. President, allow me to say that the few  reservations and oriticlsms which I have made do  not in the least detract from the feeling of gratitude  of my country and my people for this admirable  Organization, nor from our feeling of gratitude  towards the Director-General and the Secretariat,  for whose nobility and devotion no praise can ever  be sufficient; Unesco today spreads everywhere.  You cannot go anywhere without finding, by the side  of the flag of the United Nations, the symbols of  education, science and culture which are ours.
10.36 Unesco is perhaps the only organization  today in which all religions, races, peoples and  {ideologies are fused together, and this privilege of  ours {8 at the same time our strength and the main  justification for our existence, Many speeches are  made here and many hopes expressed; it is not  always possible to transform into reality what we  dream of doing. Allow me to close with the words  from the First Epistle General of St. John: " Let  us not love in word, neither in tongue; but in deed,  and in truth."  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H.E, Mr. Ralea, Head of the  Rumanian delegation,
12.1 Mr. RALEA (Rumania) (Translation from  the French):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, this is the  second time running that the General Conference of  our Organization has met in Paris, at Unesco House.  On behalf of the delegation of the Rumanian People's  Republic, I therefore seize this opportunity to greet  the French people and to thank the French Govern-  ment for ita traditional hospitality. It ls a good  omen that our Conference should be taking place on  French soil, for once again we are gathered together  in a city which symbolizes not only beauty and intelli-  gence but also a splendid progressive tradition. I  therefore hope *hat, in this city of Paris, rich in  history and human conquests, the proceedings of the  eleventh session of the General Conference will not  merely be a cold, cut and dried series of reports  and proposals, but that a new spirit will inspire our
199  debates and make the resolutions which we adopt  truly effective.
12.2 Before expressing our delegation's views on  the Organization's activities and programmes,  allow me to draw attention to the special circum-  stances surrounding this eleventh session of the  General Conference, which is taking place at an  historical moment of great importance in this  changing world, Even's rich in consequences have  occurred recently. I would remind you that the   Xn  independence of several States which have recently  entered a new phase of their existence is a fact of  revolutionary importance. On behalf of the Rumanian  people, I address a warm welcome to these new  Member States of the United Nations, which either  are, or will be, members of Unesco and will, we  are quite sure, make a valuable contribution to the  work of the Organization.
12.3 This eleventh session of the General Confer-  ence therefore begins {ts proceedings with the hope  of increasing the prestige and efficiency of Unesco  throughout the world. Unfortunately, I can only note,  to my profound regret, that the universality of  Unesco is atill limited, owing to the absence of  countries which have a great message for  civilization,
12.4 We all know about the age old culture of China,  European and world civilization have been influenced  and shaped by three great ancient cultures - those  of Greece, India and China. The philosophy,  literature, visual arts, -music and many inventions  of these countries have had a great influence on our  culture. How can we overlook all that in an organi-  zation whose main task is to spread culture?
12,5 The only true representatives of the Chinese  people are not among us, Other States whose  humanist and democratic spirit is the outcome of a  permanent tradition are also excluded, I am think-  ing of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea,  the Mongolian People's Republic, the Democratic  Republic of Viet-Nam, and {!,e German Democratic  Republic. The Constitution of the German Demo-  cratic Republic includes, as a prime aim, the  " education of youth for peaceful and friendly coexist-  ence among peoples, in a spirit of true democracy  and sincere love of humanity," The law on educa-  tion which was promulgated on 12 November 1959  contains the following gulding principle: " The,  development of the human personality through  general education and a {raining conducive to love of  peace and friendship between peoples and rejection  of hatred, militarism, colonialism and Fascism."
12.6 In Western Germany, on the other hand,  various institutions such as that for research on the  East or the ‘Office for Psychological Warfare",  millions of pamphlets and books ~ "Hitler loved us  so much" or " Crusade for the West" - reviews and  youth organizations sworn to revenge exist every-  where, and incite the people to war, Fascism and  raclalism. And yet Democratic Germany is not with  us, whereas Federal Germany h&s been elected to  serve on our Executive Board.
12.7 No doubt these barriers and deficiencies will  soon disappear. If Unesco wants to go forward, it  should take into account the fact that, in a changing  world such as ours, its first task is to adapt its  structure and activities to present-day requirements,  to grasp the importance of great contemporary prob-  lems, and to contribute as much as it can to their  solution, It should do away with all prejudices and  without any hesitation, boldly tackle the paramount  problem of our times - the securing of peaceful  coexistence, understanding between peoples, a  better knowledge of each other's lives and Inter-  national co-operation through education, science  and culture.
12.8 We muet reject all laxity and resolutely set  PLENARY MEETINGS
200  our course for peace and humanism, freedom and  the material and spiritual advancement of the  peoples of the world, And, to do this, we must  analyse the achievements of our Organization, but  also its shortcomings. We have heard with great  interest the Director-General’ s Reports on Unesco's  Activities In 1958 and 1959 and tho first eight months  of 1960, We have studied the Proposed Programme  and Budget for 1961-1962, which the General Confer-  ence is required to discuss and adopt. Unesco has  clearly accomplished, and intends to accomplish,  many more tasks than it had ever dreamed of ten or  even five years ago, Thanks to its leaders and to  the enthusiastic help given by many Member States,  {ts activities have Increased in scope and efficlency  and its prestige has been enhanced throughout the  world, We also warmly welcome the decision taken  by the Executive Board at its 55th session in  connexion with Unesco's contribution to the work of  the United Nations for general and complete  disarmament. .
12.9 We rejoice that certain problems, formerly  absent from Unesco's programme, take a leading  place in it today. Unfortunately, the vote of the  General Conference has ruled out a discussion of the  disarmament problem. ’rhe attention given to higher  education, sporting activities, and the mutual recog-  nition of the cultural values of countries widely  differing from one another all show that the programme  is moving in the right direction. But the chief reason  for our meeting here is to improve the present and  future activities of the Organization, And to do this  I cannot think of any better method than to discuss  Unesco's deficiencies and suggest appropriate  remedies,
12,10 The Rumanian delegation considers that,  despite the decision adopted by the Executive Board  at its 55th session, the present and future activities  of Unesco are not yet sufficiently focused on the  major problems of the contemporary world - those  of general and complete disarmament and of peaceful  coexistence, Let us be quite clear on this foint; it  is not a question of how many times the words "peace"  "disarmament" and "peaceful coexistence" occur in  Unesco's documents and programmes, Itis a  question of whether and to what extent Unesco is  grappling successfully with the most important  problems of our times. In our opinion, Unesco and  its activities are still not facing up to reality. Many:  of the activities and draft resolut{ons which we shall  be discussing deal with secondary matters as com-  pared with the burning problems of the present day.  Let no one reply that disarmament and peace are  political matters which only concern the United  Nations. We all know that there is not and can never  be a "pure" culture, divorced from time and history,  from day-to-day events and human interests. Unesco  should not of course concern itself with the technical  aspect of disarmament; but it should do everything  possible to create the moral and spiritual climate  required if millions of men are to be imbued with a  peaceful and constructive outlook. The preamble to  the Constitution itself bears this out; it declares  that: "wars begin in the minds of men" and that "it  is in the minds of men that the defences of peace  must be constructed” ,
12.11 Yet, in this connexion, Unesco, both now and   PLENARY MEETINGS  in the past, has only embarked timidly on certain  activities which, alas, are mostly of a theoretical  nature, It behoves Unesco, the greatest cultural  organization {n the world, to inculcate and spread  humanism, love of peace, anti-chauvinism and anti-  Fascism,
12.12 So far as Rumania is concerned, it has under-  taken to pursue a policy in favour of general educa-  tion in the name of humanity and peace. All our acti-  vities bear the stamp of this policy, from the work  of our National Commission to the proposals made  by our Government in the United Nations.
12,13 Unfortunately, Unesco is still subject to  influences which militate against the attainment of  this noble purpose. Peace and human, social,  material and moral progress can be secured only on  the basis of the aclentific and humanist conceptions  which represent the finest achievements of our age,  But if you will look at the Director-General's report  or the proposed programme, you will still find that  special attention is given to the myths and traditions  of primitive or ancient civilizations, and problems  which are of minor interest only to the cause of peace  and the welfare of mankind; you will also find that  there 18 a marked concern for everything which is a  manifestation of the missionary spirit, itself an  aspect of colonialism,
12,14 But it is not by means of mystic organizations  or symposia on the good influence of mystical con-  cepts that it will be possible to banish illiteracy and  initiate men in the secrets of science, thereby  enriching them and enabling them to make their own  happiness, We believe, therefore, that Unesco  should be gulded in all its activities by the scientific  spirit of this day and age; otherwise it will be in  danger of becoming an anachronism and of encoura-  ging colonialist policy. These are the ideals which  we should like to see inspiring all the activities of  our Organization.
12,15 Secondly, may I be allowed to point out that  the universality of Unesco and its impact throughout  the world are far from satisfactory; there are at  least three reasons for this. First of all, Unesco  cannot hope to be universal unless it collaborates  with every nation in the world, representing the  interests of all peoples and turning their several  contributions to good account, Cannot the African  countries which have recently attained their indep-  endence benefit by Unesco's help and, in return,  make their own particular contribution to the common  heritage? I think that a self-evident truth should be  emphasized: Unesco must really become a universal  organization and gather together, for the material  and spiritual well-being of us all, the living forces  of millions of men working all over the world.
12.16 Secondly, if the universal character of  Unesco is not to be an illusion, I consider that  Member States should be fairly represented in the  management and executive bodies of the Organization.  But the present situation is by no means satisfactory:  out of the 367 senior officials of the Secretariat,
296 - or 82% - belong to Western countries, 50 -
19.5% - to neutral countries and 21 - or 5.5% - to  the Socialist countries. Out of the 24 Member States  which have seats on the Executive Board, 13 - or
67% - are capitalist countries, 9 - or 25% - neutral  countries, and only 2 Socialist countries. Out of the
201  Xn  four members of the Directorate, three belong to the  West and one to the neutral countries, and there is  not a single Assistant Director-General from a  Socialist country.
12,17 In this connexion, the proposal made by the  Soviet delegation concerning the organization of the  Administration, which I consider very fair, ought to  be taken into consideration.
12,18 Thirdly, the universal character of Uneacols  also diminished by the policy of discrimination which  the Director-General has adopted towards certain  great International non-governmental organizations;  these organizations, owing to the impressive number  of their members and their work in the cause of  democratic and peaceful ideas, are fully entitled to  benefit by consultative arrangements with Unesco.
12.19 If we were asked today whose activities are  more useful to Unesco and its programme, those of  the International Union of Students or those of the  International Falcon Movement, those of the Inter-  national Radio and Television Organization or those  of the Soroptimist International Association, I am  sure that all of us would vote in favour of the great  democratic organizations. And yet the fact {s that  the Falcons and the Soroptimists have consultative  status, and the others not.
12.20 The Rumanian delegation considers that this  policy cf discrimination against certain international  non-governmental organizations is inadmissible and  submits the question to the General Conference at this  eleventh session; we are certain that the Conference  will take a realistic view and a decision consonant  with the true objectives of Unesco.
12.21 Another of our basic objections concerns the  working methods of the Organization, though that  does not mean that we are denying its achievements,  which have been considerable, Bureaucracy is rife  in Unesco. The 15% reduction in expenditure is  welcome; there are too many reports, too many  commitiees, too many officials and experts, and too  much money and energy wasted on trying to find out  how to do things rather than what to do. We are by  no means opposed to expenditure for useful and  justified purposes, but we cannot agree to budgetary  increases for minor or administrative activities.
12.22 We were very impressed yesterday by the  speech of the Peruvian delegate, In Latin America,
50 million human beings are dying of hunger, millions  of illiterate children have no schools, and the most  terrible epidemics are raging; and we talk about  putting up another Unesco building or maintaining a  horde of officlals, many of whom are useleas!
12.23 We consider that instead of a whole series of  minor activities which eat up the budget, Unesco's  attention should be devoted first of all to a widespread  programme of education for youth in mutual under-  standing, international co-operation and peace. In  this connexion, the Rumanian delegation has drawn  up a draft resolution on the education of youth, which  was submitted to the Secretariat within the prescribed  time-limit. We propose the holding of an inter-  national conference on the democratic education of  young people. At the request of the Rumanian Gov-  ernment, this proposal was included in the agenda of  the General Assembly of the United Nations.
12.24 Secondly, considerable assistance should be  given to the Member States of Africa and Asia In the   Xn PLENARY  field of primary and secondary education; a million  dollars would not be enough for this purpose,
12.26 Thirdly, we ask that more attention be given  and more money allocated to scientific research,
12.26 Fourthly, we request that regional activities  be organized to encourage and increase cultural and  scientific exchanges and to stimulate co-operation  and good understanding between the peoples of a  given region, The Rumanian National Commission  proposes to organize a symposium on this subject,  in 1861, dealing with the Balkan civilizations, We  are convinced that all the Balkan peoples will respond  to this appeal, ;
12.27 Fifthly, we should like experts sent on  mission by Unesco to assist in the implementation of  the Organization's projects and help to affirm the  scientific and progressive ideas of the contemporary  world, as stipulated in the United Nationa Charter  and Unesco's Constitution.
12.28 Sixthly, we request that Unesco's publications  policy be reviewed in the light of present-day require-  ments - a humanistic education, the progress of  science, and the placing of culture at the service of  the peoples of the world and of peace,
12.20 Before concluding, I should like to say a  word about the activities of the Rumanian National  Commission. | shall not repeat the facts and figures  given in the report which was submitted by Rumania  for 1959 and 1960, I shall merely point out that,  since 1858, the Rumanian National Commission has  tried to render increasing service to the major aims  of the Organization, Two international meetings held  in Bucharest - the Symposium on Romance Studies in
1959 and the Seminar on Adult Education in 1660 -  the participation by Rumanian delegates in many  meetings held by Unesco and, generally speaking,  the interest taken in the Organization's activities by  my country justify me in assuring you that our  National Commission 18 working along the right lines.
12.30 We share the praise for this, of course, with  the officials of the Secretariat who have given us  valuable aid on Unesco's behalf,
12.31 The enthusiasm with which famous European  MEETINGS  and Latin American speclalists in Romance culture  greeted our Symposium on Romance Studies is also  worthy of mention here,
12,32 But the fundamental reason for the success  of our activities is the general line of foreign policy  of our Republic, which has always done its utmost -  and now more thar ever - to widen the circle of  international cultural exchanges, to work for co-  operation and mutual understanding, and to leave no  stone unturned to ensure peaceful coexistence and  peace, which Montesquieu once defined ag ‘la  première loi naturelle de l'humanité”,
12,33 We have made every effort to encourage  cultural relations with other countries; at present,  we are engaged in cultural exchanges with over fifty  countries, We have concluded cultural agreements,  not only with our neighbours, but with France, the  United Arab Republic, India and Iraq, and are at  present discussing an agreement with the United  States of America. We have granted fellowships to  foreign students from twenty countries, including  - many African States.
12.34 The Head of the United States delegation made  a very fine and high minded speech here yesterday.  He tried to raise us to the sublime heights of the loft-  lest principles; in another speech, he expressed his  conviction that nobody in this hall was against disarm-  ament. We then proceeded to vote, and 30 delegations  voted against disarmament. The same attitude was  adopted with regard to the Cuban proposal,
12.35 We applaud all efforts for peace, peaceful  coexistence, and activities against racialism and  colonfalism; we hope, however, that the generous  words pronounced by the United States delegate will  be put into practice.
12.36 Fellow delegates, we earnestly hope, as the  Bible puts it, that the day will soon come when our  swords shall be turned into ploughshares,  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  The meeting ls closed.
13,  The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.