16 November 1960, at 11 a,m,  President: Mr. Akale- Work ABTE-WOLD (Ethiopia)  CONTENTS  Presentation of the Proposed Programme and Budget for
1961-1962 by the Chairman of the Executive Board . . . 100  Statement by the Director-General on the main lines of the  Organization's programme  » IE TE I TT I IY SR IE IE) 100  Second vote on the suppreasion of {tom 15,6 of the revised  agenda of the eleventh session of the General Conference  PRESENTATION OF THE PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  FOR 1961.1962 8Y THE CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD
1.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French);  Gentlemen, the meeting is open, We begin our  work this morning with the presentation of the  Proposed Programme and Budget for 1961-1062,
1.2 In accordance with Article V,5(a) of the  Constitution, the Executive Board examines the pro-  gramme of work for the Organization and correspond-  ing budget estimatea submitted to it by the Director-  General, and submits the programme and budget  with such recommendations as it considers desirable  to the General Conference.
1,3 The Chairman of the Executive Board will be  discharging this duty in a few moments, when he sub-  mits the Proposed Programme and Budget for 1961-
1,4 Moreover, in conformity with resolution 52,4  adopted by the General Conference at its tenth session,  the Director-General is required to make at the open-  ing phase of the General Conference, a statement on  the main lines of the Organization's programme.
1.5 I now call upon the Chairman of the Executive  Board,
2.1 Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom),  Chairman of the Executive Board:  Mr, President and fellow delegates, I have the  honour to present the comments of the Executive  Board on the programme and budget for 1961-1962,  The general observations of the Board together with  its remarks upon particular chapters of the programme  and budget, including the relevant addenda and corri-  genda, are contained in 11 C/5 Add.1, which has  been distributed to you. .
2,2 The members of the Board would wish me to  pay tribute to Mr, El Fasi who was the Chairman of  the Board's special working party which undertook  the preparatory work on its behalf, and also to  another member, Mr, Carneiro, who was the  Chairman of another working party which worked in  x
106  close association with Mr. El Fasi's working party  in the elaboration of tha draft resolution contained  in paragraph 14 of document 11 C/6 Add.1, ‘hat  resolution will be found on pages 6 and 7, in the  English version, and 1s the important relevant state-  ment for our discussions. In regard to this resolu-  tion I undertook to inform the General Conference  on behalf of the members of the Executive Board -  that two-thirds of the members of the Executive  Board voted in favour, none voted against, and there  were some abstentions,
2.3 The debate on this resolution was quite re-  markable in that the members of the Board found  themselves obliged to agree that the new programme  proposals of the Director-General had to be com-  mended to the General Conference, It then appeared  to be reasonable to them that, if the members of the  Board approved the ends that the Director-General  had in mind, they could not deny him the means. It  was in this spirit that some members of the Board  assumed the responsibility personally of voting in  favour of the new ceiling, although the authority of  their governments for any ceiling figure would need  to await the arrival of the leaders of their delega-  tions at this Conference, I felt it right that the  General Conference should know the strength of con-  viction that lies behind the Board's recommendation  on this important matter, as outlined in the draft  resolution in paragraph 14. I present these com-  menta to the General Conference.  STATEMENT BY THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL ON THE  M251 LINES OF THE ORGANIZATION'S PROGRAMME
3. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French):
1 call upon the Director-General.
4.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL (Translation from  the French);  Mr. President, Mr, Chairman of the Executive  Board and delegates, as you have pointed out, Mr.   PLENARY  President, the General Conference, at its tenth ses-  sion, adopted resolution 62 requesting me, Inter alla,  to make a statement to the General Conference, des-  cribing the main lines of the proposed programme  and budget, before the Programme Commission  studies that document in detail. As the Programme  Commission should be meeting very soon, 1 am  making this statement, to clarify, if possible, its  debates.
4,2 I propose to give you as coherent a description  as possible of the principal features of the draft  which the Secretariat has drawn up in accordance With  the directives of the General Conference and which  the Executive Board has submitted to you, in con-  formity with the provisions of the Constitution, to-  gether with its recommendations, mentioned by the  Chairman of the Board a few moments ago.
4,3 When thig draft was prepared, I bore in mind  the opinion expfessed by the General Conference at  {ts last session to the effect that it would be reason-  able to allow for a moderate increase in the budget  for 1961-1962. I refrained, however, from starting  off with a total budget figure - as a working hypo-  thesis - within which the estimates for guch pro-  gramme proposals as I decided to make would have  to be fitted, I thought it wiser to begin by consider-  ing the various aspects of the programme, singling  out the obligations which Unesco had already assumed  and to which it was committed in future years, and  seeing which projects wero drawing to an end and what  the resulting savings would be, in order to obtain as  accurate an idea as possible of the amount of funds  that could reasonably be expected to become available  for activities requiring consolidation or expansion.
4.4 It was not my intention to disrupt the structure  of a programme which was the result of long and  valuable experience acquired by the General Confer-  ence over the years, from one session to the next,  As far as {ts genaral outline and methods were con-  cerned, it met the wishes expressed by Member  States, It was quite clear to me that it consisted  largely of activities known as general, continuing  activities, which benefit all Member States and in  which Unesco plays the part of an international civil  service, and that in addition, it consisted - to a  considerable extent also, since this part of it includes  the Major Projects - of activities planned on a long-  term basis,
4.5 I was also aware of the potentialities, in the  sphere of direct action contributing to the Organiza-  tion's main objectives, of the Expanded Programme  of Technical Assistance, now in existence for more  than ten years, the Programme of Aid to Member  States, established in 1954, which later became the  Programme of Participation in the Activities of  Member States, and the United Nations Special Fund,  founded two years ago. In preparing the future pro-  gramme, account had to be taken of these methods of  action and also, of course, of the extra-budgetary  funds which often make it possible to expand certain  programme activities considerably,
4.6 Therefore, in preparing the draft now before  you, I kept these aspects of the problem in mind. In  order to preserve the balance of the programme, I °  considered it essential to devote special attention to  the main factors upon which it depends, In the first  place, there is the quantitative relationship between
101  MEETINOS Vv  the general activities, to which I referred a few  moments ago, and the actual programme operations,  The general activities, which form the buukbone of  the programme, not only ensure the continuity of  Unesco's work but also give it the necessary scient!-  fic basis, They supply it with an essential sub-  stratum which 1 may bo permitted to compare to the  part played in science by fundamental research as  opposed to applied research, It is therefore unthink-  able to try to expand the programme operations at  the expense of the general activities, by reducing  the appropriations for the latter.
4.7 Inthe second place, there is the relationship  between the budgetary appropriations for the pro-  gramme operations and the extra-budgetary funds  which are used, as you know, for the execution of  the programme of direct action, Here, too, a fair  balance must be maintained and the importance of  some aspects of the programme, especially in the  field of cultural activities, which do not benefit by  extra-budgetary resources, should not be disregarded.
4.8 Further, as and when the geographical acope  of the Organization's activities grows, care must  be taken to ensure that the major effort which it is  Unesco's duty to make for the benefit of a specific  group of countries should neither weaken nor  diminish {ts work in other regions, which meets  equally real needs, In other words, the new re-  sponsibilities that Unesco is called upon to assume,  particularly in connexion with the continent of  Africa, imply the continuation, in the most resolute  fashion, of its activities in other regions of the  world,
4.0 In past years, the General Conference, the  Executive Board and the Economic and Social  Council of the United Nations have quite rightly  emphasized the need to concentrate available re-  sources on a certain number of priority objectives.  IL believe that the draft before you meets this need  satisfactorily, This is so, firstly, because the  proposed budget increases affect fields of activity  which are already of major concern to the Organiza-  tion, These activities are therefore considerably  strengthened, Moreover, the gradual integration  of activities undertaken under the Expanded Pro-  gramme of Technical Assistance and the Special  Fund with those provided for in the Regular pro-  gramme shows far more clearly how they all form  an organic whole, The layout of the document also  brings out the organic relationship existing between  the various types of project since, for the first  time, these have been classified in accordance with  their objectives and not with the way in which they  are financed,
4,10 After these few general remarks, 1 should  now like to speak of some new features of the  Proposed Programme and Budget for 1961-1962,
4,11 With regard to education, it seemed to me  that, while continuing the basic studies and research  which Unesco has always carried out since its  earliest days, the Organization should now expand  its responsibilities in this field, fn order that they  may bear more proportion to the enormous needs  now becoming evident throughout the world. To  carry out fully one of the tasks devolving upon it  under its Constitution, it should - and I am deeply  convinced of this - increase its contribution to   v PLENARY  practical educational activities in Member States, in  order to help them both to expand and improves educa-  tion as a whole, regarded as a single entity whose  component elements cannot be dissociated.
4,12 There can be no doubt that the economic and  social advancement of the underdeveloped countries  is, as has often been reiterated, the crucial problem  of our time, There is certainly no point in reminding  you of the extraordinary speeding up of technical  progress throughout the world during the last few  years, In most countries, the swift expansion of  economic activity makes it increasingly imperative  to train the experts required for such expansion.  Governments ure being obliged more and more to  anticipate their needs, in the years to come, in  industry, agriculture, trade, administration, research,  technology and the professions, This quite naturally  leads them to revise their curricula, teaching methods  and system for the selection of pupils, Moreover,  the tendency in almost every country in the world is  to consider education as the means of giving indivi-  duals an all-round training, which will equip them,  not only to exercise a trade or profession, but also  to shoulder their responsibilities towards their  families, the local community, the national com-  munity and even the world community.
4,13 Thus, the very concept of education has  changed radically. Hitherto, education has often  been considered only as a means of passing on tradi-  tional values; it is now deliberately conceived as a  factor contributing to the transformation of Man and  his environment,
4.14 As I already had the opportunity of saying,  when I submitted the report of Unesco to the Economic  and Social Council of the United Nations at its Jast  session in July, aid to the leas developed countries  is becoming an increasingly urgent problem, How  can Unesco shirk {ts responsibilities in a year such  as 1860, which is distinguished by the attainment of  independence by a large number of countries,  especially on the African continent?
4,15 Is ft not the duty of the international com-  munity, using every means at {ts disposal, to help  these States henceforth to forge their own destiny?  It is therefore natural that, in the present circum-  stances, education - and particularly school educa-  tion at all levels, scientific and technical education  and adult education - should be given much promin-  ence in Unesco's programme,
4.16 In the first place, ‘it is essential to draw up  an accurate and systematic list of needs, in order to  be able to work out long-term development plans. In  this respect, Unesco is benefiting by the experience  gained in implementing the Major Project on the  Extension of Primary Education in Latin America,  which was initiated in 1956 and will continue to  expand in 1961 and 1962,
4.17 At its last session, the General Conference  requested me to conduct surveys of present educa-  tional needs in Tropical Africa, Asia and the Arab  States,
4.18 Unesco has received extremely effective ald  from the Member States in those three regions of  the world. Thanks to this - and to this only - it was  possible to carry out three surveys successfully  within a few months. These surveys enabled the  Secretariat and the regional meetings convened for
102  MEETINGS  the purpose to assess more accurately the magni-  tude of the tasks to be accomplished,
4,19 To give an idea of the enormous needs to be  met, I shall quote only a few figures, While there  are now nearly five million puplls in the primary  schools ot the Arabic-speaking countries, the school-  age population in those countries is estin. ted at  almost 15 million, In 15 Asian countries, it is esti-  mated that about 87 million children of school age  are without any schooling facilities and, in these  countries, the population is growing constantly,  This means that, {f the achool enrolment figures  remained the same in the coming yeara, the propor-  tion of illiteracy would rise more and more,
4,20 Of the 25 million children of school age in  the countries of Tropical Africa, 17 million have no  possibility of attending school. The needs of Latin  America, calculated at an earlier stage are no less  striking, Although remarkable progress has un-  doubtedly been made in the last few years, which  points to an increase in the number of children  attending school, considerable efforts have still to  be made,
4,21 While the States concerned are duvoting the  highest possible proportion of their national revenue  to the development of their educational systems,  they are quite justified in expecting from the entire  international community the support and aid which  they need. Unesco must therefore act, and with all  speed,
4,22 That is why, after consulting the Executive  Board, I have included in the Proposed Programme  and Budget for 1961-1962 three groups of projects  designed to meet, as far as possible, the wishes  expressed by the Member States of the three regions  concerned, I estimated that it would be necessary  to provide for un increase of about one million  dollars in the funds for the development of education  in the Arab States, Asia and Tropical Africa, For  the last-named region, I have also proposed in docu-  ment 11 C/5 Add, and Corr. a supplementary pro-  gramme costing $775,000, to be added to the sums  already provided for Africa in the Proposed Pro-  gramme and Budget for 1961-1962 (document 11 C/5),
4.23 The attainment of independence this year by  a large number of African States, most of which are,  I am happy to say, now Member States of Unesco,  made it necessary for our Organization to take im-  mediate steps within the general framework of the  programme launched for their benefit by the United  Nations and the Specialized Agencies.
4.24 However considerable the tasks to be accom-  plished in the fields of primary and secondary educa-  tion, it is obvious that systematic efforts must be  made, too, to develop technical and vocational train-  ing and higher education. I therefore considered it  necessary to expand and reinforce these activities  also.
4,25 With regard more particularly to higher  education, I should like to mention the international  study of university admissions, which Unesco and  the International Association of Universities have  been able to undertake jointly, owing largely to the  generous assistance of the Carnegie Corporation.  This new feature of our programme is important,  not only because of the vital part played by universi-  ties in the national life of every country and the   PLENARY  practical results which can be expected of such a  study, but also because it has provided an opportunity  for a new type of co-operation - which works extremely  well - between an intergovernmental organization like  Unesco, an international non-governmental associa-  tion and a private foundation,
4,26 With regard to adult education, ! took into  account the recommendations of the World Conference  on Adult Education held in Montreal last summer,  The proposals submitted to you, which affect several  chapters of the programme, are designed to give the  impetus expected from Unesco in this fleld,
4,27 The new structure of the Department of  Education, the staff of whichywill have to be increased  to tho required extent, 18 designed to equip this depart-  ment to carry out the programme rationally and effici-  ently during the next two years.
4,28 The scientific needs of the contemporary  world are equally imperative. It is obvious that  scientific progress is one of the main conditions for  economic and social progress, but the development  of science is itself dependent, vwing to the fact that  research workers are all specialists, upon the degree  of development of international co-operation in scienti-  fic research,
4.20 The survey on the main trends of inquiry in  the field of the natural sciences, undertaken at the  request of the General Assembly of the United Nationa  was conducted under the auspices of the United  Nations and Unesco by a special consultant of interna-  tional standing, Professor Plerre Auger, It provides  an extensive panorama of contemporary science, of  its achievements as well as its gaps. By clarifying  the existing situation as regards research in the  various branches of science, it has made it possible  to single out a number of objectives for the future,  especially in basic research, the exploration of natural  resources and the training of scientific and technical  personnel. I am sure that this survey, which is very  broad in scope, will be studied with interest by the  General Conference. It has already inspired some  of the proposals appearing in the proposed programme  for 1961-1962, .
4,30 Among the projects that have led to increased  international scientific co-operation, I shall confine  myself to mentioning one in the sphere of oceanography,  a subject now very much to the fore in the scientific  world. The bulk of the additional funds proposed for  natural sciences are agsignedto a new programme in  the marine sciences, based onthe recommendations  of the Intergovernmental Conference onOceanographic  Researchheldin Copenhagenlast July. It provides for  the establishment of an Intergovernmental Oceano-  graphic Commission and for close collaboration with  the other international organizations concerned.
4,31 In the broad field of the social sciences, the  international co-operation of experts and research  workers is equally essential. Moreover, it is  Unesco's duty to pursue, unceasingly and energeti-  cally, its studies and dissemination of information  which contribute to the campaign against the scourge  of racialism, It seemed to me more than ever  necessary to intensify our activity in this respect.
4.32 1 cannot fail to mention Unesco's efforts in  the sphere of culture, which completes the triptych -  education, science and culture - of the present and  future activities of the Organization,  ‘
4,33 I should like to recall a fact of which you are  well aware, namely that, during this budgetary  period, Unesco was faced with a problem of the  greatest importance, Iam referring to the safe-  guarding of the sites and monuments of Nubia, in  danger of being submerged as a result of the con-  struction of the Aswan High Dam, 'r'he launching,  last March, with the unanimous agreement of the  Executive Board, of its appeal for internativnal co-  operation to find the resources needed to save these  treasures, was considered as a type of undertaking  fully consonant with Unesco's aims. This appeal  has already met with a favourable response in many  countries and we have received numerous offers to  carry out accelerated archaeological excavations in  the areas destined to be flooded, However, apart  from these excavations, surveys and investigations,  we are faced with a practical task of still greater  magnitude: that of saving certain monuments from  the destruction and submersion threatening them,  cither by isolating them from the water by means  of construction works or hy evacuating some of  their irreplaceable treasures. The protection of  unique wonders like the Abu Simbel Temple and the  Island of Philae require the collection and expendi-  ture of considerable sums of money, which can be  raised only through the most generous public and  private co-operation at the international level,  Although this item falls outside the scope of the  Regular budget, I felt impelled to draw your atten-  tion to this exceptional undertaking, for which  Unesco has assumed a large part of the responsibility.
4.34 1 should also lke to draw attention to the im-  portance of the study of "International Relations and  Exchanges in Education, Science and Culture", which  was prepared by Unesco, in collaboration with other  organizations concerned, at the request of the  Economic and Social Council of the United Nations  and which will be the subject of a special debate at  this Conference.
4.35 Proposals based on the findings of this survey  and bearing on the continuation of activities designed  . to increase the number of international relations and  exchanges, both bilateral and multilateral, already  appear in the proposed programme and budget which  you are soon to consider. The importance of this  study has led me to rename the service responsible  the "International Exchange Service', since its  functions are henceforth expanded to include other  activities in addition to the exchange of persons.
4,36 You will, I am sure, understand if I deal  more cursorily with the activities relating to mass  communication. The structure of the Department,  altered in accordance with the directives of the  General Conference, now tallies more exactly with  its two principal functions. The programme con-  cerning the free flow of information and the develop-  ment of information media will be continued resolutely  in 1961-1962, while mass media will be used more  systematically to promote the ideal of peace and  international understanding for which Unesco stands.
4,37 1 mentioned earlier that I would confine my  remarks to the new features of the programme  before you. That is why I have not talked about the  Major Projects, with which the General Conference  is thoroughly familiar, since it has already dis-  cussed them on two occasions. Their objectives   Vv PLENARY  are clearly defined and their implementation will con-  tinue along the approved lines, Taking account of the  other aapects of the programme of which I have spoken,  I did not consider it possible to increase the budget  estimates for these projects to any marked extent  save for the East-West Major Project, for which the  sum provided exceeds the amount for the previous  period by about $250, 000,
4,38 I should like once again to express my grati-  tude to the Executive Board, which has given me parti-  cularly valuable aid and support during the successive  stages that have led up to the submission of the pro-  posed programme and budget in {ts present form,
4.39 1 have taken all the comments and suggestions  which it has made to me into consideration wherever  possible, and as the Chalrman of the Executive Board  was kind enough to point out, many of them are re-  flected in the proposals before you,
4,40 The extraordinary speed with which events  have succeeded one another since last summer made  it impossible for the Secretariat to bring out tho  principal document by the prescribed date. In order  that the difficulties with which we were faced may  not recur in future, I propose, with the approval of  the Executive Board, a new time-table for the prepara-  tion of the Proposed Programme and Budget for
1963-1964, The tide of events also compelled me,  contrary to my original intention, to present the  proposed programme and budget in a single docusnent,  together with two Addenda and Corrigenda, one of  which, as I have already stated, contains, in particu-  lar my proposals for a supplementary educational  programme for Tropical Africa.
4.41 With regard to document 11 C/6 Add. and  Corr,1I, I should like to draw the Conference's atten-  tion to my propusals concerning co-operation with  the International Development Association and the  Inter-American Development Bank, These two  institutions, whose aim is to provide the financial back-  ing for economic and social development, were set  up in Washington at the end of September. They have  considerable sums at their disposal, They recognize  that education ia a key factor in economic development  and consider that the advisory services of Unesco  would be particularly valuable both to their own  central organs and to the governments seeking assis-  tance from them. I took the view that Unesco could  not shirk this new responsibility, since it cannot hold  aloof from a task which is eminently within its sphere  of competence and which may have considerable  effects on educational development in the Member  States involved, mainly in Asia, as far as tne Interna-  tional Development Association is concerned, and In  Latin America, which is the sphere of interest of the  Inter-American Development Bank, 1 should like to  make it clear that there is no question at all of  Unencots taking part in the execution of the pro-  grammes or activities financed by these agencies,  but only of providing them with the services that  they or the beneficiary States may require when  preparing the necessary plans. Document 11 C/5  Add. and Corr.II shows only the administrative and  budgetary implications of the collaboration which  I advocate with the two aforesald organizations -  i.e. à total expenditure of $187,000 - but all the  relevant information can be found in documents
11 C/31 and 11 C/32.
4.42 Owingtothe late date at which these proposals  hadtobe submitted to it, the Executive Board, in ex-  presaing its interest inthe Initiative whichihadtaken  inthis respect andin giving its approval to it, adopteda  resolution in which it submits these proposals to the  General Conference, but without including the above-  mentioned sum inthe provisional spending level, which,  after examining the Proposed Programme and Budget for
1961-1062, it recommends for approval tothe General  Conference "together with such additional funds as the  General Conference may decide tobe necessary for co-  operation with the above organizations".
4,43 In connexion with the development of the  situation In the Congo, I also had to submit to the  Executive Board at a recent date a report on Unesco's  participation in the civilian operations of the United  Nations in that country, I thought that the Organiza-  tion, as a contribution to the combined efforts of the  United Nations family in the Congo, should meet the  cost of the salaries of the principal administrative  and executive staff responsible for directing this  undertaking, the object of which, I would remind you,  is to re-establish the educational system of the  country, particularly at the secondary and higher  levels, After my consultations with the Executive  Board last week, and bearing in mind the comments  made during its debate on this subject, the proposals  I submit to the General Conference in document
11 C/34 have additional budgetary implications  amounting to $144, 000,
4,44 In these circumstances, the total increase of  $4,058,665 over the 1959-1960 budget can be broken  down as follows; 81% for Programme Operations and  Services (Part II), 14% for Common Services (Part  IV) and 7% for General Administration (Part 111),  A reduction of 2% is possible under Part I as a  result of various savings.
4,45 And now, I consider it my bounden duty, as  Head of the Secretariat, to draw the Conference's  attention to the fact that, in most of its areas of  work, the Secretariat has reached the utmost limit  of the effort which it is capable of making. I am not  thinking only of the size of the staff, which is barely  adequate, but also, and above all, of the buildings  which have become too small, less than two years  after the completion of the Headquarters, I must  emphasize the seriousness of this situation, which  should be examined with the greatest care and  remedied as quickly as possible; otherwise, the  Secretariat, the essential instrument for the execu-  tion of the programme, may find itself deprived of  the means which are indispensable if it is to go on  working efficiently.
4,46 Following my consultations with the Head-  quarters Committee, which I have kept fully up to  date in regard to this important problem, I have  submitted to the General Conference a project for  the construction of a new Headquarters building.  Several alternative methods of financing it have  been considered and they must now be examined by  the Headquarters Committee and afterwards by the  Administrative Commission, However, it is  already clear that if the Conference approves the  solution which I recommend - and which would con-  sist in paying off the cost of the building in eight  years - a further sum of $1, 234, 000 will have to be  added to the total expenditure for 1961-1962.   PLENARY MEETINGS Vv
4,47 To summarize; the proposed budget amounts  to $30,920,128 - an increase of $4,868,665, or
4,48 In addition, the Conference will have to con-  sider the draft resolutions already handed in by  Brazil and the United States of America for a budget-  ary increase even greater than that which 1 myself  have proposed; it will also have to consider over one  hundred draft resolutions proposing either additional  expenditure for uctivities already included in the  proposed programme, or for new projects, These  proposals of Member States - coming from all over  the world - show how keen they are to expand  Unesco's activities, I am sure that the Programme  Commission will consider them most carefully and,  at this stage, it 18 not my task to make recommenda.  tions to the Conference in this reapect; but I wished  to mention this important aspect of the task incum-  bent upon it during the current session, and I am  confident that it will bear it in mind when the time  comes - as it soon will - to fix the provisional  budget ceiling.
4,49 Finally, I would repeat what I have already  sald, namely, that the funds required to finance the  construction of a fourth building, which constitute an  extraordinary item of expenditure, will have tu be  added to the total of the Regular budget.
4.50 I now submit the Proposed Programme and  Budget for 1861-1962 to you for study and reflection,
1 am perfectly well aware that the resources avall.  able to the Organization are insignificant in compari-  son with the tremendous needs which have still to be  met in the world today. During the year, I have re-  peatedly referred, whenever I had an opportunity, to  the benefits that mankind could derive from the plan  for general and complete disarmament contemplated  by the United Nations General Assembly in the resolu-  tion which it adopted last year. That plan would  enable us to serve still better the cause of education,  science and culture throughout the world. Meanwhile  our first duty is to be ready to carry out our task with  such means as may be available to us, However, I  for my part am certain that the studies and surveys  conducted in the last few years, and particularly  during the current two-year perlod, have prepared  Unesco to assume with greater maturity and efficl -  ency the responsibilities which might devolve upon  it, should that plan be put into effect.
4.51 Very soon the Programme Commission and  then this agsembly and all the other organs of the  Conference will be starting their work and assuming  their responsibilities. But I should not like to see,  in this effort to meet the urgent and tremendous  needs existing in the world and particularly in the  countries of Africa, these responsibilities becoming  a cause of rivalry between the Director-General and  the General Conference. I would rather - and I am  sure this will be the case - see our respective re-  sponsibilities smoothly co-ordinated for the greater  good of the Organization and its future, for the  greater good of education, science and culture, for  the greater good of peace in the world.
5.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French);  After the addresses given by the Chairman of  the Executive Board and the Director-General, to
105  which you have just listened, the Programme Com-  mission will now hold its first meeting in Room II.
5.2 The plenary meeting will continue, We shall  begin by considering the General Committee's  recommendation with regard to the time-limits for  the submiseion of amendments to the proposed pro-  gramme and budget, after which a second vote will  be taken on the proposal to delete item 15.6 of the  revised agenda.
5,3 1 call upon the Secretary to read the General  Committee's recommendation.
6.1 Mr, MONTAGNIER (Secretary) (Translation  from the French):  Mr. President, here is the recommendation  which the General Committee is submitting to the  General Conference with regard to the time-limits  for the submission of draft amendments to the pro-  posed programme and budget.
6.2 The General Conference,  Recalling Rule 108 of its Rules of Procedure,  Considering that, owing to circumstances beyond  his control, the Director-General was unable to  communicate the Proposed Programme and Budget  for 1961-1962 to Member States by the prescribed  date,  Considering that, in these circumstances, certain  Member States have been unable to adhere to the  time-limits laid down by Rule 78 of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference for the sub-  mission of proposals for the adoption by the General  Conference cf amendments to the proposed programme  and budget which involve the undertaking of new acti-  vities or a substantial increase in budgetary expendi-  tures, or which involve increases or decreases in  the total budget ceiling proposed by the Director-  General,  Decides to suspend the effect of paragraphs 2  and à of Rule 78 of its Rules of Procedure;  Decides to fix 7 November 1960 as the latest  date for the submission by Member States to the  General Conference of proposals covered by para-  graphs 2 and 5 of Rule 78 of the Rules of Proce-  dure.
7, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon the Head of the delegation of Brazil,  H.E. Mr, de Berredo Carneiro,
8.1 Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  (Translation from the French):  Mr. President and delegates, I should like to  begin by expressing my support for the proposal  made by the Director-General and approved by the  General Committee. ‘At thé same time, however,  I should like to ask this assembly to take into  actoint a small amendment which I proposed to the  General Committee this morning, but which it did  not adopt. As my proposal was unacceptable to the  majority of the Committee, I can only appeal to the  General Conference, in the hope that it will agree  to its insertion in the draft resolution submitted to  us by the Director-General. This amendment re-  lates to the date at which proposals concerning the  fixing of the budget celling would be receivable.  You know, fellow delegates, that this year we have  to observe a new provision (paragraph 5 of Rule 78),   y PLENARY  under which proposals for Increases or decreases in  the total budget ceiling proposed by the Director-  General must be submitted in writing and must reach  the Director-General at least aix weeks before the  opening of the session; the Director-General then  communicates them as soon as possible to Member  States and Associate Members, Within this pre-  scribed time-limlit, two proposals to alter the ceiling  suggested by the Director-General were made, one  of them by the Government of Brazil and the other by  the Government of the United States of America,  These two proposals are therefore perfectly in order.
8.2 The Conference will now have before it four  different figures for the budget ceiling, and will have  to vote for the one which it deems most appropriate,
8.3 In the first place, there is the figure proposed  by the Executive Board, fixing the ceiling at  $30,697, 628; that of the Director-General, fixing it  at $30,020,128; the proposal of the Brazilian  Government for a ceiling of $31,460,628 and that of  the Government of the United States of America for  a ceiling of $31,597,628,
8.4 In the hope of recuring acceptance of à pro-  posal which will take all these factors into account  and may facilitate the Conference's choice, I suggest  that the following amendment be included in the last  paragraph of the proposal approved by the General  Committee this morning: "Decides to fix 7 November
1960 as the latest date for the submission by Member  States to the General Conference of proposals covered  by paragraph 2 of Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure,  and 16 November" - that is today - "as the latest  date for the aubmisston of proposals covered by  paragraph 6 of Rule 78", This might perhaps enable  us, Mr, President, to submit to the meeting this  afternoon a proposal for the budget ceiling which  would not only contrive to reconcile the slight differ-  ences in the figures I have referred to, but would  also make it possible to take into account to some  extent - if only a very slight one - the approximately
200 draft resolutions of which you are aware and for  which neither the Director-General's proposal nor  the proposals of Brazil and the United States have  been able to make allowance.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon the delegate of the United States of  America.
10.1 Mr, THAYER (United States of America);  Mr. President, I appreciate, and with great  understanding, the spirit in which the distinguished  delegate of Brazil has presented this suggestion that  we change the date on which the ceiling of the budget  shall be fixed, But I believe that there are practical  considerations which make this extremely difficult,  if not impossible, to do. I listened with great inter-  est to the explanation of the Chairman of the  Administrative Commission when he described all  the complications of the work of that Commission  which accompanied the preparation of the budget and  the ceiling of the budget. I know also that every one  of tha delegations here assembled has received  instructions from their government on the question  of how much they can contribute to the Unesco budget;  delay would ensue if new instructions had to be re-  ceived as the result of the extension of the date. We  MEETINGS
106  are all anxious to give the fullést possible assistance  to the African nations and other areas of the world,
1 simply say that the evidence of the United States’  goodwill in this reapect is written Into the proposal  which we haye already made, But we have been  here already a long time, let us get down to the  business of this Conference which we cannot do if  we keep on extending dates and listening to more  proposals. We have serious work to do, and !  believe that if we extend this date from 5 November  to 16 November, someone with just as good reason  may suggest that we postpone it another week. We  shall then be arguing continually about the question  of extending the date and not attending to the sub-  stance of the Conference itself.
10,2 So, Mr. President, I respectfully suggest  that we adhere to the proposal of the Director-  General and that we accept the recommendations of  the General Committee.
11,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French):  Is the motion of the Head of the delegation of  Brazil to amend the recommendation of the General  Committee seconded?
11.2 The motion is not seconded,
11.3 The Conference will therefore decide on the  General Committee's recommendation, which must  be passed by a two-thirds majority.
11.4 The recommendation {8 adopted unanimously.  SECOND YOTE ON THE SUPPRESSION OF ITEM
15,6 OF THE REVISED AGENDA OF THE ELEVENTH  SESSION OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE
11.5 We shall now continue with the next item of  the agenda, You will remember that, at the plenary  meeting yesterday afternoon, the proposal to sup-  press item 15.6 of the agenda resulted in an equally  divided vote - 30 in favour and 30 against, Under  Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure, the General  Conference will now proceed to a second vote on the  same item.
11.6 I call upon the Head of the delegation of the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to speak on a  point of order.
12,1 Mr, LAPIN (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian);  Mr. President and fellow delegates, the speeches  made by certain delegates yesterday on the subject  of the agenda showed that the Soviet proposal re-  garding item 16,6 had been slightly misunderstood.  I would therefore beg leave to explain our position  briefly, We did not, as suggested here, recommend  reopening the discussion on the specifically military  and political aspects of disarmament, for such  matters come within the province of the United  Nations, Unesco has other tasks, It is stated in  our Organization's Constitution that since wars  begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men  that the defences of peace must be constructed, The  reason why we proposed item 15,6 was simply that  the armaments problem has assumed such propor-  tions that it threatens to destroy all our efforts in  the fields of education, culture and science,   PLENARY
12,2 We have just heard the statement by the  Director-General. It contained many interesting and  positive points, raising such concrete problems as  those of museums and landscapes, That fs all very  well, But does the world have any guarantees that all  the useful and necessary measures proposed can be  carried {nto effect? Are there any guarantees that  war will not break out, and that bombs will not begin  to fall on our schools, our museums and our homes?  That is why the Soviet Union {as so intent on raising  this issue.
12.3 There has been talk of museums, indeed, But  not so long ago, during the last war, 427 museums,
82,000 schools and 42,000 libraries were destroyed  in our country, Over 200 of our writers perished  during the war. The point at issue is whether bombs  will once again fall on our museums, our homes, our  theatres and our schools,
12.4 If all were going well in the United Nations, if  the United Nations had already reached agreement on  disarmament, {t would be inappropriate for us to  raise the matter here, But as you are aware, no  agreement in the matter has yet been reached in the  United Nations. We have no intention of developing  a discussion on disarmament, but we consider it our  duty in the context of Unesco's tasks to express our  moral and intellectual concern with the problems of  disarmament.
13. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French)  I call upon the delegate of the United States of  America, after which we shall proceed to vote.
14,1 Mr. THAYER (United States of America):  Mr, President, I wonder if it would not be possible  to ask the Secretarfat to arrange for a meeting where  some of the delegates could learn about parliamentary  procedure?
14.2 I rise, Mr. President, on a point of order,  to ask if it would not be possible for the Chairman of  the Executive Board to explain exactly the proposi-  tion on which we are about to vote.
15. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French):  I call upon the Chairman of the Executive Board.
16,1 Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdoin),  Chairman of the Executive Board:  Mr. President and fellow delegates, the matter  now under discuscion stems from a resolution passed  by the Executive Board at its 55th session and to  which the Director-General referred in his interven-  tion in the debate yesterday, For the information of  the Conference, I would say that when this matter  was discussed in the Executive Board a basic resolu-  tion was submitted by one of the members which I  think I am fair in saying did not, in its form, command  the confidence and support of the majority of the  members of the Board. At the same time, with that  spirit of co-operation which I am happy to say is  characteristic of the Executive Board, it was decided  to form a working party to see whether some general  agreement could be reached. Here again, I am happy  to say that, as often occurs, general agreement was  reached in the resolution which was later unanimously  passed by the Executive Board,
16.2 1 shall read the relevant parts of that resolu-  tion to the members of the Conference. The opera-  tive Introductory section is designed more particularly  to contribute to the creation of relations of trust and  peaceful co-operation between States in conformity  with the aforesaid resolution, and is, I think, in  line with the concluding paragraphs of the Director-  General's statement this morning introducing the  programme and budget, That is to say, the aim of  the resolution was to reaffirm the Executive Board's  belief in the principles for which Unesco stands. It  then went on to decide that the Organization should  continue to take all appropriate measures to bring  about the formation in all Member States of a climate  of opinion favourable to the achievement of the ob-  jects of the United Nations resolution. There is a  reaffirmation that what we are engaged in, if I may  venture to say so, is the pursuit of international co-  operation and mutual understanding, through educa-  tion, science and culture, We reaffirm in that  resolution that what the members of the Programme  Commission are now doing 1s seeking ways and  means, with the money that we will give them, to  enable them to do that work,
16,3 The second thing that we sald was that the  Director-General might, when the United Nations  had achieved agreement on general and complete  disarmament under effective international control,  give a report on measures which might be adopted,  ete. Ihave no need to remind you, ladies and  gentlemen, that that gituation has not been reached,  and therefore that there is no obligation on the  Director-General or the Executive Board to engage  itself upon entirely theoretical lucubrations.
16,4 The third point made in the resolution is  that the Director-General should submit to the  Executive Board, as soon as feasible, proposals  for the utilization of the resources. As the re-  sources have not become available, there {a no  obligation on the Director-General or the Executive  Board to proceed to make proposals to anybody be-  cauge the resources are not there, And finally it  calls for continuing information to be given to the  members of the Executive Board concerning ways  and means in which the programme and the work of  the Organization is continuing to serve the aim  which was set out at the beginning - to contribute to  the creation of relations of trust and peaceful co-  operation between Member States, 1 wish to repeat  and to assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that no  meeting of the Executive Board passes but that the  Director-General does not, in the course of either  the printed or cyclostyled or oral statements, have  regard to these general aims. The Executive  Board is satisfied that the Organization is consis-  tently working to these ends.
17. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French);  We shall now proceed immediately to vote on the  suppression of item 15.6 of the revised agenda.
18. (The vote was taken by roll-call.  Voted in favour: Argentina, Australia, Belgium,  Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rich, Denmark,  Dominican Republic, Ecuador, France, Federal  Republic of Germany, Greece, Haiti, Iran, Israel,   v PLENARY MNEETINGS  Italy, Japan, Jordan, Korea, Luxembourg, Monaco,  Netherlands, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan,  Panama, Philippines, Spain, Turkey, United  Kingdom, United States of America, Uruguay,  Venezuela, Viet-Nam,  Voted against: Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma,  Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Ceylon,  Congo (capital: Brazzaville), Cuba, Czechoslovakia,  Finland, Guinea, Hungary, Ivory Coast, Mali,  Mexico, Morocco, Poland, Rumania, Senegal, Sudan,  Sweden, Tunlala, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,  Union of Soviet Soclalist Republics, United Arab  Republic, Upper Volta, Yugoslavia,  Abstained: Afghanistan, Austria, Cameroun,  Central African Republic, Dahomey, Ethiopia, Ghana,  India, Indonesia, Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Libya,  Malagasy Republic, Federation of Malaya, Nepal,  New Zealand, Peru, Switzerland, Thailand,  Absent: Albania, Cambodia, El Salvador,  Guatemala, Iraq, Liberia, Niger, Saudi Arabia,  Somalia).
19,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French);  Here is the result of the vote; 36 in favour of the  suppression of item 15.6 of the revised agenda, 26  against, 20 abstentions and 9 absent.
19.2 Item 15.6 is therefore deleted from the  revised agenda,
19,3 I now call upon H,E, Mr. Lund, Head of the  delegation of Sweden,
20, Mr, LUND (Sweden):  Mr, President, 1 have come to this rostrum to say  that the Swedish delegation voted in favour of re-  taining this {tem on the agenda as {t scemed to us to  imply only that Unesco must continue its work and be  prepared for the time when disarmament and effec-  tive international control has been achieved, and  this in full conformity with the declarations of the  Director-General yesterday and of the Chairman of  the Executive Board today.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 call upon H,E, Mr. Kahuda, Head of the delega-  tion of Czechoslovakia,
22,1 Mr, KAHUDA (Czechoslovakia) (Translation  from the Russian): ‘
1 should like to say a few words in explanation of  our delegation's vote: the results of tHe vote on the  subject of the Director-General's report on action  taken for the implementation of the resolution adopted  by the Executive Board on 15 December 1959, at ite
55th session, make it necessary for the delegation  of the Socialist Republic of Czechoslovakia to explain  its point of view in greater detail, Our Government  set great store on the Executive Board's resolution  expressing the international Organization's readiness  to make a contribution towards the solution of this  most burning issue of the day - a contribution which  would have undoubtedly enhanced Unesco's prestige  among all those actively concerned with science,  culture and education,
22,2 The reason why the Czechoslovak delegation  voted against the deletion of {tem 15.6 from the  agenda is that the objectives of keeping the world
108  free of armaments and armies and ridding it of the  threat of war form the bedrock of Czechoslovakia's  foreign policy, which has the backing of the Catire  nation, These principles of the peaceful develop-  ment and coexistence of States are embodied in the  new Constitution of the Soclalist Republic of  Czechoslovakia adopted this year.
22,3 It is no easy task, admittedly, to work out  ways of producing mutual understanding between  peoples and of creating new relationships between  them, eapecially as this task has never before  acquired such capital significance. Small wonder,  then, that mankind is finding this problem difficult  to solve, This makes it all the more important,  therefore, to aupport this noble endeavour, and  Unesco {3 in a better position than any other organiza-  tion to discharge such a mission, It was precisely  this question which was dealt with in the Board  resolution requesting the Director-General to con.  tinue to take all appropriate measures to bring about  the function, in all States, of a climate of opinion  favourable to the achievement of the objects defined  in the resolution on general and complete disarrna-  ment unanimously adopted by the United Nationa,
22.4 The Czechoslovak delegation cannot accept  the arguments advanced by those who claim that  Unesco ls not in a position to take any action so  long as no agreement has been reached on general  and complete disarmament, und that it is first of  all necessary to arrive at such an agreement on the  political level, :
22.5 The fallacy of such reasoning, which  consciously or unconsciously borders on sabotage  of peace and disarmament, is obvious. The con-  clusion of an agreement is, of course, the business  of political organs; but if we believe that disarma-  ment is the key issue of mankind today, we have no  right to sit back and wait, and we should do every-  thing possible in our own particular field to help  golve this problem, regardless of the present  results of the political negotiations. Infact, we  should exert even greater efforts the larger the  number of difficulties that arise in the political  sphere.
22.6 At literally every step we come up against  a series of questions which are directly within our  purview as an international organization dealing  with education, science and culture. For example,  one argument advanced against general and com-  plete disarmament is that disarmament presupposes  confidence, and that confidence is lacking today.  But if we wish to avold the old error of puzzling our  brains in order to decide which came first, the  chicken or the egg, we can only say that disarma-  ment is a prerequisite for confidence, just as  confidence is needed for disarmament. Any sensible  person will readily appreciate the tremendous part  that the education of children and adults can play in  this connexion, and the responsibility resting on  the shoulders of those in charge of information  media. It is precisely in this particular field that  we can and must make an important contribution.
22.7 The results of today's vote do not relieve  Unesco of its responsibility as far as education is  concerned. Whether we like it or not, we shall  sooner or later have to turn our attention to this  matter. The question of general and complete   PLENARY  disarmament will become a central link fn our activi-  ties, which means that it will be necessary not only  to concentrate our full attention on it but also to set  aside budget funds, Too much time has already been  lost, yet the danger remains - the danger of pro-  crastination. That is all I had to say to explain our  vole,  MEETINGS
23.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French):  The time of the next meeting, to be held tomorrow,  will be settled by the General Committee.
23.2 The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 12,30 p.m,