13 December 1960, at 11,05 a.m,  President: Mr, S.G. LAPIN (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  CONTENTS  Adoption of the Report of the General Committee on the re-  quests for the inclusion of two new items in the Agenda 446  Presentation of the Final Report of the Reports Committee  by the Chairman of that Committee . 0 8 001000 0 446  Adoption of the Third Report of the Administrative Com-  mission s + 0 0° 6 0 7 6 2
1.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian);  Gentlemen, I declare the twenty-eighth plenary  meeting open.
1.2 On the agenda is the report of the General  Committee on one or two matters raised by the delega-  tion of the Soviet Union followed by the Report of the  Reports Committee and the Third Report of the  Administrative Commission,
1.3 I imagine that we shall make vigorous headway  in discussing these three questions,  ADOPTION OF THE REPORT OF THE GENERAL COMMITTEE ON  THE REQUESTS POR THE INCLUSION OF TWO NEW ITEMS IN THE  AGENDA.
1.4 Let us take the first one, the report of the  General Committée to the General Conference on the  requests for the addition to the agenda of two naw  {tems submitted by the delegation of the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics. The document is 11 c/as.
1.5 Item 1 relates to draft resolution 11 C/DR/129  concerning the admission to Unesco of States not  members of the United Nations, The General Com-  mittee recommends that the General Conference add  this item to the agenda of the present session. The  General Committee feels, however, that the Confer-  ence will not have time at the present session to give  thorough consideration to the matter, - It therefore  recommends that the General Conference refer this  question to the Exécutive Board for consideration,  with authority to convey to the Director-General any  instructions it may deem necessary as a result of  . such considération, on the understanding that in that  event the Director-General and the Executive Board will  report to the General Conference at ita twelfth session.
1,6 Item 2 of this report relates to draft resolu-  tion 11 C/DR/130 concerning a proposed change in  the status of Associate Members of Unesco. The  General Committee, endorsing the view expressed by  the Legal Committee, considers that this proposal  entails the adoption by the General Conference of  amendments to certain provisions of the Constitution  ~
446   . .......". veer 449  and cannot, in present circumstances, be added to the  agenda of this session of the General Conference. The  General Committee recalls that any Member State is  entitled to make proposals to the General Conference  for the amendment of the Constitution. Such propo-  sals must take the form of a draft amendment and  must be submitted within the time-limit prescribed  by Article XIII of the Constitution. It is also pointed  out that any Member State may, within the time-limits  laid down by the Constitution and in the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference, present draft  amendments proposing changes in the status of  Associate Members of Unesco, Only at its next  session will the General Conference be able to con-  sider all these questions,
1.7 The Soviet Union delegation waa in agreement  with this report, and it now comes up for discussion  here, Does anyone wish to speak on it? If not, I  present it for approval. Are there any objections?  May we take it that the report Is unanimously approved?  We shall consider it unanimously approved,  PRESENTATION OF THE FINAL REPORT or THE REPORTS  COMMITTEE BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THAT COMMITTEE
1.8 The second question is the Report of the Reports  Committee, which will be presented to you by the  Chairman of that Committee, Mrs. Kaminska, whom  I now call upon.
2,1 Mrs, KAMINSKA (Poland), Chairman of the  Reports Committee, (Translation from the French);  Mr, Président, In accordance with resolutions 54  and 55 adopted by ‘the General Conference at its tenth  session and relating to the terms of reference and  membership of the Reports Committee, the Committee  met six days before the opening of the General Confer-  ence, It was thus able to submit a preliminary report  to the Programme Commission and to the General  Conference on 21 November, bearing on sections 2,
3 and 4 of the document before you (document 11 C/11)  and presenting an assessment of the past.   PLENARY
2,2 The Committee then met to consider proposals  for the future, in the light of the work done by the  Conference, It 18 how presenting its final report,  together with five draft resolutions and a draft general  report which it submits for the approval of the  General Conference.
2,3 Thus, in accordance with the resolutions to  which I have referred, the General Conference had  elected 23 Member States to take part in the Com-  mittee's work, Unfortunately, at most of the Com-  mittee's meetings, the quorum was barely attained  and, in view of this situation, the Committee came  to certain conclusions which are inoluded among its  recommendations for the future. .
2,4 Having said that, however, I hasten to put  your minds at rest with regard to the work done by  the Committee for, although the number of those  participating may have been unsatisfactory, this was  offset by the qualities, conscientiousness and keen-  ness shown by those who attended.
2,5 Their task was also facilitated by their officers:  Mr, Weeden (Australia) and Mr, Nguyen Khac Kham  (Viet-Nam) served as Vice-Chairmen, while Mr,  Siikala (Finland), who had to leave, handed over his  office as Rapporteur to Mrs, Paronetto-Valier (Italy),  who performed her dutiés with the same competence.
2.6 Further, the Committee benefited by the assis-  tance of the Secretariat, in the person of Mr,  Adiseshiah, why represented thé Director-General  and was helped by Messrs, Berkeley and Lebar.
2,7 As 1 do not wish to repeat my observations on  those parts of the report which were submitted to the  plenary meeting on 21 November, I shall confine my-  self to recalling that they dealt with the implementa-  tion of the programme, the form and presentation of  the Reports of the Director-General and of Member  States and the substance of these reports on selected  topics to be gives special attention, namely the  Major Project ‘on the Extension and Improvement of  Primary Education in Latin America, the Major  Project on Scientific Research on Arid Lands, the  Major Project on the Mutual Appreciation of Eastern  and Western Cultural Values, international scientific  and technical co-operation by the convening of con-  ferences, congresses and other international meet-  ings, scientific co-operation in the social sciences  and the development of National Commissions.
2.8. After an examination of the. Reports of Member  States, the Committee noted that it was unable to  give a complete answer to the question as to whether  the needs and interests of Member States had been  taken into consideration - and if ao to what extent -  in the implementation of the programme. I was  able only to submit an approximate opinion on the  six items to which I referred a few moments ago,  With some reserves, and as far as it was able to  judge, it considered that, on the whole, the intereste  of Member States had been taken into account in the  execution of the programme.
2,8 The Committee's roposals in this regard are  contained iri draft resolution no. 1, which is now be-  fore you and with regard to which, Mr. President,  I should like to draw your attention to an érror in  the French text in'Annex I, page 2, paragraph (b).  The end of the sentence in this paragraph should be  deleted and should end with the words: "forte  tendance A la réglonalisation". .
2,10 The Committee also had to decide on the ques-  tion of the special reports submitted by Member  States on action taken by them upon the conventions  and recommendations adopted by the General Confer- |  ence,
2,11 This question, which forms the subject of a  special item on the agenda of the General Conference,  received close attention from the Committee, which  set up a sub-committee to study it, The membership  of this sub-committee consisted of representatives of  the United States of America, Japan, Mexico, the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Yugoslavia.
2,12 Annex II of document 11 C/11 contains a  general report on this subject, which is submitted to  the Conference in pursuance of Article 18 of the  "Rules of Procedure concerning Recommendations to  Member States and International Conventions covered  by the terms of Article IV, paragraph 4, of the Con-  stitution", and also two draft resolutions, numbers
2 and 4, ’
2,13 The Constitution stipulates that each of the-  Member States shall submit the recommendations or  conventions adopted by the General Conference to its  competent authorities within a period of one year  from the close of the seasion of the General Confer-  ence at which they were adopted.
2,14 The international instruments of interest to  us at the moment are the following: the Recommenda-  tion on International Principles applicable to Archaeo-  logical Excavations, the Recommendation concerning  International Competitions in Architecture and Town  Planning, the Convention concerning the International  Exchange of Publications, that dealing with the Ex-  change of Official Publications and Government Docu-  ments between States and, finally, the Recommenda-  tion concerning the International Standarization of  Educational Statistics, The number of these instru-  ments will probably have increased before this  session of the General Conference comes to an end.
2.16 Owing to the decision taken by the General  Conférence, at its tenth session, to defer the prepara-  tion of its general report, this session is the first  occasion on which the General Conferénce has been  required to consider and comment on the action taken  by Member States upoñ conventions and recommenda-  tions adopted by the Conference,
2,16 The Committee deeméd it advisable to lay  particular emphasis on the general report contained  in Annex II of the document we are now discussing, -  since the Organization's programme of regulatory  action 1s expanding and the interpretation of the  provisions of the Constitution which concern such  action requires clarification, in order that the  General Conference may be able to see how its  decisions are being implemented,
2,17 With regard to the progress made in respect  of Human Rights coming within Unesco's purview,  the Committee noted that, in accordance with resolu-  tion 10 C/49, 41 Member States had supplied informa-  tion on the progress made and that an analytical  summary of this information had béen transmitted to  the Secretary-General of the United Nations,
2,18 On the basis of information received by  Unesco, the Committee concluded that progress had  been made in those aspects of Human Rights coming  within Unesco's purview and that it would be inter-  esting to request Member States to continue   XXVII PLENARY  supplying information on that subject to the next  session of the General Conference,
2,19 Paragraph 2 (b) of resolution 10 C/64 requests  the Committee to submit a report to the General Con-  ference on the future development of Member States’  contribution to the preparation and execution of  Unesco's programme, with recommendations calcu-  lated to improve that contribution,
2,20 The Committee noted that the question of  Member States! contributions to the preparation of  the programme was already the subject of a proposal  which was being studied by a working party at the  current session, It therefore concluded that it would  be inappropriate for it to consider the matter,
2.21 With regard to Member States! contributions  to the execution of the programme, the Committee  draws the attention of the General Conference to the  preceding sections of its report, from which certain  conclusions emerge with regard to the future develop-  ment of this contribution, The Committee has  summed up the problem in the following way: while  the Director-General reports on the execution of ex-  plicit resolutions accompanied by detailed work  plans, Member States, under the programme, are  invited only to answer far less precise invitations  to action. This makes any general appreciation of  their contribution to the execution of the programme  from an international point of view much more diffi-  cult.
2,22 It shouldalso be noted that some Member  States have not until now found it possible to submit  reports, that the reports submitted are somewhat  lacking in uniformity, in form and content alike, and  that certain projects, in particular those of a regional  character, are not of interest to all the Member  States.
2.23 Moreover, it is impossible to ask nearly 100  Member States to submit reports as elaborate and  detailed as those of the Director-General, and it is  for this reason that the 1958 Reports Committee in-  vited Member States to submit reports on a small  number of topics selected by the General Conference.  Although the first experiment in selection was not  wholly successful, for reasons already stated in our  preceding report, it did enable the Committee to ex-  press some opinions regarding the execution of the  programme by Member States and by the Secretariat.  It therefore seems desirable to repeat the experiment.
2,24 The Committee next turned to the task of con-  sidering "the subjects 6n which the attention of the  General Conference should be concentrated at the  following session". After taking cognizance of the  work of the Programme Commission up to the date  of adoption of this Report by the Committee, the  latter decided to propose a certain number of topics  to be given detailed treatment in the reports of  Member States and of the Director-General for the
1960-1961 period, and to form the subject of the  Director-General's analysis to be submitted to the  Conference at its twelfth session,
2.25 The subjects proposed by the Committee are  the following: (1) significant examples of activities  undertaken as a result of international co-operation  which have contributed to the development of educa-  tion, science and culture in pursuance of resolutions  adopted by the General Conference at ita eleventh  seasion; (2) developments in adult education,  =“
448  EETINGS  .  following upon the International Conference held in  Montreal in August 1960; in particular, experiments  in the use of the mass media for educational purposes,  and production of reading materials and of audio-visual  aids for educational purposes; (3) progress of primary  education, notably in countries in process of rapid  economic and social development; (4) progress in  scientific research on arid lands; (6) examples of  effective means of fostering mutual appreciation of  Eastern and Western cultural values, These five  items are recommended by the Committee as a whole.  It should be mentioned that one member of the Com-  mittee proposed that the Director-General also be  asked to report on the rôle of Unesco in contributing  to the attainment of independence by colonial countries  and peoples; but this proposal was not accepted.
2,26 Having chosen these five subjects, the Com-  mittee nevertheless realized that such a selection, at  the present early stage, is bound to be tentative and  it believes that the Executive Board, at its session  towards the end of 1961, might add to the list, having  due regard to any proposals the Director-General  may submit in the light of developments which may  have occurred in the execution of the programme in  the first months of the new period and also in the light  of any new events of concern to Unes-o that may take  place. .
2.27 ‘As far as the form and presentation of the re-  ports > concerned, the Committee decided, with  reference to its findings listed under section 2, to  recommend that the Director-General be invited to  prepare, for the twelfth session of the General Con-  ference, an assessment of the work accomplished in
1960-1961, giving a synthetic and balanced descrip-  tion of that work from the point of view both of  Member States and of himself as Head of the Secre-  tariat, and véry detailed information on certain points.
2,28 With regard to the Director-General's annual  reports to Member States, prepared in accordance  with Article VI.3 (b) of the Constitution, the Com-  mittee came to the conclusion that detailed accounts  of the execution of the programme point by point,  were necessary in order that Member States might  be able to follow the progress achieved by the Organiza-  tion in particular projects. However, more detailed  introductions might enable the Director-General to  provide Member States with an annual broad survey  of the major lines of development that had emerged  in the execution of the programme during the previous  year.
2,29 The Committee considered that while the  editing of Member States! reports for 1958-1959 had  been carried out satisfactorily, the guidance given at  the tenth session had resulted in the exclusion of  some valuable material and in the printing of some  unnecessary detail, It accordingly recommends that  the Secretariat be allowed greater latitude in editing  the reports for 1960-1961; on the understanding that,  whenever possible, consultations will take place with  the governments or National Commissions concerned  regarding the material to be published and analysed  for the twelfth session;
2,30 Finally, the Committee considered the ques-  tion of the terms of reference and the membership of  the Reports Committee for the twelfth session of the  General Conference. It concluded that it might well  recommend terms of reference very similar to those   PLENARY  adopted at the tenth session, with the necessary ad-  .justments in respect of topics requiring special  attention, but decided to recommend that the member-  ship be increased to 30, At the same time, the Com-  mittee observed that {t would be desirable to request  Member States invited to serve onthe Reports Com-  mittee in 1962 to appoint as their representatives on  that Committee, in go far as this is possible, indi-  \viduals who have already been associated with the  drawing up of reports in their own countries and who  therefore have the experience required to work on  the Reports Committee, In addition, the Executive  Board should be authorized to replace delegations  unable to serve on this Committee and having failed  to send a representative to {ta first four meetings.  All these recommendations have been included in the  draft resolutions before you, which the Reports  Committee is proposing that you adopt.
3.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian);  Ladies and gentlemen, not many of the Presidents  of our Conference have had the pleasure of giving the  floor to such a charming Rapporteur. In the present  case, even our most experienced President, Mr,  Carneiro, might envy me,
3.2 Ithank Mrs, Kaminska and congratulate her  both on her great success and on her brilliant report.
3,3 It is obvious from this report that the Com-  mittee headed by Mrs, Kaminska has done a very  considerable amount of useful work, Her success  also goes to show that our Organization should be  bolder in promoting women to important jobs in  Unesco,
3.4 Let us proceed to consider and approve the  report, gentlemen, We have five resolutions, and I  shall put them up for discussion in turn.
3.5 Draft resolution no, 1 (document 11 C/11)  concerns the assessment of Unesco's work in 1858-
1959. Does anyone wish to speak on this, or are  there objections to this resolution? If not, we shall  regard this resolution - assessment of Unesco's  work in 1958-1959 - as having been unanimously  adopted, ;
3.6 We now have before us draft resolution no, 2  (document 11 C/11) concerning ‘Special reports  submitted by Member States on the action taken by  them upon the conventions and recommendations  adopted by the General Conference at its ninth and  tenth sessions". Does anyone wish to speak? No  one, apparently. Are there any objections to this  resolution, or shall we also adopt it unanimously?  There are no objections. The resolution is unani-  mously adopted. . °
11 C/11) which deals with reports on the activities  of the Organization. Does anyone wish to speak?  No. Are there any objections to this resolution?  None. We shall therefore consider resolution no.3  as also having been unanimously adopted.
3.8 We turn to resolution no, 4 (document 11 C/11),  special reports to be submitted to the General Con-  ference at its twelfth session on action takenby Member  States upon the conventions and the recommendations  adopted at the eleventh s -3sion. Is therè enyone wish-  ing to speak on this resolution? No. Is there any  objection to this resolution? None. We can consider  resolution no. 4 as having been unanimously adopted.  MEETINGS XXVHI
3,9 We now have draft resolution no.5 (document
11 C/11) concerning terms of referense and member-  ship of the Reports Committee. Does anyone wish to  speak on this resolution? No, Are there any objec-  tions? None. We shall consider the resolution as  having been unanimously adopted,
3,10 Now we have document 11 C/11 Annex II,  "General report on the initial special reports of  Member Stites on action taken by them upon the  conventions and recommendations adopted by the  General Conference of Unesco at its ninth and tenth  sessions", Mrs, Kaminska dealt with this report in  detail, Are there any observations on it? Does any-  one wish to speak on Annex II? No. Are there any  objections to its approval? None, Annex II is thus  unanimously approved.
3,11 We now have to approve the report of the  Reports Committee as a whole. Does anybody wish  to speak on it? No one. Is there any objection to the  adoption of this report as a whole? There are no ob-  jections. We can therefore consider this report as  having been unanimously adopted by our Conference.
3.12 The Director-General, Dr, Veronese, has  the floor,
4.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL (Translation from  the French);  Gentlemen, I am most gratified that you have ap-  proved this Report, I am happy to be able to express  my congratulations and my sincere thanks {o the  Reports Committee which drew it up, and particularly  to its distinguished Chairman and all its officers,
4.2 This Report is extremely full and detailed - and  this applies not only to the draft resolutions contained  in it, which you have adopted, but also to the body of  the report itself, which not only gives the Director-  General guidance for the future, but also containg  observations and sometimes even criticisms,
4.3 I should like to say here - not only because it  is my duty to do 80, but also because it is my sincere  conviction - that I shall conform to the decisions of  the General Conference with regard to the drawing up  of the reports, the analyses of the reports of Member  States, the request I am to make to Member States  concerning the drawing up of their reports and, more  particularly, the request of the Reports Committee  for fuller, coherent introductions.
5. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian}:  Gentlemen, after such a businesa-like and compe-  tent discussion of the Report of the Reports Committee,  let us turn to a discussion of the Third Report of the  Administrative Commission. I call upon Mr. Dovey,  Rapporteur of the Commission.  ADOPTION OF THE THIRD REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE  COMMISSION,
6.1 Mr, DOVEY (United Kingdom), Rapporteur of  the Administrative Commission: -  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the hon-  our to present for your consideration the Third Report of  the Administrative Commission (document 11 C/48 and  Addenda), For ease of presentation and understanding  the report has been divided into seven parts which are  labelled A toG, 1propose to present the report part by part.
6,2 Before I begin, I must draw attention to two  errors which have occurred in the Russian text only.  The first oie relates to paragraph 332, the last words  of which should read; "technical management ques-  tions"; in the Russian text the word "technical hue  been omitted and should be added. The second error  is a less substantial one and relates to paragraph 407,  again in the Russian text only, where some unneces-  sary quotation marks have appeared in the second  half of the first sentence, and should be deleted,
6.3 Turning now to the various parts of the report,  Part A is purely introductory and calls for no parti-  cular action by the Conference, but I would draw your  attention to paragraph 102, Since the proceedings of  the Commission have been recorded in its Summary  Record, this report confines itself to describing as  concisely as possible, the main lines of the discus-  sion on each item,
6.4 I shall now turn to Part B which deals with the  three parts of the budget and the two annexes which  were considered by the Administrative Commission,  Originally the Commission approved the proposals  of the Director-Géneral for Parts I, Ill and IV of the  budget, noting that a reduction of some $121,000 was  proposed in Part I, by comparison with 1959-1860,  At a later meeting (and this fact is not recorded in  the report) the Commission decided, however, to  recommend a cut of some $75,000 in these three  parts of the budget, Parts I, III and IV. This later  decision by the Commission was taken In relation to  the appropriation resolution, as recently as yester-  day, and for that reason, is not described in the  report, but will be dealt with in an addendum relating  to Part E of the report, which will be presented to  the Conference at a future plenary session.
6,5 The Commission also noted the estimates for  the Documents and Publications Service, contained  in Annex-I of document 11 C/5; and recommends for  the approval of the Conference the resolution on the  publications and visual material fund which is con-  tained in paragraph 229 of the report. This con-  .cludes my presentation of Part B of the third report  of the Administrative Commission.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  Gentlemen, we have heard the statement on Parts  A and B of the Third Report of the Administrative  Commission. There is no need to labour the fact  that the Administrative Commission has got through  a tremendous amount of work, and at its meeting  yesterday the Commission expressed its gratitude to  its Chairman, Mr, Barôn Castro, for hls skilful  conduct of its work and discussions. Let us consider  the parts of the report which have been presented.  Are there any comments on Part A, Introduction?  There are none, Can we take Part A as being unani-  mously approved? There are no objections, and we  can take the approval as being unanimous, We now  turn to Part B. Proposed Programme and Budget  for 1961-1962, which is item 18 on the agenda.  Does anyone wish to speak on Part B? No one. Are  there any objections? None, Then we can take it  that Part B, Proposed Programme and Budget for
1961-1962, is unanimously approved, We shall now  hear what Mr. Dovey has to say on the subsequent  _narte of the Third Report of the Adrainistrative  Commission
8,1 Mr. DOVEY (United Kingdom), Rapporteur of  the Administrative Commission:  Mr, President, ladies and genilemen, Part C of  the Report deals with a series of staff questions,  some of them of major and some 6f lesser importance,  The Conference will observe that {tem 24,7, which is  dealt with in paragraphs 331 to 333, has close affini-  ties with thie subject matter of Part B of the Report.
8.2 The firat two items in Part C - items 24,1 and
24,9, paragraphs 300 to 307 - which were taken to-  gether in the Commission, were the subject of a good  deal of attention and discussion, and the result of the  discussion is the draft resolution contained in para-  graph 306 and which the Commission now puts forward  for adoption by the Conference. The document put  forward by the Director-Genéral in connexion with  item 24,2 - the report on the problems of the pre-  entry preparation of candidates for the international  civil service and the post-entry training of probation-  ers - was merely noted by the Commission as recorded  in paragraph 308, But the documents in connexion  with item 24.3, amendments made by the Director-  General to the Staff Rules, raised an interesting tech-  nical question which the Director-General has under-  taken to examine further as described in paragraphs
309 to 313, Item 24,4 - salaries and allowances of  the staff - is dealt with in paragraphs 314-322 of the  Report. The various subjects covered by this item  had been closely examined by the Executive Board  just before the Conference and the Commission en-  dorsed the draft resolution in paragraph 316, which  includes some modifications made in accordance with  the Executive Board's views. The Commission also  endorsed without changes the resolutions in paragraphs
317 and 318 which the Board had also accepted without  change,
8.3 When it came to the subject discussed in para-  graphs 319-322 - salaries of certain staff members  recruited for projects financed from the Special Fund -  the Commission made some further amendments to a  draft resolution, the original text of which had been  modified to meet the views expressed by the Executive  Board, All four resolutions under item 24.4 - that  is to say those in paragraphs 316, 317, 318 and 322,  are recommended for adoption by the General Confer-  ence, As indicated in paragraph 323 of the Report,  item 24,5 - recruitment and promotion of staff - will  be the subject of an addendum to this present Report  which will be presented later. Under item 24,6 -  Administrative Tribunal - the resolution in paragraph
330 renews the present arrangements and the Com-  mission recommends its adoption-by the General  Conference.
8.4 As I have already mentioned, item 24.7 -  report on administrative costs and staff utilization -  has affinities with the matters discussed in Part B of  the Report. The subject is also relevant to the dis-  cussions whichledto the changes made by the Com-  mission in the figures in the Appropriation Resolu-  tion and to which I have already referred, The  resolution containing these changes will be the subject  of an addendum to the present Report, and will be  presented at a later stage.
8,5 The Commission showed great interest in the  Director-General's proposal under item 24.8 to pro-  vide Member States with executive officials on  request, and discussed this at some length, as   PLENARY MEETINGS  described in paragraphs 334-331. The Commission  recommends for adoption by the General Conference  the resolution in paragraph 338}
8,6 Item 25,1 - Report on the ‘Medical Benefits  Fund - is dealt with in paragrapz 340 which contains  two resolutions providing for minor modifications to  the Rules of the Fund and which'the Commission  recommends for adoption by thé Conference,
8,7 Finally, in Part C, items 25,2 and 25.3 relate  to the United Nations Joint Staff ‘Pension Fund, These  items are dealt with in paragraph 341 which contains  three resolutions which the Commission recommends  for adoption by the Conference. This concludes my  presentation of Part C of the Report,
8.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Russian);  Gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr, Dovey for  his very clear exposition of this part of the Report  of the Administrative Commission and pass on to  consideration and approval of the resolutions and of  Part C as a whole,
8.2 We first have to consider the resolution pre-  sented by the delegation of India and appearing in  paragraph 306, Part C, concerning the geographical  distribution of posts in the Unes:o Secretariat. Are  there any comments on this resclution? Does any-  one wish to speak? No onc, Are there any objections?  None, We can consider this resolution as adopted.
9.3 The next resolution concerns salaries of staff  in the General Service category, item 24.4 - salaries  and allowances, Are there any objections to this  resolution? None, This resolution, then, is also  adopted by the Conference. ‘
9.4 Would you please now turn your attention to  the resolution on salaries in the Professional cate-  gory, paragraph 317, and to that on allowances,  (document 11 C/ADM/16, Part II)? Are there any  objections to these two short resolutions? No objec-  tions. We can therefore take them as being unani-  mously adopted,
9.5 We also have to express an opinion regarding  two resolutions onthe salaries of certain staff members  recruited for projects financed from the Special Fund,  paragraph 322. Are there any objections to this resolu-  tion? None. We canconsider this resolutionas adopted.
9,6 We come to item 24,6, concerning the Admini-  strative Tribunal, Are there any objections to this  resolution? None, We can consider it adopted.
9.7 Paragraph 333 contains a resolution concerning  the report on administrative costs and staff utiliza-  tion. Are there any objections to this resolution?  None. We can consider it adopted.
9,8 Now comes item 24.8, Proposal of the Director-  General to provide Member States with executive offi-  clals on request (OPEX). Are there any objections  to this resolution? None. We can take it as adopted.
9.9 Item 25.1, Report on the Medical Benefits  Fund and the administrative expenses connected with  it, Are there any remarks or objections? None.  We can consider this item approved.’
9,10 Items 25.2 and 25,3, Report on the United  Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund and election of repre-  sentatives of Member States to serve on the Unesco  Staff Pension Committee for 1961-1962. Are there  any comments on these three short draft resolutions?  None. We can consider these resolutions adopted.
9,11 Now, gentlemen, I present for your discussion  and consideration Part C (Staff and related questions)  as a whole, with the exception of item 24.6, on which  a resolution will be presented somewhat later, as  has already been announced, In other words, we are  deciding on Part C of the Report of the Administrative  Commission, staff and rels.ud questions as a whole,  Are there any objections to Part C as a whole? None.  Does anyone wish to speak? No one, Gentlemen,  let us take it that Part C, staff and related questions,  is unanimously approved,
9.12 The Director-General, Dr, Veronese, wishes  to make a statement,
10,1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL (Translation from  the French):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I have no  intention of emphasizing the special importance of  any of the resolutions you havé adopted here, but I  should like to repeat what I myself and my representa-  tives have told the Administrative Commission, One  of the resolutions you have just adopted is of consider-  able significance, namely that dealing with administra-  tive costs and staff uiilization,
10,2 The Rapporteur has told you that the Administra-  tive Commission yesterday decided to adopt certain  proposals for cuts to which I did not feel able to agree.  Nevertheless, I bow to its decision, -
10.3 For the moment, therefore, I'shall confine  myself to saying that I attach the greatest importance  to the resolution in document 11 C/DR/192 Rev.1. 1  intend to give this resolution special priority in my  personal work and in that of my close collaborators,  in order that our action may conform to the recom-  mendations of the Administrative Commission, as  approved by the General Conference.
10.4 This is the general statement which I wanted  to repeat in plenary session, having already made it  to the Administrative Commission, It is my firm  intention to implement this resolution as quickly as  possible, in the spirit in which it was drawn up and  following it to the letter,
11.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  Gentlemen, we have heard the statement of the  Director-General to thé effect that he fully intends to  spend the means at his disposal in an economic and  efficient way. This, of course, is a matter of satis-  faction to us all.
11,2 Mr, Dovey now has the floor and will proceed  to speak on Part D of the Report of the Administrative  Commission,
12.1 Mr. DOVEY (United Kingdom), Rapporteur  of the Administrative Commission; A  Mr. President, Part D of the Report deals with  financial questions. Itemis 23:1 and 23.3 in this part  of the Report concérn statements of accounts and  reports by the External Auditor. The first deals with  the accounts of the Organization, and the second, the  Technical Assistance funds allotted to Unesco. There  are four résolutions, one in paragraph 403 and three  in paragraph 405, which the Commission recommends  for adoption by the Conference;
12,2 Item 23.4 which is dealt with in paragraphs
406-410 of the Report deals with the Administration  of the Working Capital Fund, The Commission   xxvii PLENARY  accepted a change made by the Executive Board in  the resolution on this subject, and made some further  changes of its own, One of tHese was the addition of  paragraph (e) of the resolution, which is the result  of the Commission's discussions on the Report of the  Headquarters Committee, The Conference may wish  to approve this paragraph (¢) upon condition of the  conclusions which it may reach on the subject of  Headquarters accommodation, on which a further  report by the Administrative Commission, document
11 C/51, will be submitted later. This concludes my  presentation of Part D.
13,1 The PRESIDENT {Translation from the  Russian);  Let us proceed to consider these resolutions and  Part D, Financial questions, as a whole. The first  resolution is in paragraph 403, Financial Reports  and Statements of the Director-General, Are there  any objections to this resolution? None, Let us  consider it as adopted. Then there are three further  resolutions in paragraph 405. Are there any objec-  tions to these resolutions? None, Let us take them  as adopted. Lastly there is the resolution under  item 23.4, Administration of the Working Capital  Fund, contained in paragraph 410, with the observa-  tion regarding paragraph (e) about which our  Rapporteur spoke. Dothe delegates have any points to  make? Are there any objections? None, We can  take this resolution as adopted. We have thus had an  opportunity of expressing our opinion on Part D,  Financial questions, as a whole. Are there any ob-  jections regarding Part Dasa whole? Or any coni-  ments? None, We can consider Part D as unard-  mously approved. We have Part E to deal with, buf  the draft resolution will be presented tomorrow, and  we shall therefore pass straight on to Part F,  International non-governmental organizations.
13.2 I call upon the Rapporteur,  . 14, Mr, DOVEY (United Kingdom), Rapporteur of  the Administrative "Commission; .  Mr. President, Part F of the report sets out the  results of a complete re-examination of the Direc-  tives conceruing Unesco's relations with international  non- governmental organizations. The revised direc-  tives were the .subject of lengthy discussion by the  Commission, as a result of which the Commission  presents the resolition contained in paragraph 618,  “which in turn presents the full text of the revised  directives. A further resolution is contained in  paragraph 619 regarding the transitional measures  to be adopted pending the entry into force of the new  directives, Another resolution in paragraph 620  deals with the renewal of formal agreements with  international non-governmental organizations, And  finally, a resolution in paragraph 623 deals with the  Executive Board's proposals concerning the admis-  sion of international non-governmental organizations  to consultative status, All these resolutions are  recommended by the Commission for adoption by the  Conference. The Conferencé will also wish to note  the conclusions reached by the Commission, contained  in paragraph 622, in relation to item 21.4 of the  agenda - Report on the Geographical Extension of  International Non-Governmental Organizations, This  concludes my presentation of Part F of the Report. -  “-  MEETINGS  “452
15,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Russian);  Gentlemen, we have heard the statement by the  Rapporteur on the last part of the report presented to  us, and can proceed to consider the resolutions in  the report, this part of which gave rise to much dis-  sension and discussion in the Administrative Com-  mission. Not ail the delegates were of the same  opinion, but our doçument reflects to some extent  not only these divergences but also the mutual under-  standing that was reached in the Commission in the  course of its deliberations.
15,2 Let us now consider the individual resolutions  in Part F and especially resolution 618 on the Direc-  tives concerning Unesco's relations with international  non-governmental organizations, Are there any com-  ments? None, Objections? None. Let us consider  these Directives as approved by our Conference,
15.3 We now have to turn our attention to paragraph
619, item 21,2, Transitional measures pending the  entry into force of the new Directives, Are there any  comments on this item? None. If there are no objec-  tions, we shall take the transitional measures as be-  ing approved by our Conference.
15.4 Item 21,3, Renewal of formal agreements  concluded with international non-governmental  organizations, Does anyone wish to speak? No one.  If there are no objections, we shall consider thia  item as approved.
16.5 Item 21,4, Report où the geographical exten-  sion of international non-governmental organizations.  Are there any objections to this item? Nore. Let us  take this section of the Report as approved.
15,6 We now come to item 21,5, Consideration of  the Executive Board's proposals concerning the ad-  mission of international non-governmental organiza-  tions to consultative arrangements. This is paragraph
623. Are there any objections? None. If there are  no objections, we shall take the item as approved.
15.7 I now ask your opinion on Part F, International  non-governmental organizations, as a whole. Does  anyone wish to speak on Part F as a whole? If not,  and if there are no objections, let us consider Part  F of the Report of the Administrative Commission as  unanimously approved and call on Mr. Dovey to speak  upon the last part of his report, Legal questions.
16.1 Mr, DOVEY (United Kingdom) Rapporteur of  the Administrative Commission: -  Mr, President, Part G of the Report records the  Commission's discussions on items 22,1, 22,2, 22.3  and 22.4 of the agenda, in the light of the Report of.  the Legal Committee on these subjects.
16,2 Item 22.1, which is dealt with in paragraph
701, requires no further “action, but the Commission  recommends to the Conference that it adopt the resolu-  tions in paragraphs 702, 703 and 704, in relation to  the other three items. Paragraphs 705- 707 record  the main Lines of the discussion which took place in  the Commission in connexion with item 22.4, and  which it decided to include in its Report.
16.3 This, Mr. President, concludes my presentation  of the Third Report of the Administrative Commission.
17.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  Gentlemen, we have heard a clear exposition of  the last part of the Report of the Administrative   PLENARY  Commission on Legal Questions. Âre there any ob-  jections, particularly as regards item 22,2, draft  amendment to the Rules of Procedure, under para-  graph 702, If there are no amendments, let us con-  sider the iterri as approved, We come to item 22.3,  proposed amendments to Rules 55, 58 and 59 of the  Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, Are  there any objections? None, Let us take this section  as approved, Lastly, a final observation concerning  item 23,4, paragraph 704. Are there any questions,  commerrts or objections? If not, we can consider  this resolution as adopted, and ask for your opinion  on Part G, Legal questions, as a whole, Are there  any comments on Part G aa a whole? None. Then  let us take Part G on Legal questions as unanimously  approved.
17,2 We now have to express an opinion on the  Third Report of the Administrative Commission as a  whole, with the exception of those ‘sections which will  be presented a little later, Does any one wish to  speak on the Report of the Administrative Commission  as a whole? There does not appear to be anybody.
1 therefore put the report as a whole to the vote.  Does anyone wish to speak against this Report? No  one. In that case, let us consider the Third Report  of the Administrative Commission as being unani-  mously approved, -
17.3 I should like to say that the Administrative  Commission has effectively got through a great deal  of work. It hnld 32 meetings. Naturally, there were  heated differences of opinion and stormy discussions  in the course of its meetings, and the records of the  meetings reflected this clash of opinion. Not all the  proposals won approval, not all wishes were met,  but the spirit of solidarity which prevailed in the  Commission and which we are now witnessing in the  discussion of the Report has enabled the business to  be brought to a happy conclusion.
17.4 1 should like to congratulate Mr. Barôn  Castro, all the members of the Commission, and  MEETINGS XX VIII  the Rapporteur, Mr. Dovey, on the successful way  in which this work has been completed and the oppor-  tunity we have had here of approving as a whole this  very intricate and difficult section of the Report of  the Administrative Commission,
17,5 Gentlemen, our work is coming to a close.  Before the end I shall call upon Mr, Montagnier to  make his regular communication about our future  work.
18.1 Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) (Translation  from the French);  Mr. President, now, that the General Conference  has finished its consideration of the Third Report of  the Administrative Commission, there is no need for  {t to hold a plenary meeting this afternoon, since it  hag concluded its agenda for today.
18.2 This morning, the General Committee of the  Conference, after listening to the Report of the  Chairman of the Frogramme Commission and the  observations of the Director-General, noted that it  was possible for the Conference to finish its work by  midday on 15 December, It accordingly authorized  the President of the Conference to convene a plenary  meeting at 9 p,m, on 14 December, if necessary,  However, if the Programme Commission's Report  is adopted as quickly as that of the Administrative  Commission, it can be expected that the General  Conference will conclude its work tomorrow afternoon  or after an evening meeting.
19, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  Gentlemen, we have heard the statement and we  shall, I imagine take it as a guiding line. I declare  the twenty-eighth plenary meeting concluded and  thank you for your attention and your kind co-  operation. The meeting is closed,  The meeting rose at 12.30 p.m.