18 November 1860, at 11 a.m,  Prosident: Mr. Akale- Work ABTE- WOLD (Ethiopia)  CONTENTS  Report of the President on the first meeting of the General  Committee of the Conference and adoption of the propased  organization of work of the eleventh session  Address by the Minister of Education of Ceylon , . . . . . .  Explanation of votes on the question of the deletion of item
16.6 of the agenda  Adoption of the first report of the Administrative Commission  (Part]) « . « «vv.  Address by H, E, Father Rapailler, Head of the delegation  ICE IS SE I) 110
112  of Haiti DEC Ia «aa  REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT ON THE FIRST MEETING OF  THE GENERAL COMMITTEE OF THE CONFERENCE AND  ADOPTION OF THE PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF WORK  OF THE ELEVENTH SESSION
1.1 The PRESIDENT (Tranelation from the French):  The sixth plenary meeting is called to order.  Before turning to the items on the agenda of this  morning's meeting, it is my duty to submit to the  Conference a report on the first meeting of the  General Committee, which took place yesterday  morning,
1.2 The General Committee considered the request  for the inclusion of a new item on the agenda sub-  mitted by thé delegation of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics: "Statement on the grant of inde-  pendence to the colonial countries and peoples".
1,3 For the purpose of considering this request  and the suggestions made by several members of the  Committee, the General Committee decided to ap-  point a working party from among its members to  include the representatives of the following Member  States; Brazil, France, Ghana, India, Mexico,  Pakistan, Tunisia, the United Kingdom, the Union of  Soviet Socialict Republics and the United States of  America.
1.4 In addition, the Chairman of the Executive  Board rubmitted the proposed organization of work  of the eleventh session of the General Conference.
1.5 As no objections were raised in the General  Committee to the proposals made in the Executive  Board document, or to those contained in document
11 C/2 Rev., submitted by the Director-General and  relating to the organization of work of the Programme  Commission and the constitution of working parties,  I imagine that the General Conference will in its turn  approve these proposals without discussion.
1.6 Are there no objections? The proposals of  the Executive Board and the Director-General are
117  approved, The proposed organization of work of the  eleventh session of the General Confe-ence contained  in documents 11 C/2 and 11 C/2 Rev. is accordingly  adopted, subject to any changes which the General  Conference, the Commissions and Committees may  sce fit to make, on the proposal of the General  Committee in the course of the sesrion,
1.7 The plan for the organization of work provides  for the general debate on the reports of the Director-  General on the activities of the Organization in 1858  and 1859 to take place in plenary session from 21 to
1.8 So far, 60 delegations have notified their  intention of participating in this general debate.
1.9 As already announced in the Conference  Journal, delegations which have not yet handed in  their names are asked to do so by this evening. The  list of countries and speakers will appear in the  Journal of 19 November and be submitted to the  General Committee at its meeting on the morning of
1.10 Before going on to the main item on this  morning's agenda, which is the first report of the  Administrative Commision on items 23,2.2 and
23.2.1 of the agenda, I shall be calling on the dele-  gates of Cuba and Uruguay who have asked to be  allowed to explain their votes at the last plenary  meeting. The two delegations concerned have  promised me that their explanations will be very short.  ADDRESS BY THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION OF CEYLON
1.11 Ihave pleagure inannouncing the presence arson  us this morning of H.E. Mr. Mahmud Badfudin, Minister  of Education and Broadcasting of Ceylon, who is pass-  ingthrough Paris and would like to give a message of  friendship and encouragement to the General Conference.
1.12 I call upon Mr. Mahtnud Badiudin.   PLENARY  Mr. BADIUDIN (Ceylon):  Mr. President, my first words are words of thanks  to express my sincere gratitude to you, Sir, and to  the distinguished representativés of so many nations  assembled here for according me the privilege of  speaking to you at this eleventh session of the General  Conference of Unesco,
2.2 1 should like, as the Minister of Education of  Ceylon, to say in all humility that I consider this ges-  ture on your part as an honour to my country rather  than to me, who am only its loyal servant. My  country, Sir, since the attainment of political inde-  pendence in 1048, and more especially since the  establishment in 1956 of what has been rightly called  a People's Government, has been engaged in the  arduous task of nation building. In so doing however,  we have not been unmindful of our responsibilities to  the comity of nations, We have been a member of  Unesco since 1949 and, according to our strength and  the means at our command, have tried to fulfil our  responsibilities towards this organization whose  lofty aim, the establishment of the defences of peace
111 the minds of men, 18 so closely linked with our  owt. spiritual aspirations,
2,3 I should liké to recall that my country was ons  of the firat to assist in breaking down the bavriers  which keep man from man, by ratitying the Unesco  agreement on the importation of educational, scienti-  fic and cultural materials. We have of late become  a member of the international centre at Rome for the  preservation and restoration of éultural property.  We have been among the first signatories to the  International Convention for the Exchange of Offlèial  Publications. It would be possible to add many other  items to this list but I have mentioned these efforts  not as evidence of achievement but rather as proof  of our dedication to the cauges that spur Unesco to  noble endeavour, We recall with pride that it was  long ago that we began the implementation of one of  Unesco's main goals, namely, the provision of educa-  tional opportunity for all our people,
2,4 Ceylon is a land of ancient culture where  people of many races and creeds have for centuries  lived in harmony, making distinctive contributions  to a common cultural heritage, One of the chief  features of this heritage has been a search for en-  lightenment, particularly through the portals of  knowledge. In pursuance of this effort, love of  education has always characterized our people. It  is no matter for surprise, therefore, that in spite  of many political vicissitudes, Ceylon enjoys very  high literacy, about 80%, the second highest of any  country in Asia.
2.5 We Lave a system of free education from the  kindergarten to the university and even beyond, It  was as a result of this broad basis of education that  we were able to institute universal adult suffrage  very early in the history of modern Asia, and have  been able to conduct the elections of political bodies  in an orderly manner. There has never been in our  country any discrimination in the {mplementation of  education; there is no discrimination in the salaries  paid to teachers on the basis of sex; free books and  free midday meals are provided to such children ag_-  need them. We have three universities, two of  which are devoted especially to the study of the cul-  ture of the East,
2.6 As a result of various circumstances over  which we have had no control, our education in  recent times has had rather a haphazard develop-  ment. Ihave had the privilege of introducing in  Parliament a few weeks ago a Bill whose aim is to  provide a unified system of education for thé whole  country. In the system of education which we en-  visage, special emphasis will be placed on the  necessity of imparting to the children a sense of  spiritual values, for it 18 a part of our tradition that  above all man is a spiritual being. The fulfilment  of this aim will necessarily call for the solution of  numerous and complex problems.
2.7 It is in this connexion, in particular, that I  should like to take this opportunity of expressing  our desire to enlist the assistance of this Organiza-  tion in the great tasks that lle ahead of us, We are  fully aware of the assistance given by Unesco to  many countries including ours, and I should lke to  make gpecial mention of the assistance given to  Ceylon in the teaching of science in achools, indeed,  a Unesco mission is working in Ceylon at present.
2,8 As Ihave already indicated, we have made  what we consider to be great strides in satisfying  our educational needs, but a great deal more re-  mains to be done and we feel that we have shown by  the successes that have s0 far attended our efforts  that we deserve the assistance of those who are in  a position to help in the task of national development  in other countries. We propose, therefore, at the  proper time and in the proper place, to make known  our requirements, but I should like to make an appeal  to you now to help us in our endeavour to the best of  your ability. Throughout her history Ceylon has  been a good neighbour. She has long served as a  centre for the dissemination of culture, While we  look back with pride into our past, we look forward  with hope and confidence to being able to play our  part in the advancement of knowledge and the happi-  ness of mankind,
2.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  ; French):  I thank the Minister of Education of Ceylon for  his remarkable statement and am sure that the  Conference will bear all his advice in mind. For  its part, the Conference hopes that Ceylon will co-  operate fully with Unesco.  EXPLANATION OF VOTES OM THE QUESTION OF THE DELETION  OF ITEM 15.6 OF THE AGENDA
3.2 Inow call upon H.E, Mr. Lazo, Head of the  delegation of Cuba,
4,1 Mr. LAZO (Cuba) (Translation from the  Spanish):  Mr. President and delegates, in view of the  President's rèquest, I shall try to explain the vote  of my delegation as briefly as possible.
4.2 Cuba wishes to staté that it favoured, and  voted for the idea of discussing the question of dis-  armament within the framework of Unesco, in other  words, with reference to education, science and  culture, mainly because, in so doing, Unesco would  be fulfilling a duty placed upon it by its Constitution.   vi PLENARY
4.3 We hold, and shall continue to hold, that this  motion is neither for or against any State, or any  Unesco official, and has no specific case in mind,
4,4 It is the Cuban view that specific cases of this  kind are a matter for other international organizations,  the United Nations, for instance. Luckily for us,  Unesco is concerned with general cases, ideological  problems and trends in education, science and cul-  ture. That being so, an opportunity should always  be given here to debate the question of disarmament,  just as it is for that of illiteracy, for example, and  other similar questions,
4.5 The delegation of Cuba accordingly voted in  that sense, considering that it was our duty under  the Unesco Constitution to discuss the question of  disarmament. And in that connexion, I might say .  that, to our honour, we in Unesco are more often  concerned with duties than with rights.
4.6 For the reasons I have given, Cuba voted in  the way I have outlined and therefore rejects as in-  correct any other version of ita motives or aims,  such aa those attributed to it by certain writers in  the English-language press,
4.7 Cuba, voting objectively and without prejudging  the issue will come down in faveur of discussing any  such general topic that may be included in the agenda,  including such matters as the creation in the world  of an atmosphere conducive to peace or the eradica-  tion of illiteracy throughout the world. Its vote can-  not have any political implications, nor have we any  specific cases in mind, It is purely a matter of  general questions, of duties which, I repeat, are  laid upon us by the very Constitution of Unesco.
4.8 These reasons alone, to the exclusion of  whatever narrow or petty interpretations that may  have been placed on our vote, have impelled Cuba,  and will prompt it on future occasions to vote for the  inclusion of these items of general interest which,  as educators, scientists and men of culture, we have  the duty of discussing and developing, without any  let or hindrance on procedural grounds. Cuba is  convinced that procedural law must never prevail  over substantive law,
5. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H,E, Mr, Eduardo Pons, Head of the  delegation of Uruguay.
6.1 Mr. PONS (Uruguay) (Translation from the  Spanish):  Mr. President and delegates, I should like to ex-  plain the two votes cast by the delegation of Uruguay  at the plenary sessions on 15 and 16 November with  regard to the inclusion of an item on disarmament in  the agenda of this Conference, ;
6.2 My country has always been by tradition - and  still is with heart and soul - a firm partisan of disarma-  ment. Ithas supportedthe cause of disarmament when-  ever the subject has been raised at meetings of competent  and appropriate bodies, Inthe votes that have been de-  clared, we acted strictlyin accordance withthe sub-  stancn of the proposal submitted to the assembly, con-  sidering that it would be out of place for Unesco, an  agency primarily concerned with education, science  and culture, to deal with a subject so complex and re-  mote from its objectives as disarmament. That is  our position and the significance of our vote,  MEETINGS
6.3 Nor can we accept the argument advanced in  favour of discussing this subject, that the armas!  race will lead to war and thus bring about the down-  fall of education, sclence and culture. If we were  to adopt so sweeping a criterion, Unesco would have  to consider every international and political prob-  len as a potential threat to peace and, therefore, to  culture.
6.4 There are other interrational bodies which  are competent to discuss these problems, and we  should avoid at all costs turning Unesco into a politi-  cal organ.
6.5 I am authorized to state, Mr, President, that  this explanation of vote also stands good,as far as  disarmament is concerned, for the other delegations  and fellow-countries of Latin America, who, too,  ave staunch advocates of disarmament.  ADOPTION OF THE FIRST REPORT OF THE  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION (PART 1)
7. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call on Mr. Dovey, Rapporteur of the Administra-  tive Commission,
8.1 ‘Mr, DOVEY (United Kingdom), Rapporteur of  the Administrative Commission:  Mr, President, I have the honour to present Part
1 of the first report of the Administrative Commission
(11 C/14). The Commission has worked hard and  rapidly in order that this report might be presented  to you today. Its first working meeting was held  only two days ago.
8.2 The document ts numbered 11 C/14 Part I,  Part II will be presented for your consideration at  a Jater date, You will notice that in the text before  you the first two paragraphs of Part II are included,  but in fact we shall not be discussing these para-  graphs this morning. Indeed, the Commission itself  has expressed the wish to see them again before  they are presented to you, so I would ask you to  ignore paragraphs 12 and 13 in the text before you;  these two paragraphs will be presented to you later  on with the remainder of 11 C/14 Part II.
8.3 There is a small correction to be made in the  French and Spanish versions: in the second line of  paragraph 5 the word "political" should be deleted.  This correction has heen made in the English and  Russian versions but has not been made in the  French and Spanish versions, I shall be grateful if  delegates will delete the word "political" from the  second line of paragraph 5 of the French and Spanish  versions,
8.4 The first part of the Commission's report  deals with a number of questions related to the con-  tributions of Member States. The various proposals  which the Commission had before it are set out in  document 11 C/ADM/5, The report (11 C/14) con-  tains five draft resolutions and 1 will deal with the  subject matter of each one in turn.
8.5 The first two paragraphs are purely intro-  ductory. Then paragraphs 3-7 deal with a proposal  to reduce the percentage contribution of the Republic  of China and to reduce and amortize its debt in re-  spect of past years, This proposal was the subject  of a report by the Executive Board which recommended   PLENARY  the acceptance of the proposal and a number of conse-  quential measures, The Administrative Commission  endorses the Board's view and recommends that the  General Conference adopt the draft resolution proposed  by the Executive Board and set out without amendment  in paragraph 7 of the Commission's report (11 C/14).
8.6 Under the general heading Collection of Contribu-  tions, paragraph 8 (a) deals with the right to vote of  two Member States - Honduras and Bolivia - whose  contributions have been in arrears, but who have now  taken steps to pay subetant:al portions of their arrears,  The Administrative Commission recommends adoption  of the draft resolution in paragraph 8 (a).
8.7 Paragraph 8 (b) deals with the special arrange-  ments for the collection of the contributions of  Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Poland. The circum-  stances which led to the making of apeclal arrange-  ments in the past for these three Member States are  described in detail in paragraphs 2-13 of Part III of  document 11 C/ADM/5. The Administrative Com-  mission recommends that the General Conference  should adopt the draft resolution in 11 C/14 para-  graph 8 (b). This refers In fact to the main draft  resolution on the currency of contributions set out in  paragraph 8, and notably to the provision which  authorizes the Director-General to accept payment  from any Member States in the national currency of  a Member State where he considers that there is a  foreseeable need of a substantial amount in that  currency,
8.8 Paragraph 8 (c) is the record of the statements  made by a number of Member States in connexion with  the payment of contributions,
8.8 Paragraph 9 contains the draft resolution on  the currency of contributions. This draft follows the  lines of corresponding provisions in earlier years  and the Administrative Commission accordingly  recommends its adoption by the General Conference,
8.10 Paragraph 10 deals with the scale of contribu-  tions, that is to say the list of the portions of the  assessment level in the budget attributable to each  Member State, expressed as a percentage, The  Administrative Commission was faced with a choice  between the two methods of calculating the list set  out in document 11 C/ADM/5 Part I and Annex I.  The Commission, like the Director-General, is in  favour of the first alternative, under which assess-  ments on new Member-States will not be incorporated  in the acale for 1961-1962 but will be treated as mis-  cellaneous revenue. This procedure would be the  same as the one adopted recently by the United  Nations in respect of contributions for 1961. There  will be no general revision of the United Nations  scale until 1962. The proposed resolution on the  subject of the scale is given at the end of paragraph
10 of the report (11 C/14) and the Commission re-  commends its acceptance by the General Conference.  Paragraph 11 records a statement by the delegation  of China,  £.11 In conclusion, it may be of assistance to the  Conference to sum up the main provisions of this  Part I of the Commission's first report (11 C/14).  Paragraph 7 presents a draft resolution on the pro-  posals concerning the contribution of the Republic of  China, Paragraph 8 (a) presents a draft resolution  about the right to vote of Honduras and Bolivia, whose  contributions have been in arrears. Paragraph 8 (b)
113  MEETINGS Vi  is a draft resolution about the special arrangements  for the contributions of Czechoslovakia, Hungary  and Poland. Paragraph 9 presents a draft resolution  about the currency of contributions. Finally, para-  graph 10 is a draft resolution concerning the scale  of contributions. These are the five draft resolutions  which the Administrative Commission proposes that  the General Conference should adopt and which I  have the honour to commend to you in the name of  the Commission,  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I thank the Rapporteur for his statement, Dis-  cussion of the report of the Commission is now open.  I call on H.E, Mr, Slipchenko, Head of the delega-  tion of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic.
10.1 Mr, SLIPCHENKO (Ukrainian Soviet  Soclalist Republic) (Translation from the Russian);  Mr, President, fellow delegates, on behalf of the  delegations of the Soviet Union and of the Ukrainian  Soviet Socialist Republic, I wish to state that the  discussion of any question relating to China, without  the participation of its lawful representatives, is  inadmissible, and the Governments of our countries  will consider any decisions taken on matters con-  cerning China as lllegal,
10.2 In the report which has just been submitted  to the consideration of the General Conference, the  Administrative Commission recommends adoption  of a resolution regarding contributions and arrears  in payments of contributions by the Chiang Kai-shel  clique, In this connexion, allow me to remind you  that the delegation of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic, together with many other delegations,  when the agenda was being discussed, rejected  attempts to place on the Member States, including  the économically underdeveloped countries, the  burden of paying the contributions of the Chiang  Kai-shek people in Unesco. We firmly declare now,  as we did before, that the Chiang Kai-shek clique  can in no way be considered as representing China.  We shall never grow tired of repeating that the  Government of the Chinese People's Republic,  elected by the Chinese people and exercising full  authority over all Chinese territory, is alone en-  titled to represent China. )
10.3 Many delegations here and at the session of  the Administrative Commission strongly objected  to the discussion of a question concerning China in  the absence of its lawful representatives. Once  again an attempt is being made to impose upon us an  illegal decision, namely to consider the question of  contributions in the absence of the representatives  of the Chinese people,
10.4 It is also well-known to all that after the  failure of the manoeuvre regarding "undistributed  appropriations", a new method is tiow being im-  posed upon us, which is aimed at obliging the  Member States, including the economically under-  developed countries, to pay for the presence in  Unesco of the Chiang Kai-shek ghosts, The delega-  tion of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic o.ice  more states cavegorically that the discussion of  any question regarding China, without the participa-  tion of her lawful representatives is an absolutely  inadmissible act.   vi
10,5 Our delegation is authorized to state that the  authorities of the Soviet Union and of the Ukrainian  Soviet Socialist Republic will consider any decisions  taken on this question as unlawful; we have already  PLENARY  spoken in this sense in the Administrative Commission,  We shall therefore vote against the recommendation  contained in the report of the Administrative Com-  mission on the question of the contributions of the  Chiang Kal. shek people.
10,6 Mr, President, permit me now to put forward  our views regarding the scale of payments for 1961.
1862. The Administrative Commission recommends  adoption of a resolution which, in connexion with the  reduction of the contribution of the Chiang Kai-shek  people, will entail an increase in the percentage of  the contributions of the Member States of Unesco,  despite the increased membership of our Organiza-  tion. One is bound to ask the question: why indeed  should the countries, including the countries of Asia,  Africa and Latin America, which are in great need  of resources for carrying out the most urgent tasks  in developing their economy, eradicating illiteracy,  raising the level of the people's standards of life and  of culture and training national key personnel, waste  the money of the people for the sake of the political  machinations of the United States of America? These  countries, and especially the States of Africa, expect  considerable help from Unesco in the field of educa-  tion, asclence and culture, but instead of this they  are being asked to pay for the Chiang Kai-shek people,  these political and financial bankrupts.
10.7 We have already stated that these and similar  questions arise here, only because the Chiang Kai-  shek corpses are illegally occupying the place of the  People's Republic of China in Unesco, If China were  represented in Unesco by its lawful representatives,  namely the representatives of the People's Republic  of China (we shall go on repeating this) then no time  would be wasted on discussing such problems, and,  what is most important, we would never have to deal  with the question of looking for funda at the expense  of other States in order to cover a debt,
10.8 The Soviet Union and the Ukrainian Soviet  Socialist Republic will not pay into the budget of  Unesco the part of their contribution which is to be  used to cover the arrears of payment of the contribu-  tion of the Chiang Kai- shek people, who should be  ejected from here without delay.
10.9 Our delegation is authorized to state that  the Governments of the Soviet Union and of the  Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic will consider  any resolutions regarding China, which are  adopted without the participation of its lawful  representatives, that is the People's Republic of  China, as unlawful, As. long as the Chiang Kai-  shek people continue to occupy unlawfully the place -  of China in Unesco, enormous political, financial  and moral harm will be inflicted on this Organiza-  tion,
11. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French):  I would remind you that the Conference is now  discussing the first draft resolution, which appears  in paragraph 7 of the Administrative Commission's  report, 1 call upon the delegate of the Byelorussian  Soviet Socialist Republic.
12,1 Mr, UMREIKO (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic) (Translation from the Russian);  Mr, President and fellow delegates, the Head of  the delegation of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic clearly stated, on behalf of his Government,  during the plenary meeting of the Conference on
15 November that our Government does not recog-  nize any credentials of the Chiang Kai-shek clique  in Unesco and that in international organizations,  including Unesco, the only lawful representatives  must be those of the People's Republic of China,  authorized by the Government of that country,
12.2 When the question of contributions and the  arrears of payment of the Chiang Kai-shek clique  was under discussion in the Administrative Com-  mission, we likewise categorically protested against  the adoption of any resolution, because the Chiang  Kai-shek people represent no-one in Unesco, How-  ever, contrary to legitimate and just requirements,  the Administrative Commission adopted a resolution  giving the right to vote to one who cannot represent  great China and its people at the Conference and in  Unesco. Moreover, one wishes to impose on all of  us Member States of Unesco, the burden of making  up the arrears in payment of contributions of the  Chiang Kai-shek people, which amount to a consider-  able sum. In other words, the purpose of approving  the new scale of contributions and thereby reducing  the contributions of the Chiang Kai-shek people is to  maintain these parasites in Unesco at the expense  of the Member States,
12,3 On behalf of the Government of the  Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, I declare  once more that henceforth it has no intention of pay-  ing for the Chiang Kai-shek clique in Unesco, Let  the sur; orters of these political ghosts maintain  thcia chemselves. We shall give not one farthing  towards paying the arrears of the Chiang Kai-shek  people. Any resolution adopted here in the absence  of the lawful representatives of the People's Republic  of China, we cannot recognize as lawful,
13. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H,E. Mr, Cheng Tien-Fong, Head of  the delegation of China.
14,1 Mr. CHENG Tien-Fong (China):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, my remarks  will be very brief. Owing to conditions beyond the  control of the Chinese Government, the payment of  the Republic of China's contributions to Unesco has  fallen in arrears. My Government, however, has  paid a token contribution annually, and the amount  has increased from US $15, 000 to US $60,000, Yet  my Government is not content with this situation  and wishes to reach a solution of this difficult and  vexing problem once and for all, Consequently, my  Government proposed in March 1960 that China's  assessment be reduced from 4.74% to 2.5% and  starting from 1959 it will pay, not a token contribu-  tion, but the fuil assessment. The reduced amount  for the period 1959 to 1960 will be paid immediately.  The annual payments of more than $320, 000 in both
1959 and 1960 are vastly disproportionate to the  national income of the Republic of China and con-  firm my Government's sincere desire, at great  sacrifice, to contribute our share to Unesco. With   PLENARY  regard to the arrears, my Government has proposed  to amortize a reduced amount of such arrears in a  period of 50 years.
14.2 I wish to thank the Executive Board and the  Director-General for the report to the General  Conference (document 11 C/ADM/5 Part IV) and to  thank the Administrative Commission for its speedy  adoption of the draft resolution contained in its first  report (document 11 C/14 Part 1, paragraph 7). 1  request that, in the interest of Unesco as well as of  China, this draft resolution be immediately adopted  by thu General Conference,
14,3 Now I must say a word about the statements  made by delegates from the Ukraine and Byelorussia.  Although the question of China's representation has  been settled by the General Conference they are rals-  ing it here again, They seem to have adopted obstruc-  tion tactics with regard to this problem; they obstructed  {ts solution in the Executive Board and in the  Administrative Commission and now they are obstruct-  ing it in the General Conference, I am completely at  a loss to understand why they are repeatedly going  against the wishes of the majority, They argue that  by reducing China's assessment the financial burden  of other Member States will be increased, The con-  trary is true; with a few exceptions, the payments of  all other Member States will be decreased, Further-  more, the language they have used is extremely  slanderous. While I do not wish to lower myself to  their level by calling their leaders names, I do wish  to make a strong protest and to remind you, Mr.  President, that such language which insults the Head  of a Member State should be forbidden in Unesco and  should be deleted from the record.
15, The PRESIDENT (Translated from the French):  I call upon Mr, Siikala, delegate of Finland.  Mr, SIKALA (Finland):  Mr. President, my statement concerns the scale  of contributions. The delsgation of Finland considers  it unwise to depart from the scale of contributions  adopted by the United Nations, except to take account  of differences in membership. This opinion has al-  ready been expressed in the Administrative Com-  mission, As you know, Unesco lacks the machinery  to make the calculations necessary to fix the scale,  which 18 based on a number of population and economic  data, and it would be a very costly business to estab-  lish such machinery. We feel that the resolution  contained in paragraph 7 of document 11 C/14 violates  an important administrative principle for reasons  that we cannot consider pertinent, as has been stated  by several delegates inthe Administrative Commission.  We shall therefore vote against the adoption of the  draft resolution in paragraphs 7 and 8 and we shall  further abstain inthe vote onthe draft resolution con-  tained in paragraph 10 (e) of the same document. Other  parts and draft resolutions of the report we accept.
17. Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) (Translation  from the French):  The President has asked me to point out that, for  proper conduct of business, the Conference should  examine in order the five draft resolutions sub-  mitted by the Rapporteur of the Administrative Com-  mission. Consequertly, the President requests  MEETINGS VI  delegations wishing to speak to confine themselves,  for the moment, to comments on the first draft  resolution submitted to the General Conference,  which appears in paragraph 7 of the Commission's  report.
18. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French);  I call upon the delegaie of Bulgaria.
19.1 Mr. PETROV (Bulgaria) (Translation from  the Russian):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, my remarks  concerning the first report of the Administrative  Commiasion will be brief, I wish to speak on item
23.2.2 of the agenda, namely, "Communication  from the Government of the Republic of China con-  cerning the contribution and the arrears in payment  of contributions of China”. The delegation of the  Bulgarian People's Republic has already stated in  the Commission that the latter has no right to dis-  cuss this question, as it was raised by a group  which is unrepresentative of the Chinese people and  is unlawfully occupying the place of the Chinese  People's Republic in Unesco,
19,2 Our delegation stated quite clearly and  definitely that the Bulgarian Government will not  recognize the legality of any decision taken on this  question in the absence of the lawful representatives  of the Chinese people.
18.3 One further point I have to make is that only  yesterday I asked that an amendment be made to  document 11 C/14 (prov.), in which my statement  on this question had not been mentioned. The  Officers of the Administrative Commission promised  to include my statement in the document, but we were  sorry to see that the omisaion persisted in the report  of the Administrative Commission in its final form  (document 11 C/14). I once more ask that this  statement be included, as it is the official statement  of my Government expressing the position of the  Bulgarian People's Republic,
19.4 The question of the Chiang Kai-shek clique,  and its contributions prevents the General Confer-  ence from getting down to its proper work. I re-  quest the Conference to adopt a decision which  would reflect the contribution situation at the present  moment and to refrain from making any changes in  the scale of contributions.
20, Mr. DOVEY (United Kingdom), Rapporteur.  of the Administrative Commission:  In response to a request for correction made by  the representative of Bulgaria, I should like to draw  attention to the footnote on page 4 of the report,  which lists the countries who associated themselves  with the statement to which he refers and which in-  cludes the name of his country.
21. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French}:  I now call upon the delegate of Japan.
22. Mr, OKAMOTO (Japan):  Mr, President, fellow delegates, in order to  help speed the progress of the work of the Conference
1 shall be brief in my statement. The resolution  presented by the Administrative Commission, which
115   VI PLENARY  appears in paragraph 7 of the report, seems to re-  flect the common sense view on this difficult question.  We are convinced that it is not our duty at this junc-  ture to discuse the problem of the representation of  China, We are dealing only with the question of the  contribution and the arrears in payment of the  contributions of China, 1 believe this resolution  which has already been studied thoroughly by the  Executive Board and the Administrative Commission  is a sound one, and for this reason, Mr. President,  the Japanese delegation would like to express its  support for this practical and realistic resolution.
23. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H.E, Mr. Thayer, Head of the delega-  tion of the United States of America.
24,1 Mr, THAYER (United States of America);  Mr. President, it seems clear to me that there  are three main questions before us, Is it legal for  the Conference to consider the acceptance of this  settlement of the Chinese contribution? Is this legal?  Does it establish a bad precedent, or is it a wise  measure and what is the effect of it on the work of  Unesco? Mr. President, as to the question whether  it 1s legal for us to consider this question, there are  some delegates who apparently are not willing to  accept the decision of this Conference, They say it  is illegal to consider any matter concerning China.  But I submit, Mr. President, that what {3 law in this  Conference is for this Conference to determine and  cannot be determined by any individual delegation.  And this Conference has determined that there shall  be representation of the Republic of China,
24.2 Therefore, I would like to point out that this  matter being brought to you today has already been  settled on that score. Now the question is whether  or not there should be a consolidation of Chinese in-  debtedness in an amount of 2 million 500 thousand  dollars, to be paid in 50 instalments - the payment  of 641,000 dollars in settlement of its 1959-1960  indebtedness and the establishment of a rate of 2.5%  as China's share in the support of the 1961-1962  budget. .
24.3 It is important to remember, Mr. President,  that these recommendations were approved by the  Executive Board after thorough discussion, by a vote  of 16 to 2, and approved by the Administrative Com-  mission after thorough discussion by a vote of 29 to
15, and referred to this body. Does this question  establish a bad precedent or is it a wise thing to do?  And what does it do? It assures a revenue of some
700,000 dollars per budget period. It assures that  this revenue will be brought into the Organization.  Adoption of this resolution would eliminate the neces-  sity to make provision in the budget for China's non-  payment to be borne by other Member States. The  acceptance of this proposal by this Conference would  also eliminate the necessity for this body periodi-  cally to adopt special resolutions granting the Govern-  ment of the Republic of China the right to vote, Such  acceptance would do away with solitical discussions  on this issue at future conferences, thereby eliminat-  ing the waste of precious time and permitting this  body to consider earlier the basic problems of educa-  tion, science and culture which are its task. More-  over, the aggregate assessments of the smaller  MEETINGS  nations assembled here will'be approximately
700, 000 dollars per year less, corresponding to the  contributions which China would in the future be  making.
24.4 My country considers that the stabilization  of income at this time is of crucual importance a3  Unesco faces the increasing demands of an expand-  ing programme benefiting the newly-emerged  countries. Yesterday afternoon I listened with  great emotion to the speeches of the countries of  Ghana, of India, of Mauritius, Cameroun, Sierra  Leone and, this morning, to the speeches of some  of the African countries describing their great needs  in education and the magnificent things that could be  done in their countries as the result of the work  which Unesco is proposing to do. And this morning,  from this rostrum, we heard the distinguished  representative and Minister of Education of Ceylon  describe some of the problems of his own  country. Are we going to refuse to accept contribu.  tion1 annually that will enable us to continue this  worl? .
24.5 The point has been raised that this is a  deviation from the established United Nations sys-  tem but, although this is to some extent true, Unesco  itself has in the past granted special reductions to  Austria ani] to Hungary, Other international  organizations, such as the International Labour  Organisation and the International Civil Aviation  Organization, have granted reductions in the Chinese  percentage of contribution. The legality of this  measure is incontestable. Unesco is in fiscal  matters, autonomous, and not bound by the United  Nations system, as was recently confirmed by an  exchange of letters between the Secretary-General  and the Director-General who raised this very  issue. Membership of the United Nations and of the  Specialized Agencles differs and so there must be  room for adjustment, More important, this Agency  must assure itself of a margin of flexibility in  handling its scale of contributions,
24.6 Mr, President, there are many members of  this Organization with modest resources, there are  many new countries coming into this Organization  who possibly, from year to year, as they develop  rapidly, and théy will develop rapidly, are going to  find themselves in financial distress. Are we to  lay down a hard and fast rule which will prevent  those countries from continuing in this Organization  and not only reaping the benefits of our work, but ’  also contributing all that they have to contribute of  their culture and of their energy and youth to our  deliberations? I say, Mr. President, that it is  particularly important that we should not refuse to  be flexible in the matter of these contributions, and  important to every country of Africa and every  country of the other parts of the world. The situa-  tion in which Austria and Hungary found themselves  yesterday and in which China finds itself today,  may tomorrow be faced by many others. Unesco  must be able to adjust to such emergencies,  For all the above reasons, Mr, President, ‘I  move that we accept the recommendations of the  Executive Board, confirmed and approved by the  Administrative Commission, and that the General  Conference accept the resolution on Chinese  contributions.   PLENARY
25, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French);  If there are no other speakers, we shall proceed  ‘to vote on the resolution in paragraph 7 of the  Adminiati-siive Commission's report, At the request  of a num}t3" of delegations, voting will be by roll-  call,
26, (The vote was taken by roll-call;  Voted in favour: Argentina, Australia, Belgium,  Brazil, Cameroun, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica,  Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, France,  Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Guatemala,  Haiti, Iran, Italy, Japan, Korea, Lebanon,  Luxembourg, Madagascar, Mexico, Monaco, New  Zealand, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines,  Spain, Thalland, Turkey, United States of America,  Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet-Nam.  Voted against: Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Burma,  Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cambodia,  Czechoslovakia, Ethiopia, Finland, Guinea, Hungary,  Norway, Poland, Rumania, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United  Kingdom, Yugoslavia,  Abstained: Canada, Central African Republic,  Ceylon, Congo (capital: Brazzaville), Denmark,  Ghana, India, Indonesia, Israel, Ivory Coast, Laos,  Libya, Federation of Malaya, Morocco, Nepal,  Netherlands, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerlund, United  Arab Republic.  Absent: Albania, Austria, Cuba, Dahomey, Gabon,  Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Liberia, Mali, Nicaragua,  Niger, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somalia,  Togo, Tunisia, Upper Volta).
27.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French);  Here is the result of the voting on the resolution  in paragraph 7 of the Administrative Commission's  report: 37 votee in favour, 17 against, 20 absten-  tions, 19 delegations absent, The delegation of  China will therefore be entitled to participate in ail  voting taking place In any of the organs of the General  Conference.
27.2 The Conference is now called upon to vote on  the resolution contained in paragraph 8 (a) of the  Administrative Commission's report, unless some  delegations wish to speak on this subject. The resolu-  tion 1s that by which the Conference would authorize  the delegations of Honduras and Bolivia to vote at the  eleventh session of the General Conference.
27.3 Do any delegations wish to speak? I see there  are none,
27.4 I therefore put to the vote the draft resolution  in paragraph 8 (a) of the Administrative Commission's  report,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands).
27.5 The resolution is adopted unanimously.
27.6 I call upon H.E. Mr. Matsui, Chairman of  the Credentials Committee.
28, Mr. MATSUI (Japan), Chairman of the Creden-  tials Committee (Translation from the French):  Mr, President, in conformity with the decision  just taken, I have pleasure in informing you that  Bolivia has deposited provisional credentials ac-  crediting the Bolivian Ambassador in Paris as his  country's representative at the eleventh session  of the General Conference.
20.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French):  The delegation of Rolivia and Honduras will thore-  fore be entitled henceforth to vote in any of the  organs of the General Conference,
20,2 We now come to the next resolution, appear-  ing in paragraph 8 (b) of the Administrative Com-  mission's report: Special arrangements for  Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Poland,
29.3 If no delegation wishes to speak, 1 shall put  the resolution to the vote,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands).
29.4 The resolution is adopted unanimously, with
1 abstention.
29,5 We come to the next point, dealt with in  paragraph 9 of the Administrative Commission's  report, namely the currency of contributions (docu-  ment 11 C/ADM.5 - Part Il).
29.6 If no delegation wishes to speak, we shall  now vote.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands),
20.7 The resolution is adopted unanimously.
20.8 We now come to the fifth resolution: Scale  of contribution.’ given in paragraph 10 of the  Administrative Commission's report.
29,9 If no delegation wishes to speak, we shall  now take a vote,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands).
28,10 The resolution is adopted by 69 votes in  favour, with 5 abstentions,
29.11 Ladies and gentlemen, Part I of the  Administrative Commission's first report is adopted.
29,12 I now call on H,E, Father Rapailler, Head  of the delegation of Haiti, who has to leave this  afternoon and would like to say a few words to you  before his departure.  ADDRESS BY H.E. FATHER RAPAILLER,  HEAD OF THE DELEGATION OF HAITI
30,1 Father RAPAILLER (Haiti) (Translation  from the French):  Mr. President, delegates, as the Haitian delega-  gation is due to return home by aeroplane very  shortly, it would like to express its thanks to the  President of the General Conference for the privilege  he has granted it in allowing me to say a few words  to you today. My address will be less in the form  of a lecture and rather reflect the desire to state  briefly the cultural rôle Haiti intends playing in the  great concerted efforts being made by Unesco in  such a spirit of self-denial.
30.2 Anyone studying the vital problems of the  contemporary world is aware of a black spot which  commands the urgent attention of national leaders.
1 refer to the tragic depth of the ignorance that  hangs like a black night over the sons of Man - the  darkness in which the human mind, swathed in  ignorance and weighed down with prejudices, now  dwells, the darkness of a mind whose vigour is  sapped by reactionary routines and taboos, the in-  coherence which is doing dreadful harm to the logic  and healthy reason of transcendental humanism,
30.3 If the nations are struggling with a tangled  gkein of social difficulties, each more involved  than the others, if the globe is in the fell grip of   VI PLENARY  the tentacles of poverty, greed and chaos, it is be-  cause the human mind, the lodestar of civilization,  seems to be abandoning its supreme mission, it is  becauge we often ignore the vital fact that all the  problems of human society are mainly a cultural  problem and that, for this reason, nothing is more  important for a nation than to pay particular attention  to the education of its people, with a view to basing  such education on healthy principles and rational  methods which will enable the young students to ex-  plore the avenues of the mind to the benefit of a  higher educational system that will be all the more  effective when its cultural superstructure is rooted  in the deepest aspirations of the soul of the people.
30.4 If it is to fill with stars the spreading night  which threatens to engulf the world, Unesco must  not forget that education, considered from the stand-  point of its intrinsic content and from the vital point  of view of {ts alms, presupposes the proportional  adaptation of subject to object and vice versa. Ata  time when the Unesco family circle has grown and  now includes a rich mosaic of races, languages and  ethnic groups, of the specific tonality of which we  may obtain some inkling from the kaleidoscope of  national costumes to which we have grown accus-  tomed at this brilliant international gathering in the  last week, it would not be out of place to emphasize,  both for those Unesco experts who are already abroad,  and for those who are about to leave for the new  Member States, that their efforts will be doomed to  lamentable failure, if their teaching does not respect  the metaphysical imperative that all education must  be conceived in the light of the origins, characteris-  tic features and social, geographical dnd physical  background of the people to be educated,
30.5 A black people of African origin, transplanted  to America and given a French cultural background,  the population of Haîtf intends to foster a national  culture which can point with pride to the undoubtedly  valuable contributions of French Graeco-Roman cul-  ture, of American know-how and of the cult of  chivalry among its Spanish-speaking neighbours.  But, above all, fellow delegates, I think - and I ask  all coloured delegates to this assembly never to for-  get - that the tutelage of the mind is at its worst when  it seeks to stifle the education of a people by suppres-  sing all originality and every individual manifestation  of local colour. If we do that, we shall indeed flounder  indefinitely in a borrowed literature, a soulless art  and a characterless educational technique which  would end by turning us into circus clowns desperately  tricked out in skimpy finery, clowns whose tawdry  plagiarisms would make them the laughing- stock of  those very people we should, no doubt, imitate be-  cause of the greatness of their transcendental  achievements without renouncing that sacrosanct  heritage which no man is ever permitted to forget -  the national spirit of his own fatherland.
30.6 Before leaving, the delegation of Haiti wishes  publicly to thank Unesco for the moral and material  aid it has always given our people in its struggle for  education, particularly fundamental education, At  the game time, we venture to hope that we shall re-  ceive even more help during the period you are now  considering since, isolated - not to say abandoned -  by ita neighbours, Haiti still trusts in the sincerity  of Unesco.
30,7 Haiti believes that Unesco is no mere paper  factory or talk-shop, It is gure that Unesco is  devoting itself to the world's cultural problems with  the heart of a mother and the brain of a father. It  believes that Unesco will remain worthy of its mis-  sion to wipe out hate through the spread of education,  But it is also convinced that Unesco cannot remain  indifferent to the discrimination of all kinds which  handicaps the application of those principles of soli-  darity and fraternity for the triumph of which the  international agencies are working. Unesco cannot  ignore the handicaps which still exist in some areas  of the world and which constitute a genuine obstacle  to the dissemination of culture - for example in the  schools where, in the middle of the Twentieth  century, human beings are spurned, hunted, lynched  and stabbed in the back merely because they belong  to the black race,
30.8 I cannot end without expressing my cordial  good wishes to all the delegates at this Conference,  my meeting with whom has undoubtedly enriched my  life and that of my country, and whose wise addresses  are an invitation t¢ believe more firmly in the great  universality of mankind, in spite of the terrifying  things which threaten the world - for the poet was  probably right in saying that terrifying things are  really helpless things waiting for us to aid them.
30.9 I should like to give special thanks to this  generous land of France, for its warm hospitality  and {ts distinction of mind which make it one of the  finest adornments of the human spirit.  \
31,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French):  Ladies and gentlemen, before clceing the meeting  you will permit me, on your behalf, to thank Mr,  Dovey once again for the clear and full explanation  he gave us of Part I of the Administrative Com-  mission's first report - a very complicated report,  as you were able to judge for yourselves.
31.2 This afternoon's meeting will be devoted to  the election of members of the Executive Board.  In this regard, I draw your attention to Rules 87  and 89 of the Rules of Procedure and to Appendix I  which contains the rules for the conduct of elections  by secret ballot.
31.3 The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m,