VIt-  SEVENTH PLENARY MEETING
18 November 1960, at 3.45 p.m.  President: Mr. Akale-Work ABTE -WOLD (Ethiopia)  CONTENTS  Election of 12 members of the Executive Board . . + ©  ELECTION OF 12 MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD
1.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Ladies and gentlemen, the seventh plenary meet-  ing is open. The General Conference will deal this  afternoon with item 8 of its agenda: election of 12  members of the Executive Board. In accordance with  Rule 30, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, the  Nominations Committee met this morning to consider  nominations for the 12 vacant seats, having regard to  the principles laid down in Article V.A.2 of the  Constitution.
1.2 I therefore call upon Mr. Sharif, Chairman of  the Nominations Committee, who will present to the  General Conference the report called for by Rule 30,  paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure.
2,1 Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan), Chairman of the  Nominations Committee:  Mr. President, fellow delegates, it is my privi-  lege to present to you the report of the Nominations  Committee which met this morning to consider the  nominations for the vacant seats on the Executive  Board, having regard to the principles laid down in  Article V.A.2 of the Constitution, and to submit to  the Conference general observations on the manner  in which this Article should be applied, together with  the names of all the candidates.
2.2 The delegations of Lebanon and Uruguay with-  drew the candidature of Mgr Maroun and of Mr. Pons.  The delegates of the following States made observa-  tions on the criteria which should govern this election  of members of the Executive Board with due regard  to Article V.A.2 of the Constitution: Australia,  Austria, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Iran,  Ivory Coast, Jordan, Mexico, Senegal, Switzerland,  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab  Republic, United Kingdom, Upper Volta. In the course  of discussion the following points were made, The  increase in Unesco membership should be taken into  account in determining the composition of the Execu-  tive Board, In this connexion, reference was made to  the proposals by various Member States to amend the  Constitution and Rules of Procedure to permit an in-  crease of membership of the Executive Board, to  allow for a better representation of Member States  from both the cultural and geographical points of view.
2.3 It was regretted that during this session, the  Conference could not amend the Constitution to re-  flect this increase and it was hoped that the next  General Conference would do so. Even though the  membership of the Executive Board would not be en-  larged at this session, every endeavour should be  made to ensure that an opportunity be given to the  new African Member States to have a voice in the  Executive Board, particularly since Unesco has a  special responsibility to meet the needs of these  States. In determining the composition of the Board,  an effort should be made to ensure fair representa-  tion of the different geographical regions, with due  regard to the diversity of cultures within a given geo-  graphical region. The importance of representation  of the great cultures of the world was particularly  stressed. It was pointed out that some geographical  regions had had extensive representation and it was  urged that the need for correcting this imbalance be  borne in mind. The desirability of a revision of the  representation within the various regions was em-  phasized as was the need for representation of great  and small States. ‘
2.4 Finally, Mr. President, in accordance with the  Constitution, the paramount importance of the per-  sonal competence and experience of candidates was  stressed, and the need for a proper balance in the  representation of the various disciplines with which  Unesco is concerned, for example, the arts, the  humanities, the sciences and education. The duty of  governments to ensure that members elected were  available to serve the Board was also emphasized.
2.5 Mr, President, fellow delegates, I have the  honour to present the names of the candidates for  election to the Executive Board: H,E. Mr. Ziada  Arbab (Sudan); H.E. Mr. Georges Averoff (Greece);  H.E. Dr. Rodolfo Barén Castro (El Salvador); H.E.  Dr. C.F. Beeby (New Zealand); Shrimati Indira  Gandhi (India); H.E. Mr. Julien Kuypers (Belgium);  H.E. Dr. G. Malalasekera (Ceylon); H.E. Mr.  Akira Matsui (Japan); Dr. John P. Mitchell (Liberia);  Professor Joaquin Pérez Villanueva (Spain); H.E.  Mr. Mariano Picén-Salas (Venezuela); Dr. Albert  Rakoto-Ratsimamanga (Malagasy Republic); Dr.  George N. Shuster (United States of America);  Professor Otto von Simson (Federal Republic of  Germauy): Professor Sissakian (Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics); Professor Radivoj Uvalié  (Yugoslavia); H.E. Mr. Stefan Wierblowski (Poland).   vu PLENARY
3.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 thank the Chairman of the Nominations Com-  mittee for his clear and brief statement. We shall  proceed forthwith to elect 12 members of the Execu-  tive Board, according to the provisions of Rules 87  and 89 of the Rules of Procedure and of the Rules for  the Conduct of Elections by Secret Ballot.
3.2 Inaccordance with Rule 2 of the latter, I will  ask Miss Abou Ezzeddine, of the delegation of  Lebanon, and Mr. Touré, of the delegation of Guinea,  to bu good enough to act as tellers.
3.3 The head of the delegation of l.aos having asked  to speak, I call upon her to do so.
4. H.R.H. Princess SOUVANNA PHOUMA (Laos)  (Translation from the French):  Mr. President, before proceeding to the vote, 1  simply wish to raise a point which I am not quite  clear about; other delegates may be in the same  position. Should the name of the country or only that  of the candidate, or both, be entered on the ballot  paper?  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon the Secretary of the Conference, who  will briefly explain the voting procedure.
6.1 Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) (Translail~n  from the French):  Mr. President, the Secretariat has had ballot  papers and envelopes distributed to the delegations.  Each ballot paper bears the reference 11 C/ Form. 1.  This paper has 12 lines on it, mimbered 1 to 12, In  accordance with Rule 13 of the Rules for the Conduct  of Elections by Secret Ballot, the following are con-  sidered invalid; (1) ballot papers on which there are  more names than persons to be elected; (32) ballot  papers in which thé voters have revealed their  identity, in particular by apposing their signature or  mentioning the name of the Member State they repre-  sent; (3) ballot papers on which the name of any  candidate appears; more than once; (4) ballot papers  on which there are fewer names than there are  persons to be elected.
6.2 ‘Thus, 12 names, and only 12 names, must be  inserted on each ballot paper.
6.3 The names of candidates must be chosen from  the list submitted by the Chairman of the Nominations  MEETINGS
120  Cornmittee. It is essential to insert 12 of these names  and optional to add, beside each, the name of the  candidate's country.
6.4 Under Rule 12 of the Rules (or the Conduct of  Elections by Secret Ballot, blank ballot papers - that  is those on which no names are written - are con-  sidered to be abstentions.  (The vote was taken by roll-call, in the French  alphabetical order of the names of countries, begin-  ning with Cuba.)
7.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  The ballot is closed. The votes will now be  counted.  (The tellers proceeded to count the votes.)
7.2 Here are the detailed results of the ballot:  number of Member States entitled to vote 95;  absent 4; abstentions 0; number of invalid ballot  papers 2; number of votes recorded 89; majority  required 45.  The 12 candidates who have obtained the largest  number of votes and who are therefore elected are  as follows: H.E. Mr. A. Matsul (Japan) 88 votes;  Mrs. I. Gandhi (India) 86 votes; Mr. G,N. Shuster  (United States of America) 84 votes; Mr. N.M.  Sissakian (Union of Soviet Soclalist Republics)
76 votes; H.E. Mr. C.E. Beeby (New Zealand)
1.2. Mir. 8: Tiérblowskd (Poland) 70 votes; H.E.  Mr. J. Kuypers (Belgium) 63 votes; H.F. Mr. M.  Picén-Salas (Venezuela) 59 votes; Mr. O. von Sim-  son (Federal Republic of Germany) 58 votea; H.E.  Mr. À. Rakoto-Ratsimamanga (Malagasy Republic)
7.3 ‘The 12 candidates who have obtained the largest  number of votes are thus elected members of the  Executive Board for the next four years.
7.4 The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 7.05 p.m.