12 Decembzr 1960, at 10,35 a,m,  President: Mr, Luis R, MAC KAY (Argentina)  CONTENTS  Discussion on the rôle of Unesco incontributingto the attain-  ment of independence by colonial countries and peoples 410  DISCUSSION ON THE ROLE OF UNESCO IN CONTRIBUTING TO  THE ATTAINMENT OF INDEPENDENCE BY COLONIAL COUNTRIES  AND PEOPLES
1.1 The PRESIDENT (Trarslation from the Spanish);  Ladies and gentlemen, the twenty-sixth plenary  meeting of the General Conference is open.
1.2 According to the agenda, we should have begun  by discussing item 17,7 at the previous meeting and  several delegations had already handed in their names  to apeak on it. As H.E. Mr. de Berredo Carneiro,  whose report should wind up this discussion, ia de-  tained in the Executive Board, I propose to continue  with the next item, no. 29, on the rôle of Unesco in  contributing to the attainment of independence by  colonial countries and peoples (documents 11 C/45  and 11 C/45 Corr.1).
1.3 This report will be presented by the Chairman  of the Working Party, Mr. Mahmoud Messadi, Head  of the delegation of Tunisia, whom I now call upon.
2.1 Mr. MESSADI (Tunisia), Chairman of the  Working Party, (Translation from the French);  Mr. President and delegates, the Working Party,  set up by the General Conference on 25 November  during the fourth plenary meeting, to consider the  new question included in the agenda as item 29 and  submit any appropriate resolution to the Conference,  held two meetings on Thursday 1 December and on  Saturday 3 December 1960.
2.2 The Working Party consisted of the representa-  tives of the following Member States: Brazil, France,  Ghana, India, Mexico, Pakistan, Tunisia, the Union  of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom  and the United States of America,
2.3 The Working Party did me the honour of elect-  ing me as its Chairman.
2,4 Observers from Australia, Bulgaria, Iran,  Nigeria, the Republic of Niger, Sudan and Switzerland,  and the representative of the United Nations attended  one or both of the meetings.
2.5 The Working Party decided to draw up a draft  resolution on the basis of draft resolution 11 C/DR.183,  submitted by the delegation of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics and draft resolution 11 C/DR.187,  submitted by the delegations of the following Member  States: Afghanistan, Burma, Central African  ~
410  Republic, Ceylon, Chad, Congo (capital: Brazzaville),  Ethiopia, Ghana, Guinea, India, Iran, Jordan, Libya,  Madagascar, Mali, Morocco, Nepal, Republic of  Niger, Pakistan, Senegal, Somalia, Sudan, Tunisia,  United Arab Republic and Viet-Nam.
2,6 Note was also taken of draft resolution
11 C/DR, 125 submitted by the delegation of the Union  of Soviet Socialist Republics,
2.7 The various paragraphs of the preamble were  adopted at the first meeting and those of the purview  at the second.
2,8 There was discussion on a number of important  points, but there was no question about either the  general spirit of the resolution or its essential pro-  visions, with the result that it was unanimously  adopted, paragraph by paragraph.
2.9 At the first meeting the French representative  said that his delegation felt bound to abstain, because  the question did not fall within Unesco's competence  and was currently being discussed by the United  Nations, which was the organization to take the deci-  sion on it, ,
2,10 The representative of the United Kingdom  stated that he had no instructions from his Govern-  ment empowering him either to approve or not to  approve any draft resolution which the Working Party  might prepare. -
2,11 A proposal to introduce a paragraph inviting  the Director-General to report to the Executive Board  and to the General Conference during the twelfth  session on measures taken to implement the present  resolution was submitted by the delegation of the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
2.12 The Working Party considered whether such a  paragraph was necessary and several members asked  the Secretariat whether, in the absence of such a  paragraph, the Director-General would have to make  a report. When the Secretariat replied in the affirma-  tive, the Working Party finally decided not to include  this paragraph.
2,13 At the end of the debate, the representative of  France, referring to the decision he had taken at the  first meeting to abstain on principle, added his vote  to that of the other members of the Working Party in  favour of the last paragraph of the draft resolution.
2,14 The delegation of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics expressed itself in agreement with the text   PLZNARY  of the draft resolution but reserved the 1 iit to make  a statement to make up for what appeared to them to  be deficiencies.
2.15 At'the end of its proceedings, the Working  Party expressed unanimous satisfaction with the  atmosphere of understanding and friendly co-operation  in which the exchange of views between the various  members had taken place,’ The Chairman of the  Working Party expressed the hope at the end of the  discussion that a document drawn up in such a spirit  of understanding might be considered by the two  delegations which had abstained and receive their  votes in favour, so as to confer upon this draft resolu-  tion the unanimity of the General Conference, in this  way doing honour to’'it and to Unesco, whose spirit  would thus be faithfully interpreted.
2.16 Accordingly, the Working Party recommends  to the General Conference that it adopt the text  attached as an Annex to the present report, which, 1  must truly say, was drawn up and adopted in an atmo-  sphere devoid of all passion and polemics and in the  spirit of our great Organization's noble mission.
3.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank Mr, Messadi for his report.
3.2 1 call upon the delegate of the United States of  America, Mr. Thayer.
4.1 Mr. THAYER (United States of America):  Mr, President and distinguished delegates, I  would like first of all to pay particular tribute to the  extraordinary job done by the Chairman of the Work-  ing Party, He showed patience and skill and in every  way performed his duties in an outstanding manner.
1 am sure that every member of the Working Party  has nothing but the greatest admiration for his  performance,
4.2 1do not suppose, Mr. President, that there  existe a more powerful human emotion than the  desire for individual freedom - freedom of thought,  freedom of expression, freedom of worship, freedom  to determine one's own destiny. It is a human emotion  which will not respond to'logic, nor can any number  of years of tyranny and oppression ever succeed in  destroying it.
4.3 1listened, Mr. President, to the impassioned  speeches of the delegate from Morocco and the dele-  gate from Guinea, on & noisy afternoon a week ago  last Saturday, with the deepest possible sympâthy.  I understood the emotions that necessarily are in-  volved in all the complicated questions of the coming  into freedom of the peoples of Africa, I know the  deép bonds of sympathy that exist bétween these °  peoples. The feelings to which these delegates gave  expression on that Saturday afternoon were very  understandable tome. I did not agree with their  proposals because, as i have sald very often, I do  not believe that in this Conference we should be con-  cerned with political matters which are bound to  cause tensions and clashes that are quite out of place  here.’ I believé we should accept decisions of the  United Nations on all political questions. But I under-  stood the feelings of these delegates then - and I  understand them now, end I respect them - and I  regret very much that the various suggestions for  adjournment made it necessary at the clcse of a long  afternoon to stop the debate, because, though I
411  MEETINGS XXVI  disagreed, I understood the pressing need of human  beings to give sincere expression to their emotions  on the subject of freedom and independence, The force  of this emotion creates a very close bond between  those who, now free, have in their history had to fight  for their freedom and those who are not yet free, or  have just achieved freedom. It is for that resson,  Mr. President, that we in America respond so strongly  and so emotionally to any mention of the attainment of  independence by countries and peoples under any  circumstances, When a new nation comes into being  in the world it stirs within us in America the memories  of the time when our nation was born, only 185 years  ago. May I repeat, Mr. President, what I said earlier  in this Conference: we Americans, as the first colon-  {zed people to gain their freedom, need never be re-  minded by anyone what it is like not to be free.
4.4 People and courtries can attain their indopend-  ence in many ways. Some, like us in America, have  had to fight for liberty, as ‘have the peoples of many  «ther countries. Others gain access to freedom  through negotiation, The United Kingdom and the  French Republic have granted independence to many  nations during these last years and even these last  months, 1 have listened with much interest to the re-  marks made from this rostrum by the representatives  of many of these nations, expressing their apprecia-  tion for the contributions which these once colonial  powers have made to their peoples over the years.  Although my ancestors fought for independence on the  battlefields of the State of Massachusetts, they were  the first, after we achieved independence, to appreci-  ate what earlier British rule had contributed to our  development. The bonds that bind the former colonies  of the United Kingdom to the great family of the  Commonwealth are of a strength that cannot be ignored,
1 think that the distinguished delegate fro: india will  be the first to testify to this. So also, I think, will  the distinguished delegate from the Philippines testify  in similar fashion to the efforts of the United States.
4.5 Now, what is our business at this Conference  in so far as Unesco is concerned? Is it the past or  the future? If we are concerned with the past and  with calling up out of history the evils of tyranny and  oppression, it might be interesting to remember that  there was a timé when the United Kingdom was a  colony owing allegiance to the Romans, that many  peoples of Europe were once governed against their  will by great empires. This is true, for example, of  Switzerland and the Netherlands, Are we to spend  our time bemoaning and reviling the conquests of  Genghis Khan or Attila? Should we make endless  speeches about Napoleon or Frederick the Great?  There have been tyrants and oppressors of large seg-  ments of the people of the world since the world began.  They exist today in some parts of the world and 1  venture to say that they may exist here and there  until the world comes to én end. But, Mr, President,  in Unesco we are concerned, not with the past, but  with what the role of Unésco ‘shall be in the fature in  helping to contribute to the education, science and  culture of those peoples who have not yet attained their  - {independence so that they can bé made réady, and of  those who have only recently become free and need  assistance sothat they can join the family of nations on  a basis of equality, We are concerned with what educa-  tioncan do to make liberty aneffective social force,   xXVI
4,6 That is why the United States delegation was  glad to take part in the endeavour of the Working  Party tc define what the rôle of Unesco can and should  be with respect to these peoples, I believe that the  resolution drawn up by this group and embodied in the  report just submitted to this plenary meeting sets  forth very well the basic principle on which the rôle  of Unesco rests. The United States delegation would  like to point to one interpretation of certain words of  this resolution which it believes to be important: I  refer to paragraphs 1 (a) and (b) of the resolution  where reference is made to the fact that "accession  to freedom and independence'' should not be delayed  under false pretexts. There are in many parts of the  world, notably in many of the islands of the Pacific,  small groups of peoples who desire and are entitled  to self-government, but who of their own accord  would prefer to associate themselves in federated  groups or with other independent powers, rather than  have their own complete freedom and independence,  The United States interprets the words freedom and  independence as applying as well to those peoples  who geek self-government as to those who do not  wish to become free and independent nations, * The  United States delegation would not wish to dee these  peoples ignored or omitted from this resolution. We  agree that independence and freedom should not be  delayed on the basis of any falge pretext. We also  believe, however, that a definite relationship must  exist between the economic, social, educational and  cultural advancement of the people and their ability  to assume the obligations of freedom and Independ-  ence,
4.7 Unesco has indeed a rôle to play in contributing  to the attainment of independence of peoples in the  world. For people who have received the benefits of  education and science and culture, people who are  allowed to have complete and open association with  other peoples of the world cannot and will not long  remain in bondage. We believe, as the resolution  states, that colonialism in all {ts forms and all its .  manifestations should be speedily abolished, and when  we say thai, we refer to any form of alien subjuga-  tion and any manifestation of the hegemony of one  State over another, to the detriment of the latter's  interest, Not all colonialism has been overseas  colonialism, not all colonialism has worn that frank  label, not all proclamations of independence have  meant that real independence was firmly established.  There are many people who have been loudly.pro-  claimed as free peoples who have been suffering  under the worst forms of tyranny, 'if the older type  of colonialism, and particularly the forms decried  by the younger States which have recently achieved  their independence, well deserve to pass away, we  must be careful that new forms of colonialism are  not implanted to solidify the subordination of weaker  countries to those more strong, of small States to  their more powerful and ruthless neighbours. We  see this resolution, Mr. President, as directed  against all the deplorable aspects of colonialism,  both overt and covert, both ancient and new. It is in  that spirit that the United States delegation endorses  the directive it implies for Unesco to give its full  support and aid to the growth, development and educa-  tional progress of newly independent countries and  those which will become independent inthe next few years.
5. ‘The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon Mr. Lapin, head of the delegation of the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
6.1 Mr, LAPIN (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  (Translation from the Russian);  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, we are glad  that the Soviet Union delegation's initiative in present-  ing a proposal to promote the liquidation of colonialism  for consideration by the General Conference has found  support among many other delegations, and that the  Working Party's discussion of the Soviet Union draft  resolution and that presented by the Afro-Asian group  of countries has resulted in agreement on the draft  text which 18 now before you at today's plenary meet-  ing.
6.2 We can thus state with satisfaction that the  attempts of certain delegations to draw Unesco aside  from life and from the problems which are agitating  the nations today have not succeeded. Life is inexor-  ably breaking through and penetrating the walls of our  international Organization.
6,3 We support the draft resolution presented by  the distinguished representative of Tunisia, although  we regard it as not entirely satisfactory; and we  should like to express our opinion on various points  in that connexion,
6,4 Its first shortcoming, in our view, is the ex-  treme vagueness of its referance to the time-limits  for liquidating colonfalism, It expresses the desire  that éolonialism should be abolished speedily. But  what ts meant by "speedily" ? As fai as the colonial  countries are concerned, it might bz a matter of  several years or even decades. Is it possible to  tolerate the shameful system of colonialism even if  only for a period of a few years? (s it nossible to  hope that the colonialists will deign to grant independ-  ence to the oppressed peoples of their own accord?  We must not forget that more than one hundred million  people are still living in colonial bondage, in need and  privation, and subject to unrestrained exploitation and  pillage.
6.5 Colonialism is an ulcer which has hampered  and to this day continues to hamper the progressive  development of the peoples of Asia and Africa.
6,6 As the President of Ghana so rightly declared  at the XVth session of the United Nations General  Assembly, the world will know no peace so long as  n single foot of African soil remains under foreign  domination, A
6,7 Nor can our programmes, Unesco's programmes  be effective so long as colonialism exists, for it  hampers, and has done for centuries, the development  of education and culture, and keeps the masses in  poverty and ignorance.
6.8 Accordingly the Soviet Union delegation pro-  poses another word, a more definite word in our  view, instead of "speedily" - the word 'fmmedi-
6.9 It is necéssary to finish immediately with the  disgrace of our time, to liquidate colonial systems  and grant independence to all colonial countries and  peoples forthwith, as the peoples themselves demand.  No longer must the putrefied régime of colonial  oppression and servitude be preserved by force.
6.10 Assertions that some peoples are not yet  ready for independence, that they are not yet capable   PLENARY  of directing their affairs by themselves, cannot re-  strain the inexorable urge of peoples for liberation,
6.11 This is the colonialista! old, old story -  nothing more, History is breaking ne trails, with-  out asking the consent of those who still think in  terms of the concepts of the last century,
6.12 The realization of the peoples' national hopes  and aspirations is inevitable, If the supporters of  the colonial régime obstruct the peoples' march to  independence, they will end up by being swept away.
6.13 It is vhe duty of our Organization to put its  full authority behind the ‘demand for the complete and  immediate liquidation of colonialiam in all its forms  and manifestations, Thia demand was contained in  the Soviet Union delegation's proposal,
6.14 The second shortcoming of the draft resolution  presented today is that it contains no clear and forth-  right condemnation of colonialism. The misery and  privation which colonialism has brought to peoples  are passed over in silence, We regard this as a  concession, as it were, to the colonialists who are  trying in some measure to eribellish colonialism,  to demonstrate its "clyilizing mission" in respect  of the oppressed peoples, .
6.15 Over the centuries, hundreds of millions of  people enslaved by the colontalists have been forcibly  prevented from reaching the highroad, the main  thoroughfare, of human development, In their pur-  suit of profits, the colorSalists condemned these  peoples to unspeakable hardships, to poverty and  ignorance. Colonialism has held back the economic  and cultural development of the oppressed peoples,  many of whom had a high level of culture before  colonialism came on the scene,
6,16 Colonialism has left, as a legacy, an unpre-  cedented rate of mortality from disease nnd hunger,  it has left illiteracy and an almost complete absence  of trained national personnel.
6.17 How can we forget this, how can we fail to  mention it in our resolution when we speak about  colonialism? I shall cite only a few examples.  During a half-century of Belgian rule, the population  diminished by nearly one-half. The proportion of  the population of Africa to world population has fallen  from 20% in the Sixteenth century to 8% in the  Twentieth century. These are facts which the colonial-  ists cannot get away from.
6.18 The rate of illiteracy among the adult popula-  tion of Africa is 85% and in Tropical Africa the  population is illiterate almost to a man. How, in the  face of such facts, is it possible to speak of the  civilizing mission of the colonial system?
6.19 In the speech which he made here, the United  Kingdom delegate spoke with pride about the way in  which his country is helping Dahomey. But then  comes the delegate from Dahoraey, gentlemen, who  tells us that only 30% of the men, women and children  in his country can read and write. The rest are  illiterate. That being the case, how, without a sense  of shame, cap one speak of the success of education  in a country like Dahomey? And the position is the  same in nearly all the countries which English  colonialism is now quitting under the pressure of the  liberation movement,
6.20 Since the question of the civilizing mission of  the colonialist countries is 80 often raised, let me  quote a few viords from the will and testament of the  MEETINGS
413  XXvi  great Indian writer Rabindranath Tagore. This is  what he wrote, as he was taking leave of us: "The  day will come when by the will of fate the English  will be obliged to quit their Indian colony, But what  kind of India will they leave behind them, what dread-  ful misery? When the river of centuries-old English  dominion dries up, at long last, how much filth and  slime will remain on the river-bed?". Rabindranath  Tagore vical on to say: "There was once a time when  I kelieved that the springs of civilization welled from  the heart of Europe, but today, when I am making  ready to quit the world, not even a vestige of that  belief has remained". These are Tagore's urforget-  table words, and whatever efforts are made to sell us  the idea of the love of the English monopolies for the  enslaved countries, we shall always remember them,  Unfoi gettable words indeed.
6.21 This is a deadly assessment of the rôle of tae  colonialists; and many delegates from recently liber-  ated countries have had something to say about this,  in fact, at the United Nations General Assembly, I  should like to recall the words spoken in New York by  the Mali delegate, Ousman Ba: " We are not aware  that slavery has any positive aspects’. Neither fs  the world, gentlemen, aware of any positive aspects  of slavery.
6.22 Naturally, certain colontalists Fave no objec-  tion at present to forgetting the past, for it all too  clearly shows the path they took, But the peoples  cannot forget it, and our Organization would not be  doing its duty if it failed to condemn colonialism in  all its forms and manifestations.
6.23 Iagrev with Mr, Thayer, of course, that there
1s no need to bring up the story of how ancient Rome  subjugated Europe, That was in the distant past, and  can be forgotten. But what is happening now in the  Congo, what is happening in Algeria, what is happen-  ing in Laos and what is happening in certain countries  of Latin America - these are things we must not forget.  They are matters of the present, rather than past  history. We must remembor them, we must talk about  them, for otherwise our discussions about education  would be hypocritical,
6.24 Some delegates here have tried to suggest, in  their speeches, that reminders about colonialism and  its past engender hatred between peoples, No, gentle-  men, nothing 18 more untrue than an affirmation of  that kind. The truth is that the French, English and  American peoples are one thing, and the French,  English and American monopolies and colonialists  are another, We never confuse the two and neither  can anyone else, It is impossible to confuse the  peoples with the monopolists who conduct a colonial  policy of plunder and violence. -
6.25 We have, and always will have, the utmost  respect for the American, French and English peoples,  and for their cultural greatness and creative genius.  But that does not prevent us from being totally ir-  reconcilable in our attitude towards the colonialiste  and monopolists and any condonation of their pillaging  of the colonies is out of the question.
6.26 The trith is that some of the plunder from the  colonies has always found its way into the pockets of  the higher officials, and sometimes of the middle  classes of the population. That is true; it is a fact.  But the peoples, the workers in those countries, were  and are, opposed to colonial policy. Take, for instance,   XXVI PLENARY  the French workers, who, under the leadership of  their militant party, have always fought, and are now  fighting against the colonial policy of the ruling  classes,
6,27 - The appeals 80 often made here to forget the  past simply amount, in fact, to attempts to weaken  the vigilance of the colonial peoples. Life teaches  that the colonialists, who are giving way under the  preasure of the liberation struggle, are trying to  restore their domination and to retain their hold on  the wealth of the colonies. In our day, they have  even had recourse to hiding themselves behind the  flag of the United Nations.
6.28 Events in the Congo, the plot against the  Cuban people to bring it to its knees and restore the  domination of the United States monopolies, the  attempts to suppress the national liberation movement  in Algeria - these and many other things teach the  peoples to be vigilant, They teach them that the  colonialists surrender nothing of their own free will,  Every concession is wrested by force, each step  towards freedom is the result of a struggle. The  events in the Congo and the forcible suppression of  the Lumumba Government are dispelling any remain-  ing spirit of patriarchal trust in the new oppressors.
6.29 ‘The draft resolution which we are today dis-  cussing does not include the proposal made by the  Soviet Union delegation for the restoration by colonial  powers of even part of the wealth acquired by the  monopolies through exploitation.
6.30 We proposed its inclusion and submitted a  special resolution. It would be simple justice if the  former colonialists returned part of the plundertothe  former colonies so that it could be used for educa-  tional and cultural needs.
6.31 The Indian delegaté, at the XVth General  Assembly of the United Nations, Mr. Menon, pro-  posed that a special levy amounting to $16,000, 000, 000  a year should be imposed on the industrially developed  countries for the development of the underdeveloped  countries. He proposed it as a form of repayment of  merely a part of the enormous profite which the  colonialists had squeezed out of the colonies and  dependent territories over the course of many  decades.
6.32 I should like to emphasize once again the  direct relationship existing between colonial plunder  and questions of education, as witness the experience  of my own country, Informer times foreign monopo-  lies extracted enormous profits from Russia. The  largest enterprises in our country belonged to French,  English and German shareholder-monopolists, In  those days most of our people were illiterate, for  the masiers of the country were the foreign monopo-  lists. Eut when the State structure in our country  changed, whèn we expelléd the foreign monopolists,  resourcés immediately became available for educa-  tion, also, and in a very short space of time our  country cessed to be backward and became a leading  country in the field of science; education and culture.
6.33 In other words, the whole point 1s to throw  the foreign exploiters out of the country. This is the  central problem,
6.34 In those days, too, we were told that the  working class in Tsarist Russia could not cope with  the task of social construction, that it lacked experi-  ence, that it was absolutely necessary to have
114  MEETINGS  foreigners to help the Soviet Union, Nothing of the  kind. The working class coped with these problems,  created its own intelligentsia in all branches of science  and culture, and forged well ahead,  €.35 You will recall how 16 imperialist countries  attacked Soviet Russia in order to destroy the new  State and restore the former foreign masters in our  country, But we smashed these interventionists,  defended freedom in our country and went boldly  ahead towards the heights of science, culture and  education,
6.36 Herein, lies the key problem, and we regret  that the draft resolution now before ua takes insuffici-  ent account of this great and unforgettable experience,  At the same time, however, we are convinced that  the experience of the Great October Socialist Revolu-  tion, the experience of socialist construction in the  Soviet Union, will always be preselt before the eyes  of the peoplés who have gained freedom or are  struggling to achieve it.
6.37 Much has been said here about philanthropic  grants on behalf of the colonial peoples. There has  been talk of certain sums which the colonizers are  giving for education and cultural needs. This, gentle-  men, is a half-measure, it may be useful, but it does  not solve the problem,
6.38 I should like to quote what the delegate of the  Republic of Guinsa, speaking in New York at the  United Nations General Assembly said: "Yesterday's  oppressors, speaking in the accents of pure philan-  thropists, are hoping to cajole the independent govern-  ments of Africa, represented in the United Nations  into supporting their reactionary policy". Such is  the price of this philanthropy.
6,39 In our opinion, the solution of the problem  les in effective and all-round help to countries in  raising the level of their economy, culture and educa-  tion both through the organs of the United Nations and  through Unesco, as well as on a bilateral basis, The  Soviet Union, for its part, has given and will give help  to the underdeveloped countries without attaching any  political conditions, on the basis of mutual respect  and independence,
6,40 While we are on the subject of colonialism,  gentlemen, 1 should like to draw attention to several  manifestations of what might be called vestiges of  colonialism within Unesco.
6,41 Can anyone deny the existence of such pheno-  mena in the présent method, for example, of selecting  the staff of Uneaco, where the overwhelming majority  of posts are occupled by represéntatives of the West-  ern countries, and particularly those countries which  had or still have colonies? And attempts are being  made to perpetuate this state of affairs; it is proposed  to give practically life tenurè to officials on the Unesco  staff, which means that for decades the representa-  tives of the countries of Asia and Africa will not be  allowed sufficiently wide access to Unesco.
6.42 Can this be described as just? No, it is  decidedly unjust and I consider it essential to arrange  matters so that, within two or three years, at least  one-half of the Unéaco staff is composed of repre-  sentatives of the countries of Asia and Africa, includ-  ing the People's Republic of China. At least one-half|  Then we shall be getting justice!
6.43 Consider the nature of the work of our Confer-  ence and the staffing of the delegations, The French   PLENARY  delegation consiste of 57 members, including assis-  tants and experts, The United States delegation has
29 members, and the United Kingdom delegation 26,  Nor is our own delegation a small one, With delega-  tions of this size, the representatives of the big  countries can'sit on commissions, make many  speeches and exercise influence, But what about the  representatives of the African countries? Their  delegations are small, consisting of two, three or  four members, They do not manage to attend com-  missions or working committees, and are unable in  practice to work like the representatives of the great  powers and big countries, Is this fair? Hardly. We  must make a radical change in the nature of the work  of the Conference so that large countries and small  can participate equally,
6.44 It is impermissible that certain countries  which pay a large part of the expenses of Unesco  should give ordérs, should suddenly begin to say  "We are quitting Unesco", and thus exert pressure  on the other countries. This is not right, either. If  creates a situation of inequality of rights, and is a  vestige of colonialism in the work of Unesco,
6,45 Lastly, let us take Unesco's programme,  Here, too, the fear of effective measures to help the  underdeveloped countries is percéptible. I comment  on only one fact, It is stated, in the appraisal of  Unesco's programmes for the Economic and Social  Council, that in 1961 a first study will be made of  training facilities for mass communication in Africa,  with special attention to the requirements of newly  independent States. This is for 1961, It is further  stated that this study will lay the basis for action, in
1963-1864, for development of professional training  in Africa, The conclusion is that the African countries  will have to wait three or four years before Unesco  lifts a finger to go ahead with professional training.  Is this the proper way to do things? Surely this is  not the way to organize the work of our Organization,  which claims to be helping the underdeveloped  countries.
6,46 There are many such facts regarding Unesco's  activity. What we need is a blast of fresh wind to  blow through Unesco's work and programmes in order  to sweep away all vestiges of colonialism,
6.47 The Soviet Government recently made a state-  ment about the situation in the Congo. We transmitted  it officially to the President of our Conference, and  we hope that he will bring it to the notice of all the  Conference delegates. This statement, gentlemen,  makes an exhaustive analysis of what ja taking place  in the Congo. It says that events in the Congo are  destroying the spirit of sérvility, the naive bellef in  the promises being made by the colonialists from the  rostrum of the Unitéd Nations. But this servile spirit  lives on in cértain countries.
6,48 Already the peoples are regarding the colonial-  ists and their henchmen with anger. Among the popu-  lar masses there is a growing consciousness of the  need for a radical change, a consciousness of the  impossibility of continuing the colonial system, the  impossibility of compromise between the old order  of bondage and slavery and the new order of free-  dom. People everywhere are learning these things  from events in the Congo.
6,49 Gentlemen, despite our critical remarks, we  support this draft resolution which the representative
415  MEETINGS xXxvi  of Tunisia had the honour to present here in the name  of many countries. Despite its incompleteness, we  are convinced that it serves the cause of the libera-  tion of the peoples from colonial servitude and opens  before them the road to education, science and cul-  ture on terms of equality,
7. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon Mr. Abdesselem of tlie delegation of  Tunisia.
8.1 Mr, ABDESSELEM (Tunisia) (Translation from  the French);  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, a few days  ago Professor Mahadevan, the distinguished delegate  of India, said in hie speech during the discussion of  item 17.7 of the agenda that the real miracle of the  age in which we live is rot the perfecting of new means  of action or of physical destruction, but the large-scale  and almost simultaneous accession to independence of  a large number of countries which have hitherto been  dependent, If, as we believe, it is true that human  progress is at the basis of all scientific and technical  progress and that the advancement of mankind is the  final aim of all research and all activities, the pres-  ent epoch will be characterized and justified in the  eyes of future generations by the speed and success  of a process by which, over a period of a few decades,  all the peoples of the earth have achieved full exercise  of their rights and responsibilities as human beir7s.
8.2 Although this process throws a strong light oh  the immediete problems and difficulties of mankind,  it is likely in the long run, providing mankind has  sense enough not to destroy itself, to be a factor in  the universal development of sciénce and culture,  Unesco, first of all through its Director-General and  secondly through the eleventh session of its General  Conference, has endeavoured to adapt itself to this  historical process, an effort which, although it is  necessarily limited, is nonc the less commendably  substantial, Quite recently our Programme Commis-  sion, in response to the vast needs and the urgent  appeal of the newly independent countries of Tropical  Africa for more education and a more modern culture,  agreed to revise the budget estimates,
8.3 For their part, those countries which have been  independent for a few years have drawn up and parti-  ally carried out plans of educational and cultural  development in line with the confidence place in them  and the solidarity shown them, But above and beyond  programmies of assistance and the applause which”  greets newly independent States on their admission to  Unesco, there is, 1 believe, a feeling which trans-  cends the sympatliy we feel for one or another of these  new States and which includes them all or - to be  more exact - goes farther still extending to the inevit-  able advance of mankind towards more liberty, more  fraternity and more happinéss. There is also the  conviction that the speeding up of this move towards  a world worthier of mankind is a moral advance to-  wards the creation of a world of physicel and moral  harmony. We consider that Unesco should clearly  express this conviction and its awareness of this  progress and declare its satisfaction and determina-  ‘ tion to contribute by all the means at its disposal  towards the consolidation, maintenance and speeding  up of that progress.   xxvi PLENARY
8.4 Education, science and culture, even more than  other human activities, need a breadth of view exceed-  ing that of the technician closely confined within the  limits of his daily job. Education, science and cul-  ture demand that the lofty principles which govern our  activities should be explained or reaffirmed, By do-  ing so, by reasserting thé right of peoples to enjoy  more liberty and to benefit from their independence,  Unesco remains faithful to its origins and to its  Constitution; that Constitution, addressed to all  nations, declares that the dignity of man demands  the wide diffusion of culture and the education of  humanity for justice, liberty and peace and that the  last war was made possible by the denial of the  democratic principles of the dignity, equality and  mutual respect of men, and by the propagation in  their place of the doctrine of the inequality of men  and races,
8.5 By a clear expression that it is aware of the  beneficial effects of the liberation of all peoples and  all nations, the General Conference of Unesco will  be faithful to the very spirit of these programmes of  education, information and exchange which, over  and above their details, signify solidarity and  fraternity, But fraternal solidarity can only exist  among nations which are free and equal, in their  rights and in their responsibilities, and are there-  fore fully sovereign. it excludes all inequality and  all spirit of domination, Here once again I will re-  call the preamble to the Unesco Constitution, nearly  every paragraph of which mentions the dignity of man.  It is self-evident that the dignity of man involves  liberty and equality. It is obvious that men's free-  dom may be restricted and their equality upset by  the inequality of nations and by the power of one to  rule the destinies of:another. Subjection to foreign  rule places any country in a position of all-round  inferiority, in which the limitation of cultural  development is closely bound up with that of political  rights - in the same way that dictatorship limits the  free pursuit of objective truth and that-free exchange  of ideas and knowledge which the preamble to the  Unesco Constitution congiders the necessary condition  for all human progress.
8.6 We should not be deluded by any partial suc-  cesses that may be plaved to the credit of certain  colonial systems, any more than we can be converted  into disciples of political tyranny by the accomplish-  ments of certaih *ù-called énlightened despots, For  every item on the credit sidé it is eusy to find debit  balances and indictments of failure, Above all we  cannot accept that freedom it an evil from which a  part of the human race must be preserved, That we  cannot do without opening the door to the doctrine of  the inequality of races and mien, which, twenty years  ago, brought disaster to mankind and which continues -  though fortunately only locally - to be a disgrace to  mankind and a danger to its future, implying as it  does hatred and recourse to violence,
8.7 Let us not deceive ourselves, The movement  of independence which is sweeping through the world
4ims at restoring man to his full dignity. President  Bourguiba, Head of the Tunisian State, summed up  this aspect of independence in the speech he made on
1 August 1959 at the opening of the Second Conference  of African Students: "The alm of independence and  national liberation is to restore human dignity. A  MEETINGS  man who is subject to foreign law has his dignity  insulted; but dignity is an inherent right of every man  no matter what his race, his colour, or the country  or area from which he cornes’!
8.8 But the attainment of independence and the restora-  tion of man's dignity release energies hitherto dormant  and arouse an enthusiasm which could not find an out-  let 80 long as men were deprived of responsibility.  It is for the common good that these enargles are  deployed and this enthusiasm aroused; this year and  in this very hall you have heard encouraging echos of  it. Speeches that we have listened to remind me of  something else which Presldent Bourguiba said;  "Independence is necessary, not only to get rid of  foreign rule but also to guide a country towards the  training of leaders, to an economic and social struggle  to raise the standard of living, to combat ignorance,  obscurantism and poverty. Only national statesmen  devoted to their countries and holding the reins of  power can do this; foreign rulers cannot make an  acceptable job pf it",
8,9 President Bourguiba went on to says "The  struggle for liberation is a perpetual battle, After  politic.1l liberation come economic liberation and the  liberation of man from fanaticism, ignorance, poverty  and destitution, To free ourselves from economic,  cultural and social underdevelopment requires co-  operation with the powers who have outstripped us,  Even if we have painful memories of their domination,  once we have rid ourselves of it, we must get them to  co-operate with us",
8.10 Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we want  the era of domination and exploitation to give place,  as now appears inevitable, to an era of equality and  co-operation, without violence and, so far as possible,  in a spirit of friendship and mutual understanding,  Some countries which have transformed their relations  with certain of their former colonies have understood  this. We note with satisfaction and hope that these  great nations will succeed in transforming their rela-  tions with the other territories still dependent on  them. We hope that, to this end, they will succeed  in overcoming the difficulties they meet. These, how-  ever great, are nothing compared with the dangers  of delaying recognition of independence. We think  that it is the duty of international organizations to  help overcome these difficulties; we believe that the  effort of moral reconversion implied in the re-  fashioning of international relations is sometimes  such a difficult one that it calls for help and advice  for both colonizers and colonized.
8.11 This fs the spirit in which, in order to substi-  tute negotiation and co- operation for the vicious  circle of violence and war, the President of the  Tunisian Republic with admirable foresight proposed  as far back as 2 March 1959 a round-table for the  purpose, as he expressed it, "of allowing Mankind  to emerge from the colonial age and to enter into  that of co-operation’. Here is an extract from what  President Bourguiba said: "I can easily imagine a  big conference uniting all countries which still have  colonies or semi-colonial territories, Meeting  among themselves, these countries might come to an  agreement. Next they would invite representatives  of the people concerned to a round-table conference  or they might set up committees for studying the  cages of individual countries separately and considering
416   PLENARY  their possibilities and particular conditions, In this  way, the development of colonized people will be  carried out without terrorism, violence and anarchy.  Negotiation between the colonizers and the colonized,  while fixing the stages and methods of emancipation,  would also have to include a study of plans for assis-  tance and economic recovery. The peoples must be  saved from underdevalopment which is a form of  slavery",
8.12 That then {8 what we believe and that is the  programme we are trying to the best of our ability  to pursue, Both are inspired by the experience of a  country which, in the words of the leader of its  liberation movement, has freed itself from the  colonial era without hate and without resentment,  We believe that this attitude is essential in order to  have a clear realization of the problems facing us  and to assess the exact situation in which we are  placed, We are therefore particularly glad to find  ourselves in this respect in agreernent with many  African and Aslan delegations and espectally those  which have drawn up and signed document 11 C/DR,187  submitted to the Working Party responsible for the  drawing up of à reaolution on item 28 of the agenda.
8.13 We are also glad that this document, like  documents 11 C/DR.183 and 11 C/DR. 125, submitted  by the delegates of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, were approved and that they were all used  in framing draft resolution 11 C/45 which is now sub-  mitted to the consideration of the General Conference.
8.14 It is particularly important for us that the  spirit rather than the letter of the document we have  drawn up has been preserved. It is essentially a  matter of reaffirming principles and of clearly de-  fining the rôle which Unesco could play in hastening  the independence of peoples who are still dependent  without useless harping on the past and without refer-  ence to the rancours dividing us.
8.15 Iam also much gratified by the quasi-  unanimity with which the Working Party adopted the  various articles of this draft resolution, for out of  ten delegates eight voted for all of them, and the  abstention of the two others never appeared - if I am  not mistaken - as a hostile abstention, 1 recall these  facts, which were mentioned in the report and pointed  out by Mr, Messadi, the Chairman of the Working  Party, in order to tell you how much I hope that this  discussion will continue in the atmosphere of under-  standing and unanimity which marked the proceedings  of the Working Party, I would therefore urgently  appeal to all delegates, particularly to those who  might be inclined to abstain for political reasons,  ‘An isolated case or témporary difficulties, which  human patience and, if necessary, international co-  operation could solve, must not be allowed to pre-  vent one of us from subscribing to the unanimous  affirmation of Unesco's vital rôle in contributing to  the attainment of independence which this Conference  should proclaim, .
8.16 I therefore ask you to, vote, without hesitation  or reservation, in favour of resolution 11 C/DR.45  as submitted by the Working Party.
8.17 Unanimous agreement about this declaration,  reached in the atmogphere which attended the dis-  cussions of the Working Party, will confirm the  unanimous fidelity of Member States of Unesco to the  principles of the Organization. Such unanimity  MEETINGS XXVv1  seems to me to be worthy of the high purpose we .  have assigned ourselves and will show our determina-  tion to assume the heavy but exalted responsibilities  of men of this century,
8.18 Since the great French poet Saint- John Perse  is being universally honoured this year, 1 shall end  with a quotation from a very recent publication of his  devoted to literature and poetry in particular, but  which seems to me to be very apt to our present situa-  tion.
8.19 Here it is: "Le vrai drame du siècle est dans  l'écart qu'on laisse croftre entre l'homme temporel  et l'homme intemporel. L'homme éclairé sur un  versant va-t-il s'obscurcir sur l'autre? Et sa  maturation forcée dans une communauté sans  communion ne sera-t-elle que fausse maturité" ?  And again: .,.''Car l'heure est grande et neuve où  se saisir à neuf; et à qui donc céderions-nous  l'Honneur de notre temps? ''". To whom indeed would  we surrender that honour?
9, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish};  I call upon Mr. Sedlak of the delegation of  Czechoslovakia,
10.1 Mr. SEDLAK (Czechoslovakir) (Translation  from the Russian):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we have before  us the report of the Working Party and its draft resolu-  tion onthe rôle of Unesco in contributing to the attainment  of independence by colonial countries and peoples.
10,2 The delegation of the Cxechoslovak Socialist  Republic notes with satisfaction that the Working  Party has successfully completed its task and that  apart from one or two abstentions it unanimously  approved the proposed draft, this too, is evidence of  the importance of the question at issue. -
10.3 The United Nations and all the Specialized  Agencies have been required during the past 16 yeara  to fulfil the noble task, proclaimed in Chapters 11 and
12 of the United Nations Charter, of giving assistance  as quickly as possible to the colonial, trust and other  non- self-governing territories for the development  of their economy and culture, using all the means at  their command.
10.4 It has to be stated that the United Nations, and  especially the great powers, have beeh slow in fulfill-  ing this great task, But the peoples of the colonial  countries have not remained passive pending such  time as someone deigns to grant them freedom and  independence, On the contrary, they have clearly  shown, in a long and stormy fight for their national  freedom, that they will no longer put up with their  inequitable position. Their struggle and its outcome  confirm the old truth that ho power in the world can ‘  resist the movement of peoples towards freedom and  independence once they have set out to cunquer them.
10,5 We hold that the conquest of independence is  only the first step on the road to future development.  The colonial powers are trying, by all sorts of pre-  texts and under the guise of helping these countries,  to tighten the noose of thelr economic dependence by  unequal agreements and contracts involving various  political and military commitments. -
10.6 We are againat any kind of colonialism, old  and new, which fetters peoples in their creative up-  surge, in their free and independent development.
417   &XXVI PLENARY  We stand firmly on the side of the new States which  have thrown off the shackles of colonial slavery, And  we are of the opinion that all nations should help  them to occupy their due place in world history and  call a halt to any interference intheir international  affairs, as being a danger to peace.
10.7 Colonialism has suffered a shattering defeat  in present timea. More than 1, 500 million people  who were formerly slaves have taken the road of  national liberation,
10,8 ‘Together with this welcome fact, we see the  continued existence in a number of countries of such  shameful phenomena as colonial terror, the non-  recognition of the most fundamental human rights,  racialism, national superiority, the ferocious  exploitation of peoples and the suppression of national  culture, We must not blink the fact that inany millions  of people are still suffering from colonialism, which  means that colonialism has not yet been liquidated.
10.9 If, following the discussion of this question  at the XVth session of the United Nations General  Assembly, 1960 is to become thé turning point in  the process of the complete and final liquidation of  colonialism, "the African year", the year of libera-  tion of all peoples from colonial servitude, then im-  portant tasks devolve on our Conference, for all the  newly independent States and countries now winning  their freedom must be given effective help for the  rapid liquidation of the after-effects of colonialism.  These people must be afforded the possibility of peace-  ful construction and the development of their industry,  making use of all their natural resources, and must  also be helped, finally, in avoiding the lop-sided  development of their national economy so that they  can create all the necessary conditions for the ad-  vancement of education, culture and public Health,
10.10 The solution of this vital problem undoubtedly  calls for considerable material and financial resources.  Where are these to be found? It is impossible to  deny that vast resources could be released by general  and complete disarmament, about which we have  already spoken here on several occasions. It is of  course right that we should count on international  solidarity, and we hope that all peoples will be able  to liquidate these harmful after-effecta of colonialism,
10.11 We have already expressed the willingness  of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic to help the  new States, and the President of our Republic, Mr.  Novotny, referred to this matter in his speech at the  XVth session of thé United Nations General Assembly.  But we also feél - and our views were confirmed by  the statements of the representatives of several of  the African States during the general discussion -  that {t would be fair to demand the necessary re-  sources in the first place from those. colonial  countries which for centuries exploited the peoples  of these countries and their natural wealth, They  would thereby be handing back to these peoples a  small part of the profits received by them during  that time and would help them to wipe out the harm-  ful after-effects of colonialism,
10.12 Although the draft resolution does not fully  refiect the complete interests of the oppressed  peoples, and speoilically their fundamental demand  for the immediate liquidation of the colonial system,  the delegation of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic  considers it an essential contribution by Unesco to
418  MEETINGS  the effort to liquidate colonialism, and Will therefore  vote in favour of its adoption.
11,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish);  Ladies and gentlemen, you have just heard Mr,  Sedlak of the delegation of Czechoslovakia, There is  still a long list of speakers, which I shall read before  applying Article 72 of the Rules of Procedure and  closing this list, The speakers are: Sir David Eccles  (United Kingdom), Mr. de Berredo Carneiro (Brazil),  Mr, Chekanyuk (Ukraine), Dr, Walker (Australia),  Mr, Moussa Sangulana (Guinea), Mr. Posniak  (Byelorussia), Mr. Ganovski (Bulgaria). Does any-  one else wish to speak?
11.2 In addition to the names I have given, the  delegates of New Zealand, the Federal Republic of  Germany, Poland and Cuba have asked to be included  in the list of speakers,
11.3 With the addition of New Zealand, the Federal  Republic of Germany, Poland and Cuba, I declare the  list of speakers closed.
11.4 I call upon Sir David Eccles, Head of the delega-  tion of the United Kingdom,
12.1 Sir David ECCLES (United Kingdom):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, the United  Kingdom is one of the larger colonial powers, We  are therefore very interested in this resolution, We  do not like abstaining from a vote; it never seems to  be the part of someone with courage and a conviction  of his own. I would like to explain, nevertheless,  why I think we shall have to abstain on this occasion,  The truth is that we find this resolution good in part,  not bad in some other parts, very bad in one or two.  And I am very grateful, as others have been to the  dinstinguished delegate of Tunisia, for the gallant  attempt that hé and his Working Party made to formu-  late this resolution in a manner acceptable to all,  because it would have been a very good thing if that  could have been done. I would have liked; also, tc  express to him our regret that we were not able to  help him. But I think the Working Party was faced  with an impossible task, for this word "colonialism"  does not mean the same thing to all Member States.  Indeed, when I think of my own country arid remember  the noble part in our history, in peace and in war,  which our loyal colonies have played, 1 find it very  difficult to understand the interpretation of colonialism  given, quite sincerely no doubt, by some of the  Member States here. Colonialism is not a static con-  cept. It moves with history and for very many years  now British administrators and statésmen have re-  garded themselves as trustees for the people in our  dependent territories - trustees until the time when  those people could take over their own governments,  And 1f one asked what colonialism means to us in
1960, I would say that it is a policy of helping depend-  ent territories to prepare themselves to become  independent States, if they themselves wish to do so.  It is simply not true that all British colonies want to  be independent States. Quite a number of them are  so small, and so dependent for their economic life  upon the United Kingdom's economy, that we know  very well that if what is meant by independence  is to be entirely a sovereign State, quite a  number of them do not wish that, We will act as  the people wish.   PLENARY
12,2 Now, Sir, what is the result of the British  colonial policy? Sitting here in this Conference are  the representatives of our ex-colonial territories,  very much alive, free to speak their minds or to  vote against the United Kingdom on any occasion when  Unesco takes a vote. Nothing sinister would happen  to the representative of any one in the Commonwealth  here if he chose to speak or vote against the United  Kingdom, Not so, in some other groups.
12,3 In our British Commonwealth, any nation is  free to leave the family; I say leave the family, for  we are a family, we are not a bloc. We are all equal  in the true sense of equality that none of us wishes to  impose either doctrine or policy upon any of the  others. And we do a very great deal to help each  other. For many years now, we in the United  Kingdom have trained young men and women from  the Commonwealth territories in our universities,  deliberately helping them to become administrators  in their own countries. We have helped them at great  cost to set up universities and schools in their own  countries, It really is nonsense when the Communists  talk as though we were not spending great sums of  the British people's money on advancing the condition  of the people in the colonies. One has only to look  at the statistics to see that this is true. And of  course, if Uneaco can bring further resources to  that task of preparing colonial peoples for their inde-  pendence, and if, as a result of Unesco's help, the  time-table can be shortened to the point where these  people can sooner feel competent to govern them-  selves, no one will be more pleased than Her  Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom. It is  precisely for that sort of help that we put forward  resolution 182, co-sponsored by the delegation of  India - precisely in order to get some more help to  shorten the period. But you know it {8 né use saying  that we should be helping some of these people if we  withdrew tomorrow morning and left them to govern  themselves before we have been able - in this scienti-  fic age when it is so much more difficult - to train  sufficient manpower to govern their countries. It  would be no good leaving tomorrow mérning.
12,4 Ours is a steady policy of help, and that is  what coloniallsm means, as interpreied by the  British. I rejéct, absolutely, the céncépt that this  is a shameful policy, something whith was described  by the Soviet delegate, I think, as "an ulcer". In  fact, it is neithér injurious to the health nor the  wealth nor the happinéss of the pedplè for whom we  are temporarily the trustees, And 1 felt, when the  distinguished delegate of Tunisia vas making his  remarkable speech, that he was really on my side,  He was really only asking the colonial powers to  prepare every colony and every dependent territory  they still have to take their freedom as quickly as  possible. 1 felt our interpretation was really the  same. Now if that were the only interpretation of  colonialism, then we could a l vote together. But there  are other interpretations, we heard one given bythe dis-  tinguished delegate from the Soviet Union. Thereare  other kinds of colonies and there are other kinda of coloni-  alism, andI accept what the Soviet delegate asked us to  do - not to go back and produce historical examples of  the past, buttolooktothe present and the future.
12.5 Very well, gentlemen, if I ask this Confer-  ence which is the newest, the youngest colony in the  MEETINGS
419  XXVI  world, what would the Conference answer? You  would have to answer Tibet, you would have to answer  that it is that poor little country which never did any  harm to anybody, And if I asked you what other kind  of colonialism exists in the modern world, the worst  form of all of colonlaliem, surely, in Unesco, we  should have to reply that it is the exploitation of men's  minds, the exploitation of the human mind and the  human soul for the purpose of political or doctrinaire  power politica, Now if one asks what is the character-  istic of this new form of colonialism in our present  age, what is the answer? Where there is censorship  of books, newspapers and radio, there is colonlalism;  where there 18 not freedom for the individual to travel  unless his government will allow him to, there is  colonialism, And where men are arrested, put in  prison, confessions extorted - all without a proper  trial - there is colonialism, Where you have a  country inside a bloc which is refused free elections,  there you have colonialism, Mr, President, this is  the kind of colonialism against which an organization  like ours which stands for education, sclence and cul-  ture should vote. This is our real enemy. I feel that  in this resolution it is impossible to distinguish the  two kinds of colonfalism - that which comes out of the  past and in which my country has a clear policy which  is not shameful - on the contrary we think it is a  civilized policy - to train people who were very few  when we came. Compare the statistics of literacy  today with the total illiteracy we found, There were  only about a quarter of the number of people living in  these countries that there were when we left; we have  done a great deal, If that were what colonialism  meant, very well; but it means something else: it  means the exploitation of men's minds, which is the  Twentieth century form of colonialism, against which  we should all fight with all our strength.
12.6 One cannot, in this resolution, distinguish the  one from the other, and therefore with much regret,  Mr. President, we shall be obliged to abstain when  the vote is taken.
13. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon Mr. de Berredo Carneiro, Head of the  delegation of Brazil,
14.1 Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  (Translation from the French): i  Mr. President and delegates, every century has,  go far as possible; to repair the faults committed by  preceding centuries. Every generation thus makes  to human progress a constrictive contribution which  is both a corrective and an improvement.
14.2 The Twentieth century, at the present point in  its history, is conscientiously trying to atone for the  mistakes committed by the Nineteenth century, the -  unhappy consequences of which we are still experienc-  ing everywhere. But remedying an error néed not  imply execration, nor making it worse by committing  fresh faults, Which country's history is completely  free of sin? Our business here is not to sit in judge-  ment on the pagt nor to draw up a balance sheet of  he banes and benefits of colonialism. Our task is  to bring together former colonizers and former  colonies under a new watchword,
14,3 The cause of independence and freedom is  unaoubtedly the most sacred of all causes, All   XXVI PLENARY  national pantheons bear witness to the homage  rendered by all nations, East and West, to those who  fought and suffered for their country in the name of  independence and liberty.
14.4 Ibelieve, however, that the new countries  which are attaining independence, now that they are  free will only tighten the bonds to which they were  unable to attach their true value 80 long as they were  not free to accept them voluntarily.
14.5 Shall I ever forget a wonderful evening passed  in New Delhi when we were the guests of the President  of the Republic and found ourselves all together in a  magnificent hall beside the Prime Minister who had  fought for the independence of his country, and where  we were surrounded by life-size portraits of the former  British Governors of India?
14,6 Newly independent peoples should and do feel  that independence is not a break but a more intimate  and cordial union. I believe that this is the spirit in  which Unesco should try to open up the way to those  who are not yet independent and enable them in their  turn to become so, without violence, without shocks,  and without the scaffolds and guillotines on which  men's blood was spilt in the bygone history of our  countries. This is the spirit in which Unesco should  empty the past of all resentment and inculcate in the  newly liberated peoples a feeling of attachment to  the benefits received and of forgetfulness - 1 might  even say forgiveness - towards the faults of which  they were often the victims.
14.7 Thinking along these lines, I recall the  history of my own country. At the time of our inde-  pendence, in 1822, there were occasions when  harsh and often unjust waves of hatred turned us  against the beloved old country to which we had  formerly been linked by force. Since then, Portugal  and Brazil have felt themselves to be everyday more  solidly and more affectionately united - much more  s0 than in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth centuries,  when they were subject to the same Crown or the  same Government, -
14.8 Although the abolition of colonialism brings  great blessings to formerly colonized countries, it  .brings just as many to the former colonizers, Again  I will recall a page of my own country's history:  when we were struggling for the abolition of slavery,  the patriarch of our independence, that great states-  man, Joseph Boniface d'Andrade e Sylva, gave us  this warning: "The abolition of slavery brings even  more advantages to the whites than it does to the  blacks",
14,9 We should therefore all of us rejoice that the  day has come for Unesco to take part, not in a series  of struggles, but in the opening of an era of cordial  solidarity. . - .
14.10 The peoples who gain their independence  must understand that they do not thereby become  isolated and that in this newly acquired liberty, their  duty - and I believe their pride - will be to contribute  increasingly to making us all feel, as St. Paul  preached, members one of another, in a great  fedération of peoples under the common symbol  of freedom and prosperity, That is the spirit  in which I think we all ought, without resent-  ment and without showing ourselves to be  isolationists, unanimously to welcome this  fraternal resolution.  MEETINGS
15, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call on Mr, Chekanyuk, delegate of the Ukraine,
16,1 Mr, CHEKANYUK (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic) (Translation from the Russian}:  Mr. President and fellow delegates, expressing  the steadfast opinion of the delegation of Soviet  Ukraine, I hold that our Organization cannot remain  {indifferent to the fate of millions of people who are  still living in the grip of colonialism,
16.2 The colonial powera are still stubbornly try-  ing to halt, or at least to delay, this ineluctable and  regular process of the final liberation of the peoples  who are still languishing under the colonial yoke,  With that object In view, the colonial powers are still  having frequent recourse to economic and political  pressure and to direct armed intervention against the  new countries which have acceded to independence or  against those which are fighting to achieve it.
16.3 The colonialists, as we now see, in the Congo  and in other countries, are unable to acquiesce in the  fact that Africa, that fantastically rich continent, can  and should belong to its own peoples. Realizing, how-  ever, that their undivided sway over that continent is  coming to an end and that the colonial system is  bankrupt, they are exerting every effort to prolong  their dominion, even if only for a short while.
16.4 Colonial propaganda in the African colonies  has now adopted as its main burden, the thesis that  the former colonialists are not opposed to demands  for independence, But why rush matters, they ask,  seeing that most favourable conditions do not yet  exist? Certain things, they add, need to be completed,  certain problems need to be solved, this point has to  be made more precise, that has to be adjusted, some-  thing else has to be co-ordinated, and so on and so  forth. Meanwhile, the colonizers carefully evade the  question - how long will it take for things to be co-  ordinated or cleared up?
16.5 To this so-called "new policy" of the colonial-  ists, the following reply can be made: "There is no  point, gentlemen, in putting on the kind-Hearted nurse  act, Peoples who have liberated themselves have  become fully ripe for self-government. Experience  shows that liberated peoples are fully capable of  dealing with their own affairs", Evidence of this was  provided by the sagacious and eloquent speeches at  our Conference by several representatives of formerly  oppressed peoples, such as those by the representa-  tives of Ghana, the Central African Republic and  many other African States, - y
16.6 It was clearly and convincingly demonstrated  by facts, in the speeches of these and other delegates,  what colonialism had brought to the enslaved peoples:  the very lowest national income and the very lowest  wage-levels, but the highest mortality rate and the  extinction of whole tribes.
16,7 Thus, we see, gentlemen,: from the evidence  of speeches by the delegates from the former colonies,  that the colonialists!' assertions about their so-called  civilizing mission inthe colonies are not worth a brass  farthing, This matter was also referred to by delegates  atthe XVth session of the United Nations General  Assembly, where they denounced colonialism and un-  maskrdthe lie about its so-called civilizing mission.
16.8 1 should like to cite, for example, the pointed  statement made at the General Assemblyby RafikAsha,  > 420   PLENARY  the delegate of the United Arab Republic, He sald  that the colonialists talked about freedom and at the  same time filled the gaols with patriote fighting for  the independence of their countries, that they spoke  about fraternity and built new concentration camps  for the supporters of the national liberation move-  ment, that they uttered fine words about equality and  gave orders for mass executions. Such is the truth  about the colonialists! civilizing mission.
16,9 And is not the present behaviour of the  colonialists in the Congo, where they flout the will,  agpirations and laws of the Congolese people, a most  striking proof of how they are trying to maintain their  domination, bestriding mountains of corpses and  rivers of the blood of the population of that country?  Where is the civilization here? Honest people all  over the world brand such civilization as infamy,
16.10 By means of their "civilizing mission" and  their inhuman exploitation of the enslaved peoples,  they are trying to extract vast profits from these  countries. I shall not speak without the book: I  shall quote two facts mentioned by the Head of the  Ukrainian delegation, N.V, Podgorny, in his speech  at the XVth session of the United Nations General  Assembly, During the period 1950-1958, the United  States increased private direct investments in  economically underdeveloped countries of Asla,  Africa and Latin America by 4, 100 million dollars  but they imported from these countries, in the form  of profits on its capital, the sum of 11,300 million  dollars. Thus in the course of some nine years the  United States has received a clear profit of 7,200  million dollars - a huge sum which is a net deduction  from the national wealth of underdeveloped countries,
16,11 Here is the second fact, The United Kingdom  representative has said here that he does not under-  stand the word "colonialism", 1 shall try to answer  his question, According to figures supplied by a  British bank, Britain's capital investment in the  Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland amounted at  the end of 1856 to £130 million. The profits and  dividends for one year alone amounted to £17, 700, 000,  A nominal share capital of no more than £44, ‘800, 000  brought dividends of £14, 890, 000, representing a  rate of profit of 33%, and for gome companies the  vate was 50%, If this is not daylight robbery of the  enslaved peoples, if this 18 not a sheer disgrace,  then what {8 it, gentlemen? These facts relate to the  economic aspect of the meaning of the word  "colonialism", So far as the political aspect is con-  cerned, I would ask the dist'aguished delegate of the  United Kingdom to analyse the events and the colonialists'  activities in Kenya, and there you will have an exact  reply about the sense of the word "colonialism",
16.12 The responsibility for all that was done in  the former colonies rests with those countries that  lorded it there, Both justice and humanity demand  that these countries restore part of the plunder to  the colonies in order to liquidate the harmful after-  effects of colonialism, as was proposed in the Soviet  Union resolution.
16,13 And now as to the question of Tibet, which  was raised here by the distinguished representative  of the United Kingdom. The question of Tibet was  decided long ago, and by none other than the Tibetan  people themselves, who linked their fate with the  great Chinese people for all time.  MEETINGS XXVI.
16,14 To the second question, also raised by the  same delegate, as regards censorship, the reply is  very simple; any good housewife who is anxious to  keep the atmosphere in her home clean, shuts the  window when a stench is coming from the house next  door,
16.15 And now as regards communist ideas, Yes,  we welcome communist ideas, and we are proud that  we have taken them up and are carrying them into  effect, for they are the idead of the vanguard of man-  kind, They emerged even before the Soviet Union  was created, and it was with these ideas that Russia,  the Ukraine and other socialist countries were vic-  torious. The peoples set up their own people's power  and are flourishing by developing these ideas.
16.16 We consider that our Conference, as an im-  portant international forum, should forthrightly con-  demn the colonial systom and solemnly declare its  full support for the demands of the peoples for the  rapid liquidation of the colonial system and for the  granting of independence to all colonial countries and  peoples,
16.17 It is this action which the draft resolution  presented by the Soviet Union delegation calls for, It  is to this that reference is made, albeit in weaker  terms, in draft resolution 11 C/45 presented by the  Working Party.
16.18 Our Conference cannot stand aside from  these burning issues. It should use its influence with  all the means at our disposal, in favour of a positive  solution. The peoples of the world are awaiting this  solution from our Organization. That is why the  delegation of Soviet Ukraine will vote in favour of the  draft resolution presented by the Working Party even  though we should have preferred the Soviet Union  draft resolution.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish);  I call on Dr. Ronald Walker, Head of the delegation  of Australia,
18.1. Mr. WALKER (Australia):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, Unesco has a  special responsibility at this time to assist the newly  independent States, and those that will scon become  independent, in their efforts to overcome illiteracy,  the shortage of trained personnel and other aspects  of underdevelopment in the field of education, science  and culture. Unesco has a special responsibility to  these nations.
18.2 Of course, Unesco has a general responsibility  to help the peoples of all Member States that require  such assistance, and there are many States that have  been independent “for long years and have been mem-  bers of Unesco since the beginning that need Unesco's  help in their struggle with terrible problenis of  illiteracy, lack of schools and widespread poverty.  But Unesco has a special responsibility to the newly  independent nations and those approaching independ-  ence, because in many cases they have special needs  and their governments have new and often unfamiliar  responsibilities,  "18.3 In the Programme Commission, we have ap-  proved quite a number of projects specifically or  mainly designed to assist such countries, and the  Australian delegation firmly supports this emphasis  in Unesco's future programme, Australia strongly
421   XXv1  supporté Unesco assistance in countries seeking it,  both through our contribution to Unesco and United’  Nations programmes and through the supplementary  assistance which we give to education in Asia and  elsewhere under the Colombo Plan and other pro-  grammes. We would welcome the adoption by the  Conference of a resolution which would stress the  new emphasis in Unesco's programme on assistance  to the newly independent countries and those that are  soon to be independent - a'resolution couched in  terms that would be likely to strengthen the genéral  spirit of co-operation between all members of Unesco.
18,4 But we do not consider it appropriate that  Unesco should attempt to make broad pronouncements  on colonialism and its abolition or on the pre-  conditions for self-government or independence in  this way, The subject of progress towards self-  government or independence of colonies is one for  the United Nations General Assembly. It is covered  specifically by certain provisions of the Charter and  it 1e currently being debated by the Assembly. To  debate here a draft resolution with highly political  overtones and some tendentious and objectionable  features, in our opinion, tends to draw this  Specialized Agency into a highly charged controversial  political arena, to the detriment of its practical job of  assisting the development of educational standards  and promoting co-operation in its own fields among  Member States.
18.5 ‘We fear that in preparing this resolution the  understandable enthusiasm of those concérned in  drafting it has led them to make some statements to  which exception can be taken. ‘There are many  things in this resolution with which we agree, but  there are a number of controversial features which,  I fear, will make it unacceptable to some delegations.  We regret this because it would surely have been  possihle to obtain general agreement on a more con-  structive statement of what Unesco is doing and what  this Organization is called upon to do in its own  sphere, without encumbering it with a number of  emotionally charged generalizations of a political  nature that are bound to sow misunderstandings and  digsension ‘where understanding and agreement are  needed, and which consequently will tend only to re-  strict the efficacy of Unesco's action, The speech  of the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics this morning and those that have followed  it from some countries closely associated with the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, make it clear  that their main objective has been to sow dissension,  Ag now drafted, this declaration rather confuses the  rôle of Unesco with" the responsibilities of govern-  ments and the responsibilities of the United Nations.  The declaration we are now asked to adopt states  tbat colonlaligm in all its forms ond all its manifesta-  tions must bé speedily abolished, but there are parts  . of the world where an unduly ‘precipitate withdrawal  of the present administering authority would undoubtedly  lead to ¢haos and human suffering, and in some cases  to a relapse into savagery. Therc are also some  dependent territories which are too small in popula-  tion and too poor in resources to wish to stand on  their own feet in'the modern world.
18.6 We belieyé that all countries which administer  dépendent territories must work actively in associa-  tion with the United Nations and with Unesco to bring  Le
422  PLENARY MEETINGS  IN  about the day when those territories can adopt free  political institutions, But we do not think it appro-  priate for Unesco to make at this time a‘sweeping  generalization of the kind made in this resolution,
18.7 We are also asked to subscribe to the declara-  tion that accession to freedom and independence must  not be delayed on the false pretext that a particular  territory has not reached a sufficiently high standard  in economic, social, educational and cultural matters,  What exactly does this senlence mean? Does it mean  that once a particular territory has reached a suffici-  ently high standard in economic, social, educational  and cultural matters, its accession to independence  must not be delayed on the false pretext that it has  not reached such a standard? Everyone would accept  this if it were stated unambiguously. |
18.8 The Australian delegation has serious objec-  tions to the part of the resolution ‘that refers to harm-  ful after-effects of colonialism; such as economic,  social and cultural underdevelopment, illiteracy, and  the serious shortage of trained personnel. No one °  denies that colonialism has always some bad features,  and often leaves some evil after-effects. But, Mr,  President, in terms of truth, there are many depend-  ent territories and à number of newly independent  States where it 18 simply not true that illiteracy, for  instance, 1s a consequence or an after-effect of  colonialism; - There are a number of territories,  where the people had no written language of their own,  no common language of their own in many cases,  where in fact it is tt ‘administering authority that  has initiated, organized and largely financed the  struggle to educate the people and the development of  a written language, and where the illiteracy would be  much worse today had 1t riot been for the constructive  efforts of the administering government. And this is  not denied by the people of those countries, or the  people who have studied this matter, The terms of  the resolution seem to us to ignore these facts.
18.9 Fortunately, when we reach the final paragraph  of the resolution, we come to an appeal which all men  of goodwiil must surely support. The Australian dele-  gation stands strongly behind this objective of free-  dom for all peoples. Freedom is an {deal that we  would like to see applied to all peoples, and not only  those who inhabit colonies at present, or former  colonies in Asia and Africa; we would like to see it  applied to the peoples of the world. However, Mr.  President, despite our appreciation and understand-  ing of the motives behind this general resolution,  there are some thinga in it which we find unaccept-  able and we therefore feel obliged to abstain when the  vote is taken.
19, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish);
1 call upon Mr. Camera Moussa Sanguiana, Head  of the delegation of Guinea.
20,1 Mr, MOUSSA SANGUIANA (Guinea) (Transla-  tion from the French):  Mr. President and delegates, I would like first of  all to express my thinks on behalf of the delegation  of the Republic of Guinea to the United States of  America, the Federal Republic of Germany,  Yugoslavia and many other Member States for the  exceptional contribution they have just made to  Unesco's work for increased assistance to   PLENARY  underdeveloped countries, particularly the young  African States. ‘This generous gesture symbolizes  once again the willingness of great countries to con-  tribute to the recovery of peoples whose destiny is  now the destiny ôf the world and whose participation,  no matter how small on account of the limited means  available, is not for that reason less necessary to  the progress of mankind, When we consider, that  in this age of the atom and automation which opens  bright prospects in all fields of human activity,  millions of men, admitted into this great family of  nations, still live physically and intellectually naked,  we may well agk ourselyes whether this advancement  may not be another factor of discord, dispute and  disorder instead of raising human thought towards  the constructive solidarity and brotherhood of peoples.  Be that as it may, our Organization, which inspires  such high hopes because it is at the service of reason  and universal progress, has the honour of playing,  in this changing world, the part of a regulator and an  eliminator of conflicts which might arise from differ-  ences in standards of living and in culture,
20.2 There are differences which {imply neither  inferiority nor antagonism, Our activities merge in  the service of the ideals which ennoble Unesco's  work, in the service of human advancement and uni-  versal peace, But we shall only have skimmed the  surface of the problem if we deal merely with effects  in our anxiety not to exceed our terms of reference.  The evils from which the civilized world suffers have  their causes, and colonialism is not the least of these.  No country which has been subjected to it in the past  or is stiil subjected to it today nor, more generally,  any country which loves justice and liberty, can sub-  scribe to an attitude which may slow down the march  of events towards universal progress and world  peace, Our suspicions are therefore justified when  we hear voices raised in this hall which point to the  non-political nature of our Organization and try to  prevent the formation of a common front against the  forces of evil, particularly against colonialism in  all its forms and all its aspects, when such a front  ts necessary if our action is to be effective, The  universality at which we aim will remain theoretical  and unattainable if, as men of conscience and good  faith, we desist from telling one another the truth,  and the whole truth. Guinea considers that to deceive  eminent colleagues from all parts of the world, when  it comes to shedding light upon the darkness of human-  ity and spreading the progress of culture and science,  is a grave betrayal of the conscience and peace of  the world.
20.3 It may be that we of Guinea have understood  that conscience is not to be paltered with. Undoubtedly  we speak in terms which may not be calculated to  please everyone at international meetings, but they  are the terms of truth, and truth is often hard to  swallow. Our great President Sékou Touré whose  strong pérsonality wins much sympathy among the  revolutions and changes going on today in the dark  continent, said in reply to the flood of lies dissemin-  ated about his country: "Guinea does not belong to  any international bloc. It pursues a policy in accord-  ance with its interests and those of Africa, of which  it forms an integral part, and in the cause of world  peace. Naturally, it welcomes the tokens of sympathy  and assistance offered it by friendly nations. That
423  MEETINGS XXXVI  does not mean that Guinea has any intention of  attaching {tself to any ideological system" .-
20.4 To come back to the subject, I must admit  that in spite of repeated warnings against introducing  politics into our Organization, we have listened to  attacks which are not cultural but political ones, A  refusal to recognize them is to shut our eyes to a  fact which is poisoning the international atmosphere  and thus endangering the success of our activities,
20.5 You have welcomed new countries into Unesco.  Their representatives are sitting among you because  they are independent and sovereign, Africa, there-  fore, can only contribute to the development of educa-  tion; science and culture when it has become  independent, It would seem therefore difficult, if not  impossible, to forbid all discussion on the liquidation  of the political and social phenomena which prevent  our Organization from extending its activities and  making them more effective. It is obvious that this  is a primary, even fundamental, condition to  which we must give attention, if we fully grasp the  evils of colonialism and the danger it represents for  peace. '
20.6 The distinguished delegate of the United States  of America finished his speech on 21 November last  by saying: "Let us go forward leaving none behind",  No matter what our wishes or our faith in the task  which Unesco has assumed, it would appear difficult  to attain our objectives if political factors continue  to disturb relations between the peoples and to create  snocks by provoking misunderstanding, distrust and  hate. The constant tension in which the world is living  and the cold war which all of us here condemn compel  nations which could do more in aid of underdeveloped  countries, to mobilize colossal resources for pur-  poses contrary to the happiness of mankind and to the  civilization which we want to raise to the highest  possible level,
20.7 We, the members of the Guinea delegation,  consider that Unesco, this institution for peace and  progress, will only be in a position to fulfil the rôle  we have the right to expect of it in à world swept free  of old prejudices and sheltered from attitudes which  vitiate the moral climate of fraternity and solidarity,  Like the rest of thé world, we want to savour the joys  of being different but together, and we cannot accept  that, out of respect for the supposédly non-political  character of Unesco, the language of truth which  could largely contribute to the success of our work is  discarded on'some pretext of expediency, If you want  the whole world to profit by the soclal and cultural  influence exerted by our Organization, first of all  give it the conditions which will enable it to express  itself without constraint and to respond to your appeal  by a proper appreciation of the contribution you are  making to it.
20.8 It is with this end in view that the Guinea  delegation warmly supports the resolution in favour  of contributing to the attainment of independence by  oppressed countries s0 aa to create that true universal  conscience essential to brotherly international co-  operation,
21, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish):  I call upon Mr. Abdesselem of the Tunisian delega-  tion, to speak on a point of order.   XXv1
22.1 Mr, ABDESSELEM (Tunisia) (Translation  from the French): :  Mr, President, please excuse me for speaking  again during this debate, but I wish to move a point  of order,
22.2 It seems to us that a sufficiently wide range  of views has heen expressed for the Conference to be  informed on the various aspects of the question and  on the different problems raised by the resolution  now before it. .
22,3 We note moreover with satisfaction that all  delegates who have spoken were in agreement on at  least a certain number of points; and where they  disagree it is mainly on details. We think that, in  view of the subject of this resolution and the argu-  ments which I have already expounded in my speech,  it is not necessary, or even worth while, that the  debate should continue indefinitely.
22.4 We think then that, if delegates agree and  everyone shows goodwill in the matter, those  countries which have asked to speak and have not  done so might be satisfied with what has already been  said and thus allow us to finish. I shall accordingly  ask that we proceed immediately to the vote. I am  not making a formal motion but, if necessary, 1  would do so.
23. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish);  I call upon Dr. R. Lazo, Head of the delegation of  Cuba, to speak on the point of order which has just  been put.
24,1 Mr. LAZO (Cuba) (Translation from the  Spanish): .  Mr. President, fellow delegates, I wish to speak  only on the point of order raised by the distinguished  delegate of Tunisia, from whom we have heard an  address of some length on the question under dis-  cussion. - . : Co
24,2 There is no doubt that the General Conference  is pressed for time. However, in this discussion,  there have been a number of fundamental points on  which there has been agreement and there have also  been wide differences of opinion. It is for this last  reason and for reasons affectirig many Member States  which have not had the opportunity of speaking that I,  on behalf of the delegation of Cuba, wish to oppose  the adjournment of this discussion, .
24,3 My delegation woiild otherwise not have inter-  vened in the debate - which has in fact been a series  of controversial statements rather than a debate -
424  PLENARY MEETINGS  had the latter not been extended to take up the whole  of this morning's meeting and given rise to state-  ments of fundamental importance, I believe that  elementary respect for democratic principles - and  I assume that this cannot be described as political -  requires that the discussion should not be adjourned.  Accordingly, Mr. President and fellow delegates,  I request that representatives of those Member States  who have not had the opportunity of doing so, be  allowed to express their point of view on this item,  while bearing the time factor in mind, as they will  certainly do.  The PRFSIDENT (Translation from the Spanish);
1 call upon Mr. Stefan Wierblowsid, Head of the  delegation of Poland, to speak on the point of order.
26.1 Mr, WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) (Translation  from the Russian);  Mr, President, I have listened with great surprise  to the proposal of the distinguished representative. of  Tunisia. Here is one of the co-authors of the resolu-  tion, and suddenly this co-author wishes to cut short  the debate on thé resolution, in the drafting of which  he took an active part.
26.2 It seems to me that the question is far from  exhausted. On the list of speakers are representa-  tives of a number of Member States, I must say that  very acute questions have been raised in this dis-  cussion, and raised, incidentally, by the representa-  tive of the United Kingdom.
26.3 As reprasentative of Poland, I should like to  comment on what the Head of the United Kingdom  delegation has said here, I consider it incompatible  with the fundamental principles of democracy to gag  anybody, This method of imposing silence through  all sorts of motions for the adjournment or closure  of debates should be eliminated from the work of our  Organization, which should be guided by democratic  principles.
26.4 I therefore express, in the most categorical  manner, my opposition to the closure of the debate.
27.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I now submit the proposal to close the debate to  the meeting.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands).
27.2 The motion is rejected by 28 votes to 13, with
6 abstentions.
27.3 In view of the time, I adjourn the meeting.  The next meeting will be held at 3.30 p.m,  The meeting rose at 1,15 p.m.