23 November 1960, at 10.45 a. m,  President: Mr. Frantifek KAHUDA (Czechoslovakia)  CONTENTS  Inclusion of a new item in the agenda. . . . . . « . +... 224  General discussion of the Reports of the Director-General  (continued). . . ........  INCLUSION OF A NEW ITEM IN THE AGENDA
1.1 The PRESIDENT (Translationfromthe Russian):  The fourtéenth plenary meeting is called to order.  The General Committee of the Conference has sub-  mitted document 11 C/43 - recommending the inclu-  sion of a new item in the agenda of the General Con-  ference, This document was distributed yesterday.
1.2 At its meeting on 22 November, the General  Committee unanimously decided to recommend that  the General Conference include this item in theagen-  da of the eleventh session.
1.3 We shall now proceed to a vote by show of hands.  {The vote was taken by a show of hands)
1.4 The General Committee's recommendation is  approved by 48 votes. The item will therefore be  included in the agenda.
1.£ The General Committee also recommends that  the General Conference set up a Working Party com-  posed of the following ten Member States : Belgium,  Brazil, Denmark, France, Mexico, Pakiatan, Tunisia,  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom  and United States of America, to consider this new  item and to submit to the General Cunference such  draft resolution as it may deem appropriate. The  General Committee further recommends that all draft.  resolutions relating to this question be referred to  the Working Party.
1.6 1 do not sippose that there arc any objections  to these recommendations, Are there any objections?  No. The recommendations are adopted.  GENERAL DISCUSSION OF THE REPORTS OF  THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL (continued)
1.7 We shall now resume the debate, 1 should like  to urge speakers to do their best not to exceed the  time-limit. I now call upon the Head cf the Korean  delegation, Mr, Ki Zun Zo,
2.1 Mr. KI ZUN ZO (Korea):  Mr, President and fellow delegates, on behalf of  the Head of the delegation of the Republic of Korea,  * 224  ... vee eee. 224  Dr. Chun Suk Auh, who left Paris yesterday in  accordance with government instructions, I have the  honour to deliver his speech today. On behalf of the  Government and the people of the Republic of Korea,  my delegation wishes to express its hearty greetings  to the distinguished delegations of Member States,  particularly those of new States from Africa, and its  warmest gratitude lo the Executive Board and to the  Director-General and all his staff for their great  achievements during the past two years and for their  painstaking efforts that have enabled all of us to meet  here in order to discuss the programme and budget :  of the Organization for the coming two years. ‘
2.2 My country owes much to the United Nations,  not only for her recent recovery of independence but  for thé reconstruction and rehabilitation of her war-  torn economy. Following our success in repelling  aggression end preserving freedom, the younger  generation of Korean people rose last April, this  time against the undemocratic régime, to defend  freedom and popular sovereignty. This revolution  was brought about by the courageous sacrifice of the  Korean students, themselves products of modern  education, The isolationist policy of the former  government was completely discarded, and under  the new government the doors to new Korea are wide  open. International conventions and agreements  spongored by the Organization shall be given the  most favourable consideration and will be honoured  in due course by my Qovernment, It is with such  thoughts in mind that my delegation represents the  new republic and takes part in the discussions of the -  projects laid before this Conference.
2.3 Of the programmes proposed, my delegation  is especially interested In the project for the develop-  ment of primary education in Asla and that for the  promotion of studies and research relating to marine  sciences. In view of the tremendous amount of  thought and effort given to these projects prior to  their formal presentation at this session, I trust  that they will be given proper consideration and  deserved support throughout the course of this  meeting.
2.4 Ac for the Major Project on the Mutual  Appreciation of Eastern and Western Cultural  Values, I have the honour to announce that the   PLENARY MECTINGS  Korean National Commission has finally completed  its five-year project for the publication of the "Unesco  Korean Survey" - in both Korean and English editions  to bring Korean culture of the past and the present  much closer to the Western world. On the eve of  its departure for this session of the General Confer-  ence my delegation played a leading rdle in the  Unesco national seminar, sponsored by the National  Commission, the very first of ita kind to be held in  my country, for the pyrpose of seeking ways and  means to promote the East-West Major Project,  especially through educational, scientific and cultural  activities, With the help of the Organization and of a  number of experts in competent fields, the three-day  seminar was successful in setting the principal goals  to which diverse efforts in each important field should  be directed.
2.5 Soon after the April revolution, the Korean  Unesco Association underwent a fundamental reorgani-  zation which has, in tuen, resulted in increased  activities to expedite the construction in the capital  city of a ten-storey “Unesco House“, to be dedicated  to the ideals of international understanding through  cultural exchanges, The Association is co-operating  closely with the National Commission in implementing  various projects of an international character and it  has contibuted much to the achievements of the  National Commission by sharing a great portion of  the latter's ever increasing expenditures.
2.6 I should like to éssure you, in conclusion, that  my delegation and my Government will co-operate to  the fullest possible extent with the Organization and  the Member States assembled here.
3. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you. I now call upon the Head of the Swiss  delegation, Mr. Tschudi.
4.1 Mr. TSCHUDI (Switzerland) (Translation from  the French) :  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Swiss  delegation considers it a pleasant duty to say what a  high opinion it has of the activities reported by the  Director-General and those he proposes for 1961-1962,
4.2 .The reasons for our satisfaction and for our  confidence stem both from his detailed report and  {rom his Proposed Programme and Budget. A labour  so considerable both in quality and quantity commands  our esteem and our gratitudé,.’ An honest job of work,  conforming faithfully to the aims of Unesco’- that is  what should be chiefly stressed and praised.
4.3 It has also been a difficult task, if one bears in  mind the complexity and the growing pace of the events  occurring in the last two years. The response and  reaction of the Director-General and the Executive  Board to the new prnblems which have arisen in that  period prove that the Organization was ready to play  its part, Indeed it must have béen prepared for  some considerable time béfore.- For.the additional  activities planned or carried out in the last few  months could not have been improvised and, infact,  could never have been conceived without the exercise  of a vigilance owing as much to preparedness as to  imagination. It gives us pleasure to acknowledge that  the Unesco of 1960 succeeded, quickly and well, in  direciing its initial aid and co-operation towards the  most critical points.
4.4 It is these and other measures and the necessary  developments thereto that we shall have to examine and  approve k*-this session, without, however, neglecting  the broad lines of action arid the great continuing tasks  for which Unesco came into’ existence.
4.5 But the difficult times in which we live and the  need for realistic action compel us to cut short our  praise, which is none the less sincère for being brief.  The Director-General and thie Executive Board will,  I am sure, be grateful if we concentrate our remarks  on three or four points which call for our main  observations and suggestions.
4.6 The Member States were invitedto submit their  comments onthe Proposed Programme and Budget by
15 January 1960. These comments were published.  They have been studied by the Secretariat and the  Executive Board, It isto be hoped thatthey wére read  in other Member States. Therefore, the Swiss delega-  tion will not recapitvlate today allthe obscrvations then  presented by its Government and National Commission;  it leaves that tasktoits delegates onthe various work-  ing bodies.
4,7 However, there is a prinéiple that we should  like to state now, at the beginning of this session,  nataely that the proportion of general to other activi-  ties must be maintained at the level proposed, These  general activities spring from the fundamental {deay  on which our Constitution is based, and to reduce the  proportion would be to disown and jeopardize a labour  which can only bear fynit after a long interval, If  you have any doubt of this, it will be enough to re-  read the document entitled "Appraisal of Unesco's  Programmes“ and more particularly its conclusions.  Unesco in action would be inconceivable without  Unesco at study. And the present trend towards  acting and giving would vèry soon lose its impetus  and its value if the work of documentation, analysis  and synthesis were slowed down or neglected at the  source.’ To export men and serviées - and to pay  for them - is necessary and good. But this activity  can be of value only if it is backed by an intelligent  inventory of the resources and by the support given  to basic study and research.
4.8 In addition to the "Major Projects") - wisely  Kept at three - new events and needs will compel us  to undertake special activities of some urgency and  quite numerous in relation to our means. But to  envisage too many of these forthwith would lead us to  that digsipation of effort, the dangers of which we  have pointed out.
4,9 To this extent and with this reservation, we  approve the decision, justified by the Director-  General and the Board, to intensify our efforts on  behalf of education ant scientific research. ;
4,10 But - and I say this quite frankly - we are  less concerned with the Unesco programme for the  next two years than with certain problema connected  with the way our Organization works. ‘In other  words, we believe that the plans, clearly set out on  paper, will, in fact,be worth only what the body  responsible for their execution can get out of them.  The higher budget ceiling which we wére glad to see  adopted, will be justified only if the programme is"  rationally applied. Can this happen with the present  mode of working? Intruth, wé feel that therels room  for improvement in thé way the Organization functions.
4.11 Let us begin by considering ‘what the   Xv PLENARY MEETINGS  Director-General and the Secretariat have to do,  before turning our attention to the Executive Board.
4.12 Under the present system, the Director- |  General and his colleagues have to apply their minda  and energies, and apply them simultaneously, to  three distinct operations: the execution and super-  vision of earlier programmes ; the implementation  of the new programme, and the conception and plan-  ning of programmes for the future. These three  operations are complementary, and therefore in-  separable. In practice, they impinge on, intermingle  with and sometimes prejudice each other. .
4.13 During the early months of the year following  a session of the General Conference, the Secretariat  makes a considerable effort, and at great speed, in  order to "bring out" the next two-year programme  in the summer, Then the "shuttle system'' starts with  the preliminary draft golng first to the Executive  Board, then to Member States, then back to the Board,  and, then, at last - but at a very late stage - in pre-  sumably "final" form to Member States again and  back once more to the Board.
4.14 As a result, this programme is constantly  being recast, and its figures frequently changed,  by means of "addenda" and "corrigenda"-during the
18 months prior to its consideration and adoption by  the General Conference. As a consequence of all  this coming and going, too often the alterations get  the better of the original plan and the subsequent or  secondary operations assume more importance than  the first and principal operation,
4.15 To remedy this, would it not be possible and  preferable to consider a different time-table? An  attempt might be made, for example, to draw up a  four-year programme in less haste and in less pre-  carious conditions. This would mean taking a longer  view, an idea suggested by the "’Apprainal"" document.  This longer-term programme would be BU ced before  the General Conference every four years. “and would  cover four years; it would be discussed 0 what  might be called a "major" session,  - 4.16 In the intervening years, the Conteres: we  would nevertheless continue to meet every two years,  as at present, in order to keep an ey/s on the applica-  tion of the programme and, if circumstances so re-  quired, to introduce amendments. The intermediate  session - which would not be a "minor" one - might  be shorter than the present sessions, Member  States would be represented by smaller delegations,  which would mean a considerable saving. Such an  alternation would, however, permit us still to meet  biennially, thus preserving the present opportunity  for contact between States and with the Secretariat,  to which, for so many good reasons, we are firmly  attached.
4.17 Here is another observation, also related to  the functioning of our agency. The Director-General  proposes some increases in staff, which he justifies  with sound arguments, We certainly understand that  hie office and the staff of the busiest departmenta  require reinforcemert, both in quality and quantity.  Until now, our first reaction was to reject on princi-  ple any increase in so-called "administrative" ex-  penditure, as opposed to s0- .called "constructive"  expenditure on the programme, But is such opposi-  tion always valid? We may be permitted to doubt it.  When one considers the importance and urgency of
226  some of the new tasks entrusted to Uneaco, for  example in Africa, it seems increasingly arbitrary  to draw a clear distinction between the planning office  and the field of action, between the general staff and  the front, the missions for which certain collaborators  are needed sometimes here and sometimes there,  between operation and administration,
4.18 It is also difficult to entrust these tasks,  partly new and always difficult, to a staff that is often  overworked and of insufficiently high grade. Just  imagine, for example, what valuable assistance could  be afforded in education by a group of senior officials  with the experience, the scope and the authority of  inspectors-general! But where can such assistance  be found? How are we to attract such people, and  select, retain and - of course - pay them? This isa  problem going beyond the scope of my remarks and  one which cannot be fully solved at the present stage.
4.19 The Swiss delegation will limit its remarks  here to enunciating the principle that an increase in  the number and quality of collaborators, principally  for the great tasks of education and scientific research  seems sound and worthy of approval. By this, itdoes  not mean that such new assistance should necessarily  be sought outside the House, It considers that the  Secretariat already has on its staff men of wide ex-  perience, whose services might be rewarded by  deserved promotion.
4.20 We know that, to a large extent, the Executive  Board appreciates the heavy and complex task falling  upon the Secretariat, The Director-General has paid  tribute to the invaluable support he has been given by  the Board. What is the latter's task? Our Constitu-  tion has defined it as follows : to prepare the agenda  for the General Conference; to examine the pro-  gramme of work for the Organization and the corres-  ponding budget estimates, and to submit them to the  General Conference, Under the authority of the latter,  the Board is responsible for the execution of the pro-  gramme adopted, Examination, supervision, res-  ponsiblility : these are the essential characteristics  of the task devolving upon the 24 wise men who sit  on the Executive Board.
4.21 We know the cost of one hour's work by the  Board in plenary meeting, with simultaneous inter-  pretation in four languages and with minutes It is  more difficult to calculate the cost of the work  demanded by this hour, both beforehand and after-  wards, from the members of the Secretariat.
4,22 . When we recapitulate thé number of days  during which the Board was in session in 1958  (Conference year), in 1959 (no Conference) aad in
1960 (Conference year, in which the current sessior  of the Board is not yet over), we find, fortunately,  that there has been some reduction, But, at the  cost of so much time, effort and éxpense, could not  the Board render the Organization even more valuable  services? This, I think, is the fundamental question.  Do not misunderstand me: we have no intention of  levelling the slightest criticism at the Chairman of  the Executive Board. Quite the opposite: attention,  vigilance, impartiality, self-control, courtesy - he  possesses all these qualities, not forgetting that  sense of humour which relieves the atmosphere in  moments of strain. .
4,23 But the Board, which counts among its mem-  bers 80 many alert and distinguished minds, already   PLENARY  has certain traditions ... and nothing {e more tena-  cious than tradition, even, and perhaps above all, in  young institutions,
4,24 Why do so many speakers rise or rise again,  to support and, all too often, to repeat what others  have already said before them? Why "present" at  length this or that committee's or working party's  report, when we all have the report in front of us,  duplicated in four languages, and when the committee  or working party has been set up for the very pur-  pose of lightening our task? Why, at meetings, ask  questions of the Director-General or the Secretariat  which might easily be answered in a private conver-  sation, between the Board member concerned and a  member of the Secretariat? Why, finally, and again  at meetings, make complacent statements about so  many activities of purely national or regional inter-  est? Let us have the courage to say that this pro-  cedure is somewhat archaic in 1960, in an organiza-  tion cnly 15 years old...
4.26 It also happens that, when it ts wearled by a  long-drawn-out discussion or misled by its apparent  unimportance, the Board - suddenly, as if by chance  or accident - takes up a fundamental problem. We had  an example of this during the final session of 1959,  when the - alas deceptive - prospects of a relaxation  of international tension led the Board to ask itself how,  if those prospeèts were realized, Unesco might use  the sums becoming available through the reduction of  expenditure on armaments. The ensuing discussion,  though it was hurried and by no means exhaustive,  nevertheless gave a measure of the opinions and of  the resources of imagination, realism and wisdom  which are the mark and the pride of our "Executive".  The Board itself seemed mildly and agreeably sur-  prised by this .., But, on the day in question, the  agenda was so heavy that it quickly passed on to  another item.
4.26 It is primarily the Board's responsibility to  revise and rationalize its working methods and iis  time-table. At the opening meeting we were glad  to learn that such a reform had been suggested by  the Chairman of the Executive Board himself ; that  augurs well. We shall therefore confine ourselves  here to recommending that the study of such areform  - from which we may hope for a saving of both time  and money - take first place in the Board's time-table  at its first session in 1961,
4.27 A further suggestion: in addition to the re-  gular public meetings, it wculd be desirable for the  Board to resume those freé discussions which it held  between 1952 and 1954 and which gave it the oppor-  tunity of considering - without documents, ‘minutes  or papers ‘of any kind - somé of the ‘essential prob-  lems with which Unésco has to-déal and which should  govern the direction of its future programmes.
4.28 If it thus reassessed the value of its own  work, the Board would be, at once, more inclined,  and obliged, to deal rapidly with purely administra-  tive or procedural questions, treating them as ac-  cessory. Instead of all too often giving the impres-  sion of a discussion between ' "managers" A It would  restore to its members the nobler rôle of "counsel-  lors" which their membership of the Board should  lay upon them.
4.26 Finally, it is probable that a four-year pro-  gramme, on the lines": /ndicated a few moments ago,  MESTINOS XIV  would 8.111 further promote the already very satis-  factory collaboration between the Director-General  un. the Board, and lead to sounder organization and  greater economy in their joint labours,
4.30 However, while we admit the need for thus  improving the way in which Unesco works, our main  interest is in the apirit in which its activities are  conceived and carried out.
4,31 Since our last meeting two years ago, mutual  trust is on the decline throughout the world ; mistrust  or positive distrust are becoming moré evident and  increasingly frequent in an ever-growing number of  places, Indeed this is putting it mildly and I am  deliberately resorting to measured understatement  here rather than give a vast dramatic picture of the  cold war going on around us,
4.32 If we were to listen to our National Commis-  sions - consisting, by definition, of individuals all  devoted to the Unesco ideal, specialized, naturally,  but at the same time most attentive to the general  trend of events - they would tell us of their concern  at the danger they sense in the increasingly political  tone of our debates, Discussion becomes political in  the worst sense of the term when, in the context of  Unesco, the policy of a State or a group of Stat s is  no longer a means of action but an end in itself, when  attempts are made to mobilize the sources and re-  sources of an international agency to further a  particular political policy and when the arguments in  support, the strained or distorted meanings of words,  give discussion a polemical and sometimes demagogic  tone contrary to the ideal expressed in our Constitu-  tion.
4,33 Would it not be possible for Unesco to show that,  in its own sphere, the differences and oppositions  embodied in the various "isms" are only of minor  importance as compared with the activities ‘our  Organization is conducting In space and time? Indeed,  has it not already given an outstanding, example this  year by undertaking the task of saving the Nubian  monuments, by rapidly drawing up its plan and  marshalling its initial resources? And could we not,  in the same spirit, do something else and even more?
4.34 In addition to its intérgovernmental confer-  ences, Unesco has already held and organized educa-  tional, cultural, scientific and technical gatherings,  working meetings which have had most significant  results. It will have other opportunities of the same  kind in the future. But would not such meetings have  an even greater impact if thé individuals invited to  participate could do so not so much as the repre-  sentatives of different countries as for the sake of  their professional qualifications.
4.35 One condition, however, should be clearly  stiprizted, It is the counterpart of the foregoing and  of vital importance. This condition ie-that, whether  they be nationals of Member States of the Organiza-  tion or not, the individuals concerned formally under-  take to abstain from; any political propaganda at such  méztings,' Is this possible? In theory, yes. But  only experience can show if it is so in practice,
4,36 It would therefore bé no more nor less than  an experiment that we would make, and a more  realistic one than might appear at first sight. Its  primary object would be to increase the professional  efficlency of these working meetings by widening  their scope. Secondly, it would tend to show that
227   xav PLENARY MEETINGS  the great international specialized agencies - without,  naturally, ignoring the political situation - have found  a sphere in which to work free of exterñal instruc-  tions, constraint and political passions. If this ex-  periment were to succeed, it would mark a significant  etep forward on the road to peaceful co-operation and  a tremendous advance towards that universality  towards which the international organizations are  tending or aspiring at.least in principle.
4,37 Is this the opportune moment to consider such  an experiment, at the end of a year when the horizon  is obscured by so many dark clouds? Would it be  advisable to wait for a sunnier sky? History shows  that it is often during the most threatening periods  that innovators haye worked wonders. This is not  only true for individual effort. Could not scientists  and techniclans from all over the world, in their own  spheres of competence, co-operate in exchanging  knowledge, in constructive tasks? And is it not pre-  cisely during our era that they should be urged to do  so, in spite of tension, in spite of the wold war?
4.38 Who can offer thom the opportunity, the field  of action, the tcols and methods, !f not Unesco? Its  field of activity is vast, but clearly defined. All its  educational, scientific and cultural activities have  peaceful aime, But is {t not the primary condition  for the achlevement of those aims to reject the  celebrated formula of "politics first" and leave  politics ta the professionals?
4.39 Our governmenta would appreciate - at least  we may be permitted to hope so - our adopting this  attitude instead of our bringing into our sphere and  repeating here the arguments they have already used  at their political gatherings. Would they not then  rely on Unesco to progress along the road of what  one might call "depolitization" - which was its original  policy - within the framework of the United Nations ?
4.40 Certainly, all our Member States are more  or less involved in some forma of regional activity  and mutual aid. Many of them feel a more immediate  solidarity with their neighbours to whom they are  linked by a common language or culture. This  solidarity is natural and right. I am not suggesting  that it should be repudiated, but that this vast  gathering arranged by our Organization should be  put to good use by exploring fields and selecting  cases in which at least once, at last once in history,  everyone will participate in some truly universal  work of co-operation, Goodwill is not enough. Pro-  fessional qualification is the inspiration and guiding  force of auch a venture.
4.41 The Swiss delegation has not submitted its  draft resolution on this item and does not intend  doing so at this session. But it would be happy if  Member States, the Director-General and the Execu-  tive Board would conaider this question now brought  to their notice. .
4.42 Mr, Président, ladies and gentlemen, 1 should  like to conclude with a thought for our hosts. A thought  of gratitude, of course, a thought derived less from  custom and politeness than from refléction and feeling.
4,43 Switzerland is glad that the Conference is  meeting in France, the country where, on the inter-  national level, the idea and practice of what are  known as "cultural relations" first saw the light. In  three centres, the Qual d'Orsay, rue de Grenelle and  the rue de Valois, the same will to exchange, the  same spirit of international solidarity are working to  spread French culture and science abroad and at the  same time to attract to France works and men repre-  sentative of foreign culture and science.
4,44 It therefore seems to us a very good augury  that the general debate included on our agenda, the  debate on international exchanges, is taking place  here, in a conference meeting in Paris and enjoying,  yet again, the generous hospitality of our French  friends.
5. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  I now call upon the Head of the Tunisian delegation,  Mr, Messadi.
6.1 Mr. MESSADI (Tunisia) (Translation from the  French) :  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, on the  occasion of a debate such as the one in which we are  now engaged, the Tunisian delegation believes that  the very least it can do to pay tribute to Unesco, to  the magnificent work it is performing throughout the  world, to the spirit of fruitful co-operation which  governs the relationships between its directive and  executive organs, and to the untiring devotion of its  Director-General and Secretariat, is to try and place  our discussions on the very high plane of the ideals  and aims of the Organization itself, in other words,  on the level of the major concerns of a human com-  munity increasingly unied and yet increasingly uneasy.
6.2 By a sort of paradox, which is very much in  the nature of human affairs, it {s, in fact, under the  dual and contradictory sign of a certain anxiety - of  a certain anguish, indeed - and ai the same time of a  certain optimism and resurgent hope that this  eleventh session of the General Conference of Unesco  has been proceeding ever since the opening meeting.
6.3 The General Conference has greeted with  unalloyed joy the recent accession to independence of  a large number of African countries, pod has hastened  to welcome them as members of the C /ganization.  My delegation, in its turn, is particularly happy to  give these brother countries its cordial welcome,  coupled with its heartfelt wishes for the fulfilment  of the hopes and high promise of their regained  freedom. Our General Conference has found right-  ful cause, in this massive accession of countries to  independence and international responsibility, for  renewed hope in a world of Increasing freedom,  increasing fraternity and increasing interdependence  in the peaceful tasks and mutual service of education,  science and culture.
6.4 And yet there is a sense of uneasiness, and  cause for uneasiness, Surely no one can deny this,  no clear-sighted nation can blink the fact or wave it  aside. FE
6.5 Having barely emerged from the nameless  horrors of the last world war, mankind, in a mag-  nificent surge of solidarity, sought only one object:  to erect, against any possible repetition of war, the  powerful bulwark of thé United Nations and its  Specialized Agencies, dedicated one and all. to the  defence of peace, to safeguarding human rights and  to the social, economic, scientific and cultural  advancement of all peoples. History will one day  tell, certainly better than we can, of the tremendous  services rendered by the United Nations, and its   «. PLENARY  Specialized Agencies to the cause of peace, freedom  and human progress during these past few years,
6.6 But with so much to take pride In, mankind is  still disquieted. For has not science - that very  science to whose service the United Nations dedi-  cated Unesco, and which the latter is serving so  zealously - succeeded In taming the mighty energy  of the atom, thus placing in the hands of man, the  eternal sorcerer's apprentice, cosmic forces so  powerful that their release could wipe out the whole  of civilization? In these circumstances, who would  dare close his eyes to the mortal danger concealed  in that hypocrisy known as the "cold war", which  continues to set one part of the world against the other,  and whose echoes penetrate, alas, into this very  building and inflame some of our discussions? Other  voices, preceding mine, have been raised here to  ask whether we are doing enough to ensure the  triumph of Unesco's ideals and the full achievement  of its objectives. But one of the basic aims of our  Organization proclaimed in the Constitution, surely,  is that "it is in the minds of men that the defences  of peace must be constructed", Our Director-  General forcibly recalls this fact when he states, in  document 11 C/9 on the assessment of the work  carried out by the Organization , that "Unesco is  and must remain what its founders intended it to be  - an instrument for the promotion of world peace",  Is it not the first duly of us all therefore, to temper  the impassioned accents of the so-called "cold war"  and to show, at any rate in our discussions, that  peace, a measure of appeasement, reigns in our  minds and in our hearts?
6.7 If all partisan passion were thus banned from our  work, if the serenity matchingthe greatness of its ob-  jectives prevailed at our proceedings, we should very  soon realize thatin substance we are very often in  agreement, Itis certainly not for usto "politicize"  Unesco's activity - using the termin its pejorative  and inflammatory sense - nor to transform this splendid  organization into a new platform for the cold war, But  neither is it for us to “de-politicize" ite activity to  such a degree asto manifest a sort of reluctance to  raise the question of disarmament as it affects  Unesco's work or to tackle the problem of decoloniza-  tion with such hesitant timidity,
6.8 It is certainly reassuring to see Unesco suc-  ceed in arousing u fine effort of international soli-  darity for the purpose of safeguarding the magnificent  treasures of Nubia, threatened by flooding. But is it  not at least as fine a thing, is it not more essential,  more vital, that it should at the same time work  more intensively to build, in the minds of men, the  impregnable defences of peace, to eradicate hate and  the causes of conflict and war from their hearts, to  put an end to the dogma of the inequality of races and  peoples, to accelerate the beneficent process of decolo-  nization and thus speedthetime when all the forces and  all the material and moral resources of mankind will be  exclusively devotedtothe peaceful and continuous devel-  opment of civilization instead of to oppression and war?
6.8 It is such action which would give Unesco's  work its true stature and place it on the level of  world destiny; it ts this approach, we feel, which  should constantly inspire its plans. While there can  be no question, I repeat, of "politicizing" Unesco's  activities in the bad sense of the word, let us beware,
229  MEETINGS XIV  nevertheless, in face of the deep concern of s0 many  peoples who are fearful that others more powerful  and less prudent than themselves may lead the world  to war and annihilation, of peoples still subject to  the blood and iron rule of a colonial syatem which  prevents the free flowering of their rich human  potential - let us beware, in face of such concern,  lest the particular importance attached, say, to the  means of making museums accessible to all appear  perhaps to be in some way rather ridiculous.
6.10 This point having been made, my delegation'a  pleasure is all the greater in expressing its satisfac-  tion as regards the correctness of the general direc-  tion taken, after all, by the Conference's discussions  and the pertinence of the Proposed Programme and  Budget submitted for its consideration,
6.11 , The General Conference has just taken the  correct and wise decision to include on its agenda,  in the light of the decision taken by the United Nations,  an item relating to Unesco's rôle and contribution in  connexion with the accession of colonized countries  and peoples to independence. -It has already voted in  favour of raising the Organization's budget ceiling,  and its proposed programme of activities for the  two coming years gives a fairly important place to  educational and teaching programmes in Tropical  Africa, Asia and the Arab countries, On all these  points, my delegation expresses its complete support  for the policy adopted by Unesco, For it all shows  Unesco to be acting as a dynamic organization sen-  sitive to the march of history, and is of particular  significance at a time when a number of African  countries have just achieved their independence,  when others, still struggling, appear likely to  achieve it soon, when the United Nations and our  own Organization are exploring means of hastening  the development of the historical process of decoloni-  zation, and when the United Nations Economic and  Social Council goes on record as stating "that the  emergence of newly independent States ... calls  urgently for additional international assistance of  all kinds to help them in their endeavours to reap  the benefits and assume the responsibilities of  independence and to attain rapid economic and social  advancement in conditions of stability", Our Director-  General, a faithful and devoted servant of interna-  tional solidarity, restated this most aptly by deciar-  ing, in presenting hie Proposed Programme and  Budget: "Is it not the duty of the international com-  munity, using every means at its disposal, to help  these States henceforth to forge their own destiny?"
6.12 Freely to forge their destiny, that, in fact, is  the primary question for these young States. And if,  for aid in this task, they naturally turn to the inter-  national community, and especially to Unesco, let  us say quite frankly that it would be not a little insult-  ing and unjust to believe that their actfon in doing so  entails nothing more for the international organiza-  tions than increased responsibilities and increased  expenditure, There is perhaps too great a tendency  to stress only these two factors, Insufficient streas  is laid, on the contrary, on the positive contribution  by these peoples, on the fact that their presence  enriches, strengti.ens and fosters the activities of  the international organizations. In joining Unesco,  these new States come to us not merely with the sum  total of their vast needs and massive requests for aid   XIV  and assistance. They also bring with them all the  traditions of civilization and culturé that they repre-  sent, all their youthful and unshackled energy, all  their human potential so long confined and at last set  free, all their will to serve, in new-found peace,  freedom and friendship, the sacred cause of educa-  tion, science and culture, Many examples of what  these young States just emergent in international life  would be capable of achieving, may already be found  in the work done by those of them which already have  some years of independence behind them. 'I should  like, if I may, to quotebut one example better known  to me than others - that of my own country, which  became independent only four-and-a-half years ago.
6.13 Ever since 1958, Tunisia, in its desire to  ensure more rapid human progress through educa-  tion, science and culture, has steadily increased  its efforts in that direction,
6.14 In its budgets, heavily burdened though they  were on account of the urgent need for economic  investment and equipment, the proportion set aside  for education rose from 17% in 1958 to 18% in 1959  and to 19% in 1960, and is to be further increased in
6.15 The number of children attending school in
1955-1956 - the year of our independence - amounted  to no more than 250,000 out of a total of 820,000  children of school age. The number of children  receiving schooling this year is 450,000. . .
6.16 This progress has been rendered possible by  an overall plan for education programmes drawn up  by the Government of President Bourguiba and applied  since 1958. The results of the first two years of this  ten-year plan show that the targets had been reached  and even slightly bettered.’ My Government is now  quite certain, therefore, that at the end of the ten-  year period - in 8 years! time, that is - not a single  child of school dge in Tunisia will be deprived of  education, Naturally, the Tunisian Government's  education plan has-glven rise to many problems  needing careful study. Since these problems are  similar in nature to those in the other developing  countries of Africa and the Near East, we were  happy, during the conference held in Beirut last  February for the purpose of assessing the needs of  the Arab States in educalion, to inform Unesco -  and I repeat this here without false pride - that we  placed at its disposal all the éxperience our country  had acquired in planning education programmes. We  hope to be given the opportunity very soon of making  a similar contribution in connexion with the project  to establish a centre for training senior educational  personnel in the Arab countries.
6.17 I might also mention that Tunisia has taken  particular care, in the overall plan prepared, to  strike the fairest possible balance between the  utilitarian desire to train the technical and non-  technical personnel required by a country in process  of rapid development and the disinterested concern  A  -for scientific research, the advancement of know-  ledge and the development of culture to the highest  levél. Since the last school year, the University of  Tunis has come into being. As successor to the  former "Institut des hautes’ études de Tunis" .  fostered over many years by the magnanimous  efforts of the celebrated University of Paris and  whose pioneering work the new institution !s
230  PLENARY MEETINGS  to continue and develop, the University of Tunis has  been conceived and organized as a fraternal and  harmonious group of traditional faculties, higher  technical institutes and centres for pure and applied  research, By sending us a consulting architect,  Unesco gave us tangible proof of its desire to help  forward the completion of the proposed university  buildings, and the Tunisian delegation would like to  express its deep appreciation from this rostrum  accordingly.
6.18 Mr. President and fellow delegates, I should  now like to outline briefly my delegation's viewpoint  on certain other aspects of the direction and pro-  gramme of Unesco's activities,
6.19 In the first place, the Tunisian delegation  would like to express its great satisfaction at the  fact that a principle to which it has always held has  now become apparent to ua all namely, that unless  accompanied and backed by economic assistance,  technical assistance is likely to remain without real  content or practical significence, What would be the  use, for example, of studies and experts, of im- -  pressive educational programmes; if the countries  concerned were, unable, after all, to find any means  of financing them? The fact that it has at last been  recognized that education is a vital factor for eco-  nomic and social development, and that the Interna-  tional Development Association has recently been  founded in consequence, should be hailed as an im-  portant step forward in furtherance of the work of  Unesco and its Member States.
6.20 Of the three Major Projects now in progress,  that dealing with scientific research on arid lands  has aroused great interest in my country ever since  its initiation. Its value on the plane of pure research,  indeed, is obvious; while it also demonstrates that  Unesco, far from indulging in sterile academic  activity, is capable of establishing the necessary  relationship and connexion between problems of pure  science and those of applied research designed to  bring about improvements of various kinds in the  material condittons of human life. Tunisia is there-  fore contributing fully and unreservedly towards  the execntion of this project. On the internal level,  firstly, the attention of the competent authorities has  been focused on the urgency and importance of the  problem, national study and ection machinery has been  set in motion, and a National Committee for Arid  Lands has been formed comprising all the technical  officials concerned and providing the necessary  framework for co-ordinating their activities. In  Tunisia, for example, there aré at least three  institutions conducting active research on subjects  connected with arid land problems - the Botanical  and Agronomical Service, which studies the influence  of salt water on plants; the Water Centre, which  studies the influence of water and soil salinity on  plant respiration; and the Pedological Research  Section which studies the pedological evolution of  land irrigated with salt water and the latter's effect  on the soil-plant complex.
6.21 These studies have yielded important data  which place Tunisia among the countries best in-  formed on these problems. My country is ready to  make available to the international community,  within the framework of the activities undertaken  by Unesco in this field, the full results of its   PLENARY MEETINGS XIV  theoretical research and outdoor experimental work  in several areas specially selected for that purpose.
6.22 I should also refer here to the highly success-  ful reglonal course on soil salinity organized by  Unesco in Tunisia in September 1959 and attended by  the experts from the Mediterranean and Middle  Eastern countries, Then again, in agreement with  Unesco and with the help of Technical Assistance,  we have founded two research laboratories in Tunis  to deal with soll physics and plant physiology.
6.23 My delegation strongly hopes that all these  favourable conditions will make it possible, in co-  operation with Unesco and with the help of the United  Nations! Special Fund, to set up a Regional Centre  in Tunisla in the near future to study practical prob-  lems of salinity; its beneficent work could have  repercussions in all the couniries of the arid zone,  where millions of people are looking to science to  help them to wrest more food and means of subsiat-  ence from a hostile nature.
6.24 In this connexion, my delegation can only  express its satisfaction with the plans proposed by  the Director-General to ensure the continuation and  ever intensification of Unesco's activities in thig  field, to give this research work a more practical  turn, and to pass from the form of a Major Project  to a new form of organization which will give the  work being done a permanent and regular character.
6.25 With the regard to the Major Project on the  Mutual Appreciation of Eastern and. Western Cultural  Values, the Tunisian delegation would like to state,  as it did at the tenth session of the General Confer-  ence, that it resolutely supports this project and  intends to contribute actively towards its implementa-  tion. One action has felt impelled to criticize  this Major Project here, However, if its execution  has failed to take the form of a large series of studies,  of academic mcetings or of mary-slded scientific  research, it is perhaps because these are not the  essential tasks to be performed. To our minds, it  is no more possible on the level of Eastern and  Western cultural values than on the political level,  where East and West continue to confront each other  and to counterpose their contradictory attitudes with-  out being able to rise superior to their respective  positions and so provide the condition for the peace-  ful co-existence of all nations, for mutual apprecia-  tion alone, however noble in concept and whatever  its concrete form, to suffice, or perhaps even to be  effective. Counterposition, albeit appreciative,  entails too great a risk of accentuating differences, of  underscoring the original trait which distinguishes  and separates, It might well be asked, perhaps,  whether the execution of a major project of this kind  does not require the use of other means in addition to  those envisaged until now in order to achieve its  objectives. Tunisia for its part has already con-  sidered using - and has used, in fact - other means.  Traditionally a host country anda land of integration,  lapped by the waters of the Mediterranean, that sea  which has seen the upsurge of human genius from  the time of Ancient Greece and on whose shores  that genius has continued to expand throughout the  ages, Tunisia holds that the subtlest essence of  humanity is to be found in the sense of universality.  In the realm of cultural values, therefore it has  chosen to bring together, reinvent and reincarnate
231  rather than content itself with comparing and ap-  preciating in a purely external fashion, For it is  by the radical appropriation of thé permanent values  of all cultures, whether Eastern or Western, that  this rapprochement should be effected and that true  humanism can be maintained, It ie for this reason  that the educational system of independent Tunisia  proceeds from the principle that it is in the crucible  of the human conscience, in the most profound re-  cesses of the human mind, that the alloying of  Eastern and Western cultural values to produce a  new metal shou c take place,
6.26 In Tunisia; right from the schoolroom the  same love and respect unite, in the minds and hearts  of children, the names of Plato or Descartes and  al-Ghazali, of Averroes and ibn-Khaldun, of Goethe,  Tolstoy or Racine and al-Mutanabbi or al-Djahiz,  What a reassurance it would be for the future of °  international co-operation and the mutual enrichment  of education and culture if Tunisia's example in this  respect were soon to be matched by that of only'a  single western country, thus marking the dawn of an  era in which the nations would have risen above  selfish individualism and narrow nationalism in  cultural life! For while certain key benefits for  world peace and international understanding are to  be expected from mutual appreciation of Eastern  and Western cultural values, we also consider that  perhaps every form of humanism and culture is pri-  marily a tireless quest by man, a perpetual striving,  an endless overtaking of all that has happened, and  - whatever civilization may bring - an indefinite  straining towards that whi :h must finally harmonize  man with himself and his destiny,
6.27 It is in serving these ideals that the interna-  tional organizations with which mankind has equipped  itself find their supreme justification, My country,  which has pledged its strong faith in the United  Nations and the Specialized Agencies and contributes  to them unstintingly considers - and, it believes,  with reason - that despite our idle disputes, our  sterile quarrels and our sometimes byzantine dis-  cussions, it is within these organizations that we are  most keenly conscious of the solidarity of our fate,  that itisin them that mankind, after all, finds the  safest refuge from its own folly and the most valid  justification for its invincible hope for a better world.  ?, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr. Messadi. I now call upon the  Head of the delegation of Guinea, Mr, Sanguiana.
8.1 Mr. SANGUIANA (Guinea) (Translation from  the French) :  Mr. President, fellow delegates, ladles and  gentlemen, the Republic of Guinea, through the  mouth of {ts delegation, would like to assure the  Conference of its deep regret at the twofold loss  that deprives us of the co-operation of two distin-  guished meinbers, whose absence from our midst  is so sorely felt.
8.2 The eleventh session of the General Confer-  ence of Unesco offers an opportunity to the delega-  tion of the Republic of Guinea to voice its thanks and  appreciation at being admitted to the Organization.  Our country became a Member State of Unesco in  February 1960; and it is our intention in that   xv PLENARY  capacity, to make our modest contribution to the  construction of a better world - our ultimate and  basic objective - on the basis of friendship and  mutuel co-operation,
8.3 The Republic of Guinea has been anxious ever  since achieving independence to take part in Unesco's  great.work of solidarity and human emancipation. The  fact that our participation in Unesco's activities has  not so far been as effective as we would have wished  is due to the host of national and international obliga-  tions with which we were faced all at once directly  we became independent. We cannot but pay tribute  to the directorial and Secretariat staff of Unesco  who at every level have willingly and devotedly given  us their expert assistance. What makes us feel even  more at home in this gathering is the fact that the  principles of Unesco essentially coincide with those  of the Guinean revolution,
8.4 One of the great principles of our people,  recently emanciped from the colonial yoke - it is  enunciated, incidentally, in our national motto - is  that of solidarity. In the past, our only links with  the ouiside world were based on exploitation, oppres-  sion and dependence, The only picture we were able  to have of the outside world was one of oppressive  colonialism, We were only able to know about other  countries what it suited their purposes to tell us -  in other words, very little.
8.5 Independence enabled us to emerge from the  isolation in which we had been arbitrarily confined,  and to throw our windows wide open to the outside  world. In place of the principle of dependence in  our relations with the exterior, we have substituted  that of solidarity - the same principle on which the  great international organizations such as Unesco  are founded, For us, such constructive solidarity  is a principle of internal action, a force which  has enabled us, in the context of foreign occupation,  with its train ‘of pressures and threats, to express  an Almost unanimous ho” on 28 September 1958  " to slavery, "no" to the perpetuation of  colontalfem in another guise, a ' " which never-  “ theless had a positive sense for u meant "yes" to  freedom and to international ‘botherhood,
8.6 This solidarity, which unites all Guineans and  which also unites us to all our African brothers and  to all the nations of the world aspiring to freedom,  has enabled us to resist all attempts at reconquest  by every means from economic blockade to armed  plots tomented beyond our frontiers.’ .
8.7 This solidarity, extended to all peoples. of the  world, is the bedrock of all the !nternational organi-  zations which; like Unesco, seek to serve hyman  progress, Any activity or any move designed to «  call this principle of solidarity into question, to.  replace it by the supremacy of one nation or a group  of nations over others, endangers the very existence  of the international organizations. Conversely, the  spread of the spirit of solidarity strengthens and  invigorates ‘them, . In this respect, the accession to  independence of a large number of African countries  and their admission to international organizations  like ours helps to give those organizations greater  vigour and | greater authority. ;
8.8 There ls no question but that the awakening of  Africa, so long kept in the darkness of slavery, has a  “ deeper significance here than in any other organization.  \ 232  MEETINGS
8,9 It 1e in the sphere of the human mind, indeed,  that exploitation, servitude and poverty, those  features of colonialism which produce such hateful  materiel consequences, have had their worst effects.  And the most abject result of colonialism, surely,  has been the systematic degradation of man, To  destroy man's sense of dignity and the consciousness  of intellectual originality, to snuff out his creative  urge, to deprive him of any impulse to better himself  - these were the objectives of colonlalism, in Africa  and elsewhere, for nearly a century. For well nigh  a century, only the spiritual values of the colonizing  peoples were recognized as valid, Those of the  colonized peoples were denied, ignored or misre-  presented as barbarian, obviously implying the ab-  sence of any distinguishing trace of civilization. The  very small number of our children privileged to  attend the schools of the colonlalists learned the  latters' history and were given scarcely anything  more than a rudimentary idea.of the history of their  own country, and of Africa. All the Africans who  had dared to raise the standard of resistance such -  as El Hadj Omar, Samory, Behanzin, Rabah and  Abdel Kader, were indiscriminately treated as  barbarians, as cruel and bloody chieftains, while  the conquerors, on the other hand, had full claim  to the aura of civilizing sanctity.
8.10 It was hoped, In this way, to deprive men of  their individuality to convince them of their own in-  competence and of their inferiority to the master-  race of conquerors. Thus did Africa, alas, become  the victim of that raciallam which our Organization  had done so well to denounce in forthright terms,
8.11 Today, the awakening of the African peoples  is making the public at large and world conscience  aware of the past importance of the great African  empires of the Middle Ages. The mighty revolution  now shaking the foundations of the old world is bring-  ing the Black Continent to a period of renascence,  and today people are acutely interested in those great  empires of Ghana, Mali, Gao and the rest. ;
8.12 It is historically undeniable that Africa in the  Fifteenth century had the same opportunities of ma-  terial, intellectual and spiritual development as the  other continents. But colonization and the slave trade  brought our hopeful continent to stagnation and ruin,  drained it of its living forces and transformed itintoa  scene of tragic man-hunts.
8.13 Simultaneously with the smothering of our  civilizations, the most reactionary racialist theories  were formulated to justify the slave trade, with a  prolific body of indigestible literature to back them.  The emergence of original civilizations which had been  proceeding prior tothe disastrous advent of the alave-  trade was abruptly stopped leaving them without any  possibility of further development. It ig here that the  destructive and hypocritical nature of the so-called  " civilizing mission” of the colonialists is apparent,
8.14 At the same time as it was claimed that  Africa had no history - or in any case no written  history - the tarikhs written in Arabic, Peulh or  Hausa were being destroyed or scattered by the  ignorant armies of the colonizers. At best, they  were sent to the specialized libraries of the colonial  powers, where some of them still lie buried in dust.  The archives of the chancelleries of Samory or  Behanzin, on the other hand, were destroyed.   PLENARY MEETINGS
8.15 Yet explorers in our country at the beginning  of the Fifteenth century noted that there was no village  without a school, whether in the Fouta Djallon region  or in Lower Gulnea, True, the education given,  based on the study of Arabic through the medium of  the Koran and a few theological works, was not a  modern one, but it had its value and was not limited  to the mechanical repetition of verses in an unknown  language. Even round about 1910, an Algerian ’  inspector sent to Guinea by the French government  observed with amazement that in humble villages in  Lower Guinea there were "karamoko" (schoolmasters)  capable of carrying on a fluent conversation in  literary Arabic.
8.16 All this traditional body of learning was -  systematically consigned to destruction or decay by  the colonial régime which in most cases put nothing  in its place, Only a handful of privileged persons  were able to obtain access to the colonizers' schools,  whose main concern was to train subordinate em-  ployees in the service of colonialism. Even as  late as 1945 more than 95% of Guineans were  illiterate.
8.17 A few European experts and even - from  snobbish motives - a wider public did, indeed, round  about the twenties, begin to discover what was known  as "Negro Art". But the products of traditional  African art - whether sculpture or dancing - were  appreciated as exotic curiosities or museum-pieces,  and not as elements of a living culture capable of  enriching the heritage of mankind. Hardly any study  was made of the languages, written or oral literature  or music.
8.18 The result fs that with the advent of our  independence, we have & tremendous task in front of  us in bringing our people out of the darkness of  ignorance. We shall, of course, rely primarily  on our own resources, but the solidarity of the more  privileged nations as manifested in Unesco will be  of valuable assistence to us,
8.19 With Independence, popular initiative has  found expression, as has the thirst for learning on  the part of our men and women, thus creating the  conditions necessary for the education of our chil-  dren - the starting point for the resurrection of our  cultural heritage in general,
8,20 Thanks to.the human investment, in other  words, to the voluntary unpaid work of the people,  within two years, hundreds of schools have been  built, or more than'in 60 years of colonial rule.  Our three-year plan provides for the construction  of 1,500 clasarooms by 1963, or one-and-a-half  a day, quite apart from those to be built by volunteers,
8.21 In 50 years, the colonial régime had set up  only one advanced primary school in Guinea, Today,  there are 10 secondary schools, while a polytechnical  institute'and a university centre are planned. :
8.22 A tremendous campaign is being waged to era-  dicate illiteracy, involving complex problems such  as the use of our national languages, for which we  have to compile grammars, vocabularies and rational  systems of transcriptions + This method, which isthe  most effective from the cultural standpoint, had  -never been taken up by the colonial government,
8.23 In the last two years, moreover, there has  been a veritable re-birth and revaluation of our na-  tional art. Under the impulse of the "Art and Culture"
233  XIV  section of our national youth organization, JEDA,  music, dancing and the theatre are marked by con-  siderable creative activity, to which our national ballet,  the heir of the African Ballet of our comrade Keita  Fodeba, kas already borne witness throughout the  world. Ç . , .
8.24 Is is our intention, be it noted to give this  renascence a deeper significance, What we want is  not e dead and mummified culture but a living one  combining everything capable of enriching universal  culture as our original contribution while fncorpo-  rating and integrating everything contributed by  other nations which has validity and life. Freed  from their age-old chains, our peoples are preparing  to make their original contribution to all forms of  culture and modern science, while opening their arms’  to the contributions of others. ;
8.25 Mr. President and delegates, however rapid  and sketchy this picture of what we are doing and  aim to do in education, science and culture may be,  it gives ycu an indication of what we hope to receive  from our Organization, for our activity is bound up  with the objectives of Unesco itself, We are con-  vinced thai the General Cotiference, in a spirit of  generosity worthy of the highest praise, will give  a large place in its programmes to Africa. Disin-  herited and neglected by the colonial régime, espe-  cially in the sphére of culture, Africa liberated or  on the road to liberation needs your active solidarity  so that it can quickly overcome its enforced back-  wardness. It needs, I repeat, your solidarity, of  which our Organization is the symbol, and not charity  or alms, with conditions attached, by means of which,  under the mask of paternalism and opportunism,  certain people would like to perpetuate the methods  and spirit of colonialism,
8.26 I should now like to express our views on  certain questions ‘on the agenda.
8.27 Solidarity, which is the international organi-  zations’ sole justification, should be our master  principle, and we should ban completely, on pain of  imperilling the very ‘éxistence of Unesco and the  other international organizations, any attempt to  transform it into the tool of a group of nations trying  to impose its supremacy or tutelage on other nations,
8.28 Solidarity infers that the increasingly inadmis-  sible exclusion of certain nations or States, the  absence of which disfigures our Organization and  deprives it of the universality which it ought to have,  should be lifted.
8.29 The Congo Republic has a legal government  headed by Mr. Patrice Lumumba. It was admitted  to the United Nations and it has all the qualifications  required to take its seat therein and to join the  Specialized Agencies, Troublemakers Cannot there-  fore be permitted to éhallenge the ‘established .  constitutional authority. We cannot but note that  these manoeuvres reveal a determination to bring  the independence of the Congo into question once  more and to maintain, in nore or less disguised  fashion, the principles of colonial tutelage, the  harmful effects of which on the development of  cultural values we all know,
8.30 Moreover, how can Unesco fulfil its glorious  mission if a nation of more than 650 million, repre-  senting one of the oldest of the world's civilizations  - I refer to People's China - is excluded? How our   xv  Organization, without flying in the face of reason,  logic and common'gense, claim to be universal when  it ignores’ a people which by itself makes up à quarter  of the human race and whose cultural wealth has con-  ‘æistently contributed to the advancement of universal  culture and science since the dawn of civilization?
8.31 We consider it inadmissible that the emana-  tions of the cold war should penetrate into an Organi-  zetion like ours, whose mission is to remain above  political considerations when they tend to promote  injustice and encourage reaction. We, on our part,  refuse to allow ourselves to be drawn into cold war  positions, in the wake of one or nther of the rival  blocs whith dominate the international scene,
8.32 We. are prepared to have cultural and friendly  relations with all States whatsoever, provided that  they respect our Independence and dignity, for true  universal culture acorns all political or ethnic  distinctions and eschews any impairment of the  personality and dignity of a nation,
8,33 These principles of co-operation based on  equality and mutual respect are those without which  the international organizations cannot live nor act.  To defend them is to defend the existence of the  international organizations themselves,
8.34 Unesco - we have already paid tribute to it  on this score - has vigorously condemned racialism  and racial discrimination, basing itself on the prin-  ciple of universal morality and on the positive findings  of science, It would earn credit and crown its work  in this field if it did likewise with regard to colonial-  fem, the disastrous effects of which on education,  science and culture we have already had occasion to  describe. Racialism fs nothing other than the  poisonous flower that grows from the root of  colonialism,
8.35 Nor could it be maintained that the adoption  of a stand of this kind by Unesco would call its pre-  rogatives into question. We know exactly what we  are about. If our work is to be effective and produce  results, then any system based on the dependence  and inferiority of one nation in respect of another  has to be condemned. ,
8.36 These considerations, we are certain, are in  line with the nature and principles of Unesco, and we  are convinced that they will triumph despite the  delaying efforts of those who want to put the cloock  back.
8.37 Unesco has set itaelf the lofty aim of aiding  all nations to develop their education and culture,  which men need as much as they do their daily bread,  It proposes, while respecting rational values, to  promote International understanding, to lead nations  to a knowledge and mutual apprectation of this  diversity of cultural yalues, each of which can  enrich all mankind. It is with joy and enthusiasm  that, liberated Guinea, like all the nations of Africa  undertakes to make its contribution to this noble  effort.
8.38 May our common determination lead to the  triumph of the spirit of human brotherhood which is  the essence of Uneaco's being!
9. The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe Russian):  Thank you for your statement, Mr. Sanguiana.  I now call upon the Head of the Indian delegation,  Dr.’ Shrimali.
10,1 Mr, SHRIMALI (India) * ro  Mr, President and fellow deicqates, on behalf of  the Government of India and the Indian National Com-  mission I bring to this eleventh segsion of the General  Conference best wishes for succes, The present  session to which several new mempers have been  admitted is an event ef historic sifmificance and 1  would like to offer our greetings t) the new members,  They will infuse new life and viia'ity In the work of  Unesco and by their contributions will enrich the  cultures of the world,
10.2 Our country has been vitally interested in the  work of Unesco since its Inception, It is our firm  belief that Unesco can be a powerful instrument for  developing the mutual understanding and appreciation  on which alona rest the foundations of peace. It is a  great tragedy that just at the moment when the world  has at its disposal all the resources which can give  material prosperity and happiness to the whole of  mankind, we should be frittering away our energies  in mutual recrimination and hatred. The world would  be a different place if all the resources which are.  being utilized today for armament were released for  the development of education and culture. The  present situation in which the world is divided into  separate blocs lends greater urgency to the work of  Unesco.
10.3 It is a matter of satisfaction to us that Unesco  is now directing its attention towards the problem of  education in the underdeveloped countries of Africa  and Asia. We fully realize that Unesco's assistance  cannot take the place of national endeavour, but  Unesco can and should assist these countries in  overcoming the difficulties and obstacles to their  escape from economic backwardness and intellectual  ntagnation - the result of centuries of alien domina-  tion. While the countries of Asia and Africa must  be grateful for the assistance which they receive  from Unesco and other advanced countries, the latter  rrust also realize that they have a moral responsibility  in this matter, Viewed in this perspective, the assist-  ance given to these countries will be considered not  as a charity or gift but as a duty ard responsibility.  I assure you that the assistance which Unesco is  giving will strike a sympathetic chord in the hearts  of millions of people of Asia and Africa who are  today engaged in the gigantic task of securing a  decent standard of living for their people; asalst-  ance wherever it may come from will always be  welcome provided it is consistent with the dignity,  freadom and self-respect of these people.
10.4 In my opinion, the most important task before  Unesco today is to help the underdeveloped countries  in the <xpansion of mass education, The surveys  made by Unesco have revealed that siearly 50% of  achool-going children in the ,world are denied ele-  mentary education. As long as this situation prevails,  the noble {deals enshrined in the Constitution of  Unesco will merely remain on paper, It is therefore  of the greatest importance that Unesco give high  priority to the solution of this problem,
10.5 The Reports of the Director-General on the  work of the Organization during the last two years  and appraisal of Unesco's programme reveal tre-  mendous achievements of which any organization  might be proud, In the field of education the Organi-  zation, which began its first major adventure in   PLENARY  Latin Americ , has done commendable work in three  surveys of educational needs, in Tropical Africa, the  Arab States and South East Asin, which have revealed  the full posaibilities of international action, In this  connexion, I would like to commend the report of the  Regional Meeting of the Representatives of Asian  Member States on Primary and Compulsory Educa-  tion as a great landmark in Unesco's efforts to pro-  mote educational opportunity, This meeting has  drawn up a working plan for compulsory primary  education in Asia, It has set a modest target of  expanding schooling facilities for 20% of the popula-  tion by 1980, covering 220 million pupils, The total  cost of this modest programme, spread over a period  of 20 yeai a, would come to about 56 billion dollars.  Accordirg to this report it is neither the personnel  requirements of the plan, nor the material needs  such as buildings, teachers' quarters, furniture or  * reading and teaching materials, that present the  major difficulties in {ta implementation, The crux  of the problem is financial and the meeting unani-  ‘ mously demanded the utilization of the world's re-  sources for this purpose, Although the work done  by Unesco in this field fe commendable, I cannot  help expreasing our deep regret that the draft budget  and programme has made no adequate provision for  this essential plan nor is there any clear indication  of its being developed as a Major Project in the near  future, ! am, however, glad to say that the Pro-  gramme Commission, at the meeting held yesterday,  sanctioned the Karachi plan and I have no doubt thet  the General Conference will also glve its approval,  This will be a major step on the part of Unesco  towards the solution of this enormous problem. So  far as my country is concerned, we have decided in  spite of our financial and other limitations to intro-  ‘duce free primary education for the age group be-  tween 6 to 11 by the end of the Third Five-Year Plan
(1966) and a sum of 1,800 million rupees has been  earmarked for this purpose. If Unesco can supple-  ment such national efforts, il will greatly accelerate  the progress of elementary education.
10.6 Another important activity of the Organization  has been the East-West Major Project. We are happy  to find from the Director-General's Report that this  project hes received tremendous response and sup-  port from Member States and National Commissions,  but this programme has hardly touched the fringe of  the colossal task involved. . Study and research,  integration of this project with school education,  development of a network of institutions and produc-  tion of suitable material are foreshadowed in the  budget and programme with a modest increase of  financial resources, and are indeed welcome  activities which will kelp to consolidate the interest  and enthusiasm already aroused by this project.  When the project was conceived and eventually  launched, many sceptics dismissed it as rather  woolly anid amorphous ; but experience has shown  that it must be made a cornerstone of Unesco's pro-  gramme for years to come. The needs are diverse  and'it is quite obvious that if this project is to grow,  the resources will have to increase several fold.  Translation of classics, reproduction of works of  art, travelling exhibition.., popvlar material and  literature and audio-visual aids for school systems  - all these and many other activities require a
235  MEETINOS ; Ay  master plan ranging over.p long period, and in each  field colossal tasks await us. Many treasures of the  human mind and spirit still lie hidden and great ef-  forts and resourchs are néeded to discover them,
10.7 = While we appreciate the effort Unesco is  making in the implementation of the East-West  Major Project, it is regrettable that Unesco's pro-  gramme on tension atudiès and race relations has  somewhat receded into the background. Perhaps  even more serjoua than the cold was is racial  discrimination, The cull of a master race was  apparently deféated on the battlefields of the last  great war but'it 16 raising its ugly head in many  places, In certain parts of the world - these are  too well known to require mention here ~ the policy  of racial discrimination has hecome a settled policy  of the State und apartheld has extended even to educa-  tion and health serviçes, This is a direct affront to  the dignity and worth of the human individual and, if  it 1e not ended soon, it may jeopardize the entire  programme of international understanding and co-  operation, Racial discrimination has tragic human  consequences and unless the enlightened world  conecience is aroused and the protlem is success-  fully solved the peace of this worl‘1 will continue to  be threatened. This is a major challenge, and  Unesco must mobilize all its moral and intellectual  resources to find a peaceful‘ gotution to this’ problem.
10.5 Mr. President, ! would now like to touch  briefly upon the significant change which has already  taken place and is bound to become a prominent fea-  ture of the programme and work of the Organization,  namely reglonalization. From 1954 Unesce began to  respond to the felt needs of the Member States and  the action programmes that began to emerge inevi-  tably had to take into account the mali'geographical  and cultural regions of the world. The Major Project  for Latin America was the firat decisive step in this  direction and the East-West Major Project is an effort  in the same direction. Major education programmes  for Africa, the Arab States and Asia will undoubtedly  follow the same lines. These developments, as the  Director-General has rightly mentioned, raise prob-  lems connected with the structure of the programme  and the means of implementing it. If I may venture  so to suggest, Mr, President, the Organization will  soon have io reconsider the entire question of its own  structure and the composition of the Secretariat, in  the light of the new heavy responsibilities which it is  undertaking, For example, it is inconceivable that a  programme of education for Asla extending over a  period of 20 years, when adopted by the Organization,  can be implemented without some element of decen-  tralization, The Director-General has rightly em-  phasized that the general activities of the Organiza-  tion give it its special character and unity; they  give its work continuity and a scientific foundation.  But surely the general activities which will be  directly connected with euch vast action programmes  will have to be centred round the main geographical  regions or areas and will inevitably lead to some  decentralization. Inthe East-West Major Project  Unesco has already envisaged a network of institu-  tions which will be its focal points for operation,  We have also a centre at Karachi for literature for  new literates. In the field of social sciences there  are already significant regional organizations and in   XIV PLENARY  the field of natural sciences the Science Co-operation  Otfices are functioning to a great extent as programme  agencies, When these diverse programmes become  Integrated and adequate to meet thé felt needs of the  regions, suitable machinery for their co-ordinated  operation will have to be devised. This trend of  development does occasionally raise apprehensions  about the unity and effectiveness of the international  organization, but if the objective of international  understanding and co-operation inspires the efforts  of the Organization, as it undoubtedly will, there  need be no fear on this acore.
10.9 In this context I would like to mention that,  in order to formulate and implement programmes  of this kind and dimension, the composition of the  Secretariat needs to refleqt much more adequately  the different regions and areas of the world. While  financial contribution to an international organization  is undoubtedly an important factor in celculating the  share of the Member States in the staff, we must  view this problem in the larger context of confidence  and effective participation of the different regions in  the formulation and implementation of the ambitious  programmes of the Organization. : The Director-  General is conscious of this problem and we welcome  his efforts to improve geographical representation.  The present situation, although an improvement over  the past, cannot be considered satisfactory. We do  not want to introduce a narrowly regional spirit into  an international organization, but we cannot help  feeling that there are some areas which are over-  represented while others are under-represented or  unrepresented. * 1 would urge the Director-General  to review further the composition of the Secretariat  and take further steps to increase the representation  of unrepresented and under-reoresented States. I  need not add, Mr, President, tljat the review of this  problem has become all the mare urgent with the  admission of new Member Sates to this Organization.
10,10 Mr, President, we in India attach great im-  portance to the work of this Organization. It is our  , fervent hope that the creative work which Unesco is  undertaking in the fields of education, science and  culture will ultimately bring about the triumph of  truth and love over the evil forces of fear, violence  and hatred, We have been taught by our great  masters - Buddha and Gandhi - that force cannot be  counteracted by force, but only by love, Ii is this  spirit which guided us in our struggle for independ-  ence and continues to guide us in all ‘our activities.  Sometimes our policy is wrongly construed as  neutralism, I must make it clear that we are too  deeply wedded to the ideals of peace and international  co-operation to remain neutral towards these funda-  mental values. We are interested in the lessening of  world tension since we are aware of the tragic con-  sequences of nuclear warfare that threatens the world  today. We seek a common measure of agreement  since we belleve that it is only by concentrating on  points of agreement and widening the field of inter-  national co-operation that à great spiritual energy will  be released which may pave the way for a world culture.
11. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):
1 should like to thank Dr, Shrimali for his state-  ment, I now call upon the Head of the deleration of  Thalland, Professor Salvidhannides.  N 236  MEETIRGS
12,1 Mr, SALVIDHANNIDES (Thailand) à  Mr, President, distinguished delegates, the  delegation of Thailand takes pleasure in presenting  to this General Conference the cordial greetings of  the Government and people of Thalland, The Thailand  delegation associates {taelf with the sentiments already  expressed by other delegations in welcoming to Unesco  the new Member States of the African continent,
12,2 On behalf of my delegation, I should like to  noto with great satisfaction that His Majesty King  Bhumibol Adulyadej pald a visit to the Unesco Head-  quarters a few weeks ago and was warmly welcomed  by the Director-General, Dr. Vittorino Veronese,  and his staff. This royal visit resulted from a  personal invitation given to His Majesty by Dr,  Veronese and Sir Ben Bowen Thomas, Chairman of  the Unesco Executive Board, during an audience in  the Royal Palace at Bangkok early this year. The  visit to Unesco was undoubtedly a highlight in a  series of State visits made by Their Majesties to  the United States of America and to European coun-  tries, We can proudly claim that the royal goodwill  tour symbolizes the spirit of Unesco's Major Project  on the Mutual Appreciation of Eastern and Western  Cultural Values, to which Thailand attaches great  importance as a means to international understanding  and world peace.
12.3 For this reason, my delegation warmly sup-  ports the proposed programme for the East-West  Major Project which, among other things, will allow  more scope for action by Member States, while at  the same time placing increasing emphasis on the  means of communication between groups with differ-  ent cultural backgrounds, and on comparative studies  of the various Eastern and Western civilizations, In  my delegation's view the East-West programme,  which is to be reorientated and intensified, definitely  warrants the proposed increase in the appropriation.
12.4 With regard to the programme for cultural  activities, which 1s-very closely linked with the  East-West Major Project, my delegation congratu-  lates the Secretariat for its sustained interest in the  cultural heritage which has been handed down in the  course of history, The Secretariat's special efforts  to save the Nubian monuments from the march of  material progress illustrate the determination to  safeguard the cultural treasures of mankind for the  present and future generations. In this connexion,  my delegation notes with pleasure that Unesco will  continue to give the lead to Member States in bring-  ing before an ever-increasing publie the treasures  of art and literature. In particular, Thailand is  greatly interested in the activities of thé Interna-  tional Council of Museums whose aim ii' is to foster  the development of museums as educational and  cultural centres. Me
12.5 With reference to the proposed educational  programme and budget, it is gratifying to learn that  the Secretariat has decided to tackle the problem of  primary education in Asia, in Arab Member States  and in Tropical Africa. The countries in these three  regions have long felt the need for concerted action  to combat the colossal problem of ignorance and  illiteracy. They cannot solve these probloms single-  handed. Thanks to the expérience gained from the  Latin-America Primary Education Project, the pro-  posed programme with {ts long-term plan has been   PLENARY  realistically conceived, considering the magnitude  and complexity of the problem, In my delegation's  view, although the planned targets have been set at  "modest and reasonable" levels, there is still great  risk of the realization falling far short of expectation  unless advanced countries see the importance of ex-  tending their co-operation and assistance to the three  regions.
12,6 In any case, Thailand welcomes the opportu-  nity to join in the campaign against illiteracy and will  be honoured to act as host to the proposed Regional  Education Bureau. This bureau will service the  Asian Member States with data and information on  the various aspects of primary education and will  help them establish or improve their own national  education bureaux, Thailand will also be pleased  to extend its hospitality to the Organization's Regional  Office which will facilitate concerted action and co-  ordinated assistance on the part of Agencies and  Member States collaborating with Asian countries  in the field of primary and compulsory education.
12.7 In the field of mass communication, my  delegation gains a reassuring impression that Unesco  will continue to lay emphasis on the development of  information media aud on the promotion of interna-  tional understanding through the press, radio and  visual information media. We are pleased toobserve  that a number of recommendations made by the  Regional Mass Communication Media Meeting held  at Bangkok are incorporated in the proposed pro-  gramme for the next two years. One of the recom-  mendations is the proposal to establish a Press and  Graphic Arts Institute in Asia. . In our view, this  {ristitute could make a significant contribution to the  use of mass communication techniques in education  and other fields of activities within the compass of  the Organization, My delegation has been entrusted  with the task of making a preliminary approach to  the Secretariat to irivestigate the possibilities of co-  operating with the Organization in this fresh enter-  prise. We hope that our invitation for the institute  to be set up at Bangkok will be accepted.
12,8 On examining the programme for natural  scicnces, I dare say that many uf us cannot help  sharing Bertrand Russell's wish to become a  scientist instead of a philosopher, or whatever we  happen to be in our life's career. The proposed pro-  gramme opens an exciting vista onto an enlarged  perspective of future possibilities in store ¢f mankind.  It would be invidious to single out a few projects in  the programme for commendation. The Thai delega-  tion, nevertheless, wishes to acclaim a Unesco path-  breaking project, the promotion of marine sciences,  which promises food and other materials badly  needed by the fast-growing world population,
12,9 The next point which deserves mention is the  progremme for social sciences which will focus  attention on the problems of balance between social  and economic development, the problems of urbani-  zation and of cross-cultural research, The pro-  gramme will also offer facilities for the training  of personnel engaged in social and economic develop-  ment. All these projects have direct relevance to  that great part of the world which is accelerating its  economic development at the risk of upsetting the  traditional social fabric and structure. There is an  analogy here between the tangible threat against the
237  MEETINGS xiv  Nubian monuments and the intangible but far-reaching  menace against tested and tried ways of life all over  the world. The crux of the problem that now comes  to the fore appears to be how best to adjust the slow  pace of social evolution to the march of industrializa-  tion, In any case, I am sure that developing countries  will benefit by the achievement of Unesco's Social  Sciences programme,
12.10 In examining the proposed programme and  budget as a whole, my delegation heartily congratu-  lates the Executive Board and the Secretariat for their  judicious distribution of the Organization's resources  among projects in hand and new enterprises which  may, in the near future, qualify for the status of  Major Projects.
12,11 I am happy to report to this General Confer-  ence that, in the past year, Thailand had the honour  of acting as host to three important Unesco meetings :  the Meeting on the Development of Information Media  in South East Asia, the first regional meeting of its  kind in the world, which the Director-General and  Chairman of the Executive Board attended in person ;  the Meeting of the Consultative Committee for the  International Institute for Child Study, which was  attended by Dr, Malcolm S. Adiseshiah, Assistant  Director-General; and the Expert Meeting on  Evaluation Techniques. These meetings provided  opportunities for experts and governmental repre-  sentatives to confer and pave the way for future  action within the framework of Unesco.
12,12 In addition to the above meetings, Thailand is  also co-operating with Unesco on three projects : the  Thailand-Unesco Fundamental Education Centre, the  Rural Teacher Education Project and the International  Institute for Child Study, To put it briefly, the three  projects deal mainly with fundamental education, the  training of rural teachérs and with cross-cultural  research in child psychology, respectively, The  projects have made good progress and have achieved  significant results which are being duplicated else-  where in the country and are attracting considerable  attention from other Asian couniries. All these are  practical and concrete efforts.
12.13 Finally, Mr. President and distinguished  delegates, 1 wish to conclude by saying that the  delegation of Thailand is confident that, working  together, the Member States of Unesco can lay solid  foundations for the progress of mankind through  practical and concrete programmes for education,  science and culture,
13. The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe Russian):  I now call upon the Head of the Italian delegation,  H.E, Mr. Bosco.
14,1 Mr, BOSCO (Italy) (Translation from the  French) :  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this  eleventh session of the General Conference is taking  place at a time when Unesco is witnessing, or is  about to witness, developments of fundamental, and  even historical, significance to which I should like  to draw your attention. They are the mass accession  to independence of Africa South of the Sahara; the  “evolution of the Organization's activities in a very  specifically operational direction; and the availability  of new budgetary and extra-budgetary resources.   XIV PLENARY MEETINGS
14.2 It is not by chance that all these developments  are taking place simultaneously; dnd if I have singled  out these themes from among others in the reports  submitted to us by the Director-General, it is in  order to project them into the perspective of the  future activities we are about to undertake, and  because I feel that thereis a logical link betweenthem.
14.3 The accession of Africa South of the Sahara  to independerice is in itself an historical fact which  we are happy to welcome here, aware as we are of  its great moral importance and of its future signific-  ance for human progress, We see in it the gage of  wider human solidarity in mutual understanding, and,  at the same time an obligation on our part to make  our solidarity ever more effective in International  co-operation,
14.4 This new state of affairs raises two questions,  among others : that of the active participation of  these African States in the life of Unesco, and that  of the development of action on their behalf.
14.5 It was in recognition of the importance of the  firstofthese problems;the active participation of these  African States inthe life of Unesco,that my Govern-  ment, together with a number of others ,took the ini-  tiative of proposing an incréase inthe membership of  the Executive Board. Apartf{rom andin addition to its  merit as alegal and political stand,this measure is  justifiedby its valuein humanterms as a spontaneous  movement representing a definite advance over the ri-  gidity of atrict legal requirements. Itis,! believe, in  this sense that it will be appreciated, andthat its deep  significance will be recognized, by our African  brothers, Fromthe moment of their entry into this  House, it has been our desire thatthey should feel  fully at ease, at home, among the representatives of  friendly peoples, who have done and who will do more  for their advancement than would appear from certain  - not politically disinterested - statements that have  been made, :..
14.6 It is in this spirit of fraternity that my coun-  try has the liveliest satisfaction in welcoming the  inclusion in the Executive Board of a great African  scientist from whom we expect a vital contribution.  It was in the same spirit of friendship, that Italy  welcomed the unanimous election to the Presidency  of this General Conference of the honourable repre-  sentative of Ethiopia.
14.7 But there {3 more to it than this. As I have  just said, these riew facts commit us to undertaking  more intensive activity to aid the nations which need  and freely request help in making a more direct  attack on the problems of their development.
14,8 During the past two years, In fact, Unesco,  with a keen sense of reality and the courage that all  innovation requires, has taken steps to give its  activities a more specifically operational character.  And now the Director-General, to whose realism  and courage in this respect we must pay tribute, has  just proposed a programme which underlines this  development,’
14,9 In addition, there is the fact that new budgetary  resources now make it possible to undertake thin  grandiose and urgent task, -
14.10 During the past few days we have, to our deep  regret, seen resolutions submitted here which con-  flict with the established rules. Doomed to rejection  in advance, irrespective of their intrinsic value,
238  they constitute a discordant element in our work,
14.11 The preliminary condition to enable the  newly Independent nations to approach Unesco in all  confidence and to profit from its services, in fact,  is for our organization to remain non-political,  Science, culture and artistic creation must be free  of any political influence, for otherwise they cannot  exist: they refuse tobe circumscribed by political  programmes, And so it was with a feeling of disap:  pélntraent that we have listened to speeches calling in  so many words for the increased politicization of  Unesco, whereas our own view is - as the delegate  of Switzerland has just pointed out - that the exact  opposite should be encouraged.
14,12 Only by basing culture, science and art on a  foundation making them free and independent of poli-  tics can we expect Unesco's activities to be profitable  and fruitful. .
14.13 What I have said merely reinforces’ the  principle set forth in our Constitution to the effect  that the Organization's purpose is to contribute to  peace and security - a purpose which is and must be  the essential alm of every one of Unesco's members.  But the Constitution also states that the Organization  must make {ts contributioii "to further universal  respect for justice, for the rule of law, and for the  human rights and fundamental freedoms’ for all,  "without distinction of race, sex, language or religion”,
14.14 The acceleration of the process of independ-  ence for pecples still living under the yoke of anout-  dated colonialism is often urged, and rightly so, But  it 1s with the same vigour that we should urge the  application of the principle, also included in the  Unesco Constitution, that we must provide opportu-  nities for all forthe "unrestricted pursuit of objective  truth" and "the free exchange of idess and knowledge":  This demands the application, in its entirety, of the  principle of freedom in {ts various concrete mani-  festations : freedom of opinion, freedom of the press,  freedom of political organization, freedom of religion.
14.15 All the above raises questions of structure,  method and co-ordination, of which I should like to  speak later. What is important here is primarily to  establish that all this is based on the fact which the  world has just noted - I might almost say discovered:  namely, the importance of education as a fundamental  factor - as a prerequisite, even - of all economic.and  social development. It is the establishment of this  truth, well known, of course, but sometimes mis-  construed, that has resulted in the flow of long-  awaited resources to education, and hence to Unesco.  It is in this respect that the factors to which I have  referred are so closely interlinked. In the history  of the evolution of international organizations, the  recognition of the paramount importance of education  has a date - a very recent one - which might be classed  as official and which deserves to be recorded here,  It was on 21 July last that the Economic and Social  Council, studying ' ‘opportunities for international co-  operation on behalf of newly independent countries"  adopted a resolution which implictly recognized the  principle that education and training are generally  accepted as being the key not only to the material  welfare of these countries but also to their stability.
14.16 From this follows recognition of the funda-  mental rôle which Unesco is called upon to play in the  concerted action of the United Nations and the      PLENARY  Specialized Agericles, And this récognition has beer  more than purely theoretical: on the contrary, our  Organization has been called upon to play an increas-  ingly active and important rôle - both as technical  adviser and implementing agent - in a number of  educational activities financed by Technicri Assisi-  ance, the Special Fund and other bodies ‘Concerned  with economic and social development
14,17 It is Interesting to note that Ujesce had  forseen and prepared for this developjient, and had  even anticipated it by Introducing s' pittural reforms,
14,18 In 1953, Vittorino Veron¢ «5, who today  heads the Secretariat, urged the "Ixecutive Board to  give fresh thought to questions of the structure of the  Organization's programme ; and vhy concentration of  means on a few objectives so as to mia “he needs of  Member States more adequately is likewise due to his  efforts, The reform which was approved at Montevideo  and which still constitutes the structural basis of the  programme was the outcome of this work,
14.19 Now that the hour of action has struck, we  should be gratified to note that the machinery for it  is already there. It is only fair to remember how  much we owe to those who, during fourteen years of  effort, have cleared ihe ground, explored and classified  the problems, perfected well-tried methods and pro-  duced a highly qualified Secretariat,
14.20 The events of the past two years have called  for constant vigilance on the part of the Director-  General and Secretariat in faithfully interpreting  new needs; and while it is true that the ever quicker  flow of documents has sometimes made it difficult  for our national services to study the Proposed Pro-  gramme, it would be unfair not to regard it as proof  of a constant determination to face uptothese new needs.
14,21 While this is true as regards the formulation  of the programme, it is even more strikingly so as  regards emergency activities.
14.22 Backed by the Executive Board, the Director-  General has courageously embarked on a new form of  action in the Congo, where urgent and exceptional  needs became apparent in the field of education. I  should like to thank him here and assure him of our  fullest support - and not merely of our moral support -  in contributing to a task of such value for interna-  tional understanding and world peace.
14.23 Emergency action has also been taken in a  field other than the high priority sector of education,  and hence a field in which even greater courage and  decision was required. - In Nubia, the promotion of  the welfare of its population has inspired a tremen-  dous undertaking which incidentally raised the prob-  lem of the fate of its magnificent monuments. The  Director-General unhesitatingly appealed to inter-  national solidarity in an attempt to save these  examples of one of the greatest civilizations that  man has ever achieved. The duty to preserve  cultural property, as the heritage of all mankind,  le inscribed not only in the Constitution of our  Organization but also in our hearts. I should like  to assure the Director-General and the Governments  of the United Arab Republic and the Sudan, bound  together in friendship, of my country's full support,  We have just set up a national committee for the  purpose and have provided for studies and missions  in connexion with specific projects included in the  overall plan of these activities, -
14,24 The development of Unesco's operational  activities raises another problem which I consider  more serious and difficult, namely the scope and  importance of the "general activities" as defined in  the pattern agreed on at Montevideo, The Director-  General asgures us in the introduction $a the pro-  gramme, that they will not be sacrified but will be  developed on appropriate lines, We thank him for  this assurance: he is aware of the importance that  the Italian delegation has always attached to the  maintenance of these activities, which prevent the  Organization being reduced to a hodge-podge of serv-  icea and ensure its contact with science and culture in  their highest forms, Without such contact, I repeat,  any practical actiyity or even popularization work  would inevitably and swiftly break down,
14.25 For these reasons, we should like to racom-  mend that a substantial proportion of the means  devoted to new operational activities bo set aside for  fundamental research,
14,26 Even if we consider education alone, the  sums available not only to Unesco but to all'mankind  will siill be far from sufficient for its vast needs.  We should keep on asking ouraelves whether it is  more useful to use more and more traditional means  or whether it would not be better to seek new ones.
14.27 In this regard, I regret to note that in spite  of the repeated efforts of the Italian delegation the  prominence given in the programme’ to visual meant  is still far less than it should be in the light of their  potentiality, Italy's experiments in the use of  television, the radio and the cinema in the field  of education have had definitely positive results,
14,28 When we talk of means, long habit naturally  inclines us to think interms of money. It is clear that  liquid availabilit.d& are essential, but we would be  wrong to think that money by itself could suffice,  Even if we were able to have a budget several times  larger, it would still not mean that we would be able  to spend the allocations appropriately. The problem  which mankind is increasingly coming up against is  to find qualified men to implement programmes, and  the training of experts will have tobe expanded in that  connexion,” On the success of this activity depends  the development of world civilization. .
14.29 Ido not want to be misunderstood on this  point, or to give the impression that what I have said  implies a hidden intention to oppose an increase in  financial contributions. That is not at all the case:  my Government's policy and attitude point in the  opposite direction, We hope, with all due caution, that  increasingly larrer funds will be made available to  Unesco so that it can continue to develop its activities  and render them more effective.
14.30 1 should like to point out, on the other hand,  that there are sacrifices greater than merely paying  out sums of money which we should agree to make if  we really wish to help promote more extensive and  more effective work by Unesco on behalf of the  nations seeking to develop more rapidly. We must  find - And even train and lend - men whose profes-  sional yualifications are coupled with absolute in-  tegrity and a profound sense of the importance of  their mission. For without these qualities, the work  of assistance may become the subtle instrument of a  cultural oppression against which we cannot sufficiently  warn those aspiring so enthusiastically to progress.   XIV PLENARY
14.31 It ie by multiplying the means of international  co-operation through this essential contribution of  men and money, by undertaking to carry out our task  with the greatest respect for objectivity, that we shall  succeed in making Unesco's action powerful and ef-  fective. I hereby accept this undertaking - or,  rather; I renew it - on behalf of my country, in the  profound conviction that doing so will enable us to  achieve the lofty aims assigned to us by our Consti-  tution: international understanding firmly rooted in  our hearts and minds, co-operation in which respect  for traditional values is harmoninusly blended with
240  MEETINGS  new forms, and in which the contribution of Individual  civilizations is abundantly provided in the feeling of  the one-ness of mankind and in the higher vision of  an ideal of universality, peace and brotherhood,
15, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Russian):  { should like to thank the Minister for his state-  ment. I hereby declare the meeting closed. This  afternoon's meeting will begin at'3, 30 p, m, and the  first speaker will be the representative of the  Hungarian delegation.  The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.