22 November 1960, at 3,40 p,m,  President: Mr. Akale-Work ABTE-WOLD (Ethiopia)  CONTENTS  General discussion of the  (continued) + + + + +  GENERAL DISCUSSION OF THE REPORTS OF  THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL (continued)  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  The thirteenth plenary meeting is open. I call on  H.E. Mr. Matsul, Chairman of the Credentials  Committee.
2, Mr. MATSUI (Japan), Chairman of the Creden-  tials Committee (Translation from the French);  Mr. President, this morning we took a decision  on Paraguay's right to vote, In accordance with the  decision previously taken, I have pleasure in inform-  ing you that the delegation of Paraguay has submitted  its provisional credentials in the form of a telegram  from the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
3.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  The Conference takes note of the statement by the  Chairman of the Credentials Committee.
3.2 We shall now resume the general discussion.  Icall upon H.E. Mr. Milos Zanko, Head of the  Yugoslav delegation.
4.1 Mr. ZANKO (Yugoslavia) (Translation from  the French):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf  of the Yugoslav delegation I should like first of all  to emphasize my country's confidence in Unesco  and its appreciation of the Organization's activities  and to state that we are in agreement with the general  policy of the Proposed Programme and Budget for
4.2 Looking back on the road so far travelled, we  can say that Unesco has not only fcund its appropriate  place in the life of the world community but that i*  has also found a practical programme for its  activities.
4.3 The main problems on which maximum attention  should be concentrated are clearly defined, the  working methods have been satisfactorily tested, and  a great many practical activities have been success-  fully carried out or are under way. We should also  like to pay tribute to the good work of the Director-  General and the Secretariat of Unesco.
4.4 This favourable appraisal of the work accom-  plished by Unesco in no way means that we are blind
203  reports of the Director-General
203  to the obvious fact that there is an enormous dispro-  portion between humanity's needs - especially as  regards those countries which are underdeyeloped in  the promotion of education, sclence and culture - and  the very slow pace of international action which has  wholly inadequate resources at ita diaporal. But -  and we should like to stress this point - this dispro-  portion, while it explains the inadequacy of Unesco's  activities in this field - does not imply any weakness  in the structure or programme of our Organization.  On the other hand, it does draw attention to the state  of affairs and, in itself, constitutes a grave criticisin  of the situation at present prevailing in international  relations, That international situation diverts the  efforts and resources of the world community towards  armament, instead of concentrating them on the main  constructive tasks of our time: the material well-  being and the cultural progress of all peoples.
4,5 The Yugoslav delegation has come to the  eleventh session of the General Conferencé with the  profound conviction that, through its activities and  the generous aims which justify its existence, Unesco  too can contribute to the preservation of peace and the  development of co-operation among the peoples,
4.6 We believe it to be extremely important to  emphasize this, as this great assembly is meeting at  a time marked by certain phenomena which are  appreciably and rapidly modifying the activities,  functions, policy and possibiliti¢s 6f our Organization.
4.7 Moreover, the new trends towards a return to  the cold war - in consequence of the division of the  world into hostile blocs and of ideological intolerance -  are creating an atmosphere full of uncertainty for the  days ahead. There is no need to emphasize how  adverse this situation is to the interests of the world  community; it is obviously at variance with the  progressive trends towards a united world; it runs  counter to the trend towards unification, which is  surely coming, resulting from the economic,  scientific and technical development of our world,  These changes in the material conditions of mankind's  existence give us a new background and call for an  entirely new spirit in the mutual relations between  all the peoples of the earth - relations which should  be based on the principles of active and peaceful  coexistence.
4.8 The extent to which the situation I have mentioned   XIII PLENARY  and its corollaries - especially the armaments race -  restricts the scope for effective action by Unesco and  the full development of the Organization is obvious to  all and there {8 no need, 1 think, to stress the point  any further. =
4,9 If the cold war is continued,renewed and main-  tained, our progress along the brink of the abyss is  bound to lead us to disaster, And this would be,  above all else, a certain and undeniable proof that  the forces of peace and progress are unable to  counter madness, irresponsibility and selfish  interests with effective international action on behalf  of human achievements and mankind's ideals.
4,10 We are, moreover, witnessing an unprece-  dented awakening on the part of the largest section of  mankind which has hitherto been unable to take part  in determining and directing its own destiny.
4.11 The task at present facing the international  community, its members and organizations, is to  help these peoples so that their newly won freedom  may bring them its full economic, cultural and  political benefits, Unesco has an obligation of its  own as regards the development of education in  Africa, for the new States! accession to independence  makes {t urgently necessary to provide increased  international assistance in every field to help these  countries in their efforts to avail themselves of the  advantages of independence, to assume the responsi-  bilities it brings with it, and to achieve rapid  economiq and social progress in stable conditions,
4.12 The gradual liberation of the colonial and  dependent peoples 1s an historic event of the first  importance, not only becauee it is leading to the  ending of a system of exploitation, enslavement and  humiliation for a great many people but also because  it is introducing new and progressive forces into the  active life of the international community, Their  emergence is strengthening the forces on the side of  peace and active coexistence, since the basic aspira-  tions of these new members are naturally concerned  with the consolidation of their newly acquired freedom  and accelerated domestic development, along with  the desire to take their place on an equal footing  within the world organization and to contribute to the  triumph of peace and the normalization of international  relations,
4.13 For this reason, I should like to take advantage  of this opportunity to extend the warmest greetings  on behalf of the Yugoslav delegation to the new  members of our Organization at this session and  especially to the African countries. I am convinced  that their contribution to Unesco's development will  be effective, efficient and considerable.
4.14 We thought it necessary, for a number of  reasons, to draw attention to the facts I have  mentioned.
4.15 The negative trends to which I have referred,  as well as the positive trends - the emancipation of  the colonial countries and Trust Territories - have  a considerable influence both on the general atmos-  phere and on the scope of those tasks which Unesco  is dedicated to carrying out. The proposed pro-  gramme and budget which we have before us gives us  practical evidence of this, Under this programme,  Unesco's main efforts and a large proportion of the  means available to the Organization are directed  towards the development of education, science and ;  MEETINGS  culture in the underdeveloped countries of Africa,  Asia and the Arab world. We support this programme  policy because it is in line with the principles and  trends we have mentioned,
4.16 But, on the other hand, this programme and  the funds which have been provided for its imple-  mentation from the resources available to Unesco,  Technical Assistance and the Special Fund, very  clearly demonstrate the Inadequacy of the means  which the international community, and especially its  economically privileged members, have put at our  disposal for the carrying out of these tasks so as to  discharge their debt to countries which, through no  fault of their own, are living in wretched economic  and culturel conditions. This inadequacy becomes  all the more apparent If we compare the resources  available with the immense needs of these countries  with regard to education and with the very limited  possibilities which these people have of remedying  this critical situation through their own means. It  must not be forgotien that 45% of the world's children  have no opportunity of attending primary school And  even this figure gives a misleading impression of the  actual situation, since this very high percentage is  mainly concentrated in Africa, Asia and Latin America,  As regards some of these continents, as many as 70  or even 90% of the children have no opportunity for  primary education.
4,17 Then again, in 14 Tropical African countries,  the proportion of secondary school pupils {s less than
5% of the total primary enrolment whereas the figure  varies from 60 to 80% in the developed countries, In  the highly developed countries, the percentage of the  population attending higher educational establishments  is greater than that of primary pupils in certain  underdeveloped countries.
4,18 That 1s the situation in this field with which we  are concerned, And the total amount which the world  community provides each year, not only for the  development of education in the underdeveloped  countries but for assistance to-those countries in  general, is equivalent to the cost of one modern super  bomber! Uneeco's budget ts very much less than  this figure,
4,19 The present international tension is causing  attention, intellectual efforts and material resources  to be directed towards armament and nuclear tests,  leaving on one side humanity's real problems and  pressing needs. And among these needs, education ’  and culture, as means of achieving well-being and a  worthier life for men, are certainly not the least. If  this is true in general, it ie still more so as regards  the underdeveloped countries.
4.20 Since we are looking at the situation in this  Hght, perhaps I may acquaint you with our point of  view, our attitude, as it was explained in a statement  made to the General Assembly of the United Nations  by the Head of our delegation, President Tito. This  statement is directly related to the problems which  affect us so closely,
4,21 "..,The measures undertaken by the United  Nations so far in this respect have undoubtedly been  useful, but have by no means corresponded to the  actual needs. If assistance through the United Nations  were to continue on so limited a scale, at so slow a  pace, and in the manner in which it has been given  so far, its effect could hardly be expected to tally
204   PLENARY MEETINGS  with the interests of the consolidation of the  countries concerned and of world peace. We should  then sil;1 be faced with the wholly unwarranted  situatl 1: where the highly developed countries spend  on armainpats a sum equal to tha total production of  the underdeveloped countries and where one tenth of  the production of our planet is being thrown into  funds earmarked for destruction and devastation  instead of being directed towards the advancement  and progress of mankind, One of the most urgent  tasks of the present session of the General Assembly  is therefore to hasten, extend and render more  effective all forms of international assistance and of  international financing of the development of under-  developed countries, primarily through an increase  of funds available to the United Nations for the purpose.  This, in fact, means that our Organization should now  undertake large-scale action for the purpose of pro-  viding broad and unselfish assistance to the newly  independent countries so as to enable them to con-  solidate their independence and advance vigorously  along the path of economic, cultural and general  progress ..."
4.22 Considering Unesco's proposed programme in  this light, and taking account of the difficult situation  in which all the underdeveloped countries, and especi-  ally the newly emancipated African countries, find  themselves, the Yugoslav delegation believes that  Unesco should initiate a great international assistance  campaign and that our Organization should boldly  extend the proposed programme - which, moreover,  we approve.
4,23 The development of education in these countries  calls for much more substantial material aid, for the  construction of school buildings, for equipment, for  books and, above all, it calla for nore effective  assistance in the provision of teachers.
4,24 All this emerges clearly from the repo:is  which have been submitted to us, and the same points  were emphasiZéd in the Report of the Meeting of  Ministers and Directors of Education of Tropical  African Countries, held at Addis Ababa in February  this year. That report emphasizes that " most  African countries have in recent years devoted to  education a large proportion of their budgets.  Although additional efforte in this direction are  necessary, there is a limit to national budgets and  governments are faced with the difficulty of having to  deveiop all aspects of national life at one and the same  time. It was suggested that traditional means of  financing are no longer adequate and that new ways  and means have to be devised."
4.25 Endorsing thie appeal, the Yugoslav delegation  has submitted to the General Committee of the Con-  ference a draft resolution calling upon all Member  States to provide immediate aid, both material and  financial, in respect of equipment and teaching staff.
4.26 Such aid could be supplied either by means of  a special Unesco account or directly, with due  respect for the dignity and independence of the States  concerned. Unesco's task would consist in co-ordin-  ating such activities and serving ag headquarters for  the conduct of the campaign. The guiding principle  in this international aid should be the Latin proverb  "bls dat qui cito dat",
4.27 We believe that the success of such a project  in Tropical Africa might provide the starting point
205  xa  for a wider undertaking jn this field and encourage a  bigger international assistance campaign which would  take In underdeveloped regions in other continents,  e.g. Asia, the Near East and Latin America.
4,28 Yugoslavia attaches very great importance to  the action undertaken by Unesco to save the monu-  ments of Nubla. Following the appeal launched by  the Director-General, we formed a National Action  Committee for Nubia and obtained the sum of 30  million dinars from our Government, A Yugoslav  mission of inquiry recently visited the United Arab  Republic and the Sudan and submitted a detailed  report to the National Committee. As a first step in  providing ald, it has been decided to send qualified  speclalists - architects and specialists in the conser-  vation of mural paintings - to these two countries,
4,29 We are convinced that the work undertaken in  Nubia calls for very great efforts and substantial  funds, We feel, however, that the task begun must  be completed at whatever cost. This is the first  occasion on which we have been engaged in such an  enormous international undertaking in the cultural  field. We have a great responsibility and we must  not allow thls campaign to fail, For this reason, we  trust that our Conference will give all due attention to  the campaign and we are particularly pleased that a  special working party has been set up for this purpose.
4,30 The Yugoslav delegation wishes to record its  satisfaction and approval at the inclusion in the agenda  of the draft convention on the various aspects of dis-  crimination in education.
4.31 Recent manifestations of racism, and the  bratal policy of racial discrimination pursued by the  Union of South Africa, which has, this very year,  shown its tragic consequences, prove that the struggle  against discrimination in all its forms {a unhappily  even more of an immediate problem than in the past  and that it is therefore right that Unesco should put  all the weight of its moral authority on the side of  those who, in the name of humanism, are fighting  against these things which are unworthy of humanity.  We therefore approve th: resolution and all the  measures adopted by the Executive Board in this  connexion.
4,32 The Yugoslav delegation 1s profoundly convinced  of the value of what Unesco has to do to bring the  peoples together and to foster all forms of international  co-operation, and it belleves that constructive effort  will be the keynote of the work of the eleventh session  of the General Conference, that that work being based  on a spirit of international understanding and modera-  tion, will create a favourable atmosphere for the  discussion of those questions of the hour with which  Unesco is concerned, that it will provide a modest  but useful example of constructive co-operation  among ths peoples.
5.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Before calling on the next speaker, I should like  to draw de'egates' attention to the report of the  General Committee concerning the inclusion of a new  item in the Conference's agenda - document 11 C/43.  The question will be included in the agenda of the  plenary meeting for tomorrow morning, Wednesday,
5.2 I call on H.E. Mr. Furukaki, Head of the  Japanese delegation.   XIII PLENARY
6.1 Mr, FURUKAKI (Japan) (Translation from the  French):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it 1s a very  great pleasure and honour to have this opportunity of  personally conveying the basic views of my Govern-  ment to the distinguished and enlightened members  of this assembly.
6.2 Next year, Japan will celebrate the tenth  anniversary of its admission to Unesco. I therefore  find it doubly satisfactory that Unesco should this  year be holding its General Conference in Paris,  where I am the permanent representative of my  country, so far away yet so close in spirit and in  mind to France,
6.3 I should like to pay a most sincere tribute to  France on this occasion, I am particularly happy  that our Conference has such a worthy President in  one of my esteemed Parle colleagues, the Ambassador  of Ethiopia, that noble country of Africa, a continent  full of hope and promise, from which several new  States have now joined us. 1 bld them welcome and  am certain that they will appreciate the mission  which is theirs hencefor vard as members of Unesco.  This, I am sure, will introduce a new phase in the  Organization! s activities.
6.4 Just two years ago, Unesco's new headquarters  welcomed its new Director-General. Our Organiza-  tion prepared to continue its work on a permanent  basis, though we should never forget the merits of  our predecessors nor their tireless efforts. At the  same time, great technical developments made it  possible to launch the first artificial earth satellites -  the prelude to a new cosmic era. We were entitled  to think that science, in the service of mankind,  could secure it happiness and prosperity. We thought  then that there could no longer be any question of a  war involving the destruction of the whole world and  we believed that Unesco's supreme duty was to  devote constant and effective efforts to the fulfilment  of that hope by turning the advances of science to  advantage.
6.5 Today's happenings, however, reveal that the  international situation has in no way improved. In  some parts of the world, many States are seeking a  nev, order and an improvement in their living standards -  unquestionably legitimate ambitions but ambitions  which sometimes bring with them disturbances and  unrest which inake one apprehensive for world peace.
6.6 Faced with this situation, Unesco, conscious  of its great mission, has to work steadfastly and  calmly for the solution of these problems.
6.7 But our house must not be too exposed to the  winds which blow outside. Unesco must make a true  appraisal of its practical possibilities, which are by  no means iimitless. Our house, moreover, is too  precious ana still very frail,
6.8 Today more than ever before, I believe, we  must reaffirm the principles of this Organization's  Constitut'on and remain above the turmoll of passing  unrest. These principles are the source of all  Unesco's activities and the very expression of the  consciousnesh of all mankind's desires.
6.9 I would like now to say a few words in connexion  vith the Proposed Programme and Budget for 1961-
1962. We must recognize with satisfaction the  advanced made and the results achieved in the past,  especially what has been done for the underdeveloped
206  MEETINGS  countries. The Report on the Appraisal of Unesco's  Programmes which was submitted to the Economic  and Social Council further strengthens our conviction  and, in this connexion, I should like to convey my  warmest congratulations to the Executive Board and  the Director-General, both of whom took part in  drawing up these documents.
6.10 At the tenth sehsion of the General Conference,  our delegation, it may be recalled, expressed its  satisfaction at the concentration and strengthening of  Unesco's programmes; and, in examining the  programme and budget for 1961-1962, we find that  still more has been done to make the preparation of  work more systematic.
6.11 The budget, drawn from the regular sources  and from substantially increased extra-budgetary  resources, has been perfectly balanced and ls  closely co-ordinated in structuré. Together with an  assurance of our general support, I should like once  more to convey my compliments to the Executive  Board and the Director-General, In our opinion, the  latter has carried out his high and very heavy  responsibilities with skill and success.
6.12 The substantial increase in extra-budgetary  resources will, cf course, mean a remarkable  development of Unesco's activities but, as the fields  eligible to benefit from these resources are limited,  certain quantitative changes in the scale of expenditure  will be unavoidable.
6.13 It is essential to balance the distribution of  funds derived from the two sources. On the one hand,  a new balance must be found between Unesco' a  regular activities and those which are financed from  special funds - and, in my opinion, this balance can  probably be achieved by increasing the proportion of  Unesco's budget which is allotted to activities not  benefiting from extra-budgetary resources.
6.14 On the other hand, it is no less essential to  achieve a balance between Unesco's work to deal  with problems of world-wide interest and the aid it  affords in response to urgent requests received from  individual regions.
6.15 The problem is to be seen at its clearest in the  educational field. So long as the development of edu-  cation remains one of the major, basic conditions  determining our Organization's action, it is only  natural that a good half of all the available resources  should be devoted to it. We therefore regard these  quantitative proportions as satisfactory. But the  increased efforts devoted to educational development  should not lead us to neglect quality < in other words,  we must not lose. sight of the importance in education  of thet international understanding and co-operation  which constitute Unesco's essential goal.
6.16 The project for extending the education pro-  gramme in the three regions of Latin America, Asla  and the Arab countries is welcomed by our country,  which, incidentally, has hid many years of experience  and results in this field. We can therefore assure  you of our ‘support and co-operation in this project.  I should like, however, to emphasize the urgency of  the project relating to the improvement of school  curricula and textbooka. I also note with pleasure  that, at the present stage of our civilization, it is of  prime importance, for the healthy development of  society and the State, that the rdle and significance  of university education should be given due recognition.   PLENARY
6,17 In the sphere of science, which offers infinite  possibilities for increasing the happiness of mankind  and improving living conditiona, Unesco should  provide scope for internatlonal co-operation in the  pursuit of progress, and it fs right that this Organt-  zation should concentrate alike on automation and on  tropical and arid zone ard oceanographic research,
6.18 Iam very happy to learn that a number of  important proposals have been made in this field,  which promise great advances in oceanography.  International co-operation in oceanographic research  is a problem with which we are greatly concerned.
6.19 We belleve that it is also essential to ensure  the progress of the sclences of man, which have  unquestionably lagged behind the natural sciences,  and to pay greater attention to social sclence  research, where many problems - such as the social  impact of discoveries in natural science - have not  yet been thoroughly studied.
6.20 I should like now to say a few words about the  East-West Major Project. Four years have already  passed since we enthusiastically adopted this project.  By reason of its very scope, there were those who  entertained some doubts about its success, and we  therefore feel great satisfaction today at the practical  contribution being made by many countries and the  very active way this project is being carried out, It  very truly gives a practical example of the unbreak-  able link between intellect and spirit, in other words  the basis of mutual international understanding - the  very aim of Unesco.
6.21 Among the new projects which have been sub-  mitted, I am particularly interested in the establish-  ment of a network of various research bodies. Such  a network would make it possible to speed up general  research on the different civilizations and, at the  same time, would facilitate different nitions' under-  standing of the authentic aspect of each civilization.  This question is of special importance in our part of  the world, in the East.
6.22 I have pleasure in informing you that, as a  contribution to this project, Japan is at present  making the necessary preparations for the setting up  of an East Asian Cultural Centre.
6.23 We are not only co-operating directly in  Unesco's projects but; on our own initiative and  alvays in the spirit of Unesco, we are organizing  meetings, conferencee and symposia. Lack uf time  prevents me from quoting the long lst of such  meetings and the many other activities which have  been undertaken in the same spirit,
6.24 I should like to mention in passing, however,  that we have already begun a serious study of the  desirability of seismological research. )
6.25 Finally, I should like to emphasize the vital  importance of exchanges of persons. The part they  play in the dissemination and exchange of information  is particularly important because they allow of  direct contacts and, as a result, they are parti-  cularly effective.
6.26 A French philosopher has most truly observed  that " nothing ls more wonderful than man". For my  part, I'believe this. That is why I earnestly hope for  a strengthening and expansion of the exchange of  persons programme in those fields which I have  mentioned, namely, the cultural, the scientific and  the educational,
6.27 In conclusion, gentlemen, I should like to  remind you of the ideas which inapired us and the  aspirations we cherished when we joined you. Once  again, on this occasion, we reaffirm our pledge to  the Unesco Constitution, On behalf of my delegation,
1 declare that the Government of Japan is firmly  reaolved never to slacken ita efforts for the fulfilment  of Unesco's work and aims,
6.28 It 1s my most fervent hope that this noble  institution, Unesco, through our sincere and constant  efforts, may be the deepest source of consolation and  comfort for the ideal and well-being of frail and  suffering humanity, living, as it does, under constant  threat.
7. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French);  I call on the Head of the delegation of the  Federation of Malaya.
8.1 Mr. ABDUL RAHMAN (Federation of Malaya):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, just two years  ago my country had the honour and privilege of being  accorded a very warm welcome when she took her  seat for the first time as a full member at the tenth  session of the General Conference of Unesco.
8.2 Today it is my pleasant duty and pleasure to  extend, on behalf of my Government, the same warm  welcome and greetings to those States newly admitted  as full members of Unesco, and also to the Associate  Members. This large increase in the membership,  particularly In the number of members from the  great continent of Africa, provides striking testimony  to the growing strength of Unesco and an answer to  those who doubt the universality of its character.
8.3 The members of my delegation and I were  greatly shocked at the opening of this Conference,  last Monday, to hear of the irreparable loss of two  of our most distinguished colleagues, H.E, Dr,  Pedro de Alba, the delegate of Mexico and a member  of the Executive Board, and Mr. Gaston Berger,  President of the French National Commission of  Unesco, To the Governments of Mexico and France  I express, on behalf of my Government and myself,  our condolence and deep sympathy.
8.4 Mr, President, as the aim of the General Con-  ference is to accomplish our business within the  shortest possible time, it is not my intention thie  afternoon to dwell on irrelevancies; I shall confine  myself to the few main observations made by my  Government on the Report of the Director-General on  the Activities of Unesco in 1958 and 1659, and -  interim report on the first eight months of 1960.
8.5 First of all [ should like to congratulate the  Director-General, who during his first term of  office has, with great imagination and vigour, seen  to it that all resolutions approved by the tenth session  of the General Conference in 1958 were successfully  translated into action. This achievement is a tribute  not only to the Director-General but also to the  Chairman and members of the Executive Board and  to the Secretariat.
8.6 True, the Federation of Malays has not recelved  a great deal of assistance as yet from Unesco, nor  does this mean that she does not require much help  and advice. It has been the policy of our Government  since our country became independent in 1957, to  draw up plans and prepare the necessary blueprints   Xm  for economic, social and educational improvements.  It is only when the plans are finalized that we shall  know what and where our greatest needs are.
8,7 We belleve that we have come to the stage  where ageistance from Unesco to help us to develop  technical and higher education will be most  appreciated.
8.8 In keaping with the purpose and spirit of the  plan drawn up ac Karachi, we have embarked on a  definite policy of full participation in this dynamic  and imaginative project, With effect from January
1962, free primary education will be provided for  all children in the Federation of Malaya, Further-  more, the school leaving age will be raised from 12  to 15 for every child who wants to benefit from a  secondary education. At the moment more than a  quarter of our revenue is expended on education and  it is evident that more money will be required when  our policy on primary and secondary education is  implemented in 1962,
8.9 We therefore note with satisfaction the strong  emphasis placed on education in the programme and  budget for the years 1961-1962, But, money alone  will not provide the full solution to problems  connected with the provision of primary education.  More urgently needed is ths training of teachers to  staff the schools, and therefore any measures  recommended to launch a vigorous programme of  teacher training will have the full support of the  Federation of Malaya.
8,10 We are also happy to note the attention paid to  the development of technical and vocational education.  In most “sountries of Asia the most urgent need today  is for idaustrialization, But industrialization cannot  be achieved without the necessary trained enginsers,  scientists, technologists and techniclans. My country  is confident that her needs in this particular field  will be fully considered by Uncsco and that the neces-  sary assistance, when sought, will bè given to her.
8.11 However, we are not content only to receive  aid from Unesco. We are proud to announce that,  since our independence in 1957, we have established  in our capital city, Kuala Lumpur, a Division of the  University of Malaya with the following faculties:  Arts, Science, Engineering and Agriculture. Our  country, situated in the humid tropical zone, affords  an ideal opportunity for research into all problems  connected with tropical areas, be they of science,  education or culture. My Government is only too  happy to welcome any experts who want to make full  use of our facilities and resources to carry out  research that will add to the sum total of knowledge  of the world,
8.12 In the field of culture end international  relationships, it is already well known to the whole  world that the most precious asset possessed by  Malaya is not its tin and rubber - though they are not  unimportant from the materialistic viewpoint - but  the art of living harmoniously together, developed by  its thrée main races of people: Malays, Chinese and  Indians, each with their own distinctive culture and  religion, yet sharing a common way of life character-  ized by the qualities of tolerance, understanding and  co-operation. Though the people that make up Malaya  are Asians, we do not completely isolate ourselves  from the good Influence of the West. The very fact  that we have 3,000 students in the United Kingdom.
208  PLENARY MEETINGS  alone, pursuing studies in higher fields of learning,  another 3,000 in Australia, and a few hundreds in the  United States of America, New Zealand, and other  countries, is a clear indication that we do appreciate  the cultural values of the West. What we hope to do  in the Federatlon of Malaya in the field of culture is  to achieve a synthesis of the best of the Fast with the  best of the West, so that from this fusion a vigorous  culture, Malayan in form but universal in content,  will emerge. My country will strive towards this  aim which is in conformity with the lofty ideals of  Unesco.
8.13 I should like to make one more observation.  In the immense programme prepared by Unesco for  the next two years there is, and rightly so, a marked  tendency towards reglonalization, I use the term  "rightly so" deliberately, because it is inevitable  that if Unesco is to render concrete assistance that  will meet the needs of the countries of a particular  geographical or cultural areca, regionalization would  be the natural development. Some harbour the fear  that regionalization might lead to fragmentation in  the structure of the Unesco programme. This fear  is quite unfounded because, as long as regional  projects form part of the overall programme of  Unesco, there is no danger that the universal aim of  Unesco, to strive for world peace and co-operation,  will be overlooked.
8.14 Mr, President, 1960 marks & turning point in  the march of Unesco, It has gone a long way since  its inception in 1945. The future of this world orga-  nization is bright and hopeful and the Federation of  Malaya shares this optimism with the Director-  General and all the other Member States. On behalf  of my Government, Mr. President, I wish this  eleventh session of the General Conference of Unesco  a still greater success than has been achieved in  the past.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H,E. Mr, Apithy, Head of the Dahomey  delegation.
10.1 Mr, APITHY (Dahomey) (Translation frem  the French):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a  great honour for my delegation to be received, a few  months after Dahomey's accession to independence,  within the great family of nations and to take its  place here today as a Member State of Unesco. I  should like to convey to you all the gratitude we feel.  We are not, of course, unknown to your assembly:  we have often taken part, as members of the delega-  tions of the French Republic, in the work of inter-  national organizations, We did so, for instance, last  February, at the Addis Ababa Conference, while,  last May, in our own country, we prepared the  Cotonou conference on the access of women to  education.
10.2 But this is the first occasion on which we have  taken part in the General Conference as the only  spokesmen for our own needs. And this accounts for  the extent of our inexperience which, I am confident,  you will be willing to excuse.
10.3 Dahomey is a small country with a population  of less than 2 million, and was long regarded as the  " Latin Quarter" of West Africa, since the quantitative   PLENARY  and qualitative level of its schooling enabled it to be  an "exporter of civil servants and senlor staff",
10,4 Some 30% of our children attend school, and  the number of girls, especially in the urban schools,  is tending slowly but surely to equal that of boys.
10.5 Our secondary education system is expanding  and at the same time is being decentralized through  the establishment, in the larger centres, of comple-  mentary courses adapted to local needs. The number  of our students enrolled in the university faculties of  France or Dakar gives us assurance that our higher  civil service will speedily be " Africanized" - an  operation in which our prime consideration has been  to maintain standards of quality.
10.6 In comparison with other countries, our  situation may therefore be regarded as fayourable;  but these results, achieved at the cost of tremendous  sacrifices which we cannot possibly increase, are  constantly endangered because of the increase of  population which, in recent years, in Dahomey as  everywhere else, has been considerable,
10.7 In order to keep up our present standards at  all stages of education, we shall for a long time to  come need the assistance which France has always  provided without stint.
10,8 If we are to move forward and give some  elementary instruction to the great body of our adult  illiterates, so that they can satisfactorily discharge  their duties as citizens; to provide primary school  facilities for more than 300,000 poor children who  still have no opportunity for such education; to  build the 6,000 or so classrooms that we need; to  train the 6,000 teachers who are required; and to  train the intermediate and senior staff which our  young nation heeds, we stand in urgent need of aid  such as only Unesco is able to provide.
10,9 The programme of action in Tropical Africa  outlined by the Assistant Director-General, which  our representatives helped to draw up at Addis Ababa,  seems to us to be the best starting point for the action  planned. But we fear that this action may already be  too limited.
10.10 For Unesco, as for other international  organizations, 1960 seems likely to be Africa's year -  or better, perhaps, 1960 seeme to mark the beginning  of an African era for the enrichment of world culture.  A large number of resolutions, vying with each other  in generosity, are evidence that our situation has  been rightly evaluated and that substantial resources  will be made available to assist us,
10.11 Nevertheless, 1 am afraid that these resources  may preve inadequate in view of the seriousness of  the situation. An exceptional situation requires  exceptional measures,
10.12 Education may be an activity which has not  yet been speeded up by automation but it is none the  less necessary to adapt new teaching methods, both  more economical and ylelding a quicker return, to  our present local conditions as speedily as possible.
10.13 If we are to avoid the mistakes and the process  of trial and error which we cannot afford, we must be  informed about the successful experiments already  made by young States which achieved independence  before ourselves. :
10.14 Your action must therefore be, first and  foremost, directed towards educational research,  information and documentation. Action should next  MEETINGS Xm  take the form of technical assistance: the provision  of experts, the training of planners, administrators  and teachers; the adaptation of curricula and  textbooks for the various stages of education. If such  technical assistance {8 worked out with sufficient  realism, the first result should be a noteworthy im-  provement in the standard of our teachers, and at the  same time, in the standard of the various courses  they give. In this connexion, incidentally, we have  submitted detailed cbservations to the various com-  mittees in whose work we have been privileged to  take part.
10.15 Your investment or financial policy should,  where we are concerned, be still more extensive and  generous, It is the corollary to your technical  assistance. For instance, we need buildings - our  situation in this respect is sometimes catastrophic.  We need textbooks, audio-visual aids, both for school  and for adult education, And funds are urgently  needed for the training of teachers for secondary,  technical and higher cducational establishments and  of staff for teacher training schools.
10.16 I have given you, Mr, President, ladies and  gentlemen, the merest sketch of our enormous needs  and I am somewhat embarrassed at being able to  bring you so little in return.
10,17 Dahomey offers proof of what, within the  limits of its modest means, it has already done in  respect of education, Although already sharing in  the humanism that French culture, to which, it must  be acknowledged, Dahomey owes so much, has  instilled in the country, we now offer to all men our  own equally vital and original culture and art. This  culture and this art are the products of an ancient  national history which we intend shall continue.  Dahomey brings you the traditional African wisdom  which the modern world so greatly needs. It brings  you its goodwill, which is considerable, its love of  peace, which is no less so, its desire to encourage  and promote international understanding so as to  assist Unesco in reaching {ts goal - the advent of a  world community of men and nations from the five  continents of the globe in the service of peace and  progress.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call on H.E. Mr, Kiselev, Head of the delegation  of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic.
12.1 Mr. KISELEV (Byélorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr, President and fellow delegates, in discussing  Unesco's programme and budget for 1961-1962, the  delegation of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic would like to make a few observations on  principles, and a few proposals and recommendations  to our Organization and its ‘governing bodies.
12.2 The Byelorussian people, like all the peoples  of the Soviet Union, are sincerely interested in the  achievement of the noble ideals of peace, international  co-operation and mutual understanding, set forth in  Unesco's Constitution.
12.3 "Only under conditions of lasting peace," as  Nikita Sergeevich Khrushchev said in his message to  the General Conference, " can there be really fruitful  collaboration between scientists, cultural workers  and educators in all countries, for the solution of
209   XII PLENARY  the many serious problems facing mankind."
12.4 While recognizing that there are several  constructive features in Unesco's work, we never-  theless consider that the Organization is failing to  take account, in its aciivities, of the enormous  changes that have taken place in international life in  the last fifteen years, It has not become a genuinely  universal organization. As a result of the opposition  of imperialist forces, the People's Republic of China,  the German Democratic Republic, the Democratic  People's Republic of Korea, the Mongolian People's  Republic and the Democratic Republic of Viet-Nam  are not yet represented {in Unesco. Many lacge  democratic internat'mnal organizations do not have  consultative status with Unesco, although these  countries and organizations have shown their desire  to co-operate with Unesco.
12.5 The programme of general and complete dis-  armament, proposed by the Soviet Government, is  in line with the interests of educational, scientific  and cultural development and with the hopes of all  the progressive sections :f mankind, Unesco is  bound for the purposes of educational, scientific and  cultural development, to promote the attainment of  practical results in this field. Who can fall to see  that the prohibition of thermonuclear armaments,  the cessation of the production of all types of weapons,  the disbanding of armies and the destruction of  ar:naments in all countries would make it possible to  outlaw war and would promote universal peace, i.e,  the most essential condition for the educational,  sclentific and cultural development of all nations?
12.6 It is well known that the armaments race  places a heavy burden on the shoulders of the peoples.  The ending of the armaments race would release  enormous sums for purposes of education, science  and culture, for the elimination of the effects of  colonialism, for literacy work, and for dealing with  the economic and cultural backwardness of many  parts of the world. The armaments race causes  strain in the international situstion, drives peace to  the brink of war, and interferes with the normal  work of organizations such as Unesco. It is known  that, with the active help of imperialist circles in  Western Germany, plans for revenge are being  matured and a huge army, which they are seeking to  provide with atomic and hydrogen weapons is being  built up. .
12.7 All this greatly disturbs the Byelorussian  people, who, together with the other peoples of the  Soviet Union, suffered enormous losses in the bloody  battle against Fascism during the last war, The  fiery devastation of war and the Fascist occupation  of Byelorussia cost more than 2 million human lives,  or over 20% of the population of the Republic, and  thrust back the economy of Soviet Byelorussia to the  level of 1913. In our country there is not one family  that does not still mourn the loss of relatives and  friends during that war. It is for this reason that  we are so deeply disturbed by the attempts to place  weapons of mass destruction in the hands of the  brigands who, as Hitler's generals, carried out  scorched earth tactics some fifteen to twenty years  ago. The conscience of all humanity cannot accept  the arms race and the resurgence of militarism,  Nazism and revanchism in Western Germany and  other countries.  MEETINGS
12,8 We cannot shirk, nor have we the moral right  to shirk, the problem of disarmament. The future  authority of thie international organization will  depend on how the present session of the General  Conference treats the key problem of our times, the  question of ensuring international peace and security.  Either it will raise its voice with all its strength in  favour of the struggle for peace among nations and  thereby fulfil its basic function as an instrument of  peace and peaceful coexistence and enhance its  authority in the eyes of all the nations of the world,  or else it will turn from the main problem of the day  to petty questions and general discussions and thereby  dash the hopes of all the nations and undermine its  own authority.
12.9 The delegation of the Byelorussian Soviet  Socialist Republic supports the draft resolution  submitted by the Soviet Union delegation at this  session of the General Conference concerning Unesco!  contribution to disarmament, We also firmly support  the proposal that the General Conference condemn  revanchism and Fascism as the source of the threat  of another war. All peoples are vitally concerned  with the prevention of war. Peaceful coexistence  and co-operation between States regardless of their  social and economic structure is a burning necessity  for all peoples of this planet. The only alternative  is a thermonuclear war and the destruction of human  lives and the cultural values created over the  centuries.
12,10 In this connexion, the Soviet Union draft  resolution on peaceful coexistence and co-operation  will enable Unesco to make Îts contribution towards  protecting human culture from thermonuclear  disaster, The acceptance of this draft resolution by  Unesco would be a timely way of meeting its statutory  obligations and the needs of contemporary life.
12.11 Mr. President and fellow delegates, one blot  on the face of humanity is the existence of colonial-  ism, which detracts from the dignity and rights of  man. Over one hundred million people still languish  in colonial bondage in various paris of the world.  The monopolistic alliances of the capitalist States  exploit the colonial peoples, exporting uranium, gold,  diamonds, cotton and petrol, and leaving the indigenous  inhabitants prey to poverty, illiteracy and disease.  But history has already jassed merciless judgement  on colonialism. It will inevitably collapse under the  pressure of the national liberation movement bearing  on ite banners the watchwords of peace and unity -  the watchwords of Bandung and Accra.
12,12 It should be Unesco's duty to help bring avout  a reduction in the length of time and processes of  liberation of the peoples from colonialism, However,  the Unesco Secretariat, by its actions in the Congo,  has adopted a position of supporting the colonizers.  Unesco's mission to the Congo, the secret negotia-  tions of Unesco officials directed against the legiti-  mate government of Lumumba, the dispatch of  Belgian teachers to the Congo, the ignoring of Soviet,  Czechoslovak and other specialists, as well as other  facts, all indicate the improper rôle played by the  Unesco Secretariat.
12,13 Today the United Kingdom representative  asserted (if his words were interpreted correctly)  that events in the Congo had demonstrated that the  granting of independence to the Congolese people was   PLENARY  premature. But you must agree, gentlemen, that  this assertion 1s actually aimed against the granting  of independence to the colonial nations, The granting  of independence to colonial countries and peoples is  never premature. It is more correct to maintain  the opposite, that it has been late in coming, by  many years in fact, and hence it is now an act which  cannot be deferred.
12.14 Unesco's task consists in condemning the  colonialist ambitions of the monopolistic countries  and in promoting In every possible way the attainment  of independence by the nations which have taken the  road of independent development. 1t is unpleasant,  particularly within the walls of an international  organization like oura, to hear arguments to the  effect that the liberation of any people from the  colonial yoke is premature,
12.15 Our delegation warmly supports the Soviet  Union proposal that the present session of Unesco  should adupt a resolution concerning the grant of  independence to colonial countries and peoples. 1  would go further and say that Unesco should not only  fight actively for the immediate grant of freedom to  the colonial peoples but should assist in trying to get  the colonial powers to hand back part of the plunder  they have taken from their former colonies.
12,16 In order that the liberated peoples should be  conscious of receiving tangible aid, there will have  to be a considerable flow of funds to thoge countries.  Unesco does not have these funds at its disposal.  This is why the draft resolution submitted here  concerning the restoration by the imperialist powers  to former colonies of part of the resources plundered  from them {is just, and meets the essential needs of  the countries liberated from colonialism as regards  the development of education, science and culture.  It is pleasant to note that many delegations support  this proposal, Our sympathies also lie with the  herole Cuban people fighting for their national  independence and freedom, We whole-heartedly  support the proposal concerning non-intervention  by any State in the internal affairs of Cuba,
12.17 Unesco does not at present reflect a true  picture of the contemporary world. The facts are  as follows: the Soclalist world, under whose banner  more than 1,000 million people have already rallied,  is firmly established on this globe. Another 1,500  million people have thrown off the colonial yoke and  have formed an extensive zone of neutralist States.  There also exists the world where monopoly capital  prevails, It is regrettable to note, however, that a  bias exists in Unesco activities, in the work of the  Director-General, the Executive Board and the  Secretariat; the Secretariat staff at present consists  mainly of peopfe who in practice carry out the policy  of the Western States, The post of Director-General  is occupied by the representative of a country  belonging to NATO, and the fact that the Secretariat  acts in a one-sided manner is hardly fortuitous.
12.18 We feel that one man acting in the rôle of  Director-General cannot objectively reflect the  interests of the Socialist countries, the countries of  the Western bloc and the group of neutralist countries.  The time has come when, instead of the post of  Director-General, a collective executive organ  should be set up, as indicated by the Soviet Union  delegation, consisting of three persons representing  MEETINGS Xm  the Socialist countries, the neutralist countries and  the monopoly capitalist countries respectively.
12.19 Fair geographical representation has to be  achieved in the Uneaco Secretariat, in which some  regions of the world are almost totally unrepresented.  It does not, for example, include a single representa-  tive from the Byelorussian SSR. Fair geographical  representation of contributors should also be ensured  in all Unesco publications; the circle of contributors  should represent all States.
12.20 The proposal to change Unesco's structure  is posited by life itself, by common sense, by the  concern for strengthening Unesco's influence in the  work of consolidating peace and developing education,  aclence and culture, It is incumbent upon Unesco to  promote the development of education, science and  culture of all peoples in every way, and without  discrimination of any kind,
12.21 Unesco should not ignore, but is in duty  bound to disseminate widely, rather, the experlence  of the Socialist countries in the fields of educational,  scientific and cultural development. The nations  which have chosen the Socialist road of development  are setting the whole world an example of high speed  economic progress, a steady rise in general pros-  perity, the flowering of national cultures, genuine  creative freedom, the flowering of the human  personality, and friendship between nations, This  is clearly demonstrated in the case of Soviet  Byelorussia, Up to the time of the Great Socialist  October Revolution in 1917, Byelorussia lagged  behind Tsarist Russia in economic and cultural  development, Over 80% of the population was  illiterate, and there was not a single higher educa-  tional establishment in existence.
12,22 It was only as a result of the victory of the  Socialist revolution in Russia and the establishment  of Soviet power that the Byelorussian people achieved  its Statehood and, with the fraternal aid of the great  Russian people and other peoples of the Soviet Union  transformed its Republic into a country with à hignly  developed industry and agriculture and an advanced  level of culture. Byelorussia's industrial output  this year will be 35 times the 1913 figure and nearly
4 1/2 times that for the pre-war year of 1940. As  far as agricultural and industrial output pér head of  the porulation is concerned, Byelorussia is ahead of  many capitalist countries both in Europe and America.  For example, more metal cutting lathes are produced  per 1,000 inhabitants than in the United States of  America, the United Kingdom, France and Japan,  more lorries than in Austria and Italy, and more  tractors than in the United Kingdom, France, the  Federal Républic of Germany and Italy. Our  industrial products are now being exported to over
30 countries, the roain items including tractors,  automobiles and machine tools.
12.23 The Republiè has been transformed into a  completely literate country, covered by a dense  network of elementary schools, secondary schools  and higher educational establishments, and hiis  developed ita own genuinely national intelligentsia,  In the 25 higher educational establishments and the  hundreds of specialized secondary schools, skilled  and semi-skilled workers are being trained for all  branches of national agriculture and culture: engin-  eers, agronomists, doctors, teachers, economists,
211   Xu PLENARY  artists and writers, More students per 10,000  inhabitants are enrolled in the higher educational  establishments in Byelorussia than in any capitalist  country in Europe. Considering only those specialists  with higher educational qualifications, more than
100,000 are today employed in the Republic’ anatlonal  economy. Byelorussia has an Academy of Sciences,  an Academy of Agricultural Science and more than  one hundred scientific research institutes and labo-  ratories, and its scientists are carrying out extensive  research work of vital theoretical and economic  significance.
12.24 There have also been notable successes in  Byelorussian literature and art, More than 16  million volumes were published in 1959: one Minsk  printing house alone produced more than 130,000  copies of books a day, or far more than a whole  year's output by the entire Byelorussian printing  industry in pre-revolutionary days. There are more  than 20,000 public libraries in Byelorussia supplying  books to every family in both town and country. The  Byelorussian worker enjoys free medical treatment,  is provided with a wide network of rest homes and  sanatoria, and has a 6-7 hour working day. Our  people has access to all the riches of contemporary  art and culture, cultural universities, national  theatres, art museums and 80 on,
12.25 The Republic has extensive scientific and  cultural links with many countries. At this moment,  in Minsk, the Byelorussian capital, there are hosts  of foreign tourists. Our city is an interesting and  beautiful one, and I believe I am not wrong in saying  that anyone of you, on seeing our city, would speak  well of it. It was rebullt fifteen years ago, after  the war: during the war, it was 90% destroyed by  the occupying Fascist forces. Foreigners ask us  how we succeeded in resurrecting a new city from  the ashes in such an incredibly short time. You  Communists, they say, possess some sort of secret.  But the secret is simple: the Socialist system, the  friendship of the peoples of our great fatherland -  this is the inexhaustible source of the strength and  creative energy of Soviet men and women.
12,26 Affairs are going very well in our country.  Life is becoming richer and more cultured day by  day; we are proud of our achievements, and willingly  share our experience with other peoples, Bright  prospects lie ahead for us, we have faith in tomorrow.  As sincere fighters for peace and peaceful co-opera-  tion, we propose competition in the development of  education, science and culture in the interests of the  civilization of all mankind, In the fraternal family  of nations of the Soviet Union, the Byelorussian people  is engaged in peaceful constructive labour and is  successfully translating the great objectives of its  Seven-Year Plan into reality.
12.27 Ladies and gentlemen, the General Conference  has very important questions before it for considera-  tion. They muet be resolved in the interests of  international peace and security. Unesco must work  out its programme of activities in the realistic light  of the contemporary international situation, concen-  trating its attention not on secondary and insignificant  nrojects but on the basic problems involved in the  promotion of peace and the development of education,  science and culture throughout the world.
12,28 The delegation of the Byelorussian SSR
212  MEETINGS  declares that it will co-operate in every way in order  to ensure that Unesco's activities strictly correspond  with the high aims of its Constitution, in the interests  of international peace and security. We hope that  Unesco will be the first of the Unlted Nations  Specialized Agencies to take account of the real  position existing in the international arena. May the  hopes of the nations which look forward to effective  action by Unesco in the service of peace, education,  culture, science and prosperity not be disappointed!
12.29 The Byelorussian people, together with ali  the peoples of the Soviet Union and all the countries  in the Socialist camp, will continue to fight unremit-  tingly for international peace and security, for  general and complete disarmament, for solid co-  operation in the field of education, science and  culture, and for the final liquidation of the shameful  colonial system, in line with its policy, flowing from  the very nature of Communism and the lofty principles  of Marxist-Leninist teachings.
13. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call on H.E. Mr. Dieng, Head of the delegation  of Senegal.
14.1. Mr. DIENG (Senegal) (Translation from the  French);  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks  ago, the Republic of Senegal was officially accepted  into the great family of the United Nations, and its  international political sovereignty is now established  on the plane of civilization and culture by its partici-  pation in Unesco.
14,2 I should like to convey to all members of this  distinguished gathering the thanks of the Senegalese  people, which is proud to swell the ranks of those  nations whose noble ideal it is to work unceasingly  in the interest of the fundamental freedoms of the  mind.
14,3 These fundamental freedoms are intimately  linked to the essential values which constitute civili-  zation, and the development of education is unquestion-  ably one of the noblest and surest means of forcing  back misery and ignorance. The struggle against  ignorance must be pursued until re-education is  complete throughout the world, just as the fight must  be waged against those endemic diseases and epi-  demics whose ravages are unhappily only too well  known. At the height of the French Revolution,  Danton affirmed that education, next to bread, was  what the people most needed, and this is a truth  which has eternal validity.
14,4 When the Abbé Dard opened the first school in  Senegal in St, Louis in 1816, he chose to use the  vernacular as the language of instruction. He made  this decision in accordance with his sensibility, so as  to avoid divorcing the children from their family,  their race and their past. He was probably moved  by considerations of common sense, and argued that  learning in a foreign language meant entering a  world of uncertain realities. He probably also  argued that the language of the lieart and of truth is  the one which children learn from their own people,  and that it would be contrary to all reason to replace  the humble local speech by the incantatory rites of a  universal language reputed to be the most rational  language in the world. The work undertaken by this   PLENARY  good man ended in failure, despite the wisdom and  love which he devoted to it, It left out of account the  passionate unreasonableness of a people eager to  puraue the mass migrations of conquest of African  man in the realm of the intellect and of culture. It  likewise left out of account the fact that this African  man aspired to change his status from that of a  person explored into that of an explorer, to take  part himself in the glorious conquest of the unknown  with all the means provided by modern culture and  especially the French language. The result is that  this language, the means and the instrument of our  emancipation and subsequently of our independence,  was not imposed on us by a conqueror's will but was  desired by us - was conquered by us, I would say.
14.5 Far from alienating us from ourselves, this  language enabled us the better to find ourselves, to  find our place in the world scheme, and to enrich  modern culture with the newly expressed concept of  "negritude' . Out of gratitude for the past no less  than for future needs, we consider ourselves com-  mitted to its defence within the framework of che  French linguistic community.
14.6 Like every national language, French is for  us the primary instrument of our unity and freedom.  Was it not, la fact, the French school which forged  our national unity, and ia it not ultimately thanks to  the teaching of that school that we have achieved  independence in dignity and order? The work of the  French school in Senegal deserves a public tribute,  and among our often unhappy memories as a former  colonial people, as in our faith of a revealed humanity,  the humble French schoolmaster stands out as a  dedicated man who taught us to read, to think, to  teach our own children, to administer the State.  France can justly be proud of its educational work  in Senegal.
14.7 Our school system, dating back to 1816 and  initiated by the Ploermel Friars in St, Louis-du-  Sénégal, a town which to this day has retained the  grandeur and richness of its past, gradually spread  to the rest of the country. Progress was slow,  admittedly, and in 1950 there were still only 24, 000  pupils. But from that date onward, under the influence  of the generous ideas of the Brazzaville Conference  which preceded and prepared autonomy, followed by  independence, the rate of school enrolment increased.  There were 80,000 pupils in 1956, 94,000 in 1958,
107,000 in 1959 and 125,000 in 1960. In ten years  the number of Senegalese children attending school  had increased fivefold.
14.8 This quantitative development has reduced the  scope of elementary ignorance; it has undoubtedly  facilitated understanding and co-operation between  black and white in practical everyday activities, but  it still does not give a complete idea of the breadth  and boldness of the work done to provide a human-  istic education aimed at producing the ordinary,  decent African of the Twentieth century.
14.9 In addition to the primary school, Senegal has
14 general and technical lycées and almost as many  private secondary schools, Some 15,000 pupils  attend these institutions where the staff, standards,  curricula and examinations are similar in every way  to those of French institutions.
14.10 This gives an indication not only of the  quality of the education provided but also of the deter-
213  MEETINGS  xin  mination to reject any dangerously tempting formula  of education " on the cheap" which would produce  nothing more than a sort of superficial veneer liable  to peel away quickly and lacking any possible future.
14,11 The pupils trained under our present educa-  tional system join the ranks of the intermediate  trained staffs or go on to higher education in the  faculties and " grandes écoles" of France. They  likewise, and above all, go on to the University of  Dakar - previously the eighteenth university of  France and today the first university of Senegal.
14.12 It {3 true that there are a number of carpers  who are disturbed by so great an expansion of any  education other than primary or purely practical -  as if the wise course for countries aspiring to greater  enlightenment would be to remain in a state of  ignorance which would encourage colonization of all  kindsl As far as education is concerned, Senegal,  like every other country represented here, conaiders  boldness to be a safer bet than misguided prudence.  It does not believe that economic fears are any  reason for imposing limitations on the development  of the mind: there can be no question of forcing the  mind to submit to economic considerations.
14.13 But ff the mind cannot be treated as an  element in an equation, that does not mean to say  that it can ignore the facts of life. At all levels of  our secondary and higher education, technical train-  ing institutions prepare the staffs and specialists of  a nation conscious of {ts precise possibilities in all  fields of activity. There are numerous openings for  our students. First of all, the technical assistance  staff generously provided by France has to be  replaced; it still occupies 2,000 positions requiring  high qualifications, Next, intermediate staff has to  be created to form an economic and administrative  framework, the effectiveness of which will increase  in line with the country's new needs,
14,14 1 am afraid though, that I have painted too  optimistic a picture of the educational situation in  Senegal. To be accurate, the still surviving shadows  must be added. The desire to maintain the high  quality of primary education, for instance, has  prevented us from providing all children with the  schooling to which they are entitled, So far, the  primary schools have made a point of selecting the  élite groups which Senegal so urgently needs; it now  remains to provide them as rapidly as possible with  the means of educating the mass of future citizens.
14.15 In order to reach this goal and respect the  fundamental right to education - in order, in other  words, to provide all Senegalese children with  schooling - we must build and equip 8,000 new classes  between 1960 and 1970. This means recruiting a  minimum of 8,000 qualified teachers at the level of  the end of the first secondary cycle to ensure that  they are thoroughly integrated into their work and  provide appropriate and hence effective instruction,  they will be trained in their own regions, in the  actual environment in which they are to teach.
14.16 But these 8,000 teachers who are needed  entail an increase in the number of pupils with inter-  mediate qualifications produced by the first secondary  cycle. An adequate parallel expansion of this level  of education must therefore be assured.
14,17 But while Senegal is prepared to make the  necessary financial sacrifices to build, equip and   Xi PLENARY  operate these 8,000 new classes, it cannot simultan-  eously carry out the correlated development of other  branches of education, It is an underdeveloped  country which already devotes more than 10% of its  budget to education, and secondary staff is due to  double in number even before universal education is  achieved in Senegal. Meanwhile it is already  obvious that most of our schools, housed in buildings  which are as decrepit as they are unsuitable, must  be reconstructed. In addition, they are all concen-  trated in the coastal area, so that a number of  children are condemned from the time they enter the  lycée to an uprooting which is socially regrettable  becuuse it is often permanent. Secondary education,  and especially the first cycle, must therefore be  regionalized.
14.18 This regionalization is essential, in any  case, if we are to ensure the development of the  regions of the interior where the technicians and  officials necessary for new actlvities are to settle,  Our plan envisages the reconstruction or construction  of eight lycées or collèges with a full cycle of  instruction and thirteen continuation schools. In  addition, technical sections or schools will be set up  which will supplement the general training already  received by appropriate vocational training.
14.19 It is quits clear that Senegal cannot by itself  develop its secondary education, given the effort  needed for primary education, and a large-scale  appeal will therefore have to be made for technical  assistance of every kind. In particular, we shall  call upon Unesco, and its Special Fund, when it  comes to equpping our schools.
14,20 1 would undoubtedly feel some aversion from  making these requests were I not sure of keeping  within the bounds of the possible. But the facts are  there, The University of Dakar, a French-speaking  Senegalese university, is the crown of our educational  system, the success of which it already attests. True  to its motto - " Lux mea lex" - as demonstrated by  its vitality, by its roots in African soll, by its impact  in the modern world, by the welcome which it  extends to scientists and researchers from every  land, the University of Dakar, that munificent bequest  from France, is a token of all that Senegal can contri-  bute to the enrichment of the human spirit. And it  also proves that Senegal, while asking and receiving,  is also capable of giving, and thereby contributing  honourably and in full awareness of its place in the  comity of nations, to world civilization - the synonym  of peace, happiness, prosperity and continous  advancement for all men of goodwill.
14.21 We shall take full part, therefore, in the  feast of life, without any feeling of being unwanted or  uninvited guests, and in this way, we shall match up  to the legitimate hope which the modern world places  on us. Difficulties will arise, of course - of that we  are sure; but, like true followers of Prometheus,  seeking to rob the god of his secrets for the benefit  of man, our failures will but serve to strengthen our  faith in the future.
14,22 We shall not despair because some of our  dreams have failed to materialize, and we, too, will  cry to triumphant Zeus that not all our flowers have  blossomed, for another spring will bring forth other  flowers. At this feast of the spirit, spring-like and  flower bedecked, the tiers-monde, gentlemen, :  MEETINGS
214  will not have failed to don its wedding garment.  The PRESENT (Translation from the French):  I call on H.E. Mr. Anas, Head of the delegation  of Afghanistan.
16.1 Mr. ANAS (Afghanistan):  Mr. President, lddies and gentlemen, our dele-  gation is happy to attend this eleventh session of the  General Conference in Paris, in an atmosphere of  such cordial French hospitality. We are grateful to  the French Government for the assistance it gener-  ously provides to Unesco and for its assistance to  the cause of universal culture and civilization. We  are happy to meet here outstanding representatives  of educational, scientific and cultural spheres from  all over the world. We enjoy seeing old friends and  making new acquaintances with our colleagues from  different countries, In addition to the discussion and  drafting of the general programme of Unesco!'s acti-  vities for the next two years, this Conference gives  us the opportunity of enlarging our field of co-opera-  tion by establishing new contacts between delegations,  and also of studying recent developments in the  French system of education, science and culture.
16.2, France has always been, and is now, one of  the leading pioneers of civilization, We are very  much interested in making a closer study of her  latest progress. Throughout the programme of  Unesco as presented to this Conference, we consider  that greater emphasis is placed on the planification  of education and its integration into the general plan-  ning of economic and social development. This is  perfectly in line with the spirit of the planning which
18 undertaken successfully by our Government, and  it makes for the success of Unesco's programme  because it enables the Member States to be more  efficiently responsive to the work of Unesco and  because it provides a basis for evaluation. Otherwise  the work of Unesco would remain isolated and could  not be assimilated properly in national development  as a whole. -
16,3 Planification involves the order of priorities  and, in consequence, wiser employment of means  and materials. Underdeveloped countries are conse-  quently engaged to concentrate their effort in certain  projects which are vital to their economic develop-  ment. To achieve this concentration they must give  up certain less urgent plans, although none the less  important. In some of the Member States the enrol-  ment in secondary schools is so low that it represents  a major impediment to their economic development  and they must divert funds from primary education  to meet this deficiency. We are glad to note that  assistance is provided in the programme to help in  such situations. Still, this does not solve the  problem of universal and free primary education.
16.4 The report on needs of primary education of  the Karachi meeting shows very clearly that the  necessary action could not be undertaken solely on  the basis of a national budget and should be financed  on a much larger scale by internationally established  sources, Action should be taken of course, within  the possibilities of the various countries, to imple-  ment the recommendation of the Karachi conference,  The rôle of the school as a centre of community  development should be emphasized throughout primary   PLENARY MEETINGS  education in Asia. This is the way to link the exten-  sion and improvement of primary education even  more closely with the whole of the educational  systems and to integrate it with the economic and  social development of the country concerned.
16.5 Teacher training is another probleri. The  social and economic status of teachers is not attract-  ive and all possible means should be used to make  the profession morally, and to a certain extent  materially, inviting, Unesco's programme includes  such aims, The establishment of a community  school system would improve both the social and  economic status of teachers, In addition, we should  realize that teacher training programmes lag far  behind the increase of the school population and it  is feared that in the years to come this gap will grow  larger. To be realistic, we must admit that we  shall have to deal with the problem of untrained ana  underqualified teachers for many years to come.  Why are we not recognizing this crucial fact? Why  does Unesco not undertake to develop practical ways  and means of helping these large groups of teachers  in the underdeveloped areas? Proper studies should  be made to produce teaching materials, methods,  teacher guides, audio-visual aids, etc., to ‘enable  non-qualified teachers to improve their work, to  ‘mprove themselves and their teaching system,  This should be a transitional measure, but I am  afraid it will need to be maintained for a rather long  transitional period which involves the fate of millions  of schoolchildren.
16.6 We approve of Unesco's programme of teach-  ing and research at the univeraity level - the teaching  of basic scientific knowledge and the methods of  classification, investigation and evaluation for the  better utilization and conservation of natural  resources. In providing assistance {n the establish-  ment and improvement of institutions for higher  technological education and research, due regard  should be paid to the co-ordination of applied tech-  nical and scientific research projects with the work  of the universities, espectally in underdeveloped  countries. The establishment of relations between  the universities and these institutions and the pcoling  of available facilities would enlarge the field of  research of the universities and better adjust its  system of education to scientific and technological  needs. It would also avoid duplication and contribute  to a planned economy in higher education. Unesco,  through its experts, could be instrumental in creating  and maintaining such contacts between Unesco  projects and national and bilateral projects. Helping  to establish such co-operation and putting it into  operation would be a further test of Unesco's  effectiveness. =
16,7 Mr. President, fellow delegates, 1 have  presented a summary of the opinion of our delegation  regarding Unesco's programme for the next biennium.  We shall express our opinion in greater detail when  particular items are discussed in the Commissions.  We would also like to express our gratitude to the  Secretariat of Unesco for the work it has done in  the preparation of the documents for this Conference.
17. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call on H.E. Mr. Arbab, Head of the delegation  of the Sudan, -
18.1 Mr. ARBAB (Sudan);  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it 1s two  years since I had the pleazure of addressing you at  the tenth session of the General Conference, but the  picture of those memorable meetings is still vivid in  my mind, At that time Unesco had just moved into  these wonderful premises, and this lofty hall in  which we assemble was used by the General Confer-  ence for the first tinie, Fascinated as we all were  by the appearance and atmosphere of this imposing  new building, we expressed our confidence that the  installation of the Secretariat in such pleasant  surroundings was more than the physical transfer  from one place to another. Now it is evident that the  move to the new house has marked a turning point in  the history of the Organization.
18,2 Those of us who were here at the previous  session will also recall the great enthusiasm with  which the present Director-General, Dr. Veronese,  was received, Great hopes and confidence were  expressed that increasing progress would be achieved  in the promotion of education, science and culture  under his wise leadership.
18.3 Mr, President, great as may have been the  achievements In the last two years, the admission  into this Organization of 16 new Member States is,  perhaps, the most remarkable. No one can be happier  than myself, as the representative of an Africen  country, to express to them heartfelt congratulations  and to welcome them on this historic occision. { am  sure that they are all coming ferward with the virility  of youth being initiated into manhood, to be admitted  as active and worthy members of the international  community, These nations, forming probably the  biggest group ever to be admitted on one occasion in  the history of the Organization, bring with them new  experience, new ideas, new ideals and new cultural  values which help to widen the scope of the activities  of the Organization and give force to its whole mission  by making it, in practice, even more universal than  it has been until now.
18,4 The African nations realize more than any  other peoples that there is a living world conscience  upon which they have relied in their struggle for  independence. Disappointments and injustices have  existed, and no doubt do still exist here and there,  but they will not blind our eyes to what international  co-operation has achieved. This conception accounts  for the confidence of African States in Unesco, in  which they seek a symbol of world conscience. In  joining the Organization with such conviction, the  African Member States are making an invaluable  contribution to the fundamental mi ssion of Unesco,  world peace and brotherhood. The participation of  these Member States in the Organization's activities  will widen the circle of mutual appreciation of  cultural values, and it is a happy coincidence that  this takes place at a time of general awakening with  regard to Africa - both within and outside the contin-  ent. The proof of this last point is to be found in the  programme and budget before us, for this time a  well-defined African project takes its place as a  prominent feature of Unesco's programme.
18.5 At this juncture I would like to assure you,  ladies and gentlemen, that the new Member States  from Africa and the State of Kuwait do realize that  the membership of international organizations   PLENARY  is an obligation as well as a privilege.
18,6 May I now briefly refer to an aspect of the  programme which concerns, in the first place, my  own country and the United Arab Republic,I refer to  the international campaign to safeguard the monu-  ments and sites of Ancient Nubile. It is now eight  months since the Director-Genéral launched his  international campaign, and I would like to place on  record that the response to that appeal has been  promising. The Unesco programme for 1961-1962  includes definite proposals for the preservation of  the Nubian monuments. This in itself is an indication  that the Organization is alive to a unique responsi-  bility towards an urgent problem connected with the  preservation of the human heritage. We in the Sudan,  and I am sure this is true of the United Arab Republic,  are extremely grateful and appreciative of the keen  personal interest which the Director-General has  shown towards this project. He has responded in a  determined manner to the appeal launched by the  Government of the Republic of Sudan and the United  Arab Republic. In Sudan the importance attached to  this problem was so great that the Head of our  Government himself patronized the movement for the  preservation of the relics of Nubia, We are happy to  note that the interest in international circles has  been equally great.
18.7 The response of the Executive Board when the  requests of the two governments concerned were  placed before it was most encouraging, Prompt  action followed and a ready response came from  different parts of the world. A Committee of Patrons  was formed which included several members of the  royal familles and heads of the States of the world,  with His Majesty the King of Sweden as Chairman,  An international action committee and a panel of  experts to advise Unesco and the two governments on  the actual operations have also been set up. The  panel of experts has held several meetings in Sudan  and has taken the opportunity to visit the endangered  sites.
18.8 The results of all these efforts can be seen in  the provisions outlined in the budget before us but I  would like, on behalf of the Sudan Government, to  appeal to the Member States and organizations  represented here to do all they can to help us towards  the preservation of this part of our human heritage.  The unearthed treasures of Sudanese Nubia are  undoubtedly of paramount cultural value, not only to  Sudan but to the world at large. The time left before  these precious treasures are to be submerged is too  short, and it is only through your co-operation,  goodwill and sacrifice in the form of financial and  technical ald that they can be saved.
18.9 Mr, President, in trying to promote the  development of education in its various fields, Sudan  has always taken into consideration the regional  needs of our African and Arab neighbours. The  Sudan has for long been co-operating with a number  of African countries in the fields of technical training,  secondary and higher education. The Institute of  Education at Bakhter Ruda, which has become a  world institution, has been giving training to teachera  from African and Arab countries, and the doors of  our secondary schools and of the University of  Khartourn and the Khartoum Technical Institute have  also been opened to students from those countries. -  MEETINGS
216  It is now the established polfcy of the Government to  offer places and scholarships in our educational  institutions to students from all African countries;  the only limiting factor is our lack of financial  resources. Now that Unesco is discussing its special  projects for Africa and the Arab countries, 1 would  like to state that the Republic of the Sudan would  have the utmost pleasure in extending these facilities  within the programme of Unesco.
18.10 Further, we would be prepared to place at  the disposal of our brothers in Africa who have joined  Unesco at this session, all our experience in this  field, both on a bilateral basis and through Unesco.  The Sudan has in fact, already entered into bilateral  agreements with European and African countries for  the furtherance of international co-operation in the  fields of education, science and culture.
18.11 Mr. President, I consider it appropriate at  this point to make a brief general comment on the  Proposed Programme and Budget for 1961-1962, It  is the opinion of the Sudanese delegation that definite  improvement has been achieved in the method of  preparing the budget. Credit for this should go to  the Director-General and his staff, The tendency  begun in 1956, to concentrate efforts around certain  projects, has been carried further in the present  proposals. Our delegation notes with satisfaction  that while there were only three Major Projects -  for the Extension of Primary Fducation in Latin  America, for Arid Lands Research in Desert  Countries of the Middle East, and for Mutual Appreci-  ation of Cultural Values between East and West - the  list now includes equally important special projects  for Tropical Africa, the Arab countries and South  East Asia in the field of education, The African  project, in particular, though far from meeting the  urgent needs of the region, does seem to be a  promising start.
18.12 As a representative of an African country I  am glad to see the project figure so prominently in  the Unesco programme, but I would like to remark  that in all underdeveloped countries, primary educa-  tion should be given priority over the needs in other  fields. It is true that in less developed countries all  needs are urgent and quite often the planner finds it  difficult to decide on priorities. However, there  seems to be general agreement now that the provision  of educational facilities at the primary level should  be the basis for every development programme; .  neither economic nor social progress can be attained  without the general enlightenment of the people. This  is not to minimize the importance of secondary and  vocational education which are essential for the  training of leaders in communities. What we desire  is a shifting of emphasis vithin the project to the  basis of the educational structure,
18.13 Mr. President, ladles and gentlemen I rep-  resent a vast country extending from latitude 4° N to  latitude 22° N covering a major part of Africa and  bordering on the Middle East. Because of this special  position, it is a country where the diffusion of both  Oriental and African cultures has taken place. We  in the. Sudan, because of this unique position, are  well aware of the responsibility we have in furthering  cultural relations betweer Africa and the Middle East.  We shall therefore continue to participate with equal  interest in the projects concerning both Africa   PLENARY  and the Middle East which are before this Conference.
18.14 Mr. President, it gives me great pleasure  to congratulate Ethiopia on the honour bestowed on  her by your election as President of this session of  the General Conference, I should also like to assure  the Director-General and members of this Organiza-  tion of our full confidence in the ideals for which  Unesco stands.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call on H,E, Mr. Malalasekera, Head of the  delegation of Ceylon.
20.1 Mr. MALALASEKERA (Ceylon);  Mr. President, permit me, Xr, on behalf of the  delegation of Ceylon, to convey to you our heartiest  fellcitations on your election as President of the  eleventh session of the General Conference of  Unesco, We wish you every success and happiness  in the performance of your onerous duties and we  shall consider it a privilege to assist you in every  possible way. -
20.2 May we also extend warm and fraternal  greetings to the new nations that have just been  admitted to membership of Unesco?’ It was my good  fortune to be present as a delegate when these  nations were enrolled as members of the United  Nations and 1 shall never forget the warmth of the  ovation with which their representatives were  greeted when they took their seats in the Fifteenth  General Assembly. Their accession to membership  has immeasurably increased the universality of both  the United Nations and Unesco; they bring with  them rich and varied experience which should have  far-reaching results in the policies and programmes  of these international organizations. They have  emerged triumphant, having passed through the  purifying fire of suffering, but they have In them  also an infinite capacity for joy and happiness, and  these too must be provided for,
20.3 We consider it all the more regrettable,  therefore, that the People's Republic of China,  representing 680,000,000 people, i.e, nearly a  quarter of the human race, should still be excluded  from this comity of nations. Whatever may be the  reasons adduced for this action, in our view it is  both unwise and unrealistic. The time cannot be far  distant when this error will be rectified, meanwhile  their absence is a great loss for thrir contribution  could be most valuable. The infinite personality of  man can emerge only from the magnificent harmony  of all races; none can be left out without damage to  the whole human race. -
20.4 Mr. President, it would be almost a truism  to say that this eleventh session of the General Con-  ference of Unesco meets at a particularly significant  moment In international relations. We are now either  on the brink of a holocaust of war which will destroy  most of mankind and our civilization completely, or  on the eve of an era of general and complete disarma-  ment leading to universal peace and happiness. The  issue will depend entirely on our leaders and the  pressure which the masses of mankind throughout the  world could bring to bear upon these leaders. Herein  lies a solemn responsibility on each of us individually  and collectively, on such organizations as the United  Nations and Unesco, where we represent our nations.  xm  MEETINGS
217  The United Nations and its Specialized Agencies are  the institutional expressions of the realities of our  age; they are, above all, the most important safe-  guards of peace. With the recent accession of new  members these organizations have attained maturity  and the intention implicit in their founding-hat now  been made more explicit, With the maturity which  comes with wider representation, their responsi-  bilities also become more significant. It is perhaps  the Asian and African nations, for whom the United  Nations and its Specialized Agencies mean s0 much,  that must rise to the situation and assume an ever  increasing share in the day-to-day running of these  organizations. Our countries which have remained  too long in the backwaters of economic and social  progress now find themselves, by the pressure of  events created by them and in turn reacting on them,  forced into the mainstream of advance and develop-  ment. They need ald, some very badly indeed; but  let us make no mistake about it, the pressing need  for rendering them assistance is not only for their  own future but also the future of others, the future  well-being of the whole world,
20,5 It is the United Nations and its Specialized  Agencies that have become the most suitable means  of channelling that ald. There is no need to empha-  size what is becoming more and more imperative for  peace: the desire expressed by most African and  Asian countries to receive assistance only through  these agencies. Too much direct aid from one country  to another puis a great strain on the relations between  the two countries concerned and is undesirable for  various reasons which are fairly obvious, Interdep-  endence rather than independence should be the  watchword both for today and tomorrow.
20,6 It ia precisely for this reason that Unesco, in  all that it does and the way it does it, should never  lose sight of the fact that it is above all the instru-  ment of international co-operation, of international  exchange, My. delegation would like to lay great  stress on this fact, It is not enough for Unesco to be  the internationally recognized channel for ald to  developing countries, Unesco was not founded for  the exclusive purpose of being an agent for the econo-  mic development of retarded areas. It is one thing to  be the instrument for developing the human and other  resources of Member States and it is quite another to  be an agency only for assistance to underdeveloped  countries. There should be a two-way flow between  countries which are economically retarded and those  that are, if I may say so, technically overdeveloped.  There is an equilibrium in the fields of culture, and  by that word we mean the entire complex of the  sciences and the arts, and this Unesco must keep  before it as the basic and fundamental purpose of its  programme and action. It is not for Unesco to cari-  cature itself before the exigencies of economic deve-  lopment by training a specialized labour force, call  it by whatever name you will, in the developing  countries - experts and technicians who confine their  activities to ambulance work, rather than to the  splendid task of world-wide transformation. In fact,  the very economic development in these countries  demands a fuller, broader and bolder programme of  general education in order to develop an informed  citizenry of creative technicians, capable administra-  tors and trustworthy leaders. This is the test of   XII  education. The task before Unesco is that of advan-  cing and enriching the culture of each country, whai-  ever its stage of development, Herein lies the true  meaning of development and exchange. It is this  mutual exchange and enrichment that is the key to  aid which comes from an international organization.  It is this key which makes such aid different from  purely bilateral assistance and it is the responsibility  of Unesco to demonstrate this difference. Thus, it  is in the programme which the Director-General  presents to our Conference that this difference must  be made evident, What, in fact, we are trying to  say, Mr. President, is that it 18 not enough to refer  to the Constitution in happy preambles. The Consti-  tution must be demonstrated in the programme, and  the programme must represent a coherent whole, a  clearly defined policy.
20.7 But when we turn to the programme before us,  it is difficult to avoid the impression of segmentation,  both of effort and of purpose, Each department,  each discipline, proposes activities worked out in  great detail, and one is 50 often lost in this mass of  details and in these separate segments that one can  have no clear picture of the totality it represents.  In other words, one cannot see the wood for the trees.
20.8 Of course there are the saving clauses of  interdepartmental co-operation, the neat and visually  impressive cross-references to each other's work,  But was the activity concelved from the beginning as  an integrated whole which 1s then reflected through  the facets of the various disciplines that are relevant  to it? One has only too often the feeiing that the  programme of the Organization is the programme its  structure presents and not what its Constitution  demands, There is a very interesting statement in  the Director-General's report on page XVII of the  Introduction: "If there is one lesson that emerges  clearly from Unesco's experience of a decade or so,  it {s that its work {s one of patient accumulation of  fractional results, gradually building up into a  coherent structure. The house is built by laying the  bricks one by one, layer by layer, not by pouring  concrete into a mould". Precisely so. But, we  have not seen, in this connexion, anyone asking for  the pouring of concrete into a mould. What we do  ask for is a blueprint of the house that Unesco seeks  to build, with sufficient flexibility for alteration as  the work of building proceeds, enabling adjustments  to be made to new and constantly changing circum-  stances. Everyone is agreed that the sum total of  the activities of Unesco 18 no mere mosaic of juxta-  position, but a construction of which the component  parts develop on different levels, hinged one with  another. That, again, 18 a quotation from the  Director-General's apprdisal, But where is the  plan of this construction divided into its several  stages? How has it béen conceived and by whom?  How can such a clarity of purpose be achieved?
20,9 My delegation feels that in order to do this  the whole programme of Unesco has to be envisaged  as a totality, from its inception. Each discipline,  each department, however excellently its detail  work is planned, must first conceive its own pro-  gramme under this overall policy which should be  one of broad and complete education. Education and  culture are not two different things; culture is the  goal to be reached by education. Education is for the
218  PLENARY MEETINGS  full life, and social and economic developments are  only means to this end. Education has to be regarded  as a single entity whose component parts cannot be  dissociated.
20.10 Let us now turn to the work of the General  Conference. My delegation is of the opinion that for  far too long the work of the General Conference has  become more and more obscure, Here in this Con-  ference we do not, in fact, discuss policies, lay  emphasis on programmes which we would like to see  take priority so that the underlying purpose of the  Constitution is maintained, and the genuine interests  of the Member States served. Nor do we, In fact,  authorize the Director-General to execute the will of  the Conference. What we do rather, is actually to  spend almost all our time in these conferences to  annotate, amend, compete with one another, in  effecting small changes in a series of projects which  the Director-General proposes to carry out. We are  absorbed almost completely in ferreting out such  items as please or benefit us, indifferent to those  that do not directly concern us. In any-event, if the  truth were told, we engage neither in the discussion  of purpose nor in the formulation of policy. If we  examine the matter more closely, has not the work of  the General Conference degenerated into a kind of  auction sale where, in the midst of bids and counter-  bids, the auctioneer succeeds in the end in selling  all his wares?
20.11 My delegation feels, Mr. President, that the  report of the Director-General should prcvide the  key debate to the Conference, Unesco has been  described as a continuing endeavour, on a broad  front, to achieve certain vital purposes on a global  scale. It is for the General Conference to give the  directives as to how these vital purposes are to be  achieved. But as it happens - and this is no fault of  the Secretariat - the report of the Director-General  is very largely a transference into the past tense of  the programme that was previously adopted, with the  addition of such details as the number of experts who  were recruited, etc. In the description nf the project  details (which we do not and cannot really examine)  the total picture of our work becomes obscure.
20.12 We feel that it should be the work of the  General Conference to define the areas to be empha-  sized, the policy we wish to be carried out, and to  provide the necessary legislation and the means for  carrying it out. After all, we are not necessarily  experts, at least not all of us, and certainly not  experts in all the fields of Unesco's activities, It is  for the Director-General to secure the expert advice  needed in planning how he may carry out the specific  policy we outline, and the projects that he will execute  in the implementation of that policy. But, at present,  this is not what happens, The programme that is  ultimately adopted is the programme that the Confer-  ence is led to adopt. .
20.13 My delegation, therefore, would like to make  a plea for a change in the work of the Conference.  We believe that the Conference should confine itself  to examining the baeic purposes that the programme  serves, the objectives that it seeks to realize, and  consider tho programme in its totality - each part  by reference to the total objectives it envisages.  Let us act with long-range vision and deliberation  * .:her than throw ourselves into long and quibbling   PLENARY  debates on a welter of details already so precise that  any change is hardly possible. Let us leave the  details to the Executive Board and its working parties.
20.14 For this reason, Mr. President, my delega-  tion would like to suggest that the Executive Board  should be enlarged and made more representative,  geographically, culturally and numericaliy, Some  areas are over-represented, a few grossly so,  others have no representation at all or hardly any.  Some countries seem to have on Ce Peur a perm-  anent vested interest. Requests vhai they should  make way for others naturally go unheeded, for  proposals for suicide are never cordially received,  There is need for reorganization of our work and for  reappraisal, and we feel atrongly that it would be  useful to have a working party of the Executive Board  meet during the next year to think out afresh the rôle  of the General Conference in the new context of our  enlarged representation. We must look afresh at  our work and our structure and change it so that it  can truly fulfil its purpose.
20.15 In making these observations on the report  of the Director-General, my delegation has confined  itself almost entirely to matters that concern the  work of the General Conference. These remarks  must not be construed as a wish on our part to find  fault with the Director-General or with the members  of his Secretariat. Théy are all fine men and women  and we have great admiration for their hard work  and their spirit of dedication, for their patience,  perseverance, zeal and enthusiasm in the pursuit of  their programmes, and for their meticulousness.
20.16 If the Director-General, for instance, does  nothing else except read even one-fifth of the docu-  ments published by Unesco, we would regard him  as superhuman. The fault is not in the personnel;  it is in the system which we have so far allowed  ourselves to follow. As far as the programme 13  concerned, my delegation will, of course, present  its own observations at the appropriate time and  place, The Organization's aims and activities have  been guided too much by the varied propositions  presented by its Member States, by the temporary  urgency of certain problems arising from the inter-  national situation, and quite often by empirical  considerations, There has always been the contrast  between the immensity of the needs and the slender  resources available, The needs in many cases have  been accentuated by the exigencies of political  demands. We live in an age of permanent revolution  and we must be prepared to adjust our institutions to  constantly changing circumstances.
20.17 The Constitution of Unesco states that " since  wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of  men that the defences of peace must be constructed" .  Two thousand five hundred years ago, the Buddha  declared that it is not only war and peace that begin  in the minds of men, but that all our actions - what  we say or do, our whole being and the entire happi-  ness or misery of the human race ~ that all this has  its beginnings in the minds of men, that our mind is  the supreme ruler of the world. The concern of  Unesco is with the minds of men, and no time is  more opportune for success in this field of endeavour  than the present. The urgent need of the earth ia for  the evolution of the spiritual man, It is distressingly |  true that the world is on the rocks spiritually, and
219  MEETINGS xu  that at no time in history has the spiritual life of  man been at such a low ebb. But, it is equally true  that human beings everywhere are seeking for  spiritual release and truth and that the truly  religious spirit is more fundamentally alive now than  perhaps at any previous time. People everywhere  are expeclant of a new revelation and of a new dis-  pensation, Humanity has advanced so far on the way  of evolution that its demands and expectations are  not couched in terms of material benefits only, but  also in terms of spiritual vision, true values and  right human relations. Humanity demands teaching  and spiritual help along with the necessary requests  for food, clothes and the opportunity to work and live  in freedom, It faces famine in large areas of the  world, and yet we find men and women registering  with equal dismay the famine of the soul. The  dream of brotherhood, of fellowship, of world co-  operation and of a peace based on right human  relations is becoming clearer in our minds. A new  heaven and a new earth are on their way.
20.18 Mr, President, it is Unesco's task to hasten  the fulfilment of this dream. Mankind looks up to  this Organization for the audacity, the courage and  the vision of true leadership. It is a challenge to all  of us, \ challenge which we cannot and must not fail  to meet.
21, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call on H.E. Dr, Mitchell, Head of the delegation  of Liberie,
22.1 Mr. MITCHELL (Liberia):  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, if I might  paraphrase Marcel Proust, I would say that the  creation of Unesco does not take place once and for  all, but necessarily continues day by day. On behalf  of President Tubman, the Government and people of  Liberia, I bring greetings and felicitations to the  eleventh session of the General Conference of Unesco.  The Liberian Government places special emphasis on  Unesco because of its important functions in the field  of education. We look upon Unesco as bringing hope  to millions of African villages for a better life within  their present environment. This to us means a  better life now, ind not promises for a rosy future,
22,2 To the Liberian delegation this 1s a most  important session, because when Unesco met for the  firat time, in London in 1945, there were only three  independent African States. Today there are five  and twenty. This brings great satisfaction to the  Liberian people, because for more than half & century  the only true African voices in'the forums of the  world were those of Liberia and Ethiopia. We spoke  for Africa, yet there was always the hope that some  day our brothers on the continent would be in the  position to speak, each for himself, Liberia is not  a great nation, but the idea of African liberation  became a policy of the Liberian Government as far  back as 1869 (today of course it is popular to be anti-  colonial). And since then we have devoted all our  energies towards the cause of African redemption.  Our arguments for the freedom of Africa at the  assemblies of international organizations, and our  representations to governments in the interest of  African freedom have brought untold difficulties and  in many instances, direct hardships and death to the   xm  Liberian people, Through it all, we were undaunted,  because we believed that right was on our side,  Today justice has triumphed over injustice, right  over wrong, freedom over enslavement, light over  darkness. The African peoples are accustomed to  deprivation - first it was slavery through the slave  trade, when millions of Africans died in slave gangs,  in the holds of slave ships, or in the tobacco, corn,  aad cotton fields of the new world, Then came colo-  nialism, with added sufferings, Through it all, the  spirit of the African was all he had left, and that  spirit was never broken. He held the hope at all  times that an end would come some day.
22.3 Today we stand on the verge of the dawn of a  new day in international relations, a day when all of  Africa will be free. The African bears no malice or  hatred against anyone; he wishes evil for no man.  For him the past is gone and cannot be recalled, the  future is what matters. He needs schools, teachers,  textbooks, among others, for the education of a  people who are three hundred years late for school-  ing. He needs trained officials within a year or two,  whereas it takes twenty years to train a first-rate  official. Colonialism did not give him these things,  therefore he must get them within the shortest  possible time through such international agencies as  Unesco, which promise him a better life within the  near future without recourse to violence. On the  other hand, the African does not seek paternalistic  treafment. He asks only to be treated as any other  fre” people, to be given his just due, no more and  no less; to have a rightful voice in the councils of  the world; to bear his share of the responsibilities  and obligations that are incumbent upon any free  people.
22.4 But the voice of Africa is faint in Unesco,  because there is no African representation on the  Executive Board, on the Headquarters Committee,  on any of the councils and committees that govern  this Organization. Even after the elections for the  Executive Board, that vast portion of the African  continent from the Sahara to the Kalahari, known as  Black Africa, the centré of true African culture, is  mnt vepresezted on the Board. And why? Because  the power blocks that control the votes to the  Executive Board are not ready to have a true  African voice on the Board. However, we can still  wait, time is in our favour. If we have waited for
300 years, we can wait for another two or four  years. We prefer to have, not his master's voice,  but the true voice of Africa on the Board.
22.5 At the last General Conference we contended  here in these halls that the Headquarters Committee  should include an African State. We were completely  ignored. Again we are asking for a voice in the  operations of the Organization, whether this is done  by enlarging the units, or by a reapportionment of  the existing seats. There can be no true geographl-  cal representation, there can be no true statement  based on equality of all States from this rostrum,  when only a few have a voice in the upper echelons  of this Organization,
22.6 To see so many delegates from the Africen  continent here is indeed a source of joy, especially  to the Liberian people, We welcome our brothers  with open arms and feel sure, now they are here,  that the united voice of Africa will indeed be heard.
22,7 On behalf of the African peoples, and of the  Liberian Government and people in particular, I wish  to extend our hearty thanks to this General Confer-  ence for the honour conferred on our continent at  this Conference by the election of an African as  President of tte General Conference, but only on the  recommendation of the Executive Board. History  shall record this as Africa's conference because of  the admission of 11 African States shortly before or  during the Conference, and because two Africans  were elected Vice-Presidents of the General  Conference,
22,8 When Dr. Veronese was elected Director-  General in 1958 there were many of us who, while  voting for him, held doubts as to the new course the  Organization was to take. We regarded Dr. Veronese  as the European Intellectual which he is, and we saw  Unesco taking the course of an organization for  intellectual co-operation, Today, while admitting  that philosophical divergencies still exist, we are  satisfied that our initial fears were entirely  unfour.ded. We find that during the two years under  review, Dr. Veronese has given equal attention to  intellectual discussions and to programmes of tech-  nicai assistance which are indeed building peace  with! the minds of men. We believe that it is a  tribute to Dr, Veronese that he has been able to pro-  duce a programme that has completely balanced all  shades of thinking within Unesco. This is a difficult  task, and it calls for patience, vision, understanding  and capacity that are almost superhuman.
22.9 There are many who contend that Unesco has  come of age since it acquired its own premises. I  contend that Unesco has come of age because it has  discovered its true purpose, which is service to  mankind.
22,10 The Government of the Republic of Liberia  would like to thank the Director-General and the  Executive Board for the programmes for Africa that  have been outlined in the progiinme and budget
11 C/5 and 11 C/5 Addendum kia Corrigendum,  This is indeed a great move in the right direction of  providing adequate assistance for African States.  However, we hasten to point out the inadequacy of the  programme as drawn up by the Director-General and  approved by the Executive Board. It is the view of  the Liberian delegation that a programme twice as  large as that now proposed by the Director-General  is what is actually needed for Tropical Africa. Even  a $2 million programme for Africa during 1961 and’
1962 cculd be viewed as a mere beginning in the  training of personnel and other forms of assistance in  ihe various areas of education in Africa. The need  in Africa is well known to us all; a debate on the  question is unnecessary. What is necessary is  willingness on the part of this Organization to put  forth a substantial effort, an effort that will really  make an impact in the area of education in Tropical  Africa. -
22,11 In the past, the countries of Africa have come  to the Unesco meetings and have supported every  programme for every other area of the world. We  think it is only right, now that it is Africa's time, to  look forward with great faith to similar support being  given for a programme for Africa,
22.12 To turn now to the programme and budget,  there are a few items on the agenda, mainly   PLENARY  administrative, upon which my Government would  like to make comments. On the question of the  proposal made by the Director-General in document
11 C/ADM/18 of 16 September 1960, concerning  additional office space for the Secretariat, my  Government readily supports the proposal and sees  no reason why the Director-General should not be  authorized to proceed with plans for the construction  of additional office space at Headquarters. It is the  view of my delegation that if we expect the Secretariat  to operate efficiently we should be willing to see that  it has adequate office space within which to function.
22,13 In regard to the proposal made in document
11 C/ADM/15 of 22 July 1960, it 16 the view of the  Liberian delegation that the Director-General, as  the principal administrative officer of the Organiza-  tion, is in a better position to advise on rules and  regulations for the staff of Unesco than anyone else.  Having studied the amendments as proposed in the  document mentioned above, it is the view of the  Liberian delegation that these amendments should be  unanimously accepted by the General Conference and  that the Director-General should be given a free hand  in the operation of the Organization, We further  support his proposal for salary adjustments for the  staff.
22,14 It has been the policy of my Government to  grant a number of scholarships to African students  from various parts of the continent to study at  Liberian institutions at the expense of the Government.  At present there are sever such students at the  Univi.xplty of Liberia, six at Cuttington College and  Divinity School, and three at the Booker Washington  Technical Institute, in addition to numerous others  who have come to study various phases of practical  work and return to their countries. It is the intention  of my Government to continue to offer these scholar-  ships for training of personnel in Africa. We our-  solves are in great need, but our brothers are in  greater need and we are willing to share with them  the little we have. It is the view of my Government,  that the task of tra‘ning educators in Africa would be  greatly assisted if each Member State here present  would offer at least four scholarships per annum to  one of the African countries, at the expense of the  host government, for training of teachers and  administrators to man the schools of Africa,  effort would indeed further the assistance that  Unesco is giving,
22.15 I would also like to point out that the African  governments are not entirely depending on Unesco  or on bilateral grants or on any international organi-  zation to educate their children. Some of them are  spending more than 20% of their budgets in the field  of education. .
22.16 In fine, it 1s the view of the Liberian delega-  tion that the task before this Organization is a diffi-  cult one - it is the résponsibility of providing schools  and instructors for millions of children throughout  the world. This is an important task into which  politics should not enter; the time available to the  Organization to perform miracles of education in  Africa and Asia is indeed short, and every other  argument must give way to the paramount cause that  is before us. There are hundreds of millions of men,  women and children who are looking to Unesco as the  only guarantee of a chance to become literate, or a  This  MEETINGS XI  chance for a better job aud consequently a better  living; or a chance for formal education. Are we  noble enough to live up to this high responsibility, or  are we going to permit petty jealousies and personal  ambitions to cause us to fail in our obligations to  mankind?
23, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  * 1 call upon H,E, Mr. Cadieux, Head of the  Canadian delegation.
24,1 Mr, CADIEUX (Canada) (Translation from the  French): .  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, before sub-  mitting certain observations which the Canadian  delegation wishes to present to the General Confer-  ence, I have three very pleasant tasks to fulfil.
24,2 First of all, Mr, President, I should like to  convey to you our congratulations on your election as  President of this session, which should mark an  important stage in thé history of the Organtzativi.  We trust that the discussions which you will preside  over will be distinguished by objectivity and a deep  understanding of the high mission with which Unesco  was entrusted fifteen years ago,
24,3 Secondly, I should like to express our satis-  faction to the Director-General and the Secretariat  for the way in which Unesco's affairs have been  conducted during the two years which have passed  since the last session. During these two years, the  Director-General and his collaborators have cease-  lessly striven to keep Member States informed of the  progress of the Organization's activities while at the  same time encouraging them to meet their contractual  obligations. 1 would like to be able to say with as  much assurance that we, the beneficiaries of their  work, have made full use equally steadfastly of the  excellent material they have so frequéntly provided  us with. In speaking of excellent material, I am  thinking particularly of the Introduction to the Draft  Programme and Budget for 1961-1962, It contains a  masterly exposition not only of Unesco's tasks for  the two years ahead but also of the fundamental  principles which inspire the vast and varied complex  of the Organization's activities.
24,4 Thirdly, Mr. President, I have the honour un  behalf of Canada of warmly greeting the newly  independe'it countries which are taking part in the  work of the General Conference for the first time.  It is with, the lvellesl ‘satisfaction that we observe  that one of their first intérnational moves was to  request admission to Unesco and the other United  Nations agencies. The path of mutual co-operation,  which ls that of the United Nations leads, in fact,  towards a world which we would all like to see come  into :eing, a world which, despite setbacks and dis-  appointments, is taking shape in the joint under-  takings with which we are concerned here, We  therefore welcome these new fraternal States, as  well as the Associate Members whose presence at  this General Conference helps to enrich our experi-  ence and make our discussions more realistic.  (The speaker continued in English)
24,5 It gives me great pleasure, Mr. President, to  be able to report to this Conference that during these  last two years there has been in Canada a very consi-  derable increase in interest and activity in Unesco   Xm PLENARY  affairs, The Canadian National Commission for  Unesco, created at the end of 1957, has during this  interval been briskly getting on with its important  tasks of collaborating with Unesco, and bringing the  work of the Organization to the attention of the appro-  priate Canadian institutions and organizations and to  the interest of the Canadian public generally. The  Canadian National Commission for Unesco has been  particularly successful in organizing the many and  varied resources in Canada, whether governmental  or private, to advance the purposes of Unesco's  East-West Major Project - The Mutual Appreciation  of Eastern and Westerp Cultural Values, For  example, the co-operation of the National Film Board  and of the Canadian Film Institute was secured to  compile a catalogue of films on Asia available in  Canada; and the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation  has been active jn producing special radio projects  on this theme. The National Gallery of Canada and  other organizations have undertaken special activities  on the East-West theme, and the National Commission  has sponsored a variety of conferences which we  think have successfully stimulated a wide Canadian  interest in this important part of Unesco's programiae.
24,6 We are informed that there has been a steady  increase in Canada in sa).53 of and subscriptions to  Unesco publications. Or er the last two years,  moreover, Canada has prefited from a number of  international meetings organized or sponsored by  Unesco, The Canadian Commission has also  developed close relations with other National Com-  missions throughout the world, and Conada has  continued to carry out its important duty of providing  facilities for the reception and the training of Unesco  fellows from other countries,
24.7 In August of 1960, Cenada was honoured and  happy to serve as the host country to the World  Conference on Adult Education, a conference which  perhaps more than any other single factor brought to  the attention of Canadian citizens the nature and  quality of Unesco's responsibilities, This conference  in Montreal - which we are most happy to have been  assured was highly successful - aroused not only  great interest among the many organizations in  Canada concerned with adult education, but also  received widespread and intelligent notice in the  Canadian press and brought an important part of the  work of Unesco tu the attention and notice of the  Canadian public to which it gave a very helpful edu-  cation in the work and in the objectives of Unesco.  Finally this last summer, also, a Canadian perman-  ent delegation was appointed to Unesco Headquarters  in Paris.
24,8 Canada in 1945 was one of thè forty-seven  founder States of Unesco and has biden, over the  years, a strong supporter of Unesco's activities and  purposes. Reasons which led Canada to the conviction  that the work of Urièsco was of the greatest import-  - ance are still valid fifteen years later, and indeed  they now carry much more weight. Unesco, in 1960,  is immeasurably stronger than it was fifteen years  ago; stronger in resources, in membership, of  course, and, what is of great importance, stronger  in experience and confidence. Over these years  Canada has been by no means a purely passive or  uncritical advocate of Unesco's activities, With  other member countries, we have had from time to’
222  MEETINGS  time apprehensions that the necessarily limited  resources of Unesco were in some danger of being  spread over too many unrelated activities, and that  on occasion the programmes of Unesco appeared to  be unduly ambitious in relation to the financial, and  not infrequently to the human, resources available  for projects which may have seemed desirable in  themselves, but threw too great a weight of respon-  sibility and of labour upon the growing organization.  It is, of course, the duty of a godparent to keep a  careful eye upon his godchild; and this we have dons  always, I trust, in a spirit not of unhelpful criticism,  but rather of affectionate if somewhat prudent goodwill,
24.9 At the appropriate time, the Canadian delega-  tion will have something to say in detail about the  proposed programme and budget under items 15, 16  and 17 of the agenda. While we have been able to  support the U, S. proposal as to the provisional budget  level, we expect that the detailed examination which  is to be carried out in the course of this Conference  will show that a serious effort has been made to ell-  minate projects of doubtful value and urgency, and  that the proposed increase in staff and programme  expenditures are justified. Canadian delegations over  the years have consistently urged upon Unesco the  necessity of concentrating its resources, of establish-  ing firm and workable priorities for programmes,  and of putting them into effect with a reasonable  regard for economy. In view of the very considerable  resources which it seems likely will be made avail-  able to Unesco through the Special Fund and through  the Expanded Programme of Technical Assistance we  trust that there may be found considerable support  for the view that the Technical Assistance programmes  of Unesco should now be considered with the greatest  care, so that these principles of concentration, of  priorities, and of economy may be held in due regard.
24.10 I must confess that we find it somewhat dis-  turbing to know that the various Specialized Agencies  which draw very substantlally from the Special Fund  and from the expanded programme should be at this  time financing a growing number of Technical Assist-  ance programmes through their own budgets. What  gives Canada, and this delegation in particular,  some concern has been the consistent increases in  budgets of the Specialized Agencies while at the same  time Canada, and other countries of course, have  been increasing substantially their contributions to  the Special Fund, the expanded programme and to  other centralized agencies. For example, the  Canadian subscriptions to the International Bank for  Reconstruction aiid Development and the International  Monetary Fund were recently more than doubled.  The Canadian Parliament has approved Canadian  membership in the International Development Asso-  ciation to provide capital to the less developed  countries, Canada will subscribe 37, 85 million  dollars to the International Development Agsociation;  and Cenada is also contributing 2 million dollars, as  the fifth largest contributor to the Special Fund, and  a further 2 million dollars to the expanded programme,  as the third largest contributor. Continued support  by governments for United Nations aid programmes  will depend to an important extent on the ability of  the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies to  administer the funds made available to them in a  rational and effective way. It is the Canadian view   PLENARY  that a rational and efficient system of administration  is more likely to be developed if the aid funds made  available to the United Nations are channelled through  centralized agencies,
24,11 Although, therefore, the Canadian delegation  supports the provisional budget level approved by  the Conférence we, and no doubt others, propose to  examine both in detail and in principle certain of the  proposals which have been laid before us, It is true  that the great majority of Unesco's proposals have  commended and do commend themselves to the  approval of the Canadian Government. This does not  alter the fact that with steadily increasing commit-  ments to United Nations funds and to the budgets of  Specialized Agencies, many national governments,  including that of Canada, will have to consider very  carefully their views on the most effective ways in  which their funds available for international purposes  can be expended.
24,14 In this connexion I might briefly note that  among the proposals which my delegation will wish  to examine with care are those regarding Unesco's  relations with the International Development Associ-  ation and the United Nations Civilian Operations in  the Congo. While there can be no doubt that Uneaco  has an important and helpful rôlé to play in both  these fields of activity, it might be that the specific  proposals which are before the Conference at this  time are somewhat premature. To these as well as  to other matters, my delegation will be giving  attention as the Conference proceeds.
24.13 I have observed that the great majority of  Unesco projects commend themselves to the Canadian  MEETINOS Xi  United Nations Associations will be continued and  strengthened, And we are pleased to notice the  Director-General's happy phrase that ",,, the whole  range of the Organization's administration must  first be welded into a consistent whole". With this  objective in mind, and armed with the excellent if  somewhat voluminous documentation which 16  characteristic of this eleventh session, we are look-  ing forward to svbsequent debates with the liveliest  interest and pleasure, ;
24,14 At the National Conference of the Canadian  National Commission for Unesco, to be held in  February of 1961, it is proposed to take as the  general theme " New Dimensions in International  Relations" with particular reference to the work of  Unesco, It seems to the Canadian delegation  important to realize that these new dimensions in  international relations are already apparent to us;  that there has developed through Unesco and through  other international agencies a new sense of joint  partnership so that no longer is the invidious  distinction made between contributing and receiving  nations. It is the convinced view of the Canadian  delegation that we at this Conference are engaged in  a joint partnership as citizens, not only of our own  countries, but in a larger sense as citizens of the  one world which we all must share. For our part,  we welcome this opportunity of association with all  peoples of the world, all of us no doubt with some-  what special problems of our own, but all of us  united in the belief that solutions to the world's  problems must be the consequence of joint action, of  joint discussion, of reason, of persuasion, and of a  Government, In co-operation with the Canadian  National Commission for Unesco we have carefully  examined, as indeed have other delegations, the  programme and budget for 1961-1962. While we are  in agreement with our National Commission for  Unesco that, in general, both the projects concerned  and the planning for them have been clearly stated by  the Director-General, we shall naturally have obser-  vations to make on a number of the projects planned  for the next two years. It is our view that Unesco  plays a most helpful rôle when it gives assistance to  international associations concerned with parts of  the total areas with which Unesco is concerned. We  hope that Unesco's relationship with such organiza-  tions as the International Association of Universities,  the World Confederation of Organizations of the  Teaching Profession, and the World Federation of  sense of world community which, it is our conviction,  Unesco of all the United Nations agencies has perhaps  the greatest responsibility and the greatest opportunity  to further.
25,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Ladies and gentlemer, before closing the meeting,  may I, on your behalf, thank the eleven speakers,  who addressed the Conference this afternoon.
25.2 On your behalf, too, I should like to ask  speakers tomorrow and on subsequent days to be as  brief as possible so that we can keep to the time-table  drawn up by the General Committee and adopted by  the Conference, I declare the meeting closed.  The meeting rose at 7 p.m.