15 November 1960, at 3. 45 p.m.  President : Mr. Jean BERTHOIN (France)  later: Mr, Akale-Work ABTE-WOLD (Ethiopia)  CONTENTS  Adoption of the Revised Agenda (continued) . ........ 81  Adoption of the Report of the Nominations Committee, Elec-  tion of the President and Vice-Preaidents of the General  Conference .. . «+ vs 4 + 0 4 0 0 1 00 0 0 00 8 000 0 88  Establishment of Commissions and Committees . . . . . . . 91  Admission to the eleventh session of observers from Inter -  national non-governmental organizations .. . +++... 91  Admission of Assoclate Members of the Organization, . . . 94  Admission of new Member States of the Organization : Kuwait 98  ADOPTION OF THE REVISED AGENDA (continued)  t. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  The meeting is open. We shall now conclud» the  debate on the adoption of the agenda. I call upon  Mr. Tellez, to speak for the delegation of Guatemala.
2.1 Mr, TELLEZ (Gratemala) (Translation from  the Spanish) :  Mr. President, fel’uw delégates, Guatemala, which  is itself suffering from colonialism, firmly and cate-  gorically condems it in all its forms and aspects.
2.2 ‘fhe Guatemalan delegation considers that such  a matter should in no circumatances be raised at a  Conference like this; however, since the question  of colonialism was hotly discussed at this morning's  meeting, the Guatumalan delegation wishes to make  the following declaration, clearly and emphatically;
2.3 Our country, at the cost of great sacrifices,  has kept up a long and painful dispute with England.  For over a hundred years, we have been crying out  for justice to ke done to a small people which claims  the reunion of the territory of Belize, unlawfully  retained by a foreign power, with the mother country.
2.4 At this meeting, before the representatives of  the different countries of the world, we wish to es-  tablish our claim, although we do not agree with the  Soviet Union that Unesco ls the right Organization to  deal with this problem as a whole. -
2.5 Indeed, we are convinced that the question does  not come within Unesco's purview, since other inter-  national institutions exist to deal with questions, like  colonialism, which affect a great many peoples.
2.6 Even if other countries remain indifferent to  this problem which faces my own, Guatemala will  continue the struggle. We will exhaust all possible  peaceful means of achieving our objective, and we  are persuaded that, when justice is done - as it will  be before long - when this happy day dawns for my  country, Unesco will extend its aid and technical
81  assistance to Belize, a small part of the American  continent where education, science and culture have  not yet flourished as much as could be desired.
2.7 It is highly regrettable that, during this debate,  speeches have been madé without any regard to the  ordinary rules ‘of courtésy and diplomacy. Therefore,  while reiterating our firm ‘and’ inmitigated condemna-  tion of countries which are ‘perpetuating the colonial  system, we would request the Soviet delegation, for  procedural reasons and because the question con-  cerned is of a political nature, not to distract the  attention of delegates with matters which are not  within the competence of ‘Unesco and, in the interest  of good fellowship, concord and the efficient conduct  of our debates, to withdraw its proposal and thus to  speed up the work of Unesco, which has such tre-  “ mendcug tasks ahead of it.
3. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) :  I call upon Mrs, Joboru, to speak on behalf of the  Hungarian delegation,
4.1 Mrs. JOBORU (Hungary) :  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Hungarian  delegation associates itself with the opinion expressed  by other delegations that the question of the represen-  tation of the Chinese people should be put on the agenda  cf the present Conference, We are of the opinion that  the arguments raised against this proposal cannot be  accepted. Neither the decision of the present Assem-  bly of the United Nations nor the decisions of our  previous Genaral Conferences can prevent Unesco,  this independent international organization, from  putting on the agenda of the present General Confer-  ence a question, the discussion and the solution of  which are required by the internationäl general public  and by the basic principles laid down in Unesco's  Constitution and are also necessary for the success-  ful activity of the Organization.
4.2 Unesco cannot enjoy the real confidence of its   Iv PLENARY  old and new Member States and of the international  general public unless it changes the ridiculous and  senseless position relating to the representation of  the Chinese people, unles it recognizes the Goyern-  ment of the People's Republic of China as the legiti-  mate representative of the Chinese people instead of  the clique of Chiang Kai-shek, -
4.3 The exclusion of the People's Republic of China  from Unesco, in addition to violating the Chinese  people, the sense of justice of the international  general public and the basic principles af Unesco's  Constitution, has a most unfavourable influence on  Unesco's practical activity. The Chinese are not  only a mighty people but a people with a great  culture, China's ancient cultural values and its  outstanding cultural achievements in the last ten  years are well known all over the world. Taking  into account all thesé considerations, the Hungarian  delegation is of the opinion that the question of the  representation of the Chinese people should be put  on the agenda of the present General Conference.
5. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) :  The delegation of the United Kingdom has asked to  reply to the statement made by the Guatemalan dele-  gate, and it is undoubtedly their right to do so. 1  therefore call upon the delegate of the United Kingdom.
6.1 Sir David ECCLES (United Kingdom) :  Mr, President, I regret that I was not here when  the representative of Guatemala raised this point. It  seems to us a great pity that Guatemala should use  an international and a technical forum like Unesco  for raising what is afier all a purely political argu-  ment. ‘The terms of reference of this General Confer-  ence do not require it to express opiniors or make  recommendations regarding disputes over soverelgn-  ty, and it is not competent to do so.
6.2 As the delegate of the United Kingdom, I do not  accept the statement of the Guatemalan delegate in so  far as it disputes the sovereignty of Her Majesty's  Government in the United Kingdom over British  Honduras, Her. Majesty's Government have no doubt  as to their sovereignty over the territory of British  Honduras and I wish, Mr, President,” formally to  reserve the rights of Her Majesty's Government on  this question, If the statement of the Guatemalan  delegation is recorded in the minutes, I request that  my present statement shall also be so recorded.  The PRESIDENT (Tr. 1slation from the French) :  The debate is now closed. But before we proceed  to vote, I should like, as was agreed this morning,  to call upon Mr, H,E. Abdoulaye Singare, Minister  of Education of the Republic of Mali.
8.1 Mr. ABDOULAYE (Mali) (Translation from the  French) :  . Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, one month  after being proclaimed a Republic, Mali applied for  admission to Unesco. We are particularly gratified  at being accepted as a member of this international  Organization, in whose activities we had already been  co-operating indirectly through the competent depart-  ments of the French Government.
8.2 As a mark of satisfaction and of the interest it  takes in Unesco, my Government has done me the
82  MEETINGS  honogr of appointing me to lead its delegation at the  prèsent ‘session, Our delegation also includes  Mr, Amadou Hampate Ba, Director of the Mali  Scientific Research Institute and a great specialist in  African traditions, who is well known in this building,  not only because he was once the holder of a Unesco  fellowship, but also on account of his work which is  highly appreciated in all international scientific  circles,
8,3 Unesco, by its very nature, has a leading part  to play in the development of relations between all the  peoples of the world, which is the best guarantee of  international understanding and universal peace. The  young African States place much hope in the assist-  ance it can give in solving the problems with which  they are faced in the scientific and cultural fields.  Without in any way minimizing the achievements to  the credit of the civilizing powers, it must be ad-  mitted that there is still much to be done in this  field in order to combat illiteracy and give full  expression to human values, It is, therefore, with  a conviction of the necessity for understanding in the  scientific and cultural fields that the Republic of Mali  today takes its seat in the great international associa-  tion of Unesco. We come, first of all, to take  advantage of the experience of the United Nations and  also to contribute our share of cultural treasures,  so as to foster that mutual understanding without  which no peace is possible.
8.4 Before the debates begin, I may perhaps be  permitted to say a few words about what Mall was  in ancient times, what Mall is today and what we  would like Mali to be tomorrow, as a member of the  community of nations.
8.5 In olden days, Mali was a great empire, and  historians have had much to say about its wealth,  organization and culture. Its territory included most  of the present French-speaking States of West Africa,  and its influence extended through North Africa as  far as Europe. It contributed to the introduction and  spreading of Arab culture into Tropical Africa,
8.6 The Republic of Mali constitutes a resurrection  of this glorious cultural past, Just as the Mali  Empire, owing to its geographical position, played  a leading part in the evolution of Tropical Africa, so  the Mall of today has contributed to the awakening of  African nationalism, although this does not imply  the slightest antagonism towards anyone. Mali,  therefore, has merely confirmed that the spiritual  values of a people can develop only under national  sovereignty, We shall respect such values in all  nations, but we also intend that all nations shall  respect ours. We have drunk from the springs of  French culture, but without having destroyed vur  own values in the process. A few weeks ago,  Mr. Modibo Keita, President of the Government  of the Republic of Mali, made a speech at Segou,  which was one of the capitals of the great Sudanese  Empires and v/hich remains today a living school of  African traditions; he said: "All that will remain  of France in Mali will be her culture" ; that culture,  enriched by many contributions {rom outside, is °  more of a universal than a national culture. It is  theréfore rot astonishing that young nations, eager  to be universal, should adopt French as their official  language.
8.7 I hive told you what Mali wae in the past and   PLENARY  what it is today, What we would like our country to  be in the cultural aphere, is a model centre where  modern technology will fashion the native human  material, but without warping it or shaking the  foundations of our spiritual life and our humanism,  Was not Bamako, the capital of the Republic of Mali,  the meeting-place where, over the past fifteen years,  the idea of African emancipation took shape? The  cultural influence of Mali cannot be better expressed  than in the words of Mr. Lemine Gueye, President of  the Senegal National Assembly, and the oldest and  most respected of African statesmén, who said:  "Whenever Africa has tried to find its soul, it has  found it at Bamako",
8.8 What Bamako was for African statesmen, we  should like Mali to be for all Africanists the world  over; for any idea which comes from Mall has every  chance of spreading throughout the rest of the con-  tinent because of our country's central position in  West Africa. No ground could therefore be more  fertile for Unesco's work.
8.9 I thank you for your kind attention and shall  close in our African fashion by saying : "Peace be  with you“, .
9. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I now call upon Mr. Rateimamanga, Head of the  Malagasy delegation,
10.1 Mr. Ratsimamanga (Malagasy Republic)  (Translation from thé French):  Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, ladies and  gentlemen, one of the finest achievements of this  century has been the creation of this world organiza-  tion, this intellectual forum, where convictions and  aesthetics converge and work together.
10.2 Unesco unites those who, in other spheres,  oppose and insult one another and makes them work  together for the greater glory of knowledge, That is  why, of all the honours which have been bestowed  upon the young nation of Madagascar since its return  to independence, the honour which you are doing it  today by admitting it to your Organization ia the one  which has touched it most, It is'dlso the one which  will have the greatest effect on its future activities  and will give the best assurance of permanence to its  individuality as a nation,
10.3 If I might apply to international circles &  metaphor which is familiar to the French literary  world, I would say that: at this moment, Madagascar  is receiving from your hands its habit d'immortalité,
10.4 I would therefore like to thank you, most  cordially, on behalf of Mr, Tsiranana, President of  the Malagasy Republic, whom you received so warmly  here only about 10 days ago, on behalf of the people  of Madagascar and on my own behalf, or you will  guess how happy and proud a universit/ man like  myself is at the admission of his couni~y to Unesco.
10.5 I hope that in the next few months my present  joy will take the form of an effective contribution to  the common task. We have, of course, much to ask  of you, for it appeara that, although solitude may well  be fruitful for a nation, isolation becomes daily more .  harmful, as technical progress causes the dimensions  of the worid to shrink | ’
10.6 The first thing you can do to kelp us, and  which we shall appreciate above all else, is toprotect
83  MEETINGS IV  us againat mental isolation, For the real barrier  between peoples is not their language, but the far  more serious one of being unable to accépt different  moral codes or to understand different methods of  reasoning, We want and love to converse with the  rest of the world, and our admission to Unesco gives  us the chance to do so,
10.7 May all people of goodwill desire it as we do,  and may the taste for communicating thoughts in  times such as these, when intereats are so ruthlessly  opposed to one another, be safeguarded by Unesco;  and may this taste in Îts turn safeguard the most  precious thing of all - the dignity of the human race.
10.8 Wé should like, therefore, to raise the  question of the necessity for such exchanges. That  is why we are anxious to make accessible to our  people the joys of knowledge which, no matter to  what extent it ls carried, 1s always conducive to  civilization and improvement. That is why, too,  we hope for your assistance in raising the standard  of our education and extending it to an increasing pro-  portion of the population.
10.9 But Unesco, as the first two letters of its  initials imply, stands above all for unity. We know  that these benefits must not be rererved for the  privileged few, but must be extended to our whole  nation of shepherds and workers in the forests and  rice fields. We do not forget that knowledge, how-  ever much of it is acquired and even if it be limited  to the most elementary notions, should open the doors  to your world community. We are waiting for your  assistance, we are waiting for you to help us to  convert the 51% of our population which is literate  (although the percentage is sometimes as high as
90% in the centre of the country) into a people who  have all got well beyond the stage of "reading,  writing and arithinetic", of which too much has been  said, in order to do better, and be able to think for  themselves and express themselves with ease. We  do not fear to state that this aim, which gives rise  to far more difficult problems than the fight against  illiteracy, should be ours and that Madagascar is  worthy of following the trail blazed by France. But  to succeed, we need encouragement from you. For  who is in a better position than you to improve our  humble vif:age schools andincreasetheir number, or  to develop our university and our training college for key  personnel, who, although they already exist,arestilltoo  few innumber? And above all whoisin abetter position  than youto inspire the necessary fervent respect for a  humanisin which has taken refuge in your temple?
10.10 Is is by symbolizing our entry into your  assembly in this way that we can feel proud to offer  you our own contribution. As a newly independent  nation, we have énthusiasm. But as a formerly  independent nation, we still possess the strength  of our traditions, which are all the more alive in  that we had to preserve them carefully if we were  ever to find ourselves again, Our way of thinking is  strongly marked by those traditions. Being a mixture  of many different races, based on the negroid element,  we are a combination of them all. And the miracle  of having formed a nation and a civilization of mi-  gratory elements of such diverse origins has taught  us that, rightly proud of a tradition in which three  continents were united, we should always be the lnk  between Asia, Oceania and Africa.   IV PLENARY
10.11 In order to keep this idea alive, we already  have our temple, which we owe to the generosity of  France and to which we should like to invite you, It  is our university,
10.12 It would be foolish to try and attract you by  the magic of the climate, which ic very healthy at  Tananarive, or by the notorious friendliness and  gentleness of our people, What you will find there,  in a more positive fashion, is a range of studies  which is rare elsewhere, whether it be a question  of our language or of our new-born culture, You  will be able to study old Sanskrit phrases dating back  six centuries before the Buddhist era, whici form the  basis of our language, you will find a poetry and  prose related to the Japanese halkais and the Malay  pantoums, From the Sixth century onwards, Arab  civilization left its traces, as did the Bantu language.  Come and visit us, then, It is not only Madagascar  which will welcome you but also French technicians,  A new humanism is being fashioned, a new culture is  being created, and a new nation .is being born. Help  us in this direction, for human beings, no matter  what their origins, are indivisible, and humanity is  not the privilege of a single group of men, We must  have a sense of belonging to the rest of the world,  whilst at the same time retaining our own individuality.
10.13 Ladies and gentlemen, I shall not take up  your time any longer, I have mentioned the various  civilizations which went to make up what is today  called Madagascar. May the joy of the moment, then,  take the form of tangible results in the near  future. The newly admitted nations may have much  to ask, but they also have much to give and that is  what Madagascar eagerly hopes to do. May its  spiritual treasures be added to yours, which are  those of the whole world, by means of Unesco. That  will be our pride from henceforward aud that is why  I want again to express my gratitude.
11.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French)  I am sure that the entire assembly appreciates the  dignity, nobility and sincerity of the speech made by  the Head of the Malagasy delegation,
11.2 Ladies and gentlemen, you have now to vote on  the revised agenda for the eleventh session of the  General Conference,
11.3 I would first like to reply to Mr, Mitchell who,  in his speech, mentioned the problem of the debate on  the Director-General's report. You have before you  document 11 C/2 containing the Executive Board's  proposals regarding the organization of tlie work of  the session, and it will be for the General Committee  to decide, in the first place, on the date in question,  it being understood that the final decision will rest  with the Plenary Conference. Incidentally, the  General Committee which you will shortly be electing  will be starting tomorrow to study the proposals  regarding the organization of the Conference's work.  From all the speeches made on this subject, I have  noted that three items of the agenda submitted to you  were questioned. The first of these is Item 7  (Representation of China in Unesco). The deletion of  this item has been requested by the delegations of the  United States of America, Viet-Nam and other  Member States, whilst its inclusion has been request-  ed by the delegations of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, Guinea, the United Arab Republic and :
84  MEETINGS  other Member States. In compliance with the request  that has been made, voting will be by roll-call, As  we are dealing with an amendment to the proposals  submitted to you, you will vote on this amendment ;  i.e. on the question whether Item 7 should be deleted  or not.
12. (The vote was teken by roll-call :  Voted in favour : Argentina, Australia, Belgium,  Brazjl, Cameroun, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa  Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, France, Federal  Republic of Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti,  Iran, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Korea, Lebanon, Liberia,  Libya, Luxembourg, Mexico, Monaco, Netherlands,  Nicaragua, New Zealand, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines,  Spain, Thailand, Turkey, United Kingdom, United  States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela and Viet-Nam  Voted against: Afghanistan, Albania, Bulgaria,  Burma, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,  Cambodia, Central African Republic, Ceylon, Cuba,  Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Finland, Ghana, Guina,  Hungary, India, Indonesia, Mali, Mordcco, Nepal,  Nigeria, Norway, Poland, Rumania, Senegal, Somalia  Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukrainian Soviet  Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,  United Arab Republic and Yugoslavia.  Abstained : Austria, Dahomey, Ethiopia, Israel,  Ivory Coast, Laos, Malegas, Republic, Republic of  Niger, Tunisia and Upper Volta.  Absent : Congo (capital : Brazzaville), Dominican  Republic, Iraq, Federation of Malaya, Panama and  Saudi Arabia).
13.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the F rench  The result of the vote is as follows : 41 in favour  of deleting Item 7, 33 against, 10 abstentions end  & delegations absent. Item 7 is accordingly withdrawn  from thé Agenda.
13.2 We now come to the second item subject to  controversy. There is a reque:t for the deletion of  Item 15. 6 dealing with disarmament questions, which  was Included in the revised agenda at the request of  the delegation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  ica. The deletion is requested by the delegation of  Liberia. Whereas other delegations request that this  item be retained. The following is the text of Item
15.6: "The action taken by the Director-General for  the implementation of the resolution adopted by the  Executive Board at its 55th Session concerning the  question of general and complete disarmament" (item  proposed by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics).
13.3 As there has been norequeat for a roll-call  vote, voting will be by a show of hands.
14.1 Mr. LAPIN (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lies) (Translation from the Russian) :  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to  say a word about the way in which this meeting is  being conducted, The President is clearly taking  sides, which he is not allowed to do, During the  whole meeting we have seen the President - whom  we greatly respect - using his gavel to silence  certain speakers, while addrcesing compliments and  congratulations to others. I have no desire for the  President to compliment me, but at least he should  be fair, It would be best of all if our President  remained impartial throughout.   PLENARY
14.2 We have been accused of ralsing a question  which does not concern Unesco's actiyities. But as  you know, the Executive Board, at its 5th session,  adopted a resolution requesting our respected  Director-General, Mr, Veronese, to {ake all appro-  priate measures to further through Unesco, that is  bs means of culture, science and education, the great  ic ea of disarmament and the lessening of international  tension, Surely it is correct that the Director-General  should report to the Conference on what he has been  able io do in this direction, and that we should all  help him to find the correct ways of really assisting  humanity, by means of science, education and the  mobilizing of the intelligentsia, in the great and  necessary cause of disarmament, Is this not the  task of Uresco?
14.3 It has been sald that we should not concern  ourselves with politics, But there are good politics  and bad politica, Disarmament is good politics. Let  us therefore assist the Director-General and the  Organization as a whole to apply Unesco's resources  to these matters.
14.4 1 should therefore like to request that we re-  tain on the agenda this question, which is of real  concern to Unesco and which will be of assistance  to the Executive Board and the Director-General.
15.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French) :  I should like to reassure the leader of the Soviet  delegation, although J feel some need of being  reassured myself. l always try during debates  which are not always easy to conduct, to preserve  a strict impartiality but just now I had the feeling,  when observing the hesitation - very visible from  where | am at the moment - of the representatives  of certain delegations, that they had not quite under-  stood or heard the perhaps inadequate explanation I  gave concerning the method of voting. My only con-  cern was to enlighten the assembly again, in case  there were still any doubts about what ! had said.  There has never been any questicn of avoiding the  vote; on the contrary, we were just about to proceed  to it. I do not think, therefore, that I deserve to be  accused of partiality in the conduct of the debates.
15.2 Having said this, I will now call upon H. E.  Mr. de Berredo Carneiro, leader of the Brazilian  delegation.
16.1 Mr. -de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  (Translation from the French) :  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, those of us  who have been following Unesco's proceedings for  many years know well enough that the first two days  of each session of the General Conference are always  stormy and full of political incidents. We are there-  fore not {oo dismayed to see a few clouds gathering,  for we hope that they will soon be dispelled.
16.2 So far as the item in question Is concerned,  I would like to try to divest it of its political nature  in the narrow, or party, sense of the word. There  are not two parties at Unesco - one in favour of  disarmament and the other hostile to it. There are  not two groups at Unesco - one in favour of peace end  the other hostile to it. We must do away with this  wrong impression that we are divided over a maiter  as sacred as this, The resolution adopted by the
85  MEETINGS IV  Executive Board at its 55th meeting was adopted  after thorough examination, | was discussed at  length and passed unanimously, The Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics is not alone in taking an interest  in the implementation by the Director-General of a  resolution which the Executive Board referred to him  unanimously. It is the entire Organization that is  interested in knowing to what extent the international  situation has made it possible, or impossible, for  the Director-General to take a certain number of  decisions along the lines laid down in the Executive  Board's resolution; that resolution was not in the  least political, in the narrow sense of the word, but  was intended to ensure that Unesco would have an  opportunity of collecting its share of the immediate  profits of disarmament, if and when it should come  about, and using any resources thus made available  in the interests of education, science and culture.  And it is only in this spirit, and for this-purpose of  allowing Unesco the use of funds which will become  available for peaceful ends, that we expressed the  wish that the Director-General should tell us, from  time to time, how and under what conditions it has  been possible to implement this resolution of the  Executive Board.
16.3 There is no question of addressing an  ultimatum to the Director-General, demanding that he  tell us what he has been unable to do; we leave him  free to impart to us his impressions on the develop-  ment of a problem which is dear to all our hearts,  no matter where we come from or what our political  ideology may be.
17. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 call on Mr. Thayer, Head of the delegation of the  United States of America.
18 Mr. THAYER (United States of America):  Mr. President, 1 would like to associate the United  States delegation with the remarks of H,E. Mr. de  Berredo Carneirc of Brazil, It is perfectly true that  in the early days of any Conference such as this  there is uneasiness und tension. 1 might add that  the uneasiness and the tension generally come from  those who, for some strange reason, seem to be not  very sure of themselves. But I think it strange that  in this country and on this rostrum it should be  necessary for any delegate to rise to the defence of  either the President of this Conference, or the  Director-General, Certainly their records here in  Unesco and in past years are sufficient evidence of  the fairness and the zeal with which they have per-  formed their duties; the Executive Board has passed  a resolution on this subject. As ! have said a great  many times before, we are not here to discuss  political issues, and it is curious that this issue  should be raised by those who in the past have walked  out of political meetings on this subject, There is  no need for us to remind anyone here how to do his  duty. We are all in favour of disarmament, but this  is not the place to discuss it. [I therefore, Mr.  President, as representing a country that has been  one of the champions of disarmament in the world,  oppose the placing of this question on the agenda.
1 believe it should be left to the Director-General.   IV PLENARY
19. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon the delegate of Poland,
20.1 Mr. WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) (Translation  from the Russian):  Mr. President, I have listened with some surprise  to the remarks made by certain delegates. In the first  place, it seems to me entirely superfluous to defend  you against any of today's speakers. 1 did not under-  stand any of them as having any objection to the way  in which you have conducted the meetings of the  General Conference. There is therefore no need to  defend you,
20.2 In the second place, the question of disarma-  ment is one which no organization belonging to the  United Nations system can avoid discussing. It is,  of course, a political question, but as such it is no  less important for education, science and culture,  Moreover, it is clear to all of us that in the condi-  tions of the armaments race, not to mention the cold  war or, worse still, a "hot" war, the development of  culture, science and education is impeded, and con-  sequently our Organization cannot refrain from con-  sidering this question.
20.3 If we avoid discussing this matter, if Unesco  does not raise its voice in defence of the idea of  disarmament and the reduction of world tension then,  of course, all our efforts to educate people and to  develop science and culture will be In vain, I there-  fore fail to understand the objections to including this  fem on our agenda.
20.4 Furthermore, this question is not a new one;  it was taken up and discussed at length by the Execu-  tive Board, which finally came to a compromise  decision, which satisfied the wishes of all members  of the Board and all Unesco Member States. The  resolution adopted by the Executive Board speaks of  the utilization of any resources released as a result  of disarmament to meet urgent needs in education,  science and culture. This resolution therefore falls  into the category of those which we are obliged to  discuss.
20.5 I support what has been said here by the  delegates of the Soviet Union and Brazil, and believe  that an overwhelming majority of the General Confer-  ence shares their views,
20.6 I should like to request that a roll-call vote  be taken, as was done in the case of the preceding  items on the agenda.
21, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 call upon H,E. Mr. Ammoun, delegate of  Lebanon,
22,1 Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) (Translation from  the French) :  Mr. President, Mr, Director-General, ladies  and gentlemen, you will perhaps allow a representa-  tive of a very small country to sum up the very valu-  able remarks which have been made and, although  not in the least empowered to speak in the name of  countries of similar size and power to his own, to  echo something of their opinion by saying what he  feels about the {inclusion of this question of disarma-  ment in the agenda.
22, 2 I should have liked to eliminate passion from  this debate. You know the story of the king to whom  MEETINGS  someone said: "You will be happy the day when you  wear the shirt of a happy man", He searched  throughout the kingdom and finally found a man who  replied "Yes" to the question "Are you happy?". But  the happy man had no ehirt, Perhaps, to return to  atomic armament, one day the happy people - as in  the case of the shirt + will be precisely those who do  not possess such armament. A few explanations are  no doubt necessary with regard to certain points of  detail, In a way, this is a question of politics, for  there are politics in a narrow sense of the word, there  are politics inthe wide sense of the word, but there are  also politics as such, There are cultural politics,  educational politics and even scientific politics if we  go back tothe Aristotelian sense ofthe word, Politics  can be applied to everything, and we all know that to-  day there is such nthing as world-wide politics fn con-  nexion with hunger, Consequently the word politics in  itself may be like that famous Spanish inn where every-  one found what he had brought there, We too,can con-  cern ourselves with politics, but with politics confined  to education and culture. ,
22,3 Iam a little ashamed about this speech of  mine, for I have the feeling that, in speaking of  disarmament, I am dealing with a sphere of activities  foreign to me, So far as we are concerned, there is  no problem, But I consider that, all the same, we  have the right to take a certain interest in questions  connected with disarmament and here again I would  liketo quote an Arab proverb which says that whenthe  sea andthe wind dobattle, it is the small boat that suffers,  Inthis particular case, we are the small boat; although  we are neither the wind nor the sea, we may, therefore,  take a certain interest inthis question of disarmament.
22.4 So far as its inclusion in the agenda is con-  cerned, although we have no very detailed informa-  tion on this subject, we have nothing against it; but  this again calls for some explanation, If itis a  matter of going into details, into questions of power,  bombs, equipment and comparative strengths, that  is obviously outside our competence, But if by  disarmament we understand moral disarmament  - which is perhaps the preliminary and essential  condition for the material disarmament which should  follow - then I consider that we can deal with it;  I would even go so far as to say that we ought to deal  with it, since our very Constitution bids us construct  the defences of peace inthe minds of men, Ithinkthen  that, subject tothe conditions whjch I have already  mentioned and which would eliminate all partisan, if not  political, aspects of the problem and all cause for passion  as well, we can include the question of disarmament in the  agenda, whilst bearing in mind that it shouldbe treated  within the terms of reference laid down by our Constitution,
23, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H.E. Mr. Duwuona-Hammond, leader  of the delegation of Ghana,
24,1 Mr. DUWUONA-HAMMOND (Ghana) :  Mr. President; fellow delegates, the delegation  of Ghana considers it somewhat unfortunate that this  debate has been oponed again and that this particular  item on the agenda concerning action taken by the  Director-General on the implementation of the  resolution adopted by the Executive Board at the
55th session should take so much of our time.   PLENARY  We know that Unesco is not the place for what we call  "power politics; this is a place for education, for  the advancement of human knowledge and all other  matters pertaining to culture, ‘The question the  delegation of Ghana would like to ask the Conference  ie : "Why did the Executive Board adopt a resolution  or take a decision as to complete disarmament at this  time?" 1 do not know their reasons, but I feel sure  that the Executive Board took that decision in the  belief that with complete disarmament or with any  degree of disarmament, millions if not billions of  pounds which today are being used in the production  of war materials can be turned to the service of  mankind,
24.2 If a decision, therefore, has been taken by  the Executive Board, we, the delegation of Ghana,  do not see the reason why we should object if the  Director-General or whoever is responsible is asked  to tell this Conference what action has been taken  towards its implementation, We do not think that  the Director-General is bound to give a full account,  He may merely state before the Conference that the  resolution was adopted, that ways and means have  been sought to secure complete disarmament, and  that we have not achieved our goal. It is a pity that  we should come here to spend the precious hours  which we should use in thinking for the benefit of  mankind, in a discussion of these questions, which  I consider to belong in the realm of power politics.
25. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 call upon the Director-General.
26,1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL (Translation from  the French):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I had  absolutely no intention of speaking, and perhaps it is  not even opportune to do so, but, since it is not a  matter of disarmament in general but, according to  the wording of the proposed item, of measures taken  by the Director-General in pursuance of the decision  of the Executive Board, and since the delegate of  Ghane has just expressly referred to this, I think  it my duty to read to you the relevant decision of the  Executive Board, Having noted the decision entitled  "General and complete disarmament", which was  adopted unanimously by the General Assembly of the  United Nations on 20 November 1959, together with  a while series of considerations, the Executive Board  concludes as follows :  "Requests the Director-General  (a) To continue to take all appropriate measures  to bring about the formation, in all Member States,  of a climate of opinion favourable to the achievement  of the objects of tho United Nations resolution,  (b) To submit to the Executive Board as soon as  the United Nations have achieved agreement on  general and complete disarmament under effective  international control, a report on measures which  might be adopted by Unesco within its field of responsi-  bility to collaborate with the United Nations in the  implementation of the agreement.  (c) To submit to the Executive Board as soon as is  feasible proposals for the utilization of any resources  released as a result of disarmament to meet urgent  needs in education, sclence ard culture,  (d) To inform the Executive Board of whatever he  has been able to do implement this resolution."  MEETINGS Iv
26.2 I have therefore kept the Executive Board  regularly Informed in all reports submitted to it at  sessions subsequent to that at which this resolution  was adopted, and by means of oral reports, of what  I felt I could do,specially in pursuance of the first  part of the resolution, which is at present the only  applicable one; i.e, that dealing with the creation  of a climate of public opinion favourable to the  achievement of the objects of the United Nations  resolution. I have even mentioned this fact in reports  which I have submitted to the General Conference.
27.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French) :  A motian for the closure of the debate has been  submitted to me by H. E. Mr. El Fasi, head of the  Moroccan dzlegation,
27.2 Here are the provisions of rule 76 of the  Rules of Procedure, by virtue of which the closure  of the debate can be declared:  "A Member State or Associate Member may at any  time move the closure of the debate, whether or not  any other speaker has signified hie wish to take part  in the discussion, If application is made for per-  mission to speak against the closure, it may be  accorded to not more than two speakers. The Presi-  dent shall take the sense of the General Conference  on a motion for closure. If the General Conference  is in favour of the closure, the President shall declare  the closure of the debate."
28.1 Mr, EL FASI (Morocco) (Translation from  the French):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the  impression that we are already beginning to discuss  the substance of the question, although it ig merely a  matter of approving the inclusion of an item in the  agenda.
28.2 This item has been submitted by the Executive  Board which has examined it at great length and very  thoroughly at its last two sessions, and particularly  in April, We were almost unanimous in proposing  that this item be placed on the agenda. We come to  the General Conference, and the President was about  to proceed to the vote when operations were suspended.  lt was, in any case contrary to the Rules of Procedure  to allow members to speak once the voting procedure  had begun. But now that a number of delegates have  spoken - and most of them on the substance of the  queation - I do not think that there ls a single person  in this room who is against disarmament, If we want  disarmament (and here I go entering into the substance  of the question myself), it is in order that the money  used for armaments may be employed for education.  I am therefore requesting you to close the debate in  accordance with Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure  and to proceed immediately to vote for the inclusion  of this item in the agenda. When it comes up for  discussion in the General Conference, we shall have  plenty of time to express our points of view.
290. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  So as to be perfectly clear, we shall proceed to a  roll-call vote:
30. (The vote was taken by roll-call:   IV PLENARY MEETINGS  Voted in favour of the deletion of item 15.6:  Australia, Belgium, Canada, Ceylon, Chile,  Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, France,  Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Guatemala,  Haiti, Iran, Italy, Japan, Korea, Liberia, Luxembourg,  Monaco, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Philippines, Spain,  Thailand, Turkey, United Kingdom, United States of  America, Uruguay and Viet-Nam,  Voted against : Afghanistan, Albania, Brazil,  Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Ecuador,  Ethiopia, Finland, Ghana, Guinea, Hungary, lvory  Coast, Morocco, Mexico, Poland, Rumania, Senegal,  Somalia, Sudan, Sweden, Tunisia, Ukrainian Soviet  Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,  United Arab Republic, Upper Volta and Yugoslavia,  Abstained: Argentina, Austria, Cameroun,  Central African Republic, Congo (capital : Brazzaville),  Denmark, El Salvador, India, Indonesia, Israel,  Jordan, Laos, Lebanon, Libya, Malagasy Republic,  Federation of Malaya, Mali, Nepal, New Zealand,  Republic of the Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan,  Peru, Switzerland and Venezuela.  Absent : Cambodia, Iraq, Panama and Saudi  Arabia),
31.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French) :  Here are the results of the vote: 30 in favour of  the deletion of item 15.6 from the revised agenda,
30 against, 26 abstentions, and four delegations  absent, Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference stipulates that: "If a vote is  equally divided, in voting not concerned with elec-  tions, a second vote shall be taken in the course of  a subsequent meeting, This meeting shall be held  within forty-eight hours after the first vote, and the  taking of the second vote shall appear on its agenda,  Unless at this meeting there is a majority in favour  of the proposal, it shall be considered as lost", 1  therefore propose that the question be included in  the agenda for tomorrow morning,
31.2 If there is no opposition, it is so decided,
31.3 There remains the third item under discussion.  There is a request for the deletion of item 23,2,2,  which reads as follows : "Communication from the  Government of the Republic of China concerning the  contribution and the arrears in payment of contribu-  tions of China". The deletion of this item from the  agenda has been requested by the delegations of the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Poland and other  Member States, On the other hand, the delegations of  the United States of America and other Member  States have requested that it be retained. We shall  proceed to a roll-call vote,’
32. (The vote was taken by roll-call ;  Voted in favour of the deletion of item 23,2.2  from the agenda : ‘ Albania, Bulgaria, Burma, Byelo-  russian Soviet Socialist Republic, Ceylon, Cuba,  Czechoslovakia, Guinea, Hungary, India, Indonesia,  Nepal, Poland, Rumania, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.  Voted against: Argentina, Australia, Belgium,  Brazil, Cameroun, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa  Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador,  Ethiopia, France, Federal Republic of Germany,  Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Iran, Italy,  Japan, Jordan, Korea, Lebanon, Liberia, Luxembourg,  Mexico, Monaco, Nicaragua, Netherlands, New  Zealand, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Spain, Sudan,  Switzerland, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, United  Kingdom, United States of America, Uruguay,  Venezuela and Viet-Nam,  Abstained : Afghanistan, Austria, Central  African Republic, Congo (capital: Brazzaville),  Dahomey, Denmark, Finland, Israel, Ivory Coast,  Laos, Libya, Malagasy Republic, Federation of  Malaya, Mali, Morocco, Republic of the Niger,  Norway, Senegal, Somalia, Sweden, United Arab  Republic, Upper Volta and Yugoslavia,  Absent: Cambodia, Iraq, Nigeria, Panama and  Saudi Arabia.
33.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Here 18 the result of the vote: 16 In favour of the  deletion of item 23. 2, 2 from the agenda, 46 against,
23 abstentions, and five delegations absent. Con-  sequently, item 23.2. 2 is retained on the agenda.
33.2 1 now propose that you vote on the revised  agenda as a whole, subject to the result of the vote  tomorrow morning on item 15, 6 which is held over.
33.3 The revised agenda is adopted.  ADOPTION OF THE REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE.  ELECTION OF THE PRESIDENT AND VICE-PRESIDENTS OF THE  GENERAL CONFERENCE
33.4 1 call upon Mr. Sharif, Chairman of the  Nominations Committee, to present its report.
34.1 Mr, SHARIF (Pakistan), Chairman of the  Nominations Committee :  Mr, President, fellow delegates, the Nominations  Committee held its first meeting this afternoon and  did me and my country the honour of electing me as  its Chairman. The Committee also elected Pro-  fessor Sommerfelt of Norway and H. E, Mr. S. M,  Apithy of Dahomey as Vice-Chairman, The task of  the Committee was to prepare a list of nominations  for the posts of President and 16 Vice-Presidents of  the General Conference, and to submit for the con-  sideration of the Commissions and Committees the  names of persons to serve as Chairmen of these  bodies and suggestions concerning the posts of Vice-  Chairman and Rapporteur, In preparing these re-  commendations, the Committee was greatly assisted  by the report of the Executive Board submitted in  accordance with Rule 30 of the Rules of Procedure.  Mr. President, fellow delegates, it is now my  privilege to present to you the recommendations of  the Nominations Committee. The Committee pro-  poses, as President of the eleventh session of the  General Conference, H.E, Mr. Akale-Work Abte-  Wold, the Ambassador of Ethiopia in Paris, For  Vice-Presidents the following 15 countries are  recommended : Argentina, Austria, Brazil,  Czechoslovakia, Ghana, India, Italy, Mexico, Sudan,  Thailand, Tunisia, the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, United Kingdom, United States of America  and Venezuela,
34,2 For the posts of Chairmen of the various  conimisslons and committees, the Nominations   PLENARY MAETINGS IV  Committee makes the following recommendations :  Programme Commission, Mr. Louis François  (France) ; Administrative Commission, H,E, Mr.  Barén Castro (El Salvador); Legal Committee,  H.E, Mr, Raadi (Iran).
34.3 The following officers of the Conference were  already elected before the meeting of the Nominations  Committee: H.E, Mr, Matsui (Japan), Credentials  Committee; Mr. Gardner Davies (Australia),  Chairman of the Headquarters Committee; Mrs,  Kaminska (Poland), Reports Committee,
34.4 The Committee further recommends that the  election of the Vice-Chairmen and Rapporteurs of the  various Commissions and Committees and the work-  ing parties should take place in those bodies. In  doing so the Nominations Committee hopes that the  delegations will give due consideration to the prin-  ciple of a balanced geographical distribution, with  due regard to the diversity of culture and competence,
35. The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe French):  I call upon H.E. Mr, Duwuona-Hammond, Head of  the delegation of Ghana.
36,1 Mr. DUWUONA-HAMMOND (Ghana) :  Mr. President, I am grateful to you first, and to  the Conference also, for granting me the favour of  speaking on this rather rare occasion. The Govern-  ment and people of Ghana, through their delegation  here present, cannot fail to express their warmest  thanks to the Executive Board and the Nominations  Committee for giving serious consideration to the  position of the Continent of Africa, and for having  recommended the candidature for the Presidency of  the Conference of no mean nation, the candidature  of Fthiopia, one of the ancient States of Africa.
36.2 In a broadcast to our nation on 8 October
1960, soon after his return from the United Nations  General Assembly, our illustrious leader Dr,  Nkrumah, President of the Republic of Ghana, said,  and | beg to quote him : "The year 1960 has been  described as an African year in the United Nations.  At the present session of the General Assembly, 15  new African States have been admitted to member-  ship of the United Nations; more are to come. We  congratulate the new States of Africa on beginning  their career in the international sphere and we hope  that we will all join in working together for the politic-  al unity of our Continent, and in projecting the African  personality In current international affeirs".
36.3 Mr, President, we in Ghana believe that  Africa has a vital rôle to play in International affairs.  Our first interest is in peace, We belleve by experi-  ence that, given the necessary tools, the African is  capable of proving his mettle in any sphere, no matter  how new, strange or difficult, It is our great hope,  that by the infusion into this Organization of newblood  from Africa (I refer to the Presidency), the purposes  for which Unesco stands will be more easily achieved,
1 understand that since the inception of this Organiza-  tion, this is the firet time that an African has been  recommended for the seat of the Presidency. Con-  fident as I am, as an African, of the integrity and  capabilities of the African, ! support this nomination  and on behalf of the Government and the people of  Ghana recommend to this session of the Conference  the candidature of H. E. Mr, Akale-Work Abte-Wold
89  of Ethiopia for the Presidency. I am confident that  he will never let his fellow delegates down.
37,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard the pro-  posals of the Nominations Committee, supported by  the Head of the delegation of Ghana; I think that your  applause makes voting unnecessary,
37.2 [therefore declare H, E, Mr. Akale-Work  Abte-Wold elected President of the General Confer-  ence at its eleventh session,
37.3 Mr, President, I should like immediately to  express on my own account the feelings which this  assembly has just demonstrated to you, The new  President of the General Conference is Head of the  Ethiopian delegation, has been Ambassador to Paris  since 1958, and represents a couniry of very ancient  civilization where legend and history vie with one  another in a glorious past; a State for which, as he  himself reminded us recently, in a remarkable  speech that we have not forgotten, intellectual and  social education has always been a major problem,  for the solution of which the Sovereign and the  peoples! representatives have always made the  greatest sacrifices; a country destined by its geo-  graphical situation to be a link between Africa,  Europe and Asia, Your choice, ladies and gentlemen,  is therefore first of all a mark of homage to a noble  nation where a respect for the liberty of man and  human dignity was confirined very early in itshistory.  But I know, too, that your homage is also paid to the  eminent personality whom you have elected. Mr.  Akale-Work Abte-Wold was, as I may be allowed to  state with special cordiality, a student at the French  Lycée in Alexandria, and his training as a technician  made him acquainted with industrial questions. His  gifts as an administrator, however, were no less  brilliant, and he was successively tte head of the  Ethiopian Red Cross, Minister of Ag riculture, and  finally Minister of Education of his (ountry, before  becoming one of {ts most distinguis'ied diplomats.  Our new President, therefore, is particularly well  versed in all the problems which wè have to discuss  here, he is accustomed to dealing with their reper-  cussions and, so to speak, the urity of human beings,
1 would ask him to accept my vary cordial greetings  and be so good as to come and relieve me of my  office, thus accepting the high responsibilities of  which he is so entirely worthy.
37.4 1 now call upon the Chairman of the Executive  Board,
38. Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom),  Chairman of the Executive Board :  Mr. President and fellow delegates, I am sure  that you will allow me to intervene at this particular  point, when we are about to say farewell to one  President and are about to greet another. It is right  before we embark upon the pleasant task of greeting  our new President that we should assure the depart -  ing one that he takes with him our sense of gratitude  which we would like to express to him. In the course  of the last Gereral Conference he guided our delibera-  tions with great experience, great skill and great  wisdom, and he is bringing and has brought this new  General Conference into a promising existence, I!  am sure that we would like to tell him that we feel   LV PLENARY  that we have profited greatly from his knowledge, his  skill and his masterly handling of our deliberations,  so I would invite you, ladies and gentlemen, with  acclamation to show our gratitude to our retiring  President.  (Mr, Berthoin surrendered the chair to Mr. Akale-  Work Abte-Wold).
39.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Ladies and gentlemen, it is not without emotion  that I assume this high office which you have entrusted  to me, and my first official task will be to thank all  those to whom I owe this signal honour from the bot-  tom of my heart. The honour indeed appears to me  to be formidable when I think of the long line of  illustrious persons who have presided over our  debates for the good of the human race as a whole,  It is to the last of these - to my very eminent colleague,  Mr, Jean Berthoin - who, with all the competence of  a distinguished French academic, discharged his  duties as President with exceptional verve, that I  would like to pay, on behalf of us all, a respectful and  grateful tribute, Once again we have had the oppor-  tunity of appreciating the personality of our ex-  President on the occasion of the opening of the present  session of the General Conference, and we'are not  likely to forget his never-failing courtesy, his alert  and precise mind, his firm but elegant way of con-  ducting the debates, all of which show that he posses-  ses the essential virtues of great servants of the  French Republic. It requires much boldness on my  part to succeed him. I shall therefore need all your  understanding and all your sympathy in order to  accomplish my difficult task, and, in zo doing, I  shall always try to follow the exaraples and lessons  of my distinguished predecersur,
39.2 Two sad events have marked the beginning of  the present Conference. I should like to associate  myself with the homage rendered to the memory of  Dr, Pedro de Alba; anyone who had the opportunity  of meeting him, for no matter how short a time,  loved him dearly; he died the noblest of deaths -  that which overtakes a man in full harness. I would  also like to associate myself with the tribute paid  to the memory of Professor Gaston Berger, whose  sudden decease is an almost irreparable loss to our  Organization, These two untiring workers for our  great ideal will always remain present in our memo-  ries,
39,3 But the opening of this Conference is not  marked by sadness alone, How can we fail to rejoice  at the presence of new Member States and new Associ-  ate Members who are prepared to contribute their  enthusiasm end faith to our work? How could I not  rejoice to see the circle of the African family  widened here?
39,4 Although I rightly prize the honour which you  have done me, it 1s easy to guess that, through me,  you wished to honour the oldest of the African States.  Although this is only the second time that I have  headed my country's delegation to the General Confer-  ence - which, from certain points of view, makes  me a beginner - I also find myself playing the part  of a doyen.
39.5 1 would therefore like to thank all the delegates  of the five continents who, by electing me, have ;
90  MEETINGS  celebrated the advancement of Africa. 1 thank them  as an African, of course, but I algo thank them as a  militant in Unesco's great cause. They have shown  that they are still loyal to the principles which inspire  our work and which are at the very source of the  Charter of the United Nations, Transcending petty  quarrels and the Inevitable and regrettable differences  of opinion, the present General Conference has set an  example of universality, This ought to be empha-  sized, This example is all the more valuable in that  the African States expect a great deal of Unesco -  or, in the last analysis, of the solidarity of all other  countries. What they expect is not assistance in the  form of mere financial subsidies or other expedients  designed to compensate for their lack of progress,  but a brotherly, unself-seeking ald which, in thelaet  resort, should be just as advantageous to those who  give as to those who receive. For there are not, as  many il)-informed people still think, wealthy and  energetic nations on the one side and poor and le-  thargic nations on the other, the former restricting  themselves to giving and the latter to begging and, in  some cases, receiving without any effort,
39.6 The countries which are known as under-  developed can and must contribute energetically to  the preparation and execution of assistance pro-  grammes of which they are theoretically the bene-  ficiaries. Any project - as recent examples have  unfortunately shown - which does not make enough  allowance for the conditions existing in the country  where it is to be carried out, runs the risk of not  achieving its ends. If this institution is to succeed  it must adapt its programme constantly to local  needs ; and this it can do only by securing the close  co-operation of the representatives of underdeveloped  countries in the working out of methods and pro-  grammes and the choice of means, This close, active  collaboration will make it possible to discover local  leaders in all spheres, who will emerge as the work  goes on and will contribute their advice and sug-  gestions, thus giving all the various experts an  opportunity to add to their knowledge of the country  where they are called upon to work, to the greater  benefit of culture in general. For there ought not to  be a mechanical repetition in Africa and Asia of what  has been done previously in other areas of the world,  even if it has been successful, We ought to be able  to see radically new methods devised, not in the  secrecy of laboratories, however reputed or valuable -  they may be, but as the outcome of a constant and  fruitful exchange of ideas between the most favoured  nations and those which are far leas fortunate.
39.7 In this way we shall see our Organization  develop into the closely-knit universal body, which  it was originally designed to be, and it will then be  possible to lower the legal, technical and mental  barriers which still geparate members of the human  family, even in the age of rockets and perhaps of  inter-planetary communications.
39.8 I shall now give the list of the 15 countries  proposed by the Nominations Committee for the poate  of Vice-President, They are as follows : Argentina,  Austria, Brazil, Czechostovakia, Ghana, India,  Italy, Mexico, Sudan, Thailand, Tunisia, Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom, United  States of America and Venezuela,
39.9 I take your applause to mean that you approve   PLENARY  of the Committee's proposals, I would remind you  that, according to the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference, these 15 Vice-Presidents should  arrange to be represented by a member of their  delegation if they are unable to attend meetings.  ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
39,10 We now come to item 4, 2 of the agenda and  shall proceed to elect the Chairmen of the Programme  Commission, the Administrative Commission and the  Legal Committee, so that-they can attend the meeting  of the General Committee tomorrow morning.
39.11 In accordance with the procedure adopted  during previous meetings of the General Conference,  the plenary meeting is suspended and we shall now  sit as the Programme Commission. You have heard  the proposal of the Nominations Committee for the  Chairman for this Commission, Mr. François  (France) is the candidate nominated by the Committee.  I understand from your applause that you approve of  this recommendation, Mr. François is therefore  elected Chairman of the Programme Commission.
39.12 I now declare the first meeting of the Adminis-  trative Commission open for the purpose of electing a  Chairman. The Nominations Committee proposes that  the Chairman of this Commission should be Mr,--Barén  Castro (El Salvador). The recommendation is accept-  ed. The first meeting of the Administrative Com-  mission will take place tomorrow morning at 10  o'clock in Room IV. The Commission will then  proceed at once to elect its Vice-Chairmen and  Rapporteur.
39.13 Finally, we come to the question of the Legal  Committee. In order not to have to convene the  members of this Committee in another room for a  purely formal meeting, I submit for your approval  the names of the representatives of the 15 Member  States proposed for membership of the Committee :  Costa Rica, Denmark, Ecuador, France, Indonesia,  Iran, Italy, Lebanon, Liberia, Pakistan, Rumania,  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom,  United States of America and Venezuela. The Nomi-  nations Committee suggests that H. E, Mr. Raadi  (Iran) should be Chairman of this Committee. The  proposal is adopted.  ADMISSION TO THE ELEVENTH SESSION OF OBSERVERS FROM  INTERNATIONAL NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS
39.14 We now come to Item 5 of the agenda. I call  upon the Chairman of the Executive Board to present  its recommendations,
40.1 Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom),  Chairman of the Executive Board :  Mr, President, on behalf or the Executive Board,  I submit to you our recommendations concerning the  admission of observers from international non-govern-  mental organizations to the eleventh session of the  General Conference. You will know that our Consti-  tution contains two provisions concerning the admis-  sion of observers, In the first place, all non-govern-  mental organizations with consultative status are  automatically invited to send observers, In the
81  MEETINGS IV  second place organizations not having consultative  status may send obuervers to the General Conference  if auch invitations ave approved by a two-thirds  majority vote. You will find in document 11 C/6, a  printed document, and Addenda, which are cyclo-  styled, the list of 14 organizations of tho latter  category recommended by the Board, These are  organizations not having consultative status, but  wishing to send observers, Four of these bodies  are well-known foundations which aro traditionally  invited to the sessions of our Conference, and the  information about them and another ten organizations  is found in documents 11 C/22 and 11 C/6 and  Addenda.
40,2 On behalf of the Executive Board I would like  to move that the 14 non-governmental organizations  listed in these documents, 11 C/6 and the Addenda,  be invited to send observers to the present session  of the General Conference.
41, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon Mr. Azimov, delegate of the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics,
42.1 Mr, AZIMOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian) :  The delegation of the Soviet Union is of the opinion  -that ‘Unesco should establish and maintain close-and  permanent relations with all international, inter-  governmental and non-governmental organizations,  whose activities are related to education, science and  culture and contribute to the consolidation of peace  and co-operation between all peoples.
42,2 Unesco's purposes and tasks are defined in its  Constitution, which was signed on 16 November 1945,  that ie, exactly fifteen years ago, vhen the memory  of the world war. that had just come to an end was  still quite fresh in everyone's mind, a war which was  unleashed by Nazi Germany with the connivance of  certain Western States and which caused incalculable  suffering and misery to the various peoples, Thus,  it is not by chance that the Constitution of our Organ-  ization declares before anything else the need to  construct the defences of peace in the minds of men.
42,3 In assuming the most noble and important  task of contributing to the consolidation of peace and  security, Unesco pledged itself to promote closer  contacts and mulual understanding between the various  peoples and to encourage co-operation between all  countries in all fields of intellectual activity, Con-  sequently, Unesco should, firstly, be as representa-  tive as possible, that {s, should be composed of all  peace-loving States, regardless of their social  structure and degree of economic development, and,  secondly, co-operate extensively with all orguniza-  tions whose activities are designed to consolidate  peace and security, without discrimination against  any of them,
42,4 Unfortunately, it must be noted that seve-al  truly democratic international non-governmental  organizations have for some considerable time t een  the object of discrimination on the part of Unesco  contrary to the Constitution of our Organization,  Among these international organizations, mention  may be made of such mass organizations as the  World Federation of Democratic Youth, the Women's  International Democratic Federation, the International   Iv PLENARY  Union of Students and the International Federation of  Journalists, as well as such representative organiza-  tions as the International Radio and Television  Organization and the International Association of  Democratic Lawyers,
42,5 The extent to which the above-mentioned  organizations are representative of the masses is  shown by the following data: 91 countries sent the  representatives of 87,000,000 boys and girls to the  last Assembly of the World Federation of Democratic  Youth, held in Prague in 1959. At present,
101,000,000 boys and girls belonging to 97 countries  are members of this organization, The Women's  International Democratic Federation comprises  women's organizations in more than 50 countries  and has 200,000, 000 members belonging to all con-  tinents of the world; the same number of countries  are represented in the International Union of Students.  The International Radio and Television Organization's  members consist of broadcasting organizations in  more than twenty European, Asian and African coun-  tries. The International Association of Democratic  Lawyers comprises national organizations in thirty  countries,
42,6 As regards Unesco's relations with the first  four of the above-mentioned organizations, their  inconsistency cannot fail to cause bewilderment.  The World Federation of Democratic Youth, the  Women's International Democratic Federation and the  International Union of Students were approved for  consultative arrangements with Unesco and sent  observers to the General Conference. Subsequently,  however, they were deprived of that status under the  false pretext that their activities did not correspond  to Unesco's activities, One has only to study the  fundamental provisions of the statutes of these  organizations and the work done by them in order to  be convinced that the provisions of their statutes and  their activities completely correspond to Unesco's  fundamental tasks and purposes,
42.7 Why does Unesco endeavour to exclude these  organizations which are anxious to co-operate with it  and participate in a number of its activities? Unesco  observers participated in some of the activities  carried out by the aforesaid organizations, tor  instance, in a session of the International Radio and  Television Organization and in congresses of the  International Democratic Federation, The l'epre-  sentative of Unesco attending the special Conference  organized during the Fourth Congress of the Women's  International Democratic Federation in Vienna, in
1958, when speaking in connexion with the resolution  of the Conference on the education and training of  children, recognized the importance and present-day  interest of the questions discussed at the Conference  and specially emphasized that the education or  children in a spirit of peace and friendship is one  of the important tasks defined in the Constitution of  Unesco,
42,8 Further, in the resolution adopted by the  Fourth Congress of the Women's International  Democratic Federation the Congress welcomes the  activities of Unesco and of the other Specialized  Agencies and organs of the United Nations, aimed  at improving the situation of children in under-  developed and colonial countries, and expresses  the hope that these organizations will contribute to
92  MEETINGS  the education of children and youth in a spirit of  friendship and respect for all peoples, The Congress  considers that the State and the community should  guarantee compulsory free general education for all  children of school-age in their native language,  without distinction as to race, nationality, sex,  social origin, etc.
42.9 Alltheother organizations to which I have  referred carry out similar activities, Who can  maintain, without flouting his conscience and common  sense, that the noble principles and aims, as well as  the activities of these organizations are contrary to  or do not correspond to the principles and aims  defined in Unesco's Constitution or to the Organiza-  tion's activities?
42,10 The Soviet delegation supports the Executive  Board's decision in regard to inviting an observer of  the International Radio and Television Organization.  At the same time, the Soviet delegation considers it  impossible to tolerate any longer Unesco's policy of  discrimination against other non-governmental  organizations and urges that a resolutio:i be immedi-  ately adopted, inviting to the present eleventh session  of the General Conference observers of the World  Federation of Democratic Youth, the International  Union of Students, the International Organization of  Journalists, the Women's International Democratic  Federation and the International Association of  Democratic lawyers.
43. The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe French):
1 call upon Mr. Hoffmeister, delegate of  Czechoslovakia.
44.1 Mr, HOFFMEISTER (Czechoslovakia)  (Translation from the French) :  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, 1 do not  want to become involved in a discussion of this  question by entering into too much detail, but I would  like to say a few words about the way in which ob-  gerver status has been granted to certain non-govern-  mental organizations and yet withheld from others.  The list of aims set out in Unesco's Constitution was  based on the concept of universality and corresponds  almost exactly to the list of activities set out in the  statutes of the international organizations working  for education, science and culture, And yet the  Executive Board decided by a majority not to grant  them observer status or the advantage of consultative  arrangements,
44,2 1 venture to invite the General Conference,  now rejuvenated by many new Member States, to  modify its attitude and throw the doors of Unesco  wide open to the world of education, science and  culture as represented by certain international  organizations, One cannot help feeling somewhat  bitter about certain illogical decisions taken by the  General Conference andthe £xecutive Board and obati-  nately repeated at recent sessions of this Conference.
44,3 The World Federation of Democratic Youth,  the International Union of Students, the International  Radio and Television Organization, the Women's  International Democratic Federation, the World  Federation of Teachers! Unions, the International  Association of Democratic Lawyers and the Inter-  national Organization of Journalists have a total of  hundreds of thousands of members belonging to over   PLENARY MEETINGS  seventy countries, and these young people, women,  journalists, students and teachers are the type of  people who alone are capable, owing to the very  nature of their work, of helping Unesco in a really  effective way to pursue its essential aims in the  tense atmosphere at present prevailing in the world,
44,4 All, in fact, make a useful contribution to the  spreading and application of the ideals of international  understanding and peaceful co-operation, for theyare  the people who represent the generation which will  succeed us in this assembly - or at least we hope so -  at future sessions of the General Conference of  Unesco, The rejection of their applications by certain  Member States is in flagrant contradiction with the  disconcerting indulgence shown towards certain very  minor organizations to which consultative or observer  status has already been granted.
44,5 The Czechoslovak delegation therefore urges  the General Conference to grant observer or con-  sultative status to all the organizations which I have  named in my very short speech.  The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe French):  I call upon Mr. Milev, delegate of Bulgaria.
46, Mr. MILEV (Bulgaria) (Translation from the  French): H  Mr. President, ladies and gentle’den, at the last  meeting of the General Conference 1 spoke about the  International Radio and Television Organization, the  headquarters of which is in Prague. You will re-  member that we requested that this organization be  granted consultative and not observer status with  Unesco. Two years have gone by, and we can now  express our satisfaction that the Executive Board  has understood that the time has come to grant a  special status to this organization, which is a truly  international one, is particularly active, and includes  dozens of national radio and television organizations,  But although we rejoice at the step taken by the  Executive Board, it is a very timid step, We should  like the Executive Board and the General Conference  to go a little further and not only grant the  International Radio and Television Organization  ohserver status, but approve it for consultative  arrangements. We ask this because of the inter-  national nature of this organization which has con-  tributed, and is still contributing, very effectively  to Unesco's activities. In short, I would like to  expi28s our firm wish that the General Conference  should go a little further than the proposal made by  the Executive Board and approve the International  Radio and Television Organization for consultative  arrangements with Unesco.
47,1 Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom),  Chairman of the Executive Board:  Mr, President, I would like to help the members  of the General Conference, if possible, to have  clearer ideas about the matter which is under dis-  cussion, I know that members of the Conference are  aware of the fact that there are non-governmental  organizations that enjoy consultative status andother  non-governmental organizations not enjoying con-  sultative status who are anxious to send observers to  the General Conference, It would be extremely  helpful, I think, if the members of the General
1V  Conference could bear those cutegories very dis-  tinetly in mind, 1 shall therefore try to help you to  appreciate what is the position of each, in order that  you may come to a decision,
47.2 To take the first - those enjoying consultative  status : I want to inform the members of the Confer -  ence, as some of them who have a particular interest  in administrative questions will know, that the posi-  tion of these non-governmental organizations seeking  and enjoying consultative status is a matter which will  be considered by the Administrative Commission.  This is so because the Administrative Commission  has been instructed to consider the directives which  will lay down the criteria for non-governmental  organizations to qualify for consultative status,  Have 1 made that point clear? In the present Confer-  ence, then, the Administrative Commission will  receive from the Executive Board certain suggestions  with regard to directives that should be applied in  order to decide whether organizations may enjoy  consultative status, Accordingly, the Executive  Board has decided that at present, while the direc-  tives are in suspense, and awaiting the decision  of the Administrative Commission for later approval  by the General Conference, it would be inappropriate  to add any other new organizations to the consultative  category, An addition of any new organization to con-  sultative status, Is, 1 suggest, ruled out by the fact  that the directives concerning the qualifications of  organizations for consultative status are at present  under discussion, and until we have cleared those in  the Administrative Commission and later in the  General Conference, questions of admission to con-  sultative status must remain in suspense. Therefore,  only those organizations now enjoying consultative  status can, for the purpose of this Conference, be  regarded as qualified to enjoy consultative status,  If 1 have carried the members of the General Confer-  ence with me on that particular matter, I am sure  that they will appreciate that any suggestion for add-  ing new organizations to the list of those enjoying  consultative status is at the moment inappropriate,  That is point no, 1,
47.3 Point no, 2 concerns the report that 1 sub-  mitted to you on behalf of the Executive Board, which  dealt with observers only, that is to say with non-  governmental organizations who have not been put  on the list of those enjoying consultative status, but  who wish to send observers to this Conference. There  are ten of them and four foundations to which we have  already referred. Here I must draw your attention  to our Constitution and, if you have your copies  before you, 1 would like to refer you to article 4,  sub-section 13, "the General Conference on the  recommendation of the Executive Board and by a two-  thirds majority, may, subject to ite Rules of Pro-  cedure, invite as observers" and sn on, Thus, the  Executive Board has to make a recommendation to  you, and the Executive Board recommends these ten  in addition to the four foundations,
47,4 The interpretation hitherto adopted has been  that the recommendation of the Executive Board must  be a positive recommendation, that those who are  listed are positively recommended to you and no others.  Consequently, at this stage, we are again prevented from  adding tothe list,because additions tothe list require  a positive recommendation on the part of the Board.   IV PLENARY MEETINGS
47,5 ‘The additional point that 1 wish to make ig that  at its very last session, and I admit it was a very  busy one, the Executive Board addreswed itself to  thin matter. It considered that the time had now  come - it was Thursday and the Conference was to  bejjin on Monday - to draw a line somewhere, A  resolution was put to the Executive Board that the  lire be drawn and, for the purpose of this General  Conference, the Executive Board decided that it was  not prepared to consider any new applications for  admission as observers,
47.6 I hope, Mr. President, that I have helped the  members of the Conference to understand the com-  plete difference between those enjoying consultative  status and observers, and also'the limitation that  rests upon us now with regard to the admiasion of  observers, The Executive Board has drawn a line  and no more observers can be idmitted without a  positive recommendation from the Executive Board.  I therefore urge the members of the Conference to  adopt the recommendations of the Executive Board  in this matter,
48.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French) :  You have heard the explanations given by the  Chairman of the Executive Board. As regards Item
5 of the agenda, the General Conference is required  to vote on the recommendations of the Executive  Board contained in documents 11 C/6 and Addenda  I and II, dealing with the admission of observers  from non-governmental organizations to the present  session.
48.2 A two-thirds majority is required, I shall  therefore ask the Conference to refer to the recom-  mendations of the Executive Board contained in the  three documents mentioned above and to vote on  these recommendations, Voting will be by a show  of hands,  (Voting was by a show of hands)
48.3 Here are the results of the vote: 56 in  favour of the adoption of the recommendations of the  Executive Board, with two abstentions, The recom-  mendations of the Executive Board are therefore  adopted.  ADMISSION OF ASSOCIATE MEMBERS OF THE ORGANIZATION
48.4 I now call upon the Director-General, who  will submit recommendations regarding the admis-  sion of three new Associate Members, namely  Ruanda-Urundi, Tanganyika and Mauritius.
49. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL (Translation from  the French):  Mr, President,ladies and gentlemen, inaccordance  with Article II, paragraph 3 of the Constitution and  Rule 92,paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference,l now cometothe question of the  admissionto Associate Membership of the Organization  of the Territories of Ruanda-Urundi, Mauritius and  Tanganyika, Ihave received fromthe Belgian Foreign  Minister and fromthe Under-Secretary of State for  Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom requests in due  form forthe admission of these Territories as Associate  Members. At its 57th session, the Executive Board ;
94  authorizedthe Director-General to invitethese Terri-  tories to sendobserverstothe eleventh session of the  General Conference, Observers fromthese Territories  are, therefore, nowpresent, inthis hall and I am happy  to welcome them, Under Article 1L3 of the Constitution  and Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure, a two-thirds  majority vote by the General Conference is required  for their admission. .
50. The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe French):  I call upon Sir David Eccles, Head of the delega-  tion of the United Kingdom,
51.1 Sir David ECCLES (United Kingdom) :  Mr. President, I personally congratulate you on  your election, It gives the United Kingdom delega-  tion great pleasure that a representative of Africa  should have been chosen, It is now my duty, and a  very pleasant one, as Head of the United Kingdom  delegation to declare my Government's sponsorship  for associate membership of Unesco of two more of  the territories for whose international rélations the  United Kingdom Government is responsible, These  are Mauritius and Tanganyika,
51.2 It is the settled policy of my Government to  encourage colonial governments to seek associate  membership as soon as they feel able to take advantage  of this great privilege, and the results of that policy  are here on the benches today. It has been our  practice to help the territories under our adminis-  tration, as rapidly as possible, to the full manage-  ment of their own affairs, and then to full independ-  ence with the hope and the belief that they will wish  to remain within the Commonwealth, As the delegates  here know, Sierra Leone, the West Indies and  Singapore are already Associate Members, and the  first two are represented at this Conference.
51.3 Nigeria, formerly an Associate Member,  like Ghana and Malaya before it, is now happily  entitled to ask for full membership, and this morning  we had a most excellent speech from the Minister of  Education of Nigeria, Today Mauritius and Tanganyika  come to join us as Associate Members. Both these  territories have the experience and the maturity which,  as we know from our dealings with them, make them  able and, I am certain, eager to participate in  Unesco's work, 1am very glad to see their Minis-  ters of Education here, Mr. Beejadhur and Mr.  Kambona ; they will I am sure prove very welcome  colleagues. Therefore, Mr. President, with con-  fidence I ask the General Conference to agree that  Mauritius and Tangañyika be admitted to Associate  Membership.
52, The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe French):  I call upon the representative of Mauritius,
53.1 Mr, BEEJADHUR (Mauritius):  Mr. President, on behalf of the Mauritius Govern-  ment I would like to thank Sir David Eccles for having  sponsored our application for admission to Unesco and
1 would like to thank the Conference for its acceptance  of Mauritius as an Associate Member of the Organiza-  tion. I wish to assure the Conference that Mauritius  accepts, and will fulfil, the obligations of an Associate  Member. Mauritius is a small island, only some
720 square miles in arca, with big problems, The   PLENARY  biggest and most urgent of these problems is that  resulting from the rapld increase of our population  which has taken place in the past 15 yesva, largely  owing to the success of public health measures and,  in particular, to the eradication of malaria, We have  always had a fairly high birth-rate and now we have  a low death-rate, For example, for the years
1944-1948 the number of deaths of infants under one  year of age per 1,000 live births averaged 154.9,  while by 1959 it had dropped to 62,5, This rapid  increase in population has had a particular impact  on the field of education. Of a population now num-  bering some 631,000, some 279,000 - that is about
44% - are under the age of 15.
53,2 The Conference will appreciate what this  means in terms of providing schooling for our  children, yet the record of progress during the past  ten years has been an impressive one. Our total  current expenditure on education represents about
14. 5% of our national budget and 3% of our national  income, Of about 125,000 children of primary school  going age, that is between the ages of 5 and 12, about
110,000 are in government and aided primary schools,  while of the rest a fair proportion find places in private  schools, athough there is no compulsory education in  Mauritius. The urge for education in Mauritius is so  great that all parents, rich or poor, see that their  children get some kind of education, and it is esti-  mated that about 85% of the people are literate in  English and French, both of which languages are  compulsory school subjects, in addition to other  normal primary school subjects, Further, at the  option of parents, children in the government and  primary alded schools may be {aught one of four  Oriental languages : Hindi, Urdu, Tamil or Telugu.  In the field of secondary education Mauritius is a  little backward.
53.3 There are three government grammar schools,  one of which is for girls, one technical institute, and  the Government subsidizes also eight church schools.  The private secondary schools, which number 61, are  of a rather lower standard owing to the lack of trained  teachers, Unfortunately much of the ground gained  at the primary school stage ie subsequently lost for  lack of facilities for further education and there Is  a tendency to relapse into illiteracy,
53,4 In Mauritius, as elsewhere, the problem of  youth does not end with the last term at school, But,  in Mauritius it in especially acute, for our country  is an agricultural! country, and despite efforts to  achieve some diversification, its economy is stil  almost wholly dependent on one crop - sugar, Ef-  ficlent and expanding though our main industry is,  and notwithstanding the ability of our scientists,  geography alone must confine the possible further  expansion of our sugar industry within comparatively  narrow limits, The practical consequences of this  are that employment opportunities lag far behind the  increasing demands of thousands of young people  leaving our schools every year. Within this general  problem we hive in Mauritius, as elsewhere, the  speclal problem uf the educated youths whorepresent  the surplus aspirants to white-collar jobs which do  not, and caniiot ever, exist.
53.5 Finally, there is the social problem which  has been with us for years,and which also is not  unknown in other countries. The population of
95  MEETINGS {V  Mauritius is composed of people of very different  racial origins - from Europe from the Indian con-  tinent, from Africa, and from China - and of many  creeds - Hindus, Muslims, Roman Catholics,  Anglicans, Buddhists, and others. Each community  has a rich cultural heritage and naturally tends to  cling to its own language and traditions, but this is  often at the expense of national unity, It is our  object to weave these various strands into a national  fabric, to achieve what we call in Mauritius a  Mauritian entity, We must gear our educational  system to this end, and we know we have much to  learn from the experience of others,
53.6 Sir, if I have referred briefly to some of the  major problems facing Mauritius, it 1s because we  know we are not without friends upon whose under-  standing and readiness to help we can count, If  evidence of this were needed, it could be found in  the approval given by the Conference today to the  admission of Mauritius as an Associate Member of  the Organization, and in the patience with which the  representatives of so many nations have listened  while the representative of the Mauritius Govern-  ment made his début on the international scene.
53,7 Mr. President, 1 would like to end by quoting  a great French poet who lived and fought for those  lofty ideals which your predecessor so eloquently  outlined in his speech on Monday and for which  Unesco stands, Lamartine sald:  "Je suis le concitoyen de tout homme qui pense,  L'univers est mon pays"
54.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 consider that you haÿen by your applause, ap-  proved the admission of Mauritius as an Associate  Member of Unesco.
55,1 Mr, KAMBONA (Tanganyika) :  Mr. President, ladles and gentlemen, I am  honoured to represent Tanganyika at this session ~f  the General Conference of Unesco and to have the  privilege of addressing members on the occasion of  Tanganylka's admission as an Associate Member.  I come as an elected member of the Legislative  Council and as Minister of Education to express my  country's thanks to Her Majesty's Government in the  United Kingdom for her sponsorship, and to the  Organization for accepting us as an Associate Mem-  ber, We in Tanganyika are aware of the close inter-  est which the Organization has shown from year to  year In the development of our country, Nevertheless,  it may not be out of place to sketch briefly the  development of education in the Territory, Although’  the beginning of African education dates from 100  years ago, it was not until the 1920's that an organ-  ized system of education began to develop, A period  of rapid expansion following the report of the Phelps-  Stokes Commission of 1924 was succeeded in the
1930's by a period of political uncertainty and of  finencial stringency allowing little advance. Real  progress was not resumed until after the Second  World War when a ten-year plan for education was  approved providing fora 4-year primary course, to  be followed, for selected pupils, by a 4-year middle  course. The aim of the middle school course was to   IV PLENARY MEETINGS  provide a general education which would not only pre-  pare the best pupils for further education or training,  but would be of value to as many as possible of those  who would not be proceeding further and who needed  a general practical course to fit then to become  useful citizens in the country and environment, either  rural or urban, to which they belong.  $5.2 The ten-year plan was followed by a 6-year  plan which, it became apparent, for financial reasons,  would have to be spread over seven years. The aim  of the plan was to raise academic standards and to  expand middle and secondary education. Secondary  facilities exist at present for only one in every five  of those completing the middle school course, and  it is on remedying this state of affairs that the  Government proposes to concentrate, as a fifth  priority, the new plans it is making for the next  three years. Without many more school certificate  holders, we shall be unable to send on to higher  education the numbers needed to fill higher posts  inside and outside the public service, Nor shall we  be able to train the number of teachers of the quality  we need for secondary education.
55.3 It is for this reason that we plan to increase  the number of our candidates for school certificates  from 342 in 1959 to 2,275 in 1964. We can do it,  but we can only do it if we get the teachers we need.  East Africa cannot supply our needs and we must  look elsewhere, The British Commonwealth is alive  to the importance of secondary education in develop-  ing territories and the more advanced countries in  the Commonwealth are already taking steps to  facilitate movement of secondary teachers to coun-  tries like my own. We need them and we welcome  them. The plans on which all three East African  Governments have agreed for the development of  higher education in East Africa for the next five  years envisage the early establishment of a Univer-  sity College in Tanganyika toform, with the other  colleges in Kenya and in Uganda, a University of  East Africa. But these plans also require a vast  expansion of secondary output and this we must  achieve. We expect over each of the next three  years to need to recruit at least 100 teachers abroad;  the nuraber will probably be nearer 150 and may be
200. Half of these must be graduates if, In a rapidly  expanding system, standards are to be maintained.  This 18 our prime need. We receive from many  nations offers of aid, of scholarships overseas, of  other kinds of help for post-secondary training. If  these nations can also make it possible for us to  produce enough secondary pupils, we shall be eble  and shall be glad to accept their offers. Without  their help we shall be unable to provide students of  the quality necessary to benéfit from the training  they can give, ‘
55.4 Before I leave the subject of education, 1  must also refer to another aspect of educational  development to which my Government attaches the  greatest importance. It is perhaps particularly  appropriate that I should mention this at a session  of the General Conference where members will he  considering the draft of a Convention against dis-  crimination in education. ‘Tanganyika has a pôpula-  tion of some 9 million Africans, but in addition  there are immigrant communities, the largest of  which is the Asian group numbering some 72,000.
96  The next largest is the Europtan group, numbering  some 20,000. Language and various colonial factors  have led to the development of separate school  systems for different races and groups of races.  These are paid for in small part by education taxes  imposed on a racial basis, The Government is  determined to replace this racial system of educa-  tion by a single system for the whole country and  plans for this have been drawn up, Secondary places  will be awarded on merit and no pupil will be pre-  vented from taking up his place because his parents  are unable to afford tu pay the fee. There are other  educational developments which I ought to mention to  give a full picture - agricultural education, girls"  education, technical education, teacher training,  but I propose now to leave the formal education  system.
55.5 1 would like to mention two developments which  constitute a beginning to a territory-wide growth of  interest in drama and in art. The British Council  has, over the past few years, organized through  schools and other groups a drama festival which now  draws participants of many cultures from all parts  of Tanganyika, Its diversity and increasing popula-  rity are a happy augury for future respect and under-  standing of the culture of others. In the field of art,  the Arts and Crafts Society has inaugurated our new  exhibition of school art which we hope will develop  into a real stimulus of interest both within the schools  and outside them.
55.6 Finally, a word about adult education. The  Tanganyika Government is pursuing a vigorous policy  of adult education in a modest sense, by the use of  community development methods, In urban areas,  "the aim is to enable the people to acquire the skills  necessary for a more developed and gracious way  of life. Attractive, well-built community centres  have been or are about to be built in all the larger  towns, These centres form afocal point of the social  and cultural life of thetowrs, Here women's classes  areheldin cookery, dressmaking, hygiene, child care  and similar subjects, Inthe evenings there areliter-  acy classes and classes in English and elementary  mathematics,all run by voluntary teachers, Inthe rural  areas, attentionis largely concentrated on massliteracy  campaigns and educationinhome economics and home-  craft subjects, through the medium of women's clubs,  The training of the teachers and supervisory staff for  these clubs hasbeen made possible by generous grants  fromthe United Nations International Children's Emer-  gency Fund, Although we needhelpinothel fields, for  example, the provision of visual aids both for formal and  adult education, and for which we should be very grateful  toreceive help frem Unesco, our great and overriding  need is the need fer teuchers.
55.7 I wanttoemphasizethis,sothatifyou go out to-  day and if you retnember that Tangenyika has been admit-  tedto Assoclate Membership, you will remember three  words - Tanganyika needs teachers, Tanganyika needs  teachers - and may this ring in your ears - Tanganyika  needs teachers | P
55.8  Webelleve that the path along which our country  io developing and the way in which our education is belng  developed, will enable us in the not distant future to make  inour ownturn a contributionthrough Unescoto other  countries inneed. Mr. President, I again express my  country's very great appreciation of the granting of   PLENARY UEETINGS  Associate Membership of Unesco, and | am very  proud that Tanganyika should be admitted at a time  when Africa has taken the Chair.
66.1 The PRESIDENT {Translation fromthe French):  I think that your applause authorizes meto declare  Tanganyika admitted as an Associate Member. .
66.2 I now call upon H, E, Mr, Kuypers, delsgatsof  Belgium, who will present the application cf Ruanda-  Urundl for admission to Associate Membership,
67.1 Mr. KUYPERS (Belgium) (Translation from  the French) :  Mr. Frosident, the Belgian Government is happy  to present and support the application of Ruanda-  Urundi for admission to Associaté Membership of the  United National Educational, Scientific and Cultural  Organization, In view of the objectives which Unesco  has set itself, it is likely to have a favourable influ-  ence on the last stage of the political evolution which  should lead this Territory to independence, in accord-  ance with undertakings given by Belgium, a signatory  to the Charter of United Nations and to the Trustee-  ship Agreement,
57.2 In a territory such as this, which has difficult  social problems to face, our Organization, by advo-  cating universal respect for human rights and funda-  mental freedoms, can give assistance in the neces- -  gary training for the democratic exercise of the  prerogatives of full independence, which is now near  at hand, Since Ruanda-Urundi's resources are small  in comparison with the requirements of its large  population, the help and co-operation which it is  entitled to expect from our Organization as an  Associate Member will be u useful supplement to the  financial and technical assistance which my country,  as the Administering Authority, has always given  this Territory in order to foster its doclal and  cultural progress - an assistance to which several  reports of the Executive Board to the Trusteeship  Council of the United Nations bear witness,
57.3 These ara the reasons which have determined  my Government urgently to request the General  Conference, at its éleventh session, to admit Ruanda-  Urund{ as an Assoclate Member of the United Nations  Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization,
58.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  As the representative of Ruanda-Urundi has ex-  pressed the desire to address the Conference later,  I now put the question of the admission of this Terri-  tory as an Associate Member to the Conference.
58.2  Ruanda-Urundi is admitted as an Associate  Member of Unesco.
58.3 -Icailupon Mr. Azimov, delegate of the Union  of Soviet Socialist Republics.
59.1 Mr, AZIMOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian) :  Mr. President, fellow delegates, the delegation  of the Soviet Union warmly welcomes the desire of  thé peoples of Ruanda-Urundi, Mauritius and  Tanganyika to become members of Unesco. The  Soviet delegation, however, wishes to see them  admitted to Unesco, not as Associate Members  deprived of voting rights, but as full Members  enjoying all the rights and powers conferred on
97  . à just decision.  IV  Member States of Unesco under the latter's Constitu-  tion.
69.2 The Soviet delegation listened with great  satisfaction to the speeches by the representatives  of Mauritius and Tanganylka, in which we sensed the  desire for freedom and independence. But we also  heard another speech, made by the Belgian repre-  sentative who, instead of championing the right of  these peoples to complete freedom, presents Ruanda-  Urundi to uk, at the General Conference, as an  Assoclate Member, We consider that this is an  affront to the honour of free, independent peoples,
59.3 In this connexion, the Soviet delegation is of  the opinion that the distinction at preaent made, by  the Constitution of Unesco as well as by the Organiza-  tion in practice, belween Member Scates and Associate  Members is not only incompatible with the principles  of the equality of rights of peoples and nations and  their right to self-determination, as solemnly pro-  claimed in the Charter of the United Nations, but is  a serious departure from them, All nations have  equal rights, and this equality is not granted to them  but is inseparable from national sovereignty.
59,4 Unfortunately, we are obliged to note that  certain nations and peoples still remain in a state of  dependency. The sovereign rights of those peoples  are flagrantly usurped by the colonial powers which  continue presumptuously to consider that the peoples  falling under their domination are incapable of exer-  cising their own rights Independently, The imperialiat-  colonizers found it necessary to make this assertion  in order to conceal the fact that they had established  a régime for the oppresaion and open plundering of  the dependent peoples. , However, the irresistible  will to life and particularly the recent happy events  in Africa comnpletely confute this absurd agsertion,
59,5 An ever greater number of dependent coun-  tries are becoming aware of thelr strength; many  of them have already thrown off the colonial yoke  and have taken the path of free and independent  development. Some of these countries have already  become members of Unesco and we have had the joy  of welcoming them among us, The delegations of  “these countries together with the delegations of all  oiher countries discuss and settie the serious prob-  lems falling within the competence of Unesco. This  shows once again that they are completely capable of  carrying out the functions of their States in mattera  of foreign policy.
59.6 It may be asked why t the peoples of Ruanda-  Urundi, Mauritius and Tanganyika cannot be full  Members of Unesco and, like all the Organization's  Member States, take part in the settlement of the  problems which are common to’all peorles, Why ‘  does Unesco, whose mission is to combat every kind  of discrimination, itself contribute to this discrimin-  ation and thus allow itself to be led by the colonial  powers?
59,7 Is it not time to put a definite end to this  injustice and to show proper respect for these people's  rights, unlawfully taken away from thém and usurped  by the colonial powers? We are of the opinion that  the General Conference would be acting correctly if,  at the present session, it took a decision whereby  Ruanda-Urundi, Mauritius and Tanganyika would be  admitted as full Members of Unesco. That would be  Unesco would show, by deeds and   IV  not by words, that it champions the cause of real  equality between great and small nations and rejects  all discrimination which is a survival of the shameful  colonial system,  U9.8 The delegation of the USSR calls on the General  Conference to adopt draft resolution 130 concerning  the change of the status of Associate Members of  Unesco into that of full Members of the Organization.  Allow me to read out, on behalf of the Soviet delega-  tion, the draft resolution submitted by the USSR in  regard to changing the status of Associate Members  of Unesco :  "The General Conference,  Guided by the democratic principles of the equality  of rights of nations and peoples and their right toself-  determination,  Desirous of assisting in every way the immediate  application of the "Declaration on the Granting of  Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples",  Condemning colonialism in all its manifestations  and forms,  Recognizing that all the peoples represented in  Unesco must enjoy equal rights and advantages  arising from their membership of Unesco,  Decldes to change the status of Associate Mem-  bers of Unesco into that of full Members of the  Organization,  Resolves to revise the Constitution of Unesco and  the relevant Rules of Procedure accordingly,  Solemnly declares {ts readiness to glve favourable  consideration to applications for admission &s full  Members of Unesco from countries engaged in a ;  struggle for their national independence and freedom",
59,9 Mr, President, I requestthat this draft  resolution be considered at a meeting of the General  Committee.
60.1 The PRESIDENT (Translationfromthe French):  Since the proposal of the delegate of the Soviet  Union 18 not on the agenda, the draft resolution will  be referred to tha General Committee,
(0.2 We shall now pass on to the next item on the  agenda.  ADMISSION OF NEW HEMBER STATES OF THE ORGANIZATION ¢  KUWAIT
60.3 1 cell upon the Chairman of the Executive  Board.
61. Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom),  Chairman of the Executive Board :  Mr. President and fellow members, I have to  report that at our recent session immediately pre-  ceding the General Conference, the Executive Board  considered an application from Kuwait for member-  ship of Unesco and unanimously adopted the following  resolution: "The Executive Board, considering that  the Government of Kuwait applied for membership of  Unesco on 25 April 1960, considering that the  Director-General, in accordance wi:h Article 2 of  the agreement between the United Nations and  Unesco, forwarded the application to the Secretary-  General of the United Nations for consideration by  the Economic and Social Council, considering that  the Economic and Social Council at its 30th session  PLENARY
98  MEETINGS  decided that it had no objection to the admission of  Kuwait to the Organization, decides in accordance  with Article 2 of the Constitution of Unesco, to  recommend to the General Conference at its eleventh  session, that Kuwait be admitted to membership of  the Organization". On behalf of the Board, Mr,  President, ! wish to bubmit that resolution,
62. The PRESIDENT (Translationfromthe French):  I call upon Sir David Eccles, Head of the delega-  tion of the United Kingdom.
63. Sir David ECCLES (United Kingdom) ;  Mr, President, delegates, on behalf of Her  Majesty's Government 1 should like to support this  application from Kuwait for full membership of  Unesco, 1 expect many delegates, like us in the  United Kingdom, have admired the progress that  Kuwait has made in a great many directions in recent  years, and not least in the field of education, If any  honourable delegate has been there; he or she will  have seen what a good record in the building of  modern schools Kuwait has got, They are well  worth seeing, Kuwait is responsible for the conduct  of its international relations and the rapid evolution  of the Kuwaiti State has enabled it to participate  increasingly and usefully in the work of the Speclal-  ized Agencies, For these reasons Her Majesty's  Government considers that Kuwait is amply qualified  for the status of full membership, which is now  requested, We ere confident that this Conference  will welcome this important small State to full  membership,
64, The PRESIDENT (Translationfromthe French):  I call upon H,E. Mr. Awad, delegate of the United  Arab Republic),
65.1 Mr, AWAD (United Arab Republic):  Mr, President, I think you should consider your-  self lucky because I did not ask to speak on the  question of the African States which have applied for  associate membership. I happen to be a specialist  in African affairs and a Director of an African insti-  tute, and therefore I might be capable of keeping the  Conference busy listening to my lecture until to-  morrow morning. To make matters easy I shall  confine my remarks to Kuwait, Nothing gives me  greater pleasure, nor can give any family greater  pleasure, than the acquisition of offspring. The  Arab family ls particularly happy to welcome Kuwait  to this great Organization; its entrance is a twofold  gain to the Arab people and to Unesco,
66.2 There are several ways of entering Unesco,  and Kuwait has chosen to enter in the grand manner,  first though the Economic and Social Council, re-  ceiving the first welcome there, Then it received  a second welcome from the Executive Board, Now  the third welcome, when Kuwait is accepted with a  warm and affectionate embrace in the bosom of our  Organization, I suppose you all realize that Kuwait  is not a big power, in fact Kuwait is rather a small  power with no territorial ambitions. It has no wish  to make any conquests and the idea that it desires to  conquer the sub-continent of India, or Australia  including Tasmania, is entirely devoid of truth,
65.3 Kuwait is not a colonial power, it is a very   PLENARY MEETINGS  hard working country and very progressive, Before  modern economic developments had brought new  wealth, Kuwait was particularly interested in fishing  for pearls in Arabian waters as its main income,  Now, in happier days, Kuwait will gather the new  pearls of international cultural relations, Mr, Presi-  dent, { hope that we will accept Kuwait as a full  Member of this Organization in the same manner as  it was accepted in the Executive Board, with unani-  mous acclamation,
66,1 The PRESIDENT (Translationfromthe French):  Kuwait is admitted as the 85th full Member of  Unesco,
66.2 I now call upon Mr, Dabbagh, representative  of Kuwait,
67.1 Mr, DABBAGH (Kuwait) 1  Mr. President, fellow delegates, two ycars ago a  member of the Kuwaiti delegation had the honour of  taking this rostrum to express the gratitude of Kuwait  for being admitted as an Associate Member of Unesco,  It glves us great satisfaction now to take this same  rostrum again on the occasion of being accepted as a  full Member of the Organization, We feel we have  ample reason to indulge in a feeling of p2lde, satisfac-  tion and anticipation of the good that is to come as  the result of this decision yon have taken today, It  is not a little thing for a small country like ours to  discover that within two years il has come of age and  is admitted on the same fooling as the other big  nations of the world into full membership of such  an international organization as Unesco, That is  such an enjoyable experience as only small countries  can go through, To these countries I can assume it  represents a step forward in the road towards a new  world - a world which is the hope of humanity, in  which the dignity of man is preserved and in which  nations are measured not in terms of their ability to  destroy, but by their determination to co-operate for the  advancement of all that is noble in man's heritage.  Allow me then to extend to you all the gratitude of  the Government of Kuwait for allowing us to take  our geat among you,
67.2 Our anticipation of the good to come is based  on more solid grounds, During the last two years,  we sought help from Unesco on more than one occa-  sion. The help given was always prompt and invalu-  able in whatever field it happened to be -'1" the  reorganization of our public and school libraries,  in the erection of a new museum or in the foundation  of a new university. .
67.3 International organizations may be familiar  with the emerging small countries whose economic  potentialities cannot cope with the rapid pace of  educational and cultural development desired, The  need of such countries for international aid is ap-  parent. Kuwait's need for international co-operation  springs from another cause. The state of affluence  which the country enjoys has made it possible to  embark upon a number of educatioral and social  projects on a large scale. During the last decade  the school population, for instance, has been multi-  plied ninefold, There are proportionately more  children in the age groups of 6-12 years in the  schools of Kuwait than in any other country in the  Middle East. These children enjoy not only tuition,
1v  but school meals, clothing, and access to other  educational facilities as well, completely free, Such  an achievement could not have been made solely with  the money that we could afford; it was made possible  through co-operation with the sister Arab countries to  whom we owe a great debt,
67.4 It is with this belief in the need for and value  of co-operation among nations that we pledge our  word to adhere faithfully to boththe word and spirit  of Unesco's Constitution, We hope that our contribu-  tion, however small it may seem, will help torealize  the ideals of freedom, justice and international  collaboration which the Organization strives toachieve,  The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe French):
1 call upon Mr, Ndabagumiye, the representative  of Ruanda-Urundi,
69,1 Mr, NDABAGQUMIYE (Ruanda-Urundi)  (Translation from the French) :  It is with emotion that I express our gratitude, at  this solemn moment, to the United Nations Education-  al, Scientific and Cultural Organization for having  accepted Ruanda-Urundi as an Associate Member,
69.2 Ruanda-Urundi, which is a Trust Territory  of the United Nations, naturally had ite eyes turned  towards this international Organization which, atthe  present time, has acquired capital importance in  international life, My country is also interested in  all the institutions which form part of the great  United Nations system, And, in this connexion,  Unescohas pride of place,on account of the aims it  pursues and the supremely important nature of its task,
69.3 Ruanda-Urundl would also like to take this  opportunity of expressing its thanks to Belgium for  the good work she has done in the sphere of Unesco's  activities, thus making it possible for the Territory to  participate directly and independently in such activities,
69,4 Ruanda-Urundi is on the threshold of profound  changes in its political structure, for Belgium in-  tends, under the Trusteeship Agrzement, to lead the  Territory to independence during November 1962,  It is therefore more than ever necessary to train  staff who will be equal to their tasks and, here, the  competence and experience of Unesco can be of most  precious help, It is, however, even more important  that the education of the people and their political  emancipation should go forward hand in hand, if the  new Institutions are to be of benefit to all, This,  however, will require much effort.
69.5 All visitors to Africa are struck by the thirst  of its inhabitants for knowledge. This is particularly  true of us; your Organization, therefore, will find  that our country is fertile ground for the cultivation  of the seeds so energetically and generously sown by  Belgium in the fields of education, science and  culture. Without wishing to be presumptuous, I think
1 can say that, in return, the spreading of knowledge,  through Unesco, of our own particular forms of art  and civilization may well add some treasures to the  common heritage of mankind, Longlive Unescu andlong  live understanding between all the peoples of the world.
70. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 7.30 p. m.