THIRTY-FIRST PLENARY MEETING
15 December 1960, at 10,30 a.m,  President: Mr. Akale- Work ABTE- WOLD (Ethiopie)  CONTENTS ï  Adoption of the Report of the Working Party of the General ,  Conference on Methods of Preparing the Programme and  Budget ~ ~
484  Election of the members of the Headquarters Committee,  of the Legal Committee and of the Reports Committee. . 488  Adoption of the Addendum to the Report of the Programme  Commission "000 4 + 6 6€ 6 6 6 6 4 EE 0 0 0 0 1 + 95  Tribute to Mr. Jean Thomas, Agsistant Director-General  Close of the eleventh session of the General Conference . ,  ADOPTION OF THE REPORT OF THE WORKING PARTY OF THE  GIN (RAL CONFERENCE ON METHODS OF PREPARING THE  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
1.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Ladies and gentlemen, the last meeting of this  session is open, 1 hope that speakers will be brief,  so that we can finish by the end of the morning,
1,2 The fivot item on the agenda is the Report of  the Working Party of the General Conference on  Methods of Preparing the Programme and Budget,
1.3 I call upon the Chairman of the Working Party,  Professor Eek,
2,1  Party:  Mr, President, I have the honour to present to  you and to the General Conference the Report of the  Working Party of the General Conference on Methods  of Preparing the Programme and Budget, The report  is contained in document 11 C/47, which is divided  into two parts, The first part, the nine pages in the  English text, includes not a full, but I believe a fair  account of the very useful, interesting and searching  discussions which were held in the working group  during its five sessions. The second part contains  the three draft resolutions that the working group  recommends for your adoption, ’
2,2 With your permission, Mr. President, I shall  say a few words on the subject with which the latest  draft resolutions are concerned, But before doing  -80 I wish to refer to the last paragraph in the docu-  ment, paragraph 36. At its last meeting when it vas  about to adopt its report the Working Party received  a communication from the delegation of Canada con-  cerning the working methods of the General Confer-  ence, As the Working Party was unable to give ade-  quate consideration to this communication, it was  suggested that it be transmitted to the Executive  Board. Therefore this note from the delegation of  Mr. EEK (Sweden), Chairman of the Working
493  Canada would, just as the report of the Working Party  and the various draft resolutions which were dealt  with by tha Working Party, become documentation for  the forthcoming working group of the Executive Board  concerning methods of work of our Organization,
2,3 The first item referred to the Working Party  was the recommendations of the Executive Board and  the Director-General for further improvement of the  methods of preparing the programme and budget,  The reason for these proposals concerning the prepara-  tion of the nrogramme and budget for the years 1963-
1964, which are made on an experimental basis, is  the need for simplification of methods, The present  system obliges the Secretariat to begin the prepara-  tory work immediately after the close of the session  of the General Conference, that is, at the moment  when its main task is to initiate the operation of the  newly adopted programme, The preparation of a pre-  liminary draft and then of two successive versions of  the proposed programme and budget not only entails  heavy work for the Executive Board and the Secre-  tariat, but tends also to diminish the significance of  the consultations with Member States, Member  States and the other bodies concerned have not had an  adequate opportunity to consider the Organization's  future activities in their broad outlines and in the  proper perspective.
2.4 The Director-General tharefore, when he made  his proposal to the Executive Board, had worked out  a new procedure designed to avoid these disadvantages.  This procedure was unanimously approved by the  Executive Board and it was also approved by our  Working Party, The Working Party of the General  Conference therefore proposes the adoption of draft .  resolution no. 1 which includes in its first operative  paragraph a decision that the Proposed Programme  and Budget for 1963-1964 shall, as an experiment,  be prepared in accordance with the recommendations  formulated in this connexion by th» Tixecutive Board  and the Director-General.   PLENARY
2,5 When dealing with draft resolution no, 1 (docu-  ment 11 C/47 Annex) I also want to direct your atten-  tion to the last paragraph in which the Working Party  suggests to you that you decide to invite Member  States to transmit to the Director-General any pro-  posals or suggestiona they may wish to formulate  with regard to the questions discussed in the report  of the Working Party on methods of preparing the  programme and budget, This paragraph is intended  to refer not only to those Member States which are  represented in the Executive Board, but to all  Member States of our Organization who should, we  felt, be enlisted in the work of improving the work-  ing methods of the Qrganization as a whole,
2,6 The Working Party also diecussed a draft  resolution by the delegation of Brazil concerning the  procedure for the examination and approval of the  programme and budget of Unesco, This draft resolu-  tion was discussed in the Working Party, and as a  result of the discussion it was decided to propose to  the General Conference the adoption of draft resolu-  tion no,2. The Working Party suggests that the  General Conference should note that the proposal by  the delegation of Brazil raises a number of problems  of the greatest importance in relation to the function-  ing of the Organization, and it suggests that you  transmit the proposals to the Executive Board for  study and request the Board to report to you on the  subject at the twelfth session of the General Confer-  ence,
2,7 In addition, three draft resolutions concerning  methods of work of Unesco were referred to the  Working Party: one by the delegations of  Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden; one by the  delegation of Iran; and one by the delegation of  Switzerland, 3
2.8 The Working Party proposes that the General  Conference adopt draft resolution no,3 which deals  with the three draft resolutions I have just rnentioned.  In the first part of draft resolution no,3, the Working  Party proposes that the General Conference note with  satisfaction "the intention of the Executive Board to  undertake a general study of the Organization's  methods of work and of the functioning of its various  organs, with a view to solving certain current prob-  lems’. Here the Working Group thought that the  General Conference should take note of the fact tha!  the Executive Board has expressed its intention of  making, during the two years to come, a thorough  study of the working methods of the Organization as  a whole. The Working Party further considered that  the du'aft resolutions submitted to it concern, in one  respect or another, the work methods of our Organiza-  tion and, it therefore wished the subject matter of  these three draft resolutions to be included in the  study to be underiaken by the Executive Board. That  is the meaning of draft resolution no.3 which has  been submitted to you,
3.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French):  On behalf of the Conference, I should like to thank  Professor Eek and the members of the Working  Party who took part in preparing the draft report  which you have before you.
3.2 Icall upon H.E. Dr, Raadi, Head of the  Iranian delegation.  MEETINGS
4,1 Mr, RAADI (Iran) (Translation from the  French):  Mr. Preaident, it is with some uneasiness and a  certain reluctance that I rise to address you since I  know that we are pressed for time, But the question  under consideration is, I think, so important that I  would feel certain soruples about remaining silent,
4,2 At this, its last plenary meeting, the Confer-  ence has before jt the Report of the Working Party on  Methods of Preparing the Programme and Budget  (document 11 C/47), I have the honour of belonging  to that Working Party, and I should like to take this  opportunity of paying tribute to its Chairman, Mr, Eek,  who conducted our discussions with great patience and  understanding,
4,3 Nevertheless, as stated in paragraph 33 of  document 11 C/47, I could not agree with the majority  of the Working Party on several of the items discussed,  nor indeed on the contents of the Report, and there-  fore reserved the right to raise the matter in plenary  meeting, more especially as no minutes of our dis-  cussions were taken, nor, as some of us had thought,  were our discussions in the Working Party recorded.
4,4 The Report comprises two separate parts, the  first concerning the recommendations of the Executive  Board and the Director-General for further improve-  ment of the methods of preparing the pregramme and  budget, and the second dealing with various resolu-  tions submitted by the delegations of Brazil, the  Scandinavian countries, Switzerland and Iran,
4.5 As the Roport makes clear, the majority of the  Working Parly approved the recommendations of the  Executive Board and the Director-General, and pro-  posed that the General Conference put them into  effect, on an ex wrimental basis, in 1961,
4.6 Nevertheiess, as stated at the end of paragraph
10, sub-paragraph (d}, "another speaker thought that  the proposals contained in document 11 C/20 were  useful but were only palliative measures; and that a  more thorough-going reform was necessary". With-  out revealing the identity of that speaker, I shall  merely say that the new methods contsmplated whilst  having some merits from the poinl of view of simpli-  fication, do not seem to me likely to bring about any  appreclable 17 .provement in the present procedure,  which is too jomplex, In fact, in document 11 c/28  and Add. {Re‘ommendations of the Executive Board  and the Dirertor-General), the faults are clearly  enough revealed, but the remedies suggested hardly  seem sufficienily appropriate. ;
4,7 Mr, President, in view of the anxiety to con-  clude this closing meeting, I should like as far as  possible to avoid initiating a discussion such as, in  other circumstai.ces, I would have considered abso-  lutely essential. But the Committee's Report, des-  pite the pratseworthy efforts of our distinguished  Rapporteur, has, as the Working Party's Chairman  pointed out, failed to provide an accurate summing  up of the discussions, especially as regards the  Iranian draft resolution, As a result, I am very  much afraid that if the Report is tranamitted on  my behalf to the Executive Board in its present  form, it may provoke an unfavourable reaction to  the ideas contained in that draft - particularly as  the Report embodies objections to our draft with-  out sufficiently stressing the well-founded support  of certain members of the group, or the statement   XXXI1 PLENARY  and the answers to the objections which I made  within the Working Party.
4.8 Mr, President, I would refer to paragraph 33  of document 11 C/47 in which I reserved the right to  bring up this question in plenary meeting, but at the  same time I recognize the circumstances and thu fact  that we are all eager to conclude the eleventh session  of the General Conference this morning; I should like  therefore, to suggest three possible solutions; the  first {s that you should allow me to try the Conference's  patience by reading a lengthy text; the second is that  I should read only part of my comments; the third is  that I should submit these commenta to you without  reading them and request you to convey them officially  to the Executive Board on behalf of the Conference,  In the latter two cases, however - namely, a partial  reading or transmission to the Executive Board with-  out a reading - 1 should expect you to rule that the  comments be included in full in the verbatim record  of this plenary meeting.
4,9 Finally, Mr, President, while awaiting your  decision, whatever it may be, I should like to intro-  duce two slight amendments to draft resolution no.3  which appears on page 11 of document 11 C/47,
5,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  You have heard Mr, Raadi's three suggestions:  the reading of twelve pages of text, a partial reading  of his comments, or transmission of the text without  any reading, If there are no objections, it might be  best to adopt the third of these proposals.
5.2 Mr, Legassov, delegate of the Soviet Union,  wishes to speak and I now call upon him,
6,1 Mr, LEGASSOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian);  Mr, President, distinguished delegates, an import-  ant number of delegates attended the Working Party  which studied the proposals of the different delegations,  including those of Iran,
6.2 The Working Party devoted much time to a dis-  cussion of the proposals of the Iranian delegation,  and Mr. Raadi explained his proposals carefully and  in great detail and demonstrated how advisable it was  to approve them, A detailed assessment of these  proposals, the remarks made by the delegates in the  Working Party, and Mr. Raadi's answers to these  remarks are contained in the document which you have  before you, namely, the Report of the Working Party.  I propose that you approve the last of Mr. Raadi's  proposals, i.e. to hand over the document of the  Iranian delegation for study by the Executive Board.  This in effect is what the Working Party proposes.
7.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe French):  If there are no objections, I think we will adopt  the third solution,
7.2 I call upon H.E. Dr. Raadi, Head of the Iranian  delegation,
8.1 Mr. RAADI (Iran) (Translation from the  French):  If I understand correctly, Mr, President, you  have adopted the third solution. I therefore bow to  your decision, on the ünderstanding that the full text  of my comments will, of course, be included in the  verbatim record of this meeting.
8.2 But as I just mentioned, Mr. President, I also  wish to submit two slight amendments to draft resolu-  tion no.3, on page 11 of document 11 C/47;: it concerns  the trar.zmiseion to the Executive Board of the Working  Party's Report and the draft resolutions. I propose  the insertion of a special paragraph requesting the  Director-Géneral to refer to the Executive Board not  only the draft resolutions and the Report in question,  but also all the points raised by delegations, whether  theybelonged tothe Working Partyor not, at plenary  meetings or meetings of subsidiary organs which  were directly or indirectly concerned with the subject  of document 11 C/47 - i.e, Methods of Preparing the  Programme and Budget, For mort of the delegations  advanced very interesting views bût, as they were  not members of the Working Party, these may be  slightly forgotten unless a summary of them is com-  municated to the Executive Board,
8,3 My second amendment is even simpler: I pro-  pose that the last paragraph reading "Invites the  Executive Board to submit to the General Conference  at its twelfth session" be altered to read "Invites the  Executive Board and the Director-General to submit  to the General Conference ...". I propose this addi-  tion because we all know that, under the Constitution  and various provisions of the Financial Regulations,  the preparation of the programme and budget {s mainly  the responsibility of the Director-General, subject,  naturally, to the observations of the Executive Board  which, for its part, is responsible to the General  Conference for the execution of the programme, In  addition, I should like to draw your attention to the  fact that even document 11 C/29 is entitled "Recom-  mendations of the Executive Board and the Director-  General for Further Improvement of the Methods ....
1 should therefore like to sce a certain agreement  between the Constitution and the practice of the  Executive Board which is reflzcted in this document.
9.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French): -  If there are no objections, I shall consider the  third solution proposed by Dr. Raadi as adopted, 1  therefore ask Dr, Raadi to hand his comments to the  Secretariat for transmission to the Executive Board, (1)  If no one else wishes to speak to the Report, I shall  consider it as adopted.
9.2 The Report of the Working Party on Methods of  Preparing the Programme and Budget is adopted.
9.3 We will now go on to draft resolution no. 1  (document 11 C/47 Annex). Are there any objections  to the adoption of this draft resolution? Draft resolu-  tion no.1 is adopted,
9.4 Draft resolution no. 2 (document 11 C/47, Annex).  Are there any objections to the $doption of this draft?  Draft resolution no. 2 is adopted.
9.5 We must now consider draft resolution no.3.  Two amendments have been submitted by Dr. Raadi.  I shall ask the Secretary of the General Conference  to read these.
10,1 Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) (Translation  from the French):  Mr. President, the first amendment consists of  ingerting a new paragraph between the second and
(1) The full text of the commentsby H.E, Dr. Raadi,  Head of the Iranian delegation, isannexedtothisrecord.   PLENARY  third paragraphs to read as follows: "'Requests the  Director-General to refer to the Executive Board  not only the draft resolutions and the above-mentioned  Report of the Working Party, but also all the points  raised by delegations at plenary meetings or meetings  of subsidiary organs which were directly or indirectly  concerned with the questions dealt with in document
10,2 The second amendment relates to the last  paragraph and would result in the following text:  "Invites the Executive Board and the Director-  General to submit .,.". The rest of the paragraph  would remain unchanged.  ’
11,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe French};  I shall ask the Chairman of the Working Party  whether he wishes to raise any objections or make  any observations.
11,2 The Chairman of the Working Party does not  wish to speak, Are there any delegates who wish to  speak to this amendment?
11,3 No delegates wish to speak and I shall there-  fore call for a vote on the first amendment read by  the Secretary of the Conference,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands),
11,4 The first amendment submitted by Dr, Raadi  is adopted by 27 votes to 1, with 15 abstentions.
11,6 We shall now vote on the second amendment  submitted by Dr. Raadi,  {The vote was taken by a show of hands),
11,6 The second amendment is adopted by 21 votes  to 7, with 12 abstentions.
11,7 We shall now proceed io a vote on draft resolu-  tion no,3 as a whole,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands},
11.8 The Working Party's draft resolution no,3 is  adopted unanimously.
11,9 I should like to thank the Working Party again  for facilitating the task of the General Conference,
11.10 I call upon Mr. Shuster, delegate of the  United States of America,
12,1 Mr. SHUSTER (United States of America);  Mr. President, I rise to speak on a matter of  significance in the preparation of the programme and  bucget. The distinguished delegate of the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics stated yesterday that his  . Government would withhold part of its contribution  which is due under the Appropriation Resolution  adopted by this Assembly. I do not wish at this late  hour to discuss or challenge the reasons given for  this action, but the action is no doubt in itself a  matter of importance. In order that we may all see  clearly what is involve) ‘the United States would  appreclate it if the Direltor-General would provide  answers io the following questions; First, is there  any provision in the Constitution or the Financial  Regulations of Unesco which authorizes a Member  State to withhold part of its contribution? Second, if  such an action to withhold is not authorized, does any  penalty attach to it?
12,2 We realize that the Director-General may not  have had time to conglder the next questions. They  are based on a concern lest we find that the income  received from Member States is insufficient to cover  the cost of the programme ag adopted. The questions  are, third, how large will be the total amount withield  MEETINGS XXXI  so far and now to be withheld by the Soviet Union in  the light of the above explanation, and how large will  be the amount withheld by other Member States which  may follow the example of the USSR? Fourth, as a  result of such withholding, what will be the actual  cash position of the Organization, that is to say, how  far will contributions remain below the adopted assess-  ment ceiling? Fifth, what will be the consequences  for the prograrume? In particular, what projects  may suffer from lack of funds, that is to say, may  either have to be reduced or dropped in their entirety?
12,3 The United States delegation would appreciate  obtaining information on the above points,
13. The PRESIDENT (Translationfrom the French):  I call upon the Director-General who will answer  the questions raised.
14,1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL (Translation from  the French};  Mr, President, I am not sure if I can give a com-  plete and detailed reply to the series of questions  which have just been put by the United States delegate  in regard to the declaration made yesterday evening  by the delegate of the Soviet Union,
14.2 I do not think that the obligation on every  Member State to pay its contribution in full can be in  any way affected by the stand which a given State may  have adopted during the discussion of the budget on  any other question that may have been the subject of  a decision by the General Conference.
14.3 Accordingly, any part of a contribution which  may be withheld represents a falling in arrears, under  the existing Financial Regulations, and I must so con-  sider it.
14.4 I believe that the delegate of the United States  asked if there were any provisions of the Constitution  relevant to such a situation, This question is dealt  with in paragraph 8 (b) of Article IV of the Constitu-  tion, which provides for a certain penalty, but only  when the arrears in a Member State's contribution  reach a sum equivalent to the amount due from that  State for the preceding year and the current year. I  may add that I have already had occasion to remind  certain Member States of this.
14.5 Finally, if I understood correctly, the dis-  tinguished delegate of the United States requested me  to provide exact figures, I am sure he will understand  that I am not in a position to supply them at the present  time but I am prepared to do so, for example, within  the Executive Board, if so requested.
15.1 The PRESIDENT (Translationfrom the French):  I take it that the delegate of the United States of  America is satisfied with this reply.
15,2 I call upon Mr. Lavrichenko, delegate of the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
16.1 Mr, LAVRICHENKO (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian);  Mr. President and fellow delegates, we are baffled  by the statement of the United States representative.  The Soviet Union has always been a scrupulous con-  tributor, it has always paid its dues and fulfilled its  obligations, and intends to go on doing so. But we  stated, and state again, that we have no intention of  supporting Chiang Kai-shek's clique, the Chiang   XXX1 PLENARY  Kai-shek gang, which is at present under the protec-  tion of the United States Navy. Let those who protect  ..them support them,
16.2 The Soviet Union considers that only the  People's Republic of China, with its 670 million  population can be the country's representative in  Unesco, Let the United States representative grasp  this fact once again: we do not intend to pay, and  never will pay, for the supporters of Chiang Kai-shek.
16.3 There is a second point, gentlemen, which I  should like to make {n connexion with his statement.  Under the guidance of that brilllant Chairman, Mr.  Barôn Castro, we had a long discussion in the  Administrative Commission, about the budget and  about finance, and we expressed in some detail our  views concerning the construction of a fourth building  for Unesco.
16.4 We said that there were more important tasks  for us at the present time than the construction of a  fourth building, and that the Soviet Union delegation  thought it advisable that the three and a half million  dollars earmarked for the fourth building, including  the 915,000 dollars earmarked in the 1961-1962  budget for the construction of the building, should be  spent on constructing schools in Africa, on the train-  ing of teachera or on fellowships.
16.5 Gentlemen, we cannot now or next year spend  a million dollars for the construction of a new build-  ing when only yesterday, at the two plenary meetings,  we were told that the question of education in Africa  was highly important, and so on.
16,6 The Soviet Union delegation therefore reiter-  ates yet again that we are against the construction of  a fourth building at a time when Africa is in need of  money. It is in this situation that we are asked to  spend a million dollars - 915,000 dollars t) be pre-  cise - on the construction of a fourth building instead  of putting up a hundred centres in Africa for training  teachers from among the local population, which so  desperately needs them.
16.7 Let me repeat, Mr, President and fellow  delegates: the Soviet Union has never said that it  would refuse to pay those contributions which are due  from it. Itrust that the representative of the United  States of America has heard what I said, But we  shall not pay for the Chiang Kai-shek clique. Funds  exist - 915,000 dollars which the Director-General  can spend out of our budget for the construction of  the fourth building, We should like these resources  to be spent for schools in Africa and for teacher-  training centres.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 call upon Mr. Chen Yuan, delegate of China.
18. Mr. CHEN Yuan (China):  Mr. Chairman, I protest strongly against the use  .of insulting, offensive language about the Head of a  Member State. This should not be allowed; more-  over I do not understand the word "clique". Iam  afraid this hat does not fit our head, perhaps it may  fit some other heads. I am glad that some of the  Soviet delegations are still here, for I should like to  issue them a challenge. I have attended every  General Conference of Unesco since its foundation as  a delegate of my Government, but I have never in my  life been a member of any political party - I can say  MEETINGS
488  so publicly from this rostrum. I should like to  challenge any member of the Soviet delegation or any  member of the delegations of the satellites to come  up here and say that he is not a member of the  Communist Party; if they dare let them come now.  Everyone then will see who are members of their  "clique" and who are not, Everyone will see which  countries are under the rule of a "clique" and which  are not.  i8.1 The PRESIDENT (Translytion fromthe French);  I regard the question as being closed, The informa-  tion requested will be given to the Executive Board by  the Director-General, \  ‘  ELECTION OF THE MEMBERS OF THE HEADQUARTERS  COMMITTÉE, OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE AND OF THE  REPORTS COMMITTEE
19.2 We shall now deal with the next item, namely  the recommendations of the Nominations Committee  regarding the membership of the Headquarters Com-  mittee, the Legal Committee and the Reports Com-  mittee for the twelfth session of the General Conference  (document 11 C/54),
19.3 I call upon the Chairman of the Nominations  Committee, H.E. Mr. Sharif,
20,1 Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan), Chairman of the  Nominations Committee:  Mr. President, fellow delegates, the Nominations  Committee held its third meeting on 13 December,  and it is now my privilege to present its recommenda-  tions for the membership of the Headquarters, Legal  and Reports Cominittees. ‘
20.2 As you are aware, the General Conference at  its present session, decided to increase the member-  ship of the Reports Committee from 23 to 30 members  and to restore the membership of the Headquarters  Committee to 15 members.
20,3 During the discussions the need for adequate  representation of the various geographical reglons  and of new Member States of the Organization was  emphasized. The special responsibility of member-  ship of the various committees was also stressed.
20,4 In conclusion, I would like to express my  gratitude to all the delegations participating in the  discussion for their help and co-operation, as a result  of which the Committee was able to reach agreement  on the proposals which I have the honour to submit  to you on its behalf, They are before you in document
21,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French);
1 shall put ea¢n of the recommendations of the  Nominations Committee to the vote, beginning with  the one relatingtothe membership of the Headquarters  Committee. Are there any objections to the Com-  mittee's recommendation? The recommendation  relating to the membership of the Headquarters Com-  mittee is adopted unanimously.
21,2 We shall proceed to the second recommenda-  tion which deals with the membership of the Legal  Committee. Are there any objections? The recom-  mendation is adopted unanimously.   PLENARY MEETINGS
21.3 The last recommendation concerns the member-  ship of the Reports Committee.
21.4 Mr. Lavrichenko, delegate of the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics wishes to speak and I now  call upon him,
22, Mr, LAVRICHENKO (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr. President and esteemed delegates, I have in  my hands the Report of the Nominations Committee  in Russian, China may have been listed by error;  but if no mistake has been made, and by China is  meant the Chiang Kal. shek clique, then we shall  abstain from voting.
23.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French): .  We shall proceed to a vote on the last recommenda-  tion of the Nominations Committee concerning the  membership of the Reports Committee.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands),
23.2 The recommendation 18 adopted by 35 votes,  with 8 abstentions.  ADOPTION OF THE ADDENDUM TO THE REPORT OF THE  PROGRAMME COMMISSION
23.3 We will now proceed to the next item on the  agenda which is the adoption of the Addendum to the  Report of the Programme Commission {document
23.4 I call upon Mr. François, Chairman of the  Commission.
24, Mr. FRANCOIS (France), Chairman of the  Programme Commission (Translation from the  French):
1 have only one comment to make on document
11 C/36 Addendum, It relates to page 5, which con-  cerns Unesco's publications policy. Paragraph 3  contains a phrase which is the.'e by mistake; the  passage concerned reads as follows: "The Com-  mission finally approved the resolution which 'invites  the Director-General to take all necessary measures,  within the limits of the funds available, to ensure the  use of Arabic at regional conferences'", The words  "within the limits of the funds available" should be  removed, since the Programme Conunission and the  General Conference have voted the nicessary funds:  a sum of $25,000 was accepted by the Programme  Coramission and was approved here, yesterday, in  plenary meeting. In these circumstances the words  "within the limits of the funds available" are  obviously not required.
25.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French):  We shall first of all examine the resolution em-  bodied in paragraph 1 of the document before you,  If there are no objections, the resolution will be  considered as adopted. The resolution included in  paragraph 1 of the Addendum to the Report of the  Programme Commission is adopted.
25,2 We shall now proceed to the resolution in  paragraph 3 of the Addendum. This resolution is  adopted. .
25.3 We shall now deal with the resolution which  appears at the end of page 3 of the Addendum, This  resolution {s adopted.
26,4 The second part of the document deals with  ""Unesco's publications policy". Does anyone wish  to raise an objection? The second part of the Adden-  dum to the Report of the Programme Commission is  adopted,
25,6 I now call upon the General Conference to  decide on the Addendum to the Report as a whole.  Are there any objections? The Addendum to the  Report as a whole is adopted,
26,6 I thank the Chairman and members of the  Programme Commission for their excellent work,
25.7 I call upon Mr, Ouagadjio, delegate of Chad.
26.1 Mr, OUAGADJIO (Chad) (Translation from  the French):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Chad  delegation cannot adequately express {ts gratitude to  the delegates of the so-called "dev oped” countries  for the confidence revealed in thei: remarks here  concerning the young natlons of Tropical Africa which  have recently become independent,
26.2 Those delegates have played the part of a  father who leans over the cradle in which a new-born  child 1s cryingl We have been given clear and une-  quivocal promises. We hope to meet again in 1862  when we shall have an opportunity to describe the  work which has been undertaken by Unesco in Chad.
27. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I now call upon the Director-General,
28.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERA L (Translation from  the French):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the work of  the eleventh session of the General Conference has  come to an end and I should like to convey to you  something of what I felt during the discussions and  what I feel at this moment. I think I should begin by  stressing three features of this session of the General  Conference.
28,2 Firstly, I would refer to the progress made  towards universalism and the universality of Unesco,  this progress being reflected in the fact that the  needs of Member States have been considered in more  practical, more regional, terms and above all, in the  admission to our family circle of the group of countries  which have recently become independent, in particu-  lay those of the African continent. ;
28.3 In submitting their proposed programme, the  Secretariat and the Director-General have tried to  show that we were ready to welcome this group into  our family, I feel that the General Conference has  not only realized this but has, through its decisions,  greatly helped the Secretariat to meet the requests  and the requirements of these new States, I also  feel that the General Conference has appreciated the  cultural and intellectual contribution made by these  States to its work - 1 would even go so far as to say  that it has been touched and moved by the part they  have played.
28.4 Secondly, I consider that, this time, without  in any way abandoning the Organization's basic duty,  which is to serve as a permanent centre for planning,  documentation, study and research, we have made   XXXI  substantial and fairly striking progress towards  practical action and direct aid to countries on a  larger scale with the object of meeting their needs,  particularly as regards education and international  scientific co-operation, on the lines I proposed and  the Conference has approved,
28.5 Thirdly, I believe that this session of the  (General Conference has repeatedly brought out the  need for a thorough revision of our Organization's  methods and structures, owing to its development .  and the increase in the number of ita Member States,
28.6 I should like to thank you, ladies and gentle-  men, for the programme which you have authorized  me to carry out, This programme has unquestionably  been improved and clarified through your efforts, to  the extent - as the Chairman of the Programme  Commission observed yesterday - that discussions  within that Commission, like those within the  Administrative Commission as regards the budget  and in all the plenary meetings, will leave you with  no feeling of hastiness or frustration - contrary,  perhaps, to what has been felt on other occasions,  The Conference can be proud of having played its  part fully and effectively, that part not being simply  to ratify the Director-General's proposals but to  examine them scrupulously, improve them and add  to them,
28.7 We now have a budget that has been increased,  substantially increased and the circumstances in  which you approved that increase deserve also, in  my opinion, to be emphasized and noted, It is yet  another reason for the Director-General to convey  his warmest gratitude to you.
28.8 Apart from the Organization's programme  and budget, we now have the possibility, thanks to  the means which have been provided for, and since  yesterday afternoon partly furnished, of meeting the  urgent needs of the African countries. And although  it has already been said I should like to repeat that  the contributions offered to the Organization yester-  day come from all parts of the world, from rich  States and from others less rich and, as the delegate  from Morocco emphasized yesterday, they provide a  practical demonstration of the transition from bi-  lateral to multilateral aid through the United Nations  and our own educational, scientific and cultural  Organization.
28.9 Before concluding, I should like to say that  the understanding and generous spirit shown by dele-  gates during these busy and tiring, but rewarding,  days has been most cheering to the Director-General  and the Secretariat; for although the present session  of the Conference is nearly over, Unesco's work  goes on, The co-operation between the Director-  General and the Executive Board has been particu-  larly close and profitable during the last two years  and will, I am sure, continue and develop during the  period ahead, This is for us, in the Secretariat, an  essential guarantee of being able to discharge our  duties, But, as you are aware, our work has  increased and our responsibilities have become more  extensive; and we, the Secretariat, leave this session  of the General Conference with powerful encourage-  ment but with a heightened sense of the responsibili-  ties we bear and the effort expected of us.
28,10 Needless to say, the Director-Gencsal cannot  cope single-handed and I take this opportunity of
490  PLENARY MEETINGS  pointing out how much is owed to the whole Secre-  tariat and, in particular, to my closest collaborators,  the Deputy Direntor-General, René Maheu, the  Assistant Directors-General, Jean Thomas, Malcolm  Adiseshiah and Alvin Roseman, the Directors of  Departments and Heads of Services and the Legal  Adviser. 1 do not wish to pay tribute to them {ndi-  vidually - especially to these who are closest to me:  you yourselves have seen what they have accomplished  and have referred to their work on a number of  occasions; but 1 do want to say - and there could be  no pleasanter duty as I am about to start implement-  ing this programme - how much I appreciate their  co-operation and I should like to place on public  record my gratitude to all my colleagues,
28,11 In addition to the Regular programme and  the programme of aid to the new African States, you  have adopted a draft Convention and a draft Recom-  mendation against Discrimination in Education; you  have approved and encouraged the continuation of the  campaign to save the monuments of Nubia (both  Egyptian and Sudanese) you have approved work on ‘  behalf of schools and children in the Congo; and in  the course of a rich and profitable debate, you gave  the Secretariat guidance for the working out of  principles to be followed in international exchanges  in education, science and culture,
28,12 Whether it be in carrying out the Regular  programme or in accomplishing any other task which  you have entrusted to us, action invariably entails  preparatory thinking and deep reflection which are  sometimes difficult to reconcile with the feverish  pace of our work, And you have especially empha.  sized this aspect of evaluating needs before under-  taking any practical action.
28.13 In conclusion, I should like to assure you  that, after this eession of the Conference, we shall  immediately undertake with increased enthusiasm and  to the best of our ability, the tasks which you have  entrusted to us and which we accept with gratitude and  with that sense of responsibility I mentioned earlier.
28.14 We must co-ordinate our work with that of  other international bodies, with that of the United  Nations, the Specialized Agencies and the International  Atomic Energy Agency; we must initiate that urgent  study you have requested us to carry out with a view  to improving the Secretariat's working methods; we  must likewise ensure a reasonable cultural and geo-  graphical balance in appointing members of the  Secretariat, Finally, we must see to it that the  necessary space for our work is available:
28,15 But, when all is said and done, ladies and  gentlemen, the ideals we cherish are eternal and the  aims we pursue are matters of the present and the  future. In carrying out our programme we must  strive to promote mutual understanding and peaceful  co-operation, without which none of the Secretariat's  projects can be achieved. We must always draw our  inspiration from the great idea of respect for human  rights, without any form of discrimination, and we  must seek to remove, as quickly as possible, the  tragic disproportion - the only one which truly divides  the world - between different standards of living,  social, economic and cultural, and especially in the  field of education,
28.16 With the resources and the programme you  have given us, we shall therefore work to give effect   PLENARY  to this great idea of abolishing the contrasts between  peoples! standards of living and of releasing funds at  present devoted to armaments for the benefit of  newly independent countries, s0 that they may speed  up their own development, We shall endeavour to  ensure always that spiritual values take precedence  over political, social, economic and technical ques-  tions, in accordance with the teaching of the Gospel  that "Man shall not live by bread alone",
28,17 We shall try to do all this to the best of our  ability and with max{murn efficiency, by rationalizing  the work and seeking in the future programme to  achieve concentration of our efforts which ycu have  requested to an ever increasing extent,
28,18 I shall conclude this part of my statement by  expressing my particular gratitude to you, Mr.  President, for having so admirably and firmly guided  the work of the Conference in this African year of  ours and by thanking all the chairmen and rapporteurs  of the commissions and committees and all the delega-  tions, We shall meet again in two years' time for the  twelfth session of our General Conference,
28,19 I have no wish to prophesy as regards this  twelfth session and the fact that it ray well mark  another big step forward, But what I do hope above  all is that in two years' time we shall find the flags  of Unesco, the flags of peace, which we have now  perhaps planted in a forward trench beyond our pres-  ent position, deep rooted in world reality, flying in  the wind of justice, truth and freedom.  TRIBUTE TO MR. JEAN THOMAS, ASSISTANT OIRECTOR.  GENERAL
28.20 Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, I  would not let this session of the General Conference  end without asking you to join me in paying the tribute  due to a man who is soon to leave the Unesco Scere-  tariat - one of the men who played a key part in the  birth and development of our Organization. I refer  to my friend and colleague Jean Thomas, Assistant  Director-General of Unesco,
28.21 In conveying to him the admiration and affec-  tion which you and I fee] for him, I cannot forbear to  mention that harsh law whereby no joy in this world  is unaccompanied by a shadow of some kind, After  fifteen years! development, Unesco has at last  achieved almost complete universality by welcoming  the young nations of Africa. And it is at this very  moment that the Organization is losing a man whose  clear- sighted idealism, a compound of devotion to  spiritual values, a sense of humanity and respect for  the concrete and the real, has, throughout those  fifteen years, been a sure guide in its advance.
28.22 À lesson in uprightness, honesty and responsi-  bility, insistence on always comparing the ideal with  what actually exists, the sacrifice of subjective and  personal preferences in the interests of objectivity -  such, my dear Thomas, is undoubtedly the most  valuable meñsage which you leave us.
28.23 An exceptionally brilliant and varied career  had prepared you admirably for the part which you  were destined to play from 1946 onwards, on the  international stage of Unesco. I use the word "career"  with some hesitation for no man perhaps has been  less concerned with all that is vain and deadening fn
491  MEETINGS XXXI  ambition, I believe that you were first and foremost  concerned with being rather than succeeding, with  remaining yourself and developing your independent  mind, concerned more with constantly broadening  your outlook, enriching yourself by contact with ideas,  activities and new experiences than with imprisoni ig  yourself within the limits of a figure. Yet your devo-  tion to intellectual independence, your feeling for the  things of the mind has never separated you from the  world and its vicissitudes, you have lived in your own  time, ready to take your share of responsibility,
28,24 I shall not here recount in detail the differ-  ent stages of an exceptionally brilliant career, in the  course of which Jean Thomas, graduate of the "Zcole  normale supérieure’ then "agrégé de lettres", was  called on to occupy the chair of higher education at  the Arta School at Poltlers and, subsequently, at  Lyons, while still continuing his own research, parti-  cularly concerned with Diderot and hia period,
28.25 After the war, in which you unhesitatingly  answered the call of the French Resistance and took  on highly dangerous duties, you headed the Office of  the Minister of Education and there demonstrated  your outstanding qualities as an administrator and  man of action,
28.26 Such are the broad outlines of tho invaluable  personal qualities, qualifications and experience  which you brought with you when, at the beginning of
1946, you joined the Preparatory Commission of  Unesco as Deputy Executive Secretary, Side by side  with Dr, Julian Huxley in the modest London offices  of the Preparatory Commission's Secretariat, Jean  Thomas devoted himself not to a reality which already  existed and was already full of promise but to an idea  which was at that time a challenge,
28,27 From that point on, Jean Thomas! biography  is wholly bound up with the history of Unesco. His  work has contributed to each of the stages which has  led our Organization to its present position.
28.28 If I wished to sum up his contribution to our  Organization in a single word, I should choose the  word "culture'', but on condition that it be given its  full meaning. The Department of Cultural Activities,  with which Jean Thomas was especially concerned,  owes to him a clear concept of tite guiding principles  of its programme, smoothly developed from the ’  beginning: the concern to serve the interests of  creators and research workers, to respect the speci-  fic rAle of intellectuals, artists and writera and to  ensure their confident co-operation with Unesco; the  need to treat culture as the expression and property  of all men, to ensure the enjoyment of its riches by  all, to make inter-cultural exchanges a meeting ground  for the universal dialogue of peoples.
28.29 As Assistant Director-General, Jean Thomas  gave the same attention to all branches of the pro-  gramme, insisted on having a perfect knowledge of  the technical aspects of every question, sought informa-  tion from specialists, was ready to revise his ideas  in the light of any reliable analysis, avolded partisan-  ship and over-hasty judgements and expected of others  the saine sense of responsibility, the same clear-  sightedness and the same precision in thought and  ucticn as he himself possessed, My predecessors  and I myself could always rely on him for an unfail-  ingly sharp judgement, invariably imbued with a sense _  of responsibility and with a deep and authentic wisdom.   "XXXI PLENARY
28,30 Firm and courteous in negotiation and dis-  cussion, readily dominating discussions which were  sometimes extremely difficult, able to curb impatience  as thoroughly as he avoided intolerance and partiality,  he served Unesco throughout as a man of outstanding  qualities and high distinction,
28,31 In recalling what you represent for all those  who have had the privilege of working with you, Jean  Thomas, the great influence which you have had on  your colleagues, the feelings of affection due to your  character and your personality, I am afraid that I  may violate that reserve, compound of modesty and  discretion, which is one of the most admirable aspects  of your personality. At the risk of falling in that  virtue myself, 1 jui.at tell you rvhat feelings of friend-  ship you have aroused in all of us and that that friend-  ship will remain,
28,32 With your departure we lose a comrade who  has been with us jn our struggles and in our work  and to whom we are linked by countless memories;  a man of great gifts whose advice and support have  al'vays inspired a feeling of invaluable security in  all; the presence among us of the best that culture  and civilization can produce, But, I repeat, still  more, it is a friend who is leaving us, a friend we  hope to see often among us but whom we know, alas,  is destined henceforward to embark upon other work  and another life,
28,33 My dear colleague and my good friend, on  behalf of Unesco and the Secretariat, I wish to thank  you for all that you have contributed throughout these  fifteen years of reflection and toil to the greatness  of our Organization. I hope, indeed I know, that the  Organization can count on your assistance whenever  it is compatible with the new duties which you are to  assume in your country's service, And for my own  part, at a time when I am appealing to a number of  distinguished people throughout the world to help me,  as members of the International Action Committee,  to give impetus to the International Campaign to Save  the Monuments of Nubia, I am happy to announce that
1 have chosen you to occupy the important position of  Chairman of that Committee. I am not therefore,  saying "goodbye" to you but a most affectionate and  cordial "au revoir".
29,1 The PRESIDENT (Translationfromthe French):  I should like first of all to thank the Director-  General for his detailed explanation. I am also  grateful for his remarks concerning myself, I need  hardly emphasize to you, who know the work carried  out by the Director-General and his distinguished  colleagues, that he will begin work immediately with  the increased budget, devoting himself unceasingly  with still more enthusiasm and energy to the service  of Unesco and its ideals,
29.2 Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you wil] allow  me, on your behalf and on my own, to associate my-  self with the Director-General's tribute to Mr. Jean  Themas. Mr, Thomas has been a Unesco specialist  since its incéption, a man of culture, a faithful  servant of Unesco, and I believe it will be very hard  for the Director-General to find as highly qualified a  man to fill the gap left by Mr, Thomas' departure.
29,3 | There is a final draft resolution, submitted  by the General Committee of the Conference which  I shall now read to you:
492  MEETINGS  "The General Conference,  Considering that since 1946, when a Preparatory  Commission met in London to prepare for the initial  General Conference of Unesco, Mr, Jean Thomas has  been intimately associated with the direction of the  Organization, first as Director of the Department of  Cultural Activities and then as Assistant Director-  General, and  Considering further that by reason of the admirable  lucidity of his thought, the great gift of creative  imagination which has characterized his approach to  the Unesco programme, and the unflagging courtesy  and dedication to international understanding which  he has shown both in his work in the Secretariat and  during his many arduous ‘visits to the Member States  of the Organization,  Expresses to him its high esteem and profound  gratitude, after the manner of friend to friend, and  volces the hope that what is termed his retirement  will only lead, whatever may be his future services  to his country and mankind, to new benefits which  will accrue from his continuing identification with the  purposes which our Organization strives to serve",
20.4 Iam sure, ladics and gentlemen, that you  are ready to adopt this draft resolution by  acclamation,
29.5 The draft resolution is adopted.
28.6 I call upon Mr, Jean Thomas,
30.1 Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  (Translation from the French):  Mr, President, Mr, Director-General, ladies and  gentlemen, I should like to take up a few moments of  your time to express my deep and sincere gratitude  to those who drafted this resolution, to the General  Committee of the Conference, which submitted it, to  the Director-General who referred to me with a  generosity and affection which greatly touched me,  and to the General Conference as a whole.
30,2 I am certain that I do not deserve this resolu-  tion or the Director-General's tribute; I believe that  the explanation lies, first of all, in the feelings of  friendliness which this resolution expresses but I  also think there are two other reasons.
30.3 The first is my length of service with Unesco.  The Director-General has just recalled the various  stages, In the short history of international organiza-  tions which emerged from the war or in the post-war  period, such length of service is rare - I do not say  exceptional but rare - and this must of course be  regarded as one reason for the tribute you have paid  me,
30.4 Without going into the details of that career  of which you, Mr, Director-General have just spoken,  I should like to mention the names of those Directors-  General under whom 1 have had the honour to serve  and for all of whom I retain feelings of deep devotion,  affection and respect; Julian Huxley, Jaime Torres  Bodet, Luther Evans and, finally, Dr. Veronese,  you yourself.
30.5 Ihave been able to follow and observe the  signs of Unesco's growth in the very building which  it has occupied, It is no more than a symbol but it  is a striking and revealing one.
30,6 You have referred to the little Grosvenor  Square apartment: in London where Unesco was born,  then the two houses in Belgrave Square which already   PLENARY MEETINGS  gave us the impression of having soine freedom of  movement. When we came to Paris, the Hotel  Majestic seemed too big and we were able to lease  some rooms to other institutions, But it was not  long before the Hotel Majestic became too small end  parhape one of the most satisfying memories which I  shall keep of my service with Unesco {a the construc-  tion of this building which seemed imposing and im-  mense and which now, as you heve observed, is too  small for the Organization's nceds, This growth in  Unesco's accommodation is an indication of the  growth of Unesco itself and, at the moment of my  departure, I have at least the pleasure of seeing that  you are all thinking of a still greater Unesco.
30,7 I should like to refer just as briefly to the  second reason: Iam sure that through me and beyond  me you wished to pay tribute to the Secretariat as a  whole, to all those of my colleagues with whom 1  have had the privilege of wurking for fourteen years.  Some of them have died at their posts. Of these,  there are two whom I feel I must mention: Bernard  Drzewleski and Willlam Hodson, :
30.8 I also think of those who have left us to take  up a new career - and I will confine myself to mention-  ing some of those with whom I worked most closely:  Lionel Elvin, Tom Marshall, Plerre Auger, Prem  Kirpal - and of those who have left us to take up im-  portant positions in their own countries and who are  heading delegations here today; I should like to  mention three, of whom I have a particularly keen  recollection: Dr. Beeby, now the Head of the New  Zealand delegation, Dr, Raadi, now the Head of the  Iranian delegation and Dr, Awad, now the Head of  the delegation from the United Arab Republic. So  you see that, on leaving the Secretariat, one may be  destined to occupy exalted positions.
30.9 But, above ali, I should like you to agree with  me that it was to all my comrades, those who remain  with us, that you wished to express your gratitude  and friendship; to all those who serve with the Director-  General, under his authority, from the Deputy  Director-General, through the Assistant Directors-  General and the Directors of Departments, to those  whom you never see but who are perhaps no less use-  ful, no less devoted, those who make up the docu-  ments or translate them, thuse who reproduce them  or distribute them - those mountains of documents  to which the Chairman of the Programme Commission  alluded yesterday. And it is to all of them that I  would wish, with your permission, to transfer your  tribute, your gratitude and your friendship.
30.10 Mr, President, there are two parts to every  resolution: one which expresses considerations,  principles, motives - and there I have nothing to say  beyond my thanks. But there is another part known  as the operative or executive part - and that part}  promise you I will carry out. It is the part which  expresses the hope that I will continue in what is  called my retirement to give the Organization the  benefit of my devotion to the aims wnich Unesco  seeks to serve. I promise you that in whatever  position I may be called to fill in future, I will con-  tinue to serve both the Organization and the ends  for which it was created.
483 °  CLOSE OF THE ELEVENTH SESSION OF THE GENERAL  CONFERENCE
31,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French};  Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come to close  this session of the General Conference which in only  a few weeks has succeeded in imposing its pace on us.  We had already acquired habits and, without realizing  it, this periodic meeting, which only takes place every  two years, imperceptibly cnme to be a permanent  Institution for us,
31,2 If we find it difficult to separate after a month  apent together, that feeling is due to all those who  have devoted themselves to making our work s0 agree-  able und, I am certain, so fruitful, It LA not easy to  thank them: so many different skills, effort: and  merits are involved that one could not mention all  those who deserve praise, But I must single.out  certain names, In the first place, the Chairman of  the Executive Board, Sir Ben Bowen Thomas, who,  with the distinguished members of the Board, pre-  pared the framework of our action, I should also like  to convey the gratitude of all of us to the Director-  General, Dr. Veronese, whose patience and zeal are  inexhaustible as are also those of his immediate assis-  tants. I thank all the members of the Secretariat, all  the officers of whatever level, whom we have seen at  work and whose precision, tact and devotion have  been so much appreciated, Without their keen assis-  tance, it is unlikely that delegates would have been  able to carry out the task before them, I aleo thank  the interpreters who have, again thin year, been  severely tried and have demonstrated the extent of  their skill,
31.3 And I scarcely know how to express my grati-  tude to my colleagues of the General Committee.  What sort of an existence would u President have if  he could not rely on the Vice-Presidents to come to  his aid from time to time? I trust, at any rate, that  I have not taken undue advantage nf your courteous  readiness to assist, My gratitude goes also to the  chairmen, vice-chairmen and rapporteurs of the  commissions, committees and working parties who  have given the drive to our discussions without which  they cannot be effective. And I thank all the delegates  whose understanding has made my task so pleasant,
31.4 What lesson can we draw from this eleventh  session of the General Conference? We have been  present on a most happy occasion of historical signifi-  cance - the "Year of Africa’. As an African and as  President, I have observed with satisfaction the en-  thusiasm and the sense of responsibility shown by the  delegates from new States who have joined our ranks  and I have beenstruckbythe quality of their statements.  This proves that these young States have fully under-  stood the capital importance of Unesco's rôle in the  building of the future world.
31.5 I cannot refrain from remarking on the fact  that certain burning problems - which are discussed  with vehemence in other international gatherings -  arouse strong feelings here, too, I wall understand  the scruples shown in this regard by certain delegates  but should we not, in this respect, once again stress  the spirit of understanding, the realism shown by the  members of this assembly in ending, by acclamation,  a difficult discussion which could have lad to   XXXI PLENARY  innumerable controversies? Let us hope that this  example will be followed elsewhere in the world!
31.6 I likewise find otriking tne exceptional inter-  est shown by all delegations in a far-reaching project  aimed at securing long-term results - namely, inter-  national exchanges in education, science and culture.  In the discussions devoted to this project, which  owes so much to my worthy colleague and friend,  H.E. Mr. de Berredo Carneiro, delegates were able  to give free rein to their imagination, without regard  to immediate considerations or political expedience  and without being bound by pressing administrative  and financial demands, The Directorate-General and  the rest o! the Secretariat will find there & mine of  information, ideas and suggestions which will furnish  work for years to come, °
31.7 I should like once again to emphasize the fact  that geveral priority has been given to education, as  the work of the Programme Commission so well indi-  cates, Similarly, it has been recognized that the re-  sources employed by Unesco are not limited to the  budget of the Organization properly speaking but that  special budgets - in ever increasing number, let us  hope - are to be added thereto. The eleventh session  of the General Conference likewise wishes to see a  balance preserved within the Unesco programme,  particularly between regional and country programmes  and general activities which are international in  scope, ’ :
31.8 I should like to assure you that I have felt it  à great honour to preside at this séssion. Unesco's  universality, as so many speakers gt" ‘sed, has  shown itself in a striking manner ana his place has  become the parliament of nearly one hundred nations.
31.9 We have also witnessed the beginning of a  phase of expansion of our Organization, Never before  have we seen the preparation of such vast programmes,  never have we voted so large a budget. The final  leason of our work is one which I single out with  particular satisfaction (and this will be my last  observation this year), namely the constant determina-  tion shown by all the States represented here - both  highly developed or in process of development - to  face up to their responsibiliti¢s together, it being  their common conviction that there can be no pro-  gress that is not based on education,
31.10 Before declaring this last session officially  closed, I should like to wish all those who are return-  ing to their countries a safe and pleasant journey and  I hope to see them full of enthusiasm and new ideas  at the twelfth session of the Conference, To all  those who are herc or who have taken part directly  or indirectly in our work, I extend my best wishes  for 1961.
31.11 I call upon H.E. Mr, Barbey, Head of the  Swiss delegation.
32.1 Mr. BARBEY (Switzerland) (Translation  from the French):  Ladies and gentlemen, kindly observers and  mischief makers alike agree that every compatriot  of Rousseau or Pestalozzi is an educator at heart.  Let me reassure you: if this is true (and I believe  it is) the present speaker will not give in to the  temptation to moralize - a disagreeable tendency or  fault and, moreover, a useless ons. And should he  give in all the same, whether through habit or  MEETINGS  inadvertence, I trust, Mr, President, that you will’  call hin to order with your ivory gavel,
32,2 Everything seems to have been said here and  very well said. The orly expression of thanks which,  with your permission, I shall repeat and emphasize  is addressed to men, and to bodies, inseparable in  our minds and hearts: the Director-General and the  Secretariat, the Chairman and a special Working  Party of the Executive Board who together prepared  this eleventh session of the General Conference so  admirably.
32,3 The scope of this Conference was indicated  by the Chairman of our Programme Commission, my  friend Louis François, whose tall Greco-like figure  was to be seen on this rostrum yesterday and whose  voice and manner were so stirringly matched, His  statement will help us to demonstrate to our govern-  ments and National Commissions the value of the  work accomplished here since 14 November, The  television unfortunately wus not present: it could  have recorded on thi3 occasion the most eloquent and  honest of speeches pro domo,
32,4 A number of speakers voiced their satisfac-  tion at seeing delegates from a hundred Member  States gathered together for the first time in this hall,  This was indeed a great day in the history of Unesco  and in history itself,
32,6 But the ti-ae has passed - or rather has been  by-paesed - when historians dealt solely with diplo-  matic events, as if these were the only happenings  or the noblest or the most influential, In our time,  historians are also concerned with recording other  happenings which are defined as economic évents,  scientific or social events. This morning, might we  not describe them more simply as human events?
32,6 I shall take advantage of this moment preceding  our farewells and separation, not to play the part of  historian but to single out - briefly, I hasten to add -  certain impressions, I hope that all the delegations  on whose behalf I have the honour to speak will share  these, at least in essence.
32,7 In my view, there is something even more  significant than the meeting of a hundred Member  States and numerous international organizations; and  that is the fact that so many different professions are  gathered here, What assembly, what parliament  could boast of grouping representatives of so many  and such varied professions? I can think of none,  This diversity and range confers upon the General  Conference of Unesco its unique quality and its great-  ness.
32,8 Whenever the profession - that is to say,  knowledge and, at the same time, professional con-  science - has found expression in words or votes,  then politics, in the pejorative sense, have marked  time or retreated. And on certain difficult - and  even, let us be candid, distressing - occasions,  politics and politics alone dominated this rostrum,  But subsequently, rejoining his delegation, the speaker  re-entered a plane where the spirit of the profession  endowed him with a more accurate and calmer view  of menandaffairs. The tension diminished; and we were  conscious that, the same day, withinthe committees or  working parties, teams could be assembled which, in  their work would recoverthe spirit and tone of toler-  ance, first, and then of understanding, And that, too  renders our Organization unique “nd great.  > 494   PLENARY MEETINGS XXXI
32.9 But if this has been a meeting - and, I believe, or sceptical friends, To any of these, it 1s useless  a useful one - of professions, it has also and above to talk merely of programmes, budgets, committees,  all been a meeting of the most varied personalities - méetings and resolutions. But it 13 possible and use-  men and women, voices, languages, accents, ges- ful to show that, gathered together in our meeting  tures, attitudes, national costumes .,... Different rooms, outstanding men, who are also men of good-'  ways of thought and manners of expression; the will, have managed together to disclose and reduce  analytic approach and the synthetic approach, We the evil effects of discrimination. This 18 only one  know the ineshaustible resources of this diversity example among many. To ensure that these various  and it was invariably apparent, diversity and vitality. examples are better understood, we must (and it {s  These qualifiés matter far more than thé number of enough) discuss them in our own circles with insis-  texts and the loads of paper, which I do not wish to tence, enthusiasm and skill, I beliave that we have  criticize too harshly, like my friend Frangols, since reached the end of the present session better informed  they are a necessary evil. And I would rather be and better equipped to do so with success,  inclined to take up the defence of words, those poor 32,14 The intelligent and charming ladies who were  words which seemed so often to be unduly trite, with us thig year in greater number than ever before
32,10 But once we were agreed on the choice of will aid us in the task. For nature has equipped  these words - however trite - we felt that our agree- them, better than in the case of men, to talk warmly  ment restored their sense, their life and their of the work In which they have participated and to  quality. The work accomplished in reaching that convince their hearers. They will succeed all the  agreement, was, fs and will be worth while by reason more in that they have during this session, occupied  of the training which it gave us, and the obligation a variety of positions - as chairmen or rapporteurs -  which it imposed on us to commit ourselves to each which we, in our innocence, long pelieved could be  other. , occupied only by men,
32.11 For it goes without saying that texts and 32,15 Well-earned expressions of gratitude have  words are not the whole story. Many delegates met . been conveyed to all in this great building, which, in  old friends here, others made new friende, There recent weeks, has been the home of the Secretariat,  are still others, whose names, nationalities and the Executive Board, the delegations and the observers,  professions we may not have remembered; but with - We appreciate the fact, Mr, President, that you re-  these, too, we may have shaken hands, or exchanged membered us all. And it is now up to us, the dele-  a conspiratorial wink, a smile, a light for a cigarette. gatas, to think of you and to convey our gratitude to  We shall not forget the faces: they are the faces of you,  men and women with whom we will feel ourselves 32.16" It has been your privilege, Mr, President -  closely linked whenever our paths cross in the course and we like to think your pleasure also - to preside  of travels or meetings. ; with such complete friend!iness cver the eleventh
32,12 And that, among other things, is Unesco: session of our General Con'erence in this year 1960  that solidarity, which is already so greatly interna- when the world, more than ever before, has need of  tional and which will soon perforce become universal - Unesco,  I hope so, ai any rate, and I believe so. It is a  solidarity which develops through our common work 33. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French};  and which public opinion, too often grudging, should I have the honour to declare the eleventh session  note and be moved by, of the General Conference of the United Nations
32.13 I know that it is difficult to explain the nature Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization  of this work. It is difficult to interest governments closed.  harassed by immediate problems, newspapers hungry  for sensation and laden with advertising, indifferent The meeting rose at 12,50 p,m.  Comments by H,E, Dr. G.A. RAADI,  President of the delegation of Iran,  to the eleventh session of the General Conference of Unesco  on the subject of the Report of the Working Party on Methods of Preparing  the Programme and Budget (document 11 C/47), during the discussion of this  Report in the plenary meeting held on 15 December 1960  Mr. President, consideration is, I think, so important that I would  feel certain scruples about remaining silent.
1. It is with some uneasiness and a certain reluc- 2, At thic, its last plenary meeting, the Conference  tance that I rise to address you, since I know that has before it the Report of the Working Party on  we are pressed for time. But the question under Methods of Preparing the Programme and Budget
495   XXXI PLENARY  (document 11 C/47). I have the honour of belonging to  that Working Party, and I should like to take this  opportunity of paying tribute to its Chairman, Mr.  Eek, who conducted our discussions with great  patience and understanding,
3. Nevertheless, as stated in paragranh 33 of  document 11 C/47, I could not agree with the majority  of the Working Party on several of the items dis-  cussed, nor indeed on the contents of the Roport, and  therefore reserved the right to raise the matter in  plenary meeting, more especially as no minutes of  our discussions were taken, nor, as some of us had  thought, were our discussions in the Working Party  recorded.
4, The Report comprises two separate parts, the  first concerning the recommendations of the Execu-  tive Board and the Director-General for further im-  provement of the méthods of preparing the programme  and budget, and the second dealing with various resolu-  tions submitted by the delegations of Brazil, the  Scandinavian countries, Switzerland and Iran,
5. As the Report makes clear, the majority of the  Working Party approved the recommendations of the  Executive Board and the Director-General, and pro-  posed that the General Conference put them into  effect on an experimental basis, In 1961.
6. Nevertheless, as stated at the end of paragraph
10, sub-paragraph (d), "another speaker thought that  the proposals contained in document 11 C/29 were  useful but were only palliative measures, and that a  more thorough-going reform was necessary", With-  out revealing the identity of that speaker, I shall  merely say that the new methods contemplated whilst  having some merits from the point of view of simpli-  fication, do not seem to me likely to bring about any  appreciable improvement in the present procedure,  which is too complex, In fact, in document 11 C/20  and Add. (Recommendations of the Executive Board  and the Director-General), the faults are clearly  snough revealed, but the remedies suggested hardly  seem sufficiently appropriate. What then are these  faults, or at least the main ones?
7. . In the first place, there is one to which the  Director-General and the Executive, Board rightly  call attention in paragraph 9 of document 11 C/29 in  which it is stated that:  ",... the discussion paper, which inevitably tends  to constitute the basis of further programming, is  written without knowledge of such longer-term ideas  and proposals as Member States may have in mind  after the conclusion of a session of the General  Conference where, under the complex and necessarily  rigid procedure imposed by a heavy time-table, they  may not have had the opportunity of ventilating long-  term suggestions about future programmes, At the  subsequent stages of consultation, broader proposals  tend to have no impact upon what is already a detailed,  if provisional, work plan."
8, If I interpret this paragraph aright, the Director-  General would wish to give Member States sufficient  time to prepare, in the months immediately following  the Conference and in the light of the discussions  which have taken place at it, suggestions and observa-  tions for use in the preparation of the future pro-  gramme,
9, Now, such suggesiions could be of real use only  if they were based on the work of the previous seasion  MEETINGS  of the Conference as a whole, and I wonder who could‘  be better qualified than the Director-General himself  to draw a practical, overall conclusion fron: the work  of a General Conference in its entirety. Theiefore,  if this preliminary consultation with Member St.tes is  to be profitable, methodical and constructive, it  seems to me that the Director-General should, on the  basis of his fresh impressions of thé General Confer-  ence, draw up the main lines to be followed by his  future programme and request Member States to let  him have their comments and observations, at this  preliminary stage, on those main lines, Otherwise,  the suggestions received - if they are in sufficient  quantity, which is not the case - would merely be a  collection of heterogeneous ideas or restatements,  in another form, of resolutions which were not adopted  at the previous session, There would thus be a basic  imbalance at the start, and the house would be built  onsandand, ifI may say so, with makeshift materials.
10, The second shortcoming of these consultations  is that they appear to be conducted in several stages  and on a democratic basis whilst their results, in  fact, by no means tend towards democracy, since it  is, in practice, only the large countries and, in  general, those which have a highly developed admini-  strative organization, most of which are frequently -  and some permanently - represented on the Board,  which submit suggestions, whilst the smaller less  well-equipped countries and,-in particular, those  which are distant from Headquarters are not often  able to make their voices heard. And if some of them  not represented on the Board, should venture to put  forward suggestions, they would not be able to defend  or explain them to that body. The result is that, under  the present system, and under the pretence of world-  wide consultation on an equal footing, the countries  which are members of the Board have two chances.
11, As an illustration of this point, it 1s enough to  glance at the work plans and resolutions in the pro-  posed programme and budget: more than three-  quarters of them will be found to come directly or  indirectly from countries represented on the Board.
12, It should be added that consultailons of this type,  ag they are conducted under the present system, are  prescribed neither in the Constitution nor in the Rules  of Procedure, Furthermore, they are not, as far as  I know, held in this manner, at the preliminary stage,  in any of the other Specialized Agencies.
13, Lastly, according to the Constitution, while  the greatest responsibility and the prime initiative  for preparing the programme rest with the Director-  General, he also has to inform Member States and  the Executive Board of the future programme from  the start of its planning and to solicit their observa-  tions. It may be objected that the Director-General  could not find the time to carry out this task in the  months immediately following the General Conference's  session, without some danger of neglecting the execu-  tion of the programme, But there is no reason why  he should not carry it out during the second six-month  period, by postponing the consultations a little longer.
14. The third weakness to be noted in the earlier  methods and in those to be tried out experimentally  is that we are moving further end further away from  the spirit of the Constitution and from the separation  of powers which it prescribes, since, as has just been  stated, itisthe responsibility ofthe Director-General  > 496   PLENARY  to prepare the programma just as it is that of the  Executive Board to act as adviser in that respect,  and of Member States to take decisions by means of  the resolutions submitted to the General Conference.  But, in practice, it is the Executive Board which  deals with the preparation of the programme, rather  than with the supervision of its execution - although  the latter is its constitutioral task, For instance,  during the two-year period which has just ended, 25  meetings of the Board were devoted to discussions on  the preparation,of the programme. It is not astonish-  ing, then, if the-execution of the programme suffers  from this state >f affairs, It is for these reasons  that I wonder whether it {s worth while to try out the  new experiment tinder the present system - especi-  ally as even the programmes thus prepared, and  their relative balance, are liable to be upset at the  last minute through the introduction of addenda and  corrigenda. .
15. According to paragraph 16 of document 11 C/29,  the Executive Board and the Director-General would  like to encourage Member States to make suggestions,  following the eleventh session, on the long-term pro-  grammes or projects. But it goes without saying  that no long-term programme is possible without a  prior budgetary estimate - in other words, without  a predetermined financial framework,
16, For this reason, the delegation of Iran, whilst  recommending, in the general discussion and ever  since the beginning of the current session, that tri-  ennial or quadrennial conferences be held, and con-  sequently that long-term programmes be drawn up,  submitted a draft resolution after the examination  of another related item - the establishment of the  provisional budget éeiling. I am certain that if these  two principles (quadrennial or triennial programmes,  on the one hand, and a predetermined budget increase,  on the other) had been approved by the current ses-  sion - and they could have been - Member States  would have been in a position, after the eleventh  session, to submit truly constructive suggestions of  the sort for which a desire is expressed in paragraph
16 of document 11 C/29,
17. Now I should like to go into the detail of what  hati just been said, As the meeting will remember,  my delegation, at the time of the provisional decision  on the budget ceiling, made a number of observations,  which are to be found in document 11 C/VR.9 (prov.)  (pages 27-31),
18. Whilst stressing the disadvantages of succes-  sive recourse to belated addenda and corrigenda and  the delay in transmitting the proposed programme  and budget to Member States - a delay which had led  it unwillingly to abstaih from voting on the provisional  celling - the Iranian delegation submitted certain  suggestions with regard to methods of preparing the  programme and budget, designed to secure, on the  one hand, the normal development of the basic pro-  gramme and, on the other, the possibility of coping  with exceptional circumstances.
19. Expressing the hope that these suggestions  would be studied by the competent organs of the  General Conference, the delegation stated:  "It is high time that Unesco, in the light of the ex-  perience it hasthus acquired, should seeka rational  solution to the problems of financing {te budget, from  the point of view both of procedure and of resources.  MEETINGS
497  XXXI  It is undeniable that Unesco's activities are develop-  ing and that its budget is increasing and must neces-  sarily and inevitably increase from session to session,  But the history of previous sessions - particularly  those held in Florence and New Delhi - and to a cer-  tain extent the current session of the Conference,  show clearly enough that such increases have been  proposed, discussed, opposed or adopted in an  atmosphere of uncertainty, if not of confusion and  improvisation, ‘  To avoid these disadvanteges and to assure Unesco  of harmonious development and a regular but not  unlooked for increase in its budget, mighi it not be  possible to adopt a rule whereby the Director-General  would be authorized in advance to prepare the forth.  coming programme during each financial period on  the basis of a budget subject to a reasonable percen-  tage increase - say, for example, 10, 15 or 20 per  cent of the previous budget? In this way, since the  regular and ordinary increase in each budget would  have been determined by a pre-established principle,  the Director-General, the Executive Board and  Member States would find it easier to agree, when  the programme was being prepared, on the priorities  and scope to be given to new activities, and the con-  sultations, more productive though less numerous,  would take place in conditions of perfect understanding.  In other words, if this principle 18 adopted, the  provisional ceiling of each budget will, in future, be  known at least two years in advance, the Director-  General will take account of it in the preparation of  his future programme, and Member States will be  able to calculate from it, well in advance, the approxi-  mate amounta of their contributions.  Needless to say, this regular increase would be  devoted to the normal and foreseeable development of  the programme and financed by the contributions of  Member States.  At the same time, to enable the Director-General  to deal fairly rapidly with certain important and excep-  tional problems - as was the case this year following  the recent decisions of the Economic and Social Council  with regard to Tropical Africa - it would, in our  opinion, be well to consider the establishment of an  ‘Emergency Fund', Such a fund would be financed  not by the contributions of Member States to the  Regular programme, but from extra-budgetary  resources, such as voluntary contributions, the  Special Account and if possible budgetary savings  from preceding financial periods,  Finally, subject to detailed examination and subse-  quent negotiations, Unesco might perhaps seek to  finance this 'Emergency Fund', and certain other  operations, by asking for a loan from the International  Development Association (in accordance with Article  V, section 2, paragraph C of the Association's  articles of agreement), "
20. Some days later, during the general discussion  of the report on activities during the previous financial  period and on the Proposed Programme and Budget for
1961-1962, the Iraniandelegation, among its other ob-  servations, commended the initiative of the Executive  Board with respect to its intention to submit recommenda-  fons for increasing the efficiency of the work of the  Board, the Secretariatandthe General Conference,
21. In that connexion, it put forward arguments in  favour of triennial or quadrennial sessions of the   XXX1 PLENARY  General Conference, together with comments on the  composition of the Executive Board, {ts responsibili-  ties and the harmonization of its activities with the  spirit of the Constitution; it emphasized the need for  improvement of the system of consultations with  Member States and with the Executive Board during  the preparation of the programme and budget; and  finally, with regard to the rational improvement of  the methods of preparing the programme and budget  it repeated the suggestion for the adoption of the  principle of regular increases and for the.establish-  ment of an "emergency" or "marginal" fund, Al  these observations will be found in detail in document
22. We still believe that all these problems includ-  ing the fundamental question of the satisfactory func-  tioning of the Executive Board are closely interrelated  for, as will be remembered, at the eighth session of  the General Conference, held in Montevideo in 1954,  the mandate ôf members of the Executive Board was  defined in the following terms: "Although the mem-  bers of the Executive Board are representatives of  their respective governments they shall ‘exercise  the powers delegated to them by the General Confer-  ence on behalf of the Conference as a whole",  (Article V, amended, paragraph 12, of the Conatitu-  tion).
23. Nevertheless, a reading of the minutes of the  Executive Board makes it clear that since that date  and from session to session, practice has become  further and further removed from that international  mandate.
24, It is true that most of the members of the  Executive Board, to whom the most sincere tribute  must be paid, are primarily concerned with the  general policy and the whole body of the Organiza-  tion's activities on the universal plane, for they are  fully aware of the fact that they represent their  governments only as agents for the execution of  international responsibilities, But it happens fairly  often that certain others devote much if not all of  their work and interventione to questions which are  of concern only to their own countries, as if they  were merely those countries' permanent delegates  or super delegates, Some of them for instance, are  constantly making statements, putting questions and  presenting requests for favoured treatment of their  own countries in the execution and the preparation  of the programme, particularly with regard to  national associated projects, the choice of the head-  quarters of regional centres and the venues of inter-  national meetings, the allocation of posts in the  Secretariat, etc. And how rare it is to find them  consulting the Secretariat on the progress or diffi-  culties of a project being carried out in a country  not represented on the Board, or supporting an idea  put forward by such a country!
25, As far as the preparation of the programme  ‘and budget is concerned, it is true that the Director.  General consults Member States and takes into con-  sideration all the observations and proposals made,  particularly in the initial stages. But it 18 no less  true that, in practice, sugges ‘ons and requests from  States represented on the Board recéive special  attention, if not a degree of favour, particularly as,  during the later stages, they may be taken up again,  reintroduced, defended and further defended by the  MEETINGS
498  representatives of those States in that body. And I  wonder whether this state of affairs has not some  connexion with the insistence of certain countries on  securing a semi-permanent seat, to the detriment of  the principle of rotation.
26, At all events, it seems to me that logically we  must, in the interests of equity and a balanced pro-  gramme, seek a satisfactory solution with regard to  these consultations, or else abandon them purely and  simply.
27. Accordingly, at the end of our survey and our  thinking on these matters, we come to the conclusion  that fundamental shortcomings in the methods by  which the programme and budget 1s prepared are  largely responsible for the present state of affairs,
28. Moreover, feeling that the alteration of time-  limita or a reduction in the number of successive  versions of the programme, whilst useful were only  subsidiary measures, we turned our attention to the  finding of a radical and rational solution. We found  that - as is shown by the experience nf 11 previous  sessions - Unesco's activities are developing and  its budget i8 increasing and will continue to increase,  necessarily and inevitably. But these increases, not  being based on a predetermined though flexible rule,  often séem to bé improvised, and the resulting con.  fusion very largely falsifies the whole basis of the  consultations and entails undue recourse to addenda  and corrigenda,
29. Furthermore, when exceptional circumstances  arise, the measures taken at short notice to meet  them, in the absencé of the possibility of drawing on  a suitable fund, compel the Director-General, at the  last minute, to upset the whole balance and machinery  of a programme which has been worked out over the  whole of a financial period.
30, Not wishing to confine itself to these remarks  and statements, the Iranian delegation submits to the  Conference draft resolution 11 C/DR/196, whose  purpose is to provide, at one and the dame time, for  the normal development of the Organization's activi-  ties and for thé possibility of immediate action in  exceptiori'l cases, I venture to insert here the com-  plete text of the resolution, for, as you will agree,  the two operative provisions contained therein will  be better understood if, at the same time, the reader  or editor is acquainted with the various considera-  tions set forth in the preamble and with the rough  outline (which is, naturally, not exhaustive) of the  suggested priorities, This is the text:  "The General Conference,  Considering that, since the foundation of Unesco,  through eleven sessions of the General Conference,  the Organization's programmes of activities have  steadily expanded, and its budget has been increased  at each session,  Noting that this trend has, as experience has  shown, become an established principle which will  necessarily continue to govern budget estimates and  work plans for several sessions to come,  Considering, nevertheless, that, under the rules  in force, tlie Director-General, if he is to contem-  plate the inevitable budgetary increases, must consult  Member States several timer before sessions of the  General Conferente, and that these successive con-  sultations by correspondence make the machinery for  the preparation of the programme clumsy, without   PLENARY MEETINGS XXXI  producing explicit replies, in time, from most  Member States.  Considering that, in the absence of a pre-established  principle with regard to the expansion of the budget,  proposals for increases have sometimes been formu-  lated and adopted at or just before several sessions,  thus necessitating impromptu readjustments of the  prepared programmes and hasty consultations with  their governments by delegations,  Considering that arrangements should be made to  ensure the regular development of the Organization's  activities, whilst avoiding the above-mentioned incon-  veniences, and to enable Member States to forecast  the approximate amount of their contributions to the  future budget,  Considering, also, that apart from the normal  development of the programme, the Organization  should be enabled to take prompt action to deal with  certain important and unforeseeable problems,  Decides:
(1).that, henceforth, the General Conference shall,  at the end of each session determine in advance  the provisional ceiling of the budget which the  Director-General is to submit to the following  session;  Authorizes the Director-General to prepare the  Regular programme of the Organisation for 1963-
1964 in terms of a budget up to 15% larger than  the approved budget for 1861-1862, and in accord-  ance with the following directives:        (a) as regards general activities, allowance shall  .be made for normal expansion, emphasis being  placed on the development of international co-  operation between specialists and on the improve-  ment of documentation, particularly in States  which have recently becorne independent;  (b) among the special activities, the following  fields shall be given priority:
(1) Education:  primary and secondary education: teacher train-  ing, production of reading materials and survey  on school buildings;  higher education; aid to Member States, especi-  ally to those which have recently become independ-  ent, for the establishment of the necessary  institutions;  adult education: literacy campaign;  educational planning.    (if) Natural Sciences:  promotion of studies on natural resources,  especially in connexion with oceanography and  soil research;  improvement of the teaching of the basic sciences  in secondary schools and universities.  (iii) Social Sciences:  promotion of the teaching of the social sciences,  especially in developing countries;  study on the application of the social sciences to  economic and social development.
499  (iv) Cultural Activities:  translation of representative works; development  of libraries, especially in countries which have  recently become independent; preparation of guides  to sources of history.  (v) Mass Communication:  use of mass communication techniques in education,  especially in adult education; develupment of inter-  national understanding through mass communica-  tion.    (vi) International Exchange Service:  increase of budget estimates for grants in priority  fields.  (vit) National Commissions:  promotion of the development of activities recom-  mended to National Commissions.  (c) Major Projects:  ‘The Major Project on the Extension and Improve-  ment of Primary Education in Latin America and  the Major Project on the Mutual Appreciation of  Eastern and Western Cultural Values shall be con-  tinued and strengthened;  the project on the development of primary educa-  tion in Asia shall be converted into a Major Project  with a 30% increase over its budget estimates for
1961-1962,    (d) Publications:  Efforts should be made to widen the distribution  of Unesco publications and to encourage national  authorities to have them brought out in different  languages in accordance with a systematic long-  term plan,
(11) that the Director-General and the Executive Board  shall be asked to study the desirability of setting  up an 'Emergency Fund' to be used in cases where  exceptional and unforeseeable circumstances make  it urgently necessary to undertake new activities  not covered by the Regular programme; to take  appropriate action; and to report to the General  Conference at its next session, it being possible  to finance this fund from budgetary savings from  preceding financial periods and from extra-  budgetary resources such as voluntary contribu-  tions, the Special Account and, if possible, a loan  from the International Development Association,  ete.’ .
31. This draft resolution was simultaneously com-  municated to the Working Party of the General Con-  ference on Methods of Preparing the Programme and  Budget and to the Programme Commission. I myself  had the honour of submitting it to the former, of  which I was a member. Some delegations were  sympathetic, at least in principle; others expressed  reservations, saying that they had no instructions  from their governments, or objections to certain  points which seemed to them to require clarification.  At the conclusion of the discussion, I was given the  opportunity of speaking for a second time, to clear  up misunderstandings and to reply to objections.  Unfortunately, the report which is before you contains  only a small and, may I say, relatively disconnected   XXXI PLENARY  part of my statzment and my replies, and makes no  mention of the cogent further arguments put forward  by those who spoke in favour of this resolution. Con-  sequently, in the absence of minutes or even of a  tape-recording of the discussion, and to avoid any  future error in interpretation, I believe it to be my  duty to make the following statement:
32, Some members of the Working Party believed  and stated that, in their opinion, this proposal was  likely to produce a mechanical, arbitrary or fixed  increase, not founded on the real needs of the  Organization, Others had in mind an increase of 15%,  determined in advance and for all time, for all future  programmes. One delegation, which has always  spoken in favour of the steady development of  Unesaco's activities, even drew atténtion, in moving  tones, to the fate of tho taxpayer. Now there is  neither in the text of the draft, nor in the mind of its  author any juestion of an automatic or mechanical  increase, It is merely a matter of sanctioning in  principle an inevitable development which has been  going on for 14 years past, but, as I have sald, on  rule-of-thumb lines in circumstances which were  frequently confused, and - here I will use that word -  "mechanical", The predetermined but flexible in-  crease which I suggest, combined with the idea of  an "Emergency Fund", is inspired by life itself -  by the life of a sensible family which, on the one  hand, foresees an increase in the number of its  children or in their needs (that is to say, its  Regular programme) and, on the other hand, pro-  vides means of dealing with unexpected circumstances  or accidents, by creating a reserve fund, The same  observation is equally applicable to a wisely and  soundly organized administration,
33, HU, then, the prudent foresight of a family or  an administration in providing for possible expenses  can be termed mechanical or arbitrary, then the  same epithets should be applied to a predetermined  increase {nu Unesco's budgets, Moreover, is the  appraisal of Unesco's previous programmes, with a  view to utilizing the conclusions in the future, for  the implementation of long-term projects, anything  other than a technical and financial process planned  in advance? Furthermore, what needs are more  real than those for which provision ie made in the  basic programmes of Unesco, drawn up at Florence  and developed at Montevideo? And what particulars  could be more appropriate than those given - though  naturally only by way of example and as a basis for  discussion - with regard to priority activities, in  the Iranian proposal itself? Is it not strange that  this objection (namely, the difficulty a Conference  has in considering a provisional ceiling for a pro-  gramme to be prepared in the immediate future, e.g.  by the current session of the Conference with regard  to the programme for 1963-1964) should have been  put forward, probably as a result of misunderstand-  ing and hasty judgement, by delegates whose countriss  are renowned for the launching and success of their  five-year plans?
34, For these reasons, I still believe that, if the  Working Party had been set up at the very beginning  of the current session, and if, as a result, the  Iranian resolution and certain other resolutions had  had the good fortune to be discussed early enough,  the eleventh session of the General Conference would
500  MEETINGS  have been able to decide in favour of the principle of  a predetermined increase, Moreover, is it not true  that, even under the present system, the provisional  ceiling of the future budget !s estimated during the  first three or six months following the General Con-  ference? If, so soon after a session of the Confer-  ence, the Executive Board and the Director-General  find it possible to estimate the provisional ceiling for  the forthcoming period, why should the Conference  itself be incapable of doing likewise?
35, I may add that, in reply to a question from a  member of the Working Party, the Director-General  revealed that, during the preparation of the programme  for 1961-1962, and even before the events in Africa,  the Board and he himself had repeatedly changed their  minds ahout the provisional budget ceiling, the varia-  tions in its amount ranging from an 8% increase -  which was at first considered to be too much - to 14% -  which was considered too little - then down to a lower  percentage again, and finally sharply up to 18%. This,  gentlemen, is an example of one of the drawbacks,  one of the uncertainties arising from the absence of  a predetermined provisional framework.
36, What technical, legal, administrative or finan-  cial obstacle, then, prevents us from considering a  provisional budget ceiling for the next period, for a  programme which 16 always prepared immediately  after the end of a General Conference ?
37. It should be mentioned in passing that the figure  of 15%, which was suggested merely as an example,  could have been reduced or increased in 1963-1964  or in subsequent periods, so that there would be no  risk of a stabilized budget which might have compro-  mised Unesco's future.
38, At all events, the majority of the Working  Party, although, in our view, its members had  enough data before them to take a decision on the  first part of the operative section of the reaolution,  decided - perhaps because they met only at a compara-  tively late stage - to recommend that it be referred  by the General Conference to the Executive Board.  We thus find ourselves faced with two years of un-  certainty due to the prolongation of a system which  is open to criticiam of all kinds. In view of these  circumstances, which I cannot but call unfortunate,  and whilst reluctantly yielding to this decision, we  are convinced that the Executive Board will examine  this vital problem with the requisite attention,
39. 1 now come to the second pert of the operative  section of the draft resolution, which forms a whole  with the first part, since the two are mutually comple-  mentary. 1 wish to speak about the "Emergency  Fund", or, if you like, the "marginal or reserve  fund" for dealing with exceptional circumstances,  This matter, which we recommended for examination  Liy the Director-General and the next Executive Board,  tlso called forth favourable and unfavourable comment  with regard to its principle, Among the objections,  I would mention the conteution that, as there is  already a Working Capital Fund, a Technical Asaistance  Fund, a Special Fund etc., the establishment of the  proposed marginal fund would represent unnecessary  duplication. Now, according to Article 6.3 of the  Financial Regulations, the Working Capital Fund was  established to meet current expenses under the  Regular programme, pending the receipt of contribu-  tions, As far as the Technical Assistance and Special   PLENARY  Fund are concerned, since the moneys available are  planned in advance and devoted to specific pro?scts  they, like the Working Capital Fund, cannot be utilized  in emergencies, Furthermore, this Idea is not as  unusuzl ag it seemed to some members of the Work-  ing Party, since Article 6,6 of the Financial Regula-  tions states that trust funds, reserve and special  accounts may be established by the Director-General.
40, Aas for the utilization or provision of voluntary  contributions to finance this fund, which was chal-  lenged or called in question by some members, it  should be noted, and not without a certain bitterness,  that most countries - in particular the large ones -  are hesitant when there is any question of making  contributions of this kind, True generosity, above all  on the part of the large countries, towards the under-  developed countries, should take the form of volun-  tary contributions rather than of last-minute proposals  for increasing the budget ceiling, since such increases  then place a burden on all Member States, including  those which are economically weak, In other words,  as the proverb says: To make a friend is not a costly  thing, when offering water freely from the spring...
41, It has also been said that, instead of collecting  all voluntary and similar contributions in a marginal  fund, as we recommend, it would be better to allot  each fund to a given activity, But what, I ask, would  we then do in the event of an urgent and exceptional  situation for which no fund made provision?
42, It thus seems to me regrettable that it was not  possible for the Working Party to go thoroughly into  the various aspects of this proposal, and that even  the brief discussion which was held has neither been  adequately reflected in the report before you, nor  MEETINGS
501  XXX1  recorded in the minutes (for there were none) or on  tape. You are probably aware, too, that because of  the lack of time, it was not possible for the Programme  Commission to discues it.
43. These are the reasons which have led me, “ot  without embarrassment, totake up so much of your  very valuable time in order to leave at least a few  traces in the records of the plenary meetings, for the  attention of the Executive Board,
44, As stated a few minutes ago, 1 do not intend  to press for a discussion of this matter in plenary  ‘meeting nor to submit a resolution, Nevertheless,  I earnestly hope - and this is a formal proposal -  that the General Conférence will see fit to adopt two  minor amendments to draft resolution no.3, on page
11 of document 11 C/47.
45, The first would be to request the Director-  General to refer to the Executive Board not only the  draft resolutions and the Report in question, but  also all the points raised by delegations at plenary  meetings or meetings of subsidiary organs which  were directly or indirectly concerned with the subject  of document 11 C/47.
46, Seccndly, 1 would suggest the insertion in the  last paragraph of that resolution, beginning with  "Invites the Executive Board", of the words " .,.  and the Director-General’, for we all know that,  under the Constitution ard the various provisions of  the Financial Regulations, the preparation of the  programme and budget is mainly the responsibility  of the Director-General, subject, naturally, to the  observations of the Executive Board, which, for ita  part, is responsible to the General Conference for  the execution of the programme,