8 December 1960, at 10.40 a.m.  President: Mr. Paulo E, de BERREDO CARNEIRQ (Brazil)  CONTENYS  Discussion on International Relations aid Exchanges | in Edu-  cation, Science and Culture (continued)  DISCUSSION ON INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND EXCHANGES  IN EDUCATION, SCIENCE AND CULTURE (cominved)
1.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I declare the meeting open. Allow me to remind  you that this is the last day for discussing the question  submi tted to us; 19 delegates are already down to  speak and three others will only be able to speak if  there is time. I shall therefore be most grateful if  you will keep as closely as possible to the main  subject, 50 that every one may have the opportunity  of putting forward his proposals and suggestions,
1.2 I call upon H. E. Mr. Thayer, Head of the  delegation of the United States of America,
2.1 Mr. THAYER (United States of America):  Mr. President and distinguished delegates, I  wonder how many of us have had the opportunity of  examining closely the biographical information con-  cerning the delegates assembled at this Conference?  Who are the individuals present here? They are  ministers of education, miniaters of culture, prof-  essors of law, of science, of agriculture, of éco-  nomics. They are learned scholars, specialists in  the field of the humanities and the social and natural  sciences. These men and women have gathered here  for the purpose of exchanging views and planning a  common effort in the fields of education, acience  and culture - fields in which they all have a common  interest, à common concern and a broad background  of experience. They are bound together by the  common objective of advancing human knowledge, as  expressed s0 nobly in the words of the Unesco  Constitution. The personal relationships among  delegates in their respective flelds of interest at this  Conference are a perfect example of the relationships  of people to people. Scientists are meeting here with  scientists, educators with educators, scholars with  scholars, in earnest discussion of their specialties.  As I said in my opening speech to this Conference,  we are today entering a new era of people to people  relationships as cpposed to the old era of relation-  ships of government to government.
2.2 And yet, Mr. President, as I have attended  ‘working party meetings, commission meetings and  plenary meetings, 1 have been struck repeatedly by
375  ee ee 375  the extraordinary obstacle that, in spite of these  common bonds, seems constantly to plague, delay  and sometimes to disrupt our labours here. What is  this obstacle? It is the failure of communication.  How many times have I listened to confused arguments  consuming valuable time - arguments which have been  resolved finally by the sudden discovery that there  was a migunderstanding about the translation of a  noun or a verb or an adjective or an adverb. Even  when the words themselves were the same, different  connotations, meanings, emphasis, arising from  different habits and customs in different countries,  made it difficult to reach complete understanding.
2.3 In these days of extraordinarily rapid change  is there any question, Mr. President, but that the  most important thing in human relations is mutual  understanding? What does one mean by mutual  understanding? Mutual understanding does not mean  that we must agree with one another, it does not even  mean that we must like one another. It does mean,  however, that there should be such comprehension,  by one human being of another as to make it possible  for us to accept each other, intelligently and realisti-  cally, as individuals, and as individuals possessed  of all the dignity and rights to freedom of bellef and  expression which we Americans believe.are the  inalienable rights of all human beings. It means the  ability to establish complete and accurate  communication.
2.4 How can we rid ourselves of this obstacle of  failure of communication? How can we find a way to  establish mutual understanding?
2.5 We In the United States believe that there is no  better method of establishing mutual understanding  than through what we term international exchangea,  particularly the exchange of persons - bringing to  America students, teachers, scholars, leaders,  lecturers, artists, men and women in every field of  endeavour, to see our country with their own oyes,  to live in American homes, to participate in the life  of our communities, to enter the doors of our institu-  tiens, and sending Americans in all these same  categories abroad to your countries for the same  purpose.
2.6 Lectures and films and books and stories - even  the most modern devices of radio and television - are  all very well, but nothing can or ever will match the   XXIV PLENARY  magic of the contact of one human being with another.  The warmth of close personal relationship can only  lead to mutual understanding.
2.7 It is interesting to note how different are the  thoughts I am expressing today from those of the  Amerlcan leaders in the early days of our freedom.  Thomas Jefferson, who was one of the greatest  advocates of freedom of thought and one of the most  farsighted of early American leaders, once sald:  " Why send an American youth to Europe for an  education? Of all errors which can possibly be  committed in the education of youth, that of sending  them to Europe is the most fatal.” The American  student who went abroad, said Thomas Jefferson,  would end by losing " in his knowledge, in his morals,  in his health, In his habits and in his happiness."  The reasons for this declaration of Thomas Jefferson  were very clear. In order to foster the growth of  our indigenous culture, including an indigenous  education, it was believed necessary in those early  days that we be separated culturally as well as poli-  tically from the rest of the world. George Washington  told the Americans of the Revolution to beware of  entangling alliances, This desire for isolation is a  normal one for a young country. It can be seen today  and understood very well in the desire of the newly  emerging nations everywhere in the world to keep  away from the stormy winds of political tension.  They have too much work to do of *heir own to get  involved in the modern, entangling Jifferences of the  great powers, We in America can underatand that  feeling for we experienced it once very strongly  indeed, ourselves.
2.8 But today, Mr, President, isolation of any kind  in this modern world is well nigh impossible. The  advancements of science have made the peoples of  the most remote parts of Africa about as close to me  in Washington, today, as New York was to Boston  when I was a child. And in those days, may I tell  you, there was great rivalry between Boston and  New York. We in Boston, to borrow from Dr.  Samuel Johnson, said that the only good thing they  had in New York was the ten o'clock express train  to Boston.
2.9 And because isolation is difficult today we must  find quickly those common denominators which will  bind us together. We In the United States believe  that there is a field outside the tensions of politics,  outside the disagreementa and differences of both  great and small powers, where &)l people can come  together and in so doing achieve mutual understand-  ing. This is the field of education and cultural rela-  tions. This is the field of the relations of people to  people . This is the field of international exchange.
2.10 1 cannot agree wiih those who assert that the  cultures of the new nations of the world must be  developed within their borders without reference to  other cultures, We in the United States owe our  culture to the culture of all countries in the world.  In each State of the Union there live groups of indivi-  duals who speak only the native tongue they brought  with them; most of them have rotained their native  language to this day and we encourage them to do so.  But I believe it is of the utmost importance that every  area of the world have a lingua franca, that all  péoples be able to speak to each other with one voice.  There was à time when the Italian who came to New  MEETINGS  . 376  York could not understand a word spoken by the  Pennsylvania Dutchman who lived not far across the  river, even as today the people of one African  country who speak French cannot understand their  adjoining neighbours who speak English. These  evident obstacles to communication must be swept  away, and one of the primary obligations of the  countries of the Western world should be to help  bring to the continent of Africa common languages  which will facilitate communication.
2,11 But I am not only talking about communication  by word of mouth, although such communication will  necessarily facilitate the effectiveness of international  exchanges, The basic objective of the international  exchange of persons programme - that of establish-  ing mutual understanding - is also one of the basic  objectives of Unesco. There are of course other  objectives of the international exchange programme,  and it is interesting to note how identical these also  are to the objectives of Unesco.
2,12 Now let us consider what some of these are.  First of all there is the objective of enlarging man's  knowledge of himself and of the world about him.  This purpose stems fromthe ancient concept of the  international community of scholarship and it accepts  the proposition that knowledge is both the heritage of,  and a legacy to, all mankind and cannot be confined  behind national frontiers. Unesco almost by defini-  tion is dedicated to this same proposition and purpose.
2.13 Then there are exchanges for the purpose of  providing technical assistance to ccuntries that need  and desire such assistance, for example, in acqui-  sition of the specialized skills needed for eradicating  disease, the construction of dams and highways, the  diversification and increase of agricultural production.  and other measures to ensure the necessities and  some of the niceties of life. Many of such techniques  and aptitudes must be acquired or improved mainly  through study and training in another country. Here  again, Unesco's efforts in technical assistance are  testimony to the importance of this objective.
2.14 Another objective is that of enhancing capaci-  ties for civic leadership and responsibility. This  aim ts not yet as widely recognized as the others I  have mentioned, but at this Conference it looms as  one of the most important of all owing to the attain-  ment of independence, and the admission to Unesco  and other agencies representing the world community,  of 80 many new nations during the past year - with  others to follow suit in the years immediately alead.  These new nations, in developing their own forms of  self-government, seek to send their present and  potential leaders to study the arts of government as  practised elsewhere. The United States recognizes  that its own political structure, a product of {ts own  history, has many features that are not exportable.  Nevertheless, many of the phitesophical concepts  underlying this structure ave widely shared by others  and have, we believe, universal application: the  rights of the individual citizen, representative govern-  ment, a responsible and informed electorate, the  community spirit which pervades our country. We  welcome study by others of these concepts as they  operate in our soclety. Here again, I believe this  objective of our international exchange programme  is fully consonant with the purposes of Unesco.
2.15 In ~arrying out these objectives, Mr. President,   PLENARY  the American people have embarked upon a great  programme of international exchanges, At least
50,000 foreljtn students from 131 countries were  enrolled in institutions of university level in the  United States last year. Nearly 2,000 foreign  visitors were associated with the faculties of 288  American institutions and almost the same number  of United States professors were going abroad. !  said that the American people had embarked upon  this programme, because it is not only the United  States Government which is involved. We have in  the United States a pluralistic soctety, and nowhere  is the vitality and achievement of this soclety more  evident than in this area of international education  and cultural relations. American citizens, in their  voluntary associations, in professional and civic  groups, local communities and autonomous educa-  tional institutions give generously of their time,  their energies and their private personal resources  to promote communication with other peoples,  American private foundations, as many of the mem-  ber nations can attest from direct experience,  administer their great resources to give disinter-  ested assistance to projects that broaden man's  knowledge and enhance his welfare, The part which  the American people play in this exchange movement,  entirely independently of the United States Govern-  ment, is very great indeed and is growing larger  every day, as community after community enthusi-  astically join together in a common effort to get to  know and understand all the peoples of the world and  to be understood by them.
2.16 The United States Government offers every  poasible assistance to these private efforts and  orchestrates its own government programmes to  conform with them. The Fulbright programmes  with their binational character are, of course, well  known to all nations; and I think it is an extremely  important concept on which they are based, that  exchanges should be carried out {n close consultation  with the nation concerned.
2.17 Time will not permit me to give more than  passing reference to exclianges in cultural materials  of all kinds and to the many examples of our artistic  endeavours in both the performing and visual arts  which we send to other countries annually, Suffice  it to say that along with students and teachers and  scholars must and do go books, periodicals, films,  musical scores and instruments. The successful  international exchange of persons builds relationships  which inevitably lead to exchanges in every facet of  the life of each country involved - that is why they  are so important. And with this exchange comes  understanding, and with understanding coings the  ability to communicate clearly and accurately.
2.18 As is apparent from speeches that have been  made from this rostrum during the last day or so,  many nations in the world have seen the value of  cultural diplomacy and the relationships of people to  people and have embarked on important programmes  of international exchange. As these programmes  necessarily now turn instinctively towards the new  nations of Africa and the fast developing areas of  Latin America, the Arab States and Asia, some  form of International co-ordination of these pro-  grammes assumes considerable importance It  seems to me, Mr. President, that Unesco can play a  MEETINGS
377  XX1v  rôle of great importance in the dissemination of  information about the activities of Member States ir  the field of international exchange and act in an  advisory capacity in all such efforts - both bilateral  and multilateral. I hope that this rôle will continue  to be studied carefully by the Executive Board and  by the Secretariat In the months ahead, so that at the  next Conference all of us who look with such hope  and enthusiasm upon this great effort towards  improving mutual understanding and communication  between the peoples of the world can turn to Unesco  for assistance in achieving our common objectives.
2.19 In this rich field of education, science and  culture, it seems to me that we have a golden oppor-  tunity to create, in the decade ahead, a basis for  international relationships which the world has never  known before. To do this we must control the:  instincts of that vevy political creature, the human  being, set aside those things which divide us and  search out only those things which bind us closely  together.
2,20 I am glad to say, Mr. President, that in my  Government today there is no opposition to inter-  national exchange. Senator John Kennedy, the  President-Elect has said: "There ic no more  natural rôle for the United States of America on the  world scene than to lead the way in a programme of  international educational development, The new  generation of Americans is not complacent, They  have the insight and the will to share a part of their  professional lives working side by side with the men  and women in the underdeveloped areas. They have  inherited in full measure the sense of human fellow-  ship, the sense of mission and of adyenture that sent  their grandparents and their great-grandparents out  into Asia as missionaries, doctors and teachers."
2.21 And may I close, Mr. President, with the  words of President Eisenhower, spoken at New Delhi  University, in India, on 11 December 1959: " More  enduringly than from the deliberations of high  councils, I belleve mankind will profit when the young  men and women of all nations - and in great numbers -  study and learn together. In go doing, they will  concern themselves with the problems, the possibili-  ties, the resources and the rewards of a common  destiny. Through centuries, nations have sent their  youth, armed for war, to oppose their neighbours.  Let us, in this day, look on our youth, eager for  larger and clearer knowledge, as forces for inter-  national understanding and send them, one nation to  the other, on missions of peace."  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 call upon Professor Rodolphe de Salle, delegate  of Switzerland.
4.1 Mr. de SALIS (Switzerland) (Translation from  the French):  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, my conntry  is ta’ing an ever increasing interest in international  relations and exchanges in education, science and  culture.
4.2 It has no hesitation, therefore, in approving  and supporting Unusco's work for a better under-  standing between ‘the peoples of the world. Peace -  a true peice and not à cold peace - is the aim towards  which we are all aspiring, and we are completely in   XXIV PLENARY  favour of obtaining this peace by means of intellect-  ual co-operation, technical assistance and ever  closer relations in the field of education, science  and culture.
4,3 It appears to me that, no manner what our  nationality or form of government, we have certain  principles in common, and the same applies to the  techniques governing exchanges.
4,4 It seems, however, from the Economic and  Social Council's examination of this problem that  "there is no recognized procedure for co-operation,  let alone co-ordination, between the activities of the  international organizations and those developed by  States within the context of their bilateral relations."
4.5 In document E/3352/Add.1 dated 10 May 1960,  to which I have just referred, the Economic and  Social Council suggests that we should develop  exchanges of information between intergovernmental  organizations and the authorities responsible for  bilateral programmes, and that the latter should be  brought to the knowledge of the intergovernmental  organizations.
4,6 So far as Switzerland is concerned, I may say  at once that we hope for better co-ordination between  bilateral activities and the multilateral ones of  Unesco. 1f Unesco, in accordance with its pro-  gramme, is to promote mutual understanding and  appreciation between peoples of different culture, it  must be able to depend on the fairly close network  of bilateral relations between those peoples.
4.7 Moreover, if Unesco wants to devise a method  of co-operation and co-ordination between multilateral  and bilateral activities in education, science and  culture, we are quite prepared to give our assistance.
4.8 Incidentally, the absence of cultural agreements  has in no way prevented my country from developing  its relations and exchanges in the fields under con-  sideration vjth countries all over the world. The  following avé the principles governing Switzerland's  educational, scientific and cultural relations with  other countries:  (a) We try to develop such relations quite inde-  pendently of politics, and that is why we entrust  them to autonomous national non-governmental  organizations.  (b) We do not allow activities and propaganda of  an indiscreet or inappropriate nature.  (c) We alm at exchanges of as disinterested and  spontaneous à nature as possible and such as safe-  guard the freedom of action of the parties to them  and ensure the good faith of their relations.
4.9 In the interests of a better co-ordination of  bilateral and multilateral programmes, Switzerland  is of course prepared to supply Unesco with any  information it would like about our activities in the  field of bilateral relations and exchanges, We  should like to see a special service established at  Unesco for receiving information from Member  States concerning their programmes, activities and  requirements in the field of cultural, acientific and  educational relations, and for supplying Member  States with information on the activities of other  States in the same field. This would furnish know-  ledge of the existing network, recognition of short-  comings and gaps, and would create a still closer  network in the interests of better understanding  between the peoples of the world.  MEETINGS
4.10 As for the practical ways and mesns of attain:  ing the objective under consideration, we are in full  agreement with the move to increase the teaching of  living languages. Switzerland, whose laws and  customs ensure peace and close solidarity between  populations speaking four different languages and  whose intellectual traditions are cosmopolitan, has  always fostered the teaching of living languages At  the Zurich Polytechnic School where I teach, the  language and literature of the principal European  countries are spoken and taught in separate faculties;  Russian and Chinese are also taught.
4.11 But the teaching of living languages should not  be considered merely from a practical angle, as a  means of communicating with foreigners, What is  important is that knowledge of a language should be  the means of getting to know the literature, philo-  sophical thought, history and scientific work of the  country in question, It is not the language but the  civilization expressed by the language which matters,  if we really want to achieve a better understanding  between nations with different histories, and ways of  thinking and feeling.
4.12 Looked at ir this light, translations are  merely a means of approach. I will, however, add  that the leading nations ought themselves to have the  most important scientific works appearing in their  countries translated into one or two other widely  spoken languages. The leading non-governmental  scientific associations should agree among them-  selves on the publication of the results of their  scientific research in two or three of such languages.
4.13 Need I add that, in my country, technical  assistance to underdeveloped countries is a popular  movement. The authorities lend their support to it;  business and industry, the universities and various  ad hoc assoclations take an active hand in the matter,  I have rejoiced to learn that Swiss youth - especially  university students and even secondary school  children ~ ascertains the needs of the emerging  countries of Asia and Africa and associates itself  public spiritsdly with the assistance we give them in  their admirable efforts to increase their freedom and  well-being.
4.14 Our young people have met their fellows from  the newly independent countries and have exchanged  views with them. Young African scientists, lawyers,  teachers and administrators have visited our country  to study the working of our scientific institutes, our  schools, our law courts and our democratic institu-  tions. Many students from the Arab world and from  other countries of Asia and Africa attend our univer-  sities and our Polytechnic School. They are  welcomed as brothers. They must, of course, follow  the same curriculum and fulfil the same conditions  as Swiss students, if they wish to obtain university  degrees; for this is the only way really to render  them service and the only way of ensuring perfect  equality between peoples of different origins and races.
4.16 Iimagine that we all agree in wanting technical  and economic assistance to be accomparied by a  cultural programme. Direct intervention in economic  and technical development would be insuftictent if it  were not supplemented by a more or lees indirect  humanitarian and humanist influence. Itis obvious  that highly developed countries can render service  to other countries which are in process of developing   PLENARY  their national economy and assimilating the tech-  niques of contemporary industrial society. But we  do not live exclusively by machines, industrial and  agricultural production, public health and good  administration. The human mind, the human intelll-  gence and the human soul require other sustenance  than bread.
4.16 Here, I think, les true reciprocity of  exchanges and relations in the field of culture  between countries and continents at a different level  of development, Exchanges of persons are essential,  not only for new countries which need the technical  assistance of older countries, but also for the old  countries themselves, if they are to get to know and  appreciate better the "rising generation" of mankind.
4,17 The safeguarding of Africa's cultural heritage  and local languages - as our colleague from  Madagascar pointed out the other day - is just as  important as the building of factories and hospitals.  The delegate of Mall, who pleaded the cause of  folklore and crafts, was no doubt right in accusing  Europeans of not understanding the meaning of tradi-  tions as handed down from father to son. Tradition  has a power, he said, which {8 more rapid and  effective than administration in getting things done.
4,18 It now appears from what our African  colleagues have told us that we too, in Europe, have  much to learn from them and from the people whom  they represent. Our educational system needs modi-  fying for use in Africa. It would be wrong to try to  impose our ways of thinking and living on people who  have developed their own e¢ivilizations and customs  to suit their social climate. Unesco and its Member  States should recognize the basic principle that a  reapect for national and cultural differences is the  basis of mutual understanding and equality between  peoples, whether they are large or small, rich or  poor, economically developed or in process of  development. Assistance should not be offered in a  patronizing way, but in a apirit of brotherhood and  mutual respect. The assistance will be all the more  effective if those who want to help do so not only  spontaneously and disinterestedly, but draw inspira-  tion from the experience and advice and also from  the accumulated store of wealth in those countries  we miscall "new".
4.19 I now come to my last point - the practical  measures to be taken to facilitate exchanges of edu-  cational, scientific and cultural material and  exchanges of persons. You may be quite certain,  ladies and gentlemen, that my country approves  these measures and is ready to implement them in  a most liberal spirit. Would {t not be possible also  to use the press to spread this information?
4,20 Let me give you an example. Recently, a  Polish newspaper and a Swiss newspaper decided to  publish on the same day a cultural supplement, each  dealing with the other'a country. The daily " Zycie  Warszawy" made available to the "Journal de  Gendve" articles dealing with various aspects of  cultural life in Poland, and the Geneva daily sent to  its opposite number in Warsaw articles on cultural  life in Switzerland.
4.21 Here, it appears to me, is An excellent  example of a spontaneous initiative representing a  new form of cultural exchange. In articles and  essays, the two sides informed each other with
379  MEETINOS XXIV  complete good faith and frankness of the cultural  efforts and achievements of their countries. I think  this example is all the more striking since the two  countries are of different culture and language and  also differ in their political and social structure.
4.22 We know that there is still a lot to do before  we attain the objective of real understanding and  peace based on an infimate knowledge of the way of  life and mentality of different peoples. But we refuse  to be discouraged, Mr. President, my delegation  expresses its entire confidence in the Executive  Board and the Director-General of Unesco, who will  successfully achieve the immense and difficult task  to which they have devoted the best of themselves,
5. The PRESIDENT (Translation from tiie French):  I call upon Dr. Adolf Hoffmeister, delegate of  Czechoslovakia.
6.1 Mr, HOFFMEISTER (Czechoslovakia)  {Translation from the French):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, if there is  to be healthy cultural development it is essential  that there should be international exchanges of  thought, creative suggestions and knowledge.
6.2 I would therefore draw your attention to the  large selection of classical, contemporary and avant-  garde works published by Czéchoslovakla, which is  a country that can be proud £f its enormous produc-  tion of translations from all the lenguages of the  world. Possibly we publish almost too many of them.
6.3 The number of foreign exhibitions, concerts by  foreign artists and orchestras, and performances of  foreign plays is very large. As an ei'ample, 1 would  remind you that exhibitions of Dutch, Swedish,  Brazilian and Yugoslav books have been organized  in a single year.
6.4 Czechoslovakia is trying to become a centre  for organizing international meetings and for the  holding of artistic competitions and sclentific con-  gresses. It is also a meeting place where artists  and scientists can get to know one another and form  friendships.
6.5 It will suffice to recall to you that the Inter-  national Music Festival " Springtime in Prague" - a  recognized member of the Association of European  Festivals - has become a tradition in the musical  world. Ladies and gentlemen, you should come one  day and listen to this harmony of sounds in Prague,  a musical capital, and very beautiful in cherry time.
6.6 The same applies to the International Film  Festival at Karlovy Vary, one feature of which  distinguishes it from other festivals: it regularly  receives a large contingent of young film producers  (about forty).
6,7 And this year for the first time the Inter-  national Amateur Film Festival was held at  Marianské Lazne,
6,8 Among the conferences organized in 1960, I  may mention the great Inttrnational Conference on  the Physics of Semi-conductors, organized by the  Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences.
6.9 As from 1962 the Streznice Folklore Festivals  will alao assume the character of an international  festival of folk music, songs and dances.
6.10 The Czechoslovak Socialist Republic has con-  cluded cultural agreements and made plans for   xXxIV PLENARY  co-operation with a number of States, In addition to  the Socialist countries, with which agreements were  made as far back as 1948, theso include the follow-  ing: United Arab Republic, Iraq, India, Indonesia,  Guinea and Ethiopia, Agreements with Mexico, Mall  and Ghana are being worked out.
6.11 We consider thai cultural relations imply that  the liberated African nations should be allowed their  say, and we disapprove of the attitude adopted in  plenary session at the close of the debate on the  admission of the Congo (Capital: Leopoldville) when  those who wanted to express their point of view on a  problem of direct concern to them were gagged.
6.12 Czechoslovakia has also established excellent  cultural relations with the Chinese People's Republic,  and we derive the greatest possible intellectual  benefit from them, You may well regret depriving  yourselves of the experienced representatives of  what the whole world recognizes to be among the  foremost civilizations of the world, for the Chinese  are a nation of sages. As has been said within this  building, the Chinese invented printing, but they took  good care not to invent newspapers; they invented  gunpowder, but not the gun; they discovered the  compass, but did not use it to discover America.  The Czechoslovak Socialist Republic welcomes  systematic co-operation with all countries inspired  by the same desire to develop friendship and mutual  respect between the peoples of the world and to lay  the foundations of peaceful coexistence. For Social-  ism has created not only the political but algo the  material conditions for the cultural advance of  soclety, and the harmonious blossoming of man's  talents and capabilities.
6.13 The Czechoslovak Governinent devotes  considerable financial resources to the development  of cultural exchanges. It is only with the material  help of the State that it was possible to undertake the  organization of exhibitions such as those held  recently in Prague and the Soviet Union to mark the
16th anniversary of the liberation of Czechoslovakia,  the exhibition of Czechoslovak glassware shown in  Moacow, and later in Paris, the exhibition of ancient  art from prehistorical times to the end of the 16th  century - about which " Le Figaro" wrote: "It is the  sort of exhibition which can only be seen in Paris  once in à hundred years" - and lastly the exhibition  "The Little World" by Jiri Trnka; although you may  not have seen it yourselves, your. children certainly  will have.
6.14 Mention should also be made of the Czecho-  slovak Philharmonic Orchestra's tour of Australia,  New Zealand, India, Japan and the Soviet Union, the  visit of the orchestra without its conductor to several  countries of Latin America, the Czechoslovak Circus  tour to Japan, Burma and India, the exhibition of  Czechoslovak glassware in India, etc,
6.16 With generous help from the State, it has been  possible also to organize in Czechoslovakia large  foreign exhibitions auch as the exhibition of the great  Brazilian painter Portinari and those of the Japanese  artists who described the tragedy of Hiroshima.
6.16 Czechoslovakia gives much friendly assistance  to the young States which have emerged or are  emerging from their struggle for national indepen-  dence against colonialism. It welcomes large  numbers of foreign students, of whom there are
380  MEETINGS  about 2,500 from various countries now ih Czecho-  slovakia, Nearly all of them hold Czechoslovak  scholarships, most of which are granted to the  nationals of Asian and African countries. Thirty  scholarships are awarded each year through the  United Natlons to young people from non-autonomous  territories. Several dozens of others are allotted to  international organizations such as the International  Union of Students, the International Federation of  Democratic Youth, etc.
6.17 The Czechoslovak National Spartakiade ig a  great cultural and sporting event which has always  aroused much interest abroad, The Strahov Stadium  in Prague, where the 1860 Spartaklade was held, can  hold 70,000 competitors, constituting a huge mass  demonstration. Moreover, if we add the local  Spartakiades to the regional ones, the number of  men, women and children taking part comes to  several millions, i is already possible to deliver  mankind from the nightmare of another world war  and to establish cultural relations between all  countries on a basis of peaceful coexistence. The  Czechoslovak delegation therefore strongly protests  against the obstacles which certain countries put in  the way of cultural relations,
6.18 In conclusion, I should like to express a wish  on behalf of my delegation. We do not want so much  to change methods and reorganize working pro-  grammes, but we should welcome a new atmosphere  at Unesco, a spirit of friendship and brotherhood  which alone can do away with the abuses of bureau-  cracy and the time wasting accumulation of paper  work.
7.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I think that the spirit of solidarity which Mr.  Hoffmeister would like to see reigning at Unesco is  already being manifested at this present exchange of  views. 5
7,2 1 call upon Professor Mahadevan, delegate of  India.
8.1 Mr. MAHADEVAN (India):  Mr. President, and honourable delegates, having  been born at the very beginning of the century and  having witnessed two periods of world war, 1 feel  that we are today living in an age of miracles - a  most momentous period in the history of mankind.  It is not the discovery of the atom bomb or the  hydrogen bomb, the sputnik or the guided missile  that inspires me, I have no interest in them. From  legend and eple, from ancient history, mediaeval  history and modern history we know the end of all  brute force, We have as a reminder the classical  story of Kausica, an arrogant prince who wanted to  subdue the sage Vasista, of great spiritual eminence.  Kausica gathered all his brute force to vanquish the  sage, but he could not. Ultimately, he came to the  conclusion: " Dig balam kshtria balam - brahmathaejo  balam balam" - "Brute force is absolutèly useless  before spiritual power." We have also witnessed  often in our own lifetime the end of brute force,  Therefore, I am very happy that in this age, under  the inspiring guidance of the United Nations and of  this Organization particularly, we are witnessing  miracles.
8.2 À few years ago, as the President of the Rotary   PLENARY MEETINGS  Club of Vishakapatnam, I invited an African national  who was a sponsored scholar at our university to  take part in our United Nations day celebration at the  university. That boy said, almost with tears in his  eyes: ‘Please don't forget Africa, as long as Africa  is in bondage there can be no true freedom in the  world", I am proud today to feel that nations which  were subject nations yesterday and the day before,  are today sitting on terms of perfect equality, of  fraternity, with their erstwhile masters, who are  sympathetic and understanding and are trying to  solve their national problems. This, to my mind,  is a miracle, we are living in an age of miracles.  The greatest achievement of this age is, as I have  said, not the great destructive weapons that are  being discovered and perfected but the idea of the  Urdted Nations and the ideology for which Unesco  stands,
8.3 I am very happy that we fn Unesco, and in the  United Nations, practise International relations and  exchange In education, science and culture, inter-  national, scientific and technical co-operation and  exchange of cultural workers. This lays stress on  exchange, not on aid - I hope you sense the differ-  ence between ald to underdeveloped nations and  exchange. The materially well off nations today are  in a position to give scientific help and material help  to other nations which are not, some of them for  historic reasons, so prosperous as they are, We  are grateful for that help, at the same time I am  happy to feel that Unesco has realized the importance  of the interchange or the exchange of values. These  nations, like my own for instance, have something  to give to the nations which are giving us material  help - our philosophy, our long history, our social  achievements and our tranquility, our attitude  towards life which teaches us and helps us to main-  tain balance of mind, detachment from material  objectives. The great message of Gîtah, that is a  message which we have to give and one which I  consider to be no less valuable to all the nations of  the world than the material help that we are receiving  today. Buddha in the past, Mahatma Gandhi, not so  long ago, have taught thd world the doctrine of love,  toleration, the doctrine of Ahimsa, or non-violence,  and they are living forces the world over, Buddhism  has spread to practically half of humanity, Gandhian  ideology is certainly an inspiration to most of the  thinking minds of the world. Those are also our  contributions and therefore the term " exchange" is  eminently suitable. People In prosperity, for  whose gifts to us we are grateful, may also, I hope,  receive something of lasting value for their own  happiness and for their peace of mind which they  will cherish.
8.4 The United Nations and Unesco conferences  have been a great source of inspiration tome, The  various conferences and committees have taken  measures long thought out, for helping all the  courtries. I have been associated with the Natural  Sciences Commission on work in the arid regions,  oceanographic research, etc., In which projects  have been approved in the committees, and will have  far-reaching importance for the happiness and  material prosperity of the underdeveloped countries.
8.5 India has participated very actively in the  exchange visitors programme. I do not propose to  XX1v  ,  catalogue here the various things that we have done  in our country in the fields of education, sociology,  science and translation to further the objects of  Unesco. Almost every university in India has a  United Nations club and a Unesco club, and United  Nations Day and the opening of the United Nations  General Assembly are celebrated as great events in  my own university, when students and teachers act  as representatives of the varlous nations in discues-  ing world problems.
8.6 Unesco's help is apparent to us in several  fields: whenever we lack a small part of an instru-  ment we write for help, not to the Government, but  to the Unesco Office at Delhi, and we receive it  promptly, Unesco is a living institution in India,  During the years 1958-1960 about twenty Indian  nationals in different fields were sponsored by Unesco  for visits to various countries. We alao recelved  during these years 1958-1960 scholars in varioua  fields and of different nationalities and gave them  opportunities to visit institutions, study in universities  or to travel and investigate for themselves the special  fields in which they were interested - education,  trade unionism, technological studies, culture,  dancing, music, and so on.
8.7 Weare also very grateful to Unesco for th  help received in technical assistance and I woula like  to mention here, too, our participation in these pro-  grammes, 1 myself had the great good fortune, in
1956, as I was going to Brazil as an expert in geology  to work with the FAO Commission, to be given by  our President, H.E. Dr. Carneiro, intrüductions to  the Director of the Bureau of Mines, and a number  of other important persons. ! believe that in my own  humble way in the seven montha field work I carried  out in Brazil, I contributed my mite, 1 claim that I  brought to light some véry important alluvial tin  deposits which ought to be worked in Amazonia, and  I have submitted all my notes to the Department of  National Production of Minerals in the hope that they  will bear fruit at some time when it is possible to  pursue investigations,
8.8 On the other hand, the cultural contacts we  made ~ the understanding that we brought to the  people with whom we came into contact and the  friendships and observations that we were able to  make were of colossal significance to me. Brazil,  and I! have been to most countries in the world, offers  without doubt the most perfect example of racial  integration, of absolute lack of any colour consclous-  ness. The pretos, the blancos, the morenos, the  blacks, the whites and the browna live’'in perfect  harmony. Ihave seen this with my owt eyes, as  nowhere else. During the time I was there, a teacher  who refused to admit a dark boy in his class was  sentenced to two years’ imprisonment. This is a  country which I learned to respect and regard as a  most perfect example of the integration of various  colours and nationalities of the world, I still cherish  the happlest memories of the hospitality, too, of the  Brazillane in far-off places - in the Amazon and its  tributaries when sometimes my family wae with me  .on the expeditions. They would give ue fruits and
381  "If you want to pay, pay us so  much, otherwise you need not". Such hospitality  and friendliness 1 have seen nowhere else. Apart  from our technical work, I believe that we, in our  vegetables saying:   NXxiVv  small way, brought our culture to those who came  into contact with us, Columnists often used to come  to us to discuss our sdcial customs and system and  write about them in their papers. They also wrote  about our work and our stay there. Therefore,  technical assistance 18 not only a question of technical  help but it also broadens the cultural background.  We try, as we werk in a particular country, to under-  stand the couniry and to transmit to them our own  cultural heritage. I therefore feel this is one of the  greatest things that Unesco has done.
8.9 I wish now merely to touch upon some aspects  of the work that we have been doing in India in the  translation of books of living languages. A catalogue  of those which have been translated into Hindi is  given In the report of the National Commission for  India. In adapting education to the needs of inter-  national understanding, we are trying to rewrite  history free of prejudice, of political tints and to  bring out the sallent features of the greatness of  nations so as to foster human understanding, Our  Government has appointed some outstanding historians,  Professor Magumder and others, to do this most  important work, .You cannot pour poison in the form  of distorted history into young minds and expect them  to develop into the kind of world citizens which are  needed today. Everywhere, in whatever country,  we must foster in our young people respect for other  nations, other cultures; we must not poison their  minds or try to indoctrinate them We have found the  need for books to foster international understanding  and are taking active steps to produce them. INSDOC,  which is sponsored by Unesco, is doing wonderful  service to all research workers in assembling  scientific documentation, and we are greatly inter-  ested in the programme of scientific documentation  and {ta systematization in order that such documenta-  tion shall be available to all.
8.10 Almost every programme that has been detailed  in the documents that have been given to us has been  actively pursued in our universities and institutions.  I wish merely to make a few suggestions. I take it  that bilateral help is understoid in two ways, bilateral  help from government to government, bilateral help  between one government and another, through Unesco.  In our country we have both types of help. We receive  direct help - under the Fulbright Act I myself was a  recipient of a grant to visit the Massachusetts  Institute of Technology in 1951 as à visiting professor  for one term under the exchange visitors programme.  I visited other universities and institutions as well,  and I know what good it hab done me; Gut of 350  members in the faculty about 120 had carried out post-  doctoral work in the United States and in other’  countries, under the Colombo Plan. 'Soine of them  are now fn the USSR, indeed, one of ‘my own colleagues  is now studying in Moscow. Through bilateral arrange-  ments a good deal of work is being done, but I often  wonder whether all bilatéral help should not be pro-  cessed through Unesco. I know that help is given  without strings, help is accepted without strings. But  whatever the understanding that there are no strings,  when help is received an obligation ia felt by the  receiving country toward the giver. Not that there  should not be a feeling of obligation, but the donor  country also feels it is giving. In this connexion, I  might cite from one of the great Vedic texts, the  PLENARY MEETINGS  *  Upanishads, some Instructions given by the preceptor,  the guru or the teacher, to hie student at the time of  his leaving or, as we might say, on his graduation.  " Whatever you give, give with reverence. Do not  give without reverence, Give out of your prosperity.  Give with all your heart. Give with humility. Do not  give with the feeling of patronage", ! often have felt  that, while we are very grateful for the help we are  receiving through bilateral arrangements, it might be  an excellent idea to process it through the United  Nations organization such as Unesco. In my opinion  it will Le twice blessed if that Is done. I know that  we have our Institute of Technology at Bombay; the  Russian help ts processed through Unesco. In  addition to the bilateral arrangements there are also  direct arrangements through which some help is  received directly. But if all countries would decide  to give through Unesco whatever help they give, from  whatever source, it would indeed be a very great day.  We will not feel the less grateful - for thosé countries  are known - the donors will be Fnown, but those who  receive will be, \ feel, somewhat happier.
8.11 With the entry of many new African States into  the United Nations and Unesco, we face the problem of  trying to give them the necessary help, I do not wish  to appear wise, when the Director-General and his  associates have put their hearts into the work. I feel  that fleld services are necessary and that we must  support the Director-General in all the fleld services  that are necessary to gauge requirements on the spot  and to see ‘what type of help is really required.  Different countries are at different stages of develop-  ment, even the so-called underdeveloped countries.
1 do not like that term. We may be underdeveloped in  certain respects and overdevéloped in certain other  respects, but ! somehow resent the term " under-  developed" . Given time and opportunities every  country will be as good as any other country. Let us  remember this basic fact. At the same time Unesco  will have to decide the relative priorities, in consulta-  tion with the governmients, and convince them if neces-  rary, and show what type of help is really required.
8.12 Whereas we are all keen jé help the nations of  Africa, other nations in Latin America, In South East  Asla, which are receiving help, should not be ignored.  We are progressing very rapldly, indeed I am amazed  at the progress that my own country has been making  within the last few years, We are trying to make moat  of our equipment ourselves. Most of what we thought  we could not do we have found today that we can do,  and we want to do more. But we will require the  continued help of Unesco under the Technical Assist-  ance programme and in almost every other branch.  We hope that Unesco ¢an continue to give us help and  will not feel that resources are limited, that it cannot  give anything to those countries which have already  received some help. 1 believe also that Unesco should  sponsor only technical assistance of a limited nature  and at the end of which the country cencerned will be  able to stand on its own feet. This is very important,  I have stressed it on other occasions bécause I am  aware that some of the help that is being given by  Unesco lasts only so long as the expert is there When  he leaves there is nobody to continue the work. Unesco  must organize its help in such a manner that in a  limited period of two or three or four years, the  nationals of the country will be able to continue the   PLENARY  work. It is absolutely essential that the expert should  have an understudy; if not, it js better not to give  help until such time as the country is able to produce  one, The continuity of the work will depend on the  availability of persons to take up the work, There is  sometimes a tendency to feel that help from Unesco  will continue for ever, without any ‘efforts on the part  of the recipient, ! do not say that this is universal  but I would suggest that experts must be given proper  understudies, so that ‘hey can come away with the  feeling "here I have done my job, the job is going to  be done by the national as well as I have done." That,  in my opinion, is most neceasary,
8.13 I urge also that some amount of active, definite  help be given by Unesco to universities and scientific  institutions for the purchase of books and equipment.  I know of the Unesco coupons, but those coùpons are  given to the governments, and the governments have  their own priorities among technical institutions that  they have set up. The universities can only receive  a very small part of that help, and this is hardly  enough. Our own exchange resources are very  limited. We mist see that first things come first,  and therefore I urge that Unesco find the ways -and  means by which universities, technical institutions -  requiring help in the form of books or equipment for  which they are prepared to pay, can receive some  exchange facilities, Such help will go a long way to  step up our standards of work; we are held up even  in my own laboratory, in my own university, where  I happen to be in charge of the Science Departments.  We are very often held up by lack of exchange facili~  ties and, if Unesco can come to our ald, it will be of  the greatest assistance.
8.14 I wish also to stress the point that, in our  cultural exchanges and cultural missions, we ought to  ensure that the best of a naticn's culture is repre-  sented elsewhere. In all countries there are different  types of culture, and we must see to it that the best  of these cultures - what is representative of their  highest traditions - is shown and encouraged, so that  people will gain a true, healthy and appreciative  perspective,
8.15 With regard to mass ¢ommunications I have a  further suggéstion to make. In our programmes we  refer to books and periodicals; but the people behind  the periodicals are the journalists - they can work  havoc and they can also do n great deal of good,  Editors and journalists are the people who make the  newspapers and I would say, therefore, that special  attention should be pald to éncourac {ng journalists  and editors, under the exchange programme, to visit  other countries, to see for themselves and go back  with ideas which will be helpful for mass communica-  tion, for the exchange of ideas and for cultural appre-  ciation. My friend, Mr. Rao, who is the editor of  one of our most influential and respected papers, has  just suggested to me that if such a proposal were  taken up more actively, it would do much ta improve  international understanding.
8,16 Gentlemen, 1 shall tlose my talk with a Vedie  incantation which to me symbolizes the spirit of  Unesco. Sahana Vavatu - !' Let there be toleration".  Sahanau bhunaktu - " Let all of us seek nourishment -  both spiritual and material knowledge" . Sana Viryam  Karavavahal - " Let us act and do great deeds  together, in a common apirit of understanding" .  MEETINGS
383  XX1v  Thejaswina Wadhitamastu - " Let there be spiritual  enlightenment to all of ua", Om Shanti Shanti  Shantihi - " Let ihere be eternal peace for all of us",
9.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I would like to thank Professor Mahadevan for  having so strongly emphasized that assistance is only  truly efficacious when it is a two-way service and  that this is the spirit in which Unesco should do its  work oi international assistance. You will excuse me  if I add a word of thanks for his reference to the  welcome he received in those remote districts of the  Amazon which are spiritually so akin to the ancient  districts of the Ganges,
9.2 I call upon Mr, Bernard Ducret, the representa-  tive of the international non-governmental  organizations.
10,1 Mr, DUCRET (International non-governmental  organizations) (Translation from the French):  Mr, President, ladies and gentleinen, may I first  of all on behalf of the non-governmental international  organizations as a whole, express our profound grati-  tude for the honour you have done us in allowing us to  take up a few minutes of your precious time, We hope  that the precedent thus created, which we appreciate,  will not be forgotten in the future. We know in any  case that to a very large extent it is owing to the  quality of the work of the non-governmental organiza-  tions and the care they devote to collaborating in  Unesco's work, that they can justify being allowed to  speak in such an assembly. Mr. President, I would  also like to excuse myself if the few remarks I shall  make differ somewhat from the speeches delivered  this morning, My words of course are influenced by  my situation as President of the Conference of Non-  Governmental Organizations and not by that of mouth-  piece of those organizations. At least, I shall be  much briefer than the distinguished speakers who  have preceded me. I thus hope to gain your indulgence.
10.2 Document UNESCO/CAX/RP.1 shows that  there are already more than one thousand non-govern-  mental organizations. It would therefore be both  foolish and presumptuous for me to attempt in these  few minutes to give you an account of their work or to  draw attention to the features of their co-operation  with intergovernmental orgénizations, more parti-  cularly with Unesco. I shall confine myself to a few  points which my experience and relatively close  association with various aspects of Unesco's activities  have shown me to bé particularly important.
10.3 Anyone studying this problem may well feel  somewhat perplexed by the large numbér of non-  governmental organizations - a feeling which may be  further Increased on hearing that efforts are to be  made to promote the création of yet more non-govern-  mental organizations, Although this form of over-  population inevitably creates problems and is liable to  add to the number of strictly administrative services  and activities with which we are all burdened, it must  not be forgotten that, today in particular, “everything  designed to unite men, to break down the barriers by  which they are so often. divided, and to promote under-  standing among them, should be encouraged. Iam  therefore inclined to welcome this tendency towards a  degree of proliferation as evidence of a deep desire  among men to know each other better, and to esteem   XXIV  one another more, both knowledge and esteem being  essential to peace.
10.4 I am well aware that this increase in the  number of non-governmental organizations, and the  diversity of their a‘ms, create problems. What can  be done to arrange for vo-operation among them and  to facilitate their collaboration with the United  Nations and the Specialized Agencies? It is not  possible to answer these questions here, but I should  like to emphasize that, while, in some cases, re-  groupings are possible and desirable, in others they  would be inopportune and run counter to the objects  sought, Many organizations, because of their  origins, aims and memhership, have a unique and  irreplaceable contribution to make; any attempt at  overall federation might deprive us of what is the  distinctive value of their contribution,
10.5 My second point concerns the geographical  coverage of non-governmental organizations. The  report 1 mentioned a moment ago and the working  papers prepared for the General Conference are  extremely encouraging with respect to the results  achieved by non-governmental organizations In their  efforts to extents their geographical coverage, I will  spare you figures with which you are already familiar.
10.6 It is true that the overwhelming majority of  these non-governmental organizations, were founded  in Evrope and in North America, where they still  have their headquarters; that is en historical fact,  and we must not allow It to give us a complex, Great  efforts have already been made - and still more will  be done in thie future - to enable all the peoples of the  world to play their full part in the common task. In  this matter, the non-governmental organizations rely  enormously on the understanding, sympathy and  support of all Unestu‘s Member States, Ir many  cases, these States can do much to help in the estab-  lishment of new ocal and national branches of non-  governmental organizations, as well as in the imple-  mentation of certain practical projects that non-  governmental organizations would like to undertake,  By granting material facilities, they can alsopromote  the organization of internaticnal meetings on their  territory. In this context, however, I should like to  point out, in passing that not all meetings are suitable.  The organization of a more or }<ss purely administra-  tive international meeting in a country in process of  development may occasion more diseppointment than  enthusiasm on the score of the need for the work of  non- -governmental organizations.
10.7 But it seems to me that to take geographical  co veruge as the sole criterion is liable to present the  problem in a rather false light, - The establishment  of new national branches, participation by all the  peoples of the world in meetings and in various other  activities, the presence of non-Europeans in the  different governing bodies, are all highly desirable  and, in these respects, our non-governmenial organi-  zations are becoming more and more international ;  Lut, in my view, what is essential is that everyone  should become fully alive to the universal implications  of all that now exists. From this point of view, gco-  graphical coverage means also more open-minded-  ness, more open-heartedness, à genuine solicitude  _ for all our brothers and their problems, a common  aspiration after a more human and more charitable  world. As for Unesco, so for the non-governmental.  x
384  PLENARY MEETINGS  organizations, it is useless to go on increasing the  number of bodies and activities unless at the same  time, al least as great an effort is made to give  this expanding world that "accession of soul" - to  use Berggon's term - which it needs.
10.8 Thidly, there ls ‘the rôle of non-governmental  organizations in the implémentation of Unesco's pro-  gramme. The necessary distinction which has had to  be made between the intergovernmental and the non-  governm :ntal sector may sometimes give the im-  pression that the two entities are completely distinct  and could do without one another. That is not my  view. If Unesco were to be suddendly deprived of  the co-operation of non-governmental organizations,  the efficacy of its action might be seriously reduced.  Likewise, a large number of our non-governmental  organizations would encounter serious difficulties  if the supportof governments and intergovernmental  organizations were withdrawn from them,
10.9 I should like to say again how much we  appreciate the advice and suggestions, and often the  financial help we receive from governmental and  intergovernmental organizations; but this will never  induce us to sacrifice our independence and autonomy  in they slightest degree. If non-governmental organi-  zations ever become semi-governmental or sémi-  intergovernmental, thelr specific rôle and the real value  of their contribution might be seriously jeopardized.
10.10 When we consider the results secured by  Unesco during these early but fruitful years of its  life, il is clear, I think, that very few of its aims  could hav béen achieved without the understanding,  sympathy and support of the peoples constituting the  United Nations. I know, moreover, that one of the  fundamental concerns of those in charge of Unesco  is precisely to give the Organization's manifold  undertakings ever deeper roots amo. g the masses  whom they are intended to benefit and to bring home  to the man in the street that international action is  not a luxury or some unnecessary amenity of modern  life like the cinerca and the television, but an urgent  need imposed by history itself, .:
10,11 Far be it from me to say that the non-govern-  mental organizations alone represent the whole of the  private sector - a term which I prefer to non-govern-  mental sector. However many ngâ- -governmental  organizations there be, and whstévar the theoretical  or actual number of their me*ibers, we must recog-  nize that our own sphere of influence is still restricted  toa relatively small number of people.
16.12" Several of our national branches, facing many,  far-reaching problems, find it difficult to undertake  what they regard as supp), létäsatany activities. We  shall encounter this diffi Eviiy as long as we are unable  to solve the problem to {hich 1 have just referred, as  long as we, have not succeeded in making people under-  stand that they cannot hold aloof from Unésco's pro-  jects and activities.
10,13 It is none the less true that, by thair enthu-  siagm and reliability, their éxperierice and their  means of influencing the public, the non-governmental  organizations play an important part. I would men-  tion in passing that non-governmental organizations  have often taken the initiative before Unesco in the  field with which the present discussion is concerned.  Although, during the last few years, the problem of  the participation of non-governmental organizations   PLENARY  (it would perhaps be more accurate to say the parti-  cipation of the international secret(riats of non-govern-  mental organizations) in the preparation of Unesco's  programme has to a large extent heen solved, that of  the necessary collaboration at the local and national  levels, with respect to both the preparation and the  implementation of the programme, still awaits solu-  tion,
10.14 1therefore venture to appeal again to all the  Unesco National Commiasions to avail themselves,  on every possible occazion of the co-operation  offered to them by the non-governmental organiza-  tions... ,
10.15 Allow me to make onc: last remark: it would  be wrong of me to conceal the dismay felt by the non-  governmental organizations at the increasing intrusion  of politics into Unesco debates, just at the time when  the world is calling out for a supra-national order to  secure the transfer of wealth of every kind to mankind  above and across frontiers, The inéreased speed at  which the human race is growing makes {{ necessary  to use, for the bénefit of all men, the still unexploited  material wealth of the world. : The fight against star-  vation, poverty and igihoranceé must be conducted  jointly, ao that the peoples may be rescued from  distress without falling at the same time beneath the  domination of private interests. The full develop-  ment of cultures and languages within the context of  a common civilization, and freedom of work and  movement for all men, are typlcal of the aims which  must be pursued in the world today. |
10.16 International work therefore has nothing  speculative or purely ideal about it; it ia not a  matter which can be settled simply by invoking  theoretical prinéiples, such as the unity of human  kind, or fine ideas and higi~sounding words; it is,  first and foremost a practical and moral undertaking,
10.17 The practical aim of this action is the welfare  of the world, i.e. the welfare of thé human community  as a whole, the temporal well-being of mankind, It  is thus the greatest moral task conceivable at the  human level, calling for the greatést detachment and  readiness to sacrifice private interes\s; it is none  the less a human task, a task within man's scope.
10.18 So long as Unesco remains faithful to this  ideal and remains open to all international non-govern-  mental organizations wishing to share in carrying out  this joint task, it can count on our full co-operation.
11. The PRESIDENT (Translationfromthe French):
1 call upon Mr. Giuseppe Vedovato, delegate of  Italy and Vice-President of the Forelgn Affairs Com-  mittee of the Italian Parliament.
12.1 Mr, VEDOVATO (Italy) (Translation from the  French): -  Mr.‘ President, ladies and gentlemen, in 1949 1  had the privilege of taking part in a similar debâte  which deait with a very general subject closely bound  up with the present one in several respects. When I  look back and refer, in the proceedings of the fourth  session of the General Conference, to what was said  éleven years ago by various speakers and by myself,  I am obliged to admit that a very large number, if  not all, of the problems then raised, today constitute  a firmly established par! of Unesco's programme.  This only goes to show how certain debates can prove
385  MEETINGS XXIV  to have concrete results, providing they are kept  upon a high spiritual level, even though this may  make them look unduly abstract, :
12,2 That is why ! must congratulate the Director-  General and the Executive Board on having once  again given us the opportunity for a free exchange  of views < free in eo much as it is inspired by the  Hberty which is part and parcel of any spiritual act,  and free because relieved of budgetary and adminis -  trative restraints,
12,3 1 propose first of all to examine the real  reasons which lead representatives of culture to  engage In conversations among themselves and  cause States to take an increasing interest in them.  We shall see how far this is justified and how In  turn it justifies our hopes and in what direction we  should turn our efforts, We may be able to draw a  few practical conclusions of use to Unesco and to  Member States. .
12,4 We certainly live at a time when international  relations - and partictiarly cultural relations - are  still in an experimental stage, If this is true, asl  believe it 18. we must continue to devote ourselves  to the study of phenomena; our action will still be  dominated for a time by empiricism, and we should  be extremely cautious in the use of reason in our  natural search for a theory,
12,6 First of all we have to admit that exchanges  between men of culture are as old as culture itself;  Mr, Reinink, in a speech as remarkable for its '  doctrine as for its common sense, brought out this  fact. Cultural exchanges go back to a period when  the means of communication were practically non-  existent compared with those of today and could not  therefore be held responsible for the phenonienor.,  I shall not weary you with examples, for anyone can  choose them at his fancy; one only has to think of  the large-scale artistic and literary influences which  have been félt between continents throughout history.  The historic and social fact preceded the search for its  justification by a long time « in somewhat the same  way as the penal code was formed and put into force  well before any thought was given to Justification of  the rigit to punish,
12,6 The fact then is primary, and the reason for  this resides in the very nature of the creative mind,  which is free and can only be free; ideas gain  strength, perfect themselves and live or die by  mutual contacts, by confrontation and perpetual  exchange, Cultural exchanges are vital to ideas ;  here then is a first justification - and how powerful  in its primacy - of a phenomenon which by ite anti-  quity is an impérative of intellectual life,
12,7 But here too, and above all, 1j an indication  of two factors which I. will: only emphasize at this  stage, though I shall return to thera later : freedom  which must guarantee that ideas meet one another,  and reciprocity which te iniplicit In such meeting and  justifies the very term exchange.
12,8 Although cultural relations in anclent times  attained sn astonishing range of distance, they often re-  tained à personal character and, since frontiers were  - less rigid than they are today they could not be described  as international inthe modern sense of the word, On the  other hand, those who took part in such exchanges suc-  ceeded informing among themselves a sort of "com-  munity of scholars" which transcended national values.   XXIV PLENAR
12.9 It was the creation of modern States on a  national basis and the intensification of nationalism  which erected barriers in the cullural world, It was  at the same period that cultural relations began to  assume thelr present form and that States began to  take an interest in them and make them either a  subject for concern or an instrument of policy, This  attitude appears to be fully justified in the light of  what I have just sald, providing it fosters culture by  reacting against nationalist isolationiem ; but It also  arouses increasing and no less justified distrust, if  it has the propagandist aim of spreading a rigid  doctrine divorced from liberty and reclprocity, as  H.E. Mr, Raadi rightly pointed out in his very fine  speech, :
12,10 Cultural relations, then, in their modern  form are at an even earlier stage than international  relations in general, but although this prevents us  from theorizing about them one mus\ at least admit  as a working hypothesis that they are aimed at im-  proving mutual knowledge which should lead to mutual  understanding. This assumption appears to me to  answer the misgivings expressed by Mr. Malalasekera,  Head of the Ceylon delegation,
12.11 From this we may conclude that the consi-  derable efforts made throughout the world on behalf  of cultural exchanges, and the material resources  used for the purpose are indeed deyoted to a work of  peace, in the sense of the declared aims of Unesco,
12,12 We are certainly interested in everything  which can foster science and culture as such, but  how great is the politicel value, in the highest sense,  attaching to the certainty of contributing to the  brotherhood of peoples, each respecting the spiritual  values of the other. That more than anything else  justifies and demands the intervention of the State  and interests us as politicians,
12,13 1 algo see a third justification, no less rich  in consequences, for cultural exchanges as a means  of preventing war, It has been said that the first  world war demonstrated the Indivisibility of peace and  of world security : no State could feel safe if there  was a war anywhere in the world. The Second World  War was fought with a bellef in the indivisibility of  freedom ; we have no right to feel truly free in a  world where slavery of an ancient or modern kind  still exists. I shall nat devote time to bewaillng the  fact that we are still a long way from these objectives  which, it {s probable, no war will be able to achieve.
1 will only say that there is now a growing conviction  that progresa is indivisible and that it rests with us  to see that this belief does not lead to a war un-  paralleled in its destructiveness and futility. When  we think of the indivisibility of progress, we think  firet of economic and social progress, for these are  ite more striking aspects. But economic and social  progress could not exist without the educational and  cultural progress which alone can ensure for it the  necessary success and stability.
12.14 In my opinion, these few observations,  which may well appear too general or abstract, have  certain very definite and positive consequences.
12.15 First of all, we can state as a principle that  international exchanges, to be valid, must be carried  out in the name of liberty and reciprocity. If these .  two qualities are missing, the result will be pro-  paganda, which seeks to impose from without an  “  Y
386  MEETINGS  indisputable and irrevocable doctrine. That is a sterile  attitude : cultural exchanges are only a means \o  cultural understanding. And if there js no reciprocity  of interest, there is no cultural understanding ; all  that remains are foolish manifestations of national  exhibitionism and cultural arrogance.
12,16 We cannot draw up hard-and-fast arithmetical  balance sheets of cultural exchanges, as we can with  economic exchanges, as was well pointed out by  Mr, Hampate Ba, delegate of Mali. Reciprocity is  an attitude of mind which, even when it gives some-  thing away, is always prepared to reviae its opinions,  enrich them by new experience and communicate in  the very act of giving.
12.17 The present sesaion of the General Confer-  ence is marked by the presence of States which have  only recently been constituted, 1 have myself had ex-  perience and personal knowledge of these States. 1  know how much they distrust certain forms of culturat  relations in which they see the manifestations of anew  fmperialism, What I have just sald should interest  them directly, for it proves how right they are to be  on their guard and yet how wrong they may be if they  refuse all exchanges. The criteria of freedom and  reciprocity should enable truthtobe distinguished from  falsehood in cultural relations.
12.18 While avolding the new imperialism, the young  States ought also carefully to avoid yielding to an  exaggerated nationalism by systematically and a  priori repudiating the recent past and fresh cultural  exchanges. ! know how difficult that is (my own coun-  try has behind it only 100 years of political independ-  ence), but we should call hére upon reason rather  than emotion. As far back as 1825 oné of my com-  patriots, Alessandro Poerio, as he was about to  embark upon a cultural voyage, said that "while my  head is cosmopolitan, my heart remains national",
12,19 If all cultural exchanges enrich, to reject  them out of hand 1s to impoverish oneself; it is not  only bad business, but a wrongful act. In the same  way, in combating racialism, we should not fall into the  abominable excesses of racialism, andin order to avoid  imperialism, it would be unreasonable to adopt an equally  mistaken attitude by withdrawing into proud isolation.
12,20 There has recently been an unexpected  development of cultural exchanges between States in  Western Europe at a time when any suspicion of  aggressive design would be manifestly absurd; we,  for our part, hope that these exchanges may, ff  possible, be further intensified, We see in them  the clearest proof of the results that may ensue  from mutual knowledge, and of the existence and  happy outcome of disinterested action undertaken  for the sole purpose of mutual understanding,
12.21 A well-founded distrust of {totalitarian  doctrines and one-way cultural relations brings us  to consider Uneaco's rôle in the establishment of  multilateral relations. Bilateral relations, it is  true, will be irreplaceable, at leasy for a long time,  and will continue to cffer the best, the cheapest and  most sensible solution wherever cultural affinities  and long established relations have set up a strong  current of exchange. Our African brothers already  percelye - and will perhaps see better in the future -  the advantages of not rejecting the recent past en  bloc, but of using the linguistic and cultural machinery  bequeathed to them by old European civilizations,   PLENARY  whose particular genius will certainly be of use tothem,
12.22 It is possible, however, to foresee that  Unesco will have an increasing part to play not so  much in attempting to achieve a co-ordination which  will be difficult, costly and probably not so necessary  as is thought, between bilateral and multilateral ex-  changes, but rather in promoting regional activities,  and, even more, in acting as a clearing house and  furnishing the necessary political guarantees in order  to overcome unjustified mistrust, Many States will  have to recognize in future the importance of pro-  ferring inthe form of multilateral co-operation,  services and resources which are at present allocated  to bilateral assistance,
12,23 [Liberty is the best soil for fertile ideas, the  one in which they can live and grow, If that is true,  as I fully believe and as is proved by this brief  summary of cultural exchanges, both Member States  and Unesco are assigned a first-priority task - that  of removing all obstacles to the free flow of Informa-  tion and ideas. I am delighted that Professor Eek,  of the Swedish delegation, has given his authority to  an essential contribution in this field.
12,24 If we have faith in our ideas, we must not  fear to submit them to the frecet and closest com-  parison with those of others - indeed we should wel-  come such comparison in the hope of seeing them  confirmed and improved. When ideas are perpetually  in competition, the only ones to suffer final defeat  are those which are afraid to enter the lists, Even if  artificial barriers may allow wrong ideas to survive  for a while, enforced isolation condemns any  idea to decay and ultimately to perish from atrophy.  That is the just punishment - slow, perhaps, but sure  and almost automatic - for committing the sin against  the spirii which consists in arrogant adherence to an  intangible doctrine which usually stigmatizes the  one-way action of fanatical propaganda,
12.25 It is our duty to employ all our moral re-  sources to reduce as far as possible, even to the  point of total elimination, those areas in which such  denial of freedom persists. Only thus can we be  sure of always and everywhere addressing our-  selves to those who are able to communicate with us  in freedom and reciprocity, the only condition, as  we have seen, under which true cultural exchanges  can take place.
12,26 1 sald just now that the consciousness of the  indivisibility of progress is continually increasing;  this implies the need for powerful and co-ordina-  ted effort at international level to ensure that peoples  who, for historical and geographical reasons, have  only recently had access to technology, shall parti-  cipate in that progress. This raises the difficult  problem of technical assistance, in its widest sense,  and of its limitations and methods. I shall not discuss  these problems, for which an entire debate suchas this  one would not be long enough,
12,27 1 will only point out that the use of methods  which have now become traditional, such as fellow-  ships and expert missions soon comes up against  serious difficulties. Technical assistance is limited  by the human factor; attempts must be made to ex-  tend it in another direction, by making the activities  of the available experts more effective. I think that  Unesco, by its nature, has a definite job to do in this  field, not only for itself but also for the United Nations
387  MEETINGS XX1v  and the Speclalized Agencies as a whole, connected  with the analysis of problems confronting all experts  in their relations with the authorities and for the  training of local experts in the use of new and more  effective methods of teaching, such as audio-visual  aids, and finally as regards training for specific  tasks of assistance,’
12,28 Fellowships in any case, have disadvantages  that are difficult to avoid if, instead of being used for  after-training, they have to be used for full-course  university courses. I have seen examples of these  disadvantages, especially in Africa. The uprooting  which occurs can produce results favourable neither  to the country which sends, nor to the country which  receives the student, The presence of university  students in their own country, 1s moreover a «ormal-  izing factor which can raise the cultural level of  recently formed States,
12,29 Although such difficulties should not be  exaggerated,they mustbetaken into account inorder  to avoid disappointments, setbacks and wasted effort,  They prove in fact that, in this field, the real aim  can only be the setting up of a complete system of  education on the spot, not one imposed from without  but one adapted to the requirements and character-  istics of the country concerned, The widely varying  experience acquired, especially in Europe, can pro-  vide useful suggestions. But it would be dangerous  and wrong to create illusions about the time needed  for such an undertaking and to imagine that it is  possible to take short cuts,
12,30 Only a moral and spiritual view of life, of  relations between States, communities and individuals,  and an understanding which rises ahove material interests,  will enable this long-term joint task to be put in hand  with joy and confidence. Only thus, by arousing the  consclence of both parties, givers or receivers, will  it be possible to disregard the sorry balance of ad-  vantages conferred or received, Only thus will it be  possible to understand that the human contact estab-  lished 18 a source of mutual enrichment where re-  ciprocity is automatic and complete.
12,31 This must be brought about. History is  made, not so much by spectacular undertakings as  by simple everyday acts of faith, goodwill and  perseverance. 1 shall therefore conclude by saying  that this is possible, especially as cullure appears  more and more to work, in international relations,  the miracles which charity most certainly achieves  in individual relations.
13. The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe French):  I call upon Mr, Okamoto, delegate of Japan.
14,1 Mr. OKAMOTO (Japan) : ‘  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, on behsèf  of the Japanese delegation I should like to say how  happy we are to have been among those who welcomed  as fellow Members the very many States which have  recently achieved independence, These new adhesions  demonstrate the universal recognition now being given  to the importance of the work undertaken by Unesco  and the growth of its prestige with each succeeding  year,
14.2 We are sure you will want to rejoice with us  at these gratifying and encouraging developments.  However, we belleve it is also high time that wc   XXIV  should give serious thought to the following question:  "How best can all the Member States make useful  contributions to the heritage of mankind, on the basis  of the social and cultural heritage of their respective  States?" .
14.3 The independence of a nation is not only a  cause for rejoicing by the people concerned, it also  calls for congratulations from other nations, for  national independence provides the genuine basis for  international co-operation in promoting human welfare  and world harmony,
14.4 We believe, however, that the independence of  a State is not a goal in itself, but rather the starting  point in the making of a natlon, Upon achievement of  independence, new policies suited to the character of  the State must be worked out through its own efforts.  One of the essential policies will be that dealing with  education : it will become a matter of urgency to  develop school education; to promote social educa-  tion and to encourage the rise of national leaders.  It is for this reason that we believe special attention  should be paid to the question of language.
14.5 In our opinion, there are two points to be  considered with regard to language which may have  an important bearing on the progress of developing  nations in general, One is the use of languages of  wide communication and the other is the preservation  and improvement of nat{onal or vernacular languages,  If the intellectual level of a nation in education,  science, culture, administration and economy is to  be ralsed to the world level, it is indispensable for  the people of that nation to learn and to use languages  of widè communication.
14,6 We do not believe that the use of such lan-  guages can be branded ar a form of cultural colonial-  ism. On the other hand, the national or vernacular  language is a cultural and social heritage of the people  who use it, and it is thus best suited for the promotion  of popular education, The necessity will naturally  arise for improving the language so that it may  digest the science and culture of other countries, In  this particular respect, Japan has had a fruitful ex-  perience which may be of interest and can perhaps  serve as an example to developing nations, It is  within the span of the last hundred years that Japan  has emerged from the status of an isolated and un-  industrialized nation, While preserving and develop-  ing her own culture and moral traditions, she has  succeeded in forging her way to her present position  among the modern States of the world, This has  called, we assure you, for a long struggle and great  efforts, for it meant absorbing through foreign lan-  guages certain aspects of the advanced cultures of  the West needed by Japan, while not neglecting  simultaneous efforts for the constant development  of every branch of education through the use of the  Japanese language, . ‘
14,7 We also wish to raise on this occasion the  important question of the international exchange of  persons. Developing countries are usually faced  with the urgent necessity of training and developing  able leaders in as large numbers as possible in order  to promote social and economic development. This  requires sending as many promising young men as  possible to advanced countries for the study of science,  culture and other aspects of modern civilization, At  the same time, advanced States can extend a helping  PLENARY
388  MEETINGS  hand to those young nations in need of technical  assistance by sending experte in various fields to  teach modern methods, as desired by those on the  spot.
14.8 We believe that Unesco can play a significant  rôle in facilitating this exchange of persons, at an  international level, so as to meet the needs of the  developing countries and at the same time draw on  the rich human resources available among the ad-  vanced nations,
14.9 We have submitted these observations In the  light of the experience of our own country, which,  as I have said before, we believe could serve as an  interesting example, particularly in the building up  of an industrial nation.
14,10 This session of the General Conference has  aptly been called "an African Conference". Never-  theless, the strong emphasis we are giving to  Unesco's African programmes should not prejudice  the realization of the successful programmes in  other parts of the world, As an Asian delegation,  we believe that we are justified in reminding all of  you that within the whole context of Unesco's pro-  grammes Asien programmes should receive due  attention.
14,11 I should like to conclude by voicing our  whole-hearted appreciation of the excellent work done  by Unesco in various fields and our full confidence  in its future development, We can assure you that  the people of our country consider Unesco today as  one of the essential instruments for the building of  a firin basis for the peace of the world, They are  convinced that its work must be pursued in the spirit  of the Constitution, so that Unesco may serve as a  lighthouse to humanity in its quest for lasting peace  and progress,
15, The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe French):  I call upon Mr. Litvin, delegate of the Ukrainian  Soviet Socialist Republic.
16.1 Mr, LITVIN (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, the Ukrainian  delegation attaches great importance to the develop-  ment of international relations and exchanges in educa-  tion, science and culture, The discussion on this  question at the Conference confirms the immediacy  of the problem of developing international cultural  relations, and any denial or artificial restriction of  this development would be evidence, indeed, of gross  unawareness of current events.
16.2 The range of international cultural ties has  steadily widened during recent years, They are  developing along many different lines, multilateral  and bilateral alike. Culturalrelations between nations  take various forms - exchanges of dramatic and  musical companies, all-round co-operation between  scientists in different countries, organization of film  festivals, creative meetings between writers, sports  contests, the exchange of students and visits of  hundreds of thousands of tourists to foreign lands,  and these and many other forms of international  cultural contacts are becoming a regular feature of  international life.
16.3 Unesco, it should be said, has latterly taken  what may be described as the first steps in organizing   PLENARY  the work of its various departments for the extension  of cultural exchanges, In 1958, for example, the  National Commission of the Ukrainian Republic, with  the co-operation of Unesco, organized an interna-  tional work camp near Kharkov in which young people  from a number of Unesco's Member States - France,  Belgium, India and others - took part. Similar youth  camps were organized this summer in the Crimea and  at Vinnitsa, . .
16.4 In 1960, representatives of the Ukrainian SSR  took part in a number of international and regional  conferences, meetings and seminars under Unesco's  auspices, including the Paris meeting of govern-  mental experts to discuss the preparation of a re-  commendation and convention on discrimination in  education, the International conference on the use of  radio-isotopes in the physical sciences and industry,  the World Conference on Adult Education held in  Montreal, seminars on "The rôle of club-type institu-  tions in adult education" (Czechoslovakia) and "The  access of workers to education and culture" (Rumania),  the Conference on the International exchange of public-  ations in Europe (Hungary), and others. .
16.5 In 1959-1960, under Unesco's Participation  programme, three study grants of from three to six  months' duration were allocated to the Ukrainian  National Commission (for work on the teaching and  dissemination of science, the rôle of television in  education, and advanced training for journalism).
16,6 During the same period, four delegations  representing Ukrainian trade unions went on Inter-  esting study tours In France, the Netherlands,  Belgium and the Federal Republic of Germany under  the workers! study tour programme, These gave  our workers the opportunity of meeting workers in  those four Western European countries, getting to  know the living and working conditions there, and  establishing useful direct contacts with their trade  unionists.
16.7 And there are other useful projects carried  out by the Ukrainian National Commission with  Unesco's co-operation which could be mentioned.  However, the extensive and wide-ranging contacts  which are being developed with a whole host of coun-  tries by the National Commission and other govern-  mental and public organizations of the Ukrainian SSR  are in many cases established quite apart from  Unesco.
16,8 In recent years, cultural relations between  the Ukrainian SSR and other States, and between  Ukrainian and other scientific, literary, educational,  cultural and similar public organizations, have ;  steadily increased in scope. They are being developed  through many different channels and assume the most  varied forms. Our Government makes a great point  of strengthening and developing cultural relations with  all other countries in every possible way, on a basis  of equal rights and mutual advantage. One evidence  of this is the number of visiting foreign delegations,  which increases year by year. In 1959, the number  of delegations, groups of specialists and companies  of artists visiting the Ukraine totalled one thousand,  and they came from 68 different countries.
16.9 Particularly interesting and useful are the  contacts maintained by Ukrainian scientists with their  foreign colleagues. In 1959 alone, for example, 600  scientists from other countries visited our.Republic
389  MEETINGS XXIV  at the invitation of the Academy of Sciences of the  Ukrainian SSR, while numbers of Ukrainian scientists  went abroad on scientific missions, Meanwhile, the  Academy, with the collaboration of the National Com-  mission, organized such important measures for the  promotion of international relations in the field of  science as the XIVth All-Union Astronomical Con-  ference and the IVth Congress of the Carpathian  and Balkan Geological Association, both of which  were held in the Ukraine and were attended by large  numbers of scientists from other countries,
16,10 The Academy of Agriculture and the Academy  of Building Construction and Architecture of the  Ukrainian SSR also have wide scientific contacts,  And not only our academies but alao our universities,  institutes and other educational establishments give  active support to international relations, The nu-  merous visits made by Ukrainian and foreign  scientists to each other's countries have contributed  towards the establishment of regular working con-  tacts in many fields of scientific research, Individual  scientific concepts and ideas have in many cases been  the subjoct of joint study, and this has been of con-  siderable assistance in the development of certain  branches of knowledge.
16.11 An important part in strengthening the ties  of friendship between the Ukraine and other countries  is played by exchanges of artists, arranged with the  National Commission's co-operation. More than 20  large groups of foreign artists and musicians and  about 1,500 persons active in the fields of culture  and art in other countries visited the Ukraine in
16.12 The Polish, Rumanian, Bulgarian, Hungarian  and Albanian Culture Days celebrated in the Ukraine  in recent years are a significant contribution towards  the further development of international cultural co-  operation, In the same way, Ukrainian Culture Days  have been organized in Poland, Rumania, Bulgaria,  Hungary, Albania, Mongolla and Czechoslovakia.  To mark these Days of culture of these countries  joined in friendship, exhibitions of various kinds are  presented, films festivals organized, performances  given by groups of artists, and delegations of scientific  and cultural workers exchanged. .
16.13 Very successful have been the performances  by individual Ukrainian artists and groups of artists  who have visited other countries, including the United  Kingdom, France, Austria, Belgium, the German  Democratic Republic and the Federal Republic of  Germany, Poland, and Bulgaria. About one thousand  representatives of Ukrainian cultural and artistic  life have visited other countries during the past two  years. .
16.14 Festivals of foreign films are a frequent  occurrence in our country - more than 30 of them  including festivals of Chinese, Czechoslovak,  Bulgarian, Italian, English, French, Indian, Egyptian,  Finnish, Belgian, Austrian, Yugoslav and Mexican  films, have been held during the past few years alone,
16.15 One interesting form of international exchan-  ge is the systematic organization of exhibitions of  graphic and applied arts. With the assistance of the  National Commission, regular contact has been  established, for example, between the Kiev Historical  Museum and the Nanking Museum, and between  archaeological museums at Kherson and Plovdiv.   XXIV  The Kiev Museum of Western and Eastern Art co-  operates actively with the Venetian Institute of Art  History und the National Gallery in London, Other  major forms of international contact, auch as  literary exchanges and the pairing of towns, are  also widely practised,
16.13 But whatever forin these contacts may take,  the most important point fs to inform them with a  spirit of practical co-operation and friendly assist-  ance on the basis of peaceful coexistence, leading  to a common urge for peace, friendship and pros-  perity.
16,17 {it is important that the Unesco Secretariat  should study the forms and content of international  relations and exchanges in science, culture and  education, and that the focus of attention in such  exchanges should be the basic problems which con-  cern all countries and all peoples, Yet time and  money are often spent, on costly studies of some  such problem as "The threatening extinction of bird  life", and the like, It is haru on the birds, of course,  but in many capitalist countries people are dying of  hunger, cold and disease, or are living in primitive  conditions. Let us tackle these problems first, and  through our own work help to translate Unesco's  principles into practice and give body to the glorious  idea of peaceful coexistence,
16.18 With the break-up of the colonial system  and the rise of the new independent States of Asia  and Africa, we are passing, Mr. President, through  a new stage in the history of world civilization and  the development of cultural contacts between peoples,
16.19 The General Conference of Unesco has been  working for almost a rnonth and it is already possible  to make certain preliminary deductions about the  a.titudes of delegations towards many problems,  {neluding those of cultural contacts, colonialism and
80 on, What deductions can we make from the  speeches of the delegates of the colonialist countries ?  If we brush aside the smoke-acreen of words, we  can clearly descry the desire of the representatives  of these countries to distort the concept of colonialism  and divest the term of its social and economic essence.
16.20 The Ingenuous approach is oftén adopted to  that end; and the concept of colonialism interpreted  as an "interaction of cultures", I recall, for instance,  the assertion by the American sociologist Thomas  Adam, in his work "Modern Colgnlalism', that  colonialism is simply the "historical extension of  Western culture intoless highly developed territories";  and he goes on to say that "colonialism is contact  between cultures... an experiment in intercultural  relations",and so on, A similar interpretation of  colonialism is to be found in the three-volume  ‘Sociologie coloniale" by a French professor at  the "Ecole Coloniale", R, Maunier, in which coloni-  zation is defined as "a means of communication be-  tween two social entities, bringing about contact  between two civilizations",
16.21 This sort of effort to embellish colonialism  stems from the basic theses of bourgeois sociology,  which in general strips social phenomena of their  qualitative nature and defines them without reference  to their connexion with actual social and economic  conditions, The elucidation of the problems of  colonialism from the standpoint of the "interaction  of cultures" is a direct consequence of the theory of  PLENARY
390  MEETINGS  what is called "cultural adaptation" or acculturation,
16,22 An English sociologist who supports this  theory, Professor Little of Edinburgh University,  claims that the basic problem of Africa today is to  adapt Africans to "Western ideas and methods", He  considers that, in the main, the important aspect of  relations between Africans and Europeans is the  cultural aspect,
16.23 Accordingly, this professor, whose views  are shared by other writers in various Unesco  publications and many of the delegates from the  Western countries who have spoken at the plenary  meetings and the meetings of the Programme Com-  mission, completely ignore such forms of "contact"  between Western Europe and Africa, and between the  United States of America and Africa, as we are now  witnessing, for example, in the Congo, Kenya and  other parts of the African continent,
16.24 The representatives of a number of Western  countries not only substitute the concept of the "inter-  action of cultures" for that of colonialism but-  present this interaction in a light favourable to the  colonialists , in the light of young countries’ "need"  for guidance from the West, or, to speak more  accurately, of their "need" to be kept in political,  economic and {deological subjection to the im-  perialist powers, headed by the United States of  America,
16.25 There are other ways In which the concept  of colonialism may be distorted, apart from repre-  senting it as the "interaction of cultures and civiliza-  tions", At the Conference held at Taormina in the  spring cf this ycar, il was interesting to hear the com-  ments made by the National Commission of France on  the programme of technical co-operation, Along with  some valuable comments, which are no less useful  today, the French National Commission's "Observa-  tions! contain certain debatable propositions that our  delegation disagreed with then and disagrees with now  - for some of these same propositions have again  made their appearance ~ admittedly in velied form-  in the speeches of a number of the delegates of the  Western countries in the present discussion, In  particular, while duly recognizing Europe's rôle  and significance, and its place in world society, we  cannot agree with tue "Eurocentric" conception which  permeates some of the ideas expressed in the  "Observations",
16.26 Our basic attitude on this question is that  there are no great and }mall cultures, but that the  national cultures of all the peoples of the wor!d  together constitute the culture ôf all mankind. To  our great regret, however, this principle, which is  fundamental to our Organization's activities, is being  violated. How can we talk about mutual exchange  between the cultures of different peoples when Unesco  excludes the culture of the great Chinese people and  that of a considerable’section of the German people in-  cluded in the German Democratic Republic, and of  other peoples? The absence of these and other  peoples from our Organization seriously humpers  the process of neutral cultural enrichment, Ve  feel, and we are profoundly confident, that the time  will come when this serious defect will be removed  and Unesco will transform itself into a truly universal  international organization.
16.27 If Unesco's machinery were concentrated on   PLENARY  the objective implementation of the Organization's  basic principles and aims, many problems could be  solved on a larger scale, with better contacte and a  keen sense of purposefulness, and the wealth of ex-  perience possessed by many countries could be widely  and generally popularized and extensively used in the  practical activities undertaken both by Unesco and by  the National Commissions,
16.28 The Ukrainian delegation accordingly con-  siders that the Unesco administration should re-  organize its style of work, taking as the basis of  its activities the main principles set forth in the  Unesco Constitution and the decisions taken by the  General Conference for the development of co-opera-  tion, mutual understanding and peaceful coexistence  between countries with different social and economic  systems, Only if this be done can Unesco fully  carry out the tasks entrusted to it by the world  community,
17. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  We have tried to keep this debate as free ns  possible from the restrictions imposed by the Rules,  but time also imposes its obligations. I therefore  first of all declare the list of speakers closed, as  in addition to the list contained in today's issue of  the "Conference Journal", the delegates of thren  countries - Guinea, Cuba and Lebanon - applied  yesterday to take part in the debate. The time  problem will certainly force us to prolong the debate  for a further hour or an hour and a half during a  plenary meeting which could be held on Monday  morning, when we can listen to the four or five  speakers who were unable fo speak today and try to  draw a few general conclusions from this very  interesting discussion. The meeting is closed.  The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m,