15 November 1960, at 10,45 a.m,  President: Mr. Jean BERTHOIN (France)  CONTENTS  Address by H,E. Dr. S. Radhakrishnan (India) . . 65 LI]  Amendment of Rules 25 (1), 30 (1), 34 (1) and 38 (1) of the  Rules of Procedure of the General Conference . .  Adoption of therevisedagenda « + + + + + + + + + 6 + 5  ADDRESS BY DR. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (INDIA), FORMER  PRESIDENT OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE
1.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the meeting open.  H.E. Dr, Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, delegate of India,  who, owing to his responsibilities as Vice-President  of the Republic, must shortly return to his ccuntry,  has expressed the wish to address the General Con-  ference this morning, I am certain that this gathering  is looking forward with pleasure to listening to some-  one who has tw:ce acted as President of the General  Conference with unparalleled prestige, distinction  and authority. I therefore call upon him to address  yon.
2,1 Dr. RADHAKRISHNAN (India):  Mr. President, fellow delegates and friends, as I  am leaving on Thursday and shall not have an oppor-  tunity of speaking on the Director-General's report,  it Is very kind of the President to have asked me to  say ‘a few words today.
2,2 I wish to speak on the way in which Unesco can  help the establishment of peace and cultural solidarity  in this world of mounting tension, increasing produc-  tion of nuclear weapons and an expanding arms race.  In Unesco, work is accomplished on educational pro-  jects, in scientific research, in technical assistance,  demonstrating the involvement of all nations in inter-  national commitments, It is therefore essential that  we should do all in our power to establish the basio  good feeling which {s absoluütely essential if any kind  of political decisions are to be reached. We talk  about disarmament, but nothing concrete is achleved  because we live in a divided and suspicious world,  People are afraid of encirclement on the one side,  of surprise attacks on the other, and so we break  confidences, we send intelligence planes, we try to  bribe people of other countries, All this arises from  the one fundamental lack of trust between the great -  nations of the world. Unless that trust is re-estab-  lished, unless it is possible for us to say that we can  talk to each other and establish some kind of concord,  the future of the world seems to be very bleak. Once
65  “of spiritual vision, of intuitive insight.  RN 66
67  Bernard Shaw, in addressing a conference in  Cambridge a few years before hls death, described to  the audience his vision of the future; an old clerio got  up and asked: " How do you propose to implement  your ideals?" With a bland smile, Shaw observed:  "Human selfishness, human selfishness", He meant  that all people are interested in survival, that they  have the instinct of self-preservation and therefore  they will all work together to establish some kind of  concord. Survival is bound up with solidarity, so  selfishness will help us to > establish this kind of  concord.
2.3 But unfortunately we > know there is no such thing  as a basic rationality of human nature. We may know  that a particular thing is to our interest, and yet we  are not prepared to follow the counsel, even of self-  preservation. The human mind works at different  planes: there is the plane of the unconscious instinct  and impulse, there is next the plane of rational  purpose and organization, highest of all is the plane  So long as  we are lost on the first two planes, the present moral  discourägement will continue as will the tendéncy to  feel that the world 18 coming to a chaotic condition.  All these things illustrate to us that human reason is  not ultimate, but that there is something higher than  human reason which we have to adopt. Both the  unconscious impulses and instincts and our rational  tendencies have to be governed by the enlightened  spirit; {f we do not have it the present conditions are  bound to continue for a longér time.
2.4 Our great leader, Mahatma Gandhi; said oncè;  "I cannot derive any pleasure from living in a world  which is not united". He meant that until the world  becomes one, until we are able to cut across divisions  of creed and of political and economic organization,  until we are able to establish what may be regarded  as the human community, there can be no real joy in  living. The East-West project which this Organiza-  tion has set afloat is one contribution towards this  great idea of establishing concord or solidarity among  men, We should do our best, in every possible way,  to reduce the causes of conflict, one of the major  sources of which is colonialism - people now working  in subjection who are all demanding equality and the   II PLENARY  overthrow of colonial rule. Nationalism ls a force  which 18 rampant today, A young nationalist of  Africa wrote thus; "In the name of African women  walking for miles to find mere sustenance for their  children, in the name of African urchins whom  hunger has forced to become habitual liars, in the  name of African soldiers drafted to fight in Horth  Africa ag shock troops in the attack on the life and  liberty of other men, we ask for an end of colonial  rule, for an end of subjection. Until colonial rule is  abolished ona major source of conflict in this world  will not disappear”,
2,5 True, a large ‘umber of States have emerged  into freedom and we welcome them all into this  asserably,. Every one of us is delighted that we have  a large number of African States as members of  Unesco. That in itself requires a change in the very  structure of the Secretariat, of the Executive Board,  etc., and also requires a change in your programme  and budget proposals, for it 18 no use allowing people  to become free if you do not assist them by all the  means at your disposal to make that freedom a  reality. There must be not merely political con-  sciousness of freedom, but also social consciousness  of the realization of freedom, both economically and  politically, Engineers, technicians, industrialists,  all these are necessary if the newly emancipated  countries are to realize their freedom in any  essential sense of the term, That 1s one of the great  tasks which Unesco has to face, for it is this Organi-  zation that can give them more facilities for education,  more technical assistance, etc. I do hope that in the  drafting of your programme and budget proposals this  fact will be taken into account.
2.6 More than that, so long as race discrimination  is written into the statute booka of countries, peace  will be precarious, it can never be a certainty,  Wounded souls are the greatest enemies of peace, and  the feelings of many peoples in Asia and Africa are  deeply involved in this problem of race discrimina-  tion. It is essential therefore that these discrimina-  tions should be abolished as soon as possible. If you  do not do so, we will be responsible for bringing  about major conflicts in this world. If constitutional  processes do not help us to solve these problems, -  violent upheavals will naturally result and we will be  responsible for these violent upheavals in the world.  Thus, all those who are interested in the well-being  of humanity, in the welfare of the peoples of the  world and in peace, must work and strive their  utmost to see that these discriminations are abolished  as speedily as possible,
2.1 We, as an Organization standing for education,  science and culture, must therefore try to suppress  our prejudices, Culture is no more than a perpetual  attempt to eliminate prejudice, to emancipate the  minds of men from all kinda of prepossessions,  Man must be an animal tamer, he must continue to  function as an animal tamer. We cannot work only  for our immediate future as long as we have the  larger goals at heart; we must rid the world of all  the obstacles to the establishment of peace.
2.8 It is now my pleasure to extend our welcome io  the new African States, We usk the Organization to  help these African States to achieve social and econo-  mic independence, Science and sccial conscience are  both at our disposal; science can help us to realize  S  MEETINGS
66  all our social goals, In other words , scientifio  discoveries and social conscience must work together.  In this Organization we have tried to expand educa-  tional facilities, we want to divert scientific pursuit  to creative ends, we wish to increase beauty in human  lives. It {s only when these dimensions of the human  spirit are properly established and fulfilled that we  may call ourselves really civilized human beings, I  do hope that this Organization will do its utmost to  promote these ends.
3.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I am sure that I am interpreting the wishes of  everyone at this Conference in thanking Dr.  Radhakrishnan for his uplifting address. May his  words and his thoughts be an ingpiration for our work  throughout this Conference.  AMENDMENT OF RULES 25 (1), 30 (1), 34 (1) AND 38 (1) OF THE  RULES OF PROCEDURE OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE
3,2 The agenda now provides for various proposals  to be submitted to us by the Chairman of the Executive  Board. In the first place, he will be submitting to the  General Conference a proposal of the Board to amend  Rules 25 (1), 30 (1), 34 (1) and 38 (1) of the Rules of  Procedure by raising the number of Vice-Presidents  of the General Conference from twelve to fifteen.  Afterwards, in conformity with Rule 13 (1), the  Chairman of the Board will submit for the approval  of the Conference the revised agenda, coples of which  have been distributed to all delegations. According  to its Rules, the General Conference must decide by  a simple majority both on the adoption of the revised  agenda and on that of the amendments to its Rules  proposed by the Executive Board.
3.3 I now call upon the Chairman of the Executive  Board.
4, Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom),  Chairman of the Executive Board;  Mr. President and fellow delegates, you will notice  on your agenda for this morning item 2 and item 3.  The first item ie related to the proposal that the  number of Vice-Presidents be increased and item  no. 3 to the adoption of the agenda. With your per-  mission, Mr, President, I would take no. 2 first, so  that it might be disposed of before the adoption of the  agenda is dealt with. The Executive Board decided  at its 57th session, in'view of the increase in the  number of Member States and of the need of securing  a balanced geographical distribution of offices, to  recommend to the General Conference that it amend  ite Rules of Procedure so as to increase the number  of Vice-Presidents from twelve to fifteen. You will  find the recommendations of the Board in document
11 C/37 which has been distributed. In view of the  fact that the Nominations Committee is to meet  immediately after this plenary meeting, the Board  suggests that the Conference might agree to put this  question for discussion immediately. Should the  Conference approve the suggestion, it would then be  possible to present to the Nominations Committee at  the same time all the recommendations of the Execu-  tive Board on the candidatures to the posts of   PLENARY M£ETINOS  Vice-Presidents ofthe Conference. With your per-  mission, Mr. President, I suggest that we dispose of  that matter before I approach the question of the  adoption of the agenda.
5,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French};  Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard the proposals  of the Executive Board. If there are no objections,  these proposals will be considered as adopted.
5.2 The proposals of the Executive Board are  adopted.  ADOPTION OF THE REYISED AGENDA
5.3 I now call upon the Chairman of the Executive  Board to submit the revised agenda.
6.1 Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (Unifed Kingdom),  Chairman of the Executive Board:  Mr. President, then if we turn to the question of  our Rules of Procedure and the adoption of the  agenda, in accordance with Rule 13 the General  Conference has to approve its own agenda, The  Executive Board has considered the provisional  agenda and also the supplementary items that have  been proposed by Member States and by the Director-  General in accordance with Rule 11 of our Rules of  Procedure, This document is now before the  members of the Conference as 11 C/1 (Rev. ).
6.2 1 must draw the attention of ny fellow delegates  to the fact that two Member States - the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics and Cuba - have requested  the inclusion of two new items in the agenda after  the statutory time-limnit for the admission of items  had expired, These requests are contained in two  documents 11 C/35 and 11 C/39 which should be in  the hands of delegates.
6.3 According to Rule 14, Mr, President, requests  received after the deadline may be added to the.agenda  by the approval of two-thirds of the members of ‘the  Conference present and voting, but such new iteins  must be referred in the first instance to the General  Committee of the Conference for its report before the  vote is taken, in accordance with Rule 36, paragr'\iph
1 (c). The Executive Board, then, is of the view lhat  these requests must be examined by the General  Committee of the Conference at its first meetin z,
7. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I now call upon H. E. Mr. Lapin, Head of the  delegation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
8.1 Mr. LAPIN (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  (Translation from the Russian):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, we have just  listened to the very illuminating speech by the  distinguished representative of the great Indian  people. I should like to point out that in the Soviet  Union, there is not a single person active in cultural,  scientific or political life who would not subscribe to  the spirit and letter of the ideas expressed by the  Indian representative.
8.2 The Soviet Union deiegation has proposed the  inclusion in the agenda of the eleventh session of the  General Conference of Unesco of the " Declaration  on the grant of independence to colonial countries
67  m  and peoples" presented by the Soviet Union delegation  to the fifteenth seseion of the United Nations General  Assembly, . The text of the declaration has been  distributed by the Unesco Secretariat to all particl-  pants in the present Conference, and Unesco is asked  to support it, on obvious grounds, for the declaration
1s inspired by the Organization's own ideals and  objectives, Unesco is also asked to do everything it  can to contribute to the speediest possible elimination  of the harmful after-effects of colonialism in tle  fields of education, science and culture, Co-operation  in the abolition of colonial rule, as the Indian repre-  sentative put it in his speech, and help in overcoming  the after-effects of colonialism as rapidly as possible,  constitute one of the principal tasks which Unesco has  to fulfil, . +
8,3 Our turbulent century can with full justification  be called the century of the siruggle for freedom, the  century in which the oppressed peoples are shaking  off the foreign colonial yoke. Following Asia, where  the largest countries have freed themselves from  colonial régimes, Africa, too, has squared its mighty  shoulders. Colonialism 18 in its death throes; its  days are numbered, Millions of Africans, still  languishing in colonial bondage, are no longer dumb  slaves; they have taken up the struggle and demand  their freedom.
8.4 Expressing the will of millions of Soviet men  and women, as well as the thoughts and aspirations  of the peoples of Asia, Africa and Latin America, the  Soviet Government submitted its "Declaration on the  grant of independence to colonial countries and peyples"  to the fifteenth session of the United Nations General  Assembly, This completely demolishes the myth of  the inability of colonial peoples to govern, create or  build, and may rightly be called an indictment of  colonialism, a death sentence on the shameful system  of imperialism, It {s now clear that colonialism is  approaching its end, but unfortunately the peoples of  Kenya, Uganda, Tanganyika, Ruanda-Urundi, Angola,  Mozambique, Northern and Southern Rhodesia,  Sierra Leone, South West Africa, Zanzibar, West  Irian, Puerto Rico, Guiana and many other countries  are still under the colonial yoke.
8.5 That is why it has become more urgent than .  ever before to launch the final attack against colonial-  ism and put an end once for all to this shameful blot  on humanity,
8.6 The Executive Board of Unesco, for purely  formal reasons, has so far not included our proposal  in the agenda. The Soviet Union delegation requests  the plenary meeting of the Conference to support our  proposal that the General Conference should discuss  the question of what measures could be taken by  Unesco in support of the declaration, I trust that  this proposal will be supported,
8.7 A suggestion has also been made for the  inclusion in the agenda of the Cuban representative's  proposal that every State, whether great or small,  be guaranteed the conditions necessary for its  independent existence, freedom from intervention in  its internal affairs, respect for its sovereignty and  its free development under the social and economic  system voluntarily chosen by its own people. This  proposal (document 11 C/39) has been distributed to  participants in the Conference,
8.8 The present period is characterized by the fact
111 PLENARY  that the peoples of many countries have liberated  themselves from the bonds of servitude; but there  is still a danger of the restoration of colonialism in  certain countries, Attempts are being made, in fact,  to reimpose the former systems, I am sure that I  am expressing the general opinion of all the delega-  tions present in saying that the action of any State  which attempts to intervene in another State in  respect of matters arising from economic, social or  cultural differences, should be forthrightly  condemned, Decisive measures agaînst such an  aggressor State should be taken by all peace loving  countries in order to put an end to any aggressive  acts violating the sovereignty and independence of  other countries, I ai therefore fully in favour of  the inoluajon of the Cuban proposal in the agenda.  This step is justified by the fundamental importance  of the question concerned,
8.9 The Soviet Union delegation has also proposed  that the question of the representation of the People's  Republic of China in Unesco be included in the agenda.  This proposal is listed in all documents as item 7 of  the provisional agenda, and its inclusion is urgently  necessary for a number of reasons. How can confi-  dence be created throughout the world if such discri-  mination is permitted against the 650 milllon-strong  Chinese people?
8.10 The People's Republic of China has now been  in existence for eleven years, The industrious  Chinese people has transformed its country from an  economically backward country into a leading  industrialized State, and great progress has been  achieved in the fields of education, science and  culture. Successful efforts are being made to eradi-  cate illiteracy, which is the heritage of a long period  of colonial domination in China, and an extensive  network of primary and secondary schools and higher  educational establishments has been created for that  purpose. The People's Republié of China is constantly  extending its international relations and amplifying  its international co-operation, and its role in world  affairs has become immeasurably greater.
8.11 The fact that China is deprived of its rightful  place in the United Nations is a black spot in the  history of that international body. This is now begin-  ning to be recognized by leading figures in all  countries who are championing China's legitimate  rights. The Soviet Union delegation and the delega-  tions of many other countries are firmly convinced  that the unnatural exclusion of the People's Republic  of China from participation in Unesco's work is  extremely harmful to the Organization itself, for  this policy restricts its sphere of activity and hampers  co-operation between all peoples in the fields of edu-  cation, acience and culture in the interests of world  peace. ‘
8.12 How can we speak of objectivity if it is possible  to refer in the Constitution to the " educational and  scientific and cultural relations of the peoples of the  world" while in practice excluding the Chinese people  from such relations? How can we speak of the  development of mutual understanding between Eastern  and Weatern cultures if we leave out of account the  . most ancient culture of the East - that of the great  Chinesé péople?
8.13 What is the reason for all this? Why is the  Constitution violated? Unesco was created for the  MEETINGS  .  purpose of ensuring co-operation between all peoples  and the establishment of world peace; and it {a there-  fore essential to put a stop to the infringement of the  Chinese people's rights in our Organization, The  Soviet Union delegation urges the Member States of  Unesco to take a realistic view of the actual situation,  and remove the injustice which has so far been done  in Unesco to the great Chinese people. It urges, in  the interests of justice and of the consolidation of  international co-operation and world peace, that the  People's Republic of China be offered its rightful  place in Unesco,
8.14 We also propose the deletion from the agenda  of item 23, 2, 2 concerning the contributions of the  Chiang Kai-shek group, This question cannot be  considered in the absence of China's lawful  representatives,
8.15 Fellow delegates, Mr, President, allow me to  communicate to you a message which [have just  received from the President of the Council of Ministers  of the ""nion of Soviet Socialist Republics, Nikita  Sergeevich Khrushchev: :  "To the eleventh session of the General Conference  of Unesco, Paris. On behalf of the Government of  the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, as well as  on my own behalf, I extend greetings to the parti-  cipants in the eleventh session of the General  Conference of Unesco. Your Conference is meeting  at a crucial moment in history, when humanity is  rapidly renewing its forms of social structure and,  thanks to an ever deeper grasp of natural laws, now  has at its command more and more new and remark-  able scientific and technical achievements. Our  era has all that is necessary for the progress of  humanity and for the creation of abundance of  material and cultural wealth for all peoples,  Despite this, the menace of war still overshadows  the world and hundreds of millions of people in the  various continents are suffering from hunger,  disease, destitution and illiteracy. Many peoples  are still deprived of the most elementary human  rights; they live under the colonial yoke and are  subjected by the colonizers to merciless oppression,  violence and plunder. The armaments race  provoked by the imperialists deprives humanity of  immense material and spiritual resources, and is  driving the world towards a catastrophe which  threatens to produce an unprecedented number of  victims and the destruction of the treasures of  world civilization, All peoples have avital interest  in preventing war, in abolishing as rapidly as  possible the shameful colonial system and in  strengthening the principles of peaceful coexistence  in international relations, The United Nations  Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization  can make a significant contribution to the glorious  task of creating a world without war, a world  without armaments, a world without oppressed and  enslaved peoples. Only under conditions of lasting  peace can there be really fruitful collaboration  between scientists, cultural workers and educators  in all countries for the solution of the many serious  problems facing mankind. The Soviet Union, for  its part, will do everything in its power to consoli-  date peace and international co-operation. Iam  convinced that scientists and cultural workers  cannot remain neutral in the great battle for peace,   PLENARY  juet as they cannot and should not remain indifferent  to the legitimate struggle for national liberation  waged by the oppressed peoples against colonial  servitude. The Unesco Constitution proclaims the  need to consolidate peace, increase the welfare of  the peoples, ensure respect for the human person-  ality and guarantee the equality of rights of all  races and persons. 1 venture to express the hope  that the eleventh session of the General Conference  of Unesco will be guided by these high principles  and will adopt decisions constituting a worthy  contribution to the glorious task of promoting  peace and human progress,
9.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  In his address, H,E. Mr, Lapin requested the  inclusion of two new items which are not on the agenda  submitted to you. In conformity with Rules 11, 14  and 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference, these items are automatically referred  to the General Committee, which will report thereon  subsequently. We shall therefore not have to discuss  them now. .
9,2 I call upon H.,E. Mr. Mitchell, Head of the  delegation of Liberia.
10.1 Mr. MITCHELL (Liberfa):  Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, Mr.  Chairman of the Executive Board, fellow delegates,  the Liberian delegation finds it impossible to vote in  favour of the draft agenda for the eleventh session of  the General Conference in its present form. Firstly,  the deferment of the general debate until the middle  of the gesaion is the cause of great concern to our  delegation. It is the view of the Liberian delegation  that most of the delegations here present brought a  speech, already written for the general debate, which  to quite an extent gives an Indication of the reaction  of their government to the proposed programme and  budget. It would therefore seem logical for these  speeches to be made before the programme ls  considered. On the other hand, if the Director-  General thinks it is unnecessary to have these  speeches, auch a decision can be taken at this  Conference and there would be no opening speeches  at the twelfth session of the General Conference.
10.2 We consider out of place on the agenda of this  Organization, the item of disarmament. In the  opinion of the Libarian delegation, the discussion of  this question at Unesco would prejudice discussions  at present taking place at Geneva and in New York on  the same topic. We are concerned here with educa-  tion, sclence and culture. ‘The question of disarma-  ment is therefore outside the purview of this Organi-  zation. 1, for my part, refuse to disarm Unesco  since our arms are urgently needed to educate  millions of childrèn the world over,
10.3 ‘The Liberian delegation likewise sees no  reason for including any item on colonialism in the  agenda. The very presence here today of several  African delegations is a clear indication of the end  of colonialism, We do not believe in immediate or  violent change; we believe in gradual change.  Furthermore, the two main colonial hold-outs, the  Union of South Africa and Portugal, are not partici~  pating in this meeting and it will serve no purpose to  MEETINGS
6¢  m  include this item on the agenda. Those who are here  are thoroughly convinced that they must give up their  colonlal holdings on the African continent, Slerra  Leone is due for independence in 1961; Tanganyika is  due for independence in 1861 or 1962, as are several  of the British protectorates on the African continent.  We therefore feel that the British and the French are  now thoroughly convinced that they can no longer hold  the African In subjugation, To include such an item  in the agenda would mean a waste of precious time  that we need for more important business.
10,4 Finally, it is the belief of the Liberian delega-  tion that the question of the admission of the People's  Republic of China should not appear on the agenda of  the eleventh session of Unesco's General Conference.  In presenting this view, the Liberian delegation does  not consider the merits or demerits of the case, but  it feels that, inasmuch as the United Nations has  settled the question at {ts present session in New  York, it should not be included on the agenda here in  Paris. Furthermore, so much time would be spent  on the general debate on this topic, the outcome of  which {s already known, that a great disservice  would be done to our overall discussions,
10.5 The Liberian delegation therefore appeals to  this Conference in the name of education, science  and culture, in the name of the millions of children  the world over who are looking hopefully for some  concrete action from this Conference, to eliminate  these items - disarmament, colonialism, and the  admission of the People's Republic of China - from  the agenda.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H.E. Mr. Wierblowski, Head of the  delegation of Poland.
12,1 Mr. WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) (Translation  from the Russian); .  Mr. President and fellow delegates, I should like  to express my opinion concerning the agenda of the  General Conference and, first of all, with regard to  the Soviet proposal relating to the elimination of  colonialism. The present era is the era of the  abolition of colonialism; but this process is taking  place in very difficult circumstances: the blood of  the peoples of the colonial countries is being shed,  and many countries are still under colonial subju-  gation. It is essential to expedite the process and  create conditions which are favourable to it, and I  consider that the voice of the General Conference of  Unesco can be of the greatest value in this respect.  Together with the entire United Nations family, with  all the Specialized Agencies, we should adopt a clear  position on all questions relating to the elimination of  colonialism. It is the duty of all international organi-  zations and all peoples to help the countries still  under the colonial yoke to take their place as rapidly  as possible in the family of free and independent  nations.
12.2 .Itherefore fully e dor se the Soviet Union  proposal and hope that, it will be supported ut our  Conference and at the General Assembly and will be  included in the agenda.‘
12.3 The Polish delegation is also whole-heartedly  in favour of including the Cuban Government's pro-  posal in the agenda. The Cuban people has embarked   III PLENARY  upon the path of all-round development of its capaët-  ties within the framework of a truly independent State.  It is beset by many dangers, and I feel that no one is  more qualified than the Cuban representatives to  request the inclusion in the agenda of a question con-  cerning intervention'in a State's internal affairs,  The Cuban delegation's proposal should accordingly  be included as an agenda item.
12.4 Subject to the deletion of the item concerning  the Kuomintang's financial contributions, the Polish  delegation approves the agenda as a whole, i.e, with  the retention of item 7 concerning thé representation  of the Central Government of the People’s Republic  of China. This question has already been much  discussed at previous sessions of the General Confer-  ence as well as at the present session, and I feel that  there can be no doubt as to the need to raise this  question of the representation of the great Chinese  people, numbering 650 milllon.
12.5 I consider that, subject to the deletion of the  item concerning the Kuomintang's contributions, we  should adopt the agenda together with the additions  proposed by Member States, i.e. by the Soviet Union  and Cuban delegations, I feel sure that the General  Conference will appreciate the nrgency of these  questions and take decisions which will enable our  Organization to enhance its prestige among the  peoples of the world and develop its efforts in the  fields of education, science and culture, which are  those in which it should show the utmost possible  initiative, But In order that it may do so, those  phenomena in international life which are incompatible  with sound judgement and international law have first  to be eliminated. I am of the opinion that if we adopt  the agenda in the form suggested by the Polish dele-  gation we shall be proceeding along the right lines.
13. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H.E. Mr. Thayer, Head of the delega-  tion of the United States of America.
14.1 Mr, THAYER (United States of America):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, representing,  as I have the honour of doing before this Conference,  the first colonized people in the world to gain their  freedom from colonization, I beg, Sir, in accordance  with the Rules of Procedure, to reserve my comment  on this question as well as on the proposal by the  delegation of Cuba to the General Committee, to  which this question has been referred. In this con-  nexion, may I be permitted to comment that it seems  to me that the business of this Conference could  proceed more quickly and a waste of time could be  avoided if some of the delegates would observe more  closely the Rules of Procedure.
14.2 On the question raised by the representatives  who have just spoken, the question of the contribution  of the Republic of China, it seems to me fairly  obvious that if, as we decided yesterday, we are not  going to raise the question of the unseating of the  present delegation and the seating of any other dele-  gation from China, then the question of the contribu-  tion of the delegation of China which is before us,  must be on the ‘agenda and must properly remain  there. After all, the contribution of each delegation  to Unesco is of very vital importance to this Confer- .  ence, It controls the right to vote, it adds to or  MEETINGS
70  subtracts from the budget, and how we can possibly  avoid discussing this subject or retaining it on the  agenda is beyond my comprehension. ‘I submit,  Mr, President, that this item should certainly  remain where it is.
14.3 On the question of the inclusion of an item  proposed hy the USSR that the representation of China  in Unesco be included in this agenda, I hesitate to  repeat what I sald very clearly yesterday. We have  already decided this question, it has no place on the  agenda, and it is simply inserted here in order to  introduce political discussion into this Conference.  It is to me beyond comprehension that anyone who  heard the extraordinary speech of the Vice-President  of India this morning, in which he called upon this  Conference to concern itself with the minds and  spirits of humanity, can possibly think of introducing  into this Conference purely political matters for  propaganda purposes.
14.4 This Conference hay decided to follow the  leadership of the United Wations General Assembly in  this matter, and to rep:at decisions of previous  General Conferences in rejecting the consideration of  this issue in Unesco. We have not the time to under-  take a lengthy discussion of issues such as this, we  must leave them to the United Nations General  Assembly. I will not go into this matter further,  Mr. President, because I realize that under the Rules  of Procedure there should be no substantive discussion  of an issue when we are considering whether or not  the issue is to be included in the agenda. But, since  this itern has been proposed by the USSR for the  agenda, 1 realize that it will be necessary to vote on  the matter again, and I recommend and move that we  proceed to the vote to reject the inclusion of this  subject in the agenda of the Conference.
15, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  A new speaker has just handed in his name. 1  therefore call upon H.E. Mr. Slipchenko, Head of the  delegation of the Ukraine.
16,1 Mr. SLIPCHENKO (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr, President and fellow delegates, the speeches  made by the representatives of the United States of  America and Liberia fn opposition to the Soviet  Union's proposals relating to the declaration against  colonialism and to disarmament, as well as against  the Cuban delegation's proposal, clearly reveal the  central purpose of the activities of those who are  organizing and participating in this campaign under  the leadership of the United States delegation. Those  activities are divected against the proposals made by  the Soviet Union and Cuba and their aim is to prevent  an authoritative international organization like Unesco  from adding its voice to that raised by other inter-  national organizations and by millions of people in all  countries in forthright condemnation of the armaments  race, the shameful colonial system and the threat of  atomic war and in vigorous support of international  co-operation and the peaceful existence of all peoples  of the world.
16.2 The United States delegation objects to the  Soviet Union's proposals, i.e. to the declaration  against colonialism and to the discussion of the  question of disarmament, at the very time when   PLENARY MEETINGS  tremendous efforts are being made throughout the  world to reach agreement on the main probleme  exercising everyone without exception, including  those who are now seated in this hall and who  represent their respzétive peoples in this Organiza-  tion; at a time when every weighty and authoritative  word - particularly that of such a reputable organi-  zation as Unesco - is of great importance, It is  characteristic that none of the opponents of the  Soviet Union's proposals objects in principle to the  actual idéa of the cessation of the armaments race,  or to the reduction of tension, the elimination of  colonialism, and so on; but this 1s simply verbal  camouflage. Déeds, not words, are what are  wanted - and here and now, at this General  Conference of Unesco.
16.3 I must state that I, like certain other delegates,  listened with sorrow to what the Liberian representa-  tive, Mr. Mitchell, had to say. He, if anyone, should  know that more than a hundred million of his brothers  in Africa are still under the yoke of colonialism.  Every one of the African peoples is faced with a host  of problems of different kinds - political, economic,  social and cultural, apart from which there are  general African problems and general human problems  on whose solution hangs not only the fate of one people  but the future of the entire African continent and of the  world in general.’
16.4 What are these problems? They comprise the  political and economic liberation of the whole of  Africa and the question of disarmament - the vital  question of whether men will live under peaceful  conditions or under the conditions of war. Why, then,  oppose the altogether clear, precise and constructive  proposais submitted by the Soviet Union?
16.5 The question of the inclusion of the Cuban  delegation's proposal in the agenda algo deserves  our most earnest attention, As stated in the message  we have just heard from the President of the Council  of Ministers of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,  Mr. Khrushchev, the world is still menaced by war.  Intervention in the internal affairs of any of our  Organization's Member States, and, in the present  case, the threat of such intervention in the affairs of  Cuba, is a direct threat to the cause of peace.
16.6 The question raised by tiie Cuban delegation  brooks no delay. The point at issue fs whether a  member of our Organization is to remain an indepen-  dent State, whether Cuba is to develop its activities  in the fields of education, science and culture with  complete political freedom. Everyone, of course,  knows perfectly well what the matter is all about,  and who and what {8 now threatening the Cuban people  which only quite recently won its freedom with such  tenacity and heroism.
16.7 Having put an end to the Batista dictatorship,  the Cuban people liberated itself from foreign  exploitation, took charge of its own destiny and  firmly informed the American monopolists that it  was master of its own fate and its own riches and  that it intended to enjoy the fruits of its own labour  and its highly developed culture. Unesco cannot but  listen to the voice of a people when {it asks for pro-  tection, when its freedom and national property are  gravely menaced.
16,8 In welcoming young countries to Unesco House,  we should bear in mind our obligations. We are  n  m  responsible for the destiny of every member of our  Organization. Yes, gentlemen, Cuba now has a new  régime, an excellent one that pleases the Cuban  people, and every member of Unesco should respect  this régime and not engage in ‘any accivities aimed at  changing it by force, or, to put it mure precisely, at  restoring the old colonial system, No, Unesco  cannot remain silent, and if we wish to maintain and  enhance the Orgenization's prestige in the eyes of  the peoples fighting for their Uberation, we must vote  for the inclusion of the Cuban proposal in the agenda  of the present session,
16.9 The Soviet Union's proposal that the question  of the representation in Unesco of the People's  Republic of China be included in the agenda is just as  important; it should and obviously will, be retained  in the agenda. Our delegation reserves the right to  speak again or this question when it comes up for  discussion at a plenary meeting of the Conference.
17.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Ladies and gentlemen, I did not wish to interrupt  the honourable speaker we have just heard, but,  since I am presiding over your meeting, it is my duty  to see that the rules are observed: I am therefore  compelled to point out that, in a set!~s of addresses  we have just heard, two questions have heen raised  which are not on the agenda and which should be  referred to the General Committee for consideration.  When it has the General Committee's report before  it, the Conference will have every opportunity to  discuss these problems thoroughly. To open a dis-  cussion on them now, in a sort of indirect way, is  not in keeping either with the spirit or the letter of  the rules governing our debates.
17.2 We still have another eight speakers on this  item of the agenda. I request them, so that our work  may proceed smoothly, to be kind enough to confine  their remarks to items on the agenda and to leave  aside questions which are automatically referred to  the General Committee for consideration.
17.3 I now call upon H.E. Mr, Kiselev, Head of the  delegation of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic.
18.1 Mr. KISELEV (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, we are now  considering a crucial question as regards the work  of our Conference - the determination of the contents  of its agenda. The Conference is allowing itself to  make a serious error which will not be pardoned  either by our contemporaries or by future historians,
18.2 First of all, on behalf of the delegation of the  Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, I wish to  extend cordial greetings to all new States admitted  to membership of Unesco and to their delegations  who are taking part in the work of the present Confer-  ence. The participation of new States in the work of  the General Conference of Unesco is a significant  event which reflects the great changes that are taking  place in the life of mankind, The forination of new  independent States is clear proof of the peoples!  growing consciousness and of their firm resolution  to put colonialism in its grave.
18.3 We are convinced that the conquest of indep-  endence after a long and just struggle will have a   Il PLENARY  beneficial effect on the economic and cultural  development of the peoples liberated from colonial-  ism, and will ensure the national indépendence of  their countries and their advance along the road tp  social progress. Our delegation fully supports the  Soviet Union's proposal for the inclusion in the  agenda of the declaration concerning the elimination  of colonialism and the grant of independence to  colonial countries and peoples. The representative  of the great Indian people and other delegates have  already spoken eloquently and convincingly on this  theme,
18.4 It is a very good thing that new members are  swelling the ranks of our Organization; this rejoices  all of us, for, as Mr, Khrushchev, the President of  the Council of Ministers of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics, emphasized in his message to  this Conference, the securing of world peace and the  development of all-round collaboration in the fields  of education, science and culture require that Unesco  should comprise all States regardless of their social  and political structure, It {s our duty to contribute  to the consolidation of world peace and to peaceful  co-operation with a view to promoting the welfare  and cultural development of all mankind.
18.5 At the fifteenth session of the United Nations  General Assembly, Mr, Khrushchey sald that whoever  wants world peace and disarmament should vote in  favour of the proposal that the People's Republic of  China should occupy its rightful place fn ‘he United  Nations and participate in the latter's activities  directed towards the consolidation of peace.
18.6 The delegation of the Byelorussian SSR  considers it completely intolerable that the Chinese  nation, numbering 650 million and constituting one-  fourth of the entire human race, should be deprived  of the possibility of participating in the work of  Unesco, an organization whose object is to help to  promote the peace and the security of the peoples of  the world and develop international co-operation in  the fields of education, science and culture. China's  rightful place in Unesco has for several years now  been occupled by the Chiang Kai-shek group, which  represents no one and which is supported by the  American authorities occupying the island of Taiwan,
18.7 The flagrant violation of the lawful rights of  the People's Republic of China is the outcome of the  aggressive policy of discrimination adopted by the  Government of ihe United States and the latter's  military allie $, of the pressure put on Unesco by  imperialisti< ‘circles in the United States and their  NATO pariirers. It was precisely under the pressure  of the United States, blinded by its hatred of the  People's Republic of China and its Socialist system,  that yesterday's plenary meeting of our Conference,  despite common sense had forced upon it, by an  insignificant majority, the shameful decision to  accept the credentials of the Chiang Kai-shek group,  those traitors to the Chinese people.
18.8 It is completely clear to all persons who  soberly consider the facts of the situation that the  great Chinese people can and should be represented  in all international organizations, including Unesco,  only by delegates who are appointed by the Central  Government of the People! s Republic of China. The  People's Government exercises full authority over  the entire territory of China, ‘The United States!  -1   [2   MEETINOS  efforts to resuscitate a political corpse, namely  that of Chiang Kai-shek and his putrefied régime,  are merely poisoning the international atmosphere,  in our Organization as elsewhere, ’
18.9 Forgive my frankness, but the Chiang Kal-shek  group reminds me of the toad in the popular fable by  the Byelorussian writer Kondrat Krapiva, "The toad  in the wheel track". The fable tells about how an  obstinate toad decided to overturn a large cart; "I  have only to sit in the wheel track, push under the  wheel with my shoulder and I shall send the cart  flying". As was to be expected, however, the toad's  reasoning played it false; the wheel of the cart passed  over it and crushed it, and the cart went serenely on  its way, ’
18.10 The People's Republic of China, with its feet  firmly planted on the road of Socialist construction,  moves confidently forward. It has scored great  successes in the economic, social and cultural fields,  and it has also won wide international recognition,  and has established normal diplomatic relations with  many other countries. Its trade and cultural relations  now extend to most parts of the world. . The Chinese  Government and people actively support the principle  of international economic and cultural co-operation.  A cultural revolution is at present proceeding through-  out the whale of China and great progress is being  made in education, science and culture. The People's  Republic of China is conducting a peaceful foreign  policy, and seeks to establish friendly relations with  all countries.‘ Its foreign policy 1s based on the  principles of peaceful coexistence worked out at the  Bandung Conference of Aslan and African countries.
18.11 Article 1 of the Unesco Constitution speaks of  the respect for justice and the rule of law; but justice  has been violated, Here, in the hall of the General  Conference, the seats rightfully belonging to the  People's Republic of China are occupied by the  Chiang Kai-shek group which represents no one and  which is passionately defended by the representative  of the United States of America. The Chinese people  has dumped these political bankrupts on to the rubbish  heap of history. The fact that China has no lawful  representatives in Unesco is extremely harmful to  our Organization and restricts its sphere of activity.  The Chinese people has a rich and age-old culture,  and Unesco cannot be a fully competent and universal  organization for international co-operation in educa-  tion, science and culture if it disregards the outstand-  ing achievements of the Chinese people.
18.12 There is no need to prove that without the  participation of the People's Republic of China no  real effect can be given to the East-West Major  Project adopted at the ninth session of the General  Conference, as the Indian delegate has aptly indicated.  World opinion demands that the People's Republic of  China should occupy its rightful place in the United  Nations and in all the United Nations organizations.  This is clearly shown by the speeches made at the  United Nations by the leading statesmen of Africa,  Asia and Europe. The speedy restoration of China's  rights in the United Nations was advocated by the  Prime Minister of India, Mr. Jawarhalal Nehru, the  President of Indonesia, Mr. Soekarno, the President  of Guinea, Mr. Sekou Touré, the President of Ghana,  Mr. Nkrumah, the President of the United Arab  Republic, Mr. Nasser, and many others,   PLENARY
18.13 The recent presidential election in the United  States of America likewise confirmed the failure of  the policy of non-recognition of the People's Republic  of China, The Américan people rejects the policy of  leading circles in the United States of {gnoring the  People's Republig of China, This policy of non-  recognition has no hope of success.
18,14 The delegation of the Byelorussian SSR,  expressing the will of the Byelorussian Government  and people, fully supports the proposal that the  question of China's representation in Unesco be  included in the agenda of the present session, We  call upon the delegates to the Conference to summon  up the necessary courage to remedy the error  committed yesterday and to adopt a wise decision,  which 1s the only just one, namely, the restoration  of the legitimate rights in Unesco of the People's  Republic of China, The restoration of those legiti-  mate rights will enhance Unesco's prestige and  authority and will be a positive contribution to the  development of mutual understanding and to the  intellectual solidarity of all peoples of the world.
18,15 We categorically object, furthermore, to the  inclusion in the agenda of the present Conference of  item 23.2,2 concerning China's contributions and  arrears in the payment of contributions, as the  Chiang Kai-shek group does not represent China,
18.16 In addition, we whole-heartedly support the  Cuban proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the  question concerning the censure of any State which  attempts to intervene in the affairs of another. This  question is extremely important and is linked up with  the general struggle against the shameful phenomenon  known as colonialism, Our delegation is convinced  that the present Conference will make a worthy  contribution in fact, to the great cause of the peoples’  struggle for peace and for peaceful coexistence.
19,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I must point out that we still have to hear the  spokesmen of the following delegations: Czechoslovakia,  China, Guinea, the United Arab Republic, Cuba, Viet-  Nam and Rumania. Finally, the Minister of Education  of Nigeria, who has to leave Paris this afternoon,  would be happy to say a few words to the Conference  at the end of the meeting. I shall therefore ask  speakers to be as brief as possible.
19.2 I call upon Mr, Pavlik, of the delegation of  Czechoslovakia.
20,1 Mr, PAVLIK (Czechoslovakia) (Translation  from the Russian):  Mr. President, speaking today on behalf of the  delegation of the Socialist Republic of Czechoslovakia,  I should like to dwell briefly upon some of the  questions already touched on here. In the first place,  tne delegates of certain countries, such as the United  States of America and Liberia, object to the Soviet  vroposal concerning the right of thé People's  Republic of China to be represented in Unesco.  These delegates adduce procedural arguments and  wish to avoid the discussion of this vital question.
20.2 They forget that Unesco should be an organiza-  tion effectively based on the principle of the universal.  representation of all countries of the world, If  Unesco wishes to carry out successfully its great  tasks as defined in the Constitution, namely, "to
73  MEETINGS  um  contribute to peace and security by promu;ing colla-  boration among the nations through educatiün, science  and culture in order to further universal respect for  justice, for the rule of law and for the human rights  and fundamental freedoms which are affirmed for the  peoples of the world, without distinction of race, sex,  language or religion, by the Charter of the United  Nations", an end must be put to the abnormal and  truly shameful situation in which the great Chinese  people, which represents almost one-fourth of the  world's population, has no representative In this  Organization.
20.3 Anyone who thinks that such a situation can  endure is acting contrary to the principles on which  our Organization is based. I should like to ask this  question: Who profits by such a policy, and who loses  by it? Unesco or the People's Republic of China?  Certainly not the People's Republic of China, which  is pursuing a clear objective - its further development  in fields of economy, culture and education. The  greatest sufferer from this policy is Unesco for  without the active participation of such an important  country as the People's Republic of China it is  impossible for it to carry out its mission and its  tasks successfully,
20.4 It is impermissible, surely, that an organiza-  tion like Unesco, whose mission is to ensure the  international co-ordination of activities in the fields  of education, science and culture, should refuse to  enlist the co-operation of China with its ancient  culture, its age-old scientific traditions and its many-  sided creative activity.
20.5 In the name of justice, the delegation of the  Socialist Republic of Czechoslovakia insistently  demands that this question be included in the agenda  and that the lawful representatives of China be allowed  to participate in Unesco's work.
20.6 The Czechoslovak delegation will not vote for  the agenda item concerning the contributions of the  so-called representatives of China.
20.7 I also declare, on behalf of my delegation,  that it supports the Soviet Union delegation's proposal  for the inclusion in the agenda of the " Declaration on  the grant of independence to colonial countries and  peoples" and also the Cuban delegation’ s request.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H.E. Mr. Chen Hiong-Fei, Head of the  delegation of China.
22.1 Mr. CHEN Hiong-Fei (China) (Translation  from the French):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be  very brief. My first intention in asking to speak,  Mr. President, was to request you to {ry to introduce  some order into our discussions. In fact, Mr.  President, you forestalled me, but it must be admitted  that your advice has not had much effect. I regret  this and 1 think that you, Mr. President, regret it  as much as I do. It is to be hoped that subsequent  speakers will have a clearer idea in their minds of  the tasks assigned to us as delegates at this session  of the General Conference of Unesco. There can be  no doubt that those who addressed you from this  platform a few moments ago were speaking solely  for propaganda purposes. I shall refrain from  discussing some of the aspects of the items it has   HI PLENARY  been proposed to include on the agende” That is a  question of procedure provided for in the relevant  rules, However, | am sure that you’ will not hold it  against me, Mr. President, and nor will the meeting,  if the delegation of China feels that it must say some-  thing with regard to some of the terms used here.
22,2 Among the members of Unesco, there is no  representative of the Kuomintang. Personally, I  know perfectly well what the Kuomintang is, as you  perhaps do too, but I have no intention of enlarging  upon that subject. I only ask that individuals claiming  to be cultured and educated abstain from using certain  expressions on this platférm, We Chinese do not  understand education and culture in that way,
22.3 A great deal has been said about colonialism  and there has been a considerable amount of dis-  cussion on the subsance of that question, I shall not  follow the example of the previous speakers. The  General Committée will consider the question and  report to the Coference. May I be permitted only  to say that thir concept of colonialism lends itself to  different intevpretations? Some delegates have  pointed out that France and the United Kingdom are  conscious of the evolution of history and that the  governments administering other countries are  perfectly aware of it as well,
22,4 Ia my opinion, China has also in a way experi-  enced the effects of colonialism and imperialism and  I am all the more qualified to tell you that, in our  opinion, certain new forms cf imperialism and  colonialism are continuing to spread. It seems to  me that the old colonialism is well and truly dead  and I believe that those who were the colonizers have  realized this. But, I repeat, I very much fear that a  new kind of colonialism is making attempts to spread.  I shall not dot my i's. You understand me, and we  shall thus waste far less time.
22.5 I only want to add with regard to the so-called  problem of the representation of China - an item  which appeared on the provisional agenda - that, in  my view, the General Conference already reached a  decision yesterday afternoon and will be giving proof  of its wisdom and efficiency in regard to Unesco's  methods of work if it refrains from reopening this  question, which no longer has any validity.
22.6 Before leaving the platform, Mr. President,  I only venture to hope that you will be able to use  your authority to ensure that the discussions and  debates of this meeting are on the same high level as  our proposed aims and are worthy of the distinguished  individuals sitting amongst us.
23. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H.F, Mr. Sanguiana, Head of the  delegation of Guinea. :
24,1 Mr. SANGUIANA (Guinea) (Translation from  the French):  Mr. President and delegates, the Republic of  Guinea, in order to remain true to its ideals and to  those of this august assembly, pleads for the retention  on the agenda of the items proposed by the delegation  of the Soviet Union. If Unesco were not to tackle the  question of the abolition of colonialism by considering  the representation of some countries which are  entirely colonized, it would be equivalent to closing  our eyes completely to a living reality, to forgetting  MEETINGS  that, throughout the world, millions of men are still  living under the yoke of nations which claim to be  superior and to misunderstanding the fact that a  proportion of mankind is still suffering from a policy  of discrimination with its attendant social ills and  hateful crimes,
24.2 It is the noble task of Unesco to fight for inter-  nationaj acceptance of the principles of freedom and  equality, seeking to raise living standards throughout  the world and to secure results conducive to human  progress, We should, with the same ideals in view,  seek out and {ry to eliminate the causes of dissension  and discord which are plunging the world into the cold  war. That 1s why I love the generous mission which  falls to us as members of Unesco.
24.3 The Soviet proposal therefore seems perfectly  fair and reasonable. We should be wrong to reject it  ior motives which are totally unjustified if we really  want to create an atmosphere conducive to peace and  world progress.
24.4 The freedom of culture, science and education  can be a reality only for nations also enjoying physical,  political and economic freedom. If it be Unesco's  mission to fight for this noble aim, then it is {ts duty  to consider the problem of the liberation of the  colonized peoples, as proposed in the agenda.
25, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Because of the time, I shall, with your consent,  ladies and gentlemen, call upon H.E, Mr. Aja  Nwachuku, Minister of Education of Nigeria, who has  to leave Paris in a few hours and wishes to address  the Conference before he goes.
26.1 Mr, NWACHUKU (Nigeria):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I bring to  you cordial greetings from the governments and  people of the Federation of Nigeria who attained  independence on 1 October this year. As an Associate  Member of Unesco, Nigeria has sent representatives  to the last two sessions of the General Conference and  has also participated in a number of the activities of  this great Organization. For example, in February  this year, Nigeria was represented at a meeting of  Ministers and Directors of Éducation, held in the  city of Addis Ababa, on the needs of the Tropical  African countries in the field of primary, general  secondary and technical education, A few months  later it was represented at the Accra Conference on  Technical Education and at the Cotonou Conference  on Education of and Opportunities for Women.
26.2 Ihave personally led two Nigerian delegations  to Geneva, to the International Conference on Public  Education, held under the joint auspices of Unesco  and the International Bureau of Education, During  the period in which Nigeria has been an Associate  Member of Unesco, it has been accorded much  courtesy by and received encouragement from the  Member States and officials of the Organization,  Nigeria is grateful for those courtesies and that  encouragement. It is also proper for me to mention  that Nigeria has benefited from the guidance and  assistance she has received from the United Kingdom  in connexion with the activities of Unesco whilst she  was an Associate Member. Following her attainment  of independence, Nigeria was admitted by unanimous  vote to membership of the United Nations organization.   PLENARY  On the occasion of her formal admission as the 99th  member of that-great organization, the Nigerian  delegation was led by the Prime Minister, the  Honourable Alhaji Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa,  The Prime Minister briefly stated the principles  which Nigeria has adopted as the basis of her policy  in international relations; with regard to the United  Nations, Nigeria desires to remain on friendly terms  with all nations and to participate actively in the work  of the United Nations organization, |
26.3 Now I have the honotr and pleasure of leading  the Nigerian delegation to this eleventh session of  the General Conference of Unesco. This session is  of great significance to Nigeria, for it {s the session  at which you have extended your hand of friendship to  draw us to full membership of the Organization, thus  enabling us to share fully with you in all its activities.  It is in recognition of this fact and of the importance  which this Organization holds for us, that the  Nigerian delegation on this occasion includes the  Ministers of Education from the three component  regions of the Federation of Nigeria, in addition to  myself as Federal Minister of Education. The  document preifminary to Nigeria's accession to  Unesco as a full member was signed in London on
2 November by our High Commissioner, 1 can give  our assurance that this formal act carried with it  full recognition of the important rôle which Unesco  plays in world affairs and my country's determina-  tion tc ay a worthy part in promoting its ends.
26.4 So far as is in our power, we shall co-operate  fully in the programmes for the promotion of the  educational, scientific and cultural objects of the  Organization, We welcome all measures calculated  to bring about a closer understanding between  nations, based on mutual appreciation of the  character and traditions of their peoples. The needs  of Nigeria in men, money and materials are immense.  In this connexion, the recent report entitled  "Investment in Education" which was made to me as  the Federal Minister of Education by an internation-  ally manned commission under the chairmanship of  Sir Eric Ashby, Master of Clare College, Cambridge  University, is most relevant. The report has set out  in the most formidable terms what is needed to  provide Nigeria with high level manpower on a scale  to meet the country's needs in the modern world,  The Commission has attempted to forecast Nigeria's  educational needs up to 1980; the recommendations  are far reaching, unconventional and expensive to  carry into effect. They will be practicable only if  Nigerian education seeks outside aid and if the  Nigerian people themselves are prepared to accord  education first priority and to make sacrifices for it,  The second condition is already being fulfilled, for  the thirst for education in Nigeria is very great and  in parts of the Federation the provision for education  absorbs more than 40% of the annual budget, The  Ashby report on post-school certificate and higher  education in Nigeria was submitted to me at the  beginning of October this year, and the four govern-  ments of Nigeria are now examining it in co-operation,  with a view to bringing its proposals into effect with  the rapidity which our situation requires. It will  undoubtedly be vastly beyond our resources in money  and material and expert staff to carry out this  gigantic programme. We must inevitably look to our  T5  “MEETINGS m  friends overseas to assist us, Among them I count  the peoples represented by the delegates to this  present Conference,
26.5 The full implications and cosung of the pro-  posals have yet to be determinéd, but one proposal is  well worth mentioning here: in order to promote an  adequate flow of recruits for post-secondary education  there must be at the earliest opportunity an increase  in secondary school intake from the present level of  under 15,000 per annum to more than 30,000 per  annum In the next ten years, ‘The initial capital cost  of three new universities to be established is esti-  mated at about £20 million. Then higher teacher-  training colleges for the secondary schools and train-  ing collejÿes must be established, However, when  our plans have taken form in concrete projects, I feel  sure that Nigeria can count not only on the goodwill  but also on the practical assistance of the various  agencies, such as the Special Fund, which are asso-  clated with the activities of Unesco, In this connexion,  the recent visit of Mr, Maurice Dartigue to Nigeria  was of great significance.
26.6 Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion I wish to  say that Nigeria is happy to become a Momber State  of this great Organization. As we gratefully take  our place with you in this assembly we are fully  ecnscious of the responsibility which faces the Orga-  nization in the world today. You may count on  Nigeria's support in the years ahead.
27. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H.E. Mr. Awad, of the delegation of  the United Arab Republic.
28.1 Mr. AWAD (United Arab Republic):  Mr, President, 1 wish to speak on the question  which is before the General Conference, that of the  inclusion of item 7 on the agenda of the General  Conference. I was happy to listen to the remarks of  the representative of the United States concerning  colonialism and the fact that his country was the first  of all the colonies. His country has also sot an  example to the countries of the world as to how to  get rid of colonialism, and they have been following  in the footsteps of the United States ever since,  However, I do not find myself in agreement with the  proposal to exclude item 7. I think that we are here  faced with a real problem; this is a people of over
600 million, very nearly one-quarter of the human  race, with whom according to our Constitution we  should maintain cultural relations, For the sake of  friendship and peace we should collaborate with them  in the domains uf education, science and culture and  yet we are leaving them completely dlone. I wish  this item $0 remain on the agenda in order that my  delegation may be in a position to suggest ways and  means of creating contacts with the Chinese People's  Republic, with that great population which has been  one of the most important producers of human culture.  We cannot honestly pretend that we are fulfilling our  mission in Unesco and observing all the articles of  our Constitution if we leave the Chinese people to  themselves.
28.2 The United Nations has found means of contact-  ing the Chinese People's Republic, indeed, the  Secretary of the United Nations has gone all the way  to Peking to discuss certain problems. We might be   INT  able to send our Director-General or one of his  representatives, Or a mission, to Peking to find  means of contacting the Chinese people and maintain-  ing some relations between Unesco and that great  people. Even the United States is maintaining  contacts, son‘etimes in Czechoslovakia, in Prague,  and sometimes in Warsaw, where the representatives  of the two countries - China and the United States -  meet and with the help of a few bottles of vodka try  to reach some agreement on certain questions. Why  should we not do the same, even without vodka, and  try to establish some contact between Unesco and the  Chinese People's Republic? It is for this reason,  Mr. President, that with due respect to my  colleagues who have spoken against the inclusion of  item 7, I beg, on behalf cf my delegation, that we  retain item 7 on the agenda.
29. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H.E. Mr. Lazo, Head of the delegation  of Cuba,
30. Mr, LAZO (Cuba) (Translation from the  Spanish): .  Mr. President, fellow delegates, I shall address  this international gathering briefly and as clearly as  possible. To begin with, I would request you to  accept the proposal submitted by Cuba, which merely  reiterates a principle ...
31. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I must point out that the proposal must be con-  sidered by the General Committee and that a dis-  cussion on its substance should not be opened now.  The Rules of Procedure must be observed in this  instance as, indeed, in all others.
32.1 Mr, LAZO (Cuba) (Translation from the  Spanish):  I bow to the President's ruling and shall therefore  refer only to the reasons motivating the proposal  submitted by Cuba.
32.2 I feel somewhat worried and a little surprised  that we in the world today should be divided in the  face of clear, indisputable facts and evidence. I  cannot believe that there is any real, fundamental  opposition to the principle of non-intervention in the  internal affairs of one country by another.
32.3 Without going into any reasons, I simply wish  to draw the attention of délegates to Article I of  Unesco's Constitution, under paragraph 3 of which  our Organization undertakes not to interfere or  intervene in matters which are essentially the  private concern of its Member States. In other  words, Unesco begins by setting the example of  accepting the principle of non-ini.rvention in  matters which are essentially within the domestic  jurisdiction of the States of which it is composed.  We are faced with the fact that it is acknowledged as  necessary to international solidarity and to the  achievement of our Organization's aims that we do  everything possible to prevent the interference of  one State in the affairs of another. This is ihe  spirit of the proposal which we hope will be discussed  “at the opportune moment, Mr. President.
32.4 There has been, and still is, much discussion  and controversy about another principle which is not
76  PLENARY MEETINGS  of a political, but of a philosophical and moral order,  namely disarmament,
32.5 How can we, and on grounds of what procedure,  refuse to consider any movement in favour of peace,  in other words, of disarmament?
32.6 Mr, President and fellow delegates, we form  part of an organization which I shall call " the great  world organization for the mental disarmament of  the nations".
32,7 For our Constitution states that wars begin  in the minds of men. Therefore we are in fact an  organization for disarmament, in other words an  organization for peace, ‘
32,8 I do not understand how there can be any  distinction between the United Nations and Unesco  from the point of view of disarmament or any other  movement for the promotion of peace, The United  Nations deals with the political aspect, whilst we  deal with that of education, science and culture,  Therefore, in the United Nations, it 1s possible to  fight for peace with other arms, with other instru-  ments, with other media. But in Unesco also, it is  not only our right but our duty to fight for peace and  disarmament.
32.9 With regard to the admission of any nation to  bur Organization I, on behalf of a small nation - a  mimerically small nation, although it has great moral  resources and is today in the centre of the international  scen? - on behalf of my Government and on behalf of  the Cuban people, I can and must say that Cuba opens  its arms to all the nations of the world and that we  cannot, in this respect, concelve of any reserves or  exceptions of any kind, This Organization can be an  international organization only if it accepts all the  peoples of the earth, I believe that, in saying this,  I am expressing the very spirit of the proposals  which gave rise to this debate.
32,10 I am surprised that such obvious facts can  divide us but, since this division does exist, I only  want to appeal to delegates to consider these problems  precisely from the point of view of the lofty ideals of  Unesco - a universal organization created for peace,  to work through education, science and culture for  the good of mankind, without excluding anyone, thus  giving effect to the principle which a great Spanish-  American summed up in these words: "Respect for  the rights of others means peace, and peace alone  can ensure the future of the world".  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H,E. Mr. Tran Huu The, Head of the  delegation of Viet-Nam.
34.1 Mr. TRAN HUU THE (Viet-Nam) (Translation  from the French):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf  of the delegation of Viet-Nam and in compliance with  the President's suggestion, I should like to be brief  and restrict my remarks to the question of China. If  I am not mistaken, the two other problems raised  here should be considered and resolved by the  General Committee before being submitted to the  plenary meeting.
34.2 As I said, then, I shall confine my remarks to  the problem of China and, more particularly, to  procedure. At the second plenary meeting of this  session, it was decided, by means of a vote, to   PLENARY  recognize the present representation of China, This  being so, the delegation of Viet-Nam considers that  a negative decision has already been taken on the  question of the representation of the Central People's  Government of the People's Republic of China, In  any event, the consideration of this question is  {incompatible with the acceptance of the credentials  of the present Chinese delegation by the General  Conference, What is certain, and very serious, is  the fact that the mere inclusion of this item on the  agenda, bearing fn mind the decision already taken  to admit the present delegation of China, presupposes  the possibility of the existence of two Chinas, It is  clear that this last problem, which is a purely  political one, should not be debated by Unesco.
35, The PRESIDENT {Translation from the French):  I call upon Mr. Malinski, of the delegation of  Rumania.
36.1 Mr, MALINSKI (Rumania) (Translation from  the Russian):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, I shall be  very brief and shall dwell only on a few questions,  Yesterday, the Rumanian delegation listened with the  closest attention to the speeches made at the opening  of this Conference, and what we heard encouraged us  to think that the Conference's work would proceed  harmoniously and successfully.
36.2 The message read out today from Mr,  Khrushchev, Head of the Soviet Government, whose  outstanding services in the noble cause of defending  peace have long been acclaimed by progressive  opinion throughout the world, has given us tremendous  moral support in the performance of our task, We  had gained the impression that the present Conference  has a clear perspective and a definite approach;  today, however, we have come up against a number  of obstacles of a so-called procedural nature.
36,3 The Rumanian delegation fully supports the  Soviet delegation's proposals and the Cuban delega-  tion's proposal, It has already expressed its opinion  concerning the representation of China. It might be  said that the march of history itself has placed  this {tem on the agenda, yet our Organization alone
13 still unable to include it as an agenda item and  successfully resolve it,
36,4 As to the question of colonialism, Unesco,  like any other organization, can contribute to some  extent or other to progress and the forward march  of history. We rejoice at the partial successes  which Unesco has already achieved in this matter,  and consider that it does not become it to stay put on  the road of historical evolution and stand in the way  of progress,
36.5 Our delegation's object, in making this  declaration, is to contribute to the success of our  Conference's work and hence to the development of  culture and the consolidation of world peace.
37. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H.E, Mr, Sinofmer{, Head of the  Albanian delegation.
38.1 Mr. SINOIMERI (Albania) (Translation from  the French):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, I have the  MEETINOS UI  honour, on behalf of the delegation of the People's  Republic of Albania, to state that it warmly supports  the proposal of the Soviet Union to adopt the resolution  concerning the liquidation of colonialism througiout  the world, .
38.2 I also support the request for the inclusion on  the agenda of the Cuban proposal to condemn any  State which attempts to interfere in the affairs of  another State on account of wide economic, social or  cultural divergences between them.
38.3 The delegation of the People's Republic of  Albania considers that the restoration of the legiti-  mate rights of the People's Republic of China in  Unesco is a matter of vital importance and should be  the subject of serious study by our Organization, in  order that this urgent problem may be solved in a just  fashion. Its solution will greatly help to strengthen  our Organization and contribute to the attainment of  its noble ends. It will also assist us considerably in  accomplishing our main task, which is to safeguard  and consolidate world peace.
38.4 Our delegation considers that the non-partici-  pation of the People's Republic of China does our  Organization grave harm, narrows its field of action  to a very marked degree and, as a result, deprives  Unesco of every possibility of achieving its lofty aims,
38.5 Unesco is a world-wide international organiza-  tion, in which every sovereign State on earth sub-  scribing to the humanitarian ends it is pursuing  should be represented. Otherwise, the Organization  can never be considered universal.
38.6 This problem ia of prime importance, parti-  cularly as it is a case of the People's Republic of  China, which has a population of 670 million.
38.7 This is not the first time that the General  Conference has considered the question of restoring  to the People's Republic of China its legitimate rights  in Unesco. Today, the place which lawfully belongs  to the People's Republic of China 18 occupied by the  puppet Chiang Kai-shek, who was rejected by the  Chinese people over eleven years ago and has found  asylum on the island of Taiwan, under the protection  of the guns of the imperialists of the United States of  America who have occupied this island which is part  of Chineae territory.
38.8 The fact that the People's Republic of China is  not represented in Unesco is one of the most serious  mistakes that our Organization has yet made, a  flagrant violation of international law and the funda-  mental principles of Unesco. .
38.9 Our delegation considers that the main respon-  sibility for this must be laid at the door of the  Government of the United States of America which,  by every kind of intrigue, blackmail, pressure and  slander, has managed to bend Unesco to its will.
38.10 The delegation of the People!s Republic of  Albania fully supports the proposal of tha delegation  of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics with regard  to the representation of China in Unesco and, for its  part, urges that the " Chiang Kal-shekist" usurpers,  who represent no one, be immediately expelled from  our Organization and that the authentic representatives  of the Chinese people, the representatives of the People's  Republic of China, of the only legitimate government of  China, be given their rightful place. This must be done  immediately, for the true representatives of China  ought to have been occupying this place for a long time.   It PLENARY
38,11 China was one of the founder States of both  the United Nations and Unesco, The Chinese people  in revolt drove out their foréign oppressors, the  American imperialists and their lackeys, the Chiang  Kai-shek clique, and set up a people's government,  thus taking their fate into their own hands. To start  a revolution, to change a reactionary régime and  install a democratic people's government in a country  is the internal affair of that country and no State can  interfere without ruthlessly violating the most  elementary principles of international law,
38.12 Today, as everyone knows, there is only one  legitimate government in China, which enjoys the  deepest sympathy and the widest and firmest possible  support of the entire Chinese people. This govern-  ment is that of the People’s Republic of China, with  its capital at Peking.
38.13 This genuinely deriocratie government, the  expression of the will of tie Chinese people, exer-  cises its authority over tlie whole of Chinese terri-  tory, with the exception cf the Chinese island of  Taiwan occupied by the Ainerican imperialists,  There is a well-known principle to the effect that a  change in political and social régime cannot and  should not affect the status of à Member State of  Unesco. Why, in the case of China, are attempts  being made to adopt à different atiltude, contrary to  the basic, principle whereby the right to represent a  country at the international level devolves upon the  government in charge of that country? The cause of  the ruthless violation of this basic right and of the  fundamental principles of our Organization is easy to  discover. For it is common knowledge that the  United States of America has adopted and is still  adopting an openly hostile attitude to the People's  Republic of China.
38.14 The United States of America is conducting  an aggressive policy with regard to the great People's  Republic of China, The American imperialists are  occupying Taiwan and other Chinese islands by force.  They are interfering in the most cynical way in the  domestic affairs of China, instigating and committing  provocative acts against its territorial sovereignty  and {ts national unity.
38.15 The United States of America has created,  against the People's Republic of China, a whole  system of aggression, comprising more particularly  the notorious SEATO bloc, that military treaty ...  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Although I think that everything can be said in our  assembly, 1 also think that there are ways and ways  of saying it and that certain expressions should be  excluded from our debates.
40.1 Mr. SINOIMERI (Albania) (Translation from  the French):  The United States of Arnerica has created, against  the People's Republic of China, a whole system of  aggression, comprising more particularly the  notorious SEATO bloc, that military treaty concluded  with Japan and other countries. The opposition of  the United States to the restoration of the legitimate  rights of the People's Republic of China, both in the  United Nations and in Unesco, is an integral part of  this policy of interference, provocation and aggression.  Our delegation strongly condemns all these intrigues ‘  MEETINGS  of the imperialists of the United States of America  and their partners, as it condemns the American  theory of two Chinas, There is only one China, one  and indivisible: it ig the People's Republic of China,  a great Socialist State, a nember of the Socialist  camp, a very powerful State, without the participation  of which no problem, political or otherwise, can be  properly solved.
40.2 Our delegation also sirongly condemns the  base slandering by the imperialists and their lackeys  of the peaceful intentions of the People's Republic of  China,  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French};  If you continue in this strain, Sir, I shall be com-  pelled to ask you to stop. In an assembly like this,  where culture 18 the keynote, I should like us all to  make it a rule to refrain from using language that  may hurt anyone's feelings, That seems to me to be  of fundamental importance, and I should very much  like everyone to abide by this rule.
42,1 Mr. SINOIMERI (Albania) (Translation from  the French):  * Mr. President, these are facts, Iam giving you  facts, I am conveying to you the attitude of my dele-  gation, Allow me, Mr. President, to finish what 1  want to say. Everyone is aware of the peaceful policy  adopted by the People's Government of China. Until  now, the People's Republic of China has established  diplomatic relations with 25 States, it enjoys trade  relations with nearly 90 countries and cultural  relations with the overwhelming majority of countries  in most parts of the world, It is constantly streng-  thening its friendly relations with neighbouring  countries, as can be seen by the quick solution of its  frontier problems with Burma and by the fact that it  has signed treaties of friendship with Burma, Nepal  and Afghanistan.
42.2 The People's Republic of China, firmly sup-  porting the disarmament proposals of the Soviet  Union, has in its turn taken important meaaures to  eliminate the threat of war and to strengthen peace.  Cne of these was the recent proposal of the President  of the Council of State of the People's Republic of  China, Chou en Lai, concerning the conclusion of a  reciprocal friendship and non-aggression treaty  among the countries of Asia and, more particularly,  among the countries bordering on the Pacific -  including the United States of America - with a view  to delivering this region from any threat of atomic  warfare.
42,3 This proposal is of special importance for  peace, both in that region and throughout the world,  Moreover, we are all familiar with the constructive  co-operation of the People's Republic of China in  drawing up the principles of peaceful coexistence of  countries with different social systems, and with the  part it played at the Bandung Conference.
42.4 Finally, we are all familiar with the important  contribution made by the People's Republic of China  towards the achievement of an armistice agreement  in Korea and Indo-China, All this shows, with a  clarity that no slander can obscure, that the People's  Republic of China has always carried out, and contin- »  ues to do so, a policy aimed at safeguarding and  strengthening world peace, The People's Republic of
78   PLENARY  China has become and still is à factor of the first  importance for the maintenance of world peace and  security. Its whole attitude is in perfect harmony  with the alms of our Organization, To close the  doors of Unesco to the People's Republic of China  means cutting off artificially a quarter of the world's  population from the Organization's activities - which  {s absurd and inadmissible, In emphasizing the need  to give China its rightful place in Unesco, we have at  heart Unesco's interests, its prestige, its future  and its destiny,
42,5 There are people who falsely maintain that  Unesco cannot decide to admit the People's Republic  of China as long as it is not a member of the United  Nations. Well, gentlemen, by what right has the  Federal Republic of Germany the status of a Member  State of our Organization? Perhaps it 1s because  Western Germany is becoming more and more a  breeding ground for war, a country in which Prussian  militarism 1s being reborn, where the Nazi generals  command the Bundeswehr, where Nazism, racialtsm  and anti-Semitism are incessantly growing? Perhaps  it is because the Federal Republic of Germany  belongs to the aggressive bloc of NATO, ‘presided  over by the United States of America? How can all  these contradictions be explained except by the policy  of discrimination the United States and its partners  are following towards the People's Republic of China  and how can we allow such a state of affairs to exist  without violating, in the most ruthless manner, the  very principles on which Unesco is based?
42.6 It is therefore natural to conclude that to deny  the People's Republic of China its legitimate rights  is equivalent to encouraging the imperialist aggres-  gors, to trampling on the sacred cause of peace, to  betraying openly the confidence that all nations  should have in Unesco, to transforming Unesco - an  organization for idealism and peace - into one res-  ponsible for covering up and justifying the intrigues  of those who want war and are preparing for it.
42,7 The People's Republic of China has not only  become a factor of prime importance, an essential  factor in international politics, but also a vital  factor for the further advancement of world science,  education and culture, The great Chinese people  have from time immemorial made a most valuable  contribution to human civilization, China is acknow-  ledged everywhere as one of the most important  cradles of culture and science the ‘vorld over.
42.8 However, the creative activity of this great  and talented people was, towards the middle of last  century, seriously hampered by the savage colonialist  oppression of the imperialists and the cliques in their  pay. Thanks to its stubborn, heroic struggle under  the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party - a  struggle which lasted for some decades - against the  imperialists and the Kuomintang clique of Chiang  Kai-shek, the Chinese people burst the bonds of  slavery and regained freedom and independence in
1949, But the People's Government inherited a past  of economic and cultural underdevelopment, the  result of looting and the reactionary and inhuman  policy of the imperialists and the ruling cliques of the  country, who had always been in the pey of the imperi-  alists. Thus, in 1949, over 90% of the Chinese  population was illiterate, A fine example of the  civillzing work done by the imperialists in China, to  MEETINGS
79  HI  mention only the cultural aspect! But a nation which  was able to resist both foreign and national oppressors  and which, through its heroic struggle, was able to  eject them once and for all, lacked neither the energy  nor the wisdom to embark on the course of economic  and cultural development aad to make up the age-old  leeway imposed upon it by its bitter enemies.
42,9 I do not wish to mention here all the enormous  strides that the Chinese people ...  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French);  I must ask you, Sir, to confine yourself to the  agenda and to conclude.
44.1 Mr, SINOIMERI (Albania) (Translation from  the French):  I do not wish to mention here all the enormous  strides that the Chinese people, under the leadership  of their People's Government, have made, and are  continuing to make, in the spheres of industry, agri-  culture, ete. Everyone knows about that and even the  enemies of China are forced to admit it. I only want  to dwell on some aspects of the advances made by  China in science, culture and education since the  republic was established on 1 October 1949. After  throwing off the yoke of oppression, the Chinese  nation, under the leadership of its Government,  mobilized its forces completely and has made out-  standing progress towards a cultural revolution.
44.2 In the last eleven years, over a million  illiterates have learned to read and write. In the
1958-1959 school year, there were more than 810,000  university students, twice as many as in 1947, when  the universities of China had their highest enrolment  of students before the revolution; there were also
12,900, 000 pupils attending secondary and technical  schools, i.e. 6.8 times more than in 1946, which  held the record for the number of secondary school  pupils in old China. At present, over 80% of the  school age population attends school regularly. With  regard to culture, over 740 forms of dramatic art, of  a broadly popular nature, have been listed and  modernized.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I must request you, Sir, to conclude fairly soon,  in view of the time. Many delegates have obligations  that they would like to fulfil.
46. Mr. SINOIMERI (Albania) (Translation from  the French):  The Chinese cinema has developed considerably ...  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  We shall allow you three minutes to conclude.
48.1 Mr. SINOIMERI (Albania) (Translation from  the French):  The Chinese cinema has also developed consider-  ably this year. In China, literary works of a high  ideological and artistic standard are published. Out-  standing works of world literature have been trans-  lated. With regard to health, China now has 390, 000  health centres, In other words, 107 times as many  as there were on the eve of its liberation,
48.2 Results of this kind, secured in record time,  can only be achieved in countries with a democratic   i  people's government, which is bound to its people  and serves it whole-heartedly. -
48,3 How then is it possible to contest the legiti-  mate rights of a nation which would make a tremen-  dous contribution to the work of our Organization?  These are all the reasons which prompted our  delegation to vote against the report of the  Credentials Committee,
48,4 Our delegation once again wishes to emphasize  its opposition to the decision of the Credentials Com-  mittee, and to urge that the " Chiang Kai-shekist"  puppet be expelled immediately and that the genuine  representative of the Chinese people be invited to  take his seat without delay, Our delegation deeply  resents the injustice being done to the People's  Republic of China, which has conducted and is still  conducting a policy of peace. It strongly disapproves  of the hostile attitude of the American delegation,  and will continue to disapprove as long as the latter  maintains that attitude and this prablem is not  resolved In a just manner. In the light of the afore-  mentioned facts, the delegation of the People's  Republic of Albania calls for the immediate with-  drawal of the representatives of the "" Chiang Kai-  shekist" clique and the restoration of the right of the  true representatives of the Chinese people to adhere  to our Organization, i.e. the representatives of the  Government of the People's Republic of China.
40,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that you will agree,  in view of the time, to the adjournment of the dis-  cussion until the beginning of this afternoon's meeting.  But, before closing, I should like your agreement  that we declare the list of speakers closed, The
80  PLENARY MEETINGS  representatives of Guatemala and Hungary are still  to be heard, If you agree, there will be no other  speakers on this item,
45,2 In order to relleve the tension a little, I  should like io give you an item of good news: Somalia  has carried out tie formalities required under the  Constitution for admission to Unesco and the Organi-  zation therefore now has 94 Member States, 1  formally welcome Somalia to our midst,
49.3 As we are a little behindhand with our work  and as we are coming to the substance of the agenda  of this Conference, we can, if you agree, arrange  for the Nominations Committee to meet at 3 p,m,  This committee, as you know, comprises the heads  of all delegations, and must submit to the General  Conference its proposals for the appointment of the  next President of the General Conference and the 15  Vice-Presidents, since you agreed this morning to  raise the number of Vice-Presidents to that figure.  To save time, we might resume the session while  the Nominations Committee ia still meeting. We  shall also have the pleasure of hearing two speakers  who have requested an opportunity of addressing the  General Conference, namely the Minister of Educa-  tion of the Republic of Mali, and His Excellency the  Head of the Malagasy delegation. If you agree, we  shall therefore listen to these two speakers, followed  by the other two speakers who are still on the list,  after which we shall have to decide on the agenda  items at issue.
49,4 Does the Conference agree to these proposals?  They are adopted,
49,5 The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m.