25 November 1960, at 3,40 p.m,  President; Mr. Akale- Work ABTE- WOLD (Ethiopia)  CONTENTS  General discussion of the Reports of the Director-General  (conjinued) . ...  GENERAL DISCUSSION OF THE REPORTS OF THE  DIRECTOR-GENERAL (continued)
1. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French}:  Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is open.  Before we resume the general discussion, I call upon  H.E. Mr. Matsui, Chairman of the Credentials Com-  mittee,
2, Mr. MATSUI (Japan), Chairman of the Creden-  tials Committee, (Translation from the French):  Mr, President, conforming to the decision taken  earlier, Iam pleased to inform you that Saudi Arabia  has today, 25 November, presented credentials, which  are in order, to seat a delegate at the present session  of the General Conference. These credentials are  signed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
3.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  The Conference takes note of this statement by the  Chairman of the Credentials Committee.
3.2 From now onwards the delegate of Saudi Arabia  ia admitted to vote in plenary session, as well as in  all the Commissions and Commitices (* the Organiza-  tion.
3.3 We now resume the general discussion, I call  upon H,E, Mr, Talba Malla, Head of the delegation  of Cameroun,
4.1 Mr. TALBA MALLA (Cameroun) (Translation  from the French):  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, from the  first meetings of this eleventh session of the General  Conference, we have realized that this is a memor-  able occasion In the history of Unébéo, for it is the  first timé that the young African States have taken  part in the work of this assembly, Other delegates  have already sald how happy and proud these young  States were, and how enthusiastically they associate  themselves with Unesco's great ideal: the spread of  education, science and culture. Cameroun is a  country where old and new cultures meet; where the  task of organizing ite education, already well advanced,  contimies unremittingly;. and where experiments, at  once bold and reasonable, have enabled it to adapt its  primary teaching tothe exigencies of Africanlite. And  Camerounhas seen in its recent admission to membership  , 304  [IEEE SE S  SE 8 4 001 0000005 0 2 1  of Unesco and in the presence of its delegation here  the finest fruit cf its recently acquired independence.
4.2 May it be permitted to the delegate of one of  these young States, taking part for the first time in  these discussions, to make an observation, and a  request to your assembly?
4,3 Youare, I am sure, full of indulgence towards  our inexperience. You have also given us a place in  the working parties, even if we did not ask for it in  time nor in the proper form. Yet we have felt and  still at times feel, some uneasiness. We have  wondered whether the great powers quite realized  the matérial and moral effort required of a small  State of limited means, poor in technicians and in  specialiste, to send and maintain a delegation in  Paris, for the whole month ôf the General Conference.
4.4 Be assured in any case, ladies and gentiémen,  that the delegates of Cameroun, while they are proud  to represent their country, are very well aware of  the effort involved. They hope therefore that their  presence here may be as profitable as possible, not  only for their own country, but for all the nations,  since the goal of Unesco is the sharing of science and  culture. Theyhavebeen painfully surprisedtobe faced  sometimes with problems that were beyond them, with  discussions on matters which they were either qualified  nor empowered to debate, in short, with political prob-  lems that belonged elsewhere, and for which it was  clearly impossible to find a solution within the frame-  work of Unesco, To their regret they had on those  occasions the impression of wasting their time.
4.5 Here then, Mr. President, ladies and gentle-  men, ‘is my request. The Camerounian delegation  desires that other delegations maintain discussion  wit/dn the limits defined for thé United Nations  Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization,  In this way we shall best serve our common ideal -  peace and understanding among nations.
5. ‘The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French}:  I call upon H,É. Mr. Guillaumat, Head of the  delegation of France,
6.1 Mr. GUILLAUMAT (France) (Translation from  the French):  Mr. President and delegates. This eleventh  session of the General Conference will mark an   PLENARY  {mportant stage in the life of our Organization, Thoge  who witnessed the birth of Unesco, countries like  France which have continued to furnish their contri-  bution in both men and ideas, are perfectly well aware  ofthatfact, No matter how profitable the sum of  Unesco's efforts may have been so far, the admission  to membership of newly created sovereign States is  going to impart a new trend and character to its work.  As was said of the year that is ending, the Conference  that has just opened will in the first place be that of  Africa.
6,2 All of us - and often for opposite reasons -  have stressed the outstanding évents of recent months,  which I may define as the appearance on the interna-  tional stage of an entire continent, Unesco has  already signalized this appearance by choosing as the  President of our General Conference the delegate of  Ethiopia, one of the oldest of African nations, which  has given so many proofs of its attachment to spiritual  values, .
6.3 It is with this thought in mind that I am happy  to greet, among the new members of the organiza-  tion, the African States of French culture, which have  today become independent in full agreement and  friendship with France after a peaceful evolution  which we have always supported and facilitated, If  these States have decided of their own free will to  ask France to continue to assure for them a privileged  position in education, science and culture, surely  they must have found in this co-operation a benefit  which they themselves are in the best situation to  appreciate? The calibre of the distinguished repre-  sentatives they have sent aniong us, some of them  men with the highest degrees from French untversi-  ties, their professional and intellectual worth and  their sense of humanity sufficiently testify to this.  For proof I need only cite the high quality of the  speeches pronounced in this very butlding by the  Heads of the delegations of Dahomey, Mall and  Senegal, whom it is a matter of great pleasure for  me to thank here in the name of France. These  countries have pondered Andre Gide's thought: "To  know how to get free is nothing: the hard thing is to  know how to live free", France declares with pride  that they know how to live free,
6.4 That, ladies And gentlemen, is my countiy's’  reply to those who, even in this assembly, seek to  raise the spectre of colonialism. Let us speak plainly.  If by mention of colonialism the intention ia to de-  nounce the domination of man by man, the oppression  of minorities, racial, religious or {ideological dis-  crimination, who would dare deny that France has  been through centuries, revolutions and wars the  champion of liberty, equality and fraternity? Who,  indeed, unless it is those who wish to stifle the groans  of nations which their hypocritical imperialism holds  captive?
6.5 If, on the other hand, if is the work which  France has accomplished beyond her boundaries which  is in question, then my country can stand with head  erect and a clear conscience, This work has formed  and developed nations like these 14 republics which  in the single year of 1060 France will have led to  independence. I leave to these gentlemen whom we  have just welcomed here the tusk, not perhaps of  defending France's achievement but, much better, of  illustrating it.
6.6 Their présence, I feel sure, cannot fail to turfs.  our efforts in a more realistic direction. They will  cause our Organization to give their problems more  enlightened and thereby more efficacious attention,  They will induce us, even more than in the past, to  give Africa its rightful place in ous programmes and  plans. But also I know, they bring us their ideas,  the fruit of their experience and that deep faith which  they share with us in the principles of liberty, dig-  nity, and respect for man, on which Unesco is  founded, In this way our work instead of being  limited, as it was sometimes in danger of being, to  a definition of the broad lines of unilateral action  involving aid generously but injudiciously distributed  by the wealthy to the disinherited, will assume in all  the spheres which interest these new States - and  this is now the essence of our task - the character  of free and genuine co-operation, Its chances of  success will thus be considerably increased,
6,7 Nor do we wish other parts of the world - I am  thinking of South Asia and South America - to have  any fear lest the effort being made in those areas  may be interrupted, On the contrary, the fresh  resources now at our disposal should allow us to  increase that effort,
6.8 I think too that the presence of these young  States will help us to prevent Unesco from becoming  a political sounding board, which is not its function  and harms {ts authority and its efficiency. Our  colleague, Mr. Tachudi, Head of the delegation of  Switzerland, made some very important observations  in this connexion, coming as they do from a country  like his own, and I am in full agreement with them.  The French delegation, for its part, will do all it  can to prevent the General Conference from  degenerating, as some here seem to wish, into  polemics and demagogy. If we are to discuss politics  here, the French delegation would cite the maxim  of the historian Jules Michelet contained in his book  "The People" of 1840, "What is the first business  of politica? Education.‘ Thé second? Education,  And the third? Education", ‘’
6.8 Our Director-General, to whoin I pay special  tribute,’ hag reminded us of the growing importance,  among the tasks of the United Nations; of assistance  programmes to Member States, He has shown that  in this connexion education is a priority and an ir-  replaceable target, and Mr, Veroñèsé found causé  for satisfaction in that Unesco, thanks to the experi-  ence of the past fifteen years, is well fitted to play  this néw role, particularly in the literacy campaign,  which has a ‘high place on our agenda;
6,10 1 shou'd like to be both nore modest about  our Organization and more ambitious for the future  than is our Director-General, It would be dangerous  to let it be thought that we already dispose of suffi-  client resources to help effectively all peoples who  turn for ald to Unesco to leave ignorance behind, to  educate masses of children Increasing in numbers  from year to year and ever more eager for know-  ledge and scientific training, or to transform,  through adult education and all forms of popular  culture, the human environment in which these  generations are growing up:
6.11 France has exceptional experience in this  field, It {s maintaining beyond its frontiers nearly
20,000 professors and teachers, that is to say,   XIX PLENARY  more than any other country in the world, It has  opened wide the doors of its universities to the young  foreign States, and I am deeply. grateful to the Head  of the Tunisian delegation for the tribute he paid to  this co-operation. France therefore knows what  effective action costs in terms of men and money. It  knows also the difficulties of adapting present methods  to the needs of the world of the year 2,000, pressing  though these are,
6.12 France does not believe that it is enough to  call world conferences or even to make claims on  generosity in order to resolve this problem, Under  pressure of events, the Secretariat has had to take  the initiative and to act in concert with the United  Nations, That is proof enough that Unesco is a vital  organization, which lives not in the clouds, but in  reality, and that this reality, perpetually changing,  may lead to the search for new forms of action, For  today we must renew our action, Neither the Special  Fund, nor the Expanded Programme of Technical  Assistance, nor the methods of the OPEX projects,  nor the still undefined resources of the International  Development Agency, rich as they appear in promises,  can in their present or potential volume fulfil the  demands which even the simplest provisional calcula-  tion shows to lle ahead. ‘
6.13 If, for example, we desire that the school  population in forty years may be comparable over all  the earth to what it is today in Europe or in the United  States, we should have, in two generations, to train  more than 25 million teachers, in addition to present  staff, and build more than three million new schools -  and that on condition that the world's population does  not increase. If the population continues to increase  at the present rate, those figures would have to be  doubled, In the face of such a task, the means at  the disposal of our Unesco should make us feel very  modest,
6.14 Yet the French delegation believes we can  and must cherish ambition,
6.15 Here I call to mind the memory of a man who  could have revealed to you the prospects that may  lie ahead for our Organization. I refer to Gaston  Berger, removed suddenly by death while still at the  height of his powers. I cannot better bear witness to  our fidelity to his memory nor better thank all those  who here and throughout the world have paid tribute  to his personality, than by recalling the plan which  Gaston Berger was to present in the name of France  and with which hig name will remain associated,
6.16 The campaign against illiteracy and for access  to culture by all men cannot be satisfied any longer  with traditional methods, We should not give these  up, but we should, by basic research in depth, find  new and enormously effective meana in telecommunica-  tions, collective information media and spatial re-  search, the weapons in our battle against ignorance.  Our ambition should keep pace with scientific and  technical progress in the world of men, Far from  considering such progress as a danger or a challenge  to our values, an organization like ours should see  in it the harbinger of decisive human progress.
6.17 It seemed to us that such an inquiry, which  France is urging Unesco to undertake, could be  carried.out only under the supervision of an Executive  Board on which those States most directly concerned  with its results were more strongly representad.
306  MEETINGS  The French delegation has therefore asked for an  increase in the number of seats on the Board, to  allow of collaboration with the countries of Africa  and Asla,
6.18 The forms of collaboration with Member  States, even the manner in which the Organization  might offer advice to these latter, is the second point  about which the Director-General consults us in his  report, On this point, too, I should like at the out-  get of the Conference to express the opinion of the  delegation of France,
6,19 We have always thought that perhaps the most  valuable characteristic of Unesco was the rôle which  the National Commission for Unesco plays in each  of the Member States by having - under Article VII  of the Constitution - responsibility for ensuring the  greatest possible co-operation of its public and  private bodies in the work of Unesco. The growth  of these National Commissions seems to us the most  realistic and effective way of creating between Unesco  and the Member States a degree of understanding  and of ensuring better appreciation of needs, plans  and results,
6,20 It does not, on the other hand, seem desir-  able to us to accredit to the States missions from  Unesco other than those which have, at the request  of the States themselves, a definite plan of technical  assistance to implement, Regionalization is most  useful when it results in bringing together the repre-  sentatives of States and, better still, of National  Commissions, with a background prepared by the  Organization, and consulting them on their néeds  and on the ways in which they will co-operate. The  recent conferences in Bangkok and Addis Ababa,  and those which are planned in Khartoum and Karachi,  are good examples of meetings which have undeniable  advantages at the regional level, But, beyond this,  the dangers of the dissipation of effort would very  soon have to be faced,
6.21 Our essential objective is not to increase  each State's resources in relation to its responsi-  bilities towards its citizens. It is to work out, with  the help of all and for the benefit of edch, new  methods that are continually being adapted to our  changing and precarious world, in order that the  ideals of Unesco may thrive and progress, This  purpose demands concentration, not only in a formal  sense, but a real concentration of Unesco's resources  on projects of the broadest possible scope.
6.22 Unesco's business is not to distribute bags  of rice from the intellectual storehouse, but to teach  each person to select the seeds, Its action can be  effective only if its work is methodical,” I should  like here to mention the clear and courageous speech  of our colleague, Sir David Eccles, He pointed out  the conditions that must exist if this struggle against  illiteracy is to be waged effectively. It is not enough  to vote credits, and find new sources of finance.  More is needed, Here in Paris in the Secretariat  we must get the experts together, teachers in parti-  cular, who will prepare plans, Lack of preparation  in countries receiving international aid may lead to  waste, which of itself might create much confusion.  We are therefore firmly set against any plan which  would, to the detriment of the permanent objectives  of sclentific educational and cultural co-operation,  distribute the resources of the Organization among   PLENARY  a multitude of projects put up from day to day by Unesco  representatives attachedtothe governments of States.
6.23 The fundamental fact, so happily stressed by  the Director-General, is that education is now acknow-  ledged universally to be a key factor in economic and  social development, ! might even say it is thé only  truly democratic factor, the only one compatible with  respect for human rights; and in the years to come it  will lead all States to devote to education an increased  portion of their budget. ;
6.24 Certainly the cost will come high, It will  weigh heavily on the resources of these States. Per-  haps it will encourage them to make changes, to seek  a new and better balance between the charges of the  State, to cut their unproductive expenses somewhat,  on armaments, for example, so that these creative  Investments for the future can prosper in the cause  of peace and progress among men, "Why don't we  pool a part of our scientific, technical and economic  resources?’ General de Gaulle, President of the  French Republic, suggested last year to all the  nations of Europe, "why don't we pool some of our  trucks, ships and planes to overcome poverty, to  activate resources and help the work of lesa deyeloped  peoples?’ Such could be, ought to be, the inspiring  thought of our Organization and, if only Unesco can suc-  ceedto some extent in makingit appreciatedeverywhere,  in making its importance and urgency understood,  that success will remain one of the Organization's  main claims to our gratitude,
6.25 Butbeyondits taskof constantly stressing the  importance of this objective, Unesco can do more to help  Member States toachieve it, Itcan- andIcome backto  the point in conclusion - concentrate {ts resources on the  discovery of modern, even revolutionary, methods of  combating ignorance, illiteracy and prejudice.
6.26 The French delegation is convinced that these  means are today within the capacity of the sciéntists.  Our draft resolution proposes to give to scientists  the chance to employ them, then to train the men who  in all Member States will have the task of applying  them. Foi this it has in mind certain immediate and  economical steps that could be taken, and the gradual  creation of the necessary instruments of research,  co-operation and training. If the draft is adopted,  the first meeting might take place, after the indispens-  able preparations as early as next Spring.
6.27 Is there a nobler ambition, in a world that is  meriaced by its own sclence, than to put this same  science at the service, not only of material progress,  but also of the flowering of the intelligence and the  training of minds? If we should fail in this task, how  should we be judged by all the States which are parti-  cipating for the first time in our General Conference?  The French delegation is sure that Unesco will reject  all appeals to vain political controversy and will  strengthen and justify the confidence which so many  peoples have in it throughout the world.
7. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I now call upon H.E, Mr, Mac Kay, Head of the  delegation of Argentina,’
8.1 Mr. MAC KAY (Argentina) (Translation from  the Spanish):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an  honour for me to express to delegates the opinion of
307  MEETINGS XIX  the Argentine National Commission for Unés(o - over  which I preside in my capacity of Minioter of Educa-  tion and Justice - on the Proposed Programme and  Budget for 1961-1962 and on the reports of the Director.  General submitted for considerationby this assembly,  The National Commission of Argentina, created only  two years ago, has an organic and functional struc-  ture similar to that of Unesco itself, Documents can  thus be analysed according to individual topics in  departments corresponding to each special subject,
8.2 In the first place, I should like to say that in  Argentina's view the proposed programme and budget  for the next two years shows a serious éffort to estab-  lish concrete goals for the work of Unesco and to  fix a system of priorities that have been rationally  worked out, In this respect it is proper to give  unanimous credit to the work accomplished by the  Director-General and his staff,
8.3 We also agre : that present circumstances re-  quire us to maintain a policy of concentration on  basic objectives, though the attainment of these ob-  jectives - within the framework of the general activi-  ties of the Organization - must not work to the  detriment 0! measures of direct assistance,’ whose  value has been proved time and time again in recent  years, A balance between these two forms of activity  is a major factor, which the Director-General  properly appreciated in his introductory speech,
8,4 Fortunately, these proposals will receive  practical help from resources that exceed Unesco's  limited budget: aid from the Special Fund and the  proposed collaboration with the Inter-American  Development Bank and the International Development  Association, In that connexion it will be useful to  urge the participation of our Organization in the  giving of technical advice to these two international  institutes of credit and finance, ’
8.5 In the Proposed Programme and Budget for
1961-1962 several points represént a departure from  previous practice. For example, the decision to  give help to teaching in Tropical Africa, some of  whose countries are now honouring this assembly  with their sovereign presence. We trust that a pro-  vision of such decisive importance to the cultural  development of these new independent States will  not affect the aid granted by Unesco to the Latin  American countries for 1960-1961,
8.6 Another important aspect of the proposed  programme and budget of the Director-General refers  to the encouragement to be given to the oceanographic  sciences. Argentina attaches great importance to  this project, which implies an appreciation of methods  that are traditionally Mediterranean in character in  the development and provisioning of many zones,  and the Incorporation of the maritime litoral within  the economic and social activity of so many com-  munities. Latin America is particularly suitable  for this type of initiative, when it Is considered that  in many of our countriés the progress of the marine  sclences has been relatively slight.
8,7 It is also praiseworthy that Unesco is directly  interested in the preservation of works of art, which,  like the monuments of Nubia, constitute the cultural  heritage of a world extending far beyond their geo-  graphical situation.
8.8 Before referring to projects which are of  direct concern to Argentina, I should like to say   XIX PLENARY  one word about one or two earlier organizations  created with Unesco's assistance.
8.8 The Regional Mathematics Centre for Latin  America in Buenos Aires is in full swing and has  many fellowship holders from Argentina and other  Latin American countries, In the Ministry of Educa-  tion we have created a Department of Integral Plan-  ning of Education, which receives assistance from a  Unesco expert, As regards cultural matters, I am  happy to report on the invaluable assistance of  Unesco in setting up the International Documentation  Centre which is working in Buenos Aires. The send-  ing of experts, working material and a bibliography  has been very useful both to students and to the  different branches of the government that make  regular use of it. :
8.10 Turning to other fields, it is right to empha-  size the high technical level of achievement in the  recent Latin American Seminar on the Comparability  of Educational Statistics, held in the province of  Tucuman. At the moment, also in collaboration with  Unesco, arrangements are being made for a Seminar  on Library Planning,
8,11 The programme which Argentina aims at  achicving in cloge collaboration with Unesco covers  education, science and culture,
8.12 So far as education ts concerned, we are  interested in implementing the recommendations  formulated at the Third Meeting of the Intergovern-  mental Committee held in Mexico a short time ago:  for example, to conclude an international convention  on the status of teachers, a statute which already  exists In our country and regulates the entry and  promotion of teachers strictly according to examina-  tion, guarantees permanence of tenure, fixes salary  scales in accordance with the type of school and years  of service in the profession, and establishes pension  rights after twenty-five years of teaching irrespec-  tive of age. . .
8.13 We should also like to see the realization of  another proposal of the Mexico meeting: the creation  of Centres of Educational Documentation in order to  promote the exchange of educational information,  Our country has requested that one of these Centres  should be set up in Buenns Aires, .
8.14 As our delegate, the President of the National  Council of Education, has said, problems of teaching  in Latin America have many different aspects, In  some countries - our own among them - these prob-  lems are concerned less with eradicating illiteracy  or increasing the number of teachers than with  improving the quality of teachers and with the systema-  tic planning of school programmes at all levels of  education, Thus Argentina has,a special interest in  getting from Unesco as much educational assistance  as possible in matters of technique and the practice  of teaching methods. In my judgement these factors -  and also the attention being paid to post-primary  education - merit preferential consideration under  the Major Project on the Extension and Improvement  of Primary Education, even should it be necessary  to increase the Project's budget.
8,15 It is also worth stressing the importance  attaching to technical training in certain Member  States which like our own have transformed their  economy from & single-product system to one of  diversified production. Industry, and in general,  > 308  MEETINGS  all economic activity, has close ties with the teach-  ing of technical and vocational subjects in order that  every business can study and appreciate its own  efficiency and productivity.
8.16 In the scientific field, Argentina has made a  request to the Special Fund of the United Nations to  organize a Petroleum Institute which, among other  functions, will engage in a variety of research work  and will train technicians and personnel for employ-  ment in the oil industry. Our Government is deeply  interested in this project because it directly affects  a phase of the national development on which a great  part of Argentina's resources are now concentrated,
8,17 We consider too that the achievement of  balanced economic and social development is a basic  aim that cannot be postponed in view of the efforts  which many Latin American countries are making to  this end. We have asked Unesco to give priority in  helping to set up in Argentina a Centre of Advanced  Economic Studies, which will promote study and  research in all that concerns (conoriic development,  including the training of technicians in this field.
8.18 As regards cultural matters, we hope that  Unesco will also co-operate with our Government in  the organization of a seminar to bring up to date  textbooks in history, geography, literature and other  themes relative to the Eastern world, since  Argentina wishes to play an active part in the Major  Project on Mutual Appreciation of Eastern and  Western Cultural Values. We believe that the cul-  tural exchanges foreshadowed in the project are of  capital importance in strengthening international  understanding,
8.19 Lastly, I should like to remind delegates that  the Argentine National Commission for Unesco has  offered to be the host of two important meetings  which are down on the Calendar for 1961-1862; the  Third Conference of National Commissions of the  Western hemisphere, and the Fourth Meeting of the  Intergovernmental Consultative Committee on the  Extension and Improvement of Primary Education  in Latin America,
8.20 The Republic of Argentina welcomes the  entry to this Organization of nations which have  gained their independence in recent years. We have  a deep faith in the value of the drive and stimulus  which the new States can contribute. From a certain  point of view their situation is similar to that of  Latin America, The nations which make up the  Latin American community did not in the past -  despite their sovereign status - influence the decisions  affecting the contemporary world. That participa-  tion 18 today more than a wish of our countries. It  is also an assurance, shared by all peoples, that  their presence is a factor making for balance and  compensation amid the tensions which threaten  world peace.
8.21 1 think I interpret the general feeling, not  alone of my own country, when I say that cultural  intercourse is an indispensable element if interna-  tional coexistence fs to progress from a vague  aspiration to a genuine reality, In the last resort  all our hopes are centred on the heart of man, his  capacity for love, his respect for the dignity of each  one of his fellows. When men and women combine  to promote culture, science and education - at a  time when self-styled "realists" are questioning   PLENARY MEETINGS  these values - when we see that none the less the lives  of many individuals are rooted in things spiritual,  our striving seems neither vain nor superfluous.
8.22 We are convinced that the interchange of men  and cultures is a necessary adjunct to the securing  of the peaceful coexistence to which we aspire, We  are sure that when people are united in work of a  spiritual kind, many human values assert themselves  which lessen tension and re-establish men's natural  desire to communicate one with another, More than  that, it is then that the desire tc live in peace and  good fellowship finda its most genuine expression.  For peace is felt as a state inherent in our human  condition and not as a truce of ¢circumstance to be  used to increase mistrust and the spirit of negation,
8.23 We have the right to doubt the pacific inten-  tions of any institution or government which has not  proved its devotion to liberty and to respect for the  dignity of man, We have the right to doubt whether  the search for peace is sincere when, although it is  invoked in speech and illustrated in allegory, every  possibility of intercourse is opposed, and when the  right to maintain religious beliefs, freedom of speech  and attachment to family life is denied, these values  being replaced by the shifting dictates of an opportun-  ist policy which diminishes and denies the human  being.
8.24 Argentina maintains that the liberty of the  individual and of the nation is an essential weapon in  the fight for international peace and solidarity. It  expresses its conviction that ever-closer attachment  to the work of science, education and culture is the  surest way of strengthening the cause of a just peace.
8.25 Our preoccupation with the defence of cultural  values is based on experience of history and on our  devotion to a philosophy of freedom, We rejoice at  sharing the hard tasks this Assembly sets before us.  In its performance, the contribution of my country  wil! Increase within the limits of the means at its  disposal, and in proportion as our citizens acquire  knowledge of the immense effort which Unesco is  expending, May God help us to conduct ourselves  with humanity and understanding, and to create a  world in which the nations can speak to one anothe>  with confidence and free of fear.
8. The PRESIDENT (Tranglation from the French):  I call upon H,E, Mr, Bonifaz Jijon, Head of the  delegation of Ecuador.
10,1 Mr, BONIFAZ JIJON (Ecuador) (Translation  from the Spanish):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, in the name  of the Republic of Ecuador I am honoured to present  to the eleventh session of the General Conference of  Unesco both the friendly greetings of my country and  the hopes that this meeting of civilized nations, seek-  ing new horizons in education, science and culture,  will agree on resolutions to increase the welfare of  humanity, to encourage it along the path of progress  and to intensify its spiritual efforts to pursue peace  and banish war,
10,2 Today, when new African States have become  members of Unesco, paying warm tribute to their  background of French culture, Ecuador, as a free  and democratic people, takes pleasure in extending  to them fraternal greetings. Ecuador, so closely
309  XIX  linked historically with French science and culture,  declares that this act of international import confirms  once more the feeling of world solidarity, These new  ties of friendship will doubtless serve inthe defence of  civilization and for the conquest of new benefits for  mankind, In this task which falls upon all peoples  and all nations the mission of Unesco 18 fundamental,
10.3 Ecuador, a country respectful of the rights  of man and a champion of spiritual values, today  asks international organizations, as it asked them  yesterday, for help in its unfaltering support of those  who are disseminating culture. The six universities  and the two polytechnic schools in the country, the  fruit of its own efforts, are not sufficlent to cope  with the popular demand for culture, In submitting  to you our needs; Mr, President, my country wil.  be setting out problems which are fully consonant  with the high alms of our Organization,
10,4 The delegation of Ecuador warmly supports  the proposed programme and budget presented by  the Director-General for the consideration of this  assembly. There 18 no doubt that in its drafting the  Director-General has been inspired by deep humani-  tarian considerations, as is shown in a programme  of primary education of the highest importance for  the countries of Africa, Asia, Arabic-speaking  States, and those of Latin America,
10.6 The peoples of the world are anxious to  develop their natural resources to obtain a better  life, For that technicians are required, In the  chapters of the programme relative to education,  mags communication, and the social and natural  sciences, there are concrete plans for making a  vigorous start in this direction,
10.6 The peoples of the world wish to live in peace,  Itisa pleasure tous to see that projects such as the  Mutual Appréciation of Eastern and Western Cultural  Values and International Exchange in the fields of  education, sciènce and culture have been conceived  with this ideal in mind. .
10.7 The world is characterized by rapid and often  radical change, It is aware of its houndless needs  and of its inextinguishablé capacity to create in all  fields. The world is heading towards industrializa-  tion at a rate that cannot be halted and many times  when it seems that spiritual values are in imminent  danger of destruction, it is comforting and salutary  to note that Unesco continues to fulfil its lofty  mission, supported by the faith of its Member States  and the hopes placed in it by the nations.
10.8 The new programme of Unesco, Mr, President,  has the virtue of comforting our minds and ralsing  our hopes in international collaboration, Collabora-  tion is not only a matter of being organized, it is a  matter of help at the right time. It {s not merely a  question of helping certain countries, but of helping  the greatest possible number and those which are in  most need. Collaboration must be not only efficient,  but just, for if there i8 no justice there can and  should be no international collaboration,
10.9 In the course of the discussions on the pro-  gramme, my delegation has made some pertinent  observations, and I should like at this plenary meet-  ing to call your attention to the fact that Ecuador  has collaborated and is collaborating actively in the  Major Project on the Extension and Improvement of  Primary Education in Latin America.   xix PLENARY
10.10 We have an Associated Training School "San  Pablo del Lago" and we hope to see the "Juan  Montalvo" Training School changed into "The Train-  ing School Associated with the Major Project" in line  with resolutions taken during Unesco's last Seminar  in Quito. For this school the Government of Ecuador  intends to eréct a building that will be equipped on  up-to-date lines. The Government has also under-  taken to increasé the number of teachers and to build  hundreds of schools. Teachers! salaries have already  been substantially raised.
10.141 Collaburation between the Government of  Ecuador, Unesco and the Central Univéraity of Quito  has resulted in the creation and initial operation of  the Latin American Centre for Training in Journalism,  The Government and the Central University, realizing  the importance of this Centre, have decided to con-  struct a modern building for its use. In this matter  the contributions of Ecuador exceed those of Unesco  and for the period 1961-1962 the appropriations for  this Centre should be charged to Regional Aid under  the Participation programme and not to Ecuador's  quota. This quota under the Programme of Participa-  tion in the Activities of Member States should not be  affected by this appropriation. The Centre is In full  development, giving excellent information about its  work and holding out a promise of the best results,  hopes which are indeed shared by its founder,
10.12 Ecuador will support with enthusiasm any  measure making for the smoother working of the  Special Fund, The request for aid for the Polytechnic  School of Quito is being prepared and we hope that it  will be speedily approved. We believe it necessary  also that in turn the benefits of the Special Fund be  extended to the Polytechnic School of Guayaquil and  to the Technical University of Manabi. This trio of  higher technical institutes is basic to the development  of Ecuador, These Institutes are proving their worth  in three different parts of my country and, if Unesco'a  work is to be efficient, its aid should contribute to  their harmonious development. A Unesco expert is  now studying the neéds of the Quito Polytechnic and  it is much to be desired, Mr. Director-General,  that his mission be broadened 80 as to study, at least  in a general way, the needs of the Polytechnic of  Guayaquil and of the Technical University of Manabi,
10.13 I must mention, too, the help which Ecuador  has received from Unesco in study grants and -  fellowships. Several dozens of Ecuadoreans have  gone abroad to pérfect thelr knowledge, thanks to  Unesco's help, Most of them now hold important  positions in the country and they are all, practically  speaking, busy in their special spheres.
10.14 Ecuador deeply appreciates this assistance  and hopes that in the future it will be increased to  meet the country's multiple needs, Only well-trained  national technicians can work the transformation  which is necessary for Ecuador's future,
10.15 Asa contribution to the East- West Major  Project, I am happy to say that a series of lectures  have been organized in Quito under thé heading of  "The East-West Week". The bullétin reporting  these lectures has been listed for publication, and  we shall be glad {f Unesco gives us its assistance,  as we are sure that works of this kind contribute to.  international coexisténce. In this connexion should  be emphasized the work of the "Colegio 24 de Mayo",  x
310  MEETINGS  which is linked with the world network of "Experl-  mental Schools" and is applying the principles of  Education for international coexistence, Emphasis  should be laid too on the help of Unesco, thanks to  which the College has begun to make use of the  audio-visual laboratory, The work of the "Colegio
24 de Mayo" 18 an experiment of interest to the other  colleges In the country and also to the associated  experimental colleges of Unesco.
10.16 I cannot leave this exposition of the pro-  gramme for 1961-1962 without referring to the  Office of Unesco in the Western Hemisphere, My  country thinks the moment has come when its acti-  vities should be broadened. If Unesco wishes this  Office to fulfil its purpose, it stiould be given the  means necessary to achieve them, It should be re-  organized and its mission in Latin America more  clearly defined. The question of its decentralization  should bè studied,
10.17 In the fleld of the Natural Sciences various  projects hold our attention. Three of them are of  immediate concern to ua; the Charles Darwin  Biological Station in the Galapagos Islands; Seismo-  logical Research and the Project of the Pan-American  Observatory.
10.18 So far as the Charles Darwin Station is con-  cerned, the legal preliminaries with regard to the  Decree which will establish collaboration between the  Republic of Ecuador and Unesco are now completed.  The new location will be in the "Bahia of La Academia"  on the island of Santa Cruz. The Decree to which 1  refer, and a copy of which 1s now with the Secretariat,  {8 in two parts:
10,19 The first refers to the projection of terres-  trial species, poetically called "the living world of  evolution", into that fantastic world of the Enchanted  Isles, ahd of a maritime zone which at the same  time as providing a natural home for marine species  will help enormously in the protection of the Island  of Fernandina as a natural reserve,
10.20 In passing I must note that the staion's rôle  in marine biology would be of the highest importance  since, within the programme of oceanography, study  is being made of Humboldt's cold current, which  thus completes the work of the FAO expert on the  whales of the area. My delegation must press for  scientific studies, especially if they have a practical  and social application in improving the food supply  of the people of Ecuador, and solving the problem  of a cheap, anti-earthquake building.
10.21 The second part of.the Decree refers to the  setting up of an Ecuadorean Institute of Scientific  Research, whose work can be summed up in three  words: co-ordination, vigilance and co-operation  with national and foreign scientific institutes that  might be interested in the Galapagos Islands or in  the special position of our country along the line of  the Equator,
10.22 For example, in the Offices of the Coast  and Geodetic Survey in Washington, I had the honour  of discussing my proposal for a world-wide selamo-  logical network and the possibility of installing a seismo-  logical station - with particular reference to Ecuador -  onthe island of Santa Cruz, which wouldbe of vital  international importance and interest. I say of interna-  tional interest, because the island is situated about
600 miles from the coast of Ecuador and is therefore   PLENARY KEETINGS XTX  an important point of reference for the seismological  stations of Bogota, Quito, Huancayo and Las Chllenas,  which meet more or less on meridian 78. In these  conversations Itookthe liberty of suggesting that the  scientists and experts of Unesco should control the  instruments to be set up on the Charles Darwin  station of Galapagos.
10,23 Further, the seismological station of Santa  Cruz Island and that of Quito, both situated on the  Equator, suggested to the delegate of Ecuador the idea  of setting up, maybe with the help of Unesco and other  international organizations, important seismological  centres in the basin of the Amazon, on the Atlantic  coast of South America, on the Atlantic and Indian  coasts of Africa, and in Singapore. In thig way a  sort of seismological belt would be set up along the  Equator with great advantages to science and to the  study of the phenomenon,
10.24 I must point out that none of these projects  could be realized without Ecuador's firm confidence  in the scientific and international capacity of Unesco.
10.25 The third of the projects I mentioned relates  to the Pan-American Observatory, desired by the  Pan-American Institute of Geography and History,  The local conditions of a clear sky and cloudless  nights and the vast expanse of Quito's sky would make  a fine setting for an astronomical laboratory, although  it would be very hard to maintain it properly from  Ecuador's resources alone. It might interest Unesco  to collaborate in the project for a Pan-American  Observatory on the Equator, perticularly after the  important resolutions taken at Cincinnati by the  International Astronomical Union last may. Once  more I must thank Unesco for its generous assistance  to the Astronomical Observatory by ita gift of a  precision workshop and a quartz clock, for use in the  Astro-laboratory of Quito,
10.26 In the name of the Government of Ecuador,  I wish to express to Unesco the pleasure it feels at  the skill and exactitude with which this Organization  has carried to a happy conclusion each of the tasks  it has undertaken in Ecuador. Ecuador congratulates  Unesco on its work, congratulates the Director-  General and his staff on their devotion and ability,  and looks forward with optimism to the satisfaction  of its Government's many aspirations.
11. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 call upon H.E, Mr. Mohammed El Fasi, Head  of the delegation of Morocco.
12.1 Mr. EL FAS! (Morocco) (Translation from  the French):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, my first  task in addressing you from this rostrum is to bring  you greetings from our august soveriegn, His Majesty  Mohammed V, and to convey to you his good wishes  for the success of this Conference and for Unesco's  success in the tasks that lie ahead.
12,2 Our King, his Government and the people of  Morocco are deeply interested in Unesco. It was the  first international organization which we wished to  join, as soonas we gained our indepen( ènce, and since  then our collaboration in its work and ?âe aid it provides  us with have both increased.
12,3 I should like also to congratulate the Head of  the delegation of Ethiopia on his election as President
311  of the General Conference, The entire African con-  tinent is thus honoured, and I like to see in this  election a symbol of the leading rôle at last to be  assigned to education, since it was at Addis Ababa  that was held the conference on the educational needs  of the African countries,
12.4 At this same session, two new States of  Moslem Arab culture, Kuwait and Somalia, have  been admitted to membership of our Organization,  I extend to them my warmest congratulations and  express the hope that all the other Arab countries,  those which are free as well as those which have  been struggling courageously for many years to  reach independence, may soon join us in the building  of a world where only peace, understanding and  prosperity will reign, and where the human dignity  of each nation will be recognized and accepted by all  the others,
12.5 This year - I called it the African year at the  session of the Executive Board last April when we  hailed the entry of Guinea into our Organization -  has been indeed a memorable one for our continent.  The accession to independence of all these brother  nations, who come to enrich the cultural patrimony  of humanity, is a happy omen for the future of the  world and of peace. May, I repeat, all the other  peoples of Africa and of other parts of the world at  last enjoy liberty, that necessary attribute of man,  and may the odious word colonialism be forever  blotted from the memory of man! °
12,6 You are welcome, my dear brothers of Africa,  in your home, this home of the mind, to which we  as Africans, be we white, brown or black, have a  duty to bring the stamp of our civilization and our  culture. We all have need of Unesco and of all the  countries which are ahead of us on the path of human  progress. But it is also true that the world in a  human sense will be enriched by the discovery of  this great continent, knowledge of which was supposedly  acquired from exotic works and colourful déscriptions.  Today, it is Africa's own sons who come to express  themselves freely and to make known to the world  the wealth of poetry and art which this continent  conceals,
12,7 While congratulating my brothers of Africa  on their accession to independence, my country  deplores the fact that, under caver of a pseudo  independence to be granted to the pseudo-Republic  of Mauritania, its territory is to be mutilated. When,  at the beginning of the Twentieth century, the colonial  ambitions of certain European nations incited them  to take over Morocco, the undertaking seemed to  them hazardous, because the Moroccan people wère  known for their fierce attachment to their independ-  ence, and because in the course of their long history  they had never submitted to a foreign yoke, Even  after its conversion to Islam, Morocco declared  itself independent of the Eastern Caliphate, Then  it was that began its dismemberment and partition-  ing. France occupied the southern part of the  country called Mauritania, the ancient name of  Morocco, and Spain took over a large part of  . Southern Morocco, called the Rio de Oro. The in-  habitants appealed to the Sultan to defend their inde-  pendence, but the central power was too weak at  that time to face a war against tro great powers,  This weakness compelled Turkey even to sign a   XIX PLENARY MEETINGS  protectorate treaty with France on the one hand and  with Spain on the other. A fifth zone was put under  international control: the zone of Tangiers. Thus  broken up, we were destined during long years to  struggle for the independence of our country and its  unity. And now, in the Twentieth century, when the  whole world is condemning colonialism, a puppet  government is being used, such as we knew before  independence, to continue to hold a part of the  Moroccan people under a foreign yoke. I hope that  the United Naticsis, in its wisdom, will, now that {t  is debating the issue, put an end to this source of  friction and that a united Morocco will be able to  raise that part of its territory to a level of social and  economic development reached by the rest of the  country, already liberated and joined to the mother  country,
12,8 Mr. President, allow me after these general  remarks to dwell a little on the Proposed Programme  and Budget for 1961-1962, I must first congratulate  the Director-General on his report, which is a model  of clarity, order and logic. Having taken part, as a  member of the Executive Board, in the work .of  giving it final form, I must acknowledge that ite con-  ception, its new arrangenient and the importance  given to education, wers the characteristic feature  of this fine creation which, if supported by the  Member States, will bring our Organization closer  to the realization of its essential aims, Here I must  also congratulate the staff all of whose members do  their hard jcb with self-sacrifice, competence and  industry, 1 speak here with personal knowledge of  the work of the Secretariat and from the relations  I have had with its different services for nearly five  years, . .
12,9 The main characteristic of this proposed pro-  gramme and budget 18 the place reserved, as I have  already sald, for education. Many speakers before  me found reason for congratulation in this achieve-  ment, for they haye been proclaiming for many years  that the most profitable investments are those that  are made in this sphere, All have stressed that the  key to progress is the. development of education,
12,10 Now that we are all agreed on the point ‘and  are considering how to bestow the benefits of civiliza-  tion on nations that are newly independent, what can  be done to spread education abroad in thege countries?  The plan which our different committees and the work-  ing party are studying at this moment answers the  question in various forms of monetary ald, fellow-  ships, round-tables, conferences, etc. But this is  not enough. No criticism is intended of the programme  nor of the Secretariat, nor even of Unesco as an inter-  national, {ntergovernmental organization. No,  gentlemen, the means at Unesco's disposal will never  allow her to satisfy all the educational needs of  countries which did not get the chance to start on the  path of progress at the same time as the advanced  countries. It is on the latter that falls the duty of  helping the peoples who are so athirst for knowledge.
12.11 It is true that underdeveloped nations do not  lack only money, It is true that the lack of administra-  tive staff, experts, university men and economista is  the main obstacle to progress in the underdeveloped  countries. But everything depends on stepping up  education in-these countries. We can build schools,  acquire teaching material and train teachers. But  all these things need money, and unfortunately we  . cannot take money from the ground. To do so, one  must already be educated. An ignorant people does  not know how to exploit its natural wealth, So if we  are to break this viclous circle, allow the disin-  herited portion of humanity to approach the light of  knowledge which will open to us all the gates of  prosperity and progress, only the rich - the other  part of humanity - have the power to do this. ;
12,12 The rôle of Unesco will be greater than ever  when the nations of the world who have it in their  power agree to put at its disposal, besides their  ordinary contribution, the vast sums necessary to  finance the Major World Project for Education for
1063-1964, I had a hand in drawipg up this project,  along with my colleagues, Mr. Kuypers and the  lamented representative of Mexico on the Executive  Board, Mr. de Alba and it {8s now being studied by  the Programme Commission. Only when it is acti.  vated, will humanity be worthy of carrying the great  burden which, as it is put in the Koran, is to repre-  sent God on earth.
12,13 The delegations of the United Arab Republic  and the Sudan have presented a draft resolution con-  cerning the Arabic language and the place which it  should uccupy in the Organization, 1 may recall that  I drew Unesco's attention to this question four years  ago in a speech which I had the honour to make at  New Delhi during the ninth session of the General  Conference, 1 should like to repeat what I sald there.  “Arabic, Mr, President, is one of the few languages  in the world worthy of being considered a language  of civilization. It is not only the official language of  some ten Member States of Unesco, it ia also the  language of the Koran, the Sacred Book of the  world's four hundred million Moslems", It is there-  fore proper, if not to admit it as a working language  in the sense that we apply to this term, at least to  give it the benefit of a new classification, such as,  for example, "complementary working language"  Thus, ft would be mandatory to use it in all spheres  touching the Arab States. Documents which have to  do with that cultural region, as well as the principal  publications of Unesco, ought to be translated into  Arabic. .
12.14 One of the projects that does most credit to  Unesco is that of safeguarding the Nubian monuments.  This magnificent undertaking, which is due mainly  to the initiative of the Director-General, must be  made to succééd. In preserving these glorious  relics, which belong not alone to Africa, seat of the  oldest civilization in the world and not alone to the  United Arab Republic, which has just given us the  finest possible example in its appreciation of artistic  values. They are part of the common heritage of  mankind - in preserving them, I say, we shall prove  to ourselves that our civilization is not, as some  people like to claim, a purely materialistic civiliza-  tion. But, again, it is money that {gs lacking.
12.15 However, I am convinced that the enthusiasm  aroused by the campaign of last Spring will bear  fruit and that many nations will wish to share actively  in this fine enterprise. To illustrate the interest of  His Majesty Mohammed V in the project, he assigned  his daugiter, Her Royal Highness Princess Lalla  Aicha, to Unesco's Headquarters in Paris a fortnight  ago to keep him abreast of what is being done.   PLENARY  Princess Lalla Aicha is a member of the Committee  of Patrons of which His Majesty the King of Sweden  is President.
12,16 I hope that the announcement of a contribution  of 5,000 million franés from the budget of the United  Arab Republic made yesterday by H.E. Mr. Okasha,  the United Arab Republic Minister of Culture, will  meet with a favourable response in all Parliaments  of the world.
12,17 1 should like once again, Mr, President,  before closing, to say how much we appreciate the  aid which Unesco is giving us, particularly in the  field of education, Morocco has been making a great  effort to develop teaching, This year, we had a  million children at school. We hope to have all our  children at school by the end of the five-year plan,  whichbeganthis year, The budget for national educa-  tion this year reached twenty per cent of our total budget.  His Majesty the King, in his speech from the throne  on 18 November last, announced that this percentage  will be still further increased in coming years.
12,18 This year we celebrated the eleventh centen-  ary of the oldest university in the world, the Kairoween  at Fez, Delegations from most of the countries of  the world and representatives of all the old Moslem  universities of Tunis, Cairo and Tashkent in the  Soviet Union were our guests, It was a unique occas-  fon when university men of varied cultures were able  to meet as friends, Unesco was represented at these  celebrations and a speech was made by Mr, Chevalier  on behalf of the Deputy Director-General, Mr, Maheu,  which was considered to be one of the best statements  delivered on the contribution of Moslem civilization  to the cultural heritage of mankind.
12.19 This year, within the framework of the Major  Project for the Mutual Appreciation of Eastern and  Western Cultural Values, we organized a musical  festival at which an orchestra from the famous  Mozarteum of Salzburg gave concerts in all the large  towns of Morocco, New institutes have been founded  at the University of Rabat, in particular an Institute  of Social Studies, a creation due to Unesco, who pro-  vided us with an expert from the University of  Neuchâtel, to whom I should like to pay tribute for  his ability and untiring efforts,
12,20 These, Mr, President, are but a few  examples of the cultural activity of our country,  which I wanted to bring to your attention in order to  say that, if we have had the good fortune to be a  little more advanced than some of our African neigh-  bours who have only just become independent, we are  ready to help them by taking their students into our  universities, by assigning teachers to teach in their  schools, and generally by giving them all the help we  can. Our action in the Congo, at Leopoldville, with-  in the framework of the United Nations was appreci-  ated as much by the Congolese themselves as by  foreign observers.
12.21 But once more, the most effective ald towards  raising millions of people athirst for knowledge from  their unfortunate situation must come from those who  have the means to give it. And it 1s comforting that  all the statements we have heard from this rostrum  in the course of this session, inspire the hope that  they will give it. It will be to the honour of Unesco  to have contributed to this vast movement of human  fellowship a pledge of world peace and prosperity.
13. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French):  I call upon H.E, Mr. Sava Ganovski, Head of the  delegation of Bulgaria.
14.1 Mr, GANOVSKI (Bulgaria) (Translation  from the Russian);  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, ‘the report  of the Director-General is an interesting tnd import-  ant document describing the activity of. Uni: sco during  the past two years and surveying its tasks lor the  future. It is not possible to deal with all the ques-  tions on which observations and suggestions might  be made, and I shall therefore touch only on some  of them. As regards the programme and budget for
1961-1962, the Bulgarian delegation has made a  number of proposals which will be our modest con-  tribution to Unesco's activity. I shall not speak  about them here.
14.2 Unesco has some notable successes in inter-  national collaboration In the sphere of education,  science and culture to its credit for the period under  review. They include; research on arid lands; the  Conference on Oceanography in Copenhagen; the  results achieved under the Major Project on Primary  Education in Latin America, The Montreal Confer-  ence on Adult Education, and a whole series of  international meetings and conferences on questions  of education, science and culture, The regional con-  ferences of the National Commissions d' the Asian  and European countries, as well as the conferences  held in Addis Ababa, Karachi and Beirut, also ylelded  positive results, Unesco can take pride in having  been the first of the Specialized Agencies to support  the resolution of the fourteenth session of the United  Nations General Assembly on the question of general  and complete disarmament.
14.3 Notwithstanding, we are fully justified in  asking ourselves whether Unesco has done every-  thing it could to improve collaboration between nations  with different economic and political systems, to  help in ending the cold war and establishing lasting  peace. We have to state that the Secretarfat and the  Executive Board have not done everything within  their powers and possibility in accordance with the  injunctions of Unesco's Constitution, to promote  international collaboration in the field of education,  science and culture... The reasons for this are to be  found above all in the fact that the Executive Board  is trying to keep the Organization aloof from the  biggest and most vital problems of mankind at the  present time,
14,4 How is it possible in our time, ladies and  gentlemen, at a moment of transition from one social  and economic system to another, from capitalism  to socialism, to consider the activity of international  organizations such as Unesco without taking account  of the international situation in general, and without  mentioning the major historic tasks which lie before  us in eliminating the danger of another destructive  war and in fighting for the preservation of peace?
14.5 Never in man's history have there been such  solid possibilities as now to resolve the question of  general and complete disarmament, to bring about  an easing of international tension, to institute the  peaceful coexistence of countries with different social  systems, and to utilize education, scientific and   Xx PLENARY MEETINGS  cultural collaboration between nations as a means of  finding.” solution to these questions, Only if Unesco  follows this path will it prove equal to these tasks of  our times, In fulfilling them, it will contribute within  its own means and possibilities, not only towards the  solution of historic problems but also towards the ad-  vancement of democracy, the consolidation of inter-  national peace and the development of education,  science ‘and culture.
14,6 Only an the basis of a correct understanding  of the international situation, a correct understanding  of the laws of development of our epoch, can we deter-  mine the basic aims of our work and chart the way to  their achievement. It 18 clear to all of us that Unesco,  as a body concerned with questions of education,  science and culture, must have a acientifically based  policy. This means that Unesco's directive work  must be carried on, not chautically, but in an organ.  ized, systematic and creative fashion, in conformity  with social progress. In this way, the policy of  Unesco will be scientifically based, and this in turn  will be of special importance for the consolidation  and further development of the Organization's activity.
14.7 Yet there is nothing of this in the report of  the Director-General, in its outline of the past and  future activity of Uneaco, And what is more, when a  number of delegates, including the delegation of the  Soviet Union, proposed to repair this omission by  including the above-mentioned questions in the agenda  of the session, their suggestion was turned down with-  out the slightest argumentation. During the two-day  debate on these proposals everything was done to bar  their inclusion in the agenda.
14.8 It seems to me that this omission in the  Director-Géneral'a report is not fortuitous. It re-  flects the attitude of the Unesco Secretariat. Further-  more, the opposition to the inclusion of these ques-  tions typifies the frame of mind not only of certain  delegates to our Conference, but also of the Secre-  tariat, which means that such manifestations are  characteristic of the policy pursued by Unesco, The  truth is that this policy is masked by constant state-  ments to the effect that Unesco 18 not concerned with  politics, and that therefore these burning questions  cannot and should not be included in the agenda, I  doubt whether these statements have convinced anybody.  One thing is clear: those who excluded any considera-  tion of these vital questions from the agenda are  simply afraid of life and history, and are revealing  their own moral and political impotence. Their "non-  political" line is nothing but a cloak, in fact, for  their political intentions.
14.9 Ladies and gentlemen, it would be highly  interesting at our Conference, to go into the question  of what politics really is. It is not iny intention to  give a lecture on the matter: I have neither the time  nor the possibility, - But what sort of misunderstandings  arise on this point is evident from the following. We  are véry happy here, and have every reason to be, to  welcome the delegates of a number of African nations  who have freed themselves of colonialism and achieved  independence. This is considered not to be politics.  But to concern ourselves with the question of defend-  ing the independence of peoples, to demand non-  Interference in the internal affairs of States - as was  suggested here by the Cuban delegation - is considered  :0 be politics. To defend the presence at our  ~ 314  Conference, without any justification of the Chiang  Kai- Shek delegation, is not politica, but to raise the  question of the acceptance as a member of Unesco  of the People's Republic of China - which has every  right to acceptance - this is politics, nothing must  be said about this matter here, and the question  must not be included in the agenda, To raise ques-  tions of general and complete disarmament, the  liquidation of colonialism, peaceful coexistence and  other important isaues for consideration by the  General Conference is conaidered to be politics.  But to discard them, to refuse to consider them,  that is not politics, I shall not labour the maiter by  referring to other issues: I think that enough has  been said to point to the conclusion that the concep-  tions of what is political and what is not political  are confused in the minds of certain delegates to the  point of absurdity.
14,10 Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, is it  possible in our day to name a single important social  or scientific question which is not political? We  can see for ourselves that even the question of ~  atomic energy, of the conquest of the cosmos and  other scientific problems are in fact political issues.  Again, take those questions whichare so peraistently  and sharply raised by life. itself, such as general  and complete disarmament, the "liquidation of  colonialism, peace or war, peaceful coexistence  andthe rest - surely these are not purely political ques-  tions only? Tothinkthattheyare would, I submit, be  a grievous error; theyare also scientific questions -  thatis, questions which concern sociology, philosophy,  history, pedagogy and other sciénces Nay, more,  these questions are linked to educational and cul-  tural issues, and hence they not only may, but should  be considered by the General Conference of Unesco,
14.11 It is obvious that those who were reluctant  to consider them are simply unwilling to understand  the scientific and cultural content of these questions  and are afraid to give consideration here to ques-  tions of science and culture, and this fact, indeed,  is what characterizes their political intentions and  aspirations, which are not only erroneous but harm-  ful, . .
14,12 There is no doubt that all peace-loving  international public workers in the field of science,  culture and education perceive these serious defects  in Unesco's activities, and this will neither help  Unesco to fulfil its tasks nor strengthen its authority,  nor will it help towards a solution of the major prob-  lems of our time, On the contrary, it slows down  the life of our Organization, hampers social and  cultural development, and will have the effect of  making our Organization still further removed from  life.
14,13 Ladies and gentlemen, nobody is asking that  Unesco should turn itself into a political organization,  We do not want it to become a second United Nations.  But it {8 necessary to understand that educational  and cultural activity has its own politics, and hence  that political and cultural questions are directly  linked. It is not only from one side but from all  sides that Unesco should consider the questions of  education, science and culture which it is its first  duty to tackle, and which are closely bound up with  political questions and contribute towards their  correct solution.   PLENARY
14.14 It is absolutely essential that Unesco, as  such, should face up to the historic problems and duly  concentrate its efforts on mobilizing the educated  world public in defence of peace and in defence of  civilization menaced by atomic war. Instead of con-  centrating its energy and helping to achieve this key  objective, Unesco dissipates its strength on minor  measures which nay all seém necessary but which  in reality only weaken the main stream of effort in  the direction in which the activity of the Organization  should be developing.
14,15 The Government of the People's’ Republic of  Bulgaria is of the opinion that Unesco cannot fulfil  its basic mission without taking an active part in the  struggle for the defence of peace, for complete and  general disarmament and for the liquidation of the cold  war which is hampering the development of the crea-  tive forces of those who are struggling for the elimina-  tion of colonialism and its effects, A situation in  which Unesco looks on unconcernedly while thousands  of millions of dollars are wasted each year on arma-  ments at a time when nearly one-third of the popula-  tion of the globe is illiterate and vegetates in ignorance,  when they need schools, books and scientific estab-  lishments, is downright impermissible. How is it  possible, for example, under the conditions of the  cold war and the arms race, as at present, to work  successfully for the eradication of illiteracy among  nearly one thousand million people? To fight for  general and complete disarmament, for the liquidation  of colonialism 18 to fight for the eradication of  illiteracy, for thé creation of a mighty network of  educational and cultural institutions, for the flower-  ing of the national culture of all peoples,
14.16 ~The Government of the People's Républic of  Bulgaria fully’ supports the proposal by the Soviet  Union Government that Unesco should set up a major  project for the world-wide eradication of illiteracy  that shameful hallmark of the colonial policy of the  {mperialistic nations.
14.17 Ladies and gentlemen, the delegation of the  People's Republic of Bulgaria would like to dwell on  yet another question of vital importance for enhanc-  ing the international authority of Unesco, enlarging  its field of activity and more effectively implemént-  ing its programme, - It must be forthrightly étated  that by its oppositièrito glvingthe Peoples Republic of  China its rightful place in Unesco, the Organization  is depriving itself of the possibility of making use of  the wealth of experience of a great country in the  fight against illiteracy, of having access to the age-  old culture of the Chinese people, In’ pursuing a  policy of discrimination ‘against the People's Republic  of China, Unesco is cor. mifting a gross érror which  is seriously undermining the Organization's authority.  It is making the same mistake, also in respect of  other counfries: the German Democratic Republic,  the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the  Mongolian People's Republic and the Demécratic  Republic of Viet- Nam, 1 hope that these countries  will soon be äéceptéd as members of Unesco.
14,18 We warmly welcome the new members of our  Organization and express the profound sentiments  which the Bulgarian people cherishes for the freedom-  loving peoples of Africa. We give a particularly  warm greeting to the peoples of Cuba and the Congo  in their struggle to defend their freedom and  MEETINGS XIX  independence, We subscribe to the opinion already  expressed by several delegates that the representa-  tives of Unesco in the Congo acted incorrectly, that  they acted not in defence of the freedom and inde-  pendence of the Congolese people but in the interests  of the colonialists, Perhaps I misunderstood  Head of the French delegation when he seemed to  imply that colonialism had already been liquidated,  that it was past and done with, and that there was  therefore no point in fighting against it. I regret to  have to say that this will deceive no one. Colonial-  ism belongs both to the past and to the present, and  the voice of history, the voice of the peoples,  demands that we, with the help of Unesco, liquidate  colonialism finally and completely. Let us not for-  get that hundreds of millions are still living in  colonial bondage,
14,19 À policy of discrimination is also evident  in Unesco's systematic refusal to grant consultative  status to a number of international non-governmental  organizations, Unesco has go far established rela-  tions of collaboration with more than 140 {nterna-  tional organizations, many of which are of great  international importance and promote the achleve-  ment of the Organization's aims and objects. But  there are not a few among them, such as the  Catholic International Education Office, and others,  with which Unesco has entered into collaboration  although they have very little international signifi-  cance, At the samé time, Unesco steadily refuses  to collaborate with such organizations as the World  Federation of Democratic Youth, the International  Organization of Journalists, the International Radio  and Television Organization, the International Union  of Students, the International Association of Demo-  cratic Lawyers and other organizations of well-  deserved international repute and known for their  democratic principles. It has to be stated that on  this issue, also the policy of the leading organs of  Unesco is having the effect of lowering its prestige  and detracting from international collaboration in  the field of education, science and culture.
14,20 Unesco practises discrimination against a  number of States on the question of the recruitment  of experts for the purpose of carrying the programme  of technical assistance to underde-relôpéd countries  into effect, Out of a total of nearly 2, 000 experts  sent on mission by Unesco, only between two and  three per cent are recruited in the Soviet Union and  the other socialist countries, All the others were  recruited in the main, in France, United Kingdom,  United States, Belgium and the Netherlands - that  is to say, in imperialistic and colonial States, What  justification is there for this? Surely Unesco knows  full well that it is not only these countries which  have experts available? In this case, Unesco is  obviously acting as a channel for the policy of the  colonial Statea, which are trying to preserve their  influence in their former colonies and to erect a  wall between the liberated countries and the’ socialist  States.
14,21 The delegation of the People's Republic of  Bulgaria has the honour to state that our country is  in a position to offer experts in various branches of  education and science who would be able to give  effective help to the Asian, African and Arab  peoples which have won their independence. The
315   XIX PLENARY MERTIHOS  questions facing them in the field of education,  science and culture are closely akin to those which  not so long ago faced the People's Republic of  Bulgaria and have already been successfully resolved.
14.22 Ladies and gentlemen, tremendous successes  have been achieved during fifteen years of people's  power in Bulgaria, The volume of production in our  country has increased ten-fold as compared with  figures at the time of its liberation from the fascist  régime, Bulgaria is no longer a backward agrarian  country as in the past, but has transformed itself.  into an industrial power with its own heavy industry  and a co-operative and mechanized agriculture which  conatitute the basis for the rapid development of  education, science and culture in our country. Our  successes in these fields are a matter of national  pride.
14.23 Led by the new people's power, the People's  Republic of Bulgaria has completely eradicated  illiteracy. With à population of nearly 8, 000,000  there are nearly 6,000 elementary schools at which  more than 1, 00U, 000 children receive instruction.  Nearly 150, 090 pupils attend the 350 secondary  schools, while there are 210 vocational secondary  achools catering for nearly 77,000 pupils. We also  have 10 semi-university institutes with 4, 000 students.  The number of higher educational establishments haa  risen from four to 20, catering for about 49,000  students and employing about 3, 500 professors and  teachers, whereas at the time of liberation the  corresponding figure was only 400, Out of every
10, 000 of the population, there are 58 students, or  considerably more than in such countries as the  Federal Republic of Germany, France, Italy, Canada,  the United Kingdom and others.
14.24 The children in Bulgaria are educated in the  schools in the spirit of freedorn and people's democracy,  as opponents of rabid chauvinism, nationalism,  racialism or war, The entive Bulgarian people is  raised in the apirit of international friendship,  collaboration and peace, in the spirit of the foreign  policy of the Bulgarian Government, as clearly ex-  pounded in the United Nations by our delcgation  headed by Todor Zhivkov,
14.25 Our people is ready to share its experience  with all who wish it. The delegation of the People's  Republic of Bulgaria wishes to point out that Unesco  is paying insufficlemt attention to the development of  education, science and culture in the socialist”  countries, is deliberately ignoring it, and is failing  to exploit it for the benefit of the recently liberated  countries,
14.26 Our delegation, in accordance with the  instructions of the Government of the People's  Republic of Bulgaria, supports the Soviet Union  delegation's proposal concerning the reorganization  of the Unesco Secretariat and the Executive Board,  including the appointment of three Secretaries instead  of a single Director-General, and an increase in the  membership of the Executive Board to 30 to corres-  pond with the three groups of countries: soclalist  neutralist and capitalist.. We consider these proposals  to be realistic, wise and practicable. The adoption  of these proposals wouid not only be right and proper  but would also enhance the authority of Unesco and  open up great possibilities for its further consolida-  tion and development.
14,27 The international situation at present is  radically different from what it was at the time of  Unesco's foundation, end the institution of Director-  General no longer meets the new conditions, Our  organization, ladies and gentlemen, is not something  immutable, It is not a fossilized substance: if we  wish it to grow In strength and develop it must follow  life, and not stand aloof from it. That means that it  must improve both its structure and its form of  organization, methods and style of work, This is  absolutely essential, but unfortunately many people  still fail to apprectate the fact,
14.28 ‘There ls nothing fortuitous about ‘the Soviet  Union proposals, They show a correct understand-  ing of the changes which have taken place in the  international situation and at the new stage in social  life. Moreover, they summarize the experience of  the work of Unesco itself, The proposals are realis-  tic, fair and wise, and their adoption, as I stated,  will open up great possibilities for the growth,  strengthening and imorovement of our Organization,
14.29 I should like also to draw your attention to  the question of the, Unesco budget for 1961-1962,  The budget level already accepted by the General  Conference is the highest which Unesco has ever  had. This budget, which entails an increase in  Member States' contributions, obliges us to put  forward a number of suggestions and recommenda-  tions for its utilization,
14,30 We consider it necessary to cut administra-  tive expenses by a minimum of 10 or 15%, and the  Bulgarian delegation whole-heartedly supports the  Soviet Union resolution in that connexion. The  reduction of administrative costs should be the  Secretariat's urgent and unremitting task. It could  make substantial savings which could then be used  for more appropriaté purposes tuch as educational  development in Africa, Asia and Latin America. We  consider it proper not to inflate the staff of the  Secretariat, and particularly those services which  have purely administrative functions - a tendency  which is apparent in the proposed budget, Let us  have a little less staff so as to have a little more  money; let us have fewer administrators and bureau-  crats but more creators in the Unesco Secretariat!  All this calls for unremitting efforts to simplify the  Secretariat's work; let us have fewer letters and  documents and more clarity and brevity!
14.31 In conclusion, I should like to state that  Unesco should concentrate its activity on carrying  out international measures which will directly con-  tribute to the establishment of closer relations  between States, and to the promotion of international  collaboration in the field of education, science and  culture,
14.32 The Bulgarian delegation makes a special  request to the directors of Unesco: that they provide  effective assistance in fulfilling those of Unesco's  tasks which concern the Balkan countries, so thet  closer scientific and cultural collaboration can be  created between them in order to convert the Baikans  into a zone of peace. The delegation of the People's  Republic of Bulgaria wishes to state that the Bulgarian  Government will support every proposal or initiative  of Unesco which aims at concentrating the efforts of  the Organization on the achievement of its basic  objectives; the strengthening of international   PLENARY  co-operation in the field of education, science and  culture, the achievement of general and complete  disarmament and the liquidation of colonlaliam, with  a view to peaceful coexistence and the triumph of pence  throughout the world.  t5, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon Mr, Murray, delegate of the Federation  of the West Indies, .
16.1 Mr, MURRAY (Federation of the West Indies);  ‘Mr, President, fellow delegates, I am very gratu-  ful for this opportunity of making a statement, In  international circles we have nowadays become  familiar with the epithets "small" "new" and "under-  developed" and the euphemistic variant "developing",  as applied to certain nations, All these epithets are  applicable to the country which I have the honour to  represent here and I appear before you in full con-  sciousness of the fact. But I am also conscious that  size, age, economic maturity and even militaty power  are not, and indeed never were, the only critéria of  a country's significance. The welcome bein; accorded  to the arrival of new nations in the United Nations  Organization and in its daughter organizations is too  hearty and unequivocal to léâve anyone in doubt about  this truth today.
16,2 Equally hearty and utequivocal have been the  declarations of concern for the well-being of all  peoples, and the genu!ivness of this concern is more  than borne out by the constant flow of afd, multi.  laterally and bilaterally, between countries both  within the United Nations framework and outside it.  A major part of all this concern is for the small,  new and developing countries, a fact which has been  so far an outstanding feature of this session of the  Conference. And, since so much of the business of  the Conference concerns countries like mine, what  more natural than that we should desire to put forward  our reactions and some points of view?
16.3 The Federation of the ‘West Indies qualifies  in still another way for the right to expression in this  instance. A great deal has been said here and in the  Programme Commission 3bout the evils of colonial-  ism. As represent a cglony in transitu, it might  not be amiss for me to {jidicate what I consider to  be the West Indian thin)ing on the matter, The West  Indies is a forward-looking community whose members  have more faith in their potential to survive, and to  survive abundantly, than desire to recriminate upon  unhappy history. ''The moving finger writes, and  having writ moves on ....", Therefore, the con-  cern about which I have spoken, I interpret as an  expression of modern man's will to redeem the bad  past; it is the noblest gesture of our age.
16.4 On the threshold of political independence  the West Indies is not as a man setting out upon a  hazardous journey, naked and without food or means  of defence. The educational basis of our development  was long ago laid down and many institutions neces-  sary for the viabllity of a modern State set up, in-  cluding institutions of higher learning. Our task  today is to expand the scope and scale of these to  meet our greatly increasing needs.
16.5 As a people we are a sumptuous mixture drawn  from many of the principal races of the world - from  Africa, Asia and Europe, and our civilization has  MEETINGS XIX  roots deep in the culture of each of these, We be-  lieve in the freedom and dignity of the individual and  no barriers of race, colour, religion or sex exist  to thwart legitimate ambition - social,” educational  or economic. The vitality of our society 18 evidenced.  in flourishing creative movements - in painting,  sculpture, literature, folk art and folk music - to  say nothing of strenuous self-help efforts towards  social and economic betterment,
16,6 In common with so mony delegations here, I  think it is in the field of education, particularly  school and higher education, that Unesco can make  greatest impact upon the developing countries. The  trained intellect is our only apparatus of self-  discovery, the only means of expanding our aware-  ness at this crucial moment of our history, The  transition to nationhood, we know, cannot be in  form only; it must be accompanied by that efficiency  which at one time justified the supremacy of one  people over another, and which today in a world  where, thankfully, human values are becoming more  and more respected, holds out bur only lasting hope  of attaining reasonable self-sufficiency through  scientific knowledge of our grudging environment,
16.7 But the West Indices is lacking in some of the  cohesion which in old societies may be taken for  granted, For some time now independence has been  ours for the taking, but our leaders have been busy  trying to undo what the experience of centuries of  isolation had done to each of our island communities,  This has been the factor responsible for what might  appear to some to be delay in our attainment of full  autonomy. We realize that there is a task here for  education, a task of fostering and encouraging the  same new loyalty everywhere, With enough of the  right kind of education - and this is a more general .  point - culture, whatever may be the precise mean-  ing of this all-embracing word, will take care of  itself, -
16.8 Now, the basis of the process of education  is the teacher; and in the West Indies as in so many  other countries, the rapid output of teachers suffici-  ent in number and quality is a problem demanding  new solutions, Here, I firmly believe is one field  in which Unesco has a-great potential, I note the  reference to the training of teachers in Dr.  Adiseshiah's able and sensitive exposition of the  situation in Tropical Africa, I note also a proposal  to set up there regional institutions where training  may be given to the staffs of teachers! colleges, 1  hope similar assistance can be made available to  the English-speaking peoples of the Caribbean if  they ask for it, For in the Carribean, too, train- _  ing college staffs would welcome opportunities of  deepening their skills and of studying displays of  the best pedagogical methods known to the world  today. The Assistant Director-General also made  reference to the recruitment and training of second-  ary school teachers on behalf of the developing  countries sorely needing them. Any new hope that  Unesco can hold out in this matter will make wel-  come news in the West Indies,
16.9 Touching the general programme, Sir, as  in another part of this Conference I raised the ques.  tion of regionalization in my part of the world, I  will spare you any repetition here, I only wish to  point once more to the principle that, where cultural
317   XIX PLENARY MEETINGS  and linguistio lines cut across regions served by  Unesco projects, resultant disadvantage to important  minority sections of such regions should be provided  against in some way.
16,10 Finally, Mr, President, I have only to say  that I have been specially charged by our Minister of  Labour and Social Affairs, the Honourable Phyllis  Allfrey, who on the occasion of our becoming an  Associate Member spoke to you here and who regrets  her unavoidable absence from the eleventh sesaion of  the General Conference, to express on behalf of the  Government of the West Indies Federation our deep  gratitude for the benefits our country has received  from Unesco, especially during the past two years.  We pledge our faith in Unesco and in the ideals it  proclaims and practises and we look anxiously forward  to the day when we shall attain full membership with-  in this great Organization,
17, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H.E. Mr. Beejadhur, Head of the dele-  gation of Mauritius.
18.1 Mr. BEEJADHUR (Mauritius) (Translation  from the Frenti);  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, education  is the need of all, and the community owes it to all,  Unesco has teken for its own use that two-centuries  old maxim of Condorcet's, for the greatest good of  humanity. The research and other work which  Unesco has done in the field of education, culture and  acience deserve our encouragement and our praise.  The various documents we are discussing today show  us once again that Unesco seeks to help the under-  developed ¢ountries to give their children an educa-  tion which can turn them into useful citizens.
18.2 Unfortunately education neither begins nor  ends with the school. It begins in the home, is con-  tinued in school, and is rounded out in life. It isa  continual process. After the building of schools and  the training of teachers there remains the great task -  perhaps the most difficult - of making available to  the students of yesterday the means of pursuing  their studies in one form or another.
18.3 I speak, Mr. President, with a full knowledge  of the facts, Thanks in large measure to the funds  furnished us by the Colonial and Development Welfare  Fund of the United Kingdom, we have succeeded in  building our schools and in founding a teacher-training  college, which may be considered one of the best, if  not the best, in our part of the world. But through  lack of experience we have not been able to prevent  most of our pupils from lapsing back into ignorance,  thus losing the reward of our efforts.
18.4 It is theréfore with pleasure that I remarked,  in the programme; presented by the Director-General,  that funds have bécn Allocated to this after-school  education, which he refers to as education of the  masses. But - for there is a "but" - while congratu-  . lating the Director-General on his programme, I  cannot overlook the fact that Mauritius has been  omitted. I like to think that this is perhaps an involun-  tary omission and I hope that lor fairness’ sake, the  Director-General will not forget to make amends.
18,5 - For our problems, though not the same as
318  those of Africa, are no less serious, Above all we  need suitable textbooks for our schools, where there  are children of European, Indian, Chinese and other  origina, The books now in use do not meet our needs  nor our desires, In the opinion of the teachers, our  teaching system needs to be reformed. How can one  properly teach three languages in the primary school?  With what language should one begin, and at what  stage should the second or the third be introduced  As soon as postible a solution should be found for  this problem, which is already causing trouble in  our country, Unesco alone, by its prestige and  know-how, can solve it to the satisfaction of all  concerned,
18.6 There 18 another problem, about which I  spoke briefly here after the admission of Mauritius  as an Associate Member. That is the problem of  community development. There again, the experi-  ence of Unesco and of countries like the United States  of America, the Dominican Republic and Australia,  who have been able to form a nation of different  racial and religious groups, will be useful to us.  Also useful for us, as for other tropical countries,  will be the Commission entrusted with the drawing  up of plans for the building of cheap schools, 1 hope  that the builders will not forget the hurricanes. On  this point I will quote our awn case, Most of our  schools, because they were badly designed, were  destroyed by the cyclones which have recently  struck our country. Rebuilding is going on, but  alas, how much time has been lost!
18.7 Ihave received plans for the building of  schools from the delegation of Mexico, I hope they  will be useful to me, and I express my thanks for  them. ! take this opportunity also to thank all the  delegations which have showered upon us sympathy  and proofs of friendliness,
18,8 Mauritius, in turn, is ready to help  countries that may need teachers for their primary  schools, clerical help for: their administration, and  sugar experts. We have a great number of young  people who have obtained their Senior Cambridge  Diploma or their Higher School Certificate and who  would be glad to serve the noble cause of Unesco,  An exchange of values is always good. People thus  get to know each other better and, consequently, to  have greater esteem for one another,
18,9 In that respect, this Conference will have  achteved this much: it will have enabled representa-  tives of many countries in the world to meet, to get  to know one another, to talk over their respective  problems and to seek means of solving them, That  is a big step towards universal brotherhood,  the guarantee of peace among men. And, in the  name of the delegates, Mr. President, I thank  Unesco.
19. ‘The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French}:  Ladies and gentlemen, there are five speakers  to be heard *omorrows ‘After these speakers the  general discussion will be closed. The Director-  General will then reply to all the speeches that have  been made. The meeting is closed.  The meeting rose at 5.50 p.m.