21 November 1960, at 3.40 p.m.  President: The Rt. Hon, Sir David ECCLES (United Kingdom)  later: Dr, KAHUDA (Czechoslovakia)  CONTENTS  General discussion of the Reporte of the Director-General,  of the Executive Board and of Member States (continued) . 166  GENERAL DISCUSSION OF THE REPORTS OF  THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL, OF THE EXECUTIVE  BOARD AND OF MEMBER STATES (continued)
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, will the meeting please  come to order, I would remind the Conference that  the Executive Board set about fifteen minutes as an  appropriate time for each speech. Indeed, if we are  to fit in between 70 and 80 speeches this week, that  is approximately the timé we can afford, I hope,  therefore, that we shall not fall behind this afternoon.
1.2 I now have pleasure in calling upon H,E, Dr.  Cals, the Minister of Education, Arts and Sciences  of the Netherlands, to address the Conference,
2.1 Mr. CALS (Netherlands) (Translation from  the French):  Mr. President, Director-General, ladies and  gentlemen, as Minister of Education, Arts and  Sciences in my country, I am responsible for the  development of those sectors of national life which,  at the international level, coincide exactly with the  fields of activity of the United Nations Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Organization.
2.2 I am therefore in a position to appreciate the  fertilizing effect of Unesco's contribution towards  international co-operation in the educational, scienti-  fie and cultural fields on the national approach to the  problems with which all of us are specially concerned.
2.3 This exchange of ideas makes it easier for us  to understand our responsibilities at both the national  and international levels, and it gives us a keener  sense of the solidarity existing between nations and  peoples, particularly at this time when so many new  Member States in Africa are increasing the universality  of our Organization by joining our ranks and enhancing  the value of our work. I assôciate myself whole-  heartedly with the expressions of satisfactionthat have  already beenforthcoming inthis comnexion. The heavy  responsibility henceforward devolving on Unesco in re-  spect of thege States has been repeatedly stressed, and  veryrightly so. We cannot sufficiently emphasize the  fact that the birth of so many new countries increases the  responsibility of our Organizatior, for Unesco's Constitu-  tion clearly defines the Organization's mission of promoting  international peace and the common welfare of mankind,
2.4 It is our Organization's duty - its self-evident  duty - to see that effective assistance is given to the  newly independent States so as to enable them to  develop education, science and culture in accordance  with their character, individuality and legitimate  aspirations, as the foundation for human dignity and  national prosperity. ’
2.5 What I have just said, however, constitutes  only one aspeci - albeit an important one - of the  entry of the new Member States into Unesco. For we  must not lose sight of the fact that while Unesco can  help give these newly independent States the means  necessary for the flowering of their own individuality,  it can also count on the contribution which they them-  selves are able to make, They have already demon-  strated their willingness to co-operate closely in the  common task, and Unesco will benefit in its turn,  from the help they are able to give us in many fields  by placing their spiritual heritage at the service of  others,
2.6 The Conference has already shown its full  awareneas of this, indeed, by electing the repre-  sentative of an old indepéndent African country as  its President and by electing a representative of a  young independent African country as a member of  the Executive Board,
2.7 The fact that the President of our Conference  should be able, like Mr, Berthoin, to take an effec-  tive part also in the work of the Executive Board,  gives welcome emphasis to the presence of Africa  among the policy-makers of our Organization. My  delegation is extremely pleased at this, and wishes  to stress, in this connexion, that this happy state of  affairs helps to give effect to the spirit of Unesco's  Constitution. Do not some of its articles deal with  the equitable representation of various cultures on  the Executive Board and consequently with satis-  factory geographical representation? Yet, if these  new States are to have a permanent place among us,  and if, at the same time, other important cultures  are to be equitably represented, the Netherlands  Government considers it essential for the Executive  Board's membership to be increased from 24 to 26.  For this reason, our delegation vnhesitatingly  supported the proposal submitted to that effect.
2.8 According to the agenda, the discussion now  centres on the reports of the Director-General on   PLENARY  the activities of the Organization. Iam very  that we are in possession of these important docu-  ments, The Netherlands delegation, which has always  claimed that Unesco should have adequate means of  taking action, has more than once emphasized how  necessary it was that the Organization should give a  clear account of activities brought to a successful  conclusion. However, no matter how long these  reports are, they fail to provide - even with the  proposed programme and budget covering a two-year  period - the necessary picture of the long-term pro-  grammes showing the exact details of the priorities  and increased allocations required. We therefore  welcome the publication of the five- year appraisal of  Unesco's programmes.
2.8 This report shows that serious stock has been  taken of fundamental aims and methods of work of the  Organization, and it provides a solid basis on which  we will be able to construct our long-term programmes.  I gather from the reports of the Economic and Social  Council dealing with it that it produced an excellent  Impression at the Council session in Geneva last  Summer. It constitutes a major contribution to what  is termed the general report on the five-year  appraisals of the activities of the United Nations and  the Specialized Agencies - a report which obviously  calls for close co-ordination -for it is difficult to  delimit economic, social, educational and cultural  problems, and the integration of the plans of the  organizations concerned thus becomes of truly para-  mount importance.
2.10 I am perfectly aware, Mr. President, that In  making these general observations I have wandered  from the past and turned my thoughta to the future.  The fact is that the only reports featuring in today's  agenda are those relating to the past; and the five-  year appraisal and the proposed programme and  budget are being discussed in the various commissions  in the meantime, Nevertheless, I feel I am keeping  to the heart of the subject of this general discussion,  which was to be reserved for absolutely essential  points. ;
2.11 I have been profoundly struck by something !  read during these past few days concerning Gaston  Berger, our late illustrious colieague, One day he  is said to have told his Minister: " Why not stop think-  ing for just one minute, Sir, about things that make  you lose your time?'"". This keen-witted founder of  the Projection Centre was certainly not intending to  belittle the value of a knowledge of the past, or a  close study of it, but was clearly trying to draw atten-  tion to the supreme importance in the first place, of  thinking about the future. I cannot refrain from  quoting something that he wrote in this connexion:  "What I noticed, in administrative practice, was  that plans were more often made for the past than  for the future, I have also noted that the future was  was conceived in terms of the present, as though it  were merely a prolongation of it. We think of the  bature in the present tense, and fetter our actions by  regulations thought out in terms of the present, if  not of the past. Thinking ahead demands the exact  opposite. We should look at the present in terms of  the future"
2.12 How pregnant these words are for this  Conference! The world of tomorrow is that of Unesco  in its new format: not the 80 Member States of 1958
167  MEETINGS Xr  but the 100 and more of 1962, and it is in this light  that we should consider the present also, That is  why I feel that this general discussion, in the pursuit  of which the heads’ of delegations would be well-  advised to stop thinking for just a few minutes about  things which make them lose their time, should be  mainly directed to the future,
2.13 This makes me wonder, Mr, President,  whether the procedure now followed ia the best, I  should therefore like to ask the Director-General  and the Executive Board to consider - or, rather,  reconsider - whether this general discussion in  plenary meeting might not find a place elsewhére,
2,14 It would be improper for me to enlarge on  this question at present. In any case I have noted  from the documents before us that the forward-  looking spirit of Gaston Berger also inspireé the  Director-General and his assistants. One of the best  examples of this, I think is tbe remarkable efficiency  with which the new States of Africa have succeeded,  since attaining their independence, in drawing up an  additional programme over the past few months in  an attempt to solve the urgent problems confronting  the countries of that continent, There are many  other points which indicate the same preoccupation,  but my delegation will revert to these questions at  greater length in the various commissions if further  clarification of certain aspects of them are con-  sidered desirable, ,
2.15 Mr. President, I have devoted a considerable  part of my speech to Unesco!s task of helping the  new States in the efforts to promote the broad  development of their culture. I have also pointed  out that our Organization, when drawing up pro-  .grammes, should above all deal with the future.
2.16 Before concluding, 1 should like to draw  attention to another, and no less important, aspect  of Unesco's activities - the safeguarding of the cul-  tural heritage which the great civilizations have  bequeathed to us. Interest in the heritage of the  past is also, or rather particularly, important in a  dynamic era such as the one we live in. The man  who is ignorant of what happened before his time  will always remain a child and will never awaken to  that wisdom which contact with true civilization  alone can impart,
2.17 May I be allowed, in this context, to draw  your attention yet again to a project which my  Government has very much at heart - the preserva-  tion of the Nubian monuments threatened with des-  truction as a result of the construction of the Sadd  el Aali dam. This campaign, launched under the  auspices of Unesco is the most important one staged  for the preservation of the cultural heritage of man-  kind that our Organization has included in its activi-  ties since its foundation. My Government {eels  strongly that the disappearance of these monuments  would be an irreparable loss for mankind, a loss  which can be avoided only if large numbers of private  institutions throughout the world as well as all the  governments represented in Unesco concretely  demonstrate their interest in the matter. I would  welcome most heartily an appeal by the General  Conference to all Member States of Unesco to make  a reasonable contribution to the fund for safeguard-  ing the threatened monuments, and my delegation  will make more detailed representations on the   x PLENARY  question when this item comes up for discussion, 1  would like to state forthwith, however, that if the  Conference adopts a recommendation drawn up in the  spirit of what I have just said, the Netherlands  Government would be prepared to make a contribution  to the trust fund in due proportion to the joint financial  effort. ;
2.18 My Government has also responded to the  Director-General's appeal in yet another way. In  addition to financing an archaeological expedition, it  has continued Netherlands traditions in the field of  hydraulics by taking the neceasary steps to prepare  a preliminary plan in connexion with the hydraulic  works designed to protect the Island of Philae from  flood damage, The Netherlands experts were able to  collect all the necessary information, thanks to the  effective co-operation of the competent archaeological  and technical services of the United Arab Republic  and Unesco, with the result that a plan is already  available in detailed form. I am very happy, Mr.  President, to be able to present this preliminary  plan to the Director-General on behalf of my Govern-  ment on the occasion of this session of the General  Conference.
2,19 In handing it to you, Mr. Director-General,
1 would like to express the hope that it will contribute  to the success of the campaign which our Organiza-  tion has undertaken, under your guidance, to protect  the Nubian monuments. I would algo like you to see  in this Netherlands contribution, Mr, Director-  General, Mr, President and colleagues, a token of  the faith and confidence which the Government and  people of the Netherlands have in Unesco and in its  activities in promoting the welfare of mankind and  the peace of the world.
3. The PRESIDENT:  I thank Dr. Cals for his speech and for submitting  to the Director-General this report on the safeguard-  ing of the Philae monuments. I now call upon H.E.  Mr. Lapin, Head of the delegation of the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics.
4.1 Mr. LAPIN (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, our Confer-  ence has metat a memorable time, when profound poli-  tical and social changes are taking place in the world.  The struggle of nations for freedom and independence  is irresistibly growing, and there is no power in the  world which could hold back this great progressive  movement of contemporary history.
4.2 Unesco has now been in existence for fifteen  years, and during that time the world has changed  considerably, But the most substantial change, with-  out doubt, is the fact that the capitalist system has  had to squeezè up even more and make way for the  new socialist system in the vast expanses of Europe  and Asia. Already over 1,000 million people or one-  third of the human race, have set out on a new and  more progressive path of social development - the  path of socialism,
4.3 During these same years, many radical  changes have taken place in the colonial empires.  A population of over 1, 500 million has thrown off the  heavy yoke of colonialism, and new prospects of  free development have opened up before them. Asa:
168  MEETINGS  result, new prospects have likewise opened up for  Unesco, which is called upon to promote progress  and the elimination of the serious after-effects of  colonialism in the field of education, science and  culture.
4.4 It is impossible not to see the changes which  are taking place in the position of the colonialist-  imperialist countries also. These countries no  longer retain their former monopoly of scientific  and technical achievement and have ceased to be the  law makers in the fields of education and art, and  in other fields of intellectual life,
4.5 The Director-General points out in the appraisal  of Unesco's programme for the Economic and Social  Council, that "throughout the world education is  passing through a crisis', The appraisal, like a  number of other Unesco documents, reflects the  one-sidedness and narrowness of the conceptions  held by many leading members of Unesco's staff  concerning the state of education in the world.
4,6 We representatives of the socialist countries  cannot accept such a pessimistic evaluation, In our  country, for example, all children without exception  receive schooling. All young people, all workers  and peasants, have every possibility of raising their  level of knowledge at both secondary and higher  educational establishments. There can be no ques-  tion, therefore, of a crisis in education in the social-  ist countries. Already more than one-third of the  workers and the peasants in the Soviet Union have  had a secondary education in other words, they  have attended school up to grades 8-10. We have  now set ourselves the task of providing all’ workers  and peasants with a secondary education, 1 must  point out that before the Revolution there was not a  single worker or peasant in our country who had had a  secondary education, not one! And now there are  one in three.
4.7 The successes scored in education and scienti-  fic development have been particularly great in the  Union Republics, the former border-regions of  Tsarist Russia, where the population was almost  entirely illiterate, Today all the Union Republics  have their own academies of science, universities  and nigher educational establishments, and an ade-  quate number of schools providing eight years'  compulsory education in the national languages. I  repeat, in the national languages. These Republics  are developing their individual national cultures,  and have their own operas and theatres, and can  count upon the services of highly educated national  staffs in all fields of State, economic, scientific  and cultural activity.
4.8 Allowme to cite just one example: inthe Soviet  Republics of Central Asia, there are 88 students to every
10, 000 inhabitants, whereas the figure in the most ad-  vanced countries of Wester: Europe is only 30-40, Thus  our national Republics have far outstripped the Western  countries inthis respect. Itisawell-knownfact that  our educational establishments turnout three times the  number of engineers produced by the United States.
4.9 We consider that the study of the rich and  many-alded experiences of the national Republics  of the Soviet Union is of exceptionally great import-  ance for Unesco, particularly in view of the tasks  now arising in the field of education in the new  States of Africa and Asia and in Latin America.   PLENARY MEETINGS X1
4.10 In order to study, of course, a man needs to  have the time, the material conditions and an inner  intellectual urge. The successes achieved in educa-  tion in our country are due to the superiority of the  socialist system. Like health services, education  in the Soviet Union is completely free, The working  day has been cut to 6 7 hours and soon we will have  the shortest working week in the world, It is the  constant concern of the Soviet Government to raise  the living standard of the workers, reduce prices  and, more particularly, to improve housing condi-  tions, It is also well-known that books in the Soviet  Union are cheaper and are printed in larger editions  than anywhere else in the world. Everyone who has  been to the Soviet Union, including our esteemed  Director-General can confirm that this is so. We  have the cheapest television and radio seta, records  and other cultural requisites. Cinemas, theatres  and music are accessible to all, in the fullest sense.  Herein lies the reason for our successes in the field  of education, the reason for our sputniks, our rockets  and our economic achievements,
4.11 The Soviet Union readily shares its rich  experience in the fields of education, science and  culture, We provide disinterested aid to the countries  of Asia and Africa for developing their economy and  culture and for training their own skilled workers,  I have some gratifying news which I should like to  impart: during the present session of this General  Conference the opening took place in Moscow of the  University of Friendship, which is now being attended  by students representing 59 countries, with preference  given to the countries of Asia, Africa and Latin  America. I must add that the University received
43,000 applications for admission, Mr, Khrushchev  spoke at the opening ceremony, and messages of  greeting were received from Mr, Nehru, Mr, Soekarno,  Mr. Sekou Touré, Mrs, Bandaranaike, Prince Norodom  Sihanouk and very many other representatives and  leading statesmen throughout the world.
4,12 Gentlemen, we are called upon to examine  the programme of activities of our Organization for  the years 1961-1962. The programme contains much  that is good. A certain amount of useful work has  also been done in the course of Unesco's past activi-  ties. But before speaking about the programme, we  have two important questions to ask: What has been  done, and will be done, by Unesco towards easing  international tension and removing the danger of war?  And what has been done, and will be done, by Unesco  towards eliminating the colonial system and its grave  after-effects.
4,13 We are putting these questions because we are  anxious to see the complete eltmination of the cold  war and the easing of international tension, and we  want Unesco to help effectively in this connexion,  Over one hundred million people are still languishing  in colonial servitude and are deprived ôf rights,  There is still much misery, much hunger, misfortune  and illiteracy. The threat of war still overshadows  the world, The frantic armaments race is still  swallowing up colossal sums which could be devoted  to the noble cause of improving living conditions of  mankind in the material and spiritual sense.
4.14 Unesco cannot stand aloof from these ques-  tions. Such is our firm conviction. It is impossible  for workers in the fields of education, science and
160  culture, the people engaged in the various peaceful  professions, whose representatives we are here,  to work tranquilly and'créatively while an agreement  on disafmament has yet to be reached, while the  armaments race contimies, while the thermonuclear  weapon - that frightful instrument of mass destruc-  tion - has not yet been banned and destroyed, This  is why the Soviet delegation has attached, and still  attaches, so much importance to the implementation  of the resolution of the’ 55th session of the Executive  Board on Unesco's contribution to the action taken  by the United Nations in favour of general and com-  plete disarmament) :
4,15 We regret that the Conference disagreed  with our proposal that we hear a report by the  Director-General or: this subject, and hope that in  conformity with the wishes of most members he  will take those wishts into account and pay greater  attention to this question in practical work also, In  Unesco's programme documents the questions of  the struggle for peace and disarmament are given  only formal mention, but in fact they are by-pagsed.  It is incredible, but nevertheless true, that in the  Director-General's report for 1959 you will find not  a single word about the danger of war. It is this  that disturbs us.
4.16 Many well-known scientists and cultural  workers have made repeated representations in  letters and public declarations concerning the threat  of war, but never once has Unesco supported these  representations.
4.17 At one time, there used to be a special  section in Unesco's programmes entitled " Work  for Peace"', but it no longer exists. In the appraisal  of Unesco's programmes for the Economie and Social  Council the section on " Work for Peace" occuples  only one page out of 182 - the last page, incidentally,  and a fairly empty one as far as content goes. We  simply cannot hold with such a passivity and In-  difference on the part of the Unesco Secretariat  towards work for peace, Everyone can see that a  war fought with modern means of destruction would  spell the doom of the main centres of industry,  science and culture and the world's most precious  historical monuments.
4.18 It is unnecessary for me to labour the fict  that our persistence in the struggle for disarmament  and for the preservation of peace ig by no means an  indication of weakness on the part of the socialist  countries. The Soviet Union has sufficient means  at its disposal to deal a counter-blow against any  aggressor, but we are sincerely concerned with the  preservation of peace, The Soviet Unlon, as was  stated in Mr. Khrushchev's message to our Confer-  ence, is doing, and will go on doing everything in  its power to avert war and strengthen peace and  international co-operation. We are impelled for  that very reason, to refer to the danger which  threatens the peace and security of the world.
4,19 Can we remain silent here about the fact  that more than 300 military bases are directed  against the socialist countries, that our proposals  for general and complete disarmament and the  abolition of atom and hydrogen bombs have still not  been adopted, that in Central Europe the revanchists  are again raising their heads? Can we remain  silent here about the fact that in some countries   x1 PLENARY  racial propaganda still exists, is still being spread  and is growing in intensity, and that racial theories  are being advocated? .
4,20 Neither, gentlemen, can we help being con-  cerned about the tense situation developing around  Cuba, We well understand the feelings of the heroic  Cuban people, who have shed their blood in order to  win through to freedom and the bliss of independent  life, Can the future of the Cuban people, their  children, their culture and art be a matter of indiffer-  ence to those taking part in this Conference? Can we  be silent about the danger which at this very time is  threatening the Cuban people? Is it-not clear, finally,  that in our day any local war can grow into a world  war, with all its horrors and disastrous consequences?  This is why our delegation, like many others, so  persistently and resolutely supports Cuba's proposal  condemning any intervention in the internal affairs of  the Cuban people as of any other country. The pre-  judiced position of the United States delegation on this  point cannot but inspire us with serious alarm.
4.21 Rest assured that we are not speaking about  this in order to keep some quarrel or discord going,  far from it, we would be happy if such quarrels and  disputes did not exist, Our country has spared no  effort - nor does it now - to improve relationships  with the United States and other countries, and is  always ready to stretch out the hand of friendship.
4.22 Mr. Thayer told us that it was necessary to  organize a free exchange of ideas, a free exchange of  information, and that this would promote mutual  understanding. We agree with this, on condition that  this exchange helps to congolidate friendship between  nations and is not used for purposes of war-mongering  or increasing tension, We should very much like to  see good neighbourly and friendly relations established  between the United States and Cuba; relations not in-  volving the use of military bases, warships and  military aircraft.
4.23 Yesterday I had the pleasure of meeting here  in Paris one of our leading public figures, Comrade  Korneichuk, who was returning with a large group of  Soviet intellectuals from the United States, where he  had had meetings with American intellectuals, They  came away convinced that ways can be found of  developing contacts between the USSR and the United  States in all fields of culture, science and art, We  are all very pleased at this, of course, and we look  forward with interest to a return visit to Moscow by  Mr. Thayer himself in order to discuss with him the  practical points relating to cultural exchange between  our countries, Our representative, Mr, Zhukov,  has already conducted negotiations on the subject  with representatives of the State Department in  Washington. All this is excellent, but for the develop-  ment of cultural contacts one condition is necessary:  the liquidation of the cold war and the preservation  of peace.
4,24 The Soviet Union delegation considers it  essential that our Conference address an appeal to  the governments of all States to support the proposals  for general disarmament with every means at their  command, and to take steps as soon as possible to  draw up an agreement for general disarmament  which would, incidentally, release vast sums for  developing education in the underdeveloped countries,  Just imagine, once these questions have been settled ‘
170  MEETINGS  what broad vistas will be opened up for aclentific  and cultural exchange, what paths will lie open for  many- sided co-operation between nations!
4,25 Only a settlement of the problem of disarina-  ment and the observance of the principles of peace-  ful coexistence can today ensure the progress of  education, science and culture, Humanity is faced  with the choice: either peaceful co-operation and  coexistence, or a devastating war, No third way  exists. It is a well-known fact that some Unesco  members avoid discussing the principles of peaceful  coexistence - they are even scared of using the  term and shy away from any talk on the problems of  peace. The Soviet Union delegation considera that  the idea of peaceful coexistence, unanimously sup-  ported by the United Nations, should form the basis  for the whole of our Organization's practical activi-  ties. We hope that the General Conference will  support the Soviet Union proposal on this question.
4.26 All participants in this Conference were duly  sent the memorandum and declaration on the grart  of independence to colonial countriès and peoples  submitted by the Soviet Union delegation at the  fifteenth session of the United Nations General  Assembly. Unesco is faced with tremendous tasks  in eliminating the grave after-effects of colonialism,  It is difficult to describe the horror and misery loft  behind by the colonial powers in the countries which  they were forced to leave under th: blows of the  liberating movement. According to United Nations  data, the illiteracy rate for the adult African popula-  tion amounts to 80-85%, and to 90% in individual  territories. In the Portuguese colony of Angola,  only 2% of the African children go to school, and so  on,
4.27 After this, can we wonder at the intensity of  the hatred of colonialism that has gripped all peoples?  We can understand the feelings of the liberated  peoples, who reject with scorn and anger the asser-  tions by the colonizers about their civilizing mission  and their philanthropic generosity towards their  former slaves. Attempts are being made at present  to quench this hatred by making donations to Unesco's  Special Account, but it can hardly be imagined that  such gestures can diminish responsibility for the  tremendous economic, cultural and moral damage  caused to these peoples subjected to long, long  years of brutal exploitation,
4.28 I shall recall only one fact mentioned in  United Nations records. It is known that between
1950 and 1958 the United States increased its private  capital investments in the economy of the under-  developed countries of Asia, Africa and Latin  America by 4,100 million dollars and withdrew  profits from those same countries amounting to
11,300 million dollars. During only nine years of  monopoly, therefore, it pumped 7, 200 million  dollars out of them. It is United Nations material  that I am quoting. It would only be fair for the  colonial powers to repay to their ex-colonies even  part of the stolen income and profits pumped, over  the years, from the countries that were under their  domination. And this is why the Soviet Union delega-  tion has introduced a proposal regarding the restora-  tion to the ex-colonies, for the purposes of instruction  and education, of part of the wealth grabbed by the  monopolists.   PLENARY MEETINGS
4,20 It is a regrettable fact that up to now Unesco  has done nothing, or practically nothing, to provide  the new States with really effective help, Moreover,  the actions of the few senior Secretariat members  who visited the Congo, for example, irresistibly call  for a vigorous protest on our part, The visit of these  leading Unesco officials to the Congo, has led, in the  final analysis, to proposals which amount to an  attempt to revive the former colonial conditions re-  jected by the Congolese people, In point of fact, the  Unesco staff members who have visited the Congo  have acted, and act, in such a way as to by-pass the  legitimate government of Lumumba and support the  upstart adventurer Mobutu, thereby discrediting our  international Organization in the eyes of the Congolese  and other peoples, It is characteristic that the visits  to the Congo and the negotiations that took place there  proceeded under conditions of secrecy, The proposals  made by the socialist States for help to the Congo  were rejected. Hence, the Unesco Secretariat bears  direct responsibility for the fact that the school year  in the Congo was disrupted and that precious time was  lost in bringing the schools back into normal operation.  We request that the Director-General give the Confer-  ence an account of what was undertaken in the Congo  in the name of Unesco behind the back of the legiti-  mate government of Lumumba, and that actions of  this kind be discontinued and condemned.
4.30 It has to be atated, without mincing matters,  that on the question of relations with the Congo and  with her legitimate government, just as in the attitude  adopted on a number of other cruclal questions of the  day, the one-sidedness of the Unesco Secretariat and  its leading members is clearly apparent. Unesco is  still not a universal international organization, and  {ts work suffers accordingly. Through the fault of  governments which have largely subordinated Unesco's  activities to their own ends, the lawful representa-  tives of the great country of China are still absent  from our Conferences, We are sometimes reproached  for a proneness to political discussion, but we would  ask you to put the responsibility for the discussion  ,on China on another country, whose name you all  know. It Is perfectly obvious that the participation  of the Chinese People's Republic in Unesco's activi-  ties would lend a vital new force to the Organization  and would increase its authority.
4.31 We also consider completely irregular the  fact that the German Democratic Republic, the  Democratic Republic of Viet-Nam, the Democratic  People's Republic of Korea and the Mongolian  Peoples Republic have so far not been drawn into  Unesco's activities, The German Democratic  Republic is an active participant in 180 international  organizations. Can any justification be found for the  fact that that country, with its academies and uni-  versities, its establishments for education, culture  and art, does not participate in Unesco activities as  the . result of an anti-democratic policy of discrimina-  tion? The participants in this Conference have been  sent a memorandum by the German Democratic  Republic expressing its willingness to co-operate  with Unesco. We hope that this prop sal will find  favour, and that the practice of discriminating  against the German Democratic Republic will cease.
4,32 The time has also come to change Unesco's  attitude to a number of international non-governmental
171  XI  mass organizations. We cannot accept ag arguments  against co-operation with certain democratic organiza-  tions the criticism levelled against them that they |  are fighting for International peace and security, on  the strength of which they are classed as communist,  We communists are proud of the fact that the idea  of communism is indissolubly linked with the glorious  aims of the struggle for peace. Herein lies ‘the in-  vincible strength of communism, But it is obvious  to all, of course, that being a supporter of the ideal  of peace does not at all mean being a communist,  Those who oppose Unesco's co-operation with non- .  governmental democratic organizations fighting for  peace, reveal themselves as enemies of international  co-operation,
4,33 It has to be stated that Unesto's bias is also  particularly marked in matters relating to the geo-  graphical distribution of posts, a fact which undoubtedly  impresses the stamp of political partiality on all the  Organization's activities, More than twenty States,  for the most part in Africa, Asia and Eastern Europe,  are completely unrepresented in the Unesco Secre-  tariat, whereas France, Belgium, the Netherlands  and other countries have taken the lion's share of  the posts.
4,34 We likewise condemn biased and tendentious  practices in Unesco's publishing activities. The  Soviet Union representatives have repeatedly pro-  tested against the appearance in Unesco publications  of calumnious anti-scientific fabrications. The  "International Social Science Journal", and the  "History of the Scientific and Cultural Development  of Mankind" are particularly outstanding in this res-  pect. It is perfectly obvious that this practice  saps confidence in Unesco and its publications.
4,35 The blas ie reflected in the proposed pro-  gramme and budget which has been submitted to us.
1t is apparent in the desire to divert our attention  and funds from the most vitally important problems  and to occupy the Organization and its machinery  and material resources, with minor projects of  secondary importance. We cannot approve of the  way in which the administrative apparatus has so  rapidly and needlessly expanded. And now we are  again being presented with proposals for a consider-  able increase in the budget and a further increase  in the size of the staff.
4,36 We are completely in agreement with the  frank and profoundly true statement by the Peruvian  representative, Mr, Mac-Lean y Esteños, to the  effect that Unesco is suffering in the highest degree  from administrative hypertrophy. The Soviet Union  delegation proposes that administrative expenses  should be cut down by at least 15%, so that the funds  released (amounting to 2-3 million dollars) could  be directed to the development of education, science  and culture in the countries of Tropical Africa and  Asia, the Arab countries and Latin America. Let  us wait before constructing the new building, let us  cut down the number of staff, and there will be room  for them here. Perhaps we can algo examine other  expenses: there is a very great deal of correspond-  ence, for example, We should be able, in this way  to slash expenses by 15% and direct them to the  needs of education,
4,37 At the present time, in solving any interna-  tional question, it is necessary to proceed from the   NI PLENARY MEETINGS  real relationship of forces. Three groups of States  have come into existence in the world; the socialist  States; the countries that do not belong to any military  bloc and maintain a policy of neutrality; and the  colonialist- imperialist nations united into military  blocs, Unesco is obliged to conduct its activities in  the light of the Interésts of all three groups, bearing  in mind that the socialist and neutralist groups are  playing an even greater part in intérnational life.
4,38 We therefore consider that the time is ripe to  replace the office of Director-General of Unesco by a  three-member executive body representing respec-  tively the socialist countries, the neutralist countries  and member nations of the military blocs of the  Western powers, This form of leadership in Unesco  would ensure an impartial and objective approach to  the solution of the tasks facing our international  Organization, and its real universality. This  principle should also be laid down for the member-  ship of the Executive Board, and the Soviet Union  delegation has therefore proposed that the Board  should have 30 membors instead of 24, and that  the countries of the different groups should also be  equally represented on it.
4.39 Mr. President, I have merely touched upon  the most essential questions concerning Unesco's  activity, If Unesco fails to link its daily work with  the tasks of fighting for peace and peaceful coexistence,  for disarmament and the elimination of the after-  effects of colonialism, it runs the risk, in my opinion  of lagging behind life and losing its influence and  authority. Not, of course, that it should be a purely  political organization - of that there can be no doubt.  But it must clearly see the link between scientific,  cultural and educational questions and the burning  problems of the day. Unless this is done, the nations  will cease to place their trust in it. Unesco will be  able to carry out the tasks before it only if it becomes  a really universal organization and takes account in  its activities of the changes proceeding in the world.
4,40 In critically examining Unesco's past activities,  we voice the hope that the new Executive Board, the  Secretariat and our Director-General will bring about  radical changes in the work of the entire Organization  and transform it into a viable and truly international  Organization in tune with the needs of our own times  and capable of serving the high aims of the struggle  for peace and international co-operation in all fields  of cultural and scientific life.
5. ‘The PRESIDENT:  I now call upon H.E, Mr. Rubio y Garcia-Mina,  the Minister of Education of Spain.
6.1 Mr. RUBIO Y GARCIA-MINA (Spain) (Transla-  tion from the Spanish):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, the delega-  tions which regularly attend this General Conference  every two years are able to note on each occasion,  and especially on this one, the steady progress being  made by Unesco towards universality of membership  and the increasing richness and variety of its  content.
6.2 But the success, or at least the efficacy, of  our work seems to depend on a fundamental condition  which 1s no doubt common to most international  organizations today but which is particularly applicable,
172  I think I am right in saying, {o Unesco. It consists  in a nutshell, in effectively combining the general  with the concrete,
6.3 In coming here, we are co-operating in a uni-  versal task but are also participating in some small  measure in the life of each Member State, and this  undoubtedly brings us closer to life in its most  material and essential form,
6,4 Unesco's tasks are general; they cover  humanity as such, but usually they reach that goal,  or at least advance towards it, by way of concrete  objectives achieved within a’ particular country,
6.5 In concerning ourselves here with the Expanded  Programme of Technical Assistance, the Programme  of Participation in Member States' Activities and  United Nations Special Fund projects, we are enter-  ing into the real life of each of these countries, which  means that we are taking an effective part in activi-  ties that rebound on living people, people with their  separate identities, through whom alone we cover  the great world of culture that is Unesco's province.
6.6 Not only is this so, but whatever measure is  taken here, whatever word is spoken, can raise or  conversely, dispel, the hopes of unsuspected groups  of fellow human beings in some corner or other of  the globe,
6.7 This means that we are living a full life of  human solidarity within the framework of our  Organization, but the road which has led us to that  life passes through the real world of men and women,  International co-operation through Unesco manifests  itself in one way or another in the cultural outlook  of millions of persons and in the national life of  almost every State.
6.8 This very projection of our Organization  creates a problem in its work which the Director-  General's reports have repeatedly underlined: the  problem of concentration, concentration of aims and  concentration of means to achieve those aims. It  was this trend towards concentration which gave  rise to the system of Major Projects, but the rest  of our activities must also comply with that necessity,  including those which come into the category of  special activities.
6.9 This implies, of course, a considerable effort  on the part of the Secretarlat in selecting and match-  ing aims and resources betwean the endless variety  of educational or cultural questions, involving as  they do the risk of dispersal of effort, especially in .  view of the world-wide scope of the Organization,  with its present membership of well nigh one hundred  countries. -
6.10 I would like, in this connexion, to extend my  cordial greetings to the new Member States which  are coming forward to take part in our work with  fresh and vigorous enthusiasm, and to welcome  their distinguished representatives, our new  colleagues at these working meetings.
6.11 The larger we have grown and the broader  our liorizon, the greater our need for ensuring con-  centration; and the key to the problem is a system  of concentrating on a small number of undertakings  so that we can all take an active part in them,
6.12 This, we feel, is the heart of the matter as  far as the life of Unesco is concerned - concentra-  tion, beyond doubt, but with the participation of one  and all, as a means of linking ourselves together   PLENARY MEETINGS  organically in an effective community of individuals  and nations,
6.13 With concentration alone, then, we shall not  achieve our aim; for our work to be effective, we  have to organize and plan, I am not far wrong, I  believe, in stressing these tasks as something that  we must bear strictly in mind in examining our pro-  gramme of activities,
6,14 In the first place, there is the general plan-  ning of education: planning with a view to raising the  intellectual level of the broad masses of the popula-  tion on a world-wide scale, .
6.15 We have to remember that one-third of the  world's population is at present living in a state of  deprivation in this respect which we cannot tolerate.  We must strive to achieve tighter planning and co-  ordination of our work, It 18 not enough, for example,  to carry through a considerable number of activities  during a given period within the context of a Major  Project.
6.16 The result might be, in that case, that we  would achieve nothing but a proliferation of discon-  nected efforts, of isolated actions, of tasks that  barely touch upon the true themes on which our co-  operation must be based if it is to encompass its objec-  tive. And to reach that objective is the task facing  Unesco.
6,17 The interesting phenomenon signalized by the  Director-General in his notes on the structure of the  proposed programme and budget reflects the dynamics  of our time. The clear-cut differentiation between  the international and collective nature of the Secre-  tariat projects and activities carried out under the  Organization's Regular programme and the particu-  lar nature of the activities carried out under the  Participation and Technical Assistance programmes,  characterized by their national inspiration and limited  scope, is now giving place to a more intimate inter-  penetration of both these spheres, with the result  that all Unesco activities, no matter what programme  they belong to, are tending, as the Director-General  told us, to become interrelated and to merge with  one another,
6.18 To merge, perhaps, is not the case; but  certainly to dovetail and to become integrated into a  common whole; and that should be our aim, in fact.  In order to achieve this, the system of Major Projects,  with their nature and scope as defined in the intro-  ductory note to the proposed programme and budget  presented to us by the Director-General, appears to  me to be most adequate.
6.19 In Spain, we have been able to get down to  work and make use of all the means at our disposal  for furthering these projects. One contribution to-  wards developing co-operation in the Major Project  on Arid Lands, for example, was the meeting of the  Advisory Committee which was held in Madrid during  the last two year period, thus providing us with the  opportunity of profiting from the presence of its  members, as distinguished experts in this field, by  acquainting them with problems and achievements in  our country and learning from what they had to say.
6.20 Our research centres and engineers, guided  and instructed by the results of the Unesco projects,  are constantly at work on these questions.
6.21 As regards the Major Project on the Extension  and Improvement of Primary Education in Latin -
173  XI  America, our aim has been to devise the most sober  and effective forms of collaboration; we have organized  a course on educational statistics, another on the  system of single-teacher schools (the results of  which we have published in a handy volume) and a  third on school buildings, All of these courses were  attended by large groups of Latin American fellow-  ship holders, =
6.22 Finally, as regards the Major Project on  Mutual Appreciation of Eastern and Western Cultural  Values, we have conducted various activities listed  in the report of the Spanish Government included in  document 11 C/7, "Reports of Member States".
6.23 I would like to supplement the data agsembled  there by noting the steady increase in the scope of  information about the Orient imparted at the various  educational levels, We have incorporated a con-  siderable number of books on Eastern subjects in  our school libraries, and are now arranging for an  important symposium on certain aspects of this  problem to be held shortly in Cordova, that extra-  ordinary crossroads of history, which was for  centuries the meeting-place of the cultural trends  of East and West.
6.24 We are glad to note in the proposed budget,  as a pointer, an increase in the allocation for this  project, which surely indicates that Unesco intends  to treat this undertaking more intensively,
6.25 Lastly, still on the question of Major  Projects, we cannot but praise the prudence which  the Director-General has shown in curbing his  desire to consider a fourth Major Project. We ap-  preciate the fact that it would be risky to set out to  explore other heights so long as one of the projects  now in operation has not been concluded; but per-  haps it would not be superfluous to consider the  selection of a broad theme for the future, By way  of suggestions, I would like to propose to you the  following theme: The critical review of national  stereotypes, This {a a typical interdisciplinary  problem in which the Organization's five Departments  would have to participate and which would be in line  with Unesco's ultimate objective of international  understanding and a spirit of peace between peoples.
6.26 At the tenth session of the General Confer-  ence two years ago, the speech in which I expounded  the views of the Spanish delegation made a point of  stressing the importance which the Montevideo  Conference had for us in Unesco's history, We are  glad that the Director-General singles out that session  as the starting point of a second phase, and that the  positive nature of the innovation introduced into the  work of the Organization of dividing our tasks into  general activities, special activities and major pro-  jects that grow with the Organization's general pro-  gress on the international level is being adhered to.
6.27 We appreciate the importance of the general  activities (I have already referred to the activities  connected with the Major Projects) but to be fully  effective, of course, they must be combined with  special activities; counter-balanced by the latter,  they assume a concrete character, and Unesco's  collaborators themselves - officials, experts and  delegates - also become used to working at tasks  that are entirely concrete and empirical,
6.28 If the Director-General is able in his assess-  ment of the work carried out by the Organization   x1 PLENARY  (document 11 C/9) to state that there is now a distinct  tendency to place increasing emphasis on action, it  is due, in our opinion, to this well. proportioned  combination of the general and of the particular in  our activities, With the partial change in structure  of the programme and budget presented to us, accom-  panied by a tendency to mérge these two types of  activity, we consider it advisable to point out the  advantage of having them integrated, indeed, but with  the two principles they represent retained within the  system,
6.29 We consider the list of projects set forth in  the basic document 11 G/5 under general activities  to be of mahifest importance, and have very care-  fully studied the various documents distributed by  the Secretariat regarding them,
6.30 I wish to express our keenest support for all  the efforts being made to eliminate discrimination in  education. While it is true that In the field of women's  education there have been certain vocational differ-  ences which may have been preserved in some re-  spects, varying from one historical period to another,  we cannot accept such distinctions when it comes to  rights or social status, or anything that may be con-  sidered as a basis or a means for the full develop-  ment of human life,
6.31 In our country there neither is nor has been,  any discrimination, even in the highest offices:  women are active, ‘and have been in the past, in the  spheres of government, literature and art. Women  are now working as teachers, doctors and lawyers  and in all branches of science. The proportion of  women students at Spanish universities at present  amounts to 20.12%. In some faculties, such as  pharmacy or literature, it is over 60%, In the  acience faculties it ts 25.24%. The opinion of a  famous contemporary economist who states that  women are now able to earn as much as, or more  than, men, was quoted here on one occasion. We  would go further and add, on the basis of our past  and present experience, that they can also rise as  high as, or even higher than men - a faét readily  apparent in the country which gave St. Teresa birth.  We can point, in reference to what sociologists call  the new family. cell of modern times, to the Spanish  home, that product of culture and humanity, as a  magnificent example of man and wife teamwork.  Perhaps this explains why the figures for juvenile  delinquency in Spain are so low.
6.32 The draft international recommendation on  technical and vocational education merits our special  attention. We have realized for some time in my  country that the theoretical and practical education of  engineers and all those involved in industrial activi-  ties constitutes, indeed - as asserted in the programme  and budget submitted to us for discussion - a pre-  investment for economic development, and we also  believe that raising the level of that education is just  as important a factor for the free and forthright  development of the consciousness of technical staff  at all levels, The impetus given to scientific and  technical education is reflected in the fact that during  the past few years the number of students has doubled  at the faculties of science and tripled at the engineer-  ing and agricultural colleges, while the allocations  for the operational costs of these establishments  have quintrupled. In addition two new types of
174  MEETINGS  institution have latterly been established at succes--  sive levels; Workers' Institutes and Workerst Uni-  versities, where we plan to give the students the  most adequate and effective technical training possible,  as well as a clear idea of their place in society and  the role that technicians are called upon to play in  the life of mankind.
6.33 Two aspects ary mentioned iri the proposed  programme and budget as coming within Unesco's  province in this connexion: the elaboration of stand-  ards and principles, and the development of a pro-  gramme of assistance to Member States, As far as  the first is concerned, we shall take a most lively  part in the discussion of document 11 c/s, while as  to the second, we shall make a point of giving the  plan of assistance to specified Member States our  whole-hearted support,
6.34 We recognize as a general principle, that  the Organization's multilateral system of assistance  to States that need it springs from the very "raison  d'etre" of Unesco. At the same time, however, that  integration of the general and concrete which 18 the  source of Unesco's strength infers the advisability  of not renouncing bilateral aid where a State is  generous enough and able to offer it.
6.35 The human experience and professioml skill  of our technicians will henceforth always be available  to those who may need them. And in that connexion  I am happy to offer all the means at our disposal for  the training of administrative and executive personnel,  in accordance with the project contained in the docu-  ment which has been distributed to us.
6.36 We are impelled, for the same reason, to  express our gratification at the development of  educational planning, and look forward to hearing of  the success of the plans which have been drawn up  to meet the educational needs of Africa, Asia and  the Arab countries,
6.37 We are also gratified at the substantial  progress made in primary education in Latin  America, ‘as described in the Director-General's  report to which I have previously referred, in direct  connexion with the development of our Major Project  on the subject,
6,30 In our country we have tackled these same  problems on a modest scale hut with firm resolution,  and have studied tlie situation in the light of the  needs, economic resources and time required, for  it 1s neither easy nor desirable to improvise hasty -  solutions,
6.39 I should like to give you a few isolated  figures: 8,000 school buildings were latterly under  construction, and on the first of October another
7,300 were started. Last year, 11,000 new teachers  began work at primary schools, while school atten-  dance rose by 320,000 or by 10%.
6.40 We consider very appropriate the further  attention which Unesco proposes to pay to the prob-  lem of developing higher education, and feel that  in the past Unesco has paid too little attention to’  this sector, which {s most definitely in need of its  support and which will undoubtedly provide occa-  sion for fruitful co-operation in the study and  dissemination of Unesco's ideals for it is in  these higher educational establishments, in the  final analysis, that the spirit of national leader-  ship is formed,   PLENARY
6.41 If, furthermore, Unesco proposes to pay  increasingly greater attention to the various aspects  of scientific development, it ie on the universities  and the centres of higher studies that it will have to  rely, This new disposition at least in its major  development, likewise represents a novel aspect of  the programme: concerted action in the field of  oceanography, the development of marine sclences,  the encouragement of scientific research and the  gurvey of the main trends of inquiry and other docu-  ments which the Programme Commission will have  to consider, indicate a new aspect of the Organization's  activities worthy of our closest interest. I would like  also, to express my extreme pleasure at the announce-  ment in the Director-General's report concerning the  creation of an International Brain Research Organiza-  tion.
6.42 In conclusion, 1 have one or two brief com-  ments to make. The Director-General's note on the  structure of the programme expresses the desire to  move in the direction of wider geographical repre-  sentation as far as the non-governmental organiza-  tions are concerned, but we also hope that the manner  of solving this difficulty will be given closer considera-  tion and that the handing over of particular Unesco  activities to non-governmental organizations does  not result in any fundamental change in the geographi-  cal distribution of Unesco's own activities, In other  words in distributing work and subventions, in the  appointment of experts and in the preparation of  surveys, studies and reports of all kinda by non-  governmental organizations, there should be no  reduction or radical change in what we have come to  call geographical distribution within Unesco itself.
6.43 We believe that the main instrument of Unesco  should be the National Commissions, and we also feel  that their services are not sufficiently called upon,  We therefore beg to suggest that of the two networks  which Unesco makes use of as a means of spreading  its influence, that constituted by the National Com-  missions should be strengthened and enlarged,
6.44 During the last two-year period, the Spanish  National Commission participated in the organization  of an international symposium in Madrid on the  preservation of monuments and of the Arid Zone  Advisory Committee meeting; in the study on the  standardization of educational statistics; in the  symposium on the teaching of Arabic in non-Arab  countries; in the preparation of a dictionary of social  science terminology; in the publication of a tele-  communication directory; in the publication of RUDA  (copyright laws and treaties of the world); in the  Bibliograffa del Caribe; in the continuation of the  "Index Translationum'; in the exchange of young  students; in receiving and assisting fellowship  holders arriving in Spain and in the selection of ex-  perts,
6.45 It has created a National Committee for the  Visual Arte which actively co-operated in the meet-  ing of the International Association of Plastic Arts  in Vienna; while a National Music Committee organized  the participation of the National Orchestra in the re-  cent Paris festivals, Finally, I would like to mention  the work done by other Committees, such as the  Historical Committee which is preparing interesting  contributions for the international commission deal-  ing with that field; the East- West Committee, whose
175  XI  MEETINGS  interesting symposium I have already referred to;  the Scientific Committee, which operates in the many  scientific fields where Unesco is active; the Youth  Committee, which has taken part in a large number  of international activities; the Committee for the  International Campaign for the Safeguarding cl the  Monuments of Nubia, which succeeded in obtaining  a substantial allocation from the Spanish Government  and Parliament, towards financing the Spanish con-  tribution.
6.46 Ag you can see, fellow delegates, we are  succeeding in the national context, albeit within the  limited range of our possibilities, in developing an  ever more intensive rate of activity, like Unesco  itself; and we are heartened in our efforts in this  direction when we find that the Director-General's  reports confirm the impression of tha almost infinite  scope of expansion which daily unfolds before Unesco  in pursuing its work.
6.47 This means, in fine that Unesco is steadily  becoming rooted in the consciousness of peoples - a  fact whose causes we should analyse and whose con-  sequences we should evaluate; a fact which might be  said to govern, while at the same time irreversibly  promoting the progress of that international con-  sciousness.
7. ‘The PRÉSIDENT:  I now call upon the Head of the Greek delegation,  H.E. Mr. Averoff, who is a member of the Executive  Board and a permanent delegate of Greece to Unesco,
8.1 Mr, AVEROFF (Greece) (Translation from  the French):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek  Government has once again instructed me to address  this distinguished gathering and interpret its feel-  ings as regards Unesco's progress, with particular  emphasis on the proposed programme and budget  for the two years ahead.
8.2 I take particular satisfaction in doing so, for  apart from certain reservations made by my Govern-  ment - I might almost say traditionally, and to  satisfy our treasury bigwigs - regarding the constant  increase in the budget (which In any case 18 under-  standable in view of the natural extension of our  Organization's activities), I have nothing but praise  to bestow on all those who took part in drawing up  this plan of action,
8.3 We can only note with satisfaction that this  wide-ranging document entitled programme and  budget embodies a very wise principle which has  often been put forward by the Director-General,  namely, that new ideas prompted both by experience  and by recent events in International life must be  introduced - with due care and flexibility, of course -  into our activities and integrated into the permanent  and well-established doctrine which has already  stood the test since Unesco was first founded.
8,4 For example, 1 note two main innovations in  the formulation of the new programme. One relates  to its form of presentation, and reflects the natural  need for unity. It is what is described as the "two-  fold integration of typee of activity and sources of  funds'', making it possible to assess more rapidly  and easily the various Unesco activities whether  financed from the Organization's own resources or   XI PLENARY  from those made available to it by the Technical  Assistance Board, the Special Fund or other bodies  which have recently been set up. .
8.5 The second innovation appears to be more in  the nature of an irtensive development of existing  activities - a development resulting from the rapid  tempo of cultural and national emancipation in the  present age, and reflected in a most marked expan-  sion of the Regular programme as manifested in the  field of education in Tropical Africa, the Arab States  and Asia,
8.6 Greece, faithful to its glorious traditions which  have always led it to seek higher standards for the  intellectual and moral development of the individual,  can only applaud such measures. It firmly holds  that obscurantism is invariably the cause of the major  troubles threatening the world, and that its suppres-  sion is the best guarantee of social and international  peace,
8.7 Our ancient nation, laden with 3, 000 years of  history, which created its own civilization, in a  manner which has perhaps set an example to the  whole of the West, by basing it on respect for human  dignity and on the exalting concept of liberty, cannot  but greet with enthusiasm the African peoples’  achievement to independence - a highly significant  event pregnant with responsibility for all of us, who  welcome those peoples as brothers in the international  community,
8.8 Inthe name of the Greek Government, there-  fore, I most warmly welcome these new countries  which have just joined the family of the United Nations.
8.9 You will readily understand, too, that it is with  very particular emotion that I welcome the accession  to independence - and the entry into the family of the  United Nations, although not yet into that of Unesco -  of the Island of Cyprus, for which in the past I have  already had the honour of soliciting your sympathy  and active help. I believe I am justified in saying,  incidentally, that on the human and international level,  Cyprus can today present itself as an example of  friendly co-operation between two different, even  formerly hostile, peoples within the framework of a  new independent State. We can do no better than wish  it a brilliant and peaceful future,
8,10 My country is also pleased to be associated  with the international campaign launched by Unesco  to safeguard the archaeological treasures of Nubia -  unique treasures which are threatened as a result of  the very understandable need to provide fertile new  nd for the industrious peoples of Egypt and the  Sudan, We Greeks feel a particular attachment to  some of these Nubian temples, for they belong to  Hellenic civilization and symbolize the first meeting  between Greek thought and that very ancient Egyptian  culture which Plato already recognized as one of the  most vernerable sources of universal wisdom, Ought  we not to see here, gentlemen, one of the first ex-  amples of East- West contact, the promotion of which  Unesco has been glad to take on as one of its noblest  and most important tasks? Greece's interest in the  undertaking is evidenced by Her Majesty the Queen's  participation in the Committee of Patrons and by the  measures which will shortly be taken to raise funds  in support of the campaign.
8.11 Such, gentlemen, are a few of the ideas  which the Unesco activities described in the new  MEETINGS  programme for 1961-1962 have inspired in  my country.
8.12 But before leaving this overall consideration  of U5esco's current activities and immediate pros-  pects, I must mention my Government's desire that  the number of seats on the Executive Board should  be increased, so that all cultures may be represented  on it and a fairer geographical distribution may be  achieved,
8,13 So far I have done nothing but praise the  proposed programme. To be objective, and for  form's sake almost, I should add a few critical re-  marks. I still think that it would be highly desirable  for Uneaco ducuments to be simplified, and that  there should be a slackening in the flowing tide of  publications.
8.14 From the economic, moral and intellectual  standpoint, our Organization would have everything  to gain by submitting concise and pointed documents  which would not put off the harassed reader in this  age of speed,
8.15 I would also have been happier had there been  a more detailed study of Unesco's present and future  requirements, which would have spared us the  trouble, scarcely two years after the inauguration  of the present sumptuous Headquarters, of consider-  ing the construction of new buildings at very con-  siderable expense.
8.16 After these general remarks, it remains for  me to refer - at no great length, I promise you - to  my country's participation in the life of our Organiza-  tion.
8.17 Here again I have nothing but praise for what  has been done,
8.18 One field where co-operation between Unesco  and Greece has been particularly fruitful is that of  technical assistance, especially on the subject of  adult education. I must really pay homage to the  intelligent understanding which we have met with in  our dealings with the Secretariat and Technical  Assistance Board services; thanks to them, in fact,  and also to the very fertile soil which the experts  found in our country, I am in a position to tell you  that astonishing results have already been achieved,  and that the prospects of solving the problem of  illiteracy now seem very favourable.
8,19 For example, the illiteracy rate has fallen  by over 4% during the past few years. In fact, since  school attendance is now 100%, it can theoretically  be taken that there will cease to be any {lliterates  once some of the older age groups of the population  have disappeared.
8.20 In between these two extremes - the young  children who are now all attending school and the  old people who will eventually disappear through the  inexorable law of nature - there is the problem of  illiteracy among adolescents between the ages of 14  and 21. This is gradually being solved thanks to the  vigorous measures taken by the Greek Government,  which, not flinching from any sacrifice and making  an effort out of all proportion to the slenderness of  its budget and the very low level of national income,  has since the beginning of the current year set up
1, 100 evening schools where attendance is compul-  sory. Last month it was decided to get up a further
500 centres of this kind, to be equipped with ade-  quate book and other material.
8,21 A factor contributing towards these satisfactory  results was the establishment, with the assistance of  Unesco experts, of an adult education research centre  at the Maraslion teacher-training college in Athens,  Its aim is to collect all documentation existing on the  subject both in Greece and in the rest of thé world,  to train a specialized staff and to integrate the prob-  lem of illiteracy in the context of a wider programme  of civic, cultural and social training.
8.22 Results so conclusively demonstrative of the  efficacy of international action are strong arguments  infavour not only ôf a continuation of the joint workbut  also of its intensification, tothe even greater benefit of  both the receiving country and the Technical Assistance  Board itself, which has the satisfaction of seeing its  efforts crowned with such resounding success,
8.23 But the Technical Assistance contribution  does not stop there: it has also produced promising  results in the field of social sciences. A social  science research and study centre attached to Athens  University is in process of formation, and averything  points to its brilliant future,
8.24 Another field of Unesco activity which has  evoked a very lively response in Greece is the Major  Project on the Mutual Appreclation of Eastern and  Western Cultural Values, -
8.25 I have no need to remind you, gentlemen, that  our country has traditionally served as a turn-table  between Europe, Asia and Africa, synthesizing ideas  and trends of diverse origin. Has it not been said  that Hellenic civilization, by projecting the Greek  polis on the scale of the then known world, fore-  shadowed the world of today?
8.26 Aas far as the immediate prospects of the  East-West Major Project are concerned, keen en-  thusiasm has been developed, both in India and Iran  and in my own country, for the implementation of a  programme of cultural exchanges designed to pro-  mote a knowledge and appreciation of the contribution  which every one of the three civilizations in question  has made. A plan of work has already been drawn  up to that end.
8.27 Our National Commiasion, which is untiring  in its splendid efforts to promote Unesco's ideals in  Greece, is confident that the competent services of  the Secretariat will give it the encouragement and  help necessary for implementing this plan,
8,28 As far as cultural activities undertaken in co-  opération with Unesco are concerned, I am happy to  announce that a large-scale symposium on the theatre  will be held in the Summer of 1962 on the ancient and  magnificent site of Epidaurus. Five non-governmental  organizations, all of which cover various aspects of  the theatre, are collaborating with our Government  in the organization, under Unesco's auspices, of this  notable event, marking the first occasion on which a  study will be made of the various modern theatre  problems of acoustics, architecture, music and  psychological impact on mass audiences.
8.29 The Greek Government, which sets great  store on this event, has already assumed full moral  and financial responsibility for organizing the  Epidaurus Festival,
8.30 The originator and director of this project is  Professor Kitsikis, who was appointed President of  the Festival by the five participating organizations,  and who is with me today as a member of my delegation.  MEETINGL x1
8.31 Lastly, thanks to the considerable widening  of Unesco's field of activities owing to the Special  Fund, Greece is in a position to consider infinitely  wider possibilities than its own resources and those  hitherto available to Unesco would have permitted  and to carry into effect a plan in which it is also  keenly interested and which is thoroughly in line  with the spirit and requirements of our age, I refer  to vocational and technical education, which is a  field where the aid of the Special Fund and of Unesco  will be invaluable to us,
8.32 1 must state in conclusion that it ie difficult  to avoid a sense of emotion and a feeling of legitimate  pride when we note the progrecs achieved by our  Organization since its inception and especially since  the tenth session of the Géneral Conference,
8.33 Unesco is, at present directed by a highly  qualified man whose lofty intelligence is equalled  only by the generosity of his feelings, and who is  seconded by brilliant assistants who help him to keep  a steady helm, Our Organization has now proved  its maturity and is developing into an instrument  capable of influencing the best brains in all parts of  the world, and thus contributing not only to the cul-  tural progress of mankind but also to its true and  ultimate goal: the creation of understanding between  peoples - an understanding on which the future peace  of mankind will be established.
9, The PRESIDENT:
1 wish to thank Mr. Averoff; for the fifteen-minute  time-limit he is so far the winner. Through the  kindness of the distinguished delegate from Germany  in deferring his speech until later this afternoon, 1  am able now to call on H.E. Mr. Habibur Rahman,  Minister of Education of Pakistan,
10,1 Mr, RAHMAN (Pakistan) :  Mr. President, fellow delegates, firat of all I  would like to express on behalf of my delegation our  pleasure and honour in participating in the eleventh  session of the General Conference of Unesco, which  is being held in this city of beauty, art and culture,
10,2 I would next like to express our joy at the  accession of a number of new Member States which  have gained their freedom recently, On behalf of  my delegation I wish to extend to them our most  cordial greetings, At this moment our thoughts are  tempered with great regret at the loss which Mexico  and France - and indeed Unesco - have suffered in  the sald deaths of two distinguished and devoted  friends of international understanding, H.E., Mr,  Pedro de Alba of Mexico, and Mr, Gaston Berger  of France. In their death Unesco has lost two great  men of letters, men of vision and wisdom, On be-  half of my delegation I wish to express our heartfelt  condolences to the delegations of Mexico and France,
10.3 Mr. President, historians of the future look-  ing back on the contemporary period may well wonder  how to term the present age. They may well des-  cribe it as a period of space, freedom and interna-  tional understanding: space which today symbolizes  the widening dimensions of scientific advance; free-  dom which denotes liberation from foreign domina-  tion; and international understanding which alone can  ensure peace and the well-being of mankind and pre-  vent the destruction of civilization.
10,4 We are living in an era of scientific technology.  The discovery of nuclear power and the dramatio con-  quest of space have given man control over forces  which, used in war, could destroy the fabric of civiliza-  tion. On the other hand, if applied for constructive  purposes these forces can be used to relieve man  from degrading toil, We hope and pray that these  forces may be used for the development of mankind  and not for its destruction, In this age of science  and technology the more advanced communities of the  world, by using the wealth of scientific knowledge and  harnessing the natural elements, have created for  themselves means of great prosperity. They have  raised the standard of living of their people and have  reduced want and disease, Today they enjoy a stand-  ard of living which would have been beyond their reach  without the téchnological revolution which they were  able to bring about, .
10.5 Unfortunately, this technological revolution  has widened the existing gulf between the more ad-  vanced and the underdeveloped countries, This is a  real threat to peace. Millions of people in different  parts of the world are suffering from poverty,  disease and hunger, In such conditions how can peace  and goodwill be secured among peoples of the world?  The main problem in these countries is the develop-  ment of their human and material resources, They  need means to modernize agriculture, to harness the  waters of their rivers, to multiply the resources of  power. Whether it is In the irrigation of arid wastes,  or the eradication of disease or the batile against  ignorance, no effective headway can be made without  the help of modern technological advance. These  countries, particularly in Asia and Africa, lack the  means but not the will to develop their resources. I  venture to suggest that it is the obligation of the more  advanced countries to extend to them help to develop  their economic resources and technical competence.  It 1e my fervent hope that this help will be forth-  coming in abundant measure.
10.6 -Mr, President, this period of history will  for ever be remembered for the emancipation of large  areas of the world from foreign domination. Pakistan  gained her independence some 13 years ago and many  others have become independent since then, On the  establishment of independence, the founder of our  State, Quaid-i-Azun Muhammad Ali Jinnah declared;  "Our heart and soul go out in sympathy with those  who are struggling for their freedom”. Pakistan  came into existence as a result of the desire of our  people to preserve and foster Islamic values - to up-  hold Islamic traditions of the equality of man, of  justice and fair play, As the inheritors of these  glorious traditions, we welcisme the freedom of the  new States of Africa, We believe in the peoples’  right to self-determination and it 1s the fervent hope  of my delegation that the countries still under domina-  tion will gain their freedom soon. Freedom is the  right of every country and, today, it is also the  demand of history, Let us recognize these realities
80 that freedom can be born in a spirit of friend-hip  and goodwill, rather than in violence and hatred. Jet  the parting be with dignity and cordiality. If peace is  indivisible, as indeed it is, freedom cannot be other-  wise. The world cannot live half starving, half  thriving - half slave and half free; there is no other  alternative but the brotherhood of mankind. We  MEETINGS  sincerely hope that the inevitable transition of  countries to a status of freedom will take place not  in rancour or bitterness but in amity and concord,
10.7 While science and technology have taken un-  precedented strides, the attitudes of mind upon which  depend the well-being of mankind have not kept pace  with the rhythm of scientific advance. Change has  become the keynote,of the world of today, and we  must ensure a balanced adjustment to it in our habits  of thinking also. In this context Unesco has an essen-  tial rôle to play, it can help create conditions of  understanding between peoples, Through the intelli-  gent use of mass media, through its in and out-of-  school activities, its cultural symposia and its pro-  gramme of intellectual collaboration with Member  States and non-governmental organizations, Unesco  can create a body of informed opinion to promote  international harmony, Never before in the history  of man has international understanding assumed  such urgency as it has today. It is no longer a mere  lofty ideal, it is a necessity, a challenge to man to  live in understanding or else perish, It is a re-  markable feature of the Twentieth century that today -  the survival of the individual is so intimately linked  with the survival of mankind as a whole. A peace of  substance is possible only when people are able to  know, understand, appreciate and respect one  another's ways and values of life. Unesco, working  in the fields of education, science and culture, is  most suited to create such conditions of understanding.  Today, its assets are even higher, for in our midst  we have our brothers from many African States. By  their presence, the ranks of the friends of freedom  and humanity have been greatly strengthened. Our  friends from Africa bring to Unesco cultural riches  and talents which will widen the universal perspective  of the cultural heritage of mankind,
10.8 Mr. President, we have studied with great  care the Report of the Director-General containing  his proposals for 1961-1862, It is precise, it is  lucid and its presentation is logical. For this, I  would like to pay my tribute to the Director-General,  to his qualities of wisdom and vigour; and to the  Secretariat for their devotion to duty. We appreci-  ate the emphasis placed by the Director-General on  the concentration of programme and resources, and  I am happy that Unesco as a member of the family  of the United Nations, was able to respond to the  urgent call made for assistance in Africa, This  testifies to the maturity of the Organization and to  its ability to meet urgent demands.
10.9 Today, in vast areas of the world, social  advance and economic welfare are directly tied up  with the education of the people, Indeed, education  is an indispensable means for the realization of  national plans to raise the popular standards of  living. My delegation will, therefore, support all  proposals calculated to promote social and economic  advancement, particularly in the developing countries  of Asia and Africa. In this connexion, my delega-  tion attaches great importance to the recommenda-  tions of the Karachi and the Manila Conferences, It  was my privilege, as a Minister of my country, to  inaugurate the Conference at Karachi, and I am glad  that {t was able to produce useful recommendations  which were endorsed by the Conference at Manila,  We trust that Unesco will not mise one of the most  N   PLENARY  challenging opportunities to contribute to the advance-  ment of millions of people, hy providing more adequate  assistance to the national programmes of the Asian  countries in the field of primary education, and that  the recommendations of the Karachi Conference will  find growing substance and effect.
10,10 My delegation also views with great interest  and appréciation the proposed programmes of assis-  tance to the emerging States of Africa. Freedom re-  quires social and economic progress and it is our  duty and obligation to help the new States to promote  their well-being.
10,11 My delegation attaches equally great import-  ance to the programmes of research in the arid zones,  in soil salinity, underground water ‘fesolirces and  geology, These are indeed pressing problems, on  the solution of which depends the prosperity of many  countries. Infact, Pakistan has been grappling with  these problems for some time and has already undar-  taken a number of research projects in this field. It  would, therefore, be able to participate effectively  in any programme which Unesco may undertake in  this connexion.
10.12 We also attach great importance to another  aspect of Unesco's programme, that of cultural  activities. Among these I may mention the East-  West Major Project for the Mutual Appreciation of  Cultural Values and the programme of humanistic  studies and research, Indeed, in many ways they  are vital for never before has science so much needed  the tradition of humanism. There are great oppor-  tunities for setting up a two-way traffic, a give and  take, in the field of cultural activities so as to pro-  vide a basla for better understanding between nations.  Some countries need, as we do, technicians and  machines for programmes of industrialization. But  these countries have also a great deal to contribute  in return, and the richness of their culture and  civilization should serve as a powerful force in the  promotion of understanding between peoples.
10.13 .My delegation would like to stress the im-  portance of Unesco's collaboration with international  non-governmental organizations and hopes that these  organizations, particularly those who receive finan-  cial assistance from Unesco, will continue their  efforts in the direction of geographical expansion,  not only to enlist members in thèse countries but  algo to secure their active participation in the policy-  making bodies of these organizations,
10.14 Mr, President, I would like to take this  opportunity to congratulate the Director-General for  the initiative he took in responding to the call of the  United Arab Republic and the Sudan to obtain "large-  scale financial, scientific and technical assistance  with a view to the preservation of all artistic and  historical treasures thrcatened by disappearance as  a result of the construction of the Aswan High Dam",  I am indeed happy that the Director-General's appeal  for help has received universal support, Egypt and  the Sudan are rich in historic treasures and it would  have been a tragedy if, with the construction of the  Aswan High Dam, these treasures had been lost for  ever. It would have been a loss not only to Egypt and  Sudan but to the whole world, for historic monuments  belong to all nations. My Government is taking a  special interest in this project: we have made a cash  contribution to Unesco and we are also sending a team
179  MEETINGS XI  of excavation experts, led by our Director-General  of Archaeology. We are proud of our own historic  monuments and l'ai confident that Unesco and the  United Arab Republic and Sudanese authorities will  find the collaboration of our experts useful. We have  algo set up a national committee to maintain close  contact with this project.
10,15 I would like to éxpress our appreciation and  thanks to Unesco for the establishment of a Regional  Centre for Reading Material in Pakistan. The prob-  lems of reading materials, more and better books,  their publication and distribution are now being  studied objectively, and I have no doubt that this  Centre could help countries in that region to solve  these problems effectively, During the last two  years the Centre has madé steady progress and we  hope that Unesco will continue to give it support.
10,16 Mr, President, during the last two years  Unesco has assumed a new responsibility as execu-  tive agency for the Special Fund. It is indeed grati-  fying that at long last the more developed countries  should have recognized the importance of education  as a factor in economic development and enabled  the Special Fund to include it as one of its beneficiaries.  It appears from the appropriate documents that Unesco  has already processed a large number of requests  from Member States and that, in some cases, a  programme of implementation has already begun.  Pakistan is one of those countries, It 18 undertaking,  with assistance from the Special Fund, a major pro-  gramme of engineering education in the context of  the Indus water settlement, We ave grateful to  Unesco for processing our request with commendable  speed and efficiency. My delegation fully supports  the rôle of Unesco in this programme.
10.17 There is one matter to which I must draw  the attention of the Director-General. In the view  of my delegation it is essential that the Secretariat  of Unesco should be truly international in the '¢ompo-  sition of its staff. This is necessary not only for  political reasons, but for the very aims and objects  of Unesco and for the implernentation of its programme.  We do not believe that the principles of competence  and geographical distribution are incompatible.  Talent for such varied programmes as those of  Unesco is not restricted exclusively tô particular  areas of the world or to any particular country with-  in a geographical area, We realize that it 18 the duty  of Member States to put up the names of their most  competent candidates and we are convinced that  persons can be found in these countries who will  satisfy both the criteria of competence and of geo-  graphical distribution. My delegation notes with  appreciation that some improvement has been  achieved but feels that the pace needs to be  quickened,
10.18 Mr, President, the world is distracted, it  is divided into conflicting groups, It is for Unesco,  for all of us assembled here and many others en-  gaged in the pursuit of education, science and cul-  ture to influence the minds of men and, more  important, the minds of governments againat poli-  tical and economic domination. It is for us to preach  the gospel of the equality of man, of justice and  tolerance; it 1s for us to show to the world that man  can live in peace with his neighbours, with understand-  ing and respect for the rights of others.   X1 PLENARY MEETINGS
11. The PRESIDENT:
1 call upon H,E, Mr. Tuncel, Minister of Educa-  tion of Turkey and a member of the Executive Board.
12,1 Mr, TUNCEL (Turkey) (Translation from the  French):  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, we are  once again gathered in the name of a lofty ideal which  brings together the best representatives of all nations  of the world in order to study jointly the problems of  education, science and culture and to promote judicious  and fruitful exchanges in these fields for the greater  benefit of mankind,
12,2 it is therefore a signal honour for me to greet,  in the name of my country, all the representatives  of the Member States who have met together here in  such a noble and worthy endeavour, It is particularly  agreeable to me, moreover, to greet you in the name  of my colleagues of the Government of National Union,  the Head of which has since 27 May last been striving  unflaggingly, with the help of the whole nation, to re-  establish a truly democratic régime in our country,  For your reassurance, ladies and gentlemen, I may  tell you that the revolution of 27 May is restoring  to our country, after a lapse of ten years, that  democratic régime whose guiding principles were  very clearly and unambiguously laid down at the time  of the proclamation of the Republic by Atatürk, the  founder of the new Turkey, whose doctrines our  people cherish as immutable, What might be called  the royal road opened by that great guide's outstand-  ing personality is now cleared of all the obstacles  and impediments which threatened to involve our  country in grave danger,
12.3 Immediately after the revolution, our  Government, mindful of its international undertakings  and faithful to the beat democratic traditions, set to  work on the problem of providing education for the  whole of the population, I can state that problems  of education, sclence and culture occupy a truly pre-  eminent place {n our Government's programme of  activities, and that the work of Unesco interests us  in the highest sense of the word. As between these  problems, all the competent services of my Ministry  very naturally focus special attention, on the eradica-  tion of illiteracy, fundamental education and adult  education, I need scarcely add that the proposed  programme and budget of our organization has our  full support in this connexion, and that we ourselves  are fully determined to implement whatever resolu-  tions you see fit to adopt on those subjects, It is  our conviction, furthermore, that education, science  and culture are no longer the preserve of a handful  of people traditionally regarded as the depositaries  of universal values but should be brought within the  reach of the whole population of our countries with-  out delay, We heartily welcome, therefore, the  participation of the new States of the African continent  in Unesco: the time when their arrival at an interna-  tional gathering might have been regarded, by sheer  force of habit, as an invasion, 18 happily past and  done with, We therefore greet them with the utmost  cordiality, and with best wishes for the happiness  and prosperity of their peoples, who will not fail -  of that we are sure - to make an active contribution  to world culture with all the human warmth of lively  sympathy. Once again we experience that joy, so
180  seldom felt, of being at long-last understood. This  re. establishment of values will undoubtedly help to  enrich our discussion to a notable degree.
12,4 Before briefly submitting a few comments  on the Director-General's progress reports, I  would like to pay tribute to the memory of three  eminent men who have departed from us aince the  last session of the General Conference. Iam sure  that the delegation of Denmark will not fail to evoke  the memory of Professor Jacob Nielsen who, from  the very first days of our Organization's existence,  devoted himself to its work with the utmost zeal.  His friends on the Executive Board will, of course,  be able to say more about the outstanding contribu-  tion which he made in the field of natural sclences.  This assembly, and especially the Executive Board,  have just been abruptly bereft of a truly attractive  and warmly human personality - that great Mexican  intellectual of the old school, our friend Pedro de  Alba, who was always a whole-hearted champion of  the communion of human minds and freedom of  thought. He was as universal a thinker as could be  wished, of the type which is always needed in an age  so sadly divided against itself. And lastly, we would  like to convey our sincere condolances to France,  and especially to the French National Commission  for Unesco, on the loss of Gaston Berger - a great  scholar in whom strength of mind and clarity of  thought were most admirably combined,
12,5 I now come to the evaluation of the work of  the Organization in 1958-1959 and the first eight  months of 1960. To begin with I find it difficult to  express sufficiently our overwhelming satisfaction  at the results achieved in the various fields of  activity. Since the present is the stuff of which the  future is made, it can be sald the results are calcu  lated from all points of view, to help forward the  work and activities of the Organization. The con-  centration of activity on certain problems of  primary importance - so often recommended by the  Conference - has at last been achieved as completely  as possible. The Director-General's reports bring  this out, we think, fairly clearly.
12,6 It is right and practical to distinguish, in  the Regular programme, between types of activity  which are clearly different one from the other. The  integration of activities financed from sources out-  side the Organization's buliget has undoubtedly in-  creased the effectiveness of Unesco's work during  the past two years. This idea, which seems to be  more marked in the new proposed programme and  budget, has a definite practical value which may en-  sure real unity when it comes to implementing the  various resolutions. But the fact remains, if I  may be allowed to say so, that activities financed  from sources outside the Organization's budget  ought not to be regarded, merely because they are  incorporated in the chapters of the programme, as  forming an integral part of those chapters, which  cover activities financed from the Unesco budget  proper. In other words, integration ought not to  affect, to any excessive degree, and to the advantage  of general activities, the sums intended for activi-  ties financed from sources outside the budget.
12.7 Among the general activities, I would like to  make particular mention of those based on collabora-  tion between Unesco and the non-governmental   PLENARY MEETINGS XI  organizations, The Director-General's reports give  a very favourable {dea of them, and I would like to  congratulate him on these examples of fruitful co-  operation, However, I may perhaps be allowed to  say in this connexion that it would be desirable to  fix the amount of subventions in accordance with  criteria which would offer greater possibility of  working in the fields in which Unesco {s competent  by applying, say, a system of rotation. In other  words, it would be correct and practical to make a  strict choice between non governmental organizations  so as to avoid enlarging the list indefinitely and to  render this collaboration - ao often advocated by our  delegation - more effective, We also feel that this  collaboration should be extended to specialized  governmental organizations which could play a useful  part in Unesco's activities. The International Bureau  of Education in Geneva, might be cited as a striking  example of an organization of this kind, We would  consider it desirable, and even essential, in the inter-  ests of effective collaboration with that body, that the  recommendations of the International Conference on  Public Education should be brought to the notice of  Member Siates as well as to that of Unesco, and that  their special fmportance for the Organization's  educational programme should be underlined.
12.8 While recognizing the significance of the  special activities, I should like to urge the applica-  tion of the principles adopted at the tenth session of  the General Conference as far as assistance to  organizations set up by Unesco, or under its auspices
1s concerned, We consider this to be of paramount  importance for the general economy of the programme.
12.8 Turning to the Major Projects, we aire particu-  larly satisfied with the progress made during the  period under review in connexion with the Mutual  Appreciation of Eastern and \Vestern Cultural Values,  The plan of action, which had been drawn up with  great care, has aroused a great deal of interest in  the circles concerned in the Member Statcu, I should  like, on this point, to remind the assembly that a  umber of National Commissions - among which I  am happy to mention those of Belgium, India, Italy,  the United States of America and Poland - have pub-  lished detailed studies and monographs which might  serve as examples for publications scheduled under  the general programme for the project in question.
12.10 As to the Major Project on Scientific Research  on Arid Lands, we wish to stress the importance of  the Organization's activities {n this field over the  past two years. The description of the work under-  taken in this connexion during the period under review  makes us very hopeful about the final stage, which  should mark the natural culmination of all the experi-  ence acquired both by Unesco and by such other bodies  as have been set up for implementing the project.  Our feeling is that the national and local co-operating  committees could assume a permanent character and  continue to function in the form of research institutes  so as not to allow the experience gained in carrying  out the Major Project to go to waste.
12,11 The reports on activities are particularly  full as regards work in the cultural field and the  enumeration of what has been done provides fresh  confirmation that the fine arts are the surest means  of bringing peoples together and an effective way of  spreading our Organization's influence. 1 would go
181  so far as to say that if we desire the maintenance  of spiritual values we must foster among our peoples  a love of art, which is not always and necessarily  aimed at the utilitarian and immediate, but at the  universal, as the goal of Unesco's programme,
12.12 In education, our Government follows  Unesco's activities with particular interest. Educa-  tional problems are at present of supreme import-  ance for the advancement of our country, The docu-  ment submitted to our Conference on Unesco's co-  operation with the International Development  Association will receive our full support in conse-  quence. i
12.13 Ishall nottry your patience by dwelling on the  endless variety of resolutions which our Member States  have been able to implement, I should like, however,  to express my vast admiration for the work done by  all the members of the Secretariat under Mr, Vittorino  Verunese's direction. Having been in the privileged  position of being able to judge the Secretariat's work  at very close quarters, I can state that it is truly  capable of implementing our programme resolutions  to the hilt,
12.14 The new proposed programme and budget  constitutes, in this connexion, a document worthy of  all praise, both for the high intellectual qualities of  our Director-General and hia staff and for the devotion  of the Secretariat members to the tasks entrusted to  them.
12.15 In conclusion, I have pleasure in informing  you of two decisions which the Government of National  Union has just taken. The first relates to the interna-  tional campaign for safeguarding the monuments of  Nubia. Despite the difficult economic conditions we  are experiencing, our country will make its very  modest financial contribution to the campaign. The  second decision relates to the twelfth session of the  General Conference of Unesco. 1 know that our  Executive Board has already recommended that it  be held in 1962 in Paris. Owing to circumstances  beyond our control, we were unable to invite you in  good time to hold the session on the shores of the  Bosphorus, in the ancient city of Istanbul. I never-  the less submit this proposal to you on behalf of my  country, and so acquit myself of averyagreeable task,  On the other hand I regret to say that I must take my  leave of this assembly in order to return to my post  tomorrow morning and temporarily deprive myself  of the pleasure of being with you. And so in bidding  you farewell, I agk you to accept my warmest thanks,  and express my good wishes for the Conference's  full success.  (Mr. Kahuda took the Chair).
13. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Russian);  Esteemed delegates, let us continue our meeting.  I call upon H.E. Mr. Yañez, Head of the Mexican  delegation.
14.1 Mr. YANEZ (Mexico) (Translation from the  Spanish);  Mr, President, and fellow delegates, speaking  at this international gathering, the Mexican delega-  tion on behalf of the people and Government of Mexico,  pays tribute to the memory of His Excellency Don   xl PLENARY MEETINOS  Pedro de Alba, who was snatched away from us in the 14,10 However, we must express forthright reserva.  full flower of his life, from that very field where for  years he had tirelessly laboured in the service of the  noblest causes of mankind.
14.2 At the same time, we wish to express Mexico's  gratitude for the many marks of sympathy we have  received on this occasion, culminating in the opening  addreases at this Conference and splendidly echoed a  few minutes ago in the remarks of the Head of the  Turkish delegation, We are particularly moved by  the fact that all these expressions of condolence are  at one in extolling those qualities which made Dr, de  Alba so exemplary a man, at once thoroughly Mexican  and universal,
14.3 Yesterday, 20 November, Mexico commemo-  rated the 50th anniversary of the Revolution, the pro-  gramme of which is based on the principles of social  justice, and in its outward projection upholds the  principles of national sovereignty, non-intervention  and the equality of all States in law.
14.4 Pursuant to this last-mentioned principle,  Mexico is probably the first country to have raised  all its diplomatic missions to the rank of Embassies.  But the object of legal equality should be the achleve-  ment of economic and cultural equality and the trans-  formation of international solidarity into mutual aid  directed to the solution of problems of unequal develop-  ment, an idea luminously expressed by Don Adolfo  Lopéz Mateos, the President of Mexico, when he  declared on taking office: '' We join with the democra-  tic powers in offering all peoples the possibility of  obtaining a life free from tyranny, fear and injustice:  for us, the ideal of international co-operation con-  tinues to be that of mutual aid against these conimon  enemies of mankind".
14.5 As far as economic and cultural development  are more particularly concerned, the President  personally reaffirmed these principles at the Head-  quarters of the Organization of the American States  on 12 October 1059,
14.6 Mexico has never departed from this doctrine,  nor grudged ite co-operation in carrying it into effect.  Following on that great Mexican, Benito Juârez,  styled " Worthy Son of America", who coined the  aphorism: "Between nations as between individuals,  peace means respect for the rights of others",  Mexico today holds that peace between nations, as  between individuals, is based on political, economic  and cultural equality, and on mutual respect and aid.
14.7 Mexico accordingly welcomes the arrival, in  the comity of nations of countries which have recently  achieved self-government and is proud of having con-  tributed towards this achievement,
14.8 For the same reason, the Mexican delegation  approves in particular the gection of the Director-  General's raport dealing with assistance to these new  Member Stutes, with due regard to the correct bal-  ance appropriate to an international organization and  without forgetting that there are other regions where  assistance is necessary at different levels in connex-  ton with various categories of educational, scientific  and cultural problems,
14.9 On the subject of cultural equality, the item  concerning the prohibition of discrimination in educa-  tion is worthy of Maxico's support in strict accord-  "ance with the definition given in Article 1 of the draft  Convention and Recommendation.
182  tions, which we intend to motivate, regarding the  enunciation of certain paragraphs of the document.  Our reagons are as follows: firstly, they go beyond  the terms of the General Conference resolution which  provided the basis for the draft texts now submitted  for our consideration; secondly, they introduce  questions which aré cortroversial inasmuch as they  affect the constitutional principles of States, and  this fact would detract from their universality; and  lastly, they turn aside, away from the simple and  direct condemnation of discrimination in education, or  at least make it less pointed,
14.11 An outstanding feature of the report of  Mexican activities corresponding to the Unesco pro-  gramme for 1058-1859 is the 11-year plan designed  to solve the problem of primary education in the  Republic, Under this plan, by 1870, the estimated  needs of 7,195,000 pupils will have been met, in-  volving annual increases to a final total figure of  an additional 67,000 teachers, 27,440 classrooms  and 18,000 teachers' homes in rural areas, 23,650  classrooms in urban areas, the renovation of 39, 000  existing schools, and the supply of furniture and  teaching material, all of which involves an extra  budget of 4, 804 million pesos. For the first time  in Mexico's history the present education budget  amounts to 18% of the Federal budget, The author-  ized expenditure up to 1 September 1860 amounted to
2,045 million pesos, which means that Mexico is  providing 5, 500, 000 pesos a day for education, quite  apart from the many large grants by the governments  of the various Federated States and the municipal  authorities, and the equally large ones by the private  sector.  t4.12 In the first year of operation of the plan,
4, 204 primary teachers' posts have been created  and 2, 646 classrooms built in rural areas and 1,052  in urban areas, With the co-operation of the National  Publicity Council, using the press, radio, cinema  and television, a large-scale public campaign is being  conducted to restore and equip existing schools,
14.13 One basic feature of the Plan is the free  supply of textbooks and copy books (specimens of  these have been presented to the delegates) to all  primary school children in the country, a fact which  opens up education to all and permits the spiritual  integration of all Mexican children into communal  life. Up to the present, 17 million volumes corres."  ponding to the first four grades at primary school  have been printed at a cost of 36 million pesos,
14.14 A study of this great effort on Mexico's  part in connexion with the Major Project on the  Extension and Improvement of Primary Education in  Latin America, brings us to the problem of a popula-  tion growth outstripping economic and technical re-  sources in many countries, Meanwhile, it would  appear that present teaching methods could benefit  by making fuller use of the resources which science  and modern techniques have placed at their disposal.
14,16 This indicates what a good thing it would be  if Unesco saw the necessity of applying large-scale  measures to expedite thetask of investigating, discover-  ing, trying out and initiating methods and techniques  whichin a dynamic, effective and revolutionary manner  would increase resources, offset deficlences and  satisfy the needs of populations growing too rapidly.   PLENARY
14.16 We had the pleasure in March of receiving  the Director-General in Mexico. The postive results  of his visit include the negotiations concerning CREFAL.  Its budget is about to undergo a considerable reduc-  tion, although Mexico will benefit from the maintenance  until the end of 1964, of the subvention granted - an  undoubted mark of recognition of the Centre's utility.
14.17 It 18 understandable that aid furnished to  operations of this kind cannot be unlimited; however,  experience affords examples showing the unsatisfac-  toriness of setting fixed terms for major enterprises,  Inspired by the lofty principle of solidarity, Mexico  has proposed the setting up of a Committee to nego-  tiate a new statute for CREFAL as an inter-American  or Latin American body on the termination of the  Unesco subvention in 1964, As a last resort, the  Government would take over the Centre which would  then become a national centre.
14.18 The projects dealt with in the Natural  Sciences chapter, and particularly the provisions for  the next two year period for fellowships and for re-  search relating to natural resources seem over-  modest and should receive greater attention from the  Conference. In Mexico, the treatment of the indi-  genous communities 18 based on the principle of the  abaolute equality of all inhabitants of the Republic,  and of the cultural rather than racial nature of the  differences between them and of the resultant prob-  lems, which should be resolved by the methods of  social anthropology.
14.19 During the past two-year period, three new  co-ordinating centres for Indian affaira have been  set up in Oaxaca, Yucatan and the Cora Huichol area.  Like the centres already in existence, their aim is  the complete acculturation of the Indians by the above-  mentioned methods, and their integration in the social,  economic and political life of the country by persua-  sion, example and assistance, but never by coercion,
14.20 In this connexion, we are happy to ba able to  cite the unanimous testimony of eminent investigators  of various nationalities regarding Mexico's progress  as regards the development of the indigenous communi-  ties and the use of techniques based on applied social  anthropology. We therefore consider that it would  be to the advantage of Unesco, through its Department  of Social Sciences, to carry out a thorough investiga-  tion in certain regions of Mexico in order to make a  comparative evaluation of this work.
14.21 It was pointed out by the Mexican National  Commission that the Social Science programme  occupied a secondary place in Unesco even when it  came to Technical Assistance contributions. And  this at a time when the importance of these sciences  is growing in the Latin American countries, and when  co-operation and contact with other parts of the world  is essential for training specialists. It is hoped that  these matters will be given careful consideration.
14.22 In Mexico's judgement, Unesco should con-  sider the advisability of inciuding on its permanent  staff economists specializing in problems of economic  development. The reasons are ohviovs,
14.23 The Mexican Government - and I am sure  that the same applies to the governments of all the |  Member States - has attached great significance to  the Major Project on the Mutual Appreciation of  Eastern and Western Cultural Values, which it re-  gards as the surest means of mutual understanding.  XI  MEETINGS  The plan of the College of Mexico to set up a Centre  of International Studies open to students from the 20  Latin American countries is in line with this noble  aim, and the Organization of the American States  has accordingly included the necessary funds for  this purpose in its fellowship programme,
14.24 The Mexican delegation has submitted a  draft resolution which would enlarge the ''Participa-  tion" section so as to permit the presence of univer-  sity level teachera who could explain the history and  culture of China, Japan, India, the Middle Eaet and  Africa,
14,25 Despite signed agreements, moral obliga-  tions and practices to which members of this  Organization should adhere, obstacles to the free  circulation of books in different countries and even  censorship causing particular hardship to Mexican  publications, are increasing rather than disappearing  or diminishing, We consider that Unesco should  devote its efforts to guaranteeing the principle of the  free circulation of books, subject only to restrictions  on the introduction and circulation of works conatitut-  ing a danger to national security, morality and public  order,
14.26 Like all other countries of great artistic and  archaeological wealth, Mexico is interested in the  protection and safeguarding of {ts heritage. It  accordingly proposes for consideration by the General  Conference a draft resolution authorizing the Director-  General to appoint a group of experts to study appro-  priate means of prohibiting the illicit export, import  and sale of works of art and archaeological finds,  with a view, in particular, to the preparation of a  draft international convention,
14.27 A few years ago, the discovery of the Maya  paintings of Bonampak caused a coneiderable stir in  the world. The preservation of these treasures of  Pre-Columbian art presenta difficult problems, and  our country has asked Unesco for technical ald. The  work which the Organization is about to undertake  through the International Centre for the Study of the  Preservation and Restoration of Cultural Property  centred in Rome, {s bound to arouse world interest  for the same reasons that caused the governments  and peoples to be interested in the monuments of  Nubia.
14,28 In conclusion, the Mexican delegation,  mindful of certain dangers of which all of us are  conscious, enjoins and urges that an effort be made  by all to avoid raising topics which, coming within  the purview of other bodies are liable tc distort the  nature of Unesco, an organization whose status as  the supreme sanctuary of human concord and genuine  peace we should defend.
15, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Russian};  ] thank the Minister for his statement. I call  upon Dr, Walker, the Head of the Australian delega-  tion, Dr, Walker is Australian Ambassador to  France, He was President of the fourth session of  the General Conference in 1848, and has been  Chairman of the Executive Board.
16.1 Mr, WALKER (Australia):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, first I would  like to congratulate you, Mr. President on your   XI FLENARY  occupancy of the Chair at this session, and to express  my appreciation to the distinguished delegates, who,  at the end of this long and rather active day, are still  prepared to sit here and listen for a few minutes to  the observations of the Australian delegation,
16.2 The Australian delegation desires first to  congratulate the Director.General on the record of  solid achievement presented to this session of the  General Conference, And on behalf of the Australian  delegation, on behalf of the Australian Government,  I wish to assure the Director-General and his col-  leagues of the Secretariat of the continued support of  Australia in the great work that they are undertaking.  I am sure that the vast majority of the delegations  represented at this Conference would desire to join  in dissociating themselves from the attack that was  made earlier this afternoon on some of the activities  of the Secretariat, particularly in connexion with the  Congo. We, at least, and I am sure many others  also would wish to dissociate ourselves completely  from the suggestions that were made by one import-  ant delegation for reorganization of the Secretariat  and the replacement of the Director-General by a  commission of three drawn from different groups  throughout the world. At this time I wish, and I  know many other delegations wish, to express our  confidence in our colleagues in the Secretariat and  in the Director-General and to assure them of our  continued support.
16.3 To return to Unesco after an absence of ten  years is a stimulating experience, it is good to find  again many old friends who participated in the early  planning of the Organization and its programme, It  is exciting to make new friends, including thoge from  countries which were not members in the early days,  and to share the task of reviewing Unesco's recent  activities and discussing the new developments that  lic ahead, The most striking change in Unesco since  I last attended a General Conference is the growth of  membership, not only in numbers but in its repre.  sentation of the peoples of the world; the diversity  of cultures, the variety of political and economlo  systems, and the differing degrees of industrial  development of the modern world are more completely  reflected tlian ever before. This trend is undoubtedly  in accordance with the hopes of those who founded  Unesco and opens up a wide sphere of service to man-  kind, On behalf of the Australian delegation, I wish  to extend a warm welcome to the delegations of the  Member States and Associate Members who have  recently joined our number, and to assure them all of  our desire to co-operate closely with them in the  furtherance of the noble aims of this Organization,  The association with our work of the newly independent  States of Africa and other countries that are preparing  for self-government will undoubtedly bring a valuable  contribution to the cross-fertilization of the world's  cultures, as well as offering a stirring cliallenge to  us all to assist these newly independent countries to  develop their educational systems and tu raise their  standards of living. ,
16.4 Along with the growth in the size of our  Organization there has been a considerable increase  in the participation of Member States in the work of  Unesco. In the very early days of the Organization  there was a tendency in some quarters to identify  Unesco with its Secretariat alone, and to think of the
184  MEETINGS  Organization as a sort of central Institution financed  and assisted by member governments but largely  independent of them in its operations. Ittookquitea  struggle, for instance, In the early days to break  down the idea that relations between the Secretariat  and the Member States were part of the external  relations of the Organization, Yet from the beginning  it was apparent that Unesco's contribution to interna.  tional co-operation in education, science and culture  would be very limited unless, and until, Member  States played their part in the execution as well as  in the planning of Unesco's programme, It is en-  couraging to note, Mr. President, the greater scope  that Unesco's present programme offers to Member  States for participation in the Organization's activi.  ties and the extent to which the Secretariat today is  occupied in providing services requested by Member  States and by national and international bodies con-  cerned with education, science and culture,
16.5 Of special interest is the development of  Unesco's Participation programme, under which the  Secretariat assists Unesco activities being under-  taken by Member States on an individual or a regional  basis. These methods of working in close associa-  tion with Member States are all the more essential  at a time when Unesco is called upon to assist the  less developed countries of the world, particularly  in Africa, Asia and Latin America, in the gigantic  task of educating their people. If Unesco were  primarily a centralized secretariat or institute, it  could make only a peripheral contribution to this  problem. It is because Unesco can help to mobilize  the generosity of wealthier, educationally more  developed countries, and can lielp to organize inter-  national co-operation in this field, that its influence  can be go effective,
16,6 In the last resort, of course, much of the  burden and the costs of educational development will  fall upon the people of the developing countries them-  selves. In the main it will be African teachers, for  instance, who will teach African children to read  and write, and In the long run it will be African tax-  payers who will find the money for the teachers!  salaries. The task of the more developed countries,  and the international agencies such as Unesco, is to  help the less industrialized countries to lay the  foundations for their future economic aud educational  growth, The basic problem for these countries is to  increase their productivity and to organize their  economic systems and their apparatus of government  in such a way as to ensure that, in due course, the  necessary money and the human resources can con-  tinue to be found to support modern educational  services.
16,7 International assistance, both in money and  fn men, can be of crucial importance in the early  stages, but it should be directed chiefly towards  initiating and supporting undertakings for which the  country itself can progressively t«ke the main re-  sponsibility. Unesco has already had a good deal  of experience in initiating and fostering national and  international programmes in education, science and  culture, programmes which once they have a good  start have attracted sufficient financial support from  governments and other sources to carry on more or  leas under their own steam, It is of course import-  ant that Unesco's direct assistance and participation   PLENARY MEETINGS  in such undertakings should not be prematurely with-  drawn; it should be continued until it is clear that  sufficient momentum has been gained to ensure sus-  tained progress in the future,
16.8 The Arid Zone project is an example of a  successful undertaking that has stimulated much im-  portant work internationally and in Member States.  It was intended to run as a Major Project until 1862  and haa undoubtedly already gained much momentum.  We hope, Mr, President, that its completion as a  Major Project will not prevent further support from  Unesco for such activities as circumstances may re-  uire.
16.9 Mr. President and fellow delegates, this is  an exciting stage in the development of Unesco, be-  cause we see great new tasks looming ahead, The  most significant historical development since the  war has undoubtedly been the emergence of many  fndependent States consisting of peoples who have for  varying perinds been under colonial rule, Some of  these new States were ancient nations that have long  rurtured the hopes of regaining their former inde-  pendence and urdty. In other cases, the perlod of  colonial rule has itself contributed to.the promotion  of nationhood and to the construction of political units  that are now providing the framework for new States,  In all cases, these emerging independent States have  to find their feut in a world that has undergone vast  changes, The progress of science and industry has  made possible the raising of living standards and the  provision of a better life for the masses of the people,  and governmants have accepted a much greater degree  of responsibility for ensuring the economic and social  well-being of their people. This is a double revolu-  tion, world-wide in its impact, and it is by no means  confined to the group of countries that describe them-  selves as socialist, though there is much variation  in the scope and nature of government action, The  newly independent States, too, must accept similar  responsibilities towards their peoples.
16.10 At the same time, while the assumption of  responsibility by governments for the well-being of  their people has been primarily on a national basis,  there has also been a great advance in the sentiment  of human solidarity, a growing recognition of thu  need for industrially advanced and highly organized  countries to come to the aid of those that are at an  earlier stage of development, so that they too may  be assisted to modernize their methods of production  and their economic and social structures in order to  hasten the day when their peoples alao can share  fully in the better life that modern science and industry  offers mankind,
16.11 In this transformation of the economic and  social life of developing countries, education and  science have a crucial rôle to play - one which is  just as important as the accumulation of material  capital, Indeed, the development of education and  science may be regarded as a form of investment,  of positive addition to the means of production of  these countries, So it comes about that not only has  the activity of Unesco gradually increased through  the growth of its membership and through the partici-  pation of Member States in its Regular programme,  but the world community has also placed at Unesco's  disposal additional funds for specific projects contri-  buting to the economic development of less
185  MI  industrialized and, in many cases, newly independ-  ent countries. In particular the United Nations  Expanded Programme of Technical Assistance and  the Special Fund have virtually doubled the financial  resources for the use of which Unesco has become  responsible. This {8s a major change in the rôle cf  Unesco and it reflects not only the world-wide  acknowledgement of the significance of education as  a factor in economic and social development, but  also the recognition that Unesco, through its pro.  gramme, has built up a body of experience and  administrative structure and a capacity for action on  an international scale, Thia growth in Unesco's  responsibility is a very welcome one, but it poses  some serious problems for the Organization; per-  haps the most immediate and most obvlous {8 the  staffing problem, Unesco is already encountering  difficulty in attracting and retaining the services of  men and women of stature to direct some parts of  the Regular programme. And it will be by no means  easy to find the people with appropriate qualifications  and experience in sufficient numbers to carry ont the  new action programmes.
16,12 Many countries are finding it difficult to  staff their own expanding educational services, In  Australia, for instance, which had six universities  before the war, there are today ten universities;  yet our Universities Commission has just recom-  mended to the Government the establishment of three  more universities over the next six years to provide  for the expansion of student numbers, Where the  extra teaching staff 18 to come from 18 another  question, Many countries are facing similar prob-  lems and Unesco will have to make a special ‘ippeal  to Member States to provide, even at real sacrifice  to themselves, the personnel that will be needed  both in Unesco Headquarters and in the field,  Secondly, these new activities of Unesco raite prob-  lems for the general organization of policy planning,  Unesco is still struggling with the problem of how to  enable the General Conference to exercise effective  control over the Regular programme while allowing  the Secretariat to concentrate on its execution, In  the earlier years of the Organization, when this  General Conference met annually, the Secretariat  often felt that it had to give so.much time ts pre-  paring the following year's programme and to  revising it in the light of the decisions of the General  Conference, that it had little or no time left to carry  it out. We have moved away from that situation,  but the question must now be asked whether the  General Conference exercises any effective control  over the programme at all, except through the  determination of the budget ceiling. Many govern-  ments include in their delegation specialists In  particular fields of the programme who nre closely  associated with Unesco National Commissions, 1  am afrald, however, that most of these specialists  tind little opportunity in the complex proceedings of  the Conference to apply their expert knowledge to  the shaping of the programme. That some of them  feel frustrated reflects a weakness in our methods,  for Unesco's standing in Member States depends a  good deal on the enthusiasm of experts in particular  fields who are associated with the National Commissions.
16,13 The difficulty of defining the rôle of the  General Conference in relation to the programme is   XI PLENARY  further complicated by the fact that Technical Assis.  tance and Special Fund activities of Unesco are not  part of the Regular programme, and are not sub-  mitted for consideration of an approval by the Con-  ference, The control over these action programmes,  in so far as it exists, lies with the Technical Assis-  tance Board and Special Fund in New York and not  with the General Conference of Unesco.
16,14 Mr, President, fellow delegates, possibly  the solution of these problems is to recognize frankly  that the general shape of Unesco's programme has  already been defined and that it is not susceptible of  detailed examination and revision at every session of  the General Conference, Perhaps the Director-  General and Executive Foard should submit to the  General Conference, together with reports on the  work accomplished, only proposals for important  changes in the emphasis of the programme, including  any proposals for major new projects. At each  session of the General Conference time might be  devoted to a review, in some detail, of the work that  has actually been done and of future plans in a few  selected fields, This would give specialist members  of delegations an opportunity to establish closer  personal contact with members of the Secretariat  and also to gain a deeper knowledge of what Unesco  is actually doing, as distinct from the future pro-  grammes nominally approved by the Conference,  Such review should include not only a few selected  fields of the Regular programme (different fields  being selected for successive sessions of the General  Conference) but also the work actually being done  under the new action programmes that Unesco is  undertaking for the Technical Assistance Board and  the Special Fund, Mr, President, I submit these  suggestions to the Executive Board and the Director-  General for their consideration in planning the next  session of the General Conference.
16,15 It seems to me that the influence of Member  States upon the Regular programme and upon these  new action programmes is more likely to be exerted  in the future through consultation and correspondence  with the Director-General and the Executive Board  between sessions of the General Conference than in  the course of the General Conference itself,
16.16 At the same {ime, Mr, President, I think  we should endeavour to raise the intellectual level  of our General Conferences and the general reputa-  tion of Unesco by concentrating our attention on a  more limited number of issues that are clearly  within the competence of the Organization, We  should resist the temptation to fight over again, in  this forum, political and propaganda battles that  have been lost or are still unresolved in other,  more appropriate arenas,
16,17 Mr. President, Uneaco has many concrete  achievements to its credit, but perhaps one of ito  most significant achievements is something less  tangible, namely Uneaco's continued capacity to  arouse hope. If, as the leader of the Soviet delega-  tion rather surprisingly reminded us the other day,  wars begin in the minds of men, so Mr, President,  does hope; hope for peaceful co-operation in the  building of a better world. Unesco must not only  continue to nourish this hope; we must also see to it  the hope that Unesco arouses does not go unfulfilled,
17. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Russian):  Thank you, Mr, Walker, Fellow delegates,  today's plenary meeting has concluded. The next  meeting will be tomorrow at 10,30 a,m. The first  speaker will be Mr, Sattler Head of the delegation of  the Federal Republic of Germany. I declare the  meeting closed,  ‘The meeting rose at 6,40 p.m.