TWENTY -FIRST PLENARY MEETING
3 December 1960, at 3,45 p.m,  President: Professor Lieutenant-General PHYA SALVIDHANNIRES (Thailand)  CONTENTS  Setting up of the Working Party of the General Conference  on Methods of Preparingthe Programme an“ Budget . . .  Place of the Twelfth Session of the General Conference
331  Consideration ofthe Second Report of the Credentials Com-  mittee. . . +.» + + + + +0  SETTING UP OF THE WORKING PARTY OF THE GENERAL  CONFERENCE ON METHODS OF PRÉPARING THE PROGRAMME  AND BUDGET
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  The twenty-first plenary meeting is hereby called  to order. The first item on the agenda to be cori-  sidered is the setting up of the working party of the  General Conference on methods of preparing the  programme and budget. The General Committee has  already considered this matter and has recommended  that a special working party should study this question  on the basis of doéuments 11 C/45 and 11 C/DR. 34.
1.2 The General Committee recommended that the  working party should be composed of representatives  of the following 25 Member States: Argéntina, Brazil,  Ceylon, Chile, Czechoslovakta, El Salvador, France,  India, Iran, Italy, Japan, Liberia, Madagascar,  Mexico, Lebanon, New Zealand, Nigeria, Poland,  Rumania, Sweden, Switzerland, Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics, United Arab Republic, United  Kingdom, United States of America. I trust that this  recommendation of the General Committee is accept-  able to the General Conference,
1.3 If there are no objections, the working party  on methods of preparing the programme and budget  is thus established with the membership as I have  just read out.
1.4 Since there are no objections this is agreed,  and the working party will hold its first meeting in  the afternoon of 9 December and continue itz work in  the morning and afternoon of 10 December and in the  afternoon of 12 December.  PLACE OF THE TWELFTH SESSION OF THE GENERAL  CONFERENCE
1.5 We now come to the second item on the agenda,  the decision, on the report of the Executive Board,  concerning the place of the twelfth session of the  General Conference. In accordance with Rule 2 of  the Rules of Procedure, the General Conference  shall fix the seat of its next session on the proposal
331  of the Executive Board. The proposal of the Executive  Board is contained in document 11 C/27 which has  been distributed to all delegations.
1.6 I call upon the Chairman of the Executive Board,  Sir Ben Bowen Thomas, to present the Board's  report on this matter.
2.1 Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom),  Chairman of the Executive Board;  Mr. President and fellow delegates, in the docu-  ment before you, 11 C/27, you will see in paragraph
2, the second paragraph of the Executive Board's  report to the General Conference, that no Member  State had invited the General Conference to hold the  twelfth session of the Conference on its territory.  Accordingly, in paragraph 4, the Executive Board  recommends that the General Conference hold its  twelfth ordinary session at the permanent headquarters  in Paris. That is the Board's recommendation with  regard to place.
2.2 With regard to date, you will see that the  Director-General makes a recommendation, after  consultation with the Executive Board, in paragraph
7. The Director-General, in agreement with the  Executive Board, recommends that the opening date  of the twelfth session of the General Conference shall  be during the first half of November 1962.
2.3 Both these proposals are contained in the draft  resolution which I now submit for adoption by the  General Conference.
3.1 The PRESIDENT:  Does any delegate wish to speak on the report  which has just been presented to the Conference by  Sir Ben Bowen Thomas? ’
3.2 The resolution is adopted and I take it that the  Conference has decided that its twelfth session shall  take place at the Organization's headquarters in Paris.  CONSIDERATION OF THE SECOND REPORT OF THE  CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE
3.3 We now come to an important item, the report   “XXI  of the Credentials Committee, I call on H,E. Mr.  Matsui, Chairman of the Credentials Committee, to  present his report.
4.1 Mr. MATSUI (Japan), Chairman of the Cred-  entials Committee (Translation from the French):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the  Credentials Committee held its second meeting on  Friday, 2 December 1960, for the purpose of exami-  ning the credentials received from certain Member  States after the first meeting of the committee and,  in particular, the credentials presented by the dele-  gation of the Republic of the Congo (Capital:  Leopoldville).
4.2 ‘The committee noted that the delegations of a  certain number of States which had already presented  provisional credentials had later, in conformity with  Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference, presented credentials in good and due  form tasued by the head of the State or Government,  the Minister of Foreign Affairs or a Minister  authorized by the Minister of Foreign Affairs to  issue credentials. The States concerned were:  Albania, Austria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cameroun,  Chile, Colombia, Cuba, El Salvador, France, Gabon,  Indonesia, Ivory Coast, Kuwait, Nigeria, Panama,  Senegal, Somalia, Tunisia, Units] Arab Republic,  United Kingdom, Venezuela and Yugoslavia,
4.3 The committee recommends that the delegations  of these States be formally admitted to take part in  the proceedings of the eleventh session of the General  Conference. .
4.4 The committee took note, in this connexion, of  the fact that its Chairman, by virtue of the authori-  zation he had received from the committee, had sub-  mitted direct to the General Conference verbal  reports concerning the credentials presented by the  delegations of Bolivia, Costa Rica, Mali, Paraguay  and Saudi Arabia and that those reports had been  approved by the General Conference.
4.5 The committee noted that two territories -  Mauritius and Tanganyika - which had accredited  observers to the General Conference, following on  their admission as Associate Members of the Orga-  nization, had presented credentials in due form  accrediting their delegations in this latter capacity.
4.6 . Finally, the committee took note of the  credentials presented by the delegation of the  Republic of the Congo (Capital: Leopoldville), the  text of which 1s annexed to the present report.  Varjous proposals either for the acceptance or  rejection of these credentials were made. Several  members of the committee pointed out that account  should be taken of the decision of the General  Assembly of the United Nations concerning the  credentials of the delegation of the Republic of the  Congo (Capital: Leopoldville) to the present session  of the Assembly. ,
4,7 The representatives of Bulgaria an” tLe Union  of Soviet Socialist Republics propr zéd that these  credentials should be rejectid as not having been  issued by the lawful Government of the Republic of  the Congo (Capital: Leopoldville).
4.8 The representative of Bulgaria having proposed  to defer consideration of the question until the next  session of the General Conference, this proposal was  put to the vote first and was rejected by five votes to two.  PLENARY MEETINGS  : 4,8 ‘The proposal to recommend that the General
332  Conference should accept the credentials presented  by the delegation of the Republic of the Congo  (Capital; - Leopoldville) was then put to the vote and  was adopted by five votes to two.
4.10 I should like to read to you the annex of which  you already have the text:  ‘Republic of the Congo  Ministry of Forelgn Affairs  WE, JOSEPH KASAVUBU, PRESIDENT OF THE  REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO,  Have decided to select Mr. Ignace MAKUTA, an  official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Mr.  Jean SUMBU, Director, Head of Service for Educa-  tion, and to invest them with full powers to represent  the Republic of the Congo at the eleventh session of  the General Conferençe of Unesco in Paris, and, to  that effect, we have delivered to them the present  credentials.  By the Head of State,  The President of the College of Commissaries-General,  The Commissary-General for Foreign Affairs, -  (signed) J. BOMBOKO  Given at New York, 18 November 1860"
4.11 I recommend the adoption of the second report  of the Credentials Committee by the General  Conference.
4 12 Additionally, since the committee's second  meeting, Honduras, which had only presented  provisional credentials, has now presented credentials  in due form, in accordance with Rule 22 of the Rules  of Procedure. I ask that these credentials be accepted.
5.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank H.E. Mr. Matsui for his report. The  Conference has now heard the report of the Chairman  of the Credentials Committee on the credentials of  the delegation of the Republic of the Congo (Capital:  Leopoldville) and concerning the credentials  presented by delegations of other States.
5.2 I propose that we take up the report paragraph  by paragraph, starting with paragraph 1. Are there  any comments on paragraph 1?
5.3 Since there are no comments we shall proceed  to paragraph 2. Does the delegate of Guinea wish to  speak on paragraph 2? Since there is no comment on  paragraph 2, it is adopted.
5.4 We shall now take up paragraph 3  ments? None. Paragraph 3 is adopted.
5.5 We now proceed to paragraph 4. No comment.  Adopted.
5.6 We now take up paragraph 5. No comment.  Adopted. ‘
5.7 1 would like you next to take up paragraphs 6,
7, 8 and 9. 1 call upon the delegate of Morocco,  Dr. Elmanjra.  Any com-
6.1 Mr. ELMANJRA (Morocco) (Translation from  the French):  Mr. President, gentlemen, the Moroccan delega-  tion feels that our proceedings should not be domin-  ated by political considerations or discussions.  Especially at the present session when so many  African States have been admitted and when we are  examining a very big programme for Africa, we  have much more important tasks than to be drawn  into political arguments.   PLENARY
6.3 The report submitted to us sets out the creden  tials presented by the delegation of the Republic of  the Congo (Capital: Leopoldville). The Credentials  Committee has recommended that these credentials  be accepted, We are well aware that the United  Nations has already dealt with this problem. Ido  not wish to repeat here, on behalf of the Moroccan  delegation, the same arguments which our delegate  has already advanced at the United Nations. As  regards the legitimacy of the Congolese representa-  tion, reference has been made to the Constitution of  the Congo on which are based the powers of the  President of the Republic of the Congo. In our view,  the powers of the Premier are based on the same  text, We therefore feel that it would be a contra-  diction to refer to a text and, on the basis of that  text, to support the President of the Republic while  declining to support the man whom we consider as  the lawful Premier.
6.3 It was in'order to avoid that contradiction that  we opposed in the United Nations acceptance of the  accreditation of the delegation sent by the President  of the Republic of the Congo. However, as we said  at the beginning, we do not wish to see this Confer-  ence involved in politics During this session, | am  sure everyone has heen struck by the great degree  of African unity which has emerged whenever politi-  cal problems have been set aside. We have to con-  sider educational problems, urgent problems with  which we are confronted, and, if all the goals are  to be reached towards which the African States are  striving in the field of economic, social and cultural  development it is essential that this African unity be  maintained.
6.4 I am afraid that, if a discussion begins on the  merits of the accreditation of the delegation of the  Congo (Capital: Leopoldville), that unity will be  endangered and the results we are seeking on the  non-political plane also endangered.
6.5 Moreover, as you know, things move very  fast in Africa. The United Nations has already  taken a decision on the question. But we have only  to read today's newspapers to observe the changes  that have taken place since then. Africa is a contin-  ent which ie moving and moving very rapidly. The  elements we now possess towards forming an opinion  are not those which existed when the decision was  taken at the United Nations. We might apply the  legal formula " Rebus sic stantibus" . - The conditions  existing when the United Nations voted are no longer  the same. 1 would like to quote a passage from an  editorial in today's " Monde" - a Western newspaper  which would scarcely favour the viewpoint which our  delegation supports. Speaking of the arrest of  Mr. Lumumba, of which you have been informed,  this paper writes: "His imprisonment has certainly  averted the immediate danger of civil war" , but the  same editorial continues, "If Mr. Lumumba is  summarily condemned, there is every reason to  think that the Congo will enter a new phase of  uncertainty and unrest." . |
6.6 In such a situation, Mr. President, and even  allowing for the decision already taken by the United  Nations, the Moroccan delegation feels that, since  our Organization should do its best to avoid any  concern with political issues, we should not be  required at present to decide on this question of the  MEETINGS
333  XXI  Congolese delegation's accreditation. If the matter  te put to a vote, our delegation will obviously vote as  it did at the United Nations. But we believe that  there are many new elements and it is now certain  that the United Nations will re-examine the question  of the Congo, Some say that this will probably take  place tonight in the Security Council, others believe  that, since the Congolese question is still before the  Political Committee, the re-examination will take  place later. Since the United Nations is a priori the  political organ of the United Nations system, I  belleve it should have time in which to reconsider  this question in the light of the latest developments  before an organization like ours, which is essentially  concerned with cultural, educational and scientific  questions, becomes involved, We therefore hope  that this question will not even be put to the vote and  our delegation reserves the right, by virtue of Rule
75 of our Rules of Procedure, to ask that discussion  of this queation be deferred.
6.7 On behalf of my delegation, I would like to  appeal particularly to the African delegations which  will be the first to recognize the unity so far shown -  to such an extent that delegates from African States  often forget which State is represented by colleagues  with whom they come into contact. This atmosphere  has been of the greatest value In reaching concrete  results and will undoubtedly be endangered if we  become involved in a political discussion, I likewise  appeal to those delegations which have been prompt  to ask that any political discussion be avoided when-  ever we have come close to such discussions.
6.8 [trust that we shall not see here a repetition of  what went on in the United Nations which a highly  respected English paper, "The Observer" , termed  somewhat unorthodox manoeuvres.
6.9 In conclusion, I renew my appeal, first and  foremost to the African delegations, for the preser-  vation of our unanimity and for a waiting period at  any rate until the programme to be recommended for  Africa has been submitted 10 the Programme Com-  mission. When this report is presented to the Com-  mission. we hope that Africen unity will still exist.  We have observed that this unity emerges as soon as  we get away from politics. I therefore renew my  appeal for avoidance of a political discussion in  connexion with the Congolese representation and 1  repeat that, by virtue of Rule 75 of the Rules of  Procedure, our delegation reserves the right at a  later stage to ask for the examination of this question  to be deferred so that we can do something for the  great African continent which asks that you should  not divide it.
7. The PRESIDENT:  Does the delegate of Morocco wish to put a formal  motion for adjournment of the discussion of this  question? ’
8. Mr. ELMANJRA (Morocco) (Translation from  the French): -  Mr. President, the Moroccan delegation does not  wish to impose ‘ts view on the Confsrence. If we  had proposed an immediate adjournment, by virtue  of Rule 75, you would only have been able to call on  a delegate in favour of the motion and a delegate  opposed to it. That is why we sald that we reserved   XXI PLENARY  our right for a later stage, If we were to put our  adjournment motion to the vote forthwith it would  oblige the Conference to vote on our suggestion,  whereas we belleve that there may be sevéral dele-  gations with similar or opposed viewpoints to  express, I repeat, therefore, that we reserve the  right to seek an adjournment and that we shall take  up this question formally during the discussions.
9. ‘The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Morocco and shall now  call on the Head of the delegation of the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics, Mr. Lapin.
10.1 Mr. LAPIN (Union of Soviet Soclalist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, 1 should  like to express very briefly the opinion of our dele-  gation in relation to paragraphs 6 and 9 of the report  of the Credentials Committee, ;
10.2 We are asked to take a decision which could  in fact involve Unesco in a serious and protracted  political discussion. - We might even say that Unesco  is getting embroiled in an improper political game.  For the question of course, has nothing whatever to  do with the fact that the Congo has become a member  of Unesco. The Soviet Union consistently stands for  the universality of the International organizations,  and we should be very happy to welcome representa-  tives of the Republic of the Congo here; and hope  that that time will come. But in the present case the  question ia whether the prestige of an international  organization is to be used to conceal the anti-national  political intrigues and the downright crimes which  the colonialists have indulged in in the Congo.  Everything is being done to cloak the criminal actions  of Mobutu.
10.3 A document from New York has been presented  to us. ‘This paper is not sigried by anybddy. It was  drawn up in New York, it is not a legal credential,  and hence we cannot accupt it.
10.4 The legitimate government in the Congo is the  Lumumba Goverriment, It was elected and approved  by Parliament. This fact is unchallengeable by  anyoné. Everyone knows that the Lumumba Govern-  ment, pursuing a course directed towards the  independence of its country, aroused the displeasure  of the colonialists, who have used the United Nations  as a screen and an instrument to paralysé the normal  working of the State machinery. They have suborned  the adventurer Mobutu and stirred üp éivil war in  the Congo. ' Finally, if the newspapers are to be  believed, they put handcuffs on the man who was and  remains the generally recognized leader of his  people and the legal head of the government of that  country, May this day, ‘gentlemen, go down in history  as a day of shamé for the colonlalists. ‘The nations  will never forget the perfidy and the crimes commit-  ted against the lawful government of the Congo. The  latest events in the Congo have once and for all torn  the mask from the faces of the colonial imperialists.
10.5 We have heard hypocritical words at this  Conference about the colonizers! love for the  oppressed peoples. There have been honeyed  speeches here describing colonialism as a spectre  "of the past and urging that the past must be forgotten.  The events in the Congo are helping the colonized  “  MEETINGS
334  peoples to understand who ars their friends and who  their foes. Remember Lumumba, gentlemen! rem-  ember the long suffering Congolese people! Colonial-  ism is not dead, it is still alive, and capable of  dreadful crimes. That ls what the events in the  Congo teach us.
10.6 Just imagine what will remain of the freedom  and independence of States which were once colonies,  if colonialism is thus allowed to make short shrift of  governments which it regards as unsuitable. Today  Lumumba is objected to, tomorrow it will be some  other statesman, and the government will go on  changing at the will of the colonialists like a pair of  old gloves. This cannot be permitted, for what, in  that case, will remain of the principles, embodied  in the United Nations Charter, of non-interference  in the internal affairs of nations? Human conscience  forbids us to acquiesce in that policy.
10.7 We cannot permit Unesco to be transformed  into an instrument of political intrigues directed  against the new African States or against other States,  for that matter. A discussion on the Congo is about  to take place, gentlemen, at the United Nations  General Assembly, Why, then, the hurry here?  Why do we not await that discussion? I think the  representative of Morocco is perfectly right, and  that Unesco has no reason for haste.
10.8 We therefore also propose to eliminate from  the discussion the question of the credentials of the  Congo, inasmuch as the persons presenting these  credentials are themselves the victims of political  intrigue. We propose that Unesco, as an international  organization, should forthrightly protest against the  crimes committed against the head of the lawful  government of the Republic of the Congo We are  quite sure that the entire world, the whole of the  peace loving public, will rise in defence of Lumumba  and save him from the hands of the colonialists.
11. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon H.E. Dr. Lazo, Head of the  delegation of Cuba.
12.1 Mr. LAZO (Cuba) (Translation from the  Spanish):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, as delegate of  Cuba I had asked to speak first in this debate. No  doubt the President found it impossible to accede to  my request, ahd therefore I am speaking third. I  should like to draw attention to this fact, although, of  course, it does not matter when I make my statement.
12.2 We are éertainly somewhat surprised by the  haste with which it is sought to solve the problem  before us, particularly in view of the quite different  reception which greetéd certain motions presented by  Cuba; my counti’y has had occasion to discover the  high degree of caution and delay - including deferment  until the next General Conference - which were pro-  posed in connexion with motions presented by Cuba,  despite the fact that they dealt with subjects which  concern Unesco. All this is in striking contrast to  the present instance, in which it {s sought to force  Unesco to a quick iecision,
12.3 1 should firat Like to draw the attention of the  President and my fellow delegates to a question which  influences the presént case and which is, moreover,  of a general nature - a question of procedure I   PLENARY  wonder whether it {s true; as has been said, that:  Unesco occuples such a subordinate position with  regard to the United Nations that, when the latter has  adopted a decision, it is pointless to consider it here,  It the point at issue had already been decided by that  body, and if it were true that the United Nations ~ of  which we are undoubtedly an important branch - had  been able to settle the matter once and for all, why  should we be consulted at all? In a case such as the  one now before us, if it is for the United Nations to  decide, or if the latter has already adopted, or will  shortly adopt, a resolution by which the whole affair  could be regarded as closed, why are we being  consulted? I think that this question {s sufficient to  show that even though we are an agency of the United  Nations, we have complete and full authority to take  decisions on the specific cases which come before us.
12.4 The Cuban delegation 18 not proposing to raise  a political issue here; 1 simply wish to present a  case which, in my opinion, is a matter of logic, and  also involves basic human considerations I should  like to dwell on these two expressions, which I shall  now explain,
12.5 To begin with - a question of logic, of reason-  ing There can be no doubt that at the present time  a state of confusion ‘exists in the Congo; there is no  final solution for the situation of that country, and  Cuba can only hope that the Congo will shortly be  unified and will solve its problems. There can also  be no doubt that, however many resolutions are  adopted by the United Nations and by Unesco, and  whatever international information bodies may say,  the problem of the Congo has not been solved Why  then should we anticipate ‘events by this exceptional  haste to solve the problem? Looked at in this light,  the issue is no longer a political one, but a question  of logic and of reasoning. If we asked a citizen from  any Member State represented here, regardless of  his political persuasion, whether the situation in the  Congo is finally settled, that person, whatever his  political bellefs, could only reply that the situation  awaits a solution. This is a question of fact and  logic; a question of common sense.
12 6 In addition to this, the government which is  asking for recognition, the government of thé Congo  which has presented this request, is responsible for  very serious acts 'of a human, not a political, nature.  In today's press, and not in a Cuban newspaper but  in the "New York Times", there is a description of  the arrest of Mr. ‘Patrice Lumumba: with "his  hands tied behind his back" he was taken to prison,  not in a taxi or a'car, but sitting in the back of a  lorry, amid the jeers and laughter of the soldiers.
12.7 Is this a political act, or an outrage to human  dignity? Mr. President, fellow delegates, 1 rem-  ember witnessing the departure of an ex-Presaident  of the Republic of Cuba to Miami (Florida), hand-  cuffed, after trial. And I resented this, nèt because  I was anti-North American - 1 should like to state  this clearly; I regretted it as a Cuban, I regretted  it as a man, I regretted it because the consideration  due to a person who had been the head of State of my  country was not respected.
12,8 These facts show that the methods now used  by this governinent in the Congo conflict with respect  for the individual. It could be shown that other groups  in the Congo have committed similar acts but, taken  MEETINGS XX1  all in all, what would this prove? It would merely  prove that the situation In the Congo has not been  solved, however many resolutions the United Nations  has adopted and however many resolutions Unesco  may adopt,
12.9 In the name of logic, reason and common  sense we should support the ideas expressed by the  distinguished representative of Morocco, and  suspend judgement on the present issue, By so  doing, we should avoid bringing politics into Unesco -  we should wait. Have we not waited for long periods  in other cases, and not only for motions proposed by  Cuba? Have not many intelligent, discreet and -  cautious persons in this Organization risen to ask  that we should study and re-study motions of such  universal interest aa that concerning world  information?
12.10 Were not all possible procedural issues then  raised? So why should we now hurry through a  resolution which would be both artificial and  premature?
12.11 With these words, Mr. President, fellow  delegates, 1 believe that Cuba has helped to clear up  the situation, not for any political reasons, but in the  name of Unesco's true nature, and in the name of  universal human principles such as logic, common  sense and the desire to avcid a premature resolution.
13. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon H,E, Mr. de Berredo Carneiro, Head  of the delegation of Brazil.
14.1 Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  (Translation from the French):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, it is certainly  not for non- African delegations, at any rate in the  initial stages, to take sides in a paififul problem  which has develéped within the African continent.  It is not therefore in order to take up a ‘position for  or against any representative of the Congo that I ask  your permission to speak It is, first and foremost,  in order to remind you that the links uniting Unesco  and the United Nations do not involve abstract entities  but Member States; the same Member States are  represented in both assemblies. These Member  States have divided the tasks to be fulfilled between  the two institutions: my Brazilian colleagues in the  United Nations have the prime responsibility for  deciding, on behalf of my Government, what attitude  should be adopted towards certain problems. On the  other hand, it is for me, on behalf of Brazil, to  accept the responsibilities with which my Government  has entrusted me in other fields. But it {s the same  country, the same Brazil which should reveal itself  in both assemblies and it {a inconceivable that its  representatives should act without a close concord-  ance of views.
14.2 When this debate opened at the United Nationa  and a decision was taken by a substantial majority,  for there were 53 votes in favour of accepting  President Kasavubu's credentials, 24 votes against  and 19 abstentions - the Brazilian Government - I  might even say almost all, if not indeed all, the  governments of Latin America - favoured acceptance  of these credentials. I am not therefore involving  myself in the Congo's internal affairs, much as they  distress me, I am not involving myself In the interna!   XXI PLENARY  affairs of Africa - | have too much respect for the  treedom of action of those concerned and their  priority of olaim to deal with their own problems -  but I abide by the position which my Government  adopted at the United Nationa, and I think that many  {f not all Latin American delegations will be similarly  situated, when I ask you to accept the credentials  presented to you and to approve the report of the  Credentials Committee which ia devoid of complicity  or ill-will of any sort whatever.  The PRESIDENT:  I call upon Mr. Godber, of the delegation of the  United Kingdom .
16.1 Mr, GODBER (United Kingdom):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, this is the first  occasion on which I have had the honour of addressing  the plenary session and ! am sorry in a way that it  should be an occasion where we show such a clear  lack of unanimity on the subject before us.
16.2 [ have listened with great care to the points of  view put forward by the distinguished delegates who  have spoken before me. Iam most anxious that we  should not be drawn into political controversy in  this matter, or indeed in any matter affecting Unesco.
1 think there {a a grave responsibility on all of us to  avoid political excursions affecting the matters that  come before us. Conditions in the Congo are anxious  and grave, and I think all of us, whatever our views  on it, wish to express our sympathy with the people  in that troubled land. I belleve, however, that in  this matter which has come before us there 18 only  one logical course for us to pursue, I do not think  politics should enter into the matters which we dis-  cuss at all. I belleve the only thing we can do here  is to accept the advice of the Credentials Committee  on the basis that the representatives of the Congo  (Capital: Leopoldville) have been accepted by the  United Nations in New York. As one distinguished  delegate said earlier, we are a product of the United  Nations. Article 2 of the Constitution of Unesco  states quite clearly that membership of the United  Nations should carry with it the right to membership  of Unesco, That, 1 think, {8 where we stand,
16.3 It may be argued, indeed it has been argued,  that the present representatives of the Congo who  have submitted their credentials for approval here,  are not of necessity the appropriate ones to be rep-  resented here. I would say that 1s not a matter for  us to discuss, it le a matter which has been thrashed  out most fully, deliberately, at the United Nations in  New York. They have accepted not only the Congo's  membership, they have accepted these representa-  tives of the Congo as being right and appropriate  representatives of that country. I belleve that if we  really are to leave politics out of this matter this is  the only sound, logical and common sense way in  which to view it. I believe most sincerely that this  must be the correct way in which to approach this  matter, .
16.4 We have heard extravagant phrases from the  distinguished delegate of the Soviet Republic In which  he made strong accusations on a wide range of sub-  jects against those whom he called the " colonizers",
1 do not think those accusations merit the considera-  tion of a proper reply; I think they can be taken as  MEETINOS
336  coming from whence they came, The record of those  of us who have been concerned with the question of  colonies is not one of which we should be ashamed,  but I do not intend to enter that field of controversy.  Such remarks as those merely confuse the issue and  I regret very much that they have been made. |
16.5 It is my feeling, Mr. President, that we here  in Unesco do have a duty, a very great duty, to see  that what we are seeking to do should help these  countries of the Congo, just as we want to help other  countries who have got further to go on the roads  with which we are concerned - the roads of education,  of science, of culture - than perhaps some of the  countries which we have the privilege to represent.  We who represent those older civilizations and who  have had greater opportunities have equally very  much greater responsibilities on our shoulders in  this sphere,
16.6 If our education and our culture means any-  thing, it must mean viewing with tolerance, consider-  ation and sympathy, the difficulties of peoples like  this. And I believe that if we really view this matter  with toleration, sympathy and understanding, we  should be anxlous, indeed determined, to try to help  these countries in any way we can. Therefore what  is the point of refusing membership at this stage? If  we accept this country, with its difficulties, for  membership, is it not possible that we in Unesco can  do something to help? If we refuse, what do we lose?  They lose, but we loge also. I say to you, Mr.  President, with the greatest sincerity, I believe we  have a duty to try and help. We do not help, if we  turn down this application, and I put it to the  distinguished delegates that this is really the issue  before us. - Do not let us become involved in wrangles  about the merits or demerits of different factions in  this troubled country, but let us act simply in a  humanitarian way, and show that we in Unesco can  rise above political problems on this occasion, as Î  hope indeed we can on many others. I therefore  support the proposal that the recommendation of the  Credentials Committee should be accepted.
17. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the Head of the delegation of Guinea,  Mr. Sanguiana.
18.1 Mr. MOUSSA SANGUIANA (Guinea)  (Translation from the French):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, following on  the United Nations decision to accept Mr. Kasavubu's  delegation, Unesco is now in turn required to decide  on this question which is of great importance if we  sincerely desire to see the promotion of the African  States to international standing constructively  reinforced.
18.2 We are faced with a probler ‘of conscience:  either to align our position unquestioningly with that  of the United Nations in a spirit of political opportu-  nism which I would describe as blameworthy or,  from a concern for truth and justice, to accept the  institutions which the Congolese people freely adopted  once they achieved independence. This is an opportu-  nity for our delegation to prove that, far from making  deals, it always chooses the right path, the path which  leads to the solidarity of peoples in the development  of education and the progress of science and culture.   PLENARY
18.3 The disturbances in the Congo are creating  great uneasiness in the world, outraging consciences  and inclining new States to adopt an attitude of -  suspioion towards the United Nations on account of  its partisan intervention. The delegation of Guinea  would like here to reaffirm {ts Government's  position on this particular problem: before the  independence of the Congolese people came about,  national institutions had been set up in conformity  with the provisions of the basic Charter of the  Congolese Republic. The drawing up of this Charter  and the definition of the part to be played by the  different institutions had been the subject of joint  deliberations in which representatives of all the  Congolese parties and of the Belglan Government  took part. This constitutional Charter was accepted  by all the Congolese parties and clearly defined the  powers shared by the young State's different  institutions. -
18,4 À National Assembly and a Senate were  elected by a democratic vote based on universal  suffrage. In accordance with the same democratic  procedure, the Congolese Parliament, comprising  the Chamber and the Senate, was to appoint the  Congolese Head of State and invest the Head of the  Congolese Government. In the same Charter,  resolution no, 4 concerning the competence of the  first government of the Congo stated that this would  replace the Belgian Government as of 30 June 1960  and, as a result, would exercise all the powers  hitherto possessed by the Belgian Government. The  main fields in which these powérs were exercised  included foreign relations, the national arity and  gendarmerie, national finance, customs, higher  education, ocean, river and air transport, State  security, direction of the economy, etc.
18.5 A provincial council and government were set  up within each of the six provinges in accardance  with'a policy of administrative decentralization.  But provincial power was to be exercised solely  within the indivisible and unitary framework of the  State, represented and led by the Central Government  of the Republic of the Congo.
13.6 People unfamiliar with the Congolese legal  system frequently ask whether the Head of State or  the Congolese Government is the valid spokesman in  dealing with foreign States and international bodies.  That is why international opinion is now divided:  some consider Mr, Kasavubu's actions as legal and  regular while others consider the measures decided  on by the Cabinet of the Congolese Government as  regular, The Preamble to the Constitution of the  Republic of the Congo makes it possible to decide  between the two opinions. It is not a problem of  Kasavubu versus Lumumba but a problem of inter-  national law and national legality and Unesco's  attitude should be in complete accord with the  authentic expression of the will of each nation or  the family of nations. -
18.7 1 quote from the Preamble to this Constitution:  "The problem of the Head of State implies a choice  of considerable political importance. À newly  constituted State must choose between various  formulas: is the Head of State to be distinct from  and not responsible to the government? Or, on the  contrary, should he be responsible and himself form  an integral part of the government? Finally, should  MEETINGS XXI  the essential responsibility of the Head of State be  exercised directly before the people or with ministers  before elected assemblies?" In line with European  institutions, the Round Table Conference unanimously  adopted - and this is still included in the Preamble to  the Constitution ~ the system of a Head of State not  responsible to the government (I stress this formula).
18,8 Before 30 June 1860, the two Congolese  Chambers were to meet in joint session to decide on  the appointment of a Head of State whose acts would  be effective only if countersigned by a Minister of the  Congolese Government, which woïld alone be respon-  sible. Once again, I emphasize: of the Congolese  Government, which would alone be responsible. This  system was to continue until the definitive Constitution  entered into force, Inthe event that ro agreement could  be reached on the appointment of the Head of tate, his  duties would be temporarily assumed by the President  of the Senate or the President of the Chamber of Repre-  sentatives or by the elder of the Presidents of either  assembly. The Preamblé likewise states: "It was  therefore the system of a non-responsible Head of State  which was finally adopted unanimously and without  debate by the Round Table". Itistherefore absolutely  clear that the Government of Mr, Lumumba, which was  elected by Parliament under regular conditions and  which retains its confidence, is alone responsible for  conducting the destiny of the Congolese people in  accordance with Congolese law.
18.9 International intervention could only be justi-  fied, therefore, if it were requested by the responsible  government - i.e. that of Mr. Patrice Lumumba.
18.10 How then can the object of this intervention  on Congolese soil and independently of the will of the  Congolese Government be defined? Is one entitled to  enter a man's house with the expressed intention of  helping him against a bandit and at the same time  reserve the right to act in that house without any  regard for the owner's wishes and the conditions  which he has laid down? It frequently happens that  the means replace the end but, in this case, we must  frankly recognize that force has supplanted right and  justice.
18.11 That is why we consider it opportune to  appeal to all the nations of the world in the hope that  their joint efforts will restore justice to international  relations for the benefit of all peoples without regard  to their material or military power.
18.12 We are well aware that divergent interests  weaken Unesco's action. We need only recall the  utter disregard with which certain nations, more  confident of their military power than of the justice  of their cause, are prepared to render international  organizations frail and ineffective.
18.13 For our part, we realize that the intér-  national organizations have an important historical  rôle to play and that they should retain the power of  crystallizing all the positive energies and all the  virtues of man to hasten the disintegration of those  negative forces which still hinder the full develop-  ment of societies. We do not regard Unesco as a  guardian power whose judgements must be feared  and whose favours must be begged for. We look on  _«it as the crucible of the universal conscience but, in  order to function as such, its conduct must invariably  show it favourable to the forces of human progress,  national independence and world peace. It must be
337   XXI PLENARY  the effective centre of international co-operation  where the destiny of all mankind will be positively  asserted. ‘
18.14 Our concern is that the cause of each people  shall triumph, no matter what that people's race,  religion or nationality. But leaving aside our desire  to see humanity achieve that high level of awareness  of its interdependent interests, we must take due  account of current harsh realities in the Congo.
18.15 Certain Member States of international -  organizations are criticized for constantly denouncing  the misdeeds of imperialism and colonialism, My  country has a proverb which says, "If a man cries  'Firel! when he sees his neighbour's hut burning,  only incendiaries would dare to complain that he was  spreading panic.” Who can expect us to be indiffer-  ent to happenings in the Congo except those who  nourish the mad hope of placing the existence of the  Congolese brother peoples under trusteeship - and  hence of taking the path which leads to segregation?
18.16 We are aware that the colonialist régime  cannot be destroyed, removed from the face of the  earth, merely by denouncing it. The process leading  to its total disappearance can be hastened by combat-  ing colonialism wherever it resists and wherever it  operates against the freedom of peoples.
18,17 There are two ways of protecting oneself  against theft. The first is to take out an insurance  and let the thieves do their work. The second is to  denounce the apirit of theft and to unmask and com-  bat the thieves, We choose the latter method  because we know that the true freedom of our peoples  will only be achieved and consolidated when all those  with the evil design of seizing that freedom are  blacklisted, denounced and put in a position where  they can do no more harm,
18.18 We will never dissociate ourselves from  what happens around us, on the contrary. We intend  to take part in all such action as may be instituted on  behalf of the freedom of peoples, all peoples, on  behalf of the independence of nations, all nations,  on behalf of international co-operation, on behalf  of world peace,
18.19 We know that, if human faults and failings  are destructive by nature, we should call on the  human virtues and qualities in order to make our  contribution to the building of a better world in which  the resources of human genius will be devoted solely  to man's happiness without discrimination of any sort.
18.20 The Congè mist no longer be used either as  a diversion or as a subject of experiment for foreign  enterprises, The Congo must be seen as a part of  humanity's existence, as a destiny for millions of  men, women and children.
18.21 Let us talk less about Lumumba, Kasavubu,  Mobutu, Ileo and the rest and devote ourselves  seriously to finding a just solution to the cause of a  people which seeks only well-being, peace and  progress. It is not reasonable to justify an unjust  reactionary policy on the grounds of a colour arbit-  rarily attributed to the political and juridical con-  cepts of à mén or a people. Each people has an  absolute right to whatever concept it wishes so long  as its actual behaviour harms neither the freedom  nor the interests of any other people. Without these  rules, brute force will triumph over moral force,  injustice over justice and savagery over civilization.  MEETINGS
18.22 Most of those who are representéd as the  main actors in the Congo drama are in fact no more  than instruments set in motion by selfish interests.
18,23 As we know,corruption, that debasing instru-  ment of imperialism, has played its destructive and  degrading part. As we also know, the most contra-  dictory pretexts have been brandished here and there  to obscure the true Congolese problem, the solution  of which calls for a decisive choice between the  freedom and sovereignty of the Congolese people on  the one hand and, on the other, the freedom of their  exploiters.
18.24 We all know what has happened since
2 September. We are all aware of the assistance  given to this group and that to increase the confusion,  and the struggle for power between the Congolese  leaders so as to justify the anti-Congolese plan  whick had been drawn up.
18.25 We do not think it necessary at this stage to  reveal all the overwhelming mass of documents we  possess on the Congo situation, We wish to build,  even in association with those who have been guilty  of errors, to the extent that their moral and political  conscience enables them to appreciate the Congo  situation and to take the path of respect for right,  legality and Congolese interests. In this way we  hope that all the concealed actors in the Congolese  drama will reconsider their position and not compel  us to discomfit them publicly.
18.26 It is no use today congratulating our peoples  on their accession to independence when, moreover,  those congratulations are accompanied by cunning  manoeuvres désigned to hinder the normal exercise  of their national sovereignty. The freedom we value  most is the freedom to use our independence, in  other words that freedom which favours instead of  jeopardizing normal conditions for the exercise of  the attributes of our national sovereignty.
18.27 We urgently appeal to the sense of justice of  all nations in the hope that they will undertake the  effective defence of Congolese legality. The men in  power in the Congo will disappear but the people of  the Republic of the Congo will remain. We must not  commit an act which would endure in history and  which future generations in the Congo and elsewhere  can forever hold against those who are today respon-  sible for international life. Unesco should not be  used as an instrument of division,
18.28 Unesco is required today to decide on the  admission of a delegation which représents no legal  governmental institution, The position in the Congo  is all the more tragic because the true leader, the  true representative of the Congo ~ the Head of the  government invested by the two Congolese Chambers -  is at present subjected to exactions by a politico-  military third power. The confusion resulting from  this de facto situation is such that our Organization  is in no position to reach an objective decision on  the present representation of the Republic of the  Congo. ‘
18,29 That is why the delegation of the Republic of  Guinea, like that of Morocco, formally requests ‘  that any examination of this question be deferred  until such time as an authority and institutions  acceptable to the mass of the Congolese people  are re-established in this brother country.   PLENARY MEETINGS  The PRESIDENT:  The delegation of Liberia wishes to raise a point  of order.
19.  Mr, MITCHELL (Liberia);  Mr. President, fellow delegates, exercising my  prerogative under Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure,  [hereby put forward a motion for closure of the  debate.
20.  The PRESIDENT;  The delegate of Poland wishes to speak.  a1,
22,1 Mr. WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) (Translation  from the Russian);  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, what we  are faced with so far as I can understand, is an  attempt not to decide the essence of the point raised  by the delegation of Morocco, under which it reserved  the right to put a motion later, a desire to cut short  the discussion at the very moment when many  speakers wish to express their govérnments' views  on this question of outstanding importance for Unesco.
22,2 It seéms to me that it is better to delay the  closure of the debate. Let the delegation of Morocco,  whose position I fully support, use its right to put  forward the motion referred to after everyone has  spoken. So far as I understood the representative  of Morocco, his motion amounts to a proposal not to  discuss the credentials of the delegation of the ao-  called government of the usurper Mobutu at the  present session, as compared with the motion put  forward by the representative of Liberia, which  amounts to silencing delegates who want to explain  their countries' position here.
22.3 Now as to the essence of the question, From  the very beginning of this session we have heard  many speeches to the effect that we should not con-  cern ourselves with politics, that we should not  outstep the limits of the immediate tasks of Unesco,  that all proposals, particularly those of deep concern  to humanity such as disarmament, peaceful coexist-  ence and the elimination of colonialism, are political  proposals and that we should therefore not concern  ourselves with them, Today the distinguished rep-  resentative of the United Kingdom reiterated this  argument. I must state that those delegates who have  been insisting here that we must hold aloof from  politics are the very ones who included in the agenda  of the General Conference of Unesco the world's  most burning political question of the day.
22.4 ‘They included it wittingly, knowing full well  that it would arouse sharp discussion among us, and  that there are diamétrically opposed viewpoints on  this issue here, Thus they contrived not only to  confront us with a sharp political discussion but also  to put the delegations of à number of States in an  embarrassing and awkward situation; and they did
50 just when our Conference is coming to a close  and when it was improper to raise such thorny politi-  cal {ssues and place representatives of à number of  States in a difficuit position.
22.5 I can only eay that all the statements made at  today's meeting to the effect that Unesco should not  engage in political discussion are hypocritical, for  while they maintain, on the one hand, that there  must be no politica, they raise, on the other,
339  political questions of a most acute nature,
22.6 The line put forward is that we are part of  the United Nations family, Of course we are part  of the United Nations family, but that does not  deprive Unesco of its independence. 1 ask you, Mr.  President and fellow delegates, taking up their .  argument, why {s it, then, that we have a Credentials  Committee? Why do we waste time there di scussing  questions of credentials? ‘ Why do we discuss them  at the General Conference, if all these questions are  decided beforehand by decisions of the United Nations?
22.7 Naturally, we should take account of United  Nations decisions, We should give them careful  conslderation but that does not mean that we are  deprived of the possibility of deciding on these lssues  independently, And it ia idle for the United Kingdom  representative to refer on this point to our Consti-  tution. It says nothing about our not having the right  to take our own decisions on questions that are most  vital to Uneaco, Mr, Carneiro has sald that we  represent here the same States as are represented  in the United Nations. This is quite true, we do  represent those same States.
22.8 But the fact that we are representatives of  Statea does not mean that we are not representatives  of men of science, culture and education, and that as  men of culture and education we cannot have our  personal opinion on a number of questions which are  extremely important for Unesco. I would even go  further and say that besides being representatives of  States, besides being representatives of science and  culture, we are also men and women as such. And  as men and women we do not accept what we have  read in today's newspapers about how the usurper  Colonel Mobutu lords it in the Congo and young men  brought into the Congo from outside are forming a  so-called government.
22.9 We have heard a great deal here about parlia-  mentary democracy. If [ may say a word about  parliamentary democracy, it would be this: anyone  who defends the mandate of the usurper Mobutu is  trampling the principles of parliamentary democracy  underfoot, ! shall not go into all the legal arguments  which were so brilliantly expounded by the delegate  of Guinea. I wish only to say that according to the  Constitution of the Congo, the President has no right  to travel outside the country without a decision by  Parliament to that effect, and that the credentials  presented by the Congolese delegation were issued  in New York, that is, outside the country. If we  base ourselves on the principles of parliamentary  democracy and not on dictatorial edicts by govern-  ments of nondescript colonels, the first thing to take  into account is a luwful declsion’ by the Congolese  Parliament, the elections to which no one has called  into question And so if reference is to be made at  all to parliamentary democracy, then do ao, gentle-  men, without applying a double standard.
22.10 Those who wish to recognize a delegation  with credentials issued by the so-called government  of Mobutu - the usurper Mobutu, to be precise - have  always argued that it 1s wrong to erect an iron  curtain between States. Permit me to ask, therefore,  who it was that expelled diplomatic representatives  from the Congo. It was Mobutu and his imported  commissioners. They were the ones who created the  fron curtain. They expelled diplomatic representatives   XXI PLENARY  because they saw no need of unnecessary observers.
22,11 The same thing happened recently to the  representative of the United Arab Republic, and the  Government of that country gave an appropriate  reply. It seems to me that if we can wait eleven  years for the acceptance of the People's Republic of  China, in which there is no government other than  the central government of that republic, why do we  have to hurry in this way when it comes to the Congo,  where the situation, as has been pointed out by  previous speakers, is very complex? One thing is  clear to any dispassionate observer in any case:  that this self-styled government, that is, the govern-  ment of the usurper Mobutu, does not represent the  Congo.
22.12 We have naturally welcomed the Republic of  the Congo to our Organization with great sympathy  and pleasure. It is now a mémber of it. At this  mome:t we are discussing, not the question of the  participation of the Republic of the Congo in the  work of Unesco, but that of the credentials of  impostors issued by the fellow impostor Mobutu and  his Commissioner Bomboko,
22,13 I therefore maintain that the debate should  continue until such time as the representative of  Morocco puta forward his motion for cloaure.  Furthermore, I fully endorse what the representa-  tive of Morocco has said, It seems to me that there
18 no reason to hurry, that haste can do only harm,  and hence we should accept the Moroccan proposal,  which I support, that there should be no discussion  at the present session of the question of the repre-  sentation of the Republic of the Congo.
23. The PRESIDENT:  I understand that we have before us a motion for  adjournment. The delegate of Liberia has invoked  Rule 75, I shall therefore ask the delegate of Liberia  if he wishes to put the motion for adjournment.
24. Mr. MITCHELL (Liberia):  Mr. President, I again {invoke Rule 75 to call for  an adjournment of the debate. I ask that a vote on  that motion be taken by roli-call,
25. The PRESIDENT:  Your motion is for adjournment until when?
26. Mr. MITCHELL (Liberia):  For adjournment without further consideration.
27, The PRESIDENT: ’  Mr. Thayer, Head of the delegation of the United  States of America, wishes to raise a point of order,
28. Mr. THAYER (United States of America):  Mr. President, I risé to a point of order, to ask  for an explanation. It does not seem clear to me  from Rule 75 whether or not this means that we are  to stop the debate and take a vote on ‘this question,  or whether it means that we are to cease all consi-  eration of this question. If the latter, for how long?  If it means the latter, I would opposé the motion  very vigorously and associate myself with the dele-  gate of Poland, because 1 feel this question must be  settled today. We need clarification, because I do  not believe the delegates here present are familiar  MEETINGS  with the rules and regulations and know exactly what  Rule 75 means. If we are to adjourn oui» debate on  matters because of what appears in the newspopers,  then I doubt véry much whether the Unesco Confer-  ence would ever assemble anywhere. 1 submit,  Mr. President, that we should have a very clear  explanation of what this rule means, so that we mow  what we are voting upon.
29, The PRESIDENT:  Will the Legal Adviser kindly explain Rule 75?
30.1 Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) (Translation  from the French):  Mr. President, I will read Rule 75:  " Adjournment of debate: During the discussion  of any question, a Member State or Associate Member  present may move adjournment of the debate on the  item under discussion, Any such motion shall have  precedence. In addition to the proposer of the  motion, one speaker may speak in favour of, and  one against, the motion,"
30.2 It has not been specified for what period an  adjournment is sought. In these circumstances, the  General Committee may recommend again that the  General Conference should resume the debate unlesa  the author of the motion for adjournment specifies  that he wishes an adjournment extending beyond the  limits of this session of the Conference.
31. The PRESIDENT:
1 call upon the delegate of Morocco.
32.1 Mr. ELMANJRA (Morocco):  I rise on & point of order, Mr. President. Iam  glad that the delegate of the United States raised the  question of Rule 75. 1 think that the delegate of  Liberia when he i although he used the term  "closure of the debate" referred to Article 75 which  concerns adjournment. If you refer to Rule 77, the  adjournment of the debate on the item under discussion  has a priority. We of the Moroccan delegation feel  somewhat responsible, because it was we who first  raised this question. We did not wish to putittoa  vote immediately because we felt that certain dele-  gations, indeed, a good many, should have a chance  to speak in favour or against. We think now that  sufficient views have been expressed for and against,  and that it is not up to us to move formally the  adjournment of the debate because we consider that  this has been done,
32.2 We would like to add the following ‘clarification.  When we asked for adjournment of thia debate, we  sald that we wanted that at least the work of the  special group on Africa be discussed and considered  in the Programme Commission before discussing  this question again. We do not intend to adjourn the  debate until two years from now at the next Confer-  ence. In our view it is up to the General Committee  to decide when it shall be opportune to raise this  question again,
32.3 And here 1 would like the delegations to take  into consideration one very important point. There  are about 100 delegations here. Many of those dele-  gations come from countries which do not have the  same facilities as many of the other delegations to  send cables or maintain permanent contact by
340   PLENARY  telephone with thelr governments. And most of us,  as was 80 ably said by Mr, Carneiro, most of us  here are not politicièns The decisions are made  for us in the United Nations or by our governments.  Many of the delegations I have spoken to here have  not had time, in view of the latest developments, to  recelve very precise instructions from their govern-  ments, Again | say, things move fast in Africa,  perhaps if we postpone this debate, even for a week,  we may see à change. I would not be surprised if  tomorrow we read in the headlines that Mr, Lumumba  and Mr. Kasavubu and Mr. Mobutu have met, have  agreed, have shaken hands! How much happier we  would then be to accept here the same delegates who  have come, and there would no longer be the feeling  of antagonism within the working groups and within  the working committees. This is the reason why we  have made the suggestion. -
32,4 Now to come back to procedure, since we have  already a formal motion before us for the adjourn-  ment of the debate and since, according to Rule 75,  there can only be one speaker for and one against,  I consider, Mr, President (and here I would like the  advice of our Legal Adviser) that since it was form-  ally moved by the delegate of Liberia that we adjourn  the debate, and the intervention of the delegate of the  United States, unless he was out of order, was to  speak against the motion, and since I consider my  intervention as being in favour of the motion, 1  consider that if we are respect our Rules of Proce-  dure, there can be no further discussion and that we  must put to a vote the adjournment of the debate,  with the understanding that the General Committee  might at some other time, when it considers it appro-  priate, call for the discussion of this question to be  resumed. ;
32.5 One further argument in favour of the motion  has been expressed by the delegate of the United  Kingdom, who urged that we should do something for  the Congo. ! am happy to say on behalf of the  Moroccan Government that, although we did not  recognize the Kasavubu delegation at the General  Assembly of the United Nations, we have not with  drawn our experts from the Congo, our army is still  there, our experts in telecommunications are still  there, and we are thinking of sending experts in the  field of education, because we are intelligent enough  to make a distinction between the work which should  be done there and these superficial political questions  which we here should leave aside. So I think that the  Congo is being helped, and will continue to be helped  by Unesco, Independently of our vote. Mr. President,  again I beg you to put the motion for adjournment to  the vote, considering that there can be no more  discussion.
33. The PRESIDENT:  May I ask the Chairman of the Credentials  Committee to make a few explanatory remarks before  we proceed further?
34, Mr. MATSUI (Japan), -Chairman of the  Credentials Committee, (Traislation from the French):  Mr. President, I would like to ask you a question:  in the event that the motion for adjournment is  adopted will Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure apply?  This reads: " Provisional admission to a session.  MEETINGS XX1  Any representative to whose admission à Member  State or Associate Member has made objection shall  be seated provisionally with the same rights as other  representatives, until the Credentials Committee  has reported and the General Conference has given  its decision.” I think this rule applies and I would  appreciate clarification of the point,
35.1 The PRESIDENT:  My opinion 1e that what the Chairman of the  Credentials Committee has said is quite correct.
35.2 I will now put the motion for adjournment of  the debate to the vote by roll-call,  (The vote was taken by roll-call,  In favour: Austria, Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Congo (Capital: Brazzaville),  Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Ethiopla, Ghana, Hungary,  India, Liberia, Madagascar, Mexico, Morocco,  Nepal, Poland, Rumania, Senegal, Somalia, Switzer-  land, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics, Upper Volta, Yugoslavia,  Against: Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil,  Canada, Chile, China, Costa Rica, Denmark, Ecuador,  Federal Republic of Germany, France, Greece,  Guinea, Iran, Italy, Japan, Korea, Luxembourg,  Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway,
36.  ‘Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Spain, Sweden, Thailand,  Turkey, United Kingdom, United States of America,  Uruguay, Venezuela.  Abstentions: Afghanistan, Camsroun, Central  African Republic, Ceylon, Dominican Republic,  Finland, israel, Ivory Coast, Lebanon, Nigeria,  Sudan, Tunisia, Viet-Nam.  Absent: Albania, Bolivia, Cambodia, Colombia,  Dahomey, El Salvador, Gabon, Guatemala, Haiti,  Honduras, Indonesia, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Laos,  Libya, Federation of Malaya, Mali, Monaco, Niger,  Panama, Paraguay, Saudi Arabia, Togo.)
37.1 'fhe PRESIDENT:  The result of the voting is as follows: for the  adjournment, 26; against, 34; abstentions 12;  absent, 24. The motion for adjournment of the  debate is not carried.
37.2 The delegate of Morocco has asked to speak  on a point of order.
38.1 Mr, ELMANJRA (Morocco): .  Mr. President, on the basis of Rule 74 [ would  like to ank for the adjournment not of the debate, but  of the meeting. That rule reads: " Such motions  shall not be debated, but shall be immediately put to  the vote." It appears from the vote we have just  taken that there is a desire to continue the debate.  We did not want such a debate, but if the majority  wish to continue, in view of the great number of  delegations absent, we ask them to let us come  prepared. It is already 5.45 p.m., it is Saturday  afternoon, and I think that there are other meetings  which should take place. | ;
38.2 1 therefore move that we adjourn the meeting,  and according to Rule 74 the motion for adjournment  of the meeting shall be immediately put to the vote. |
39.1 The PRESIDENT:  We shall now vote on the motion for adjournment   XXI  of the meeting. Rule 74 reads as follows; "During  the discussion of any matter, a Member State or  Associate Member may move the suspension or the  adjournment of the meeting. Such motions shall not  be debated, but shall be immediately put to the vote."  We shall therefore put this motion to the vote.
38,2 We shall now take the vote by roll-cail on the  motion for the adjournment of the meeting.
40. (The vote was taken by roll-call.  In favour: ‘Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet  Socialist Republic, Central African Republic, Congo  (Capital; Brazzaville), Cuba, Czechoslovakia,  Ethiopia, Finland, Ghana, Guinea, Hungary, India,  Lebanon, Liberia, Madagascar, Mexico, Morocco,  Nepal, Poland, Rumania, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,  Somalia, Sweden, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Upper Voltu,  Yugoslavia.  Against; Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil,  Canada, Chile; China, Costa Rica, Denmark, Ecuador,  Federal Republic of Germany, France, Greece, Iran,  Italy, Japan, zuxembourg, New Zealand, Nicaragua,  Norway, Peru, Philippines, Spain, Switzerland,  Thailand, Turkey, United Kingdom, United States of  America, Uruguay, Venezuela,  Abstalned: Afghanistan, Austria, Cameroun,  Ceylon, Dominican Republic, Israel, Nigeria,  Pakistan, Sudan, Tunisia, Viet-Nam, i  Absent: Albania, Bolivia, Cambodia, Colombia,  Dahomey, El Salvador, Gabon, Guatemala, Haiti,  Honduras, Indonesia, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jordan,  Korea, Kuwait, Laos, Libya, Federation of Malaya  Mali, Monaco, Niger, Panama, Paraguay, Togo.)
41,1 Thé PRESIDENT:  The result of the vote is as follows: In favour of  the adjournment of the meeting 30; against, 31;  abstentions, 11; absent 25, The motion 1s not  carried. The discussion will therefore continue. I  would like to ask the next speakers to be as brief as  possible, because we would like to come to the vote  on the report. :
41.2 The delegate of Guinea wishea to speak on a  point of order.  Mr. KALI (Guinea) (Translation from the French):  Mr. President, in accordance with Rule 74, cited  earlier by our colleague of the Moroccan delegation,  I formally ask that the meeting be suspended.
42.  The PRESIDENT:  The delegation of the United States asks to speak  on a point of order. I understand he wishes a  clarification which I will ask the Legal Adviser  to give.
44.1 Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) (Translation from  the French): ;  Mr. President, I will rexd Rule 74: " Suspension  or adjournment of the meeting. During the discussion  of any inatter, a Member State or Associate Member  may move the suspension or the adjournment of the  meeting. Such motions shall not be debated but shall  be immediately put to the vote." -
44.2 I think there is some confusion in the minds -  of certain delegates ss to whethe: ons identical motion
342  PLENARY MEETINGS  is involved, There may be a suspension or there  may be an adjournment. They are two different  things. As I understand it, a motion for the suspen-  sion of the meeting has just been proposed whereas  previously the motion was for adjournment of the  meeting. Suspension means that the meeting is  resumed during the same day.
15.1 The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of the United States of America is  quite satisfied with the explanation given by the  Legal Adviser and does not wish to speak further,
45,2 Now we shall proceed to vote on the motion  for suspension of the meeting, Certain delegations  want te vote by roll-call so I shall proceed to have  the vote taken by roll-call.
46. (The vote was taken by roll-call,  In favour: Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Burma, Byelo-  russian Soviet Soclalist Republic, Central African  Republic, Congo (Capital; Brazzaville), Cuba,  Czechoslovakia, Finland, Ghana, Guinea, Hungary,  India, Lebanon, Liberia, Madagascar, Mexico,  Morocco, Nepal, Poland, Rumania, Saudi Arabia,  Senegal, Somalia, Sudan, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United  Arab Republic, Upper Volta, Yugoslavia.  Against: Argentina, Australla, Austria, Belgium,  Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa  Rica, Denmark, Ecuador, El Salvador, Federal  Republic of Germany, France, Greece, Iran, Italy,  Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand,  Nicaragua, Norway, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines,  Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom, United States of  America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet-Nam.  Abstained: Cameroun, Ceylon, Israel, Ivory  Coast, Nigeria, Switzerland, Tunisia,  Absent: Albania, Bolivia, Cambodia, Dahomey,  Dominican Republic, Ethiopia, Gabon, Guatemala,  Halti, Honduras, Indonesia, Iraq, Jordan, Korea,  Kuwait, Laos, Libya, Federation of Malaya, Mali,  Monacu, Niger, Panama, Paraguay, Thailand, Togo.)
47.1 The PRESIDENT:  The result of the vote is as follows: in favour 31;  against 34; abstentions 7; absent 25.
47.2 The motion is therefore not carried. We will  continue the discussion.
47.3 H.E. Dr. Beeby of New Zealand wishes to  speak on a point of order.  Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand):  Mr. President, under Rule 76 I move the cloaure  of this debate. 1 think we have done enough harm to  Unesco's reputation for one afternoon.
49.1 The PRESIDENT:  According to Rule T6 only two speakers may now  speak against the motion.
49,2 The delegate of Poland wishes to speak.
50.1 Mr. WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) (Translation  from the Russian):  Mr. President, I wish to oppose the New Zealand  delegation's motion for the closure of the debate. 1  oppose it because I consider that since motioiis for  the adjournment of thé meeting have been rejected   PLENARY  (although by insignificant majoritiga) and that a  number of delegations have therefore been given no  opportunity to get in touch with their governments,  as they had requested, it seems completely unfair  not to allow the floor to the various delegations which  had asked to speak. It seems to me that in these  circumstances we should continue our discussion,
50.2 If the majority, a tiny majority of one or two  votes, considers that delegations are not to be  allowed to think over this question and get in touch  with their governments, and demands that the issue  be decided forthwith, then we must at least be con-  sistent and not gag even a single delegation which  wishes to express {ts views on this question. I  therefore oppose the motion of the delegation of  New Zealand.  The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the delegate of Guinea,
52.1 Mr. KALI(Guinea)(Translation from the French):  Mr. President, gentlemen, since we are here  discussing a question which esaentially concerns the  African nations, we feel it necessary that the voice  of Guinea should be heard.
52.2 We have noted the results of the successive  votes which have been taken following the debate on  the admiss{n of an African State, the Republic of  the Congo (Capital: Leopoldville).
52,3 The African countries came to the General  Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scienti-  fic and Cultural Organization because they believed  they had needs, concrete problems concerning Africa,  to submit to this large and distinguished forum,
52.4 None of them, as has been emphasized, has  tried to associate the problem with Tropical Africa's  divisions or political situation. It is with regret,  however, that we note that our Organization, although  denying that it is engaged in politics, is so engaged  at the present time; we note this and we draw from  it the conclusions for the countries of West Africa  and, in particular, for the republic which I repre-  sent, the Republic of Guinea.
52.5 We are all the more saddened to note this  decision becauss we have been deeply moved on  hearing delegates speak of this international assembly  as being that of all Tropical Africa. We observe that  words here are belied by deeda. That is alll  wished to say.  The PRESIDENT;  A vote on the motion for closure of the debate  will now be taken by roll-call.
54. (The vote was taken by rol)-call.  In favour: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium,  Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Costa Rica, Denmark,  Ecuador, Fl Salvador, Federal Republic of Germany,  France, Ghana, Greece, Iran, Italy, Japan, .  Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand,  Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Paraguay,  Peru, Philippines, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland,  Thailand, Turkey, United Kingdom, United States  of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet-Nam,  Aguinst: Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Burma,  Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Congo  (Capital: Brazzaville), Cuba, Czechoslovakia,  MEETINGS XX1  Guinea, Hungary, India, Lebanon, Liberia,  Madagascar, Morocco, ‘Nepal, Poland, Rumania,  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab  Republic, Upper Volta, Yugoslavia,  Abstained: Cameroun, Central African Republic,  Ceylon, Finland, Ivory Coast, Tunisia.  Absent: Albania, Bolivia, Cambodia, Colombia,  Dahomey, Dominican Republic, Ethiopia, Gabon,  Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Indonesia, Iraq,  Israel, Jordan, Korea, Kuwait, Laos, Libya,  Federation of Malaya, Mali, Monaco, Niger,  Panama, Saudi Arabia, Togo. )
856.1 The PRESIDENT:  The result of the voting on the motion for the  closure of the debate is as follows: in favour, 40;  against, 25; abstentions, 6; absent, 26. Therefore  the motion for closure is carried.
55.2 1 want to make it clear that the debate is closed  The position now is that we return to paragraphs 6
7, 8 and 9 of the report which is before the General  Conference - the recommendation of the Credentials  Committee that the credentials presented by the  delegation of the Republic of thy Congo (Capital:  Leopoldville) be accepted.
55.3 We shall now proceed to vote by roll-call on  that recommendation.
56. (The vote was taken by roll-call.  In favour: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium,  Brazil, Camerqun. Chile, China, Congo (Capital:  Brazzaville), Costa Rica, Denmark, Ecuador, El  Salvador, Federal Republic of Germany, France,  Greece, Iran, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Nepal,  Netherlands, New Zealand, Pakistan, Peru,  Philippinea, Senegal, Spain, Sweden, Thailand,  Turkey, United Kingdom, United States of America,  Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet-Nam.  Against: Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Byelorussian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Cuba, Czechoslovekia,  Ghana, Guinea, Hungary, India, Lebanon, Morocco,  Poland, Rumania, Somalia, Ukrainian Soviet Sociai-  ist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,  United Arab Republic, Upper Volta, Yugoslavia.  Abstained: Canada, Ceylon, Finland, Madagascar,  Sudan, Sweden, Tunisia,  Absent; Albania, Bolivia, Burma, Cambodia,  Central African Republic, Dahomey, Dominican  Republic, Ethiopia, Gabon, Guatemala, Haiti,  Honduras, Indonesia, Iraq, Israel, Ivory Coast,  Jordan, Korea, Kuwait, Laos, Liberia, Libya,  Federation of Malaya, Mali, Mexico, Monaco, Niger,  Nigeria, Panama, Saudi Arabia, Togo.)
57.1 The PRESIDENT:  The result of the vote is as follows: In favour of  accepting the credentials of the Republic of the Congo  (Capital: Leopoldville), 38; against, 19; abstentions,
7; abgent, 33, The credentials are therefore accepted.
57.2 1 now put to the vote the second report of the  Credentials Committee as a whole.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands)
57.3 The report of the Credentials Committee as a  - whole is adopted, by 36 votes in favour, 11 against  and 9 abstentions. The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 7,00 p.m,