19 November 1960, at 3.40 p.m.  President: Mr, K.L. SHRIMALI (India)  CONTENTS  Address by the Minister of Education of Ghana . . . . . 131  Adoption of Part II of the first report of the Administrative  Commission (continued)  Request for the inclusion of a new item in the agenda  ADDRESS BY THE MINISTER OF EOUCATION OF GHANA
1. The PRESIDENT:  The meeting will come to order, please, The Hon,  Mr. Duwuona-Hammond, Minister of Education of  Ghana, has to leave Paris soon and therefore desires  that he may be given the opportunity to address the  Conference. I call upon Mr, Duwuona-Hammond.
2,1 Mr, DUWUONA-HAMMOND (Ghana):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, I am grateful  for the opportunity given me to speak this afternoon.  Allow me first to congratulate you, Mr, President,  on your election to this very important post. To the  Conference I extend the sincere thanks of the Govern-  ment and people of Ghana for conferring upon the  continent of Africa such an honour this year, by  electing H,E. Mr, Akale- Work Abte- Wold of  Ethiopia as President of the Conference and by  electing two Vice- Pregidents from Ghana and Sudan.
2.2 Two years ago the Hon, C.T. Nylander, the  then Minister of Education, had the honour of leading  the Ghana delegation to the tenth session of the  General Conferèëlice of Unesco, when Ghana became  a full member of the Organization. Since that time  great changes have taken place in Ghana, the most  significant of which have been the adoption by Ghana  of a republican constitution and the election of the  Hon. Dr. Kwame Nkrumah as the first President.  The Osagyefo Dr. Kwame Nkrumah has asked me to  convey to this Conference his personal good wishes  for the success of our deliberations and his hope that  thanks to the services and achievements of this  Organization, tangible progress will be made towards  the attainment of understanding among the nations of  the world through the agencies of education, sclence  and culture.
2.3 I would like also to express my personal satis-  faction on being here as the leader of the Ghana  delegation and to pledge my support and that of my  Government for the principles which Unesco upholds.
2.4  and peaceful progress everywhere. Never before in  our history has a more strenuous and systematic  endeavour been made by the Government and the  In Ghana today there are visible signs of steady’
141  people to stimulate the development of the country's  natural resources and manpower, to increase its  wealth, and to equip it with the requisite material  apparatus of a modern State. In Lewis Carroll's  "Alice Through the Looking Glass" the Red Queen  tells Alice: "Here, you see, it takes all the running  you can do to keep in the same place. If you want  to get somewhere else, you must run at least twice  as fast as that". In Ghana, in our effort to get  somewhere, we are attempting to run thrice as fast  as we can in order to open the way for our whole  people to a better and fuller life through abolishing  ignorance, poverty and disease and promoting  measures which make for cultural advancement. In  our endeavours to achieve this purpose we need all  the assistance that Unesco can offer us.
2.5 I am happy to say that our status as a full  member of Unesco has afforded us fuller participa-  tion in the work of this Organization and, in this  regard, I would like to mention the positive advantages  which the presence of H.E, Mr, Wilfred Benson,  Resident Representative of the United Nations  Technical Assistance Board, has given us. In the  field of technical assistance we have maintained our  reciprocal arrangements with Unesco and, while  accepting the help of experts, we have also provided  facilities for holders of Unesco fellowships to pursue  interests in those fields which are open to them in  Ghana, It is our hope that the operations of the  Technical Assistance programme will be intensified  in Ghana, where, I can assure you, the possibilitiea  for constructive achievements are vexy considerable,  In this regard, I refer to an appeal I made last’  Thursday at the meeting of the Programme Com-  mission for the establichment of a "Research Centre  in Ghana to deal with contemporary problems in the  field ot education, science and culture in Tropical  Africa, and thus to provide a forum for mutual  Knowledge and exchange of information on such acti-  vities, and also provide statistical data for sound  educational planning". As I said then, my Govern.  ment {s prepared "to provide the land, buildings  and the finance necessary for the upkeep of the  Centre. Unesco's part in the project will be the pro-  vision of experts to plan and initiate the project,   IX PLENARY  to train personnel and provide funds for special-  ized equipment".
2.6 As the Minister of Education and the Chairman  of the National Commission for Unesco in Ghana, it  gives me very great pleasure to recount here briefly  some of the improvements which have taken place in  the educational, scientific and cultural fields in  Ghana since the last Conference, The Government  has more fully co-ordinated the work of the various  educational agencies and has sought to promote educa-  tion on a national basis. An organizer of day  nursery schools has been appointed to regulate and  co ordinate the work of these schools and make avail-  able the full benefits of these institutions to the  children who attend them,
2.7 Much progress has been made in the provision  of primary and middle school facilities. I must here  state that it is the intention of my Government to  introduce universal compulsory primary and middle  school education as soon as practicable, We consider  the provision of primary education for every child in  the community as a responsibility of the highest im-  portance; the rudiments of literacy as the gateway  to the enjoyment of a fuller life may be gained through  primary education and this, in turn, will help to en-  rich the rural life which is the lot of a large number  of my countrymen, We have recently conducted a  population census under the able guidance of Professor  Gill, a Unesco expert, Full advantage will be taken  of the detailed results of this census in initiating and  implementing the plans for universal compulsory  primary and middle school education. Plans have  also been made to revise the primary and middle  school course in order to provide adequate facilities  for practical training lor all pupils who do not take  secondary grammar school courses, The new courses  will have a strong blas towards practical science,  agriculture, mathematics and manual training, A  Textbooks and Publications Committee has been set  up to assist in the production of suitable textbooks  with a Ghanian and African background, It is intended  that the subjects of health and nutrition shall receive  due attention in the appropriate textbooks.
2.8 The provision of universal compulsory primary  and middle schooling demands a commensurate in-  crease in the number of trained teachers and of  teacher-training facilities. We are fully aware of the  situation and I am glad to say that the sum of  £G 2,746,000 has been set aside for the provision of  teacher-training facilities during the period 1961-
1864, The proposals include the establishment of a  Rural Science Training Centre for the training of  teachers of agriculture for the middle schools. This  step is calculated to meet the demand for the intro-  duction of modern methods of scientific farming into  our middle school curriculum. Co-ordination of the  work of teacher-training colleges and the assessment  of the results achieved by these institutions have been  made possible through the establishment of a National  Teacher-Training Council, The research work in  the Institute of Education of our University College  has led to the establishment of valid selection pro-  cedures for several careers and also to the develop-  ment of effective methods of teaching English as a  foreign language.
2,9 The main objective of my Government's  Second Development Plan in relation to education is  MEETINGS  the expansion of secondary'school facilities, so that  by 1964 an annual intake of 6,000 into the first form  and of 1,000 into the sixth form will be achieved.  We consider secondary education per se as a level  and type of education which has its own purpose,  Its usefulness lies not only in raising the culture of  a nation but it is also a factor in economic, social  dnd political development. Iam pleased to be able  to report that considsrable progress has already  been made in the expansion programme for second-  ary schools; the number of secondary schools in the  public system has increased from 39 in 1958 to 39  in 1960, This outstanding increase demonstrates  very clearly the importance the Government  attaches to the development of education, In the  development of secondary education in particular,  the Government's efforts are supplemented greatly  by the Ghana Educational Trust which was founded  by Dr, Kwame Nkrumah as far back as 1948, Aa  regards the curriculum of our secondary schools a  further useful development has been the provision of  a school certificate examination more closely related  to local needs, This new examination will be intro-  duced in June 1961.
2.10 Great progress has been made in the field of  technical education, The Unesco Regional Confer-  ence for Administrators of Vocational and Technical  Education in Tropical Africa, held in Accra in  March and April this year, amply repaid the time,  energy and funds expended on it, There has been  very considerable expansion of our College of  Technology which is producing gratifying results in  engineering. We have embarked on the training of  our own technical teachers at a Technical Teacher-  Training Department recently established at Kumasi  with experts provided under the United Kingdom  Technical Assistance Programme. It is our wish  to develop this institution into a regional college and  we intend to seek assistance from the United Nations  Special Fund for this purpose, Apprenticeship, craft  and technician courses have been increased and  streamlined in the interests of industry and general  development. .
2.11 My Government is algo aware of the need to  provide adequately for the many young people who  are handicapped - the deaf, the dumb and the blind,  Funds have been provided for extending our schools  for the blind and for starting a school for the deaf  and dumb. It {8 realized, however, that much more  remains to be done in these fields und a committee  has been appointed to estimate the size of the prob-  lem and to suggest to the Government ways of deal-  ing with it on a national scale, .
2.12 Our University College today has over 600  students nand the programme to provide for 1,000  students in all 18 nearing completion. A Department  for African Studies has been established which we  hope will, in due course, become the rallying point  for all who wish to understand and appreciate the  rôle of Africa in the modern world, I am glad to  state that a Women's Hall has been provided in the  University College and is meeting a long-felt need.  The Institute of Extra-Mural Studies continues to  flourish and together with the People's Educational  Association 1s doing good work in the field of adult  education, It is hoped that very soon our University  College, which operates under terms of special
132   PLENARY  relationship with the University of London will become  autonomous and, together with the Kumasi College of  Technology, will form the University of Ghana, À  special commission has been appointed to examine  the draft constitution and make recommendations for  the setting up of the University of Ghana.
2.13 It is my Government's strong resolve to ex-  pand education at all levels, quantitatively and quali-  tatively, and as speedily as possible, In this  endeavour we need all the help we can get, Here I  may endorse the view that has been expressed else-  where that an investment in education is also an  economic investment. We will be happy therefore to  see the extension of the scope of the United Nations  Special Fund to cover educational development.
2.14 An Institute of Public Administration has re-  cently been established to train prospective administra-  tive officers for the civil service. Hitherto, a good  number of candidates for senior posts in the civil  service have come to these posts without previous  administrative training, and it is our determination  to make good this defect, Since the last Conference  we have set up two institutions for the promotion of  research and learning. The Ghana Academy of  Learning has been established and the Ghana Research  Council has been set up to co-ordinate research work  in the fields of agriculture, medicine and industry.
2.15 Our Community Development Programme  continues to make satisfactory progress in all the  four main fields of adult literacy, self-help construc-  tion projects, home economics, and extension services  in rural areas,
2.16 Since the last Conference 21,300 Ghana literacy  certificates have been awarded to new literates in the  Ghana languages and 4, 700 in English; and 18, 800  women have completed courses in home economics,  Over 1, 200 self-help construction projects have been  completed and just over 1, 140 are now in progress,  A sum of £G 2 million has been set aside for the next  five years to support self-help construction projects  throughout the country. Extension campaigns have  been carried out on behalf of other government depart-  ments, principally in the fields of agriculture and  health, with very satisfactory results. Our progress  in community development work has attracted the  attention of the world and a considerable number of  foreign visitors have come to Ghana for the specific  purpose of studying our methods. At present there  - are five fellows from other African countries study-  ing community development with us under the CCTA/  FAMA Technical Assistance Scheme. 1t was also our  very great privilege last year to sponsor a CCTA  seminar which was attended by representatives from  African and other countries.
2.17 The Bureau of Ghana Languages continues to  fulfil its purpose of increasing and sustaining the  level of literacy throughout Ghana so as to enable  more people to acquire the habit of reading for a  variety of useful purposes. Production of follow-up  literature for new literates and extension campaigns  are continuing and plans are being made for extending  and improving the work of the Bureau to meet the  growing needs of the country. ;
2.18 The Ghana Library Board continues to expand ’  and improve its services owing to the increasing  number of professionally qualified Ghanaians on its  staff. Considerable attention has been paid to
133  MEETINGS IX  the needs of children and of rural communities in  the expansion which has taken place,
2,19 The Ministry of Education has supplied sets  of story books to all the primary schools and to most  of the middle schools, In order to ensure a regular  supply of books, a scheme for a country-wide mobile  school library service has been drawn up which is to  be put into effect next year. Other plans for the  next five years include an extension to the Central  Library in Accra, the construction of five new  branch libraries, the provision of microfilm equip-  ment, librarian scholarships, the establishment of  a research library on current African affairs, and  the opening of a School of Librarianship at Accra in  September 1961, Our National Museum and the  Ashanti Cultural Centre continue to expand and to  attract visitors from all over the couniry and abroad.
2.20 In response to an appeal from Unesco, Ghana  is also financing an expenditure of £G 7,000 for res-  cue excavations and research in that part of the Nile  Valley soon to be flooded by the waters of the Aswan  Dam, It is hoped that the findings will prove of im-  mense value to the cultural history of Ghana, as we  believe that we have close cultural and religious  ties with the ancient kingdom of the Nile,
2.21 The Ghana Arts Council has been set up for  the promotion, development and appreciation of all  forms of art, and for the preservation and encourage-  ment of the traditional arts and culture of Ghana.  The Arts Council of Ghana will welcome offers of  assistance from other Member States of Unesco,  particularly by way of sponsoring visits to Ghana by  national orchestras, dramatic and dance companies,  artists and craftamen, Since the last General  Conference there has heen a striking increase in the  radio audience from 600, 000 to 1,000,000, This  means that more than 14% of the population are able  to listen to the radio, Radio Ghana now broadcasts  for over 100 hours a week in English, French and  the six mainGhanaianlanguages and about 20% of this  time is devoted to adult educational programmes, Our  schools broadcast now caters for primary, middle and  secondary schools and teacher-training colleges. As part  of our contributiontothe Unesco Major Project onthe  Mutual Appreciation of Easternand Western Cultural  Values, we continue to exchange recordings of traditional  and popular music with other broadcasting organizations  of the world, RadioGhanahas sent 249 recorded materi-  alsto 28 other broadcasting organizations of the world  and has received 566 similar materials from 26 broad-  casting organizations since January 1960. Plansarebe-  ing made for the establishment of a Television Service,
2,22 Mr, President, fellow delegates, the progress
1 have outlined so far is but a brief summary of the  changes which are taking place in educational, social  and cultural spheres in my country. By the nature  of things, the significance of these changes cannot  be fully ccnveyed in such an account as I have given.  But this I can say, seldom has any society under.  gone within so short a time a greater change in  structure as well as in spirit. The triumph of  science and of democracy has corne about almost at  the same time, To meet the demands of both  science and democracy a community must be educated.  We have set out to bring our nation to the level of  education which will enable us to take advantage of  the full benefits of science and democracy.   IX
2,23 Constant revision of means and methods is  vital if we are to attain our objectives, The forum  that Unesco supplies for this purpose is one that we  greatly appreciate and are determined to use to the  best advantage, What we and other Member States  achieve by means of this healthy co-operation will  become the common heritage of civilization, and this  I consider is the greatest and noblest contribution to  the unity of the world and to the achievement of the  purposes for which Unesco stands. The Government  and people of Ghana have the deepest respect for  Unesco and, to cite the words of our President before  the United Nations General Assembly, we ''look upon  the United Nations as the only organization that holds  out any hope for the future of mankind", In this con-  text, United Nations should not mean only the parent  organization, but all its Specialized Agencies.
2.24 The Government and people of Ghana have  noted with deep concern the unfortunate position in  which the Republic of China has been placed by  circumstances beyond their control in the matter of  arrears in payment of their contributions to this  Organization, On the other hand, the Government and  people of Ghana note with deep regret that the People's  Republic of China, ag a member of the community of  nations, should be deprived of the benefits of the  activities of the United Nations or any of its Agencies.  On that score, Mr. President, with your permission,
1 beg to quote our President in his speech before the  United Nations General Assembly last September.  "I feel constrained to pass a few remarks on the  continued existence of the People's Republic of China  outside the framework of the United Nations. The  Government of Ghana has always supported the view  that the People's Republic of China should be admitted  to the United Nations so that the representation of  China in this Assembly will be more realistic and  more effective and useful,  We believe that the People's Republic of China,  representing some six hundred and thirty million  people, and with the vast economic, scientific and  technological resources that she is rapidly develop-  ing, can have a useful and constructive contribution  to make towards the mairtenance of peace and the ad-  vancement of civilization in our time",
2.25 Ghana has no axe to grind in this matter and it  is hoped that our comments will be taken in the apirit  in which they are made. Our concern is for a situa-  tion to be created in which all nations will benefit  from the work of Unesco. Many a speaker from this  rostrum since the Conference began has peinted out  the need for us to explore all avenues to remove fear  and distrust which divides one nation from the other  today. Ae I said from this rostrum a few days ago,  it is only when hate, fear and greed are removed and  peace and understanding established that the billions,  if not millions of dollars used in the manufacture of  weapons for war can be turned to the service of man-  kind, The Government and people of Ghana believe  that Unesco can in a way help promote this needed  understanding among nations of the world through  education, science and culture,
2,26 Mr. President, one point and I am done, The  Government and people of Ghana regret very much  that Portugal 'i8 not « Member States of Unesco be-  cause we feel that there 18 a great need of the activi-  ties of Unesco in the Portuguese territories of Angola  PLENARY
134  MEETINGS  and Mozambique, Here ig à glaring example of the  evils of colonialism and imperialism, While on one  hand Angola and Mozambique are suffering from the  ill-effects of colonialism - of oppression and sup-  pression, exploitation and degradation - they are  prevented on the other hand - because their " so-  called" masters are not a Member .State of the  Organization - from enjoying the fruits, the blessings  of Unesco which lead to advancement of education,  science and culture, As an African, I cannot help  but appeal to Unesco to explore all possible avenues  in giving help to these our unfortunate brothers,
2.27 I cannot end, Mr. President, without thank.  ing Unesco for its contribution to the United Nations  efforts in the Congo, I wish also to thank Unesco  once more for document 11 C/PRG/3 on the pro-  gramme for Tropical Africa 1961-1962, introduced  in the Programme Commission last Thursday by  Mr, Adiseshiah, Assistant Director-General. Asl  said then, whatever comments some delegates may  perhaps make on the inadequacy of the amount, it is  gratifying that such a move has besn made towards  Africa. In his statement to the Commission it was  appreciated that the vital need for us in Africa is  advancement of education. This advancement of  education not only in Africa but in the whole world,  I am sure, is one of the main functions of Unesco,  It will be in order therefore that in the administration  of Unesco an Assistant Director-General solely re-  sponsible for education should be appointed, This  will enable the Organization to pay greater attention  to and concentrate on the various aspects of educa-  tional programmes which are needed by the Member  States, especially the underdeveloped countries,  Concerning this programme for Tropical Africa, I  cannot hesitate on benalf of the Government and  people of Ghana to express our warmest thanks to  ail governments of Member States which have donatec
80 generously and have therefore made this financial  aid possible for Africa, and particularly the United  States of America and the Federal Republic of  Germany for their generous contributions.  ADOPTION OF PART Il OF THE FIRST REPORT OF THE  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION (continued)
3. The PRESIDENT:  The Conference is asked to consider item 16 of |  the agenda - Adoption of the draft resolution on the  provisional spending and assessment levels for
1961-1962, I shall call on H.E. Mr, Matsui,  delegate of Japan.
4,1 Mr. MATSUI (Japan) (Translated from the  French): .  Mr. President, I do not know what contribution  I can make to the discussion but I shall try to sub-  mit a few relevant findings. The first is this: if  the activities of the Organization increase, it is  natural for its budget to increase also. And surely,  in all conscience the existing situation, not only in  Africa but in other regions too, calls for a consider-  able expansion of Unesco's activities, New action  is necessary in other fields as well as in education.  It is therefore natural for the budget to be increased.  We are often told that administrative costs should be   PLENARY  reduced as far as possible, and some members have  even referred to a saving of from 10 to 15 per cent.  But it is obvious, if activities are undertaken in new  fields, that administrative costs must increase pro-  portionally. It would be too much to ask the Secre-  tarlat to do more work at lower administrative costs.  This is the first point I wanted to make.
4.2 Here is the second, The representative of  Peru observed that the Unesco budget was dependent  on the contributions of Member States, which is as  muchas to say that it falls uponthe shoulders of the tax-  payers in those States, The watchful spokesman of  the taxpayers is, of course, the Minister of Finance,  who is continuously appealing to us to make every  effort to economize, We cannot commit ourselves to  considerable increases in the budget unless the expendi-  ture is justified, and this brings me to my third point,
4,3 It is clear from the two previous points that a  happy mean must be found in satisfying the claims of  Member States. In the present situation, a fair  balance must be maintained between Unesco's planned  activities and the emergency expenditure forced on it  by circumstances, At the same time, we should try  to make justifiable savings in the Organization's ex-  penditure. It is in this spirit that I should like to  support the United States proposal, on the understand-  ing that the figure of $ 31, 597, 628 1s the budget ceil-  ing and that the million dollar increase proposed by  the United States will be devoted more particularly  to education in Africa, but without prejudice to any  decision that the Programme Commission might  reach on the fair distribution of this sum and its use  for other purposes that might be considered neces-  sary.
4,4 1 would be very loth to accept the argument  that this budget ceiling is provisional and that as a  result other valid reasons might be found to tell us  that we must accept another increase to satisfy the  requests of Member States, In short, I repeat that  the total of $ 31,597,628 must be a maximum, if !  am to be able to justify my approval of the United  States proposal to the taxpayers of my country.
4.5 1 should like to take this opportunity to appeal  to the Director-General to make constant efforts  during the 1961-1962 period itself to economize as  far as possible in the use of the financial means at  his disposal - and not only in the administrative  sphere but in all those fields where he would have  valid reason for so doing. I am sure that he will  give my appeal very serious consideration.
5.1 The PRESIDENT:  Before calling upon the next speaker I have an  announcement to make, It was expected that the  Administrative Commission would meet at 4,30 this  afternoon, but since we have not been able to vote on  the spending and assessment levels, the meeting of  the Administrative Commission has been cancelled.
5.2 Inowcalluponthe Head of the delegation of Mexico.
6.1 Mr. YANEZ (Mexico) (Translation from the  Spanish):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, those countries  whose resources are insufficient to meet their own -  needs are hesitant - and this is understandable - with  regard to the budget increase of an international  organization like Unesco.
135  MEETINGS IX
6.2 But this increase is justified in order to meet  the urgent educational and cultural needs existing in  different parts of the world and, more particularly,  in the new Member States whose needs we fully recog-  nize,
6.3 If the majority of the delegations are in fayour  of the increased budget, Mexico will vote in support.  However, we consider that an increase in the Unesco  budget, to which all the Member States contribute,  should be used for the needs of the world as a whole  and not devoted to a single region, even if it may  happen to be one's own,
6.4 Unesco already has adequate institutional  channels available including the Special Account, for  cases in which individual States or groups of States  nsed additional resources in order to intensify opera-  tions under existing regional projects,
6.5 The extraordinary contributions from States  possessing greater resources might be received by  Unesco and earmarked for special projects, without  prejudice to the world-wide activity proper to the  Organization's programme,
6.6 For these reasons, the delegation of Mexico,  if a decision is taken to increase the budget, will  support the Brazilian proposal which, by calling for  a general balance, is more in line with the universal  objectives of the Organization,
7. The PRESIDENT:
1 now call upon HE. Dr. Ronald Walker, Head  of the Australian delegation. Dr. Walker is not a  stranger to this Conference, he was the President  of the fourth session of the General Conference and  also one-time Chairman of the Executive Board of  Unesco.
8.1 Mr. WALKER (Australia):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, it 18 an honour  and a pleasure for me to appear again at a Uneaco  Conference after an absence of quite a number of  years, The subject on which I speak for the firat  time in the plenary session is that of our budget  ceiling. The viewpoint of the Australian delegation  on questions of a budgetary nature has always been  one of careful scrutiny and one of appeal to organiza-  tions for economy. We have always taken the view  that everything possible should be done to avoid  overlapping of the activities of different international °  agencies and to concentrate the available money and  resources on really important international projects.  We have always stressed also how essontial it is to  have regard to other programmes and responsibilities  that are being undertaken by Member States in the  international field,
8.2 Today, Mr. President, we have before us  four different proposals regarding the provisional  spending level for the next two years. -I am very  happy to say that it is the position of the Australian  delegation that the General Conference ahould adopt  the highest of these four figures, $ 31, 507, 628 as  the provisional spending level for the next two years.
8.3 Mr. President, the Executive Board had pro-  posed a figure of a little more than $30, 500,000 and  the Director-General had proposed certain additions.  We were already favourable to some increase above  the figure provisionally suggested by the Board,  which of course was subject to any decisions to be   IX ’ PLENARY  taken by this Conference, because of the operations  undertaken by Unesco in relation to the problems of  the Congo. It is the view of the Australian delegation  that aome of the attendant administrative expenses  could appropriately be carried under the budget, How-  ever, Mr, President, the basic reason why we support  the highest of the four figures submitted to the Con-  ference is our recognition of the urgency of the needs  of Africa and of the supreme importance of this  Organization playing its part in helping the countries  of Africa with their programmes of educational  development.
8.4 As a country just on the edge of Asla, Australia  has in the past always been particularly conscious of  the needs of Asia, not only in the field of education  but in all the various aspects of economic and social  development. We have ourselves made considerable  efforts to assist our neighbours in Asia: at present  in Australia there are some 6,000 Asian students in  Australian schools, colleges and universities; in our  universities and higher institutions there are some
3,000 Asfan students, many of whom are on scholar-  ships provided by the Australian government; and the  position today is that every twentieth student in an  Australian university comes from Agia, We shall  continue to give this and other kinds of assistance to  Asia and we look forward in the future to increased  activity also on the part of Unesco in these countries  that are neighbours of Australia,
8.5 But at this stage in the world's history, when  in this Organization as in others we are welcoming  so many newly independent nations of Africa, it is  only natural that the whole world and that Unesco  should be prepared to concentrate a substantially  larger part of its programme towards meeting the  urgent needs of Africa. And although Africa is far  from Australia we have already taken certaing steps  in this direction. Just recently we have had two  educational missiors visiting a number of countries  in Africa, studying ‘heir problems and investigating  the ways in which Ausiralia in the future can directly  assist those countries in specific aspects of their  educational development.
8.6 At this time, Mr. President, we are welcoming  to our midst new me.nbers from Africa. It would be  a very natural thing that our programme should re-  flect the increased African membership, quite apart  from any other consideration of the special needs of  this area,
8.7 For these reasons, the Australian delegation  has great pleasure in supporting in general terms  the United States proposal to devote an extra million  dollars or thereabouts to the educational programmes  of this Organization in connexion with Africa. What  we are votingon, cf course, at this session of the General  Conference is the budget ceiling, not onthe detailed  allocation of the funds. Invoting for this figure of  $ 31,597, 628 the Australian delegation understands that  we are setting the framework within which the Programme  Commission will consider various projects witha view  to bringing forwardto the General Conference recom-  mendations as to the programme and the budgetary  arrangements that are necessary to give effect tothem.
9. The PRESIDENT:
1 now call upon Mr. Lavrichenko, delegate of the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.  \ 136  MEETINGS
10.1 Mr. LAVRICHENKO (Union of Soviet Socla}ist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian);  Mr. President and fellow delegates, the General  Conference has been presented with proposals re-  garding the Organization's budget for 1961-1962,  which envisage a considerable increase in Unesco  expenditure as compared with the previous budget.  In discussing such an important question us the  Organization's budget it is essential to know for what  purposes and in execution of what concrete measures  it is planned to spend these Unesco funds, It would  therefore be advisable for the Conference to begin  by thoroughly discussing the Direotor-General's  proposals for the programme of activities of the  Organization for the two years concerned, and only  then, after the proposals of all the delegations have  been taken into account, would it be possible to make  a reasoned decision on ‘Whether the Organization's  budget should be amended, However, since the  Conference has adopted a different procedure for  examining these questions I should like to put forward  some of the Soviet Union delegation's points concern-  ing the proposal for the total amount of the budget  for 1961-1962,
10,2 The Head of the Soviet Government, Mr. N.S.  Khruschev, in his message to the eleventh session  of the General Conference, which was read out here  a few days ago, sald that "Unesco can make a signi-  ficant contribution to the glorious task of building up  a world without war, a world without armaments, a  world without oppressed and enslaved peoples.  Only under conditions of lasting peace", he stressed,  "can there be really fruitful collaboration between  scientists, cultural workers and educators in all  countries with a view to solving the many wejghty  problems confronting mankind''. The Unacco  Constitution also speaks of the necessity for consoli-  dating peace and raising the level of well-being of  nations, of respect for the human personality with-  out regard to race or to political or religious con-  victions.
10.3 What successes has Unesco so far achieved  in this noble and humane task? It has to be recog-  nized in answer to this question that the Organization  has certain successes to its credit. Useful work is  also envisaged in Unesco's programme for 1961-1962  in the field of educational development in Africa,  Asla and Latin America and in oceanography, seis-  mology etc, At the same time, it has to be stated  that Unesco's programme of activity takes no  account of the need for active participation in the  solution of the most urgent problems of the day,  namely, the application of the principles of the  peaceful coexistence of States with different soclal  and economic systems, the struggle for general and  complete disarmament, the elimination of the shame-  ful colonial system, and in particular the removal  of the after-effects of colonialism in the fields of  education, science and culture. :
10.4 How deeply colonialism has left its roots in  the formerly oppressed countries is apparent,  gentlemen, from the documents distributed to us at  this Conference. In the report on the nceds of Asia  in primary education, it is pointed out that in order  to eliminate illiteracy among children of school age,  funds are required to a total of $56, 000 millions.  Upwards of 70 million Asian children of achool age   PLENARY MEETINGS IX  are not attending school. In the Africen courtries - 1  take my figures from Unesco documents - there are  over 15 million children of school age in the same  position.
10,5 One of the speakers declared during our dis-  cussions that the world did nôt have the funds available  for solving these problems, 1 beg to differ, however,  the world has the available funds for rapidly eliminat-  ing the sharneful system of colonfalism, Please re-  member that $ 100,000 million are wasted every year  on armaments, I reiterate, the amount wasted on  armaments every year is $ 100,000 million, of which  about $ 46, 000 million are squandered by the United  States of America. It is clear therefore, that the  creation, with the support of Unesco, of anatmosphere  conducive to the achievement of general and complete  disarmanient is the key question which will effectively  enable us to make headway, with seven-league strides,  in the matter of eliminating illiteracy and providing  instruction and education, Is it not clear, fellow  delegates, that only under conditions of peace can  there be a real flowering of science, education and  culture and a specdy solution of the problems con-  fronting the economically underdeveloped countries?  How can the work of Unesco be effective if {t does not  strive to create the basic conditions essential for the  successful fulfilment of its programme?
10,6 Furthermore, 1 wish to draw your attention to  the fact that the General Conference {s presented at  each of its sessions with proposals for increasing  Unescots budget without any sufficiently marked im-  provement ever occurring in the Organization's work.  Just as before, the Organization's funds are being  scattered on a host of insignificant undertakings, Just  as before, considerable sums are being spent on con-  ducting all manner of protracted investigations and  surveys that produce no practical results. In such  circumstances, every new proposal for increasing  the budget inevitably causes uneasiness among the  Member States, which ask themaelves how long the  budget is to go on increasing without any radical im-  provement taking place in the Organization's work.
10.7 It is essential, in the opinion of the Soviet  Union delegation, to establish firm figures for the  Unesco budget, We are convinced that even within  the framework of a fixed total budget there would be  wide scope in Unesco for augmenting the allocations  for programme activities without an increase in the  contributions of Member States. The Unesco Secre-  tarlat should accordingly make a determined effort  to improve its working methods, simplify the organiza-  tional stricture of the apparatus, reduce administra-  tive costs and achieve the goal of carrying out all its  actlyities with a smaller staff,
10.8 In the meantiny, the Proposed Programme a  and Budget for 1961-1962 provides for an increase of  almost 100 in the Secretariat staff. The expenses  for temporary staff, fôr siaff travel and for services  is inordinately high. Can it be considered normal  that the staff engaged in what is called General  Admintstration, under which come the Office of the  Director-General, the Bureau of the Comptroller,  the Bureau of Personnel and the Bureau of Conference  Planning and General Services, should amount to 250,  as compared with a total figure of 650 in the pro-  gramme departments? Is it normal that a quarter of  the Organization's budget should be spent on
137  administration and common services? The present  outlay on office supplies, furniture, communications  and freight etc, 18 far too high,
10,9 Instead of taking measures to reduce these  expenses, the Director-General proposcs to increase  them by almost $ 1,000,000, We see no justification  for example, for the steep increase of nine in the  staff of the Olfice of the Director-General, or for the  additional seven posts for the Bureau of Personnel, or  forthe additional staff for the Intérnational Exchange’  Service, and so on, Our aim should be, not to ex-  pand the staff, but rather to improve the organization  of work, Staff costs, which are already excessively  high, should not be indefinitely increased. We can-  not waste half the Organization's funds on staff  salaries and on the construction of the new building.  It is time to put an end to this waste of the Organiza-  tion's funds to little purpose.
10,10 Fellow delegates, in making these criticisms  the Soviet delegation 1s moved by only one desire; to  help the Organization to expend the funds contributed  by the Member States wisely, rationally and to good  purpose. Every rouble, every franc and every dollar  represents human labour, remember, and we have  no right to spend the people's money without profit  to the essential cause in view.
10,11 The Soviet Union is giving disinterested aid  to the underdeveloped countries of South East Asia  on a considerable scale in order to help foster their  economy, culture and science. The Soviet Govern-  ment has allocated thousands of millions of roubles  for these purposes in the conviction that they are  being used for the most vital nzeds of those countries  on the road to independent development, Our Organiza-  tion's aim should also be that budget allocations should  be used directly for the development of education,  the elimination of illiteracy, the creation of a body  of skilled local workers and the promotion of science  and culture in the countries of Asia, ‘Africa and  Latin America, and especially in the African States  which have recently achieved political independence.
10.12 The Soviet Union delegation considers it  _ necessary, in this connexion, to instruct the Director-  General to formulate concrete proposals to reduce  administrative expenditure and staff employed in the  general administration of the Secretariat by 15%, so  that all the funds released could Le used for educa-  tional requirements and the elimination of illiteracy  in the countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America.
10.13 Mr. President, in view of the fact that many  countries are faced with vitally important problems  in regard to the speedy elimination of the after-effects  of colonialism, and that it is incumbent upon Unesco  to take a most active part in solving these problems,  and bearing in mind the wishes of the overwhelming  majority of the represéntatives of the sovereign States  of Asia, Africa and LatinAmerica, whohave applied to  our Conference with requests for effective and concrete  aid, the Soviet Union delegation expresses its readiness  to vote for the proposed level of the Unesco budget for
1961-1962, Atthe same time, we hope that the increased  budget will, in fact, be spent on the paramount essen-  t{al needs of Africa, Asia and Latin America, ~
11. The PRESIDENT;  I now call upon H.E, Dr, Raadi, Head of the  delegation of Iran.   IX PLENARY
12,1 Mr, RAADI (Iran) (Translation from the  French);  Mr, President, the delegation of Iran, in accord-  ance with the instructions it has received, will be able  to vote for the budget increase proposed by the  Director-General within the framework of document
12,2 We should have liked to do the same in the .  case of the other inoreases proposed, with which we  Have every sympathy, but the fact that these proposals  were communicated to our Government belatedly, thus  mes king it impossible for it to examine them in detail  either from the budgetary angle or from that of the  planned use of the funds concerned, compols us, while  awaiting new instructions which we hope will be posi-  tive and favourable, to adopt an attitude of reserve  for the moment,
12.3 I take this opportunity to make a general  observation of a somewhat technical nature on the  question before us in the hope that it will be considered  by the competent organ of the General Conference  when directives for the future programme are being  drawn up, as well as by the Executive Board and the  Director-General,
12.4 It is high time for Unesco, in the light of the  experience gained, to seek a vational solution to the  problems of financing its budget, both on the procedur-  al level and from the standpoint of resources, There
18 no doubt that Unesco's activities are expanding and  that its budget is growing, as it inevitably must, from  one session to the next. But history of the previous  sessions - especially those of Florence and New  Delhi - and also the experience of the present session,  to some extent, provide plenty of evidence that all  these increases have been proposed, debated, opposed  or adopted in an atmosphere of uncertainty, not to say  confusion and improvisation.
12,5 To avoid these drawbacks and to ensure  Unesco's harmonious development and a regular but  not unexpected increase in its budget, would it not be  posaible to Introduce a rule whereby the Director-  General would be authorized in advance to prepare  the future programme, in the course of each budget-  ary period, within the framework of à budget auto-  matically increasable bya reasonable percentage, say
10, 15 or 20 per cent over the previous budget? In  this way, with the ceiling for regular and ordinary  increases in the budget being fixed in accordance  with a pre-established principle, the Director-General,  the Executive Board and the Member States would  find it easier, in preparing the programme, to reach  agreement on priorities and on the scope of new acii-  vities; and the consultations, more fruitful if leas  numerous, would take place in an atmosphere of  complete understanding. .
12,6 In other words, if this principle is adopted,  the provisional celling for every budget will hence-  forwar¢. de known at least two years in advance, the  Director-General will take it into account in drawing  up his future programme, and the Member States  will be able to draw the necessary conclusions from  the latter in good time $u making an approximate  estimate of their contributions,
12,7 It goes without saying that this regular In-  crease would be devoted to the normal and anticipated  expansion of the programme, and would be met by the  contributions of Member States. ’  “ 138  MEETINGS
12,8 However, to make it possible for the Director-  General to act with reasonable speed in the case of  certain important and exceptional problems - as was -  tbe case this year after the recent decisions of the  Economic and Soolal Council on Tropical Africa - it  would in our opinion be advisable to consider setting  up an emergency fund, This fund would receive its  resources not from the contributions of Member  States for the Regular programme but from extra-  budgetary sources such as voluntary contributions,  the Speclal Account and, if possible, from savings  made on previous regular budgets,
12,9 Finally, subject to a thorough examination  and later negotiations, Unesco, in order to finance  this emergency fund and for certain other operations,  might possibly seek a loan from the International  Development Association in accordance with Article  V.2.C of the latter's Articles of Agreements,
12.10 As to the methods used in preparing the  programme and budget, we agree - pending the re-  sponse evoked by our modest suggestions - with the  new system proposed by the Director-General in  document 11 C/20, with one reservation,
12,11 It is essential that the proposed programme  and budget be sent to Member States - always within  the framework of the present system or that pro-  posed by the Director-General - at least two months  before the opening of the session of the General  Conference, without any possibility of submitting  corrigenda or addenda involving a rise in the budget  ceiling after that date, We believe that in any case,  the Director-General would have no need to have re-  course to addenda if the principle of automatic in-  creases recommended by us is applied.
12,12 However that may be, it has to be recog-  nized that ag matters stand these corrigenda, some-  times pouring in in successive waves on the eve of  Conference sessions, take not only the Executive  Board but even more the delegations and ministries  of education of the Member States, unawares and  compel them to engage in repeated negotiations with  their ministries of finance in order to obtain their  successive agreement on a budgetary plan which  changes from one day to the next.
12.13  Therehave, of course, been exceptional  circumstances which have justified the preparation  of corrigenda and the delay {n communicating the  proposed programme and) udget this year, but these  exceptions must in no circi metances be allowed to  become the rule. In conclusion, Mr. President,  and without disputing Unesco's competence in the  field of music, we trust that in the future the  accordeon will not be the only instrument providing  the leit-motiv in estimating the budget ceiling for  each programme,
13. The PRESIDENT: I call upon the Head of the  delegation of Nicaragua, Dr. Quintanilla.
14.1 Mr. QUINTANILLA (Nicaragua) (Translation  from the Spanish):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, to begin with  I have much pleasure in welcoming the entrance of  the independent States of Africa into this great  family of Unesco.
14.2 As the representative of Nicaragua, a Latin  American country which has had in the past to fight   PLENARY  for its national independence and which is now fighting  to safeguard the basic values of its culture and apiri-  tual heritage, I can only welcome the arrival of the  young African nations which are joining our Organiza-  tion in order to assert their vocation to freedom and  to defend their right to education, science and culture.
14,3 “My attitude here should not be interpreted,  therefore, as opposition to the basic aid which the  African nations need, look forward to and merit, but  as a whole-hearted wish to find an equitable solution  to the important problem of the Organization's budget  celling for the 1861-1862 period.
14,4 The delegation of Nicaragua views sympa-  thetically the proposals submitted by the delegations  of Brazil and the United States of America respec-  tively. They each represent a substantial increase  which will reinforce Unesco's work, open new possi-  bilities of action to this great international institution,  and involve financial responsibilities which all  countries should face up to in a noble spirit of co-  operation and international solidarity,
14.5 However, my delegation has certain reserva-  tions, Mr, President, as regards the.purpose for  which these budget increases will be used. We are  afraid that the additional resources may be diverted  unilaterally to the detriment of the increases re-  quired for other programmes initiated by Unesco in  other parts of the world,
14.6 The delegation of Nicaragua will support any  increase in the Organization's budget which is based  on the equitable distribution of its resources, on a  sound administrative policy, and on adequate financial  support for the new programmes of expansion,
14.7 We are of the opinion, Mr, President, that  the projects initiated by Unesco in the Western hemi-  sphere, among which the Major Project on the Exten-  sion and Improvement of Primary Education in Latin  America, is an outstanding example of effectiveness,  should be maintained and developed in order that the  effort should not peter out in lack of interest or  abandonment.
14.8 We believe that our Organization owes a debt  to Africa, and that the United States proposal will  help to rectify a great wrong; but we think that the  Brazilian proposal more closely matches the interests  of the Latin American peoples, who are now engaged  in an unremitting struggle to overcome the results of  underdevelopment, to raise their living standards and  to rescue 70 million Latin Americans from the moral  destitution to which illiteracy subjects them,
14.9 Mr. President, we should like to vote for the  budget with the highest celling, and would therefore  suggest that agreement be reached between the delega-  tions of Brazil and the United States, so that a unified  and satisfactory formula can be found which would  reconcile the generous motives inspiring them both,
14,10 Perhaps the Director-General should be given  some latitude in applying the new resources to be  used so as to place the main emphasis on Africa but  without disregarding the programmes now developing  in Asia, the Arab States and Latin America.
14.11 I have every confidence, Mr. President, in  the Secretariat's ability and in the Director-General's  sound judgement, prudence and wisdom, They should  be left to establish the necessary priorities between  the needs of Member States and present us with a  balanced programme with its general lines revised.
139  MEETINOS IX
14,12 I am also convinced, Mr, President, that  Brazil and the United States of America, those two  great countries of the new world, to whose initiative  we owe this major step in placing greater resources  at Unesco's disposal, will find a common path and  thus enable the Latin American delegations to this  Conference to approve the budget ceiling unanimously.  In this way, fellow Latin American delegates, the  apiritual unity of the continent will be vigorously  maintained at this memorable Conference of Unesco,  The PRESIDENT:  I now call upon Mr. Klibi, of the delegation of  Tunisia,
16,1 Mr, KLIBI (Tunisia) (Translation from the  French): ;  Mr, President, ladies and gentlémen, I have the  honour and pleasure of speaking for the first time  at a plenary meeting, on behalf of the Tunisian  delegation, in order to express its attitude on the  proposals made with regard to item 16 of the agenda.
16,2 I shall be brief, and shall confine myself to  a few observations giving the reasons for my delega-  tion's support of the United States proposal in docu-  ment 11 C/DR/60, In the first place, it seems to me  that since we have admitted a large number of newly  independent States this year, and since most of these  are African, it would be logical for us to be able to  meet our responsibilities towards these new Member  States, Their needs are urgent and are confronting  our Organization with a new situation which we can-  not ignore.
18,3 In addition, reference has been made to dis-  crimination, I think that the word was mistakenly  used, for there is no question of discrimination but  rather of the scientifically and clearly recognized  urgency of certain needs which it is for us to satisfy.  What we are faced with, therefore, 18 a duty of  human solidarity, as it were, which we would be  fulfilling for the benefit of a group of formerly under-  privileged countries, It would be more accurate, I  feel, to speak of a priority given to a geographical  region, the needs of which are apparent to all. This  form of priority can be compared, moreover, to that  granted by a country for the development of a parti-  cular region within its borders s0 as to enable it to  overcome its backwardness as compared with the  rest of the country. Any action which seeks to be  effective must proceed on these lines, and must  therefore be planned in accordance with orders of  priority and urgency.
16.4 Comparing the two proposals before us -  those of Brazil and of the United Statés of America -  we see that the total sums referredtoinbothare much  the same. A decistontouse them simultaneously for a  great number of tasks inevitably involves a risk of  dispersal of effort, andultimatelyof ineffectiveness.
16.5 Mr, President, it has been repeatedly said  that this is Africa's year, and even that this present  session was being held under the sign of Africa, I  believe it is our duty to see that this claim is con-  cretely reflected in our actions.
17.1 The PRESIDENT:  The General Conference 18 now asked to vote a  figure which will represent the provisional spending   IX PLENARY  ‘level for the budget for 1861-1862, The vote {8s on  the proposition furthest removed from that of the  Director-General, namely the proposal of the United  States of America for the provisional spending level  of $ 31,597,628, It will be the task of the Programme  Commission and Administrative Commission to work  out the details of how this sum is to be utilized, taking  into special account the educational needa of Africa,
17.2 I now call upon the lead of the delegation of  Brazil, H,E, Mr. de Berredo Carneiro.
18.1 Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  (Translation from the French):  Mr. President, the sole object of the point of order
1 wish to raise is to make quite clear to the meeting  the sense of what you have just said concerning the  vote we are about to take, If I have understood aright,  you are asking us to decide on a budget ceiling which  would be that proposed by the United States delegation -  $ 31,597,628, it being understood that the Programme  Commission will be able to take this figure into ac-  count in considering the programme as presented by  the Director-Goneral and in tho form resulting from  the new proposals presented to the General Confer-  ence, without any other conditions being attached to it  at the moment than that, of course, of paying special  attention to the problem of Africa, with which we are  all concerned.
18.2 If this is the case, Mr, President, I should  like to make an earnest appeal to this gathering to  approve the budget ceiling proposed by the United  States of America, if not by acclamation, should our  Rules not permit us to do so, then at least by a very  large majority.
19.1 The PRESIDENT:  I think the position has been made very clear, We  are voting on the figure as a whole proposed by the  United States of America. It will be for the Pro-  gramme Commission and the Administrative Com-  mission to work out the details of how this amount  will be utilized, of course, taking into account the  needs of new Member States, Since a two-thirds  majority is required to pass this budget, it will be  necessary to take a vote by roll-call.
19.2 The delegate of Uruguay wishes to speak on  a point of order.
20,1 Mr. PONS (Uruguay) (Translation from the  Spanish):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, the delegation  of Uruguay regards the proposals for a higher budget  ceiling presented by the United States of America and  Brazil as very commendable, for they increase the  volume of Unesco's expenditure and resources, with  the consequent possibility of enlarging the scope of  Unesco's work,
20.2 While fully appreciating the lofty motives in-  spiring the United States proposal, Uruguay will vote  for that submitted by Brazil, which it regards as  taking more effective and equitable account of the uni-  versality of the objectives for which this Organization  was founded.
21.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 am afraid this ie not a point of order. You may  speak only on the point of order now. The delegation  MEETINGS  of Uruguay is quite free to vote as it wishes, but  you may now speak only on the point of order,
21,2 We shall now take the roll-call vote,
22, (The vote was taken by roll.call,  Voted in favour: Afghanistan, Argentina,  Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil,  Cameroun, Canada, Central African Republic,  Ceylon, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo (capital:  Brazzaville), Costa Rica, Cuba, Denmark, Ecuador,  El Salvador, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Federal  Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala,  India, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan Jordan,  Korea, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Federation of  Malaya, Mexico, Monaco, Morocco, Netherlands,  New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan,  Panama, Peru, Philippines, Senegal, Somalia, Spain,  Sudan, Switzerland, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey,  United Arab Republic, United Kingdom, United States  of America, Viet-Nam, Yugoslavia.  Abstained: Albania, Bulgaria, Byelorussian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Czechoslovakia, Hungary,  Iran, Poland, Rumania, Sweden, Ukrainian Soviet  Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, Venezuela.  Absent: Burma, Cambodia, Dahomey, Dominion  Republic, Gabon, Guinea, Haiti, Honduras, Indonesia,  Iraq, Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Luxembourg, Mali,  Nepal, Niger, Saudi Arabia, Togo, Upper Volta,  Uruguay).
23.1 The PRESIDENT: The result of the vote is  as follows: 63 in favour; none against; 12 abstentions;  and 21 absent, The resolution is thus adopted in  full,
23.2 1 call upon the Director-General.
24.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL (Translation  from the French):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, may I be  permitted to say how greatly heartened I am by the  result of this vote, which constitutes a basis of work  for the Conference.
24.2 Some days ago, several delegates requested  that the General Conference should get down to work  by examining in detail the programme and its admini-  strative implications. This work has already begun,  but the result of your vote now glves it a solid basis,  which cannot but augur well for the Conference's  activities.
24.3 1 should like to add one point. In view of the  fact that several delegations referred, during the  discussion, to certain aspects of the programme  and to certain aspects of administration, and also  alluded to certain pointers which they wished to give  the Director-General for the future, I should like to  say that I have already taken careful note of the re-  marks and recommendations formulated, and shall  make it my bounden duty to base myself onthem during  this Conference in considering and interpreting the  directives that you may be good enough to give me.
24.4 More particularly, 1 thank the delegations of  Brazil and the United States of America for their  proposals for increasing the budget which have cul-  minated in this extremely stimulating result, I also  express my thanks to the General Conference on  behalf of the Secretariat as a whole,   PLENARY  REQUEST FOR THE INCLUSION OF A NEW ITEM IN THE AGENDA
26,1 The PRESIDENT:  With reference to the new item introduced by the  delegation of Cuba, the General Committee has ruled  that the item should not be included in the agenda.  According to the Rules of Procedure we shall have to  take a vote by roll-call, since a two-thirds majority  is required for the inclusion of a new item.
25.2 The delegate of Cuba wishes to speak,
26,1 Mr, FERNANDEZ RETAMAR (Cuba)  (Translation from the Spanish);  Mr, President and fellow delegates, this eleventh  session of the General Conference of Uneaco has  opened with a chorus of welcome to the new African  countries, countries recently decolonized, to which  my country, like the whole of our America, 18 united  by 80 many bonds, just as my country is united to all  those fighting against imperialism and colonialism,
26.2 This welcome, which has been repeated over  and over again and in which we seem to be unanimous,  will be no more than an empty phrase if it is not ac-  companied by an agreement to help maintain all  nations in conditions of true freedom and to condemn  any attempt at intervention by one country in the  affairs of another on account of economic, social or  cultural differences, Such was the sense of the  Republic of Cuba's proposal,
26.3 The new item proposed by Cuba is the natural  corollary to this welcome to the new countries,
26.4 Allow me, fellow delegates, to quote from  meraory, for I have not the text before me, from a  notable lecture by the great poet Paul Valéry on the  origins of the First World War, in which he said that  the reasona which might lead contemporary writers  to turn towards those of classical times were not  imaginary but were to be found in the newspapers.
26.5 In the same way, fellow delegates, the reasons  which should compel this distinguished gathering to  accept so vital an item as the Cuban proposal in its  agenda are far from imaginary; they are to be found  in the newpapers, if I may quote Paul Valéry.
26.6 Hence, the rejection of this item, and by an  intellectual organization at that, would be tantamount  to closing one's eyes to an extremely serious fact  which affects precisely those nations whose admission  we have just greeted with such feeling,
26.7 We did so only a few hours after expressing  our keen satisfaction at the final stage marking the  twilight of colonialism.
26.8 Fellow delegates, we now have an opportunity  of testing the sincerity of those words, the sincerity  of the welcome extended in this very hall, before this  very gathering.
27.1 The PRESIDENT:  I should like to remind the Corference that the  question before the Conference is the very limited  question of whether this item 1e to be included in the  agenda or not. The {tem was referred to the General  Committee which ruled that it should not be included.  Since two delegations have asked for a vote by roll-  call I now ask for a roll-call vote to be taken.
27.2 The delegate from the United States of America  wishes to speak but I should like to make it clear  that we are not discussing the merits of the case,
141  MEETINGS IX  we are only discussing whether this item should be  included in the agenda or not, I call upon Mr, Thayer,  Head of the delegation of the United States of America,
28,1 Mr, THAYER (United States of America):  Mr. President, the General Committee this  morning voted against including this item on the  agenda, by a vote of 9 to 3, with 5 abstentions; thus  nine representatives felt that this item should not be  included upon the agenda, The United States delega-  tion was one of this number, and I think, Mr,  President, that it is fair that this Conference should  know the reasons for the United States! vote in this  matter. First of all, as most delegates here realize,  the United States is party to an agreement with the  Organization of American States, and in that Agree-  ment there is a specific provision that no member  of the Organization of American States shall inter-  vene in the internal affairs of any country, There-  fore, Mr, President, I speak as one who is bound  by an agreement,
28,2 In any event, however, it is needless for the  United States to have an agreement to prevent it  from intervening in the affairs of any nation, It is  with the deepest regret that I am Qu anelled to appear  before you this afternoon, to urge ‘that Vite matter  not be put on the agenda. It is at this moys jent that  my worst fears that something would wind the cold  war into this Conference of Unesco are close to  being realized, That the political relations between  Cuba and the United States are in a state of extreme  tension is obvious to everyone in the world. But, as  I have sald many times, when political tensions are  at their worst, that is the time when educational,  scientific and cultural relations should be increased  and concentrated upon, At a time when many harsh  words were being said in Havana about the United  States by the Cuban Government, the Cuban people  were cheering and throwing flowers at the feet of the  American Ballet Theatre, then playing in Havana.  Here in Unesco, where we are concerned with the  relationship of the people of one country with the  people of another country rather than that of the  government of one country with the government of  another country, there is no reason why we should  censure anyone,
28,3 I submit, Mr. President, that no word of  censure, no word to the effect that someone is re-  prehensible, belongs on the agenda of this Conference,  and I urge that this item be removed so that we may  eliminate forever the discussion of political tension  and remain entirely in the realm of those things  which bind people together. If we put an item of  this kind on the agenda, we are immediately running  the danger of turning this Organization jito another  cold- war political forum, It is a very serious  danger; if it happens the United States will have no  other recourse than to use everything in its power  to preserve its rights, and to wage a cold war into  which it will have been unwillingly forced.
28.4 I think this is crucial, I think we are on the  very brink of something that may destroy this _  Conference, I think this is one of the most important  issues that have come before us. We have our choice  to make, either we can eliminate this from this  Conference entirely and go on with our work after  approving the budget, or we can put an {tem on the   IX PLENARY  agenda which will plunge us into a long political  squabble which will take up our time and ruin our  efforts. The choice, Mr. President, is with the  delegates of this Conference; Iam confident that  they will make the right choice.
28, The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the delegate of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics,
30.1 Mr, LAPIN (Union of Soviet Soctalist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, no country, 1  consider, has the right to present our Conference  with ultimatumas of any kind, Neither is there any  need, surely, to address us in a threatening tone, and  talk about leaving or not leaving the Conference, This  is no way to discuss problems, It is not my intention  to plead in favour of the retention of this question on  the agenda in the form in which it is put here; I  merely wish to draw attention to the fact that Cuba  has submitted a resolution which is of great import-  ance for our times, As can be seen from a scrutiny  of document 11 C/39, it calls no country whatsoever  into question,
30.2 For reasons of formal procedure, the resolu-  tion was not included in the agenda but was trans-  mitted to the General Committee, every one of whose  meetings I attended, Today, it is true, the resolution  wag discussed, but it was disposed of in 20 minutes  as all the delegates were in a hurry to get to the  plenary meeting. And now they would like to tell us  that the delegates are in a hurry to have a break, It
18 quite wrong to treat tie discussion of important  principles in this manner. It is not a question, in  the Cuban proposal, of intervening in the internal  affairs of any country, but on the contrary, of no  country intervening in the affairs of another. That  is what the Cuban proposal is about.
30.3 I.should therefore like to submit an amend-  ment which might set all parties at rest: in view of  the fact that neither in the General Committee nor  here today have we had time to discuss this question  in detail, I recommend on the basia of Rule 32 of the  Rules of Procediire of the General Conference, that  the question of the proposal introduced by Cuba be  referred to the Legal Committee for consideration  and study. Until it has been carefully studied, we  are in no position at the moment to judge whether the  formulation of this question is in order or not. 1  appeal to all of you to consider this question calmly,  without haste or unnecessary irritability, for it ia of  vital importance both for the present day and for the  future.
31. The PRESIDENT: I call upon the delegate of  Czechoslovakia,
32.1 Mr, KAHUDA (Czechoslovakia) (Translation  from the Ruesian);  Mr. President, fellow delegates, the General  Committee has decided to turn down the Cuban delega-  tion's request that proposal 11 C/39 be included in  the agenda, As I have already stated at the meeting  of the General Cémuiltice, the Czechoslovak delega-  tion considers this ruling unsound, It takes the view  that Unesco should act in accordance with the principles  MEETINGS  of the United Nations and its own principles, which  apply to all nations and require them to live in peace-  ful coexistence and not to intervene in each other's  affairs, These principles call for compliance with  the request of the Cuban Government, as of any other  government which demands discussion of phenomena  in conflict with the basic principles set forth in  Unesco's Constitution,
32.2 The President proposes that we proceed to  vote and decide immediately on the question of  whether Unesco should examine the Cuban Govern-  ment's proposal, As the Czechoslovak delegation  regards this question as a very important and com-  plex one, we feel that in such circumstances it would  be preferable, befcre the matter is put to the vote  by the Conference, to refer it to the Legal Committee  for consideration, The delegation of the Socialist  Republic of Czechoslovakia accordingly supports the  proposal submitted by the Soviet Union delegation,
33, The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the delegate of Poland.
34.1 Mr, WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) (Translation  from the Russian):  Mr, President, I appear to be the first speaker  who was not present at the General Committee meet-  ing where the discussions on this question took place.
1 am therefore unaware of what took place there, but
1 must say that I am amazed at this tendency at a  General Conference to reject proposals subraitted  by individual Member States for the inclusion of  items in the agenda. In the course of the present  session we have rejected several proposals for the  inclusion of highly important items in the agenda, to  my mind, this is a bad system which infringes the  explicit moral rights, if not the formal rights, of  individual Member States, and we should not have  taken that line,
34.2 Aas to the agenda item proposed by Cuba, I  shall not go into the substance of the question, aince  all we are discussing at the moment is its inclusion,  However, I should like to say that questions connected  with the cold war, as was here the case, should not  lead to a rise in the temperature of the cold war. It  seems to me that what is now being suggested to us  here is the rejection of a proposal by Cuba to include  in the agenda the question of non-intervention in the  fields of science, education and culture, The rejec- .  tion of this proposal has the effect of warming up  the cold war, and I am in complete agreement with  the United States delegate that the cold war should  not be warmed up.
34.3 But in that case we should together find some  means or other so that Member States are not de-  prived of the possibility of placing questions on the  agenda which they consider to be urgent and import-  ant from their own standpoint. I consider it neèes-  sary to find a way out that would satisfy these  Member States, As far as the substancé of the  question is concerned, I happen to support the text  of the proposal. In my opinion we must find a way  out that does not run counter to the rights of Member  States. The latter muat feel themselves fully com-  petent members of our Organization, and it there-  fore seems to me that the question submitted by  Cuba should be discussed. However, in view of the   PLENARY  opposition of the United States delegation to the inclu-  sion of this question In the agenda, I feel that a com-  promise golution could be adopted: namely, that the  legal aspects could first be considered by the Legal  Committee of the General Conference,
35. The PRESIDENT;  The detegate of the United States of America rises  on a point of order.
36. Mr. THAYER (United States of America);  I rise on a point of order, Mr. President, to say  that it seemed to me that no legal question was in-  volved and to ask the Director-General, if no legal  question is involved, whether it is appropriate that  the proposal should be referred to a Legal Committee ?  It seems to me that if it 1s referred to the Legal  Committee it must come back to the floor again, I  would like to put the question, must it not come back  again to the Conference and are we not merely delay-  ing something that is unpleasant?
37. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the Director-General,
38. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL (Translation from  the French):  If I understood correctly, the United States delegate  wishes to know whether, from the Secretariat's view-  point there is any obligation to refar the proposal  under discussion to the Legal Committee, That  Committee is normally seized of questions having  legal implications when they are included in the agenda.  The point now under discussion is the inclusion of a  new item in the agenda. That {gs all I can say es re-  gards the usual practice,
39. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the delegate of Cuba.
40.1 Mr. FERNANDEZ RETAMAR (Cuba)  (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, I am beset by  two feelings at this moment; on the one hand, a feel-  ing of bewilderment which {mpels me to use my right  of reply and contest the reference made to'my country,  and on the other, a feeling of slight amusement which  all of us have shared on account of the cfrcumstances  preceding this second occasion on which I have mounted  the rostrum. Would that all the serfous problems  examined at such international gatherings could be  approached in the same spiriti 1:
40.2 The reason why I feel myself compelled to  reply is that I was surprised at the specific reference  to my country in the United States delegate's inter-  vention, although our own proposal is of a general  nature, and I have no recollection of having referred  to any country whatsoever in my previous speech,
40,3 The United States delegate stressed, if I  understood him correctly, the pleasure with which  the people of Cuba welcome artistic and cultural  performances by artists from the United States, as  they do those from any other country of the world,  for it ts the polfcy of our Government to stand for the  friendship of all nations, for everything that is posi-  tive, for everything of a creative nature, for every-  thing related to culture. Many of us have benefited
143  MEETINGS 1X  from the culture of the United States and from that  of all the peoples ôf the world, and will continue to  benefit if we can manage to go on living, as Bernard  Shaw put it; and hence we eschew the error of con-  fusing political circumstances, which are always  accidental, with human, intellectual and cultural  circumstances, .
40,4 The United States delegate also said that no  word of cansure should be included in the agenda of  this meeting, and that our proposal implied such  censure,
40.5 I should like to ask, fellow delegates, if we  in Unesco do not censure illiteracy, if we do not  implicitly censure colonialism when we warmly wel-  come the peoples who have recently been freed from  colonialism, and, on the same level, if we are not  obliged to pass censure on intervention by one  country in the affairs of another?
40,6 Censure can be positive: that of illiteracy is  one example, and that of intervention is another,
40.7 I was alao surprised to see the United States  delegate apply the tremendous weight of his country  in the sense of threatening this gathering if it included  in the agenda the item proposed by Cuba,
40,8 Lovers of democracy such as we are, fellow  delegates, believe that it 1s this gathering which  should decide in the last instance, and not the weight  exerted by any nation or group of nations, however  great, whether an item recognized by several dele-  gates as being of vital importance should be included  in the agenda or not.
40.9 What would it profit us to eradicate illiteracy  if the literates are doomed to perish in a war caused  by intervention?
40.10 Fellow delegates, if the proposal to include  this item in the agenda raises legal questions upon  which its acceptance or rejection may hinge, 1 agree  without hesitation that it should first be considered  by the Legal Committee.
41, The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the delegate of Bulgaria,
42. Mr, GANOVSKI (Bulgaria) (Translation from  the Russian):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, the question  which has been raised by the Cuban delegation, and  which constitutes the subject of our discussion and  our vote here, seems to me to be an extremely  interesting and important one, and we should not be  in such a hurry to reach a decision on it, The prob-  lem of non-intervention in the internal affairs of  States does not concern Cuba alone. Again, it is  not merely a political quebtion but also a question  of culture, science, co-operation, independence,  mutual respect between nations, the implementation  of the very principles of Uneaco's Constitution. And  it therefore seems to me, fellow delegates, that we  should be in no hurty for otherwise we shall be greatly  at fault, Nota single argument has been presentedtous  here, whether it be political, legal, séientific or moral.  We are being asked to vote straight away. It seems  to me that the Soviet Union proposal to refer the  question under consideration to the Legal Committee,  where it can be discussed calmly and thoroughly is  the most sensible step that we can take at the present  moment. I urge that this proposal be accepted,   {x PLENARY MEETINGS
43, The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the delegate of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics. 1 would request the delegatesto  be brief as we must finish this business as early as  possible,
44, Mr, LAPIN (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr, President, allow me to quote an extract from  the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference,  It is stated in Rule 32.2 that the Legal Committee  shall consider "any legal question which may be re-  ferred to it by the General Conference. In other  words, the Legal Committee is required to consider  questions of this kind. I therefore request that my  amendment to the General Committee's decision be  voted on first, in accordance with the Rules of  Procedure,
45, The PRESIDENT:
1 call upon the delegate of Rumania,
46,1 Mr. MALINSKI (Rumania) (Translation from  the Russian): ‘  Mr. President and fellow delegates, the sentiments  with which the newly independent countries attending  the Unesco Conference were greeted gave reason to  believe that no question connected with the progress  of science, instruction and education would find any  obstacle placed in the way of its solution at this  Conference. As far as the actual proposal by the  Cuban delegate is concerned, we support it in so far  as it reflects the problems confronting Cuba, Not-  withstanding the fact that this question has already  been discussed in the General Committee, I consider  that the only competent gathering fully possessed of  the prerogative and right to solve this or any other  question is the General Conference, which is entitled,  as the final and highest instance, to examine and make  decisions on this or any other matter,
46,2 The United States delegate recommended that  we reject Cuba's proposal in view of the fact that  some agreement or other exists, according to him,  which already guaranteea non-intervention. I feel  that the question, if put in this way, is being inter-  preted in a very narrow sense, For the question is  not exclusively one of the relations between the  United States and Cuba. It has been raised as a  matter of principle on broad lines and from the stand-  point of the tasks confronting Unesco.
46.3 The Rumanian delegation earnestly requests,  therefore, that this question be examined, in this -  case as in others, by the committee most competent  to do so. As legal issues are involved, it would be  the Legal Committee. There is the additional fact  that we have nothing to lose, but only stand to gain,  if we adopt a decision which has been the subject of  further study. We shall then be able to vote in a full  knowledge of every aspect of the subject under discussion.
47. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the Head of the delegation of Brazil,
48.1 Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  (Translation from the French):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, the Republic  of Cuba is part of the great Latin American family;.
144  it 1s part of the community of American States, It  would be strange if only one Latin American voice  were to be heard in this discussion, and that voices  from outside this community should be the only onea  to touch on a problem which, by affecting one member  of our family, affects us all; and this fact authorizes  us to address this member of our family in that  brotherly, although clear and outspoken, language  which is used so forthrightly in family councils in  the Latin world,
48,2 Would it be in order for us to submit a motion  to the General Conference of Unesco condemning  murder or theft? Are we a court of justice, em-  powered to consider the whole calendar of possible  crimes of humanity so that special proposals can be  passed condemning them? My country does not even  admit the possibility of intervention in the internal  affairs of another country, It simply does not admit  it; and all the charters of the international organiza-  tions to which we belong, including the Organization  of American States and the United Nations, formally  condemn the idea. .
48.3 It seems to me, my dear Cuban colleague,  that it is inappropriate to raise a problem of this  kind within the United Nations Educational, Scientific  and Cultural Organization, Allow me to say, in all  sincerity, that this is rieither the place nor time. We  Latin Americans - all of us - have too much pride  to conceive of the frontiers of one of our countries  being violated without our forming a solid front in  face of danger. But there is no reason to submit to  such a gathering as this in anticipation, a proposal  which is completely outside the scope of our activi-  ties, our interests and the instructions we have re-  celved,
48.4 Had I had occasion to be present at the  General Committee meeting this morning, 1 would  have asked the Cuban delegate to withdraw his pro-  posal. There i8 no reason at all, in our opinion,  why it should feature in the agenda of our Conference,  for none of us could possibly agree, ever, to inter-  vention by any State in the affairs of another, on any  pretext whatsoever,
49.1 The PRESIDENT;
1 think in this matter we must be guided by the  Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Rule 14 of  the Rules of Procedure, new items of an important  and urgent character may be added to the agenda by '  approval of a two-thirds majority of the members *  present and voting. But, in accordance with Rule 36,  such new items shall be referred to the General  Committee of the Conference for its report before  the vote is taken, In accordance with this Rule, the  item under discussion was referred to the General  Committee and the General Committee has given us  a ruling that the item should not be included in this  agenda, Itis now for the Conference to decide whether to  include thisitemornot. À two-thirds majority will be  necessary for approval, I shall nowaskfor a roll-call.
49.2 The Headofthe delegation of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics wishes to speak ona point of order.
50, Mr, LAPIN (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian);  Fellow delegates, we had the honour to propose  an amendment to the General Committee's ruling   PLENARY  I request that we vote on that amendment, This, I  believe, 18 completely in accordance with the Rules  of Procedure: first we should vote on the amendment  to the ruling and then on the ruling itself,
51,1 The PRESIDENT:  According to my understanding of the Rules this is  not a legal question, It is for the Conference to de-  cide whether this item should be included in the agenda  or not, and there 18 no point in referring it to the  Legal Committee. We shall now take the vote on this  item.
51,2 The Head of the delegation of Poland wishes  to raise a point of order,
52, Mr. WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) (Translation  from the Russian);  Mr. President, with all due respect for your  decisions, I fee) that the question you have ruled on  has not been fully dealt with. It is not clear to me  why you gave that ruling. An amendment has been  moved that the question be referred to the Legal  Committee, The question is indisputably a legal  one, According to the Rules of Procedure, the  amendment has to be voted on first, I urge you,  Mr, President, bearing in mind the observations of  the Soviet delegation and myself, to reconsider your  ruling. In my view, the amendment should be voted  on first. In any case, the Conference has the right  to refer any question to any of its committees.  The PRESIDENT:  The Head of the delegation of the Philippines  wishes to apeak on a point of order.
54. Mr. ROMERO (Philippines);  Mr. President and delegates, I rise to a point of  order, the only question before this Conference is to  determine whether we are going to include this item  in the agenda. Thus, any proposal to refer it to the  Legal Committee is out of order because that would  constitute an admission that the item is already on  the agenda, I repeat, Mr. President, I wish to raise  the point of order that the only question for determina-  tion before this Conference is whether this matter is  to be placed on the agenda.
55. The PRESIDENT:  The Byelorussian delegate wishes to speak.
56.1 - Mr. KISELEV (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic) (Translation from the Russian): ;  Mr. President, I am leaving quite aside the sub-  stance of the proposal submitted by the Cuban delega-  tion for consideration by the General Conference.  On this question, of course, all truth and humanity  is on the side of the proposal. Our delegation is ex-  tremely disturbed and indignant about the attempt  made by the United States representative to force its  views on oùr Conference, to dictate to it and constrain  it, to shy away from the solution of vital questions  agitating the whole of mankind. Anything in the nature  of threats or reservations or provocative conduct is  incompatible with the spirit of such a responsible  international gathering as our General Conference.
56,2 ‘Our delegation considers it absolutely neces-  sary to support the views of the Soviet Union and
145  MEETINGS IX  other delegations which regard this as a highly im-  portant queation warranting the closest and most  seiirching study by the Conference. We are entitled  to instruct the Legal Committee to examine all these  aspects in order that a truly corre.t and ratioml  decision can be reached. Our delegation insists that  the vote be taken first of all on the amendment sub-  mitted by the Soviet Unioh.  The PRESIDENT:
1 call upon the Ukrainian delegate.
58, Mr, LITVIN (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic) {Translation from the Russian):  The Ukrainian delegation would like the Legal  Adviser to give his opinion on which should be voted  on first - the amendment or the proposal.
59.1 The PRESIDENT:  I have given very careful consideration to all the  points of view in this matter and I give my ruling that  this is not a matter for the Legal Committee, It is  for this General Conference to decide whether it  wants to include this item or not. If my ruling is  not accepted, the only alternative is to put it to the  vote.
59,2 1 take it then that we put this issue to a vote,
59.3 The delegate of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic wishes to speak,
60. Mr. LITVIN (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic) (Translation from the Russian):  Forgive me, Mr. President, but I made a quite  distinct request that the Legal Adviser should clear  up the point of whether the amendment or the pro-  posal should be voted on first.
61. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the Legal Adviser.
62. Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) (Translation from  the French):  Mr. President, according to Rule 86 of the Rules  of Procedure of the General Conference, when an  amendment is moved to a proposal, the amendment  is voted on first. However, I think that in order to  avoid any misunderstanding, it should be made clear  what the amendment is, Since the substantive pro-  posal is to include the item in the agenda, the  amendment, in my opinion, is to add to that substan-  tive proposal the specification that the item would  then be referred to the Legal Committee. In any  case, the scope of the amendment must be exactly  stated.
63.1 The PRESIDENT:  Is anyone prepared to make a formal motion for  the amendment?
63.2 The delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, I take it, moves the amendment formally,  Will he kindly explain to us what the amendment is?
64. Mr. LAPIN (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr. President, 1 have already formally moved  the amendment three times. We have the General  Committee's ruling concerning the Cuban proposal.   IX  The General Committee ruled by 9 votes to 3, with 3  abstentions, that the Cuban proposal should not be  included in the agenda, We are now asked to vote on  this ruling. ! am a member of the General Committee  and a member of the Conference, and with the support  of others here I am moving an amendment to the  General Committee's ruling so as to provide that the  Cuban proposal be not placed on the agenda but re-  ferred to the Legal Committee for consideration.  That {a the sense of my motion.
65,1 The PRESIDENT:  Before the amendment is put to the vote someone  must formally second it,
65.2 I call upon the Ukrainian delegate,
66. Mr, LITVIN (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic}(Translation from the Russian):  Mr. President, the Ukrainian delegation seconda  the Soviet Union amendment.
67. The PRESIDENT;  I call upon the Head of the delegation of Canada.
68. Mr, CADIEUX (Canada);  Mr. President and fellow delegates, I will inter-  vene very briefly to make three points. One is that  I am completely and utterly confused as to just where  we stand at this point. The other point that I wish to  make is that we have a report, as Il understand it,  from the General Con.mittee, which states that a  certain item is not to be inscribed, How can that be  amended? A proposal that something that should not  be inscribed should be referred to the Legal Com-  mittee? That I do not understand. And my third  point is a request that before a vote is taken we  might be given a clear explanation as to what we will  be supporting by voting yes or rejecting by voting no.
69. The PRESIDENT:
1 would ask the Legal Adviser to explain the  situation again.
70.1 Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) (Translation from  the French); ;  Mr. President, the situation is indeed confused.  The question was raised’ a moment ago of the order  of priority in voting when an amendment has been  moved. ! then asked for exact details of the amend-  ment, It now appears, however, from the explanation  given by the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, that what he is really submitting to the  General Conference is a procedural motion to ad-  journ the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the  item proposed by the delegation of Cuba until such  time as the Legal Committee has decided on a legal  question placed before it by the General Conference -  it being understood that the Legal Committee would  report to the Conference itself on its reply or on the  opinion it might give. The question, therefore, is to  know what 1s the legal question which would be sub-  mitted to the Legal Committee.
70,2 1 must point out, Mr. President, that ac-  cording to the practice of intergovernmental and -  international meetings - more particularly that of  the United Nations - when an organ refers'a question  to another organ for its opinion - more particularly, ’  PLENARY
146  MEETINGS  when the United Nations General Assembly refers a  problem to the Sixth Committee, which is tho legal  committee, for its opinion - that question is set out  in a letter which the chairman of the organ seeking  advice sends to the chairman of the organ giving  advice,
70,3 It ia therefore necessary to put the question  in such a way as to enable the Legal Committee to  know exactly what it is being consulted about and the  type of reply requested.  The PRESIDENT;  I call upon the delegate of Japan,
72, Mr, MATSUI (Japan) {Translation from the  French}:  Mr. President, I confess that Iam rather non-  plussed about what 1 am supposed to do, On what  must we vote? ! have the impression that the mem-  bers of the other delegations are in much the same  boat as myself. If I understand aright, the Soviet  Union delegate has submitted a motion of adjourn-  ment, If this interpretation is correct, perhaps we  could vote on that motion, If not, I think we could  vote immediately on the item submitted to us.  The PRESIDENT:  I would request the delegate of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics to explain in very precise terms  the juridical question which is to be referred to the  Legal Committee.
74. Mr. LAPIN (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, you wish to  place me in the rôle of a lawyer, but 1 am no lawyer.  We are prepared, if you like, to set out the legal  basis of our proposal in writing for the next meeting.  If you give us your permission to do so, we will,  But if it is a question of procedure that we are dis-  cussing, I shall repeat once more my proposal con-  cerning the General Committee's ruling: we should  not decide at present on the question of accepting  the Cuban proposal, and, inasmuch as it is of a  legal nature, we should refer it to the Legal Com-  mittee for study. Not only I, but many others who  have spoken, including our Legal Adviser, have  confirmed the correctness of this procedure. You  may vote against the proposal, or in favour of it,  but the amendment remains an amendment. Let us  refer the question to the Legal Committee so that it  can decide on the legal soundness of the proposal  submitted to us.
75. The PRESIDENT:
1 call upon the Head of the delegation of the  United States of America.
76. Mr, THAYER (United States of America): |  Mr. President, 1 am afraid I am going to differ  somewhat from nome of the other speakers by say--  ing that the situation seems completely clear to me  and I will try, if I may, Mr. President, to explain  why I think it is clear, The General Committee has  sent back to the Conference its recommendation that  an item not be placed upon the agenda, The delegate  from the Soviet Union has tried to amend this item,   PLENARY MEETINGS  but such an item is not amendable. Therefore his  efforts must be interpreted in some other light, These  efforts can be interpreted as an effort to say that the  Conference shall adjourn and postpone the question  until the Legal Committee has decided upon the legal  question, But there {s no légal question, Therefore  the Chatr had already ruled that the Soviet Urifon's  suggestion is out of order and unless the Chair's  ruling is challenged by anyone in this body, the  Chair's ruling must prevail, Now if anyone wants to  challenge the ruling of the Chair, my understanding  is that it is perfectly proper to do so, and then the  Conference votes upon that challenge. But no one  has challenged the ruling of the Chair and the delegate  from the United States {8s certainly not going to do so.  The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the Head of the delegation of Poland,
78.1 . Mr. WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) (Translation  from the Russian): =  Mr. President, I am not going to avail myself of  the kind offer of the Head of the United States delega-  tion by challenging the President's ruling. 1 am quite  sure that so far there has been no final ruling by the  President, and that the subject of discussion at the  moment ia the amendment moved by the Soviet Union  representative, I wish to'stiress once more that I  am in no way challenging the President's ruling - and  there has been none so far. That is the first point.  Secondly, I should like to state that I know of no case  where delegates were prevented from moving any  amendment they wished to a ruling of the General  Committee or of the General Conference itself.  Always, at all conferences, including the United  Nations General Assembly, General Committee  rulings are subject to discussion and open to any  amendment, To my mind, the legal aspect of the  question is perfectly clear. Every delegation has  the right to move an amendment to a General Com-  mittee ruling. We deeply respect the General Com-  mittee's ruling in this case, and we have all taken it  into consideration, but this "does not mean that we  cannot most respectfully move an amendment to it.
78.2 The amendment says that we should refer to  the Legal Committee, not a resolution submitted by  Cuba - for it is not a resolution - but a proposal for  including an item in the agenda, so that the Legal  Committee can go into all aspects of the matter.
78.3 I should like to remind you of the words of  the esteemed Head of the United States delegation.  He was referring to agreements between American  States and to provisions laid down by inter-American  Conferences, Iam not familiar with these interna-  tional instruments, but I should say that the relation-  ship of definite agreements between American States  to the present matter represents in fact a legal aspect  of the question. That is not my argument, but that  of the United States representative. I am only sup-  porting him, although I do not know the exact signifi-  cance and bearing of those agreements in relation to  our Constitution.
78.4 Let the competent jurists decide whether  there are any legal impediments here or not. Iam’  speaking only of the single aspect which has been  raised by the United States delegation, But there are  others, If anyone were to say that the question of
147  Ix  intervention in the internal affairs of States {a not a  legal one, it would be very strange indeed, It there-  fore seems to me to be perfectly clear that this is a  question for the Legal Committee to solve, It is not  concrete questions that have to be put to the Legal  Committee, but rather the general one; what are  the legal aspects of the Cuban proposal for the inclu-  slon of a new item on the agenda? The’ amendment  is a thoroughly sound one based on common sense,  for the question of Intervention or non-intervention  in the internal affairs of any country arises in fact,
78.6 I cannot understand why there are any objec-  tiona, Now that the United States representative hae  advanced legal arguments touching on agreements  between various States, it means that the legal  experts would need to examine that question also.  I consider, therefore, that the General Conference  and our President - who, 1 regret to say is not  listening to me - will give proof of objectivity if  they rule on this question as they ought to: by  putting the amendment to the vote,
79. The PRESIDENT:
1 call upon Sir Ben Bowen Thomas, Chairman of  the Executive Board.
80,1 Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom),  Chairman of the Executive Board;  Mr. President and fellow delegates, I would hesi-  tate to impose myself upon the General Conference,  and to {nterfere in a discussion that has caused a  good deal of amusement and given alot of fun to  some delegations, judging from the amount of hilarity  that has prevailed at different times.
80.2 But I would suggest, Mr. President that if we  return to the original position, it is as follows: there  is a recommendation before the Genèral Conference  that this matter be not inscribed on the agenda of the  General Conference. That is the position from which  we start. ;
80.3 It was then suggested that it was possible to  refer this matter to the Legal Committee, and here  I would remind mémbers of the Conference that you  yourself, Mr. President, quoted - indeed other  people also quoted - Rulé 32, Section 2, On that  occasion you ruled, 1 emphasize this, that this was  not a legal question, 1 would invite members of the  General Conference to take up the documents
11 C/39 and 11 C/39 Add, and, in all conscience  after having read them, to ask themselves the ques-  tion whether this does raise a legal question, 1  must say that I find myself completely in support of  the President, that the words in these two documents,  it they have meaning - and I am assuming that in  this particular matter I am reasonable and that words  do have a meaning for me - do not raise a legal  question. Therefore I would say that the President  was perfectly right when he ruled that no Jegal  question was raised, and therefore there was no  occasion to refer this matter to a legal committee,
80.4 Now, ladies and gentlemen, a procedural  question then arises. You may challenge the Presi-  dent's ruling, and I would suggest to the President  that he might accept that challenge, It can be decided  by a simple majority vote, so that if any persons  here disagree with the President's ruling, they are  then able to show that they do so, Once we show   IX PLENARY  whether we agree or not with the Pregident's ruling  that this does not raise legal questions and therefore  cannot be referred to the Committee, the main recom-  mendation of the General Committee to this Conference  may then be taken, I therefore suggest Mr, President,  in order to help us in our orderly proceedings, which,  while they have created amusement, have not alto-  gether elevated our prestige, that you invite the  Conference to express its view as to whether or not  it accepts your ruling that this is not a legal question,
81,1 The PRESIDENT:  I have been trying to understand ‘whether any legal  question was involved, If we refer the matter to the  Legal Committee we must pose a definite legal ques-  tion, a juridical question, As far as I have been able  to understand, nobody has been able to explain why  this matter should be referred to the Legal Committee,  why it is a juridical question, Now in view of this, 1  am afraid I have to stick to my ruling that this is not  a case for reference to the Legal Committee, and if  my ruling is challenged then that will have to be put  to the vote.
81.2 I call upon the delegate of Morocco,
82, Mr. EL FASI (Morocco) (Translation from the  French):  Mr. President, I believe that, to finish with this  long discussion on questions of procedure, the solu-  tion has been presented very clearly and very definitely  by the Chairman of the Executive Board. In the first  place, Mr. President, the General Conference must  be asked whether your interpretation of the question  raised is acceptable or not. If it is acceptable, we  can proceed to vote. If not, then it is absolutely  necessary to vote on the amendment submitted by the  delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.  I think that at this juncture we should first express  ourselves on Sir Ben Bowen Thomas's suggestion,
83.1 The PRESIDENT:  I think we must close the discussion now and I  would like to know whether you are in favour of my  ruling. I shall now put my ruling to the vote.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands),  MEETINGS
83,2 The result of the voto 1a 52 in favour, 11  against, with 13 abstentions. My ruling is then  accepted,
83.3 We shall now proceed to vote on the recom-  mendation of the General Committee that the new  {tem proposed by the delegation of Cuba should not  be included in the agenda,
84, (The vote was taken by roll-call;  Voted in favour; Argentina, Australia, Austria,  Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Costa Rica,  Denmark, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Finland, France,  Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Iran, Italy,  Japan, Liberia, Monaco, New Zealand, Netherlands,  Nicaragua, Norway, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines,  Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey,  United Kingdom, United States of America, Viet-Nam.  Voted against; Albania, Bulgaria, Byelorussian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Cuba, Czechoslovakia,  Guinea, Hungary, Lebanon, Poland, Rumania,  Senegal, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union  of Soviet Socialist Republica.  Abstained: Afghanistan, Central African Republic,  Ceylon, Congo (capital; Brazzaville), El Salvador,  Guatemala, India, Ivory Coast, Libya, Madagascar,  Federation of Malaya, Mexico, Morocco, Nigeria,  Somalia, Sudan, Togo, Tunisia, United Arab  Republic, Uruguay, Yugoslavia,  Absent: Bolivia, Burma, Cambodia, Cameroun,  Colombia, Dahomey, Dominican Republic, Gabon,  Ghana, Haiti, Honduras, Indonesia, Iraq, Israel,  Jordan, Korea, Kuwait, Laos, Luxembourg, Mali,  Nepal, Niger, Panama, Saudi Arabia, Upper Volta,  Venezuela).
85,1 The PRESIDENT:  The result of the vote is as follows: 36 in favour;
13 against; 21 abstentions; 26 absent, The recom-  mendation of the General Committee is thus carried  by a two-thirds majority, therefore the new item  proposed by the delegation of Cuba is not to be in-  cluded in the agenda, ’
85.2 The meeting is closed.  The meeting rose at 7.15 p.m,  ~ 148