7 December 1960 at 3,40 p.m,  President; Professor Paulo E, de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  CONTENTS  Discussion on International Relations and Exchanges in  Education, Science and Culture (continued) ,... ...  DISCUSSION ON INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND EXCHANGES  IN EDUCATION, SCIENCE AND CULTURE (centinved)
1. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I ~all upon H.E. Mr. Kulazhenkov, delegate of the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republica.
2.1 Mr. KULAZHENKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr. President, ladizs and gentlemen, the delega-  tion of the Soviet Union is glad that the question of the  development of relations and exchanges between States  and peoples in the field of education, science and cul-  ture has been placed on the agenda of this session of  the General Conference of Unesco,
2,2 Our delegation pays due tribute to the initiative  taken by the Director-General, Mr, Veronese, in  having it included. Its importance lies in the fact  that it is inextricably linked with the tasks of consoli-  dating peace and security and with the development of  mutual understanding and international friendship.
2.3 The Government of the Soviet Union, true to its  policy of international peace and friendship, is  systematically and steadily developing extensive cul-  tural relations with all other States. This policy  flows from the nature of the socialist structure of our  country and from the tasks of cultural construction in  the USSR, their main object being to familiarize  workers with the cultural achievements of their own  country and other countries throughout the world.
2.4 Inthe USSR, the entire way of living and the  entirc structure of social and public life are harnessed  tothe taskof inculcating in the people the lofty ideas of  peace and friendshipbetween nations, fraternal solidarity  and internationalism, humanism and high ethical standards.
2.5 National inequalities and racial prejudice have  been eliminated in the Soviet Union for good and all,  and any sort of manifestution of discrimination is  forbidden by law and has long since vanished. In our  country the ideology of friendship between nations pre-  vails, and we are proud of this great moral conquest.
2.6 One special feature of the development of Soviet  culture, science and education is that the Soviet people  has been given full acceas to all the benefits of culture  ‘and science; the schools, higher educational establish-  ments, theatres, clubs and other cultural institutions  are open to all,
2.7 The Soviet Union has been maintaining and  developing its cultural links with other peoples and  States: in recent years, it has concluded more than
30 long-term cultural agreements with other States  as well as more than 100 agreements covering  individual aspects of cultural collaboration and pro-  viding for the development of cultural, ccientific and  other relations on a basis of equality and mutual  respect. .
2.8 Large numbers of Soviet citizens visit other  countries and get to know their cultural and scientific  achievements, while many foreigners, especially  tourists, visit our country and get to know our  scientific and cultural achievements in turn.
2.9 The exchange of persons also takes place, of  course, under the auspices of Unesco, particularly  in the form of the organizetion of tours of various  countries by groups of workers. This is a praise-  worthy activity of which we approve, We are in  favour of the system of exchanges under Unesco's  auspices being extended. Our only wish is that the  organization of these tours could proceed more  rapidly and without artificial difficulties being  created, including those of a technical nature.  Unfortunately these do occur.
2,10 Soviet representatives are actively partici-  pating in international conferences, congresses and  symposia on questions of education, science and  culture, and there has been an increase in the ex-  change of scientific, cultural and other information  with a view to bringing the ‘nations closer together  and developing friendship between them in the inter-  ests of peace and co-operation,
2,11 The Soviet people regards international cul-  tural co-operation as an equal and mutually advan-  tageous exchange of national cultural achievements in  both the material and intellectual sense, anexchange  which simultaneously promotes the development of  national cultures and helps to enrich world culture. The  Soviet people is happy to make its cultural achievements |  common property and at the same time to take stock of  the cultural riches of other peoples.  The works of foreign authors, both in transla-  tion and in the original, are widely reprenented in  our libraries. Plays by foreign dramatists are  never off the Soviet stage, and our cinemas show all  the best foreign films.   PLENARY
2.13 During the period f the Soviet régime, more  than 20, 000 works by foreign authors to & total of  over 150 million copies, have been published in the  T6 languages spoken by the péoples of the USSR.  According to Unesco figures, the Soviet Union has  for many years led the world in the publication of  translated works,
2,14 We consider that direct contacts between  National Commissi;ns for Unesco could play a sub-  stantial part in promoting exchanges and relations,  The exchange of experience and achievements in  education, science and culture would thereby find  still wider ‘application, Unfortunately, such contacts  between National Commissions are still too few,
2,15 We take this opportunity to inform the dele-  gates to the Conference that the Soviet Government  in accordance with the International Convention on  Exhibitions and the decision ôf the International  Exhibition Bureau, is holding a World Exhibition in  Moscow in 1967: The title of the exhibition will be  "Progress and Peace', and all countries and inter-  national organizations, including Unesco, will be in-  vited to take part in it, °
2,16 We are in favour gentlemen, of a broad ex-  change of information and publications. Buf when we  speak of the free exchange of information and publica-  tions, we are thinking primarily of the ideas of peace  and peaceful co-operation, of the development of  better mutual understanding between nations.
2.17 There are certain circles which would like to  use the channels of cultural relations for the purpose  of foisting upon the Soviet people ideas which are  alien to them - militarism, racialism and ‘the spirit  of revenge - and of disseminating trashy literature  and all kinds of pornographic gutter publications,  degenerate gangster films, and so on, There is no  market in our country for corrupt ideological produc-  tions of this sort, however, Our doors - we say  straight out - are closed to trashy gutter publications  and to films and broadcasts which feed base instincts  and propagate misanthropy and enmity between  nations.
2.18 We consider, too, that Unesco should speak  up against the use of International cultural, scientific  and other relations as ‘channels for transmitting  propaganda along militaristic, racial and revanchist  lines and amoral ideas of all kinds, Again, we think  that this point should be taken into account in formu-  lating the principles of cultural co-operation, and  that Unesco should condemn the use of the channels  for international relations and exchanges in this way.
2,19 Mr. President and fellow delegates, the  collapse of the colonial system, which is taking place  before our eyes, and the emergence of new independent  Asian and African States mark a new stage in the  history of world culture and the development of inter-  national cultural relations.
2.20 The attainment of political independence by  these countries provides favourable conditions for  the revival, growth and blossoming of the original  national cultures of the peoples of these countries.
2.21 Colonialism has done tremendous damage to  the national cultures of the ensldved peoples. The  colonizers tried tô tread down these cultures and  trample thém under foot and they succeeded in inter-  rupting the traditional cultural relations of the African  and Asian peoples for several centuries. Yet Africa
359  MEETINGS Xx  and Asia were once the cradle of great civilizations  exerting a powerful influence on the development of  all mankind,
2,22 And now, when the paths of national rebirth  have opeped before the peoples which have achieved  their independence, the colonizers are trying to be-  little their rich historical past and eveñ to deny the  oviginality of théir nations) cultures and their con-  tributibn to world culture, Attempts are béing made  to foist upon these people the modern, degenerate,  bourgeois culture of the West,
2,23 We should like to remind delegates of the  statement made from this rostrum by the representa-  tive of Haiti during the first few days of this Confer-  ence when he protested vigoroiisly against pernicious  and alien influences exerted on the culture of peoples  who had thrown off the yoke of colonialism or were  in the process of doing so, and when he stresséd the  prime necessity of preserving and cherishing the  national spirit of the culture and art of each people.
2,24 A nation's culture can be fevived and reborn  only on its own soil, and nowhere else, The Soviet  Union's wide experience of cultural construction  confirms this truth, With the establishment of the  Soviet régime over the vast expansés of the former  Tsarist empire, a real national revival of peoples  began, and within a short space of time, backward  border regions became flourishing States with a  high level of educational, scientific and cultural  development. In their level of economic and cultural  development, -to say nothing of social structure, the  Soviet national republics have far outstripped that  attained by many of the highly developed Western  European States. This unprecedented leap from  backwardness to advanced development ia clearly  demonstrable in any Soviet State,
2.25 Let us take Soviet Uzbekistan as an ‘example.  Before the revolution of October 1917, only 2% of  the population of Uzbekistan could read and write.  Today, there are no iliterates in the Republic.  Forty years ago, there was not one higher educétional  establishment; today there are more than 30 and the  number of students attending them and the technicians  exceeds 140,000. The first university was founded  in the capital of the Republic as early as 1920. At  the same timé, 400 university professors and teach-  ers were sent to it trom Moscow and Leningrad in  order to train the nation's specialized workers and  fulfilled their honourable mission with outstanding  success. The same is true of the other Trans-  caucasian republics and the republics of Central  Asia, The University of Tashkent, which was  founded on the same principles, has become a real  centre for science and culture producing the nation's  own highly skilled workers. Similar successes have  been scored in the rest of the national republics of  the Soviet Union, And today Uzbekistan, Turkmenia,  Tajikistan, Kazakhstan and all the national republics  have their own scientists, their own academies of  sciences, their own scientific research institutes  and their own national intelligentsia,
2.26 The Soviet Union delegation to thie Con-  ference includes among its members the Deputy  President of the Council of Ministers of the Uzbek  Soviet ‘Socialist Républic, Mr. Azimov, and the  Minister of Education of the Azerbaijan Soviet  Socialist Republic, Mr. Mekhti.Zade, who could   XXII  tell us a great deal about what has been achieved  in their republics,
2,27 I shall give one more ‘example which may be  of octal interest to certain delegations. More than
40 of the peoples living in Tsarist Russia had no  national written language, After the establishment of  the Soviet régime, not only were these peoples pro-  vided with a written language but their national cul-  ture developed apace,
2,28 We consider that this great experience of the  development of the Soviet national republics should  be popularized among all peoples. And we believe  that in formulating the principles of cultural co-  operation the question of the development of national  culture is one of the main points to be kept in mind,
2.29 Mr, President, we think that the report which  has been submitted to us on a survey of international  relations and exchanges in education, science and  culiure contains a number of positive suggestions  concerning the development of international cultural  exchanges. It is our opinion that Unesco should define  the principles of international cultural co-operation,  and that it should do so without delay. It is essential,  in this document, to define the aime of co-operation,  and the document should reflect, above all, the thesis  that international co-operation in education, science  and culture is a most important factor for peace and  for the peaceful coexistence of States with different  social systems.
2,30 The guiding line, in working out the principles  of this co-operation, should be participation in inter-  national cultural exchanges by all peoples and all  countries of the world on an equal footing. This  equitable principle, as we have already pointed out,  is being violated by Unesco: we refer to Unesco's  policy in respect of the People's Republic of China  and to its policy of refusing to co-operate with the  German Democratic Republic and a number of other  socialist countries, This injustice must cease.  Unesco should be a real world forum for the national  cultures of all peoples,
2.31 The promotion of close and active co-operation  between the national cultures of all nations without  exception is the glorious and hopeful path which our  Organization should follow in its future activities.
3. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H.E, Mr, Awad, delegate of the United  Arab Republic.
4.1 Mr. AWAD (United Arab Republic):  Mr, President, fellow delegates, I need hardly  say that this is my own humble contribution and in no  way commits my country or my Government. My  subject is a general one, it consists of an exposition  of translation as a factor in international cultural  exchange.
4.2 The word "translation" is quite common to all  languages with which we are familiar, In English we  have several expressions to convey the same meaning:  translate, render, interpret. The practiée must be  an old one, because the words are of long standing.  Shakespeare, in one of his comedies uses the word  translate in the sense of transtorm, referring to one  of his characters assuming the form of an ass.  Shakespeare may or may not have been thinking of bad  translations as being som.thing similar to such a  PLENARY
360  MEETINGS  transformation, Macaulay at any rate, .in one of his  essays comments on a certain translation of the Iliad  and referring to the incident in Shakespeare's comedy  declares; "Homer though art translated indeed",  Many cynical critics think that a great many transla-  tions ure of this ass-tranaformation type.
4,3 In English we have also the word "dragoman",  an Arabic word, referring to the person who acts as  interpreter, usually an "oral" translator.” The word  is as old as the Arabic language itself, and we find  it used in writing as early as the Seventh century.  But the practice of translating dates back to very  much earlier periods in human development. In this,  as in many other aspects of human culture, we have  to go back to the, history of ancient Egypt, not because  Egypt was the first country to practise translation  but because gome records of the past have been well  preserved in that country. These records going  back to the Fifteenth century B,C. are the famous  Tell-El'Amarna Letters (Tell-El'Amarna, the town  of middle Egypt) and the finds are referred to in all  books about Egyptian history as thé Tell-El'Amarna  Letters, They consist of clay tablets covered with  inscriptions in the Akkadian language, which in those  ancient times was a kind of lingua franca throughout  the civilized world, The text consists of corres-  pondence received in Egypt from abroad embodying  messages and reports from agents in foreign countries,  and official epistles received from some prince or  high official. Among the tablets were found pleces  of broken clay bearing words in Akkadian and their  equivalent in Egyptian. This is probably one of the  earliest attempts at glossary making of which we  have any knowledge.
4,4 The existence of the Tell-El'Amarna Letters  is a sure indication of the existence of persons in  the Egyptian court whose task it was to give some  rendering of the texts received from abroad. They  would also have acted as interpreters for foreign  visitors and distinguished guests, and undoubtedly  they occupled posts of very considerable distinction.
4.5 ‘Thus, in those early days, translation was  mostly oral and what writing there was consisted of  official or semi-official documents. The text of a  treaty has been discovered dating from the Twelfth  century B,C., concluded between the Hittites and  the Egyptians and written in the two languages, the  one text being almost an accurate translation of the  other. But this is merely another instance of official  translation; we do not know of any translation of a  "cultural" character, although our ignorance cannot  be taken as conclusive evidence.
4.6 When Hellenic influences began to affect Egypt  and Alexandria became a centre of Greek culture  there must have been a considerable amount of  translation. At any rate, we owe to this period the  famous Rosetta Stone on which the same text was  inscribed in three languages: ancient Egyptian  hieroglyphica, Demotic script and Greek. Thistablet  was the key to the reading and deciphering of the  Egyptian language. At this period, also, Alexandria  possessed the finest library inthe world and it is difficult  toimagine that, giventhe number of books and studies  that were produced at that time, there was not alsoa  considerable amount of translation of a cultural character.  That we have one instance which dates backto the Second  ‘century B.C. is indeed rather significant,   PLENARY MEETINGS XXII
4.7 To quote Mr, Edmond Cary's book, La Traduction  dans le Monde Moderne: ' Somewhat by accident we  learn that, in the year 146 B,C,, the Senate of Rome  ordered that the great work on agriculture by Magon,  the Carthaginian, should be translated into Latin".  If that happened with regard to a Punic book, we can-  not help concluding that a great deal of translation  from other languages must have occurred during the  early years of the Roman Empire.
4,8 We do know some instances of translations in  those early times in Rome from Greek to Latin, In
240 B.C, a Greek slave, Livius Andronicus, put the  Odyssey into Latin verse. Probably his effort was  not the first of its kind, but it is particularly inter-  esting because of its survival, The great poet Horace  knew and used it, and some fragments of it still exist.  Later other Latin authors translated Greek plays and  Cicero himself was a frequent translator, as was  Catullus. It is on the whole assumed by all writers  than many translations from Greek to Latin were  undertaken; but there is still very great need of a  fuller account of translation during Roman times.
4.9 Roman history is also notable as the period in  which both Judaism and Christianity developed and  began to spread. Translation of the Bible - first of  the Old Testament and then of the New Testament  also - soon proved to be one of the most important  factors in the promotion of translation. The earliest  translation of this kind was one of the Old Testament  from Hebrew into Greek as early as the Third century  B.C. Inthe Fourth century À .D., Saint Jerome  translated the whole Bible into Latin and, with the  spread of the Gospel other translations followed. At  the time when printing was invented there already  existed 33 translations of the Bible in different  languages. Today of course, with the expansion of  modern missionary activity, the languages into which  the Bible, in whole or in part, has been translated  number nearly a thousand.
4.10 The languages into which the Bible was trans-  lated, even in the earliest times, were so different  that the rendering from one to the other presented a  set of problems such as are characteristic of the  problems of translations even in the present age. I  may also venture to add that the translation of books  considered as sacred must have emphasized the im-  portance of accurate rendering, and must have helped  to encourage the careful translation of other works.
4,11 The spread of Christianity to Egypt, to Syria,  and to Mesopotamia, brought to the Arab lands addi-  tional knowledge of the Greek language and of the works  of Greek philosophers and writers. Syria and Egypt  had for a long time been part of the Byzantine Empire,  and there were several centres of Greek learning in  these countries. In Mesopotamia, Assyrians and  Nestorians carried out some translation from the  Greek including texts ôn other than religlous subjects.
4.12 The Koran as such did not exercise much in-  fluence on the promotion of translation, Converted  Muslims soon acquired a good knowledge of Arabic,  and the translation of the Koran was hardly ever  encouraged. Few books are considered to lose as  much through translation as the Koran.
4.13 But the spread of Islamic andArablie influences,  soon brought the Muslims into close contact with the  civilizations of India, Persia and Greece. Many indi-  viduals, natives of the new lands became citizens of
361  the Muslim Empire, which soon comprised lands  extending from Central Asia to North Africa and the  Iberian Peninsula, ‘ 10
4.14 Very early in their history, Arab rulers be-  came deeply interested in the translation of scientific  and philosophical works into Arabic from the Indian  and Persian languages, and more particularly from  the Greek. This migvement began towards the close  of the Seventh century, even less than 100 years  after the death of Mohammed, and was first directed  towards such utilitarian subjects as medicine, astro-  nomy and chemistry, Soon, however, it was directed  towards philôsophy and science In general, and the  great works of Aristotle, Plato, Galen, Hippocrates,  Pythagoras, Ptolemy and others were translated and  became available in the Arabic language. Such work  was no longer the concern of rulers, but of men of  learning everywhere; and from being the work of a  few individuals, translation became a great movement  sustained by the efforts of Arabs and non-Arabs, of  Muslims, Nestorians, Jews, Assyrians and Copts,  Special mention must be made of the efforts of Al-  Ma'mun {Eighth century), both King and scholar, who  actually asked the Greek Emperor to allow a special  mission to proceed to Constantinople, in order to  choose and bring back copies of important Greek  works,
4.15 The permisaion was granted, the mission  returned with a large harvest and soon translation  from Greek into Arabic began to have repercussions  in the Iberian Peninsula and a similar movement  grew up in Western Europe. In Spain and Southern  Italy centres of learning were established, attended  by scholars from many lands. Arabic became a  medium of learning and the Arabic versions of  Greek masterpieces of science and philosophy were  translated from Arabie into Latin, Soon original  Arabic works uf well-known philosophers were also  translated into Latin. Indeed, some Arabic texts  have been lost in the original and have survived only  in the translation. These cultural contacts, in which  translation played an fmportant part, continued  throughout the Ninth to the Fifteenth centuries and  their influence on the revival of learning is generally  admitted, From then onwards the practice of transla-  tion kept growing and its effect on scholarship was  quite evident, Translation was practised both for the  acquisition of knowledge and also for the enjoyment  of all aspects of culture - poetry, literature, books  on travel and so on. For some time translation was  mostly into Latin but was probably never at any time  exclusively so. Soon, however, all the languages of  Europe were involyed in this great cultural activity  which became a great motive force in cultural con-  tacts and cultural exchange. This phenomenon re-  ceived a strong impetus from the invention of printing  and the subsequent increasing demand for books,  whether in the original or in translation.
4,16 This is a brief and undoubtedly very defective  survey of the historical development of translation.  There is great need for a full study of the history of  translation, a task which apparently has not yet been  . attempted, or even contemplated, With the existence  of Unesco sponsorship, perhaps there is still hope  that such a work might be undertaken,
4.17 ‘Translation has now become a world-wide  activity of enormous dimensions, an activity which   XXII PLENARY MEETINGS  embraces a large variety of fields. It is needless  here to refer to such everyday aspects of it as journal-  ism, commercial, official and similar translations.  The important aspect which concerns international  cultural exchange is the translation of products of the  human spirit, particularly literature, ‘The person  who engages in the translation of literary products  must himself be a creative literary writer, He must  possess the faculty to feel the beauty of the work he  wishes to translate, and the ability to recreate the  same effect in his own language. If he has to trans-  late poetry he must himself be a poet, or at least,  must have the ability to produce in beautiful prose  the same, or very nearly the same, effect produced  by the original verse, There has been a great deal  of discussion as to how poetry should be translated  and there has been a considerable difference of  opinion, Perhaps it is difficult to lay down a definite  unalterable rule. Whenever verse has a special value  in itself, which transcends every other consideration,  as in the case of Fitzgerald's translation of Omar  Khayyam, then verse must be employed, even at  the expense of accurate réndering. But where the  meaning is of a special importance, verse must be  translated by prose. 1 have found it necessary while  translating Hamlet into Arabic to employ three kinds  of composition: prose for the prose passages; a  special prose for blank verse, which was printed in  geparate lines in imitation of the original; lastly,  verse for songs such as those of Ophelia and the  grave-digger.
4,18 Of course some languages are sufficiently  similar to make the rendering of verse by verse  relatively easy, Carlyle's translation of Goethe's  lines is a good example of this:  "Wer nie sein Brot mit Tränen ass,  Wer nie die kummervolle Nachte  Auf seinem weinend Bette sass,  Der kennt Euch night, Ihr himmlischen Machte!"  Carlyle's translation is as follows:  "Who never ate his bread in sorrow,  And never spent the midnight hours  Weeping and waiting for the morrow,  He knows ye not, ye heavenly powers  If you take the fourth line which, as in the quatrains  of Omar Khayyam, is always the most important line,  you find that Carlyle simply replaced the German  word with an English word: Der kennt - he knows;  Euch - ye; nicht - not; Ihr - ye; himmlischen -  heavenly; powers - Mächte. So that the translation  is absolutely word for word. Was he not fortunate to  be able to write such lines as that in direct transla-  tion from the German?
4,19 You will find many instances of this in the  translation by Tieck and Schlegel of the plays of  Shakespeare. Just one example, from Henry IV,  Part 2, "Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown".  (I suppose if one always wears a crown one does not  really sleep very easily, one must take it offi But in  any case, Shakespeare meant this in the metaphorical  sense.) Schlegel's version:  "Unruhig liegt der Kopf der trägt eine Kron",  Again, word for word, aseasyas that! No wonder that  with such natural facilities Tieck and Schlegel were able
1"  - to produce a wonderful translation in verse of Shakespeare,
4,20 With other languages the problem is vastly  more difficult. In Arabic the metre is entirely  different from that of European languages, and con-  siderable latitude must be allowed if verse must be  rendered in verse. ;
4,21 There can be no doubt that the standard of  translation has immensely improved of late years;  and great writers find it now quite agreeable to under-  take literary translations. Baudelaire translated  Edgar Allen Poe and André Gide took great pains  over his translation of Blake, Conrad and Shakespeare.  André Gide thought that great writers ought to under-  take a certain amount of translation. He once re-  flected that had he been Napoleon he would have  imposed on each writer worthy of the honour the task  of enriching his own literature with the translation  of some foreign work, Thus, the great Frenchman  gives eloquent expression to the fact that translation  is a great art, worthy of the attention of great writers  and his words are also indicative of the vast improve-  ment in modern times of the quality of translation  and of translators.
4.22 Unesco, for its part, is doing a great deal  and will certainly do more, to bring the creations of  great minds throughout the ages and throughout the  world to the knowledge of all peoples. The transla-  tion programme of Unesco is steadily growing and  the quality of its products is, with few perhaps  inevitable exceptiona, especially high. One other  part of the programme which should receive special  attention, is, I believe, the encouragement of the  acquisition of a good knowledge of Oriental languages  through provision of adequate fellowships and  scholarships, It is important that we add to the  number of suitable men and women writers who  could devote part ot most of their activity to the  translation of Oriental classics and outstanding  modern works into some well-known world language. À  recommendation to this effect was made at the  Congress of PEN ciubs, held at Tokyo in 1957, and  Unesco will surely do its best to carry out such a  recommendation,
5. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon Dr, Onabamiro, delegate of Nigeria.
6.1 Mr. ONABAMIRO (Nigeria):  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all  I would like, on behalf of the delegation of the  Federation of Nigeria, to express my thanks and  appreciation to the General Conference for placing  on the agenda this very important subject of interna-  tional relations and exchanges in education, science  and culture, which the Conference rightly regards  as a theme of vital concern to Unesco.
6.2 As there will be many speakers on this subject,  which has many aspects, I shall select as my special  theme paragraph 4a on page 2, Section IV of Journal  No. 18, The teaching of living languages and the  adaptation of education to the needs of international  understanding as a measure of a practical and tech-  nical nature in educational, scientific and cultural  fields,
6.3 Mr. President, I would ask your indulgence  to trace briefly some events in past history which  appear to me to indicate the trenda that events in  Tropical Africa may take in the future, We are  told by historians that the Boths, the Vandals and  the Huns conquered the Roman Empire in the West   PLENARY  in the Fifth century A,D, All the lands and the peoples  formerly under the Pax Romana split up after that  conquest, They developed rival nationalisms and  built up independent nations, and 80 we had the  Germans, the French, the ‘Spanish, the Italians, the  English, and so on, These nations, spurred on "by  their rival mationalisms, soon began to fight one  another and, in the process of fighting, the pursuit of  learning and the cultivation of the arts receded into  the background and darkness fell over Europe,
6.4 We are warned that history | never repeats  itself in exactly the same pattern; yet I see a danger-  ously close analogy between the newly independent  nations of Tropical Africa of this century and those  of Western Europe which gained their independence  from the old Roman Empire in the Fifth century A.D.
6.5 Within the last three or four years not less  than 14 African States have become independent. of  these, 11 new States with a population of about 23  million people have’ gained independence from France,  three new States with a population of approximately
50 million people have gained independence from  Great Britain, and one with a population of 13 million  people has gained independence from Belgium. In the  next two to three years more African nations are  likely to achieve full independence.
6,6 "ww, what are the realities of the present  situation? People in independent Ghana cannot corres-  pond with those in independeat Guinea, since Ghana  is English-speaking and Guinea is French-speaking.  We in indcendent Nigeria, for the same reason,  cannot communicate with independent Dahomey or  Togo, our neighbours, unless we have linguists from  Europe to serve us aa interpreters. I shall not be  very much surprised if I am told that the two  Republics of the Congo, now both independent, cannot  communicate with one another for the same reason.
6.7 As these newly independent nations are sealed  up from one another by the barrier of language, inter-  national relations and exchanges in education, science  and culture become virtually impossible, Ae rival  nationalisms develop in these newly independent  nations, ignorance of one ‘another's problems and  difficulties may engender distrust and suspicion.  The distrust and suspicion may grow into hostility,
6.8 We in Tropical Africa may well be grateful to  Providence that our Dresent leaders who struggled  and achieved independence for us are moderate,  liberal-minded and enlightened men, But these  leaders are not immortal, Beforé long their places  will be taken, one by one, by new leaders, some of  whom may develop not only dictatorial but also  imperial ambitions, Such tendencies would greatly  endanger the peace of the world, even far more than  the world witnessed a few centuries after the down-  fall of the Roman Empire, because in those ancient  times newly independent nations that were small went  into warfare against one ‘another without drawing in  big powerful nations on‘opposite sides, since these  did not exist. In the present century, ‘however, if a  newly independent African nation were to be rash  enough to sally forth into battle against another newly  independent nation, the chances are that the war  would not de localized between the two African nations,  but would spread beyond Africa to draw in bigger  and more powerful nations from abroad, That, of  course, would be a world-wide tragedy.
6.9 It is a possibility of this kind, even though it  may be thought to bé remote at present that the  Nigerian delegation would like this Conferénce to  bear in mind, And it is for this reason that we re-  gard the question of international relations and ex-  changes in education, science and culture, particu-  larly among thé newly independent nations in Tropical  Africa, as being of vital importance for the mainten-  ance of world peace. We believe also that Unesco is  eminently placed to build up the machinery for making  international relations and exchanges possible in the  African continent,
6.10 Mr, President, forgivé 1 me if I ‘contimually  speak about the new nations of Tropical Africa, The  delegate from Great Britain very rightly said yester-  day that this is Africa's year in Unesco and I speak,  Sir, on the asgumption that we all agree with that  distinguished delegate, If you draw two lines across  a map of Africa, one along latitude 25° north and the  other along latitude 10° south of the Equator, you  enclose between those two lines more than 20 African  nations, with Mauretania and Ethiopia on the extreme  north end Tanganylka on the extreme south, Of these,
11 new nations with a population of approximately’ 23  million people were formerly under French domina-  tion and the majority of the literate people of those  countries speak and write only French, On the other  hand, between thése two lines, we have a population  of about 56 million people of whom the majority of  the literate people can only speak and write English.
6,11 Looking again at the map of Africa, if you  draw a line along latitude 10° north of the Equator,  you will find that from that line northwards there is  a belt of Hausa- speaking people extending from  Senegal on the extreme west coast of Africa to the  former French Cameroons, well to the east of  Nigeria. Among these Hausa-speaking peoples, a  second language, Arabic, is used particularly by  the intellectuals and unites the millions of Moslems  in West Africa with their co-religionists in North  Africa ad beyond. But these two languages are not  undarstood by the peoples of the coastal belt, among  whom have arigen the majority of the present leaders  of the newly independent nations, ;
6.12 One very great contribution which Unesco  could make to foster international relations and ex-  changes in education, science and culture among the  newly independent nations of Tropical Africa would  be to build an international college for the purpose  of teacking four languages (English, French, Hausa  and Arabic) somewhere in Tropical Africa, at a  point fairly equidistant between Senegal in the west  and Somalia in the east, where teachers récruited by  Unesco from other nations could teach English,  French, Hausa and Arabic for a period of {bout ten  years. The task of the international college would  be twofold: to run vacation courses which could be  attended by leaders from the different African nations,  and to send members of the staff to the various  countries to teach in the secondary schools during  part of the year,
6.13 We in Nigeria, for instance, are very ron-  scious of the disadvantage of not understanding  French, particularly aa three of our four national  boundaries are formed by French-speaking countries  and the fourth is the Atlantic Ocean! Efforts are  being made by the Ministries of Education in the   XXII  Federation of Nigeria to secure teachers from France  to teach'in Nigerian secondary ‘schools, but a far better  solution to thig problem would be for Nigeria to be  able to call upon teachers from the suggested inter-  national college to work in Nigerian schools during  certain months of the year, This proposal would  also meet the requirements of thé other newly inde-  pendent nations in Tropical Africa as well,
6,14 It is not without reason that I suggest a period  of ten years. Among newly itidependent nations it is  inevitable that some sections of public opinion propose  the adoption of an indigenous language in place of the  language of the former imperial power, But the  experience of nations which have achieved independence  before us in Africa indicates that the most realistic  approach to this problem is to continue to use for a  time the language of the old imperial power, which  has served to unite the different tribes and ethnic  groups of a former colonial territory, while an  indigenous language is being ‘developed to the stage  where it could usefully take the place of the foreign  language. In this connexion, I was impressed by the  advice given by the Indian delegate yesterday when he  told ua that, on achieving independence, India resolved  to continue using English for a period of ten years,  by which time an Indian national language was to be  developed. It is algo of interest to hear from the  distinguished delegate of the USSR that in the early  years of the Soviet republics the Russian language  was adopted as the official language for all the  republics for a period of ten years, while the native  languages of 47 republics were being developed,
6.15 It is for these reasons, Mr, President, that  I am suggesting a period of ten years for the operation  of the proposed international college so that, while the  newly Independent nations of Tropical Africa are  developing their indigenous languages, French,  English, Hausa and Arabic would be taught to and  used by students of secondary schools and leaders of  public opinion in the areas mentioned, and serve as  a means of communication for the conduct of inter-  national relations and exchanges in education, science  and culture.
1. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon Mr. Zulawski, delegate of Poland.
8.1 Mr. ZULAWSKI (Poland) (Translation from the  French);  Mr. President, the purpose of this discussion is  to formulate general ideas, with a view to establishing  the principles on which international relations and  exchanges in the fields of education, sctence and cul-  ture should be based. It is both a thrilling and a diffi-  cult task. There is no burning bush in which we may  find a decalogue containing these principles - we must  seek and find them where they really are - in the past  and in the present of the human race.
8.2 We must search in thé past, because cultural  relations and exchanges are as old as humanity itself.  They are not the discovery of our generation or our  century, nor even of our Organization - on the con-  trary, Unesco owes its existence to them, They go  back to the day when the first rule of international law -  “Kill all foreigners" - was replaced by another -  "Welcome and protect foreigners', And at all stages  in their development, the object, whether conscious
364  PLENARY MEETINGS  or not, of these international cultural relations has  always been the same as in our day - to attain greater  mutual understanding through greater mutual know-  ledge and to provide an opportunity for each country  to learn from the values of the other and to proffer  its own values in return. This constant, age-old  exchange of the cultural, intellectual and material  values of national and reglonal civilizations is pre-  cisely what constitutes the heritage of mankind.
8,3 If this is so - as I believe - is there anything  still to be done? And, if so, what?
8.4 There is indeed something still to do. Now  that we haye searched for and found the common  factor in the philosophic mechanism of international  exchanges in the fields of education, science and  culture in the past and in our own Cay, let us try to  determine the differences,
8.5 It appears to me that there is at least one new  phenomenon which is characteristic of our period end  which is fundamental to any discussion of the problem -  the realization that international éultural relations  and exchanges need not’ necessarily follow the improve-  ment of political relations, but may precede it, pave the  way for it and reduce international political tensions.  This realization of the political implications of cul-  tural exchanges was a consequence of the two wars,  which laid waste the most beautiful regions in the  world; and not only individuals and nations realized  its importance, but also governments, The firat  world organization for education, science and culture  in the history of mankind was founded after the most  terrible war that man has ever experienced, and it  was an intergovernmental organization. Today the  smallest embassies or legations have their cultural  attachés or advisers - an office that did not exist  after the "'! ‘st World War. In our day, the nations  realize - , governments ought to realize - that  cultural relations with other nations serve the cause  of peaceful coexistence - and it is their wish that  they should do so. .
8.6 This function of intérnational cultural relations,  however, depends upon. two mutually. contradictory  phenomena which are characteristic of our era -.on  the one hand, the high degree of perfection attained  by technical ‘communication and transmission media,  and on the other thé wide gap between the stages of  economic and technical development reaciied by  different parts of the world and different countries.
8.7 Taking these general considerations as a basis  I should like to say something about certain aspects  of the principles which should be observed in inter-  national cultural relations and exchang-s, Having  defined the object of these exchanges, in fact, we  must now define some of the conditions under which  such relations and exchanges must be established.
8,8 In the first place, I should like to bring up a  difficult but important problem - the problem of non-  interference in the internal affairs of other nations  when cultural contact and exchanges are being made.  It is a difficult problem because, in tlie nature of  things, any cultural exchange is to some degree an  interference in the life of the receiving nation; it  brings in foreign elements from outside, And it is  an important problem because, if we take it as a  fundamental that cultural exchanges cannot be used  to promote war, yet it is, unfortunately, quite  possible that they should be used as a stimulus to the   PLENARY  cold war, There is, therefore, one principle - the  principle of considered non-interference - which  means that each partner has the right to refuse any  exchange it deems unacceptable; and this principle  should be generally accepted and applied,
8,9 Another problem is that of just and equitable  reciprocity in international exchanges. A problem  arises where there are rich countries side by side  with poorer ones, countries whose language, culture,  art and literature are universally famous side by  side with others whose cultural values, while they  may be of an equally high standard, are not yet well  known. Would not the rich countries be tempted to  suggest to their less favoured partners a parity like  that offered by the pork-butcher to his customers - a  pâté made of horse-meat and lark, in the proportion of  one horse to one lark?
8,10 And would there not be a temptation for the  poorer countries whose needs in the fields of science  and culture are great, to accept from their more  affluent partners cultural exchanges based on the  method used Jn regiments by canny soldiers - the  principle of "You mount guard today instead of me,  and in return I'11 collect your tobacco ration to-  morrow" ?
8,11 The problem of reciprocity in cultural rela-  tions and exchanges will always be difficult and  perplexing, because the basic facts relating to the  two countries concerned are not always comparable.  Some countries are great exporters of cultural and  artistic values and some are great importers - but,  unfortunately, they are not always the same countries.  Generally speaking, the range and scope of a country's  thought, artistic achievements and language depend  on its political and economic power. Ina world in  which more than half of the human population lives in  countries which history has not spared and which  must begin by creating a better future, the heritage  of these countries ie a graye handicap to them. They  have to cope with many problemas on which their cul-  tural development depends - that is obvious, To  illustrate my point, however, I shall take one detail -  the question of copyright, There are many actual  cases in which copyright, legitimate in itself, runs.  counter to the exalted belief that all the inhabitants  of our planet should have access to the treasures of  human creativity, How many countries are forced to  limit the number of books translated or to permit  only a small number to be printed, simply because  material circumstances make it impossible for them  to find the foreign currency required in order to  transfer the author's royaltiea? My own country,  which is a signatory of the Berne Convention, but  which is also a major publisher of foreign literature  and hag a large market for it, knows something about  this problem. And then there are all the countries  which have recently achieved independence who are  hungry for Looks, but short of foreign exchange, Is  not this ex4ggerated commercialization of western  culture cutting the ground frora under their feet?  There is no question of challenging the validity of the  princinles underlying international copyright conven-  tions, but scme way should be found of dealing with  this aspect of the matter.
8.12 Another point is that it is not always easy for  what we call a "small" country to solve the problem  of just reciprocity without falling into the snare of
365  MEETINGS XXI  one-way exchanges. Anyway, in the field of cultural  exchanges it is hard to say how much is giving and  how much receiving, Often enough a country will  make a mistake, and think that it has been the donor  when in fact it has been the recipient and vice versa,  A few years ago, for example, one of my illustrious  fellow-countrymen was carrying on an interpationul  campaign for the publication, in foreign languages,  of the works of our most famous poet, Adam  Mickiewicz; those who know of him will agree that  he is one of the world's greatest poets, Speaking to  a distinguished audience in a great foreign country,  my fellow-countryman deplored the fact that, in  that country's encyclopaedia, he had not been able to  find the name of Mickiewicz, which ought to have  come after that of Mickey Mouse, Nobody laughed.  Nobody knew who Mickiewicz was, Returning to  Poland, my illustrious fellow-countryman related  this mishap to an audlence of young students,  Nobody laughed. Nobody knew who Mickey Mouse  was, The result'of it all, however, will be that  Mickiewicz will have his place in the foreign  country's enéyclopaedia and Mickey Mouse will have  his in the Polish encyclopaedia. And I do not think  that the foreign country had the worst of this parti.  cular cultural exchange,
8.13 A few words about modern media of communi-  cation and the exchange of ideas. While these techni-  cal means of transmission are very important, two  grave dangers lie concealed behind these amazing  technical achievements. One is the danger of  forgetting that only a country which possesses  modern methods of transmission such as the preas,  radio and television can engage in the free exchange  of information and ideas, A glance at "World  Communications", which is published by Unesco,  will show that the greater part of the human race is  still without any modern means of transmitting ideas  and information, While this is so, we have no right  to talk about the free circulation of ideas or the free  exchange of information.
8.14 The other danger is that we shall become in-  toxicated withthe technical possibilities presented us  by the modern means of communication and trans-  mission at our disposal and take no thought for the  material transmitted.
8.15 A friend of mine always keeps clear of people  who suggest that he should sit down quietly in a  corner withthem and exchange ideas, "What use is  it", he says, "to exchange my ideas, which are  good ones, for aucther person's ideas, which may  well be bad ones?"
8.16 And here I conclude my remarks, They may  sound frivolous, but they are intended seriously,  For the subject is a serious one, and of the utmost  importance. The sclentific and technical achieve-  ments of the world are receiving admiration, It  would be wise to work out the principles to be  followed in establishing bilateral, regional and  international activities to promote contact and ex-  changes in the fields of education, science and cul-  ture on this earth before technology enables man to  suggest such exchanges to thinking beings on other  . planets,
9. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Icall upon Dr. Gustavo Lagos Matus, delegate of Chile.   XXII PLENARY
10.1 Mr, LAGOS MATOS (Chile) (Translation from  the Spanish):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, 1 shall not  dwell on the need for interriational exchanges in ‘educa-  tion, science and culture, ‘for such exchanges consti-  tute the very basis of Unesco's work and thé reason  for the Organization's existence. I will only empha-  size certain ideas which might inspire these exchanges  in view of the present-day division of the world into  developed éountries and underdeveloped countries.
10,2 The first thing that confronts us when we  recognize, ‘ui the one hand, the need for international  exchanges in education, science and culture, and, on  the othér hand, the néeds of the so-called under-  developed countries, is the limited resources avali-  able for the ‘financing of such exchanges. This raises  the question of the necessary priorities’ between these  exchanges, which we all wish to organize, inthe field  of art as well as in the cultural and setentitic fields.
10.3 One fact of fundamental importance is that a  large part of the world's population is living in  wretched conditions, both social and economic. It is  therefore both essential and urgent to devise all  possible means of ensuring the rapid and harmonious  soclal and economic development of this part of the  world, which is inhabited by some two thousand  million persons,
10,4 Away back in the Middle Ages, the achoolmen  pointed out that men needed a minimum of material  welfare before they could live the good life; we too  might say, mutatis mutandis, that, in order to parti-  cipate, as it were, in art and culture, the peoples  must first enjoy a minimum of social and economic  well-being,
10.5‘ Awareness of underdevelopment has only  recently awakened within the last ten years. I have  been studying the United Nations discussions which  led to the establishment of the Economic Commission  for Latin America, the Economic Commission for  Asia and the Far East, and commissions for other  regions of the world. These discussions, held in
1947; shortly after the creation of the United Nations,  described the situation of underdevelopment without  actually using this term, which appeared much later,  Indeed, only 13 years ago, this term, which now  serves as a criterion for dividing thé world into two  zones, had not even been coiried. The term coincided  with awareness of the fact itself, or to use Myrdal's  words, with a great awakening: the underdeveloped  countries became conscious of their underdevelopment.
10.6 Just ag in the Nineteenth century the workers  became aware of their human rights, so in the  Twentieth century certain countries have become  conscious of their underdevelopment in comparison  with other regions of the world.
10.7 Yet, Mr, President, what do we know about  this phenomenon of development and underdevelopment,  the fundamental phenomenon of our time, the pheno-  menon that 1s now dividing the world and influencing  the policies of the great powers? Eminent economists,  such as Myrdal and Prebisch, have pointed out that  the theories of social and economic development  worked out in Western countries, particularly in  Europe and the United States of America, are not  applicable to underdevéloped countries. Thus, we  .note, an hiatus between this awareness of under-  development and the need to promote harmonious  N 366  MEETINGS  social and economic development on the one hand,  and, on the other a lack of adequate knowledge -  from the standpoint of the social sciences, economics,  political science and sociology - concerning the social  and economic machinery éapable of enabling undèr-  developed countries to become developed countries.
10,8 This phenomenon is of the greateat ‘import-  ance, for whereas the social and economic’ develop-  ment of Western Europe and of the United States’ of  America took place spomaneously, thanks to the  efforta of what Schumpeter calls the "innovating  entrepreneur’, in present- day underdeveloped  countries, social and economic develop:nent must  take place on a basis ‘induced to some extent by the  State; thus; it is necessary to establish social and  economic development plans, and, if we have not  sufficient knowled-re of this social and economic  machinery, we ¢ome up against a very serioua  difficulty, the impossibility of drawing up plans on a  truly scientific basis.
10.9 Experts from developed’ countries go to under-  developed countries, but are sometimes unfamiliar  with the conditions existing in these countries and  try to transplant there theories or concepts appro-  priate to developed countries,
10,10 On the other hand, speéialists belonging to  underdeveloped countries sometimes lack the neces-  sary theoretical knowledge and research techniques  which would enable them to make a scientific study  of their own social and economic situation.
10.11 Thus, Mr. President, I am of the opinion  that the working out of a theory of social and economic  development and underdevelopment, which we still  lack, calls for large-scale international co-operation  between experts from hoth developed and under-  developed countries; it is a typical case of a study  which should be made of the different cultures and of  the different social and economic systems through  comparative research conducted by experts from  both zones or regions of the world,
10.12 Mr, President, in Latin America - as you  are well aware, for you come from Brazil - we are  engaged in the go-called "Pan-American operation",  which was launched on the proposal of the President  of Brazil and which is a total war by the Latin  American countries and the United States of America  against underdevelopment. For the purposes of this  campaign, the problem has been posed in terms of  planned economic development, i.e, social and  economic development based on plans drawn up by  State or public organizations in conjunction with  private enterprise.
10.13 We are of the opinion that Unesco, when  working out its plans for international axchanges in  education, science and culture, should give priority  to the study of these problems of social and economic  development and underdevelopment, otherwise we  shall be working on à false basis, an unscientific  basis, Mr. President, and, as it is one of the aims  of this Organization to further aclence, we must  endeavour to promote through our Organization such  esearch as will enable the world to ensure the social  and economic development of underdeveloped countries  on a more practical and scientific basis, taking full  advantage of the experience of developed countries,
10,1% At the same time, the Inter-American -  initiative can serve as an example to other parts of   PLENARY  the world: twenty Latin American countries and the  United States of America have set up à reglonal  organization to wage total war upon social and eco-  nomic underdevelopment,
10,15 It would be interesting to see how far this  experiment by a regional organization could be re-  peated in other continents, such as Africa (for this  has been said to be Africa's year) by promoting,  through co-operation between the African under-  developed countries and the developed countries of  Western Europe in closest contact with this region of  the world, a vast plan for total war upon this funda-  mental evil of our day.
10,16 That is my first point, Mr: President, The  second point also refers to the limited amount of  resources, but is viewed from another angle.
10,17 We know that there are at present multi-.  lateral plans for international exchanges (Unesco's  plan is a typical example of such plans); but there  are also bilateral plans for international exchanges,  sponsored by the governments of certain developed  countries, such as the United States Government, the  French Government and the German Government, in  co-operation with other countries wishing to receive  technical assistance. .
10.18 I feel that Unesco should try to co. ordinate  these multilateral programmes for international ex-  changes with bilateral programmes, in order to avoid  overlapping and make a better use of the available  resources, which are very small in proportion to the  immensity of the needs,
10.19 In this context, I should like to refer to an  experiment which is now being carried out - at the  very time when the General Conference of Unesco is  in session - and in which I have taken part as  Secretary-General of the Latin American Social  Science Faculty of Santiago de Chilé, which, as you  know, is an institution sponsored by Unesco.
10, 20 We are now studying with the French Govern-  ment a bilateral agreement under which a contract  will be concluded between the Sixth Section of the "Ecole  pratique des Hautes Etudes" atthe Sorbonne and the  Latin American Faculty, which, it is hoped, will be  subsidized by the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
10.21 The object of this contract is as follows: the  Sixth Section of the "Ecole pratique des Hautes  Etudes" will ensure liaison for all social science  institutions in France, and the Social Science Faculty  of Santiago de Chile will ensure liaison for all social  science institutions in the Latin American region,  with a view to promoting jointly a series of studies  relating to the social and economic development of  Latin American countries, in order to increase  scientific knowledge about the still inadequately  known theory of underdevelopment and development  and in order to establish permanent co-ordination  between the development of the social sciences in  France and their development in Latth America.
10,22 This experiment has been uñdertaken in  agreement with the Unesco Department of Social  Sciences and, although it is of very limited scope,  it 18 an example of the co-ordination which 1s possible  between bilateral and multilateral plans. §;’  _10.23 Inconclusion, Mr, President, Ifeel that Unesco,  whose work is so important - and that is why it receives  our enthusiastic support - might take into account the  two principles I have endeavoured to outline.
11, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H,E, Mr. Malalasekera, Head of the  delegation of Ceylon.
12,1 Mr. MA LA LASEKERA (Costonk  Mr, President, ladies and gontlemen, we are  here gathered together, as J understand it, to dis-  cuss matters of policy. When we speak of policy  we should be clear in our own minds about the  motives that inapire our policy and the criteria by  which it can be defined, Clearly a list of projects  and activities cannot, by the mere fact that these  are related to the objectives of Unesco, demonstrate  a policy, In the general statement which I made  earlier on behalf of the delegation of Ceylon |  referred to Unesco as being above ill an instrument  of international co-operation and of intérnational  exchange. With your permission, may I quote a few  relevant sentences from that statement? "My dele-  gation" I said, "would like to lay great stress on  the fact that i is not enough for Unesco to be the  internationally recognized channel for aid to develop-  ing countries. Unesco was not founded for the ex-  clusive purpose of being an agent for the economic  development of retarded areas. It is one thing to be  the instrument for developing the human and other  resources of Member States and it is quite another  to be only an agency for assistance to underdeveloped  countries. There should be a two-way flow between  countries which are economically retarded and those  that are, if I may say so, technologically over-  developed. There i8 an equilibrium in the field of  culture and, by that word, we mean the entire com-  plex of the sclences and the arts which Unesco must  constantly keep before it as the basic and fundamental  purpose of its programme and action, It is not for  Unesco to caricature itself before the exigencies of  economic development by training a specialized  labour force of experts and technicians who confine  their activities to ambulance work rather than to the  splendid task of world transformation. In fact, the  very economic development in these countries de-  mands a fuller, bolder and broader programme of  general education in order to have an informed  citizenry of creative technicians, capable administra-  tora and trustworthy leaders. This is the test of  education, The task before Unesco is that of ad-  vancing and enriching the culture of each country,  whatever its stage of development, Herein lies the  true meaning of development and exchange, It is  this mutual exchange and enrichment that is the key  to aid which comes from an international organiza-  tion, It is this key which makes such aid different  from purely bilateral assictance,, It is the responsi-  bility of Unesco to demonstrate this difference,  What, in fact, we are trying to say is that it 1s not  enough to refer to the Constitution in happy preambles,  The Constitution must be demonstrated in the pro-  gramme and the programme must represent a  coherent whole, a clearly-defined policy".
12,2 Mr, Predident, there are the directives of  the Constitution which are, above all, summed up  in the reference to "popular education and culture"  . It will be noted that this term is not used in any -  restrictive sense; it refers rather to the develop-  ment of the totality of educational and cultural re-  sources, for x balanced and healthy society. Further,   XXII - PLENARY MEETINGS  there are the directives of the Economic and Social  Council and the United Nations Commission on the  Status of Women, eto, None of these additional  charges are in contradiction with the basic responsi-  bility of Unesco. The question is whether it would  not be advisable and realistic to consider, in each  two-year period, a phase of activity within which the  detailed work of the various Departmerits takes mean-  ing, and which, in their ensemble, will representa  planned advancement towards the achievement of the  total objectives of Unesco. For instance, if emphasis  is placed on primary education in certain areas, it  must be clear not only that this is because there is a  need for it, but also because, as far as Unesco is  concerned, - the step is taken as a necessary condition  towards raising the popular cultural standards in those  areas, It must also be made clear that the action  taken is envisaged in correlation with those taken in  other areas where à different type of action may be  required, It should be demonstrated as a type of  action which is also carried out in reference to the  general objective of maintaining and developing cul-  tural levels, international understanding, etc.
12,3 Rapldity of communications makes our planet  daily smailer and we have attained what has been well  described as "physical neighbourliness and spiritual  distance", Thia sudden proximity of other races has  created problems of understanding, particularly in  the Occident. To bring about international under-  standing and goodwill there must not only be tolerance  of each other's values, but also true comprehension  and appreciation of them, Technologically under-  developed countries often have a precious heritage  that must be preserved. Undue emphasis on techni-  cal ability may well destroy important values and  important cultural patterns. Mahatma Gandhi once  said that, while our windows should be open for the  winds from all the four quarters to blow through them,  they should not allow blasts to enter which will rock  the very foundations of our house. Who would be  daring enough to say that the Asian peasant who is  prepared to walk twenty miles, often with an empty  stomach, to attend a rendering of his folk music and  folk dance is less "developed" than hia counterpart  elsewhere, who is able to drive a tractor but has no  appreciation at all of his country's culture? Who can  say that literacy and culture are necessarily synony-  mous or that illiteracy necessarily means lack of  culture? Economic imbalance need not always  connote imbalance in the realm of the mind. Ina  truly educated world the culture of mankind must be  orchestrated" culture of diverse national con-  tributions but harmonized and integrated in its totality.
12,4 Mr. President, in Unesco's programme for  education frequent reference is made to the methodo-  logy of education and its accompanying techniques,  I wish that there were greater awareness of and more  frequent reference to the content of education. Educa-  tion is not only pedagogy; the training of a teacher is  not merely a question of methods of teaching. What  provision do we have for the general education of the  teacher? We do not want skilful exponents of methods  and techniques who are intellectually arid and cul-  turally poor, In this connexion, 1 am glad to note that  the Director-General stated in the Programme Com-  mission that he would set up in January a working .  group of staff members with full responsibility to
368  plan a cohérent and administratively unified pro-  gramme for adult education. But, I would urge that  it is not ‘only adult education that needs to be so  treated; there must be a basic and integral purpose  informing all the activities of the programme of the  Organization, .- .
12,5 In my earlier statement I also referred to  the advisability of the Executive Béard setting up a  working party to consider what should be the appro-  priate functions ôf the General Conference. I would  further suggest that it should consider how the  Executive Board itself may fulfil its functions of  acting as an interim General Conference between  two sessions of the Conference, Some of us feel  that members of the Executive Board tend {o repre-  sent their particular countries, whereas their  mandate requires them to represent the collectivity  of Member States, all of whom they are expected to  serve. They should gonsider themselves like mem-  bers of the cabinet of a world State who represent  not merely sectional interests but protect the well-  being of the whole nation.
12,6 Mr, President, 1 would repeat that there is  urgent need for the reorganization and reappraisal  of our work, and my delegation feels strongly that  it would be useful to set up a working party of the  Executive Board with co-opted representatives of a  limited number of Member States, to meet during  the next year to think out afresh the rôle of the  General Conference in the new context of our greatly  enlarged representation.
12,7 There is one other matter 1 should like to  mention, with your indulgence, even if it is not  directly concerned with the present discussion.  Last year, and for six weeks again this year before  coming here, I was a member of my country's dele-  gation to the United Nations General Assembly, and  I have been greatly worried by what I saw there. I  refer in particular to the splitting up of Member  Nations into blocs and groups, and the apparent  rivalry and hostility that exist among them, I was  here at the Unesco General Conference in 1958 and  I am here now, and I seem to find the same tendency  making itself felt in this world organization also. I  am sure, Mr. President, that all right-thinking  people will agree that it would be most unfortunate  should such a tendency be allowed to grow, for it ia  completely contrary to the ideals of Unesco and  inimical to the unity and solidarity which are so  essential for our work of international goodwill and  mutual understanding. How this tendency for isola-  tion into groups can be arrested I do not know, I  merely pose the problem as worthy of consideration,  in the fervent hope and bellef that a solution can and  will be found.
12,8 Delegates to the United Nations are primarily  politicians, and politicians are expected sometimes  to wrangle and fight,- They are allowed the conces-  sion, one might even call it a luxury, of sometimes  baring their teeth and their claws and banging with  their fists and, on rare occasions, even with their  shoes. But we here in Unesco are not politicians;  we are essentially men and women of education and  culture. -We naturally have our different points of  view and, being human, may sometimes loge our  temper. But let us always remember that the hall-  mark of culture is sobriety of conduct and   PLENARY MEETINGS XXII  self-discipline, and if I may say so with deep humility  and with great respect, we must never allow our  debates to deteriorate from the high standards which  the founders of Unesco set up for themselves, This  Organization {8 far too precious an instrument for  the health and happiness of mankind for it to be  allowed to suffer loss of dignity and prestige, [ask  your forgiveness, honourable delegates, if I have  erred in any way in saying this, but it is my great  affection for this institution and my firm conviction  of its immense value to humanity that has prompted  me to do so.
13, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon Dr. Hilding Eek, delegate of Sweden.
14,1 Mr, EEK (Sweden); ;  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I think you  know from long experience that it is with great en-  thusiasm that one recelyes documents from Unesco.  And when one receives a document which contains
500 pages one starts to read it with great interest.  To me, the reading of the survey which we have  before us was most intéréating and exciting. - These
500 pages tell us of travel abroad, studies in foreign  lands, exchanges of television programmes, con-  gresses, symposia, and'so on. This is a tale of  persons and matter in constant motion, as bewilder-  ing and enchanting as the scenery one meets when  one goes into the woods to observe the strange and  busy life and movement in an ant heap.
14.2 A few considerations came to mind while I  was studying this document, and I would like to make  some remarks on them,‘ The first was the amazing  quantity and diversity of these exchanges we read  about, and the second was the fact that these  exchanges are the result, at least in part, of  organized international co-operation. I will deal  first with the second point.
14,3 Textbooks on international organizations  usually include introductory chapters on such  organizations in ancient days, but in fact, and in my  opinion this should be strongly emphasized, organized  co-operation between States and nations is a creation  of our own century, It was not more than 15 years  ago that the United Nations came into being aa a  universal - universal in principle, at least - interna-  tional organization, and Unesco is equally young.  When we examine a survey such as the one which is  before us today, there is reason to recall that the  kind of international co-operation of which this study  is one of many results is something novel in interna-  tional life. The fact that we work together here in  this Conference, and that all nations from day to day,  in the United Nations and all its Specialized Agencies,  take care of their many common concerns - be they  mundane or glamorous - indiçates the possibility of  a co-operation which political dissonances should not  be allowed to destroy. This continuous co-operation  carried out by devoted persons of all nations has made  possible the results reported, It is, moreover, this  kind of quiet work towards agreement and for common  alms that, more than anything else, promotes mutual  understanding in our work. 7
14.4 My second point is this: ‘there are special  reasons to underline the richness and diversity of  current exchanges as reported in the survey. Not
369  only is the coming into being, sinée the Second World  War, of a whole family of universal international  organizations a new feature of world community  which offers great possibilities; we must also riôte  and reflect on the fact that the growth of exchanges  during the short period of 15 years since the war ”  has been enormous and is gomething new in kind,  A young student of today would probably consider  this survey as a catalogue of how to go about making  travel and studies abroad pleasant and useful, how  to find materials and books from foreign countries,  how to learn of ideas and receivé péws from abroad,  That this extensive exchange is possible and actually  exists may seem quite natural to the young student.  But those who are a little older, not so very much  older, would easily recall the days when most people -  and 1 am speaking of the world aaa whole now -  could not afford io travel abroad or were not interested  in doing so, when studies abroad were possible only  for a very small and ‘selected group, and when our  imowledge of foreign peoples - their ways of life,  modes of thinking, languages - was extremely  limited. The picture given us by the survey is quite  different. We must realize that we are faced with a  new phenomenon, a new world in movement, full of  people who are eager to learn about others and are  given the opportunity to learn, who seek and receive  more information from abroad than ever before.  This development would perhaps appear to someone  who might look at it in the beginning of the next  century as being of a revolutionary importance in  our history. Ws who live today may well, then, put  to ourselves the question whether the generations  who actually benefit from current exchanges will not  be more fit than the generations they succeed to  carry out the policy of good neighbourly relations  for which the United Nations and Unesco were created.
14,5 Moreover, we must remember that, ina  sense, the present international relations between  individuals and between the agsociations of which  they are members have to a large extent been  developed by individual free will and initiative,  There is in existence a genuine people's movement  for a better knowledge of other countries, and per-  haps this movement should not be strictly regle-  mented by governmental action or too eagerly watched  over by intergovernmental organizations. While  Unesco and other agencies must continue to promote  and facilitate exchange, they should let life take its  own course. For this reason I do not see much use  in the suggestions made in the paper before us that  we try to formulate, at this stage, principles or  standards which could serve as guiding lines for  action in the field of education, science and culture,  I think we are moving ahead quite well in spite of  the fact that we have not yet formulated such  principles,
14,6 Leaving these general considerations, Mr,  President, 1 would like to say a few words concern-  ing the work of Unesco in the field of mass communi-  cation, and I hope you will excuse me if I introduce  a slightly personal note into this exposé. I have had  an opportunity over the past ten years to observe  the evolution of the concept of freedom of informa-  tion - first as a member of the Secretariat of the  United Nations, and now in the capacity of consultant  to the Secretary-General of the United Nations in   Xx  tho preparation of a report on recent developments  in the field of freedom of information, The United  Nations has been concerned with the broad legal and  political or ideological aspects of freedom of informa-  tion, and its efforts have centred around the problem  of how to define that elusive freedom. This problem  will not be discussed here, But I would like to point  out that freedom of information is being continuously  furthered by the work of Unesco of which we read in  _ the section dealing with mass communication in the  survey we are discussing today. In doing so, Unesco  fulfils its obligation under our Constitution to "pro-  mote the free flow of ideas"
14.7 The free flow of ideas, with which this whole  survey is concerned, depends in large measure ona  full and free flow of educational, scientific and cul-  tural materials of all kinds and on the unimpeded  movement of persons. It has been a special task of  Unesco to deal with the existing economic and techni-  cal obstacles to the international circulation of both  materials and persons. These obstacles and restric-  tions have, on the whole, come to flourish by accident  rather than by design, For example, protective  tariffs have grown up for the regulation of international  commerce as a whole, but have been reluctantly  applied to books, works of art and other materials  the circulation of which governments would not wish  to impede.
14.8 It has been the rôle of Unesco, and a very  important one, to keep constantly before governments  the necessity of promoting the free flow of materials  and persons and of indicating the practical means  whereby this objective could be realized, In an era  of striking technological advance it becomes all the  more necessary that the new means of communication  between peoples should be used without restriction to  promote educational advancement and international  understanding. This is a duty which is, of course,  incumbent in the first place on Member States, but  we shall continue to look to Unesco to point the way,  to focus attention on the obstacles and to devise possible  solutions. This, indeed, is what was done at this  Conference when the Programme Commission, by a  unanimous vote, approved a series of suggestions to  Member States as to measures they might wish to  take to promote the free flow of information. In  carrying out these suggestions, Member States will  be helping to see to it that all the channels of com-  munication are used effectively to promote interna-  tional relations in education, science and culture,
14,9 In conclusion, Mr, President, I want to re-  call the text of the Article dealing with freedom of  information in the Universal Declaration of Human  Rights. It confers upon everyone the right "to seek,  receive and import information and ideas through any  media and regardless of frontiers". It is difficult to  reach agreement upon a detailed definition in legal  terms of this right, as l have already sald; a higher  degree of mutual understanding between all nations,  of tolerance and good faith will be required before  such an agreement can be reached. But, in the  méantiime, Unesco's programme in this field most  effectively helps to allow people everywhere to  enjoy the kind of broad access to knowledge which  is the aim of freedom of information, however  defined. .This programme, 7 think, needs all  our support.  , 37C  PLENARY MEETINGS
15, . The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon Mr. Simeon Songue, delegate of  Cameroun.
16.1 Mr, SONGUE (Cameroun) (Translation from  the French).  Mr. President and delegates, I shall not take up  a great deal of your time with the very interesting  problems with which we are now dealing. Those  who attended the meetings of the Programme Com-  mission and of the Working Party on Tropical Africa  already know of our needs. I shall, however, take  the opportunity of speaking about problems connected  with education, science and culture and thé free  flow of educational, scientific and cultural informa-  tion throughout the world; and draw the attention of  the Director-General to two specific points: first  the problem of the teaching of living languages in  primary schools. Iam fully, in agreement with this  idea, for the matter is an urgent one and of the  first necessity for Tropical Africa.
16.2 You all know how many languages there are  in the area covered by our States, Strictly speaking  the multitude and diversity of our dialects are un-  believable. I think therefore that pending the solu-  tion of this problem - for it must be solved - Unesco  can use translations into the two living languages  which are most widely spoken in Tropical Africa -  French and English. But these translations must  not cause us to forget the need for developing and  making a profound study ‘of the vernaculars spoken  in our countries; for although "'Traduttore e tradittore"  it is quite certain that if international culture is to  find its way to the vast mass of our peoples, and if  Africa is to communicate its own cultural wealth to  the rest of the world, it can only be through the use  of the vernacular languages which are the storehouse  of that wealth.
16.3 I would therefore draw the Director-General's  attention to the necessity for rapid translation into  the living languages most widely spoken in Tropical  Africa today, at least among intellectuals - that is  to say French and English - of works published in  Europe, America and Asia,
16.4 There is another and much more serious  point still to which I would like algo to draw the  Director-General's notice - the problem of informa-  tion, It has frequently been pointed out at meetings  of the Programme Cominission that Africa is above  all lacking in means of information. Our require-  ments in this field are immense. Five years ago  when I left the Sorbonne, ! went home to teach  philosophy; a year later I felt to what extent I was  cut off from the rest of the educated world. 1 no  longer knew what had been published either in  France or other countries, as 1 did when I was  Hving here in France.
16.5 We should therefore like, as the Ceylon  delegate sald, to see translators given the oppor-  tunity of making translations ‘without being slaves  to copyright so that the translatéd works may not  cost too much, I would also like to suggest, to  simplify Uneaco's work, that there should be set  up in Africa a board - or institute if you prefer -  which would have the task of centralizing cultural,  scientific and educational work carried out in the  rest of the world and centralizing also efforts made   PLENARY MEETINGS XXII  in this field in the countries of Tropical Africa. 1  think that the work would be simplified and informa-  tion would be more rapid if, instead of always re-  sorting to Unesco, we could have competent repre-  sentatives on the spot whom we could consult  immediately when the need arose.
16.6 Obviously, resources would have to be made  available to this institute, for it is above all the media  of information which are lacking in Africa, Iam  speaking particularly of the cinema, radio, television,  and other media which would enable us to save what  can still be saved of African culture, These means  would also enable us to spread among the African  masses the cultures of other nations. It would be an  effective way of enriching our people's culture, and  also that of the remainder of the world through the  common cultural heritage.
16,7 Finally, I would like to point out that, in such  a board or institute, measures vould have to be taken  to train African technicians, for it should be recognized  that, if Africa is to assert its membership of the  human family and impose its personality in the cul-  tural field, it is Africans who must do it. I would  therefore urge that, in connexion with the proposed  programme, you also consider - as we have already  poirted out at meetings of the Programme Commission -  that training Africans will help you to understand  Africa and understand the remainder of the world.
17. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French}  I call upon Mrs. Magda Joboru, to speak on be-  half of the Hungarian delegation.
18.1 Mrs. JOBORU (Hungary):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the  Hungarian National Commission for Unesco has  studied with great interest the survey on international  educational, scientific and cultural relations and  exchanges, We belleve that the detailed factual  material in this document is most useful for Unesco,  several other international educational, scientific  and cultural organizations and for individual countries,  We are of the opinion, however, that this work could  have been èven more valuable if, rather than being  only factual;’ it was also analytical and more conclu-  sions had been drawn. We feel that there is a certain  disparity between the detailed factual material of the  survey and the conclusions reached, including several  of the statements on the broadening of international  cultural relations and thieir uneven geographical  distribution, and some technical barriers to these  international relations.
18.2 How can international educational, ‘acientifle  and cultural relations be used to ease and eliminate  the prejudice, distrust and reserve between nations  living under different sécial circumstances, having  different traditions and opinions, and how can these  contacts strengthen their mutual interest, under-  standing and co-operation? This is the great prob-  lem now under discussion and upon which 1 want to  comment.
18.3 The healthy development of a national educa-  tional, scientific and cultural system is the priinary  condition of all international relations. The quicker  and fuller the cultural development of a country, the  greater is thé demand of its intellectuals and of the  whole people to become acquainted with the outstanding
371  cultural achievements of all the world in order to  avoid the danger of provincialisni’and to enrich and  colour its netional culture with the cultural values  of other countries. At the same time, of course,  there is a growing demand for making the values of  this developing national culture available to the whole  world. I belong to those Hungarian intellectuals who  can make a comparison, based on personal experi-  ence, between the cultural life in Hungary during  the inter-war period and that of the liberated ccuntry,  and I declare with deep conviction that international  cultural relations which strengthen friendship and  peaceful co-operation between nations can best be  served by the cultural development of individual  countries.
18.4 In this connexion I would like to mention how  much I was impressed by the facts of the survey  which show the great educational, scientific and cul.  tural differences between peoples, and the shocking  backwardness of a considerable part of the world.  I already knew many of these facts but they really  shocked me when I saw them assembled in the  survey, We agree with the conclusions of the survey  which aim at the further promotion of the cultural  development of Africa and Asia. Not only interna-  tional organizations, but all the various countries  of the world should participate in this expanding  support, in a spirit of generosity and non-interference.  We should all accept responsibility for the social  and cultural development of theme people.
18.5 It is essential that all those who are respons-  ible for the development of international educational,  scientific and cultural relations should be convinced  that better understanding and co-operation. between  nations canonly be served by knowledge of the life  and ideals of other peoples, The technical tools of  cultural contacts, such as books, newspapers, films,  radio, television and so on, important as they are,  do not always give a true picture of national life  even to people living in the same country, They, of  course, know their own country from personal  experience, but it is always more difficult to com-  municate with distant lands and people.
18.6 We often experience the need for the free  flow of information which is referred to in Unesco's  programme and also in the survey as the basis of all  international relations. We are in complete agree-  ment with this, provided each country gives to its  people true information concerning the life and cul-  ture of other peoples, and provided all the intérna-  tional organizations promote this same purpose,  The free flow of true information really brings  different peoples nearer to each other. But the free  flow of distorted ideas does exactly the opposite; it  poisons the international atmosphere and creates  distrust and prejudice.
18.7 We Hungarians might have a great deal to  say on this subject, since so much distorted informa-  tion has been circulated concerning our country in  the past few years. But the creation of direct inter-  national relations, even in well developed countries,  {s for the present reserved for only a small part of  each nation. And we who promote education, science  and culture belong to this minority. I believe that  this position of advantage and privilege places a  great responsibility on all of ua; our task is to  endeavour, with open eyes and heart, to become   XX!  acquainted with each other's thoughts and ideas, This  is the only way for us to become the advocates of  friendship and understanding among those who, for  the time being, have no chance of making direct inter-  national relations.
18,8 Good and bad experiences of many years have  led me to conclude that international contacts between  those who promote education, science and culture can  gerve mutual understanding, appreciation and co-  operation between people only if this work is under-  taken by persons of intsllectual, cultural and moral  integrity who are capable of exchanging ideas with  others who have different opinions, and are inspired  only by the search for truth in science, the arts and  community life,
18.9 Once at an international meeting I was told by  the representative of a Western country that he did  not like to enter into controversy with representatives  of socialist countries, because he thought that they  only participated in international conferences in  order to propagate their own ideas and because they  had no interest in or understanding of people with  different ideas on education, literature, the arts,  and especially social development. As I listened to  him, I thought of all the Hungarian intellectuals who  try to take every opportunity of broadening their out-  look through direct contacts, who are very interested  in opinions in the fields of education, science and the  arts which differ from theirs, opinions on the social  development of humanity included. We reject only  those ideas which are clearly contrary to scientific  truth and are lacking in the spirit of humanism, At  the same time, we are sincerely interested in every  opinion which is based on real fact and which is in-  fluenced by the spirit of humanism and by the desire  to make life better, mure reasoned and more human.  We believe that practice will decide which of these  opinions or which of our own ideas will prove to be  right; they will surely be those which are not the  dreams of well.intentioned dreamers, but those which  are able to make the lives of people better, pleasanter  and more human,
18.10 This is how we approach ideas different  from our ovrn and it is for this reason that we believe  that our ideas should be approached in the same way  by others holding different opinions. Some of the  speakers who preceded me mentionsd Unesco's task  in helping to spread the cultural values of nations  with isolated languages. I propose without any  PLENARY  national prejudice and I request Unesco to give us more  help than in the past in making the more outstanding  achievements of Hungarian culture better known,  Many of our values in the field of education, science,  literature and the arts are little known at present  because of our isolated language and also for other  reasons; our culture is less known than its interna-  tional value would justify.
18,11 Mr. President, the Hungarian delegation  thinks that Unesco has done very useful work in pre-  paring the survey and {n organizing this discussion,  This should Le followed up by drawing the logical  conclusions. Unesco should give ever increasing  agsistance to the cultural development of the leas  developed countries; it ‘should help more in the free  flow of true information concerning the life and cul-  ture of different countries; it should try to ensure  that international cultural relations and exchanges  “
372  MEETINGS  be established among liberal-minded persons and  based on unprejudiced and sincere interest and under-  standing. If Unesco does all this, it will make an  appreciable contribution to the solution of the great-  est problem of our age, the promotion of under-  standing and peaceful co-operation between peoples.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Before closing this afternoon's meeting, I call  upon Professor Assen Hadjiolov, delegate of Bulgaria.
20,1 Mr. HADJIOLOV (Bulgaria) (Translation  from the French):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, the delega-  tion of the People's Republic of Bulgaria coisiders  that the decision taken by the Executive Board at its
56th session was a very valuable one, ‘There is no  doubt that the discussion, at the highest level of our  Organization, of questions of general interest, apart  from our work in connexion with the proposed pro-  gramme and budget for the next two years, can be  of great importance for the better guidance of  Unesco's work In the future.
20.2 Nor is there any doubt that the problem we  are discussing today - international relations and  exchanges, or in a word the aims and methods of  international co-operation in education, science and  culture - is a basic problem both for peaceful co-  existence and the better organization of Unesco's  future work along specific lines,
20.3 Allow me first of all to tell you on behalf of  my delegation that the Government of the People's  Republic of Bulgaria, which directs education,  science and culture in the interest of the people and  along the lines of accelerated conversion to social-  ism, sincerely desires to help and do everything  possible to develop and extend relations and ex-  changes in education, science and culture, in order  better to serve peaceful coexistence, international  solidarity and the progress of mankind.
20.4 It is scarcely necessary to give proof before  this assembly of the fact that science and culture  are creations of the people closely bound up with the  production of material goods, I think we are all con-  vinced that these human activities by their very  nature have largely contributed to peace and to the  fact that both great and small nations are becoming  aware that they are an integral part of a mankind  which must live, work and develop in peace in order  to attain {ts rational objectives. The great desire  of my country to develop aclentific and cultural re-  lations with all peoples is easily explained by the  social structure, which is characteristic of a  people's democracy and also by the very rapid  development of its economy, simultaneously with  education, science and all cultural activities.
20,5 Over the past fifteen years, since our people  took its own destiny in hand, the People's Republic  of Bulgaria has transformed itself from an agricul-  tural country with a weak economy into a socialist  country with a flourishing industry and agriculture.  Overall production and the number of institutions  devoted to education, science, public health and  culture have increased eight to tenfold since 1839,  and in certain fields, for example that of science  and the Academy of Sciences - fifteen to twenty-  fold and over.   PLENARY
20,6 Illiteracy, ar you know, has been banished  from the People's Republic of Bulgaria, Seventy-  five per cent of the children leaving primary school  pursue their studies in secondary schools and techni-  cal colleges; higher education is increasing fast, In  the universities and higher schools there are about
50,000 students. From 2% to 10% of these are  foreigners who come from Albania, Hungary, the  Soviet Union, the People's Republic of China, the  United Arab Republic, Sudan, Algeria, Iraq,  Indonesia, Jordan, Iran, Cameroun, Argentina,  France, Finland, Belgium, etc. In addition there  are 100 students from the German Democratic  Republic who are continuing their studies at the  Faculty of Medicine of Sofia, About 300 Bulgarian  students, apart from the 50,000 in Bulgaria itself,  are studying abroad (in the Soviet Union, Hungary,  France, Belgium etc,), The chief aim of the educa-  tion provided in these establishments is to train the  staff necessary for the rapid development of industry,  agriculiure, science and culture.
20.7 Progress in science is even greater. In the  People's Republic of Bulgaria with a population of  about eight million, the number of scientific workers  now exceeds 6,000. More than half of these are  engaged only in research; the others also act as  teachers or assistants in the universities and higher  educational establishments, In order to be accepted  as an assistant or a research worker, a public com-  petitive examination is compulsory, Apart from  disciplines in which they specialize, candidates take  tests in Russian language and in one of the three  Western languages - French, English or German.
20.8 In order to meet the needs of our rapid  economic and cultural development, the Academy of  Sciences has get up more than 60 research institutes  covering nearly all fields of pure and applied science;  the work of these institutes is co-ordinated but,  administratively, they are completely indepencent of  the institutes and laboratories attached to the uni-  versity faculties and higher educational establishments.  In addition, recearch institutes and laboratories have  been set up under the auspices of ministries, factor [es  and other undertakings. Each Academy institute  publishes a review, of which the bulletins of the  physics, chemistry, morphology institutes are  examples. All articles are accompanied by a sum.  mary {in Russian, and in French, English or German  as the author chooses. The Academy publishes  monthly reports of its proceedings, which include  short articles in one of the four major foreign  languages - Russian, English, French and German.  Both reports and bulletins are sent on an exchange  basis to all foreign Academies and many other  foreign scientific institutions, but a lot remains to  be done in this field, and I belleve that Unesco should  be able to find appropriate means of helping Member  States. I have a number of issues of our journals  available for distribution,
20.9 Every year the Bulgarian Academy of Science  organizes, in co-operation with the higher educational  establishments and those ministries which have re.  search institutes, an Increasing number of congresses,  conferences, and national and international symposia  covering the various branches of science. In  November of this year, for example, an international  round-table on vitamins was held at Sofia. Fifty
3173.  MEETINGS XXI1  delegates from nearly all countries - notably France,  the United Kingdom, etc. - took part, This discussion,  like all the others passed unnoticed by Unesco.
20.10 Bulgarjz exchanges scientists with foreign  countries to the number of 200 a year, either for  the purpose of taking part in international congresses  or for further study. We consider, however, that  this figure is too low, Although our Academy, and  the national research institutes and sclentific associa-  tions, are already members of many international  organizations, much remains to be done in this field.  The Bulgarian Academy of Sclence and the Committee  for Friendship and Cultural Relations with Foreign  Countries have concluded agreements and take part  successfully fn annual programmes of collaboration  and exchange of scientific. and cultural representa-  tives with all similar ca jemies and scientific  institutions in sociris st countries. We have either  concluded agreement à or worked out joint study  plans with many othe * countries, such as Yugoslavia,  the United Arab Rep lfc, jraq, Indonesia, India,  France, etc., and ye, the wish of our Government to  widen these relations stirs no echo in Western  countries.
20.11 Time is too short for me to tell you about  the results of cultural activities in the People's  Republic of Bulgaria, and about the results of rela-  tions and exchanges in this field; it must suffice  to remind you of the great successes of our artists,  especially our singers, our orchestras, choral  societies and theatrical comparies, which have had  the opportunity of performing abroad, and even in  Western countries, Our recent exhibition in Paris  under the title "2,500 Years of Bulgarian Art" had  a great success, But although our Government gives  us all possible help we do not always meet with the  necessary understanding. For example, our great  composer Pipkov was refused a visa to attend the  meeting of the Executive Committee of the Interna.  tional Music Council in Paris (even though his works  are played in that city). We come up against other  difficulties, too, which we hope to be able to over-  come with Unesco's help. -
20.12 I have taken the liberty of giving you this  summary of the development of relations and  exchanges by the People's Republic of Bulgaria in  the fields of education, science and culture, in order  to show you that, because of the increasing progress  we are making every year in these fields, we feel a  great need to increase and expand our relations and  exchanges with foreign countries, Although our  relations and exchanges with socialist countries -  above all with the Soviet Union - are excellent, and  although such relations with neutral countries are  good and developing rapidly, the situation is differ-  ent where capitalist Western countries are con-  cerned. If we analyse the facts objectively, we find  that the political, economic, social and financial  causes of this situation are well enough known, But  tue documents which the Director-General and the  Secretariat of Unesco submitted to us for this  debate on a topic of general interest do not suifici-  ently stress these causes, and above all - and this  is a matter for regret - these basic causes are not,  in my opinion, analysed objectively and scientifically  and with a desire to use the means available to  Unesco of diminishing the effects of these causes,   XXII PLENARY  at least so far as relations, exchanges and co-operation  in education, science and culture are concerned. What  can this be but the result of preconceived ideas on the  part of capitalist countries about socialist countries -  lack of confidence, discrimiration, and the absence  of any real wish to co-operate in a spirit of peaceful  coexiatence? In other words, arc we not faced even  in the fields of education, sclence and culture, with  manifestetions or, at least, repercussions of the  cold war? .
20.13 And this in spite of the urgent necessity, in  the interests of mankind and of international co-  operation in education, scierice and culture, to estab-  lish the necessary climate of peaceful coexistence,  mutual esteem and common work for the ideals en-  shrined in the United Nations Charter, the Unesco  Constitution and those of the other Spéciallzed  Agencies, It is in this way that Unesco can fulfil its  basic mission and help the nations of the world to  live in lasting peace hj implementing the resolution  which has already been voted by the General Assembly  of the United Nations with a view to general and com-  plete disarmament.
20.14 So far as other obstacles are concerned -  technical, financial, administrative, customs, etc. -  they are generally well analysed in the Director-  General's report. But with regard to international  relations and exchanges in the fields of education,  science and culture, our delegation has a number of  remarks to make, although I shall confine myself to  cnly a few. The description of institutions, for ex-  ample, and the analysis of the activities of the  People's Republic of Bulgaria and other socialist  countries are, to say tle least, either incomplete  or fragmentary, and the conclusions are frequently  inexact or contrary to the facts. The Bulgarian  National Committee reserves the right to revert to  these points on another occasion.
20.15 I venture to make a few other remarks of a  general nature. ’ In the Director-General's report  and to some extent in Professor Auger's report, and  in the work of organizations affiliated to Unesco or  acting on its behalf (advisory councils, International  Council of Scientific Unions, conferences and symposia)  the word "international" is frequently used without  any relation to the facts. For example, in descrip-  tions and critical snalyses of the activities of various  countries in the fields of scientific co-opération and  scientific information, how can it be believed that  these analyses are objective and conform to the  requirements of scientific method, when it is plain  at once that the activities of the scientific institutions  of entire countries are left out of account? How, for  example, can the activities of the Academy of Sciences  of the People's Republic of Chine or of the German
374  MEETINGS  Academy of Sciences in Berlin be ignored, in spite  of their hundreds of great scientific institutes and  reviews covering every field of pure and applied  science? Or, in the field of scientific information  when we consider analytical reviews and summaries,  how is it possible to omit mention of such important  publications as the excellent "Zentralblätter" published  by the German Academy of Science in Berlin and  those issued by other publishers of the German  Democratic Republic, such as the "Chemisches  Zentralblatt" and the "Landwirtschaftliche und  Technische Zentralblatter' ? There are, of course,  other things which are lacking in Unesco publications  for the simple reason that the countries concerned  are not members of the Organization. Well, in my  opinion sclentific method should not include discrimina-  tion of this nature,
20,16 1 imagine that the General Confererce and  other organs of Unesco will 1nanage to conclude that  such a situation is secure from criticism. However,  now that the necessity for organizing scientific and  cultural life at a truly international scale is so urgent -  and the discussions we have had during the present  session, in the Working Party on trends of inquiry  in the natural sciences, and again today at this meet-  ing, give striking proof of it - I think that, in order  to achieve its proclaimed objectives, Unesco should  do everything possible to do away with the kind of  abnormal situation to which I have referred, and of  which I could quote further examples.
20.17 In conclusion, I will again emphasize that  Unesco is in a position to discharge its mission  more effectively and in conformity with the ideals  of its Constitution and through the methods appro-  priate to it, by making its contribution, which can  undoubtedly be a large one, towards ensuring  general and complete disarmament and peaceful co-  existence, thereby opening the way towards an  epoch of education and prosperity for all mankind.
21, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  We have heard 16 speakers today and 19 more  are down to speak tomorrow; In addition, three  delegations have asked to speak if possible - Guinea,  Cuba and Lebanon, I believe that, if tomorrow's  speakers will bear in mind the need to condense  their remarks and confine their comments to the  main subject of the debate we shall succeed in  getting through the list of speakers and leaving a  little time, if not for reaching conclusions at least  for comments on the opinions which have been ex-  pressed, The meeting is closed.  The meeting rose at 6,35 p.m.