8 December 1960, at 3,40 p.m,  President: Mr. Paulo E. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  CONTENTS  Discussion on International Relations and Exchanges in  Education, Science and Culture (continued). . .. ...  DISCUSSION ON INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND EXCHANGES  IN EDUCATION, SCIENCE AND CULTURE (continved)
1. The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe French):  I call upon H,E. Mr, Agustin Yahez, Head of the  Mexican delegation.
2,1 Mr. YANEZ (Mexico) (Translation from the  Spanish) : .  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Mexican  delegation considers the report now being debated an  excellent one, In connexion with this document, and  with special reference to the ends and means of  cultural exchanges, we have a number of comments to  make and certain points to stress which we believe  will be of help in achieving this Unesco objective,  "2.2 As regards especially the two dangers about  which so much has been said during the Conference,  we should like to urge that the determining factors in  cultural exchanges should not be political strength,  economic power or the unilateral interests or ego-  tistical calculations of Member States, but a fair and  objective assessment of the needs of the other Mem-  ber States.
2.3 To counteract this danger, and the danger of  Unesco becoming too bureaucratic, there is nothing  better than exchanges, by which I mainly mean  systematic and ever increasing contacts, with the  original sources and agents of education, science  and culture,
2.4 How can Unesco be vie to {ts destiny unless  it keeps in direct and regular contact with teachers,  who in turn will keep it informed of the exact feelings  of the children and young people, as well as of the  educational desires of the different peoples?
2.5 The care taken in securing the co-operation of  teachers, scientists, men of letters and artists can  never be too great. In all countries there are still  many more possibilities of increasing the number of  fellowships, Mexico's experience in this respect has  been satisfactory and it ie proposed to find larger  resources for encouraging exchanges of this type, as  well as exchanges in the form of travel by teachers,  research workers, writers and artists.
2.6 As regards technical assistance plans, may I  give our views in the words used by Mexico's Secre-  tary of State for Education, Mr. Jaime Torres Bodet,
392  who, when opening the courses in the applied social  sciences arranged under the Inter-American Pro-  gramme of Technical Assistance, said that "the  execution of such plans, is apt to come up against  many social obstacles and not a few psychological  reservations". -
2.7 "The experte appointed to carry them out",  Mr. Torres Bodet declared, "often come, because  of the high degree of speclalized training demanded  of them, from countries where wealth and an old  culture have accumulated considerable sources of  learning, Trained in higher institutes, wherethe  habits of certain privileged levels may Inculcate in  the student a one-sided view of the receptivity of the  less fortunate peoples, such experts are apt to regard  the mission entrusted to them as a simple experiment  in short or long-term material promotion.
2,8 They imagine that the communities whose  governments are enjoying their help are, for that  reason alone, interested in receiving them and that  they will immediately be accepted, without suspicion  and perhaps even criticism, by all members of those  communities, On occasions some of these experts  arrive as though they were the colonizers of a new  absolute government : the government of technocracy.
2.9 On arriving at the place assigned to them they  soon realize - if they are wise as well as expert -  that if the technical assistance is to bear fruit, those  providing it must not only have a mastery of the  specialization in which they graduated, but also re-  quire a knowledge of the human belngs without whose  collaboration their efforts will remain unavailing and  may even produce the opposite results, They then  understand that every technical assistance mission  needs the advice of an anthropologist with both  theoretical training and practical experience".
2.10 (In this connexion, I should like to mention  and restate the Mexican delegation's contention re-  garding the importance which Unesco should attach  to applied social anthropology.) .
2.11 "Progress is never achieved by mere technical  skill, let alone theory by itself, The action demanded  by progress implies a prerequisite: a desire to pro-  gress, So, to awaken that desire - the irreplaceable  ally of technical work - the experts, whether national  cr international, must be thoroughly acquainted with  the ethnic, physical, linguistic, and demographic   PLENARY  characteristics and the social psychology of the human  elements who are to be not merely the direct assist-  ants, but also the indispensable agents of their work  of renovation,
2,12 Accordingly just as in a co-ordinated building  - or rebuilding - plan the architect pays heed to the  advice of the town-planner, so we believe that in any  technical assistance plan the expert on agricultural  machinery, or electrification, or the organization of  craft work or the improvement of unhealthy areas,  or problems of teaching or the promotion of science,  must heed the advice of the anthropologist, If the  latter acts with integrity, modesty and simplicity,  his work will make it easier to arrive at a fair com-  parison of what we are and what millions of fellow  inhabitants of thls earth still are today,
2.13 Thanks to their social research the anthro-  pologists know that even in the most primitive circles  there is a human response which will listen and which  demands our respect, Through their studies they  daily acquire a clear awareness of the reciprocal  nature of our responsibilities and learn to place  greater trust in the solidarity of the human family  regardless of differences in customs, languages,  races and degrees of technical development,"
2.14 On the other hand, it fs Mexico's view that  artistic exchanges should unquestionably be given  tirst preference for purposes of world understanding,  That is because ar{, being fundamentally based on  feeling, speaks and makes its impact through the  channel of human sympathy. In the intellectual field  prejudices against ideas often build up difficult and  even insuperable barriers, whereas art, whose  universality is in direct relation to its national  essence, makes firm brothers of men through the  loftiness of sentiment and the higher, enduring forms  of culture.
2.15 Morals and light, demanded the eloquent  Bolivar In one of those succint and flashing phrases  of his ; science and conscience was the earlier’  advice of Pantagruel's genial doctor, Both phrases  well summarize the problem of culture in the second  half of à century so rich in conquests of the mind and
80 gravely threatened by one of those same conquests,  What we need is a culture capable of making us daily  stronger and more responsible so that we may daily  become freer and more human,
2,16 We live amidst the dangers of a troubled age.  The immensity of the needs requiring attention ex-  plains the zeal of the research workers in their  insistent search for new inventions with which to  extend man's mastery over matter. But, for all that  zeal, we cannot but recognize the imperious nature  of yet another requirement : that of culture, of an  intellectual, moral and emotional order to extend  man's mastery over himself,
2.17 We must therefore so direct the energies of  this Organization, which we have called the best hope  of the modern world, as to foster the development of  that culture through an education that will strengthen  the sense of national solldarity,.so that in every  student is the promise of a good citizen. And further-  more, in a world of so many and so frequent exchan-  ges, our educational processes must be based on a  broad and just understanding of international co-  existence so that every citizen may be and feel and  work like an integrated man.  MEETINGS XXV
3. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon Mr, Jean Basdevant of the French  delegation,
4,1 Mr. BASDEVANT (France) (Translation from  the French) : , :  Mr. President and delegates, thé French delega-  tion pays tribute to the'quality and value of the work  done by Unesco and its &dvisers in the field of inter-  national relations and exchanges in education, sicence  and culture, and would merely like to make a few  practical observations sucñ as, in our opinion, may  help our Organization in {ts task, The abundant  documentation vhich has betn collected and which  was essential for a proper appreciation of such a  complicated problem, will only bear fruit if it  enables us to formulate at once certain principles on  which the activities both of our organization and of  each Member State should be based,
4.2 The French delegation's first comment will ‘  deal with the Importance of education for the develop-  ment of international cultural exchanges. The reports  which have been submitted to us and which emphasize  the disparity between the resources of various groups  of countries and the unequal extent to which they  participate in international cultural relations, reflect  only the tragic deficit from which a large number of  nations, some of which have just achieved independ-  ence, are suffering, What would be the use of these  young States’ becoming sovereign and full members  of the concert of nations if the insufficiency of their  cultural equipment, which is perhaps even more  serious than imperfections in their administrative or  economic structure, prevented their peoples from  taking full advantage of such independence? By a  cruel irony of fate the continual adyances made in  communications and In particular in mass communica-  tion media, hy allowing these countries to compare  their situation to that of others and thus become more  fully aware of the difference, can only serve to  emphasize, in thelr own eyes, their wretched and  abandoned state.
4.3 - A most urgent task therefore is to use all our  . energy and resources in the cause of education in
393  countries in process of development. No matter  how interesting and necessary may be the perfecting  of cultural co-operation between countries which are  already developed, it counts for nothing in comparison  with this, not only political, but human duty? When  compared with this basic task, some of the polemical  arguments which have embarrassed our proceedings  appear out of place and useless, Rather than quarrel  about the good or bad effects of the past, rather than  waste time on endless discussions about the means to  be used, would it not be better to get on with the job,  all together and immediately? The task is sufficiently  vast for everyone to take a hand in it and the future is  exacting enough to satisfy the demands of all.
4.4  That,in any case,is the light in which France has  viewed its task for alongtime. Attimes when it could,  Hke others,devote its effortsto development within its  own frontiers - knowing well that many imperative  needs remain unsatisfied - Francehas progressively  establishedbeyond the seas and, more particularly over  the last hundred years inthe countries of Africa and Asia,  a network of primary and secondary schools and higher  educational institutes of a quite exceptional range.   xXxV
4.5 Although the requirements of schooling within  its own frontiers call for further efforts, on account  of the increase in the population over the last fifteen  years, France, lis at present maintaining outside her  frontiers 18,000 teachers and professors, all of  whom are partially or wholly paid out of the national  budget ; this represents an expenditure of 330,000,000  new francs, or 66,000,000 dollars every year.
4.6 1 doubt whether any other country is doing as  much, And even these figures cannot describe the  effort made over a number of years not only to ex-  tend this educational programme - school facilities  in the States of Africa and Madagascar have been  tripled over the last thirteen years ~ but also to  improve methods and efficiency, It is owing to  initiatives taken by French specielists and to ex-  periments carried out by them in various parts of  the world, particularly in the Arab countries and  Africa, in fundamental education and the techniques  of audio-visual teaching, that French apeclalists are  today in a position to make a vital contribution to  Unesco projects, and it is in that same bold spirit  that Gaston Berger drew up, just before he died, the  project which the Programme Commission has  unanimously adopted.
4.7 I do not cite these achievements in any spirit  of nationalist vainglory, nor in an attempt to justify  a work which is not denied by those who haye benefi-  ted from it, I merely want to emphasize that this  effort in terms of men and money has been accomplished  and is being pursued by France, often at the cost of  its own development and the requirements of its own  youth, France does this as a duty to a language, a  culture and an ideal of which it is the depository,  though not the sole depository. In addition to coun-  tries of Europe and America where French has for  centuries been the national language, there are today,  as has been strikingly demonstrated by the present  Conference, all those nations of Asia and Africa  which have found in the French language, not only  the means of access to a culture which attracts them,  but also - and perhaps above all - a means of com-  munication with their immediate neighbours, with the  rest of the world and with the century in which we  lve.
4,8 Before finishing with this point, may I be  allowed to add that the French view of cultural rela-  tions is not one-way, France gives, but it also wants  to receive, It devotes considerable material and  financial means to increasing its knowledge of lan-  guages and civilizations and to encouraging all ex-  pressions of foreign culture through books, museums,  the theatre, the film, sound broadcasting and tele-  vision. , Lo A
4.9 My second remark is linked closely with the  first, It is concerned with the most effective means  of developing exchanges and relations in education,  science and culture - in other words technical co-  operation, which may be defined as the help given by  one country to another in laying the foundations of its  development,
4.10 Here again, the balance-sheet of France's  activities is worthy of some attention. At present  more than 7,000 French administrators, technicians  and experts are in the service of foreign governments.  To this figure should be added the teachers of whom I  spoke just now and 10,300 French technical assistants  PLENARY
394  MEETINGS  who have been placed at the disposal of the African  and Malagasy States which have recently become  independent.
4,11 It is, however, the training of national staff  rather than the sending out of French experts which  we want to emphasize, This very year 2,000 forelgn  studenta, in addition to 8,106 students from French-  speaking Africa, have recelved financial aid from the  French Government in order to attend our universi-  ties. Further, 3,000 technical co-operation fellow-  ships have been granted for the teaching and advanced  training of young people for exercising administrative  or professional functions. These figures will be  further increased in 1961.
4,12 In this connexion, I should like to draw alten-  tion to the fact that France is probably the only coun-  try where, at the administrative level, questions of  technical assistance are dealt with by the same  department as cultural relations proper - which  clearly indicates the spirit in which we view such  assistance,
4.13 We consider that it is well to distinguish’  between, and so far as possible to separate, two  spheres which are essentially different : first,  material assistance in the form of credits, equip-  ment and services for the purpose of facilitating the  accomplishment of specific tasks which are considered  to be of the first importance for economic develop-  ment: second, human assistance by means of  education, training and advice with the afm of train-  ing staff and establishing the institutions necessary  to the life and prosperity of a modern nation.
4.14 We consider that the second type of assistance  is infinitely more important and more urgent than the  first. The men must be truined before money or  machinery are given. Qualified and experienced staff  is necessary if financial and economic aid is to be  used effectively, First-class technicians are not  enough; we must also have men capable of setting  up all the institutions which make the modern life  possible and which guarantee the liberty of the indivi-  dual. Only thus can assistance to young nations be a  real instrument of education, liberation and progress.
4.15 I would like to finish with a third remark con-  cerning the futility and danger of controversies about  whether assistance should be bilateral or multilateral.
4.18 Our aim is clear and urgent enough for the  only permissible criterion to be that of efficacy. It  seems lo me to matter little through which channels  our assistance is administered providing it is effec-  tive and fulfils requirements. If political or  economic circumstances make it preferable for there  to be co-operation between several countries for the  benefit of another, it is obvious that all of them should  agree to organize such assistance on a multilateral  basis, and we must be grateful to Unesco for providing  the means of putting this type of assistance into effect.
4.17 If, for historical or technical reasons or on  grounds of mere convenience, one particular country  seems to be better placed for supplying effective assist-  ance, why hesitate to resort tobilateral aid? The prob-  lem is less one of choosing between one form and the other  than of ensuring not only that there is no risk of the two  competing but that they combine together for the benefit  of the receiving countries. There would seemot be no  insurmontable difficulty about this nor anything to  merit such an expenditure of doctrinal subtleties.   PLENARY
4,18 Inthe same way, the French delegation con-  siders that Unesco ought resolutely to puraue the  alms laid down in its Constitution, For ours is the  only organization which is in a position to pursue  them on behalf of all of us in a world where solida-  rity Is now enforced upon us by technical uniformity,  Moreover, at a time when the United Nations is  assailed by highly complicated political problems,  it is more than ever essential that a Specialized  Agency such as Unesco should devote itself to the  task entrusted to it, without going beyond its terms  of reference, That is the best contribution it can  make to peace,
5. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon Mrs, Gerénima Pecson, a member of  the Executive Board, to speak on behalf of the Philip-  pine delegation.
6.1 Mrs, PECSON (Philippines):  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of  my Government 1 congratulate you all on your decision  to discuss a subject of such vital itnportance to Unesco  and mankind. 1 deeply appreciate this opportunity to  participate in the discussion,
6.2 Having had the privilege of collaborating active-  ly in the development of Unesco's programme during  the last decade, in addition to having taken positive  steps in its implementation, I strongly feel that an  assessment at this stage of its work on international  relations and exchanges in the fields of education,  science and culture, which are the sources of its  strength and sustenance, is not only desirable but  urgent, This need arises from the fact that the  Organization is fast growing in size and complexity  and the demands addressed to it from Member States  and non-governmental organizations are correspond-  ingly increasing in number and difficulty, Only a  dispassionate and searching evaluation of its work  will yield the information necessary for future adjust-  ment.
6.3 Winning Unesco's goals of human dignity and  fundamental freedoms rests four-square on the degree  and quality of its international relations and exchanges  in education, science and culture. For this reason,  Unesco, under its Constitution, is mandated to employ  all possible means "for the purposes of mutual under-  standing and a truer and more perfect knowledge of  each other's lives; to promote the free flow of ideas  by word and image; ... and to maintain, increase and  diffuse knowledge ... by encouraging co-operation  among the nations in all branches of intellectual  activity, including the international exchange of  persons active in the fields of education, science  and culture and the exchange of publications, objects  of artistic and scientific interest and other materials  of information; by initiating methods of international  co-operation calculated to give the people of all coun-  tries access to the printed and published materials  produced by any of them, . . "
6.4 A perusal of the various documents available  on the subject under consideration, in particular  E/3352 of the United Nations Economic and Social  Council and its Addendum, 11 C/17 and 11 C/PRG/11,  both of Unesco, is most enlightening and yields a  number of significant observations, some of which,  if you permit me, I mention as follows: (1) that
395  MEETINGS XXv  Unesco itself constitutes a great network of systems  of international relations and possesses the organiza-  tion as well as the channels for the development of  international scientific, educational and cultural  relations which are at present unmatched by any  other entity; as an intergovernmental organization,  it has the stability of authority to perform its task;
(2) that considerable progress has been achieved in  recent years in the fields under consideration;
(3) that, despite this fact the resources of Unesco,  particularly technological, scientific and institutional,  have not been fully exploited so as to secure the  maximum possible results; (4) that there still  exist barriers - human and natural, political and  ideological - that must be overcome, if not oblitera-  ted; (5) that certain means of communication and  methods of exchanges are more efficacious than  others; (6) that 45 per cent of the world's adult  population are illiterate, and are thercfore unable  to appreciate any form of literature or to acquire  knowledge of thelr own environment from the printed  page; (7) that 60 per cent of the world's population  are inadequately supplied with information media, in  the form of newspapers, radio and the cinema, to  enable them to be fully abreast of events at home and  abroad; (8) that educational levels will have to be  improved or elevated to ensure a supply of persons  intellectually equipped to handle scientific and other  information of a theoretical and abstract nature;
(9) that language is one of the major problems in  the domain of international relations and exchanges  which must be faced and overcome; and (10) that  there is a growing realization of the value of firat-  hand personal contacts in learning one another's ways  of living and working; and this being the case, that  increased action is needed in the matter of facilities  offered for educational, scientific and cultural travel,
6.5 As we all know, the current activities of Unesco  for the promotion of free flow of information are  grouped in five fields, namely : removal of tariff  and trade obstructions, free flow of publications,  wide use of telecommunications, development of  information media, and movement of persons.
6.6 The General Conference has adopted a number  of agreements, conventions and recommendations to  remove obstacles in the foregoing activities, among  them: (1) Agreement for facilitating the interna-  tional circulation of visual and auditory materials of  an educational character; (2) Agreement on the im-  portation of educational, scientific and cultural  materials; (3) Universal Copyright Convention;
(4) Convention concerning the exchange of official  publications and government documents between  States; and (5) Convention concerning international  exchange of publications.
6.7 From the picture I have triéd to give you, it is  not difficult to see the great and gratifying achieve-  ments already chalked up by Unesco, but the tasks  before it are also clear. The accelerated develop-  ment in recent years of means of communication,  coupled with unprecedented cultural interpenetration  among many nations and the multiplicity of human  wants in the face of rapidly advancing science and  technology, press the urgency of further exploiting  the opportunities, means and resources of Unesco,  the Member States and non-governmental organiza-  tions, to the end that the goals of international   XXV PLENARY  relations and exchanges may be attained. The inter-  action that would result from such further exploita-  tion would mean the enrichment of the cultures of  nations involved, on the basis of mutual benefit or  reciprocity, respect and dignity, Through technical  assistance, both bilateral and multilateral, further  efforts should be exerted to remove, or at least  minimize, the inequalities of economic development  in different areas of the world, More attention must  be given to the sharing of technical knowledge than to  {ts diffusion, and to the application of such knowledge  both to peaceful ends and to the improvement of the  atandard of living, so that full cultural participation  can be truly satisfying,
6.8 There is need for keeping the gates between  nations wide open go that the movement of cultural  workers and materials can be promoted effectively,  Unesco can do much here by further assisting and  urging Member States to take full advantage of the  provisions of existing international conventions,  agreemerts and recommendations, and to conclude  such bilateral and/or multilateral arrangements as  would facilitate exchanges in education, science and  culture, Frontier formalities might also be relaxed  further,
6.9 What kind of information should flow through  these open gates? I would stress here that the right  to information should include the word "correct".  Unesco can and should develop universal conscience  against incorrect or biased information, for it pro-  vokes wrong reactions which can have tragic con-  sequences for international amity and culture,
6.10 In the field of education, the Director-General  and the Secretariat deserve an accolade for the sur-  veys and massive programmes carried out for the  advancement of compulsory primary education.  Compulsory primary education is essential; it is  like ploughing the soil in which to sow the seeds of  further knowledge so that man may harvest the  maximum cultural benefits both for himself and  others. 1 would quickly add that, judging from  current events, it {as urgent that we pay more atten-  tion to education for international understanding.  Objectiveness in international relations should be  cultivated and, here again, exchanges play a decisive  rôle. I submit, Mr, President, that in the relations  of nations, as among individuals, justice and mutual  respect and cultural hartnony should reign.
6.11 Lastly, Mr, President, thére seems to be no  traffic in the high realms où the intellect, I refer to  the paucity of exchanges amohg the top philosophers  and thinkers of the world. I urye that they be asked to  exchange ideas at round-table dicrussions, or through  correspondence, and that the results he printed and  distributed widely, Small groups of from six to eight  at a time would perhaps be most convenient. There  is need for them to provoke, challenge and inspire  the intellectual curiosity and activity which is so vital  to cultural growth and solidarity.
6.12 Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, 1 have  given you a broad view of the conditions obtaining in  international relations and exchanges in education,  science and culture. I have also pointed out that,  although definite gaing have been made, there remains  a great deal to be done, Fortunately Unesco's dy- .  namism and vigorous leadership are equal to the task.  I have faith that success will in the end be won,  “  MEETINGS
7, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H.E, Mr. Luis Jordana de Pozas,  delegate of Spain,
8.1 Mr. JORDANA DE POZAS (Spain) (Translation  from the Spanish) :  Mr. President, fellow delegates, the Spanish  delegation considers that the Director-General's  {nitiative, in arranging this debate, an initiative  approved by the Executive Board, is to be commended,  The high level of the theme and of the various speeches  has renewed our confidence, which had been somewhat  shaken by other happenings preceding the Conference.
8.2 Nevertheless, the wording of the proposed  theme could give rise to a basic misunderstanding.  For the problems which Unesco has continually to  face are not so much those of international relations  proper, i.e, relations between sovereign States, as  they are of inter-cultural relations, It might, perhaps,  have been better to say so.
8.3 International relations are really nothing but an  expression of those public relations which have re-  cently been raised to the status of a science. The sole  purpose of a great part of international public law is  to regulate the form of such relations, regardless of  their content, Therefore, the truly singular feature  of such relations in Unesco's own field is not so much  what they are as the fact that they always signify a  relationship between countries belonging to a single  culture or to different cultures,
8.4 Culture only really begins when in it and through  it we can form a picture of the exemplary type of man  who understands the meaning of the world he is living  in and who also knows what it means to be a man in  this world, Only thus can Europe,-the Orient or other  particular areas be conceived as cultural bodies,  syntheses of living ideals, legal systems or religlous  prescriptions.
8.5 What is a culture? How many are there today  and which are they? What should be the choice be-  tween the aims of knowledge, mere coexistence,  struggle or integration or discussion? All these are  subjects which Unesco should study by its usual  methods, There is undoubtedly a certain desire to  merge all cultures into a single one embracing the  whole of mankind, just as one is entitled to dream  of a single language or of a single race resulting  from the systematic mingling of all those we now  know ; but these are Utopias or, at best, suchremote  possibilities as to have no bearing on our present de-  cisions. Moreover, there is-every reason to believe  that a diversity of cultures is a part of the divine plan.
8.6 The fundamental problem facing Unesco is, I  would stress, the possibility and the channelling of  discussions between the different existing cultures,  discussions which are only possible when each of  them accepts personal freedom in all its inexhaustible  possibilities and provided that none of them saps or  extinguishes the reality of such personal freedom,  And for such discussions it would be necessary to go  back to the original principle where all cultures meet,  to those "Mothers" of whom Goethe spoke in his Faust.  Our desires cannot be satisfied by the mere coexist-  ence of cultures. Only through discussion, which  presupposes open minds and individual freedom, can  the real work of our Organization be done,
8.7 The foregoing considerations, which time does
396   PLENARY  not permit me to develop, have an undoubted influence  on the subject we are debating. There is no point in  hastening without knowing where we are going, ror in  concerning ourselves with the immense variety of  practical questions while losing sight of the supreme  objective.
8.8 Another conelderation of a general nature is  that a prerequisite for the establishment and efficacy  of any international relations and exchanges is the  existence of favourable conditions, a propitious  atmosphere or climate, the creation of which is, to  some extent, suitable work for Unesco.
8.9 It would be a serious mistake to allow oneself  to be carried away by the Socratic conviction that  intellectual knowledge 1s a sufficient basis for mutual  understanding and esteem or, in more common terms,  that to know one another is to understand one another.  On the contrary, history shows us, today especially,  that all these intellectual ideas scattered throughout  the document on which our discussion today is based,  are not enough, The possession of modern languages,  a technical education, scientific documentation, ex-  changes of persons and many other things may un-  doubtedly serve the ends of culture; but they can  also be of use for other much baser purposes :  esplonage, black marketing, exploitation and the  white slave traffic, In short, not all existing means  of intellectual development are ends in themselves;  they are simply means for which a final end must be  found, And here that end can only be the changing of  attitudes of exclusivism and self-containment for one  of understanding and co-operation, Such a change  will not come about merely through knowledge ; it will  mainly be effected by love and justice. We must never  lose sight of this supreme requirement,
8.10 The magnitude and growing complexity of  cultural relations and exchanges have rightly been  pointed out. On this I have nothing to add to the  Director-General's report and the excellent com-  ments of the Executive Board. Every State can find  adequate proof of this in its own experience. I could  quote the experience of my own country, Spain, as  an example and refer to the eight Spanish cultural  institutes in Europe and the forty-three which it main-  tains in America; its schools and reading rooms on  nearly every continent and its cultural offices attached  to nearly all embassies; the fact that we were the  second country to set up, in 1921, special services  for cultural relations with foreign countries; the  foundation of such establishments as the Instituto de  Cultura Hispânica and the Consejo Superior de Inves-  tigaciones Cientfficas; and, finally, as regards co-  ordination, the fact that it has been entrusted to such  an Important body as the Directorate of Cultural  Affairs.
8.11 But a point of extraordinary interest in this  complex of relations and increasingly intensive ex-  changes is the orbit within which they start and are  maintained. For although in many cases such relations  may be world wide and embrace all peoples, the  normal thing is for only a certain number of nations  to have relations at the same time for specific mat-  ters. With that I should like to refer to the problem  of the region in international relations and exchanges.
8.12 The difficulty of the region as a concept stems  mainly from the variely of meanings given to it and  from the fact that the concept is constantly changing.
8.13 When speaking of a region, we often specifi-  cally or tacitly refer to a geographical area and apply  it to neighbouring countries which form part of a  continent, sub-continent or achipelago, We sincerely  believe that it would be an extremely dangerous thing  for this geographical concept of the region and of the  relations and exchanges established within its bounds  to prevail in Unesco,
8.14 It is universally recognized that countries  forming part of the same continent have completely  separate, or even çpposed, cultures and Interests.  On the other hand, other countries separated by  oceans and mountains may form authentic human  communities with identical cultural bases that  encourage close relations and intensive exchanges,
8.15 Nor can racu, if one can speak of race today,  be used to characterize the term region for purposes  of Unesco, Moreover, to do so would be to set  Unesco in opposition to one of its noblest tasks  that of ending racial discrimination. How could we  possibily condemn discrimination in others if we  ourselves practised it.
8.16 Thus, fellow delegates, the framework for  the relations and exchanges with which we are con-  cerned must be, mainly if not entirely, the cultural  region, Language, tradition, customs, a common  conception of the world and things, feelings of brother-  hood and mutual understanding and esteem, these are  the factors which determine a cultural region,
8.17 But, as already indicated, there must be no  question of drawing a single, permanent, final re-  glonal division, For one thing, history is perpetually  in the making ; for another, the level of the class of  knowledge or aims pursued necessarily eliminates  some countries and adds others, or creates high-level  cultural zones which thus bring together nations from  other quite separate motives.
8.18 In any case, any work carried out in connexion  with this subject must be based on the reality of  cultural regions in order to correct an apparently  growing tendency to think of the reglon in terms of  physical geography.
8.19 The Inequalities of national participation  pointed out In the report are an unquestionable fact  and are one of the greatest obstacles to the relations  and exchanges with which we are dealing. Only toa  very minor extent are their causes to be found in  Unesco's field of action.
8.20 Nevertheless, our programme should, perhaps,  make some provision whereby, in certain cases, the  conclusion of some of the international conventions  and agreements sponsored by Unesco would be suf-  ficient reason for granting assistance to countries  which, despite goodwill, do not have the means to  fulfil the obligations they have gladly accepted. An  example is the exchange of information, documenta-  tion, publications, etc., which is only possible with  means and an organjzation that presuppose an economic  effort which is not always viable.
8.21 What is necessary, and thjs has our full eup-  port, is that I'nesco should intensify its already great  and commendable efforts to eliminate certain obstacles  to international relations and exchanges, particularly  in regard to mailing facilities, frontier formalities  and other similar obstacles.
8.22 The effectiveness of what has already heen  achieved is frequently balked by ignorance on the part   XXV  of the public, including officials in other departments,  or the contents of the conventions and agreements  signed by their own country. We suggest that the  governments of Member States be recommended to  take special care to make such facilities known and  to give instructions to the departments concerned,
80 that what today appears to be the complete excep-  tion can become the normal practice. Such useful  measures as the Unesco Coupon system would gain  even more in effectiveness if they were accompanied  by information on the mailing rates for books, scien-  tific equipment and other materials hard to come by  in far off countries.
8.23 There is at present a notorious lack of co-  ordination in the various fields of international rela-  tions and exchanges, Above all, co-ordination must  be established within every Member State by entrust-  ing it to bodies specially set up for the purpose. It  would, for example, be of value if Unesco were to  collect and issue information as a guide to countries  which have not yet set up such services and, in par-  ticular, were to recommend the creation of such  services. Secondly, the co-ordination which we  preach to others must become an accomplished fact  in our own Organization, and for this reason we  support the proposal contained in paragraphs 46 and
4'7 of document 11 C/17.
8.24 In this connexion we can already point to the  value of periodical contacts between Unesco and the  cultural relations services operating in Member  States. It was, In fact, ôn the initiative of Spain,  approved at the eighth session of the General Confer-  ence, that the First Conference of Directors of  Cultural Relations was held in Paris in 1954 and was  followed by others at which documents of great inter-  est to the present subject were drafted.
8.25 Thought should also be given to the question  of extending co-ordination to the field of international  non-governmental organizations. There has lately  been discernihlà a marked {rend towards the prolifer-  ation of this type of organization, with no advantage  as regards the work accomplished and with consequent  difficulties in respect of their relations with Unesco  and among themselves, Although the matter is a  delicate one, we believe that it would be worth trying  to establish criteria which would discourage the  multiplication of these otherwise necessary institu-  tions - not of those concerned with cultural aims but  of the various other types. .
8.28 Of all the subjects mentioned in the report  now being considered there is perhaps none of greater  novelty and interest than the one referring to the  need for reciprocity in international relations. It  is perfectly true that, as pointed out, there isa  tendency to divide nations into two not merely  separate but almost opposing groups: one consisting  of nations which, thanks to their wealth and techno-  logical development, have more resources, person-  nel and material than they need, the second of others  which, in what is, perhaps, a rather unfortunate ex-  pression, form the category of the insufficiently  developed,
8.27 1 call it an unhappy expression, because no  country is completely developed and there are many  countries which are sufficiently developed in one  ‘particular line or sphere. To begin with, the classi-  fication is inexact, because between those two classes
398  PLENARY MEETINGS  there is yet another consisting of nations with & high  cultural level but a poor economy, Bul, even more  serious, it produces the opposite results to those  intended, since it causes disillusion among the great  nations and a feeling of inferiority and resentment  among the small ones; and because it is at the root  of what the assisted nations might dub neo-colonialisin  and the assisting ones ingratitude. The whole edifice  of technical assistance, so laboriously put together,  is thus seriously endangered.
8.28 The basic mistake was probably due to the  fact that such relations were built up almost ex-  clusively on strictly technical needs, with a con-  sequent neglect of the much fuller and fundamental  range of other types of knowledge, such as those  pertaining to the philosophical, moral and social  sciences and the arts. A second reason for the  defects and danger to which we refer is to be found  in the selection and training of the persons charged  with the work of technical assistance,
8.29 Looked at in this way, the remedies suggest  themselves, Above all, international relations and  the exchanges and programmes in which they are  given practical shape must be expanded to include  these other questions of philosophy and the pure and  soclal sciences, as well as the Immanse field of art  in ali its varlous forms, Then, as regards the  personal side, an effort must be made to eradicate  much of the prejudice regarding the geographical  origin of the experts, not only in the matter of their  technical training but also as regards their kinship  in feeling and culture with the countries to which  they go, The ideal would be gradually to entrust  this task to men belonging to the country which is to  receive the assistance, their training being given in  ad hoc inatitutions set up either inside the country  or abroad.
8.30 We would also suggest that greater attention  be given to the possibility of exchanging all manner  of objects which could be of interest for teaching or  scientific purposes. Many countries abound in  specific types of works of art or works of nature or  archaeology which, on the other hand, are lacking  or very rare in other countries, To Ynote a few  examples, I need only refer to countries whichabound  in ancient pottery, in archaeological remains, in  paintings - not exactly first class, but second class  and in any case very interestitig - in sculptures of the  same type, in works of craftsmanship and, from  other points of view, in the variety of fauna and flore  of the highest educational interest. Many other  examples could be given.
8.31 As regards legal instruments, we should like  Unesco to intensify its efforts to induce as many  Member States as possible to adhere to and ratify the  conventions and recommendations drawn up here, It  is really shocking to compare the number of Member  States of our Organization with the number of those  which have ratified such important agreements as  the Copyright and Exchange of Publications Conven-  tions. .
8.37 Despite the kindness of our President, to whom  I should like to pay a tribute of gratitude in which I  think we all join, it is our duty to keep within the  time-limits laid down for speeches, I shall therefore  end now.
8,33 Every country has a raison d'être, a certain   PLENARY  "ethos", a constitutional ideal, 80 to speak, which  may take one of two forms : it may either be con-  centric, centripetal, introvert or, on the other hand,  excentric, centrifugal, extrovert. Spain has always  belonged to the second type and, although this is not  only a high honour but also carries with it a heavy  responsibility, I should like to say here that anything  leading to the extension and intensification of cultural  relations between peoples will always obtain our  support.
9. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 call upon H. E, Dr. Walker, Head of the  Australian delegation.
10.1 Mr. WALKER (Australia) :  Mr. President, fellow delegates, the subject  under discussion {8 indeed an enormous one ; itis  enormous as measured either by the quantity of  documentation or by the range of the debate to which  we have been listening. I would like to congratulate  the Secretariat on its voluminous but excellent report,  and also the experts and the Executive Board on the  important observations that they have added to that  report,
10.2 The Australian delegation agrees that this is  the time for some stock-taking of the work that is  being carried on by this Organization and by others  in the field of international exchanges in education,  science and culture, Whether a discussion such as  this in the plenary session is best calculated to lead  to any firm conclusions is perhaps questionable,  Perhaps all that we can do, Mr, President, is to sow  ideas in the course of a general discussion suchas this,  and to hope that these ideas will be taken up by the  Director-General and the Executive Board and by the  Economic and Social Couneil in their further considera-  tion of this matter. In my modest contributiontothis  discussion, I wishto deal briefly with two main points.  First, 1 will offer afew comments on international ex-  changes in education, science and culture, from the  Australian point of view, as a country remote from the  great centres of political power, industrial strength and  cultural and scientific advance, Secondly, I shall offer  some suggestions asto where emphasis should be  placed hy Unescointhe future work in this field.
10.3 [I have said that Australia ts a country remote  from the great centres of political power, of industrial  strength and cultural and scientific advance, at any  rate through recent centuries, Australia's own  history is a relatively short one - the first settlers  arrived in Australia in 1788. In those early stages  and throughout the greater part of our national history,  Australia has been very dependent in thé educational,  scientific and cultural field on what we could receive  from other countries in the way of assistance -  assistance in the form of persons of experience and  special qualifications in their own field, assistance  in the form of education for those of our yoiing people  who went abroad to further their own studies. When  ‘he first Australian universities were established, we  naturally turned to Great Britain to supply the first  teachers and to assist in the planning, The arms of  the University of Sydney, our oldest university com-  bine the arms of the Universities of Oxford and  Cambridge, and the motto is "mens eadem, sidere  mutato" or "the same mind under a different sky".
399  MEETINGS XXv  In fact, in the early development of the Australian  universities it was not only Oxford and Cambridge  that played a great part but also the great Scottish  universities sent professors to Australia. And |  throughout the years we have found it necessary to  send many young people abroad, particularly to the  United Kingdom but also to other countries, for part  of their training once they had completed their earlier  studies. Not very long ago it was almost impossible  for a young man to get a permanent teaching appoint-  ment in an Australian university if he had not com-  pleted post-graduate studies overseas, And we in  Australia are grateful for all the assistance that we  have had throughout our development from other  countries that have contributed to our education, the  development of our acientific resources and the ap-  plication of science to our productive activities and to  the development of our continent, While our cultural  links have naturally been closest with the United  Kingdom, 1 would also like to pay tribute to what we  have received in the way of assistance from other  countries and perhaps, particularly at this meeting  in Paris, I might refer to the generous grant of  scholarships that we have enjoyed over the years in  so far as the teaching of the French language is con-  cerned, The general level of French teaching in  Australian universities owes very much to the large  number of young Australian professors who have had  their advanced training in the great universities of  France, Other European countries have assisted us  in similar ways.
10.4 But there has been a dramatic transformation  in the Australian scene and in the Australian position  in relation to international exchanges, particularly  since the Second World War, Whereas in the past we  have had to look outward - although over the years  we have been building up our own systems of educa-  tion, our own scientific institutes and our own cultural  life - in recent years we have found it possible to  contribute to meeting the needs of other countries.  And so, as I remarked in the debate on the Director-  General's report, you will find many foreign students  in Australian schools, colleges and universities today.  Some 6,000 students from Asia alone are now studying  in Australian universities, colleges and schools,  About half of these are actually in universities, so  that the proportion of Asfan students in Australian  universities is a very significant one. ’
10.5 People from other countries are turning to  Australia for assistance in many fields, sometimes  through scholarships provided by the Australian  Government, very often on a private or individual  basis where the people themselves from other coun-  tring bear the main costs involved.
10.6 Who would have thought, even twenty years  ago, that young men from Asia and.Africa would be  coming to Australia for training, not only in such  subjects as agriculture and pastoral pursuits that  are well knowntohave been prominent inthe Australian  economy, but even for training as civil servants and  diplomats. At present,of the group of young men who  areintheir first year of training in our own diplomatic  service in Australia, more than a quarter are not  Australians at all,but are young men from Asia and  Africa who have cometo Australia by arrangements  with our Government to gain experience and be initiated  into the earlier stages of a diplomatic career,   xxv PLENARY
10.7 And so, too, in the field of science : whereas,  over a long period, Aust>alla was benefiting prima-  rily from the advice of scientists from overseaa and  sending its young scientists overseas for training,  nowadays we find ourselves in a position to contribute  and to help meet requests from other countries. I am  glad to say also that the range - the gecgraphical  range - of this co-operation is being broadéned.  Under the auspices of the United Nations or of one or  other of the Specialized Agencies, Australians have  undertaken scientific missions to Latin America, to  Chile, Uruguay, Ecuador and Argentina concerned  with animal husbandry and animal disease control,  to Central America - El Salvador and Venezuela -  for animal husbandry,. marketing of primary pro-  ducts and food hygiene, and to Bolivia for animal  husbandry. Australian scientists have gone to South  East Asia, particularly, although by no means solely,  for work in connexion with animal disease control ;  to India and Pakistan, also, to advise for instance,  on the preparation of wool for market.
10.8 There has been no ideological limitation on  this sort of exchange as far as Australia is concerned.  Last year a Soviet delegation of scientists in the field  of animal disease and wool production visited Australia,  and this year, at the invitation of the Soviet Government,  a group of Australian veterinarians and wool growers  have visited the Soviet Union to study methods of sheep  raising and wool production within the Soviet Union.  Such exchanges reflect matters of common interest  between our respective countries,
10.9 Thus, the picture has changed and, today,  while we still continue to profit enormously from  studies conducted by our young people overseas and  by visits from scientific experts and advisers, at the  same time this fs a true exchange. I would like to  say for the record how much this hus meant to  Australia, not only in terms of a positive contribu-  tion to our own economic and cultural development,  but 1 believe also that it has undoubtedly contributed  to the quality of our national life and to our capacity  for international understanding. The thousands of  young Aslan students who study in Australia today are  welcomed into the homes of Australian families, and  I think that when the time comes for them to return  to their own countries they carry back with them the  memory of an informal and friendly society where  they have been made very much at home. We believe  that this is contributing to building an important  bridge between the Australian people and the peoples  of Asia.
10.10 Our experience also illustrates that it is no  longer sufficient to think in terms of countries that  give and countries that receive, of countries that  make sacrifices end countries that benefit. No,  Mr. President, this is a two-way traffic. It is a  matter of mutual benefit, a matter of co-operation  from which both sides benefit.
10.11 The second point to which I wish to address  myself, fellow delegates, is the question of Unesco's  own activities in this field. The whole question of  international exchanges, of people and ideas, of  publications and information looms’ very large in  Unesco's purpose and functions. But it is not, of  course, in any way a monopoly of Unesco; there  are other international organizations, fortunately,  that are active in this field, and the far greater part
400  MEETINGS  of exchanges today are carried on throughout the  world on a bilateral basis, with governmentls playing  some part, and on a private and individual basis in a  less organizéd way, 1 think ! have just three obrerva-  tions to make on this general question of Unesco's  contribution in this field. Firstly, I believe that the  malin task of Unesco is to encourage and to assist  and where necessary, of course, to supplement  government and private activities in the field of  exchanges. Not, Mr. President, to attempt to  regiment them, perhaps not even to attempt to co-  ordinate them too much, Co-ordination is a word  we hear very often nowadays, and 1 would not say  that we were opposed to co-ordination, but let us  not have co-ordination for the sake of co-ordination.  If waste can Le avoided by comparing plans and  avolding overlapping, well and good, but in the  domain of international exchanges in science, educa-  tion and culture the important thing is to maintain the  impetus,
10,12 It is quite evident that in the great world of  science, the most important exchanges are under-  taken in terms of gcience and very often on an in-  dividual basis. Science is a very difficult thing to  regiment or control. Much of the work of Unesco has  been carried on through rion-governmental organiza-  tions by assisting international scientific organiza-  tions which are not governmental bodies at all, but  which needed assistance particularly in the early  post-war years. It has been our object in Unesco  to maintain and develop the republic of letters and  of science rather than to attempt to direct their  development, And just as that applies to science,  it also applies to culture.
10.13 The second observation, Mr, President,  fellow delegates, isin relationto the question of where  Unesco should concentrate its efforts. In our view,  Unesco should concentrate mainly inthe fields where  exchanges otherwise would beless well deviloped,  It hag been remarkedinthe reports before us that the  current of exchanges haa naturally been strongest and  most developed in Eurupe and North America, for very  obvious reasons. Thereisthe factor of distance, there  isthe factor of wealth,andthereisthe factor of the  development actually attained already inthe fields of  education, science and culture. Where else than in  Europe or North America, for instance, could one hope  to see organizedthe sort of magnificent exhibition of  painting that no doubt many delegates have had the oppor-  tunity of visiting during their stay in Paris, the magnifi-  cent exhibition - the Sources of the Twentieth Century.
10.14 But from these great centrés channels have  been developed and it is rather striking that the  cultural channels reaching out into the more remote  parts of the world have very often tended to follow  established political links ahd established economic  links, This is apparent in Africa and it has been  apparent also in Asia and in other parts of the world,  This is not necessarily a bad thing; jt has permitted  a more intensive cultural development in some of  these parts of the world than would have been possible  had they been subjected to the confusing and complex  impact of the whole of the modern Western world at  one time, But it would, of course, be a grave  obstacle to the future development of the world and  its culture, if these old established channels were to  be rigidly maintained in the future. The time has   PLENARY  come for closer relations between regions which  themselves are remote from the old established  centres of political and industrial power and of ad-  vanced scientific and cultural development.
10.15 Ia this way there will be a progressive en-  richment of the world's culture, and very often coun-  tries which are distant from the world's centres have  much to learn from each other, as well as from the  great centres. And thirdly, Unesco's experience  already shows that there are very great direct  benefits from these internatinnal exchanges, benefits  to the progress and development of the individual  countries, to the development of their economic life  and the struggle agalrist poverty, and to the enrich-  ment of the life of the ordinary citizen. But we must  never lose sight of the other aspect of these exchan-  ges, the contribution that they can make to the build-  ing of a world community through a world-wide spirit  of community based on the realization that all men  are brothérs,
11,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I should like to thank Dr, Walker, who has taken  part in Unesco's work since 1946, for this excellent  speech of his on what international exchanges and  collaboration can achieve in a comparatively short  space of time, ,
11.2 I call upon H.E, Mr. Kiselev, Head of the  delegation of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Re-  public.
12.1 Mr. KISELEV (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic) (Translation from the Russian) :  Mr. President and fellow delegates, it is fitting  that the question of international relations and ex-  changes in education, science and culture should be  discussed at a plenary meeting at the Unesco General  Conference, We are firmly convinced that the devel-  opment of cultural relations and international ex-  changes by every possible means is a powerful  weapon at Unesco's command in its fight for peace  and mutual understanding.
12.2 In the opinion of the delegation of the Byelo-  russian SSR, it would be wrong to consider any aspect  of Unesco's work in isolation from the problem of  peace - the most burning question of our time. And  this fact needs to be stressed more than ever today,  wher, deepite the succersful efforts of the peace-  loving countries to preserve peace, the threat of  another world war still hangs over us.
12,3 A new war, if it is not averted, may bring  with it unprecedented destruction, reducing the  greatest centres of world culture to rubble and bring-  ing suffering ard death to hundreds of millions of  people,
12,4 It is common knowledge that the theory of  racial superiority, as it is called - a theory which  constitutes the ideological preparation for revanchism  and war - is finding currency in a number of West  European countries. The facts show that the forces  of reaction in certain imperialist countries are -  trying to use the press, the cinema, radio, televi-  sion and even the schools to instil in young people  the spirit of racial superiority, chauvinism and  fascism,
12.5 In the capitalist countries of the West, more  and more gangster films and books are being produced
401  MEETINGS xxv  which extol fascism and the cult of war thus exerting  a perniclous effect on the young. Indeed attempts are  often made to disseminate such productions as aform  of cultural exchange.
12.6 It ig Unesco's duty to denounce not only the  theory of racial superiority but also the practice,  adopted by some countries, of using international  cultural relailons for the purposes of propagating  raclallsm, revanchism and hatred of mankind,  Unesco's duty is to use international cultural rela-  tions to propagate ideas of peace, friendship and  humanism, with a view to the mutual enrichment of  culture and the creation of an abundance of cultural  wealth for all peoples.
12.7 We speak of peace and unceasingly strive to  preserve it, for we know what war is like. The  Soviet people loves and deeply churishes life, and  sees before it the glorious prospect of building a  new and radiant communist society, the most equi-  table society in the world. The Soviet people is  doing all in its power to consolidate peace and inter-  national co-operation, and Unesco should make ex-  tensive use of {ts efforts,
12.8 . Our people regards the cultural achievements  of all nations, large and small, with keen Interest  and profound respect, and values their contributions  to the general stock of world culture,
12.9 . Thanks to the application of Lenin's national  policy in the Soviet Union, the Byelorussian people  - like all the peoples which make up our multi-national  country on the basis of equality - has been able, ina  short space of time, to achieve tremendous successes  in the development of education, science and culture,
12,10 The Byelorussian people now lives and works  as sovereign master on its own free soll, withachools,  institutes, books, filme, theatres, television, mu-  seums, cultural centres, clubs and libraries to  satisfy its intellectual needs,
12.11 The total production of books by the Republic's  publishing houses in 1960 alone will exceed 16 million,  or two per head, as against only one for every 25  people in pre-Soviet days.
12,12 The Government of the Byelorussian SSR  gives generous financial support to cultural activities  both in town and country. One-half of the Republic's  budget goes for social and cultural activities, The  successes of the Byelorussian people in the develop-  ment of education, science and culture are proof of  the tremendous strength of the Soviet Socialist system,  which has opened up infinite horizons for the all-round  progress and prosperity of the Socialist nations in  general.
12.13 The Byelorussian Republic, as a sovereign  Soviet Socialist State, conducts extensive cultural  exchanges in education, science and culture,
12.14 Byelorussian scientists play an active part  in the work of the major international conferences  and congresses, Every year we attend international  gatherings on educational questions such as the meet- -  ings of the Executive Committee of the International  . Bureau of Education, we send the Bureau copies of  our school textbooks, books on teaching methods,  photo-exhibitions and other essential material.
12.18 The higher educational estaklishments in  the Republic maintain close relations with educa-  tional establishments in the people's riemocracies  and a number of capitalist countries, and among   XXV  those attending them are students from Poland, the  People's Republic of China, the Korean People's  Democratic Republic and other countries.
12,16 Byelorussian teachers and students have  visited France, the United Kingdom and other coun-  tries to perfect their knowledge of foreign languages,  while teachers from our neighbour, the Polish People's  Republic, come to the Byelorussian SSR every year  to engage in specialized studies in Byelorussian lan-  guage and philology. Foreign delegations to Byelo-  russia often include educational workers, who take a  close interest in the organization of public education  in our Republic, In particular, we have received  visits from delegation: of leading educational workers  from the United States of America (headed by Mr.  Derthick), Chile, Yugoslavia and other countries  which inspected schools, technicums, institutes and  other educational establishments, and familiarized  themselves in detail with their work,
12,17 The system of teaching children in our coun-  try - and indeed the whole system of educating young  people - is rooted in the principles of friendship and  humanism and of deep respect for the achievements  of world science and culture, The study of foreign  languages and the history of the literature and art of  foreign countries is compulsory in all schools.
12.18 We have an extensive network of evening  "cultural universities" where workers of all ages  and professions can enlarge their knowledge of  world culture free of charge.
12.19 International exchanges also take the form  of the exchange of books on art and science, peri-  odic¢als, tape-recordings, films and filmstrips, the  organization of exhibitions, festivals, visits of  delegations to other countries and the establishment  of personal contacts.
12,20 Byelorussian audiences have given an enthusi-  astic reception to the Italian conductor Carlo Zetti,  the song and dance company of the Korean People's  Army, the Finnish ballerina Else Silverstenson, the  All-Negro "Columbia" ensemble, the great United  States pianists Van Cliburn and Byron Janis and the  famous Australian violinist Beryl Kimber, and to the  numerous art exhibitions and exhibitions of books  and photographs held in our Republic,
12,21 Representatives of Byelorussian art and  literature have visited Belgium, the United Kingdom,  Finland, Rumania, Austria, Bulgaria, Poland and  many other foreign countries. =
12,22 Cultural co-operation algo takes the form of  special days and weeks organized in Byelorussia to  publicize the cultural achievements of other lands,  similar steps being taken in other countries to  familiarize the public with Byelorussia's cultural  achievements. Fxhibitions are presented during  these special weeks to illustrate the economic and  cultural advances of the country concerned, music  and film festivals are held, meetings with foreign  workers arranged, literary evenings and concerts  staged and the members of the public assisted by  these and other means to gain a deeper insight into  thé work and life of other peoples.
12.23 As one of the ways of strengthening interna-  tional friendship and understanding, the Byelorussian  SSR during the past few years, has published upwards  of 100 books by foreign authors in editions totalling  about four million copies, Plays by French, English,  PLENARY MEETINGS  German, Chinese, Polish and Greek dramatists are  produced in Byelorussian on the Byelorussian stage,  and performances of the music of many nations are  given in our concert halls, As for the works pro-  duced by Byelorussian writers, artists and com-  posers, they are permeated with the ideas of friend-  ship and respect for all nations. The bust of the  great Indian poet Rabindranath Tagore, produced  with masterly skill and loving touch by the Byelo-  russian sculptor Azgur, People's Artist, is a case  in point,
12,24 The Byelorussian SSR has a clear object in  mind in encouraging such international relations -  the strengthening of international co-operation and  friendship, the mutual enrichment of national cultures  * and the enlargement of the great store of world
402  culture by the addition of fresh treasures.
12,25 Our delegation recommends that Unesco use  the wide experience of cultural construction garnered  by all the republics of the Soviet Union in order to  help those nations in need of it,
12,26 When we say that ¢ne of the main objects of  international cultural co-operation is the mutual  enrichment of national cultures, we must remember  that & process of national cultural revival and upsurge  is at present taking place in a number of countries  that have been frced from the colonial yoke, Colo-  nialism halted the cultural development of these  countries, and in some instances destroyed national  cultural values, as is evident from Unesco documents  and from what the representatives of the African coun-  tries have sald, It should be one of Unesco's primary  tasks to provide these countries with effective assist-  ance in promoting their national cultures,
12.27 We hold that a thorough knowledge of the  major cultural achievements of other peoples en-  riches national culture and promotes mutual under-  standing and in’ jrnational peace, Unesco, in its  activities, should take into account the diversity of  cultural forms so that exchanges in education, science  and culture can be developed between all countries  regardless of their social and economic systems,  This task is especially urgent now that many coun-  tries which were once under the colonial yoke have  attained political independence and are in a position  to develop their national culture,
12,28 Colonialism is the worst enemy of national  culture, For centuries it has trodden underfoot,  crushed and stifled the original national culture of  a hoat of African and Eastern peoples,
12,29 Unesco should concentrate its efforts on  organizing the large-scale exchange of experience  and achievements in the field of culture so as to pro-  mote peace and peaceful co-operation between differ-  ent nations, It should strive, by effective action, to  help the African nations to preserve, develop and  extend African culture, and similarly with the culture  of the peoples of the East.
12.30 Our delegation considers that this effective  action by Unesco to preserve, develop and extendthe  culture of the African countries should include a  campaign against illiteracy and the development of  instruction in the mother tongue at all levels. It would  be useful, in this connexion, to convene a world con-  ference in 1961 on the campaign against illiteracy so  that experivnce may be exchanged and a broad pro-  gramme for Unesco's anti-illiteracy drive drawn up.   PLENARY
12.31 A proposal has been made from this rostrum  that centres should be set up in Africa to study various  educational problems and especially - as part of the  problem of development of national languages - that  of the use of the vernacular as the language of instruc-  tion, This proposal deserves full support, Unesco  should take account of the fact that the economically  underdeveloped peoples possess great cultural wealth,  particularly in the field of national folklore, which  the ferocious colonial system wes unable to destroy.
12.32 On the subject of cultural exchanges and the  mutual enrichment of national cultures, we must  once again express our profound regret at the ab-  gence from Unesco of the lawfui representatives of  the Chinese People's Republic and other Socialist  countries which are still not included among the  Organization's members. Can we seriously speak  of carrying out the East-West Major Project when  a major world State - a country with a highly devel-  oped culture - 1& excluded from Unesco?
12,33 The Director-General and the Secretariat  should increase thelr efforts to strengthen and ex-  tend contacts with the National Commissions of the  Member States and to communicate their working  experience to other countries in furtherance of inter-  national exchanges in education, science and culture.
12.34 It is clear, from the present discussion,  gentlemen, that all the Member States hope that  Unesco,by making the necessary effort, will be able  to develop into an useful instrument for international  co-operation so that the ideas of peace and humanism  may prevail,
13. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon Mrs, Sabattini de Barén Biza, to speak  on behalf of the delegation of the Argentine Republic.
14.1 Mrs, de BARON BIZA (Argentina) (Transla-  tion from the Spanish) :  Mr, President, fellow delegates, the delegation  of Argentina does not propose in this address to cover  all the subjects which might concern and should be  included in a full analysis of international relations  and exchanges, Instead, we should like to make clear  our attitude on specific aspects which are of particu-  lar interest to us as an integral part of the family of  nations,
14.2 In the first place Argentina wishes to draw  attention to the significance of the creation of an  international body to deal specifically with education,  science and culture and to which all member coun-  tries of the United Nations would belong, This meant,  in effect, giving international legal standing to a  phenomenon which has become increasingly marked  in recent years : international cultural exchanges,  using the word culture in its broadest sense.
14.3 Although the history of civilization teaches us  that the influence of the great cultures of Fast and  West extended over vast and specific areas, that  influence developed through indirect channels during  conquest : the union of ruling houses, {rade and other  forms of expansion, Today cultures get together by  themselves, which is the same as saying that culture  is carried by research workers, technicians,artists,  teachers and all who are convinced that international  relations should fundamentally be based on a com-  plete knowledge of peoples and on contacts between  them. :
14.4 From this we may infer that the international  organization concerned with education, sclence and  culture will daily continue to grow in importance,  provided that it sticks to its own field of activity and  leaves to other international bodies those specific  matters within their jurisdiction.
14,5 That is why Argentina, as a member of  Unesco, is anxious to keep to an invariable rule,  believing that politics should be referred to the  relevant international body, Thus by our criterion,  Unesco should ignore any problem unconnected with  education, science or culture, To do otherwise would  be not merely inopportune but a duplication of the  work of other bodies and would condemn Unesco to  premature extinction,
14.6 Argentina has emerged from a period of  relative isolation imposed upon it by internal con-  ditions; now that these have been overcome, it is  anxious to maintain its enthusiasm for international  relations in the field of education, science and  culture. The body responsible for such work in my  country, the Argentine National Commission for  Unesco, with headquarters at the Ministry of Educa-  tion, has just completed two years of work carried  out by governmental and non-governmental institu-  tions. In each province we are delegating sub-  commissions which carry the work of Unesco  throughout the length and breadth of the 1,084,120  square miles of which our homeland consists.
14.7 In all our embassies abroad we are now build-  ing up, as delegations of our country, the services  of the Cultural Attaché departments, which come  under the Directorate of Cultural Relations of the  Foreign Ministry,
14,8 We stress this because we belleve that the  work of Cultural Attachés is bound to be of increasing  importance, We therefore hope that a general study  will be made of appropriate methods of increasing  the effectiveness of the work carried out by such  cultural delegations abroad.
14.9 We have been pleased to note a constant in-  crease in Government expenditure on cultural rela-  tions, the budget of the Ministry concerned being  augmented by contributions from other ministries,  as happens with the British Council, or from private  sources. In spite of our international information  organizations, the whole of Latin America has major  problems to overcome in advancing its International  relations, problems mainly arising from the special  economic conditions and the difficulty of communica-  tions within the huge continent of America.
14.10 Generally speaking, the normal media for  disseminating news and information operate unham-  pered, as the statistics submitted to Unesco show,  though they need supplementing in order to reach  the whole population, .
14.11 In 1957, 129 books were published in  Argentina for every million inhabitants. In South  America the daily papers have a circulation of 74  coples for every thousand inhabitants, I would add as  a point of interest that "El Correo" (The Courier),  the official Unesco publication, has more than
12,000 subscribers in Argentina. This is more than  ‘the number of copies read in many European coun-  tries and in the United States.
14.12 As regards the application of the interna-  tional agreements concluded in the last hundred years   XXV PLENARY MEETINGS  in the fields of education, science and culture, the  important thing is not so much the criteria which  govern their purpose and pattern as the fact that the  specific task of each of them is to give and toreceive.  The principal thing is te ensure that such conventions  are put Jhto practice and do not remain dead letters.
14.13 Our country is now studying the possibility.  of undertaking, by means of regional agreements,  joint action in the dissemination of news and exchan-  ges of cultural activities between other countries  faced with the same problems,
14,14 One of the most effective means of communi-  cation between countries and one which promotes  international solidarity in the field with which we are  concerned is the system of fellowships and the send-  ing of experts to establish contacts between two or  more nations. Those who go away to study or who  come to teach establish very fruitful intercourse  between the various national cultures,
14,15 According to the 1959-1960 statistics, 49%  of all fellowships are offered by Governments, 14%  by international organizations, 21% by universities  and other institutes and 16% by private bodies. The  highest percentages are in the applied sciences,  particularly medicine, This shows the intense  cultural effort made by many countries, an effort in  which Argentina aspires to join and to increase as  the full potential of her resources is realized.
14,16 Latin America possesees two focal centres  for bringing nations closer together, which cannot be  omitted from this list: (1) CREFAL, the Regional  Fundamental Education Centre for Latin America,  set up at Patzcuaro to foster the educational and  cultural development of the indigenous communities  by improving the living conditions of 30 million Indians  inhabiting America.
14.17 Although Argentina itself is spared this prob-  lem, it shares the concern of so many South American  countries at the intellectual and material level of their  communities.
14.18 (2) The Unesco Regional Office in the Western  Hemisphere, with headquarters in Havana acts as a  kind of sounding box in the field of international rela-  tions, by promoting the work of the National Commis-  slong, co-ordinating the activities of the Major Pro-  ject on the Extension and Improvement of Primary  Education in Latin America and stimulating cultural  work,
14.19 The Bulletin of the Major Project, published  by the Regional Office, does effective work in bring-  ing together the countries of Latin America. It would  therefore be worth translating into other languages,
50 that the experience gained through the Major Pro-  ject on the Extension and Improvement of Primary  Education could serve as an example for other coun-  tries, particularly those of Africa and Asia which are  today facing very similar problems.
14.20 At the same time CREFAL 1s also a notable  instance of co-operation between governments and  between such international organizations as the  Organization of American States, the United Nations,  the International Labour Organisation, the World  Health Organization, the United Nations Food and  Agriculture Organization and Unesco.
14.21 In our country languages used to be taught  "in the secondary schools and universities; since the  beginning of 1960 they have been taught in primary
404  schools as well, Our institutions of higher education  take in more than 10,000 foreign students each year,  and the number is constantly growing. In Argentina  education is free at all levels. In primary schools,  textbooks and working instruments are also provided  free in many cases, Advantage was taken of a semi-  nar, held in Tucuman this year, on the “Standarciza-  tion and Comparability of Educational Statistics" to  unify terms, to link, co-ordinate and compare  statistics - the basis of all educational, soclal and  economie development - and to improve techniques  and specialized organizations,
14.22 The census conducted throughout America  this year will provide us with data for future planning  and will enable us to adapt means to needs,
14.23 We believe that it would be of interest for  Unesco to act as the co-ordinating body for all the  educational, scientific and cultural activities of every  Member State. It would therefore be worth recom-  mending that all countries centralize their data on  such activities, so that Unesco could from time to  time prepare an exhaustive repertory of information  and demands accurately appraised and arranged in  strict order of priority,
14.24 It is gratifying to note the attention given by  the General Conference at this session to such topics  as the Project on the Extension of Primary Education  which are of crucial and immediate importance to  many countries that wish to play a worthy part in  contemporary history.
14.25 In conclusion, I should like to express our  gratitude for the high degree of co-operation accorded  our initiatives and, once again, to pay tribute to the  unanimous desire of delegates to achieve a cordial  and loyal coexistence based on education, science  and culture,
15. The PRESIDENT (Translation/romthe French) :  I call upon Mr. MacEwan, delegate of Canada,
16,1 Mr, MacEWAN (Canada) :  Mr. President, honourable delegates, the Canadian  delegation would like first to congratulate the Director-  General on his proposal that a subject of general  interest should be discussed in the plenary session,  with the object of clarifying existing policies and  perhaps formulating new ones, The consideration of  a specific problem in this manner is a new departure  and we welcome the idea because we feel that if an  objective examination is made of one aspect at a  time of Unesco's programme it will not only consti-  tute an assessment of the programme itself, but will  also relate it to the changing circumstances of recent  times, This would not mean an appraisal of the kind  made in 1958, but a re-examination to ensure that  each major aspect is in keeping with the basic aims  and philosophy of the Organization,
16.2 Unless we take a long and deep look at the  programmes we have, where we are going, what can  be done, and moreover, what should be done with the  limited resources at our disposal; we shall fail  dismally in our attempts to achieve the purposes of  - Unesco, For unless we do take time out to take stock  of ourselves, as it were, we shall find that we are  engaging in a multiplicity of activities with the very  real denger of dissipating much needed resources and  so diminishing the effectiveness of this Organization,   PLENARY
16,3 For this reason, Mr. President, we welcome  the Director-General's initiation of this discussion,  We have heard many speakers from the various coun-  tries, we know that the discussion has been a fuil one  and we hope it will be a beginning towards the greater  goal of total reassessment. Certainly the subject  chosen for this debate has many implications for  Unesco - it is not only an interesting but an extremely  difficult question, Therefore just such a debate is  needed in order to afford some measure of clarifica-  tion of a subject which appears to be conducive to  woolly or muddled thinking, My delegation shares  the opinion of many delegations that this question of  international relations and exchanges in education,  science and culture is in essence the "raison d'être"  of Unesco, Every part of its programme works  towards this goal, exchanges of ideas, exchanges  of cultural information, exchanges of techniques,  exchanges of experts, exchanges of scientific data,  and exchanges of all forms of information through all  possible media in the fields of education, science and  culture.
16.4 We whole-heartedly support in principle this  programme of international exchange, because ‘Anter-  national understanding, which is the goal of the Organi-  zation, will only be achieved if Unesco is, in truth,  an instrument of international exchange, However,  we must stop to assess what exactly is being done,  Such an examination should first make it abundantly  clear that every part of our programme must be in  keeping with the basic philosophy and aime of Unesco,  If there is any part which does not meet this criterion  then it should be abandoned forthwith, Ye may take  a concrete example in the Exchange of Persons pro-  gramme : it is not, nor should it be the aim of  Unesco to promote exchanges simply for the sake of  exchange, The underlying philosophy of Unesco in  this instance is, rightly, to work through appropriate  organizations and voluntary bodies té promote and  stimulate interest in the exchange of a ‘certain type  of person, one who not only benefits personally from  seminars and study tours abroad but who will through  his work and influence in his community, bo able to  use the experiences gained in such a way as to con-  tribute to the improvement of international ¢o-opera-  tion, If the programme does not achieve this, then  ita existence cannot be justified.
16.5 As for the programme and its possibilities,  it {a indeed laudable and has tremendous potentialitica,  Nevertheless, we are painfully aware that the needs  are of a phenomenal magnitude. Unesco cai not do  everything for everybody in 1961 or in 1962 5r even  in the programmes of ten or twenty biennia, Fortu-  nately Unesco is not alone, there are other ‘agencies  in the United Nations family that are concerñed with  exchanges, and we must all work in harmony so that  the maximum results are achieved with minimum ex-  penditure of talent, time and money. To achieve the  most effective results in terms of Unesco's aims it  is essential that each agency direct and limit its  attention to those matters with which it ie best quali-  fied to deal, and that each keep in step with what is  being done by the others, In many countries of the  world large numbers of the population sre starving,  diseased and illiterate. It is clear that first things  must come first, and, in consequence, Unesco must  act with the greatest restraint to keep pace with the
405  MEETINGS xXV  programme in economics and soclology, and not ex-  ceed it. Exchanges of professional anthropologists  may indeed be necessary; exchanges of scientific  data, valuable; or exchanges of bibliographical  material, advantageous; but, under certain cir-  cumstances, some of these must wait while priority  is given where the urgence is greatest, We would  request the Director-General to keep this in mind  when he prepares, as envisaged in paragraph 2,  Economic and Social Council resolution 803, "the  principles to serve as gulding lines for bilateral;  regional and international action regarding relations  and exchanges in the field of education, science and  culture",
16.6 Mr. President, we might make reference also  to two other matters connected with this topic. Firstly,  we take it as a fundamental principle that Unesco  should use, to the greatest possible extent, the exiat-  ing non-governmental organizations. Their contribu-  tion has been great and they are ready to do more,  Secondly with regard to the collection and preparation  of information for Unesco, it is time perhaps to de-  termine whether or not a principle might be established  in this matter, That is to say, Unesco, before request-  ing Member States to undertake urgent tasks of gather-  ing and reporting information, should be quite certain  that the work entailed is justified. The ultimate ob-  jective in view must be such as to warrant the time  and energy needed to submit the required information.  Unesco Headquarters should not become a giant de-  pository of unread, unused reports,
16,7 1 coaoclude with the hope that this experiment  in self-examination may be followed again at the next  Conference, but perhaps a topic of more restricted  proportion might be considered. It occurred to me,  for instance, that in 1962 we might consider a topic  which would be both challenging and stimulating, and  which at the same time is in need of review and  perhaps also the development of a sense of direction,  "education", a word that has been used many times  during this session, In view of Unesco's mandate  and of recent developments, we wonder if it might  not be useful to undertake a study of the whole philo-  sophy of Unesco's policy and operations in this field,  An assessment in this extremely important segment  of Uneaco's programme could be very rewarding.  Once we establish a definite philosophy as to what  should be considered as Unesco's rôle in education,  once we clearly delineate the problems involved and  establish a workable system on a long-term besis,  then and only then shall we be lil a position better to  perform the true function of Un¢sco as it pertains to  one part at least of the magnificent aim of promoting  peace through education, sciente and culture.
16.8 Mr, President, my country whole-heartedly  supports the underlying philostiphy df the Unesco pro-  gramme of international exchange. Our own contribu-  tion has not been inconsequential - I need only refer -  here to our National Research Council and the Canada  Council's programmes which supplement a great  variety of important non-governmental activities.  However, the time of this debate is too limited to  allow a detailed description of Canada's rôle in this  field.
16.9 Finally, Sir, we look forward with all Member  States to the day when international exchanges will  bring about the necessary community of spirit of  i   XXv PLENAR  which mankind stands in such desperate need and  towards which we steadily advance day by day - the  kind of co-operation practised in this Organization  and all other Agencies of this great family of the  United Nations.  The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe French):
18.1 Mr, DUMITRESCU (Rumania) (Translation  from the French) : Mr. President and delegates,  now that the present Conference is drawing to a close  and we are preparing to break up after a lengthy and  intense period of work, the debate devoted to inter-  national exchanges in education, science and culture  allows us to glance back, assess the work accom-  plished and draw lessons from it for future use, -
18.2 Taking one thing with another, the balance-  sheet is a positive one, and the work which Unesco  will have to pursue in order to carry out the projects  voted for at our meetings will bear fruit which all  men of goodwill throughout the world will appreciate  at their true worth, The Rumanian delegation ap-  proves all the constructive proposals that have been  submitted; and will certainly make a valuable con-  tribution to the cause of co-operation and understand-  ing between the peoples, We particularly appreciate  the contribution made by the representatives of the  many countries of Africa and other parts of the world  which have recently attained independence and have  brought with them the refreshing wind of change which  is blowing today throughout the world and in the minds  of men.
18.3 My country's Government pays a great deal of  attention to cultural relations, which, in our opinion,  are an integral part of the policy of peaceful co-  existence - the only realistic policy today. Since the  last meeting of the Unesco General Conference,  Rumania hag considerably extended her relations and  personal exchanges in the various fields of culture  and science, At the present time it maintains cultural  and scientific relations with more than 60 countries;  in the case of 20 of these, relations are based on  agreements or official exchange programmes, More  than 1,000 foreign students from more than 40 coun-  tries are studying in Rumanian universities; these  include students from countries of Africa, Asia and  Latin America and most of them are holders of  Rumanian State scholarships, Rumanian students  are following courses in foreign universities in  European countries, such as the Soviet Union and  France, in the countries of Asta (India and China),  in the Middle East (Cairo, for example), and in the  United States of America.
18.4 Ruraania is a member of more than 170 inter-  national cultural and scientific organizations, This  year alone about 5,000 Rumanian intellectuals,  artiats and scientists attended cultural and scientific  meetinge abroad, while an equal number of foreign  scientists and intellectuals visited our country.  Nevertheless, we are convinced that cultural and  scientific relations can and must be still further  intensified in the interest of peace and co-operation  between peoples,
18.5 Before making a few suggestions in the light  of the recommendations of document 11 C/17, allow  Le  Y
406  MEETINGS  me to submit a few criticisms, which need stating  if our Organization {8 to avoid certain errors and be  guided along its proper course towards the aims for  which it was created.
18.6 First of all I want to say that dismissal of the  disarmament problem - in flagrant contradiction both  with the recommendations we received from the  United Nations and with the very spirit of our Organi-  zation - was one of the errors committed during this  session. Paragraph 5 of document 11 C/17 recalls,  inter alia, the express desire of the Economic and  Social Council that the General Conference should  draw up during its eleventh session ‘certain funda-  mental considerations with a view to guiding the  action of the Director-General and the Executive  Board'' - and I might add the action of all National  Commissions and non-governmental organizations -  "during the preparatory period", |
18.7 How can we work in the cause of education,  sclence and culture if the world remains armed?  The ancients used to say that the Muses were silent  amid the clash of arms. That same silence will  haunt all activities deployed for culture, if men's  minds are the prey to fears of a possible war and  are dominated by propaganda made by certain mono-  polistic circles, Unless there is a genuine desire to  snatch the weapons from the hands of those who might  use them against their brothers, education, science  and culture will remain inanimate spectres. It must  be understood that disarmament and peaceful co-  existence are the very basis of our activities and  that those who work against such ideas transgress  the very aims of our Organization.
18.8 Unesco, in our opinion, should make full use  of all the means at {ts disposal with a view not only  to combating aggressiveness in men's minds but also  to taking active steps to put disarmament into effect.
1 do not need to point out the vast possibilities which  disarmament would create in the field of cultural,  scientific and other relations. It is only by solving  this problem that Unesco would cease to be the poor  relation of the United Nations which she is at present.  That is why I consider it absolutely necessary that  the Conference should insist on Unesco's activities  being guided along these lines.
18.8 I would also like to say a word about the rôle  of experts and non-governmental organizations with  regard to the spirit in which our work should be  pursued, In the opinion of our delegation, it is not  the experts, non-governmental organizations, etc.  which ought to decide Unesco's activities, but the  contrary, Otherwise Unesco may well become a  victim of technicality and political short-sightedness,  as may be seen from the regrettable ehortcomings of  the Proposed Programme end Budget, which we are  called upon to examine and vote for by the light of the  great events which occurred in the world just before  the present session. I refer to the bankruptcy of  colonialism and the achlevement of liberty and in-  dependence by numerous States of Africa and Asla;  these are scarcely reflected at all in the assessment  of the programme.
18.10 Thus it was that problems connected ‘with them  were sometimes the subject of insufficiently prepared  debates or of projects introduced on the very eve of  the opening of the session. A more careful study of  the means to be used for liquidating once and for all   PLENARY MEETINGS  the consequences of colonialism should, therefore,  become one of the essential concerns of our Organi-  zation, even before the twelfth session of the Generel  Conference,
18.11 It appears to me that we have devoted too  little thought to improving co-operation between  National Commissions for Unesco, In most cases  these Commissions remain isolated and have not  discovered how to allow others to benefit from the  results obtained in their respective countries in the  fields of education, science and culture. Take, for  example, the problem of illiteracy, which has oc-  cupied some of our meetings, This question has  been completely solved in the Socialist States; I  think that countries where ignorance still exists would  have every interest in knowing what means the  Socialist countries have used in order to eliminate  this scourge and what results have been achieved.
18.12 But I am bound to observe that, in the main,  co-operation between Socialist and Capitalist States  in the fields of education, science and. culture is  avoided, and that it is perhaps not the general opinion  that efforts should be made to abolish mutual distrust  and to correct certain surviving prejudices, "Yet thle  is one of the aims which our Organization should set  itself for the immediate future.
18,13 The Rumanian delegation has also at times  deplored a lack of co-ordination between the work of  the Secretariat and that of certain affiliated scientific  organizations, Since so much has been sald about  education, why have wa not set the International  Bureau of Education to work on the problems with  which we are concerned? If we had relied on the ex-  perience and preparatory studies of that Bureau, our  resolutions would have contained more body and been  more precise,
18.14 Instead of there being a reasonable division of  labour between the organs at Unesco's disposal, certain  bodies such as the Programme Commission have been  overloaded and have had to give an opinion on widely  different problems and take improvised decisions. I  believe that one requirement of which we have become  aware during the nresent session is that of increasing  the number of commissions and working parties so  that they can take decisions on the basis of a fuller  knowledge of the problems submitted to them,
18.15 These, Mr, President, are the few remarks  which 1thought 1 might make at this advanced stage of  our proceedings, I have made them in all sincerity  and with the desire to see, in the future, an improve-  ment in our work, on which the eyes of the world are  turned as one of the sources from which humanity  hopes for peace, mutual understanding and emulation  by the peoples, and the social and intellectual advance-  ment of all mankind.
19. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) :  I call upon Professor Arnold Bergstraesser,  delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany.
20.1 Mr. BERGSTRAESSER (Federal Republic of  Germany) :  Mr. President, fellow delegates, towards the end  of such a prolonged debate, one of the last speakers  cannot hope to contribute anything cubstantially new.  Nor should I like to esk you to give your attention too  long to general observations about Unesco, since I
407  XXv  have learned from this discussion that in regard to  the principles to which Unesco is devoted we are  rather unanimous, although we may, once in a while,  undersiand the same words quite differently, To my  mind, in this present hour of world history, co-  operation in the fields of education, science and  culture, the goal of Unesco and its practical ex-  perience, play a considerable part, - And I wonder  whether the work of Unesco might not be furthered  if we were to give special weight to the fact that for  the first time in history we are technically able to  meet and consider insues in common.
20.2 We have been witnesses, throughout these  weeks, of an international encounter which has been  made possible by the very foundation of Unesco, and  this encounter goes far beyond bilateral or multi-  lateral exchanges, It is an encounter of global scope  and I think this is very significant. 1am convinced  that even the National Commissions for Unesco, in  each one of the countries which we have the honour  and the pleasure to represent, has a particular duty  to meet with this point of view in mind, Unesco should  have an increasing repercussion on the national scene  of each of these delegations. and I think that foremost  among the tasks of the National Comnilssions should  be that of watching public opinion in the respective  countries in regard to the basic issue at stake for  Unesco and all its Member States. I would even go  so far as to recommend the continuous criticism of  national legislation from the point of view which is  to be the centre of Unesco's efforts.
20.3 This, as I-have said, is an hour of history in  which, for the first time in the development of mankind  we are technically able to meet and to considèr issues  in common, to exchange criticism and to offer and  work out creative suggestions, If we consider the  work of Unesco as a model of mutual help and co-  operative common action we are grateful enough,  even though, at the same time, we ask what are tho  next steps to be considered, and are therefore bound  tohit uponthe shortcomings of which 1 am sure the  Director-General, the Secretariat and also the delega-  tions are aware. What would Unesco be, were the  dissensions in the world of today not to make them-  selves felt in these rooms? The world of the Twentieth  century 1s unique in the history of mankind in that  political issues, wherever they arise, form anintegral  part of one network of world affairs. For the first  time, we sons and daughters of the Twentieth century  experience world history in the literal sense of this  term, and this hour is unique ir that for the first  time no single nation can any more afford to neglect  the sorrows, the difficulties, the needs - political,  economic and cultural - of any other nation. None of  these sorrows and needs are alien to its own future,  even to itr own ultimate destiny, this is the unique  characieriatic of this century. We are confronted in  the most serious fashion with the question whether or  not we shall be able to put our technological, intel-  lectual and spiritual resources into the service of  man, or let us say, of humanity, or whether we shall  permit these resources to be turned against humanity,
20.4 Whoever has lived through a General Confer-  ence of Unesco and listened sensitively, will under-  stand the ¢hallenge to this Organization expressed by  the question, "Are we going to be able to put politics  into the service of the civilization of man, or shall   xxv  we permit short-sighted political considerations to  dominate civilization and put into their service the  potentialities of civilization?" :
20.5 If we are aware of the momentous character  of this present hour of history, we may discover that  the term "international exchanges", as we discuss it  today, has a very far-reaching significance. This is  an age of international exchanges; three or four  decades ago it was not modern, it was exceptional and  outatanding to think of international exchanges, The  time we live in is still an age of nationalism, although  the age of nationalism - and this also is characteristic  of the second part of the century - has gone, it belongs  to the past even if there are still people who do not  yet know it. Nationalism is a contagious disease  which never allows one nationalism to remain alone  but necessarily arouses a counter-nationalism. And  nationalism prevents the one who is obsessed by it  from experiencing the reality of the world, a world  which, as we have seen and could have learned, is  destined to promote the art of living together with  others, Nationalism is but one of the forms of self-  centredness which make us blind to other human beings,  other nations, other social and cultural systems, It  is one of the forms of egotism blocking the road to  co-operation. And I think we should welcome the new  nations entering the community in that they have the  chance -of being spared, from the outset, the error  of believing that "my country, right or wrong" or  "right or wrong, my conception of world history",  are statements capable of leading us anywl.ere into  the future,
20.6 These new nations are entering a world which  through bitter experience was forced to strive for  understanding and co-operation, And I! am sure they  will learn how to distinguish among their fellow  nations those who are reliable and convincing part-  ners in the common development of mankind, from  others who may be merely verbally expressing them-  selves in favour of international purpose. I hopethat  these new nations will, with us, take part in an inter-  national movement towards the disarmament of the  spirit which may be a precondition of military dis-  armament. .
20.7 But we ask these questions in order to find  out whether anything can be done by Unesco. In an  attempt to use this international intercourse con-  structively and towards a common purpose, and to  help us to listen to each other with more and more  understanding and to renounce our preconceived  ideas and even more our prejudices, I would like to  point out some possibilities for common work,  Wherever Unesco has tried this route, Unesco has  been successful, In widening the horizon of each  participant, in proving by experience that any kind  of assistance - technical or organizational - if  granted with an open mind is bound to be a two-way  partnership, it may bring to the one who is asked  for help, more education and productive enlighten-  ment than perhaps to the one who is to be helped.  Many svggestione for such common work have been  made during this debate. May I add a few more,  which when thought oùt properly may constitute a  further step, may contribute to mecting the challenge  of the hour? This hour in which one technological  civilization begins to spread over the whole world  and in which, at the same time, the multitude of
408  PLENARY MEETINGS  nations with their different ways of living find them-  selves compelled increasingly to seek means of im-  proving mutual understanding and of living together  in pursuit of their common cause,
20.8 These proposals which I permit myself to  make are very simple in that they merely try to  render topical some of the efforts of international  exchange, {Inesco has taken a momentous step in  furthering the very foundations of education all over  the world, and rightly so. The future of all else  would be hupeless without free and equal access to  education, which paves the road to the civilization  of the human being, However, in listening to our  debate, I wonder whether a few seemingly modest  steps towards the improvement of our mutual under-  standing might not be feasible, For example, might  not international working parties, selected from  among the nations and civilizations represented at  Unesco, tackle with an open, though philosophical  mind, some of the great cultural issues of today?  The first of the topics I wish to suggest is the question  whether our view of our own age, our interpretation  of this particular moment of history is alike, or should  be investigated in order to find out the basic differ-  ences of our interpretation,
20,9 Certainly this picture is allke in regard to the  most obvious phenomena of the surface, the differ-  ences would be brought out if this diagnosis of our  time could constitute the central topic of an interna-  tional encounter, which I think could he useful and  productive for the future of Unesco's work. A com-  mon effort, well prepared, and a diagrosis of our  time is, it seems to me, indispensable to our future  work and at the same time promises to be of great  assistancé to every participant nation,
20.10 Secondly, all of us need to impart to our own  educational systems the art of growing up and of living  before a world horizon, You see that I take it seriously  when I say that this is a momentous hour in the history  of mankind, an hour in which the Isolation of minds  and the isolation of education has proven, and is  further to prove, its incapacity to cope with the  isgues facing mankind in the Twentieth century. But
1 am much less sure, and 1 suppose most of us are,  when the question arises of how to do this, how to  impart to our educational systems the world horizon  we need in this present hour - in an age whichdemands  specialization, in an age which maintains and even  develops national cultures - and should do so within  the limits reasonable, within the limits acknowledged  and recognized in view of the proper perspectives in  which national culture has a legitimate role to play,  The question of how to impart the reality of the world  horizon of culture to the young generations cannot be  solved so long as nations remain isolated from each  other and we must encourage and invent a common  start in the direction of solving this problem,
20.11 And thirdly and lastly, on this road of com-  mon work, we arrive finally at certain variations  which are basic to quite a few misunderstandings in  the present-day world, differences in man's com-  prehension of himself. Some of them are really  fundamental to our difficulties in understanding each  other and in paving the way towards co-operative  partnership, But at the same time the biological,  anthropological, sociological and humanistic sciences  of today master a field of knowledge concerning man   PLENARY MEETINGS XXv  as well as man's comprehension of himself - a field  of knowledge which is much wider and much richer  than it ever was before. ,
20.12 I suggest that someday a working party of  Unesco be encouraged to undertake a comparative  study of man's comprehension of himself in the  present-day world, Perhaps such a study, remote  as it seems at a first glance from the demands of  the day, might grow into a most helpful and effective  contribution to the one goal which is before us - to  enhancing the respect of the human being, the human  being as a creature destined to conduct his own life  maturely. And perhaps such a study could help us  to translate this basic respect of mari into terms of  daily conduct and international cultural relations and,  indeed, ultimately, of international politics also.
21,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  We shall resume this debate on Monday morning,  and 1 would ask you to agree that the meeting should  start at 10 a.m, :
21,2 Professor Marcel Florkin, delegate of  Belgium, will be followed by the delegates of Guinea,  Cuba and Lebanon, We shall then try, not to make a  summary of this series of speeches, but to bring out  certain viewpoints and perhaps certain differences  and contrasts which were noted during the aebate.  Without claiming at the moment to know what the  Director-General and his staff will be undertaking  in the next few months, I should like us to be able to  separate at the end of the present proceedings with  the feeling of having made an effective contribution  to Unesco's future plans. The meeting is closed.  The meeting rose at 6. 45 p.m.