7 December 1860, at 10.45 a.m.  President: Mr. Paulo E. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  CONTENTS  Discussion on international relations and exchanges in edu-  cation, science and culture . .  DISCUSSION ON INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND EXCHANGES  IN EDUCATION, SCIENCE ANT CULTURE
1.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  The President of the General Conference has  asked me to take the chalr'at this discussion on  international relations and exchanges in the fields of  education, science and culture. This discussion is  planned to last two days, It is open to all those  speakers who have applied and whose names are  listed in the Conference Journal, Two other delega-  tions have applied since the publication of this list:  the delegations of Bulgaria and Mddagascar. We  hope to be able to call on them to speak,
1.2 To help you understand the spirit of this dis-  cussion, I call on the Director-General who will  outline the considerations which led him to choose  this subject for discussion.
2.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL (Translation from  the French):  Mr. President, ladles’ and gentlemen, 1 would  just like to say a few words to Introduce this dis-  cussion, the broad lines of which will be explained  in a moment by Mr. Jean Thomas, Since I myself  took the initiative of proposing something which is  new to the work of the General Conference, I feel I  should tell you what considerations and reasons  impelled me to make that suggestion.
2.2 On thé one hand, I believe that, no matter what  the circumstances, one particular feeling has always  emerged from sessions of the General Conference:  a feeling that the representatives of Uneacois  Member States would have greatly benefited by the  opportunity to discuss a general topic lying outsidé  the proposed programme and budget for the next two  years and outside the immediaté directives for the  following years’- a feeling that such discussion and  exchange of views ‘conducted at a high level would  have shown to the leaders and members of delegations  that we are well aware of the céntral issues which  form the very basia of the Orgaiitzition’ s work.
2.3 On the other hand, when | made this suggestion,  which the Executive Board a¢cepted and supported  and which the General Committee of the Conference  then approved, the exact topic for discussion had to  - be chosen. A great many topics vere possible: the  Le
344  general subject of education, of science and, more  particularly, the great survey that has been carried  out at the svggestion of the United Nations General  Assembly and of the Australian delegation to the  General Conference, But when the Economic and  Social Council entrusted Unesco with the preparation  of a report on the study of international relations and  exchanges in the flelds of education, science and  culture, I felt - and here again I was supported by  the Executive Board - that this subject formed, as it  were, the keystone, the backcloth, the truly general  basis of all Unesco activity. For this was a matier  of bringing together and combining several methods  and techniques of international relations and exchanges  of the greatest importance to all Unescô's work.
2.4 Additionally, the Economic and Social Council  on receiving our report asked us to consider care-  fully the possibility of laying down principles which  might govern this vast field of action in the future.
2.5 That ie why, apart from what the Conference  may be called on to decide in the way of concrete  activities in this fleld as a result of this survey,  which appears in the Proposed Programme and Budget  for 1961-1952 under consideration by the Programme  Commission, the preaent discussion is of vital  importance in that it will enable the Executive Board,  the Director-General and the Secrétariat to take what  is said here as a pattern when the time comes to  Araw up the principles to be applied in the field which  the Economie and Sccial Council has entrusted to us.
2.6 This discussion is therefore both theoretical  and practical in character since it is a question of  analysing the results of the survey already made and  the principles which emerge from it and because it  is intended to supply the Unesco Secretariat with the  essential material on which to base the principles of  long-term action.
2.7 You are not asked, ladies and gentlemen, to  adopt any resolutions or formal decisions during or  at the conclusion of this discussion. You are asked,  in the light of the statement which Mr. Jean Thomas  is to make in n moment, to give your reactions, to  provide pointers and to suggest directions for activity  in regard to this great problem which, I repeat, in  my view influeñces to some extent the whole  programme to which Unesco is dedicated.
2.8 1 was anxious to give you the reasons for the   PLENARY  choice of topic and to indicate the scope and nature  of this debate, Mr. Jean Thomas, Assistant  Director-General, will now discuss the related  documents.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French);  I call on Mr, Jean Thomas, Assistant Director-  General,
4.1 Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  (Translation from the French):  Mr. President, Unesco's Constitution provides  at the outset that "the Statés parties to this Consti-  tution, believing in full and equal opportunities for  education for all, in the unrestricted pursuit of  objective truth, and in the free exchange of ideas  and knowledge, are agreed and determined to develop  and to increase the means of communication between  their peoples and to employ these means for the  purposes of mutual understanding and a truer and  more perfect knowledge of each other's lives."
4.2 In one and the same paragraph, therefore, two  casential ideas are outlined: Unesco was created in  order to develop among peoples the free exchange of  ideas and knowledge and to increase relations  between those peoples with a view to better under-  standing.
4,3 These two key words, exchanges and relations,  are those which, according to the Constitution, define  the very reason for Unesco's existence. Unesco  was created precisely in order to develop inter-  national relations and exchanges and these are the  very words used by the Economic and Social Council  to define the object of this survey,
4.4 But while exchanges and relations between  peoples may be Unesco's reason for existing, it  cannot be said that they are a Unesco monopoly even  in the fields of education, science and culture. Other  United Nations agencies are to varying extents  Ukewise actively interested in the development of  such exchanges and relations. For example, the  World Health Organization is concerned with many  aspects of exchanges and relations in the field of  science; the International Labour Organisation is  concerned with these same relations and exchanges  in the field of vocational training; the Food and  Agriculture Organization is also concerned with  scientific relations and axchanges; so are the World  Meteorological Organization, the Atomic Energy  Agency and even the United Nations itself; and when  we look a little more closely into the texture of these  relations, we find that other United Nations agencies -  the Universal Postal Union and the Telecommunication  Union, for instance - are again very directly and  deeply concerned with exchanges and relations.
4.5 Looking beyond the United Nations famlly, we  find other intergovernmental organizations which  are wholly devoted to relations and exch-iges in the  educational field and, first and foremost, the  International Burea of Education. -
4.6 Other international organizations of a regional  type also carry out very important work in these  fields: the Organication of American States and the  League of Arab States, to name only two..
4.7 Leaving aside intergovernmental organizations,  there are a great many international non-govern-  mental organizations entirely devoted toithe develop~  MEETINGS
345  XXI  ment of exchanges: in science; for example, there  is the International Council of Solentifio Unions; in  social science, the International Social Science  Council; in humanistic studies, the International  Council for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies;  among organizations concerned with the development  of artistic exchanges, the International Music  Council, the International Theatre Institute, the  International Council of Museums and all the many  international non-governmental organizations with  which Unesco is required to co-operate under the  terms of its Constitution. .
4,8 Finally and most important, beyond the inter-  national organizations, the Member States them-  selves maintain a vast network of relations in these  basic fields at what is called the bilateral level,  either by virtue of treaties or agreements which  they have concluded and which are generally known  as cultural agreements - even when they concern  fields which are not strictly cultural or when they  also relate to science, education and information  media - or without any treaty or agreement but  simply as a result of arrangements or custom.
4.9 This complex of relations and forms of inter-  national relationship in these fields of education,  science and culture has been a frequent concern of  the Economic and Social Council in recent years.  And, on various occasions, the Council has asked  international organizations belonging to the United  Nations family - especially Unesco - to submit  information and studies on this network of inter-  national relations. In 1958, the Economic and Social  Council adopted a resolution asking that a survey of  international relations and exchanges in the fields of  education, science and culture should be submitted  to it together with recommendations on means of  action, both separately and jointly, in order to carry  international co-operation in these fields still  farther; and recognizing that Unesco's competence  was outstanding in this connexion, it was Unesco  that the Council asked to undertake this survey, in  collaboration with other United Nations agencies,
4.10 The basic document which you have before  you (ti C/17) traces the history of this survey and I  will not here go over the details again; they will be  found specifically in paragraphs 9, 10 and 11 of this  document. I will simply recall that the Unesco  Secretariat immediately began consultations with  other United Nations agencies, formed a liaison  committee with those agencies to allot the various  tasks and that Unesco called on its Member States  and on qualified international organizatious to  provide information to supplement what the  Secretariat had already assembled on this question  over a number of years, .
4.11 In February 1960, an expert committee was  convened by the Director-General añd, in April 1960,  the Executive Board, which had received the conclu-  sions drawn from this survey, itself formulated  observations addressed to the Economic and Social  Council. Finally, in July 1060, this survey was sub-  mitted to the Economic and Social Council which  adopted the resolution quoted in paragraph 11 of the  document before you. This resolution begins by  congratulating Unesco on the work done; it then  fuvites Unesco to study the measures still needed to  encourage effective co-ordination between bilateral   XXII PLENARY  and multilateral programmes concerning these  relations and exchanges - including, for instance,  the preparation by the Director-General of periodical  reports to the General Conference containing infor-  mation on national, bilateral and regional activities.  It further invites Unesco, in consultation with the  United Nations and the Specialized Agencies, to study  practical and technical measures which would  enable the objectives mentioned in the survey to be  attained and liste a series of such measures which  Unesco could study.
4.12 The report submitted by the Secretariat to the  Economic and Social Council on this basis, with the  collaboration of Member States and other international  organizations, was drawn up by the Exchange of  Persons Service - which the Director-General  proposes henceforward to term the International  Exchange Service - with the very valuable support  and assistance of a special consultant, the Minister,  Mr. Jean Baillou, who is with us today.
4.13 This lengthy report is not, of course, intended  for detailed analysis on your part. But what the  Director-General, first of ail, and then the Executive  Board hope your assembly will do is to provide by  your observations certain governing ideas which can  and should guide the Secretariat and the Executive  Board when the time comes for them, in pursuance  of the Economic and Social Council's recommenda-  tion, to study those governing principles and technical  measures. It is therefore, if you will, a form of  guidance which the Director-General and the  Secretariat hope to récelve from you during these  two days of discussion.
4.14 Aa I said a moment ago, the Executive Board,  to which the conclusions of the Secretariat's survey  were submitted, formulated certain observations  thereon which were communicated to the Economie  and Social Council. I believe it is worth recalling  some of them to you because it is just such consider-  ations which, if confirmed by your own discussions,  would provide certain guiding lines for the work of  the Secretariat and no doubt for the work of the  Executive Board also, -
4.15 I want to refer to somé of these points which  occur in the Executive Board's observations and  also in the conclusions of the Secretariat's survey,  as well as in the report of the International Commit-  tee of Experts. The first of these is that inter-  national exchanges in the fields of education, science  and culture have greatly developed in recent years,  both in the activity of international organizations and  the bilateral activity of Member States, and that  States seem agreed in according an ever increasing  importance to such exchanges, which they regard as  increasingly vital for the maintenance of peace and  the establishment of trustful relations between  peoples. ‘ This is a very important point, a funda-  mental point, which the Executive Board wished to  emphasize. :
4.16 The Board next noted that, according to the  data contained in the survey, international exchanges  and international relations, however extensive, do  not have the same range and intensity in or between  all regions; that the network of relations is much  closer in some parts of the world than in others;  that it tends to bring certain parts of the world more  closely together than others. And, here again,  MEETINGS  the Executive Board drew attention to that inequality  which might perhaps furnish material for a more  detailed survey and more detailed recommendations  on Unesco's part.
4,17 Thirdly, the Executive Board noted that these  international exchanges in the fields of education,  science and culture seemed to have two essential  aims, no doubt related but at the same time quite  distinct.
4.18 The first is to establish a network of  exchanges and relations between the different  countries - exchanges of knowledge and exchanges of  persons, ideas and material as well as the free cir-  culation of persons, ideas and materials, This, may
1 point out, is entirely in accordance with the apirit  and letter of Unesco's Constitution. It was for this  that Unesco was created and those who took part in  Unesco's early work know that this idea of inter-  national co-operation, of intellectual exchanges,  underlay Unesco's activity for many years; and,  needless to say, it remains basic to our work.
4.19 At the same time, a second idea has gradually  emerged from Unesco's experience and work and  has an increasingly important place in the Organi-  zation's activities and programmes and in the  deliberations of the General Conference. I believe,  moreover, that the present session provides a  striking illustration of this idea, namely, the assist-  ance given by the more fortunate countries, those  economically most developed and technically best  equipped, to countries which are less fortunate and  whose needs are greatest. This is a second aspect  of international relations in the three fundamental  fields which concern Unesco, an aspect which,  without replacing the first, without supplanting it,  has none the less become increasinly important  throughout the years.
4.20 The Executive Board noted this dual objective  and, at the same time, expressed the hope that both  objectives would continue to be borne in mind by  Unesco and the other international organizations  concerned. ‘
4.21 Finally, the Executive Board énunctated a  fourth general principle, namely, that the relations  established between peoples should retain their  character of true reciprocity, in other words, that  they must not tend to become a one-way stream,  running, for example, from the best supplied, best  equipped and richest countries to the most unfavour-  ably situated and poorest countries, but that there  must be a genuine reciprocity in these exchanges.  And the Board recognized that one of the fields in  which reciprocity was easiest and most effective was  the cultural field, applying the principle which has  always been inherent in Unesco's work -.that each  people can offer all other peoples the fruits of its  own culture and of its own cultural traditions. Thus  the Executive Board was led to point out the import-  ance of activities in the cultural field as a counter-  weight or complement to technical and economic  assistance.
4.22 Those, I think, are four main principles  which the Executive Board brought out and which it  is perhaps worth recalling as this discussion opens.
4.23 The Executive Board, like the Economic and  Social Council earlier, was struck by the complexity  of international relations and especially by the need  > © 346   PLENARY  for co-ordination between these relations and, still  more - an extremely important point - by the need  for co-ordination between activities at the bilateral,  regional and international levels, to use the terms  employed in the Economic and Social Council's  resolution,
4.24 In other words, and especially as regards.  technical or economic assistance in all forms, the  efforts of the various States at bilateral level and  their parallel efforts at the international level must  be co-ordinated since, while machinery exists within  the United Nations system for the co-ordination of  the plans, programmes and activities of different  international organizations, there is so far nothing,  nor any method other than pure empiricism, which  gives reason to hope that ‘ bilateral and-inter-  national programmes can be co-ordiriated, at any  rate at the implementation stage. This is the prob-  lem which the Economic and Social Council wished  Unesco to examine with a view to finding solutions,  not from the viewpoint of abstract logic but to ensure  the vfficacy of international action and the maximum  advantage to countries receiving assistance.
4,25 In addition to these general considerations,  the Economic and Social Council was anxious that  Unesco should study in the yéars ahead a certain  number of concrete problems of à practical arid  technical nature which the Council, in the light of the  survey submitted to it, considered of particular  importance for the development of international  relations in the fields of education, science and  culture. I would like simply to mention here some  of the problems which the expert committee had  already pointed to, which the Executive Board had  likewise pointed to, and which the Economic and  Social Council included along with many others.  First of all, the difficulty, in relations between  peoples, of overcoming the linguistic barrier and the  advantage which would accrue from Unesco examin-  ing and instituting measures designed to promote  the teaching and translation of living languages.
4.26 Secondly, the necessity of developing inter-  national understanding in education and the necessity  of seeking methods which will ensure that education  is increasingly imbued with the spirit of inter-  national understanding.
4.27 Thirdly, the importance, as I have already  mentioned, of cultural programmes as a comple-  ment to programmes of a scientific, technical or  economic nature,
4.28 Fourthly, the importance of communicating  results of scientific’ research by means of scientific  documentation available to all scientists. Then, the  importance of exchanges of persons in all fields and,  finally, the importance of all practical and technical  measures facilitating the free circulation of informa-  tion and ideas and, more especially, the exchange of  educational, ‘scientific and cultural material, Such  are some of the very definite and very concrete  problems which the Economic and Social Council  singled out.
4.29 In concluding this outline of the document  submitted to you and of the problem which the  Director-General hopes will be discussed by the  plenary assembly of the General Conferénce, I  would like to say, Mr. President, that what the  Secretariat especially wants now are governing ideae;  MEETINGS
347  XXI  these governing ideas will be conveyed in the  speakers’ observations and these will be read by the  Secretariat when the texts have been printed.
4.30 It is possible - | take the liberty of making the  suggestion - that the President will sum up some of  these ideas at the end of the discussion. But, in any  case, the ideas and observations which speakers  will make on behalf df their respective countries  will be of the greatest interest to the Secretariat  when it continues the surveys which the Programme  Commission will specify in detail and which appear  in the programme and budget of the Organization for
5.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  The Assistant Director-General's statement has  established the framework for our discussion.
5.2 In opening this discussion, I feel impelled to  express my very great satisfaction, It is something  of a red-letter day for Unesco when a free exchange  of views is to take place with t:0 rules of procedure,  no points of order, none of the sometimes burden-  some machinery which weighs on the ordinary work  of a large assembly, You are invited to speak here  in order that each of you may enrich Unesco's future  programmes with suggestions concerning the prob-  lems with which we shall be dealing - problems  which, as the Director-General emphasized, are as  new to our work as they are basic to the future, I  have no wish to impose strict time-limits on you; I  hope that by giving each speaker approximately  fifteen minutes we shall achieve a symphony in which  each can play his part in a spirit of unity and harmony.
5.3 At the conclusion of our discussion, I will do  my best to sum up as many of the ideas which have  been brought out as possible ~ ideas which the  Director-General will subsequently study at leisure  and gradually incorporate in Unesco's work, as a  sort of preview of the world of tomorrow which we  are invited to build.
5.4 I would like to welcome to our meeting H.E.  Mr. Baillou, the special consultant who has contri-  buted much to our work. I would also remind you  that you have an inexhaustible source of suggestions  in the Director-General's report, which cannot be  overpraised and which contains the germs of a whole  series of work plans which the various speakers will  doubtless develop.
5.5 1 call on Dr. Reinink, delegate of the Netherlands.
6.1 Mr, REININK (Netherlanus) (Translation from  the French):  Mr. President, before addressing this distinguished  gathering on item 17,7 of the agenda, whi ch includes  a general discussion of international exchanges in the  fields of education, science and culture, I should  like to express my satisfaction that this discussion  is taking place.
6.2 I believe that the Director-General of our  Organization was very right in noting that a great  many delegates and a section of public opinion have  been very conscious since Unesco came into being of  the absence or extreme rarity of dynamic and far-  ‘ ranging discussions within the framework of the  General Conference in connexton with the great  problems of our time in those fields with which we  are concerned.   XXII PLENARY
6.3 It would have been hard to {ind a better subject  for this first discussion than international relations  in the fields of education, science and culture, not  merely because it encompasses, so to speak, the  raw material itself of Unesco's work but also  because its discussion by the General Conference  has been prepared over several years past, [am  thinking, of course, of the two meetings of Directors  responsible for the conduct of international cultural  relations which Unesco organized in 1957 and 1958  and of the detailed survey of this question which our  Organization carried out in 1959 and 1960 for the  Economic and Social Council of the United Nations,  This survey, moreover, coincided with the evalua-  tion of the Organization's activities in the years  ahead. These discussions and reports together  conatitute; in my vic. +, an excellent background for  the discussion which segins today.
6.4 I therefore hae no intention, in the course of  this brief statement, of dealing with all aspects of  international cultural relations nor even of singling  out the guiding lines. These are very satisfactorily  shown in the documents submitted to the Conference  and, more especially, in document 11 C/17. I  would merely like to aubmit to the attention of our  colleagues and the governing bodies of our Organiza-  tion a few reflections both theoretical and practical  regarding points which, in my opinion, have  remained somewhat obscured, In the theoretical  realm, the term "international cultural relations"  immediately raises the question of what meaning  should be given to the concept of "culture". It has  been observed on several occasions in the course of  our meetings that this concept can be interpreted in  various ways. The term " cultural relations" is  therefore similarly subject to a variety of  interpretations.
6.5 The human mind may be described as a  constantly expanding universe. When we compare  to our own the world of thought which belonged to  ancient Greece or India we observe that a great  many new problems confront modern man dnd that  new ideas have emerged in respect of ancient prob-  lems. Thanks to the ever expanding universe of his  mind, man occupies à unique place in nature and he  owes that place to the very essence of language  which, because of certain inherent qualities, is a  vehicle which 1s in process of development and an  instrument of expansion. -
6.6 I am thinking, first of all, of what, ever since  Feydinand de Saussure created the term, linguists  call the arbitrary structure of language: the  abaence of any direct link between the form of  language and its function. Because of this phenomenon,  language today represents more than in the past; but,  for the same reason, it takes various forms in the  different regions of the world, We might say that  this differentiation of languages - and hence the  differentiation of tyres of culture and phases of  - development - is the price man pays for the posses-  sion of that inestimable privilege represented by the  expansion of his spiritual universe.
6.7 Again, it is the arbitrary nature of language  and of the various forms of culture which encourages  the faculty of understanding several languages and  several cultures, thereby making it possible to  establish contact with human beings who use language  > 348  MEETINGS  in another way and who possess a different culture,  Throughout human history we observe that strangers  behave towards each other eithér as enemies or as  hoate and guests; it ia no accident that the Latin  word "hostis" , meaning enemy, has the same origin  as the English words "host" and "guest". Whenever  two people of a different culture are confronted with  the double possibility of basing their mutual relations  on friendship or enmity and choose the former, they  obtain the possibility of learning the other's language  and type of culture and thereby of acquiring know-  ledge and enrichment. This process of exchange is  as old as mankind itself and the part which Unesco  should play in that process is, so to speak, to insti-  tutionalize it; it is the transposition of friendly  individual relations into relations between communi-  ties, whether States or associations of a religious,  social, cultural or any other nature. The concrete  aim of that institutionalization is the creation of the  most favourable conditions for the transmission of  knowledge and spiritual attainments in the belief that  the great problems of our time call for a combination  of forces. But the value of this institutionalization  must not be exaggerated; basically, all contacts  between peoples can be reduced to contacts between  individuals and the most promising cultural agree-  ments will be valueless unless those responsible for  implementing them possess the necessary qualities  to become personae gratae in international contacts.  Without training as world citizens, the building of a  world brotherhood is impossible. :
6.8 This excaange of ideas and information - 1, e.  the reciprocal fertilization of the mind - has certainly  been examined and analysed in a variety of ways,  But it is strange that the study of international law,  which relates to the regulation of relations between  States in the material sphere, developed well before  the study of relations in the spiritual sphere which  are based on mutual understanding. The study of  international understanding, which is dependent on  and essentially complementary to international law,  has not yet found in most of our countries the place  it merits in university studies. This seems to me  to be an important task which Unesco might under-  take. If study of the various aspects of international  understanding were a specific subject of our univer-  sity teaching, we could in the near future have avail-  able a group of experts who would have léarnt to  analyse these problems systematically and scientifi-  cally and who, in the exercise of their profession,  could apply the principles so acquired, either as  members of Unesco, as cultural attachés, as  members of National Commissions, as Technical  Assistance experts, as heads of departments of  international cultural relations or in other similar  activities.
6.9 A suitable curriculum in this field will not drop  into our laps and I wonder whether Unesco could not  convene an expert meeting to draw up such curricula  and prepare textbooks. The elements for-such a  study undoubtedly exist since anthropologists,  ethnologists, linguists, historians, sociologists,  theologians and other qualified scientists are avail-  able. What is lacking, in short, is the sharing and  co-ordination of the knowledge acquired in respect  of the question now before us It is a matter of  directing all this knowledge towards the problems   PLENARY  - involved in contact between all communities on a  world scale and, naturally, in our own time, in order  to solve current problems, I would like to elaborate  this idea in two ways.
6.10 In the first place, it would be necessary to  carry out a survey in depth of the elements which  underlie international cultural relations - a survey  which would make the différentiation between peoples  and their rapprochement comprehensible by defining  and scientifically analysing the causes and the  elements which govern and determine that evolution.  Such a survey could be adapted to the réquirements  of secondary education. A subject could be included  in curricula under the heading " history of mankind's  development”, which would seek to explain to  students the esuential elements of the " human  situation" as well as the coming together of peoples  as a result of increased international contacts,
6.11 The second point I would like to stress is that  there are scarcely any practical textbooks adapted  to the various specific cases. As one concerned  with my country's international cultural relations,  how should I proceed if, with a view to establishing  relations with my colleagues in Ghana or Thailand,  I tried to become acquainted with their environment  and cultural traditions? Our libraries contain no  books dealing with the essential elements of the  spiritual, social and cultural development of the  people of Ghana or Thailand nor with the great  current problems in those countries. And yet I must  be thoroughly grounded in all this in order to see how  fruitful cultural relations can be established between  the Netherlands and either of those two countries.
6.12 Moreover, I am obliged to recognize from the  outset that it would be extremely difficult to explain  to my colleagues in those two countries what are the  essential elements in the culture of my own country  at this stage of its history.
6.13 I feel that Unesco could do useful work by  encouraging the publication of a series of specialized  cultural textbooks or, failing that, by examining the  most effective and least costly means of bringing  about the publication of such books. Such steps, it  seems to me, would be especially valuable to those  who are concerned in one way or another with inter-  national technical assistance programmes. Before  going to any given country, each expert should have  the opportunity of becoming acquainted with the nature  of the community in which he is to work and with the  relations between the various groups which make up  that community, The present character of peoples  should be clearly and succinctly described ona  reliable scientific basis,
6.14 Document 11 C/17 outlines a number of the  problems to which I have referred Paragraph 27,  for example, quotes the opinion of the committee of  experts which studied the report submitted by Unesco  to the Economic and Social Council to the effect that  "in improying the teaching of modern languages,  ways might be sought for teaching about cultural  values in general". I agree with this observation on  condition that the meaning of the phrase ' * cultural  values" is more thoroughly defined. It is true that  we all have a half-unconscious awareness of the  cultural values of the community to which we our-  selves belong. But the cultural values of another  community than our own are foreign entities which
349  MEETINGS XX  can only be understood to the extent that they are  clearly defined and formulated in a language adapted  to our way of thinking.
6,15 Here, in my opinion, is an important task  awaiting the Associated Institutions for the Study and  Presentation of Cultures which it is planned to set up  within the framework of the East-West Major Project.
6.16 Mr, President, In examining the remarkable  work done by the Unesco Secretariat in preparing the  Director-General's report as regards international  relations and exchanges in the educational, scientific  and cultural fields, we are forced to recognize that  it is impossible to have an all-inclusive view of the  subject. It is clear that the main question - personal  contacts, which are so frequent in the cultural field -  cannot be dealt with in a report, We can never hope  to take exhaustive action; let us therefore not devote  excessive sums of money or efforts and restrict our-  selves to being not unduly incomplete. The main  outcome which we can expect from such a report is  that it specify what is lacking - in other words, what  parts of the world still have no cultural exchanges,  It is not a new fact in its broad sense, but our suppo-  sitions are confirmed by the facts: cultural exchanges  are numerous between countries of the same geo-  graphical region or the same culture, whereas they  are few between countries which belong to dissimilar  cultures, to different regions and, it must unfortu-  nately be added, in today's world, to different camps.
6.17 To record the fact is one thing; to ask whether  we should, at all costs, encourage cultural exchanges  between all countries is another. I believe that in  some cases we should recognize that it is not desir-  able, Too many initiatives run counter to each other  and that is why we welcome the fact that in Tokyo,  Beirut, New Delhi, plans are being made to set up  institutes designed to encourage international  exchanges.
6.18 When we recall, in this regard, the results  obtained by the Arab League, the Nordic Council and  the Latin American countries, it ie obvious that  sooner or later the series must be completed by an  institute equipped to represent Europe.
6.19 There may be other reasons why cultural  exchanges with foreign countries may be undesirable  at a given moment. : I am thinking of the powerful  impression which the representative of Ghana made  on me at the second meeting of Directors of Cultural  Relations Services when he pointed out that several  countries are still engaged in forming their type of  culture and are therefore at a stage in which technical  assistance from outside is certainly welcome, whereas  it would be undesirable for foreign influences to make  themselves felt. .
6.20 In other cases, however, cultural exchanges  are non-existent even though there are many reasons  in favour of them, This lack may be due to a variety  of causes: excessive distances, shortage of funds,  but also, in various countries, & shortage of men  capable of organizing these exchanges effectively.  In many countries which are engaged in putting their  house in order, it is difficult to detach men who are  primarily needed for the building of their own nation  in order to have them handle cultural relations. Is  it not Unesco's task to study whether, in the more or  less near future, experts could be sent to carry out  this work.   XXII PLENARY
6.21 I sald a moment ago that cultural exchanges  are often non-existent between countries which have  indifferent political relationships, Speakers from  various delegations have repeatedly pointed out during  the presert Conference that the maintenance of  cultural links may be desirable in just such cases.  If this is so - and I share thé opinion of those who  have advanced this viewpoint - could not Unesco  examine the possibility of suggesting, within the  limits of its competence, to two countries whose  political relations are unsatisfactory that they should  initiate exchanges in the cultural field?
6.22 The question whether, in such a case,  cultural agreements should be reached forthwith  seems to me to be of secondary importance, since  these agreements are important for only two reasons.  The first is that the budget of the countries concerned  can make provision for the funds needed to implement  the agreements; the second involves the obligation of  the contracting parties to meet at specific intervals  in order to discuss what decisions should be taken.  But such agreements are in no way essential to the  achlevement of these objectives: two countries can  undertake a number of exchanges in the cultural field  without being linked by a cultural agreement. In  other cases, an agreement may remain a dead letter  with nobody giving any thought to it after a certain  lapse of time.
6.23 In conclusion, 1 should like to sum up the  suggestions which I have had the honour to make:  (a) The institution of scientific teaching for the  training of experts in cultural relations;  (b) To this end, the preparation of the necessary  textbooks;  (e) A definition of the "  different countries;  (d) Encouragement of regional cultural exchanges  between communities in different parts of the world;  (e) Action by Unesco to make experts available  to certain countries in order to organize their  cultural contacts with the outside world;  (f) Action by Unesco in regard to the establish-  ment of normal cultural relations between politically  opposed countries.
6.24 In asking us to consider problems which do  not call for immediate action by our Organization,  the Director-General rightly reminded us that we  are engaged in a task where not all the elements can  as yet be analysed and which none.of us will see  completed.
6.25 I think we should do well to remember this  every so often. We live in an age which is pressed  for time, in which urgent problems call for urgent  solutions. To have been called on in such an age to  remember Unesco's prime task - which is to work  for peace irrespective of day-to-day developments -  cannot but cause us the keenest satisfaction.  cultural values" of
7. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H, E. Mr. Raadi, Head of the  Iranian delegation.
8.1 Mr. RAADI Iran) (Translation from the French):  Mr. President, the Iranian delegation to the  eleventh séssion of the General Conference is very  happy to note that the fundamental {impor.ance of  international relations and exchanges in the educational,  MEETINOS  scientific and cultural fields has b.en In turn a con-  cern of the United Nations Gz1.aral Assembly, the  Economic and Social Council and the Executive Board  It greatly values the work done by the experts and  pays tribute to the initiative taken by the Director-  General to include In each session of the General  Conference a debate on'a topic falling within its  competence but independent of any consideration of  current activities or of the proposed programme and  budget for the succeeding two years,
8.2 As regards this year's choice of toplc,- it would  be idle to dwell on its capital importance, since  exchanges of persons, information and publications  are, after all, the three vehicles for the trans-  mission over continents, oceans and the sky of all  that education, science and culture offer to all  mankind.
8.3 While subscribing to the main considérations  and observations embodied in the admirable docu-  ment 11 C/17, I would like to make a modest contri-  bution to this discussion in the form of a few reflec-  tions and remarks of a general or practical order  which I submit to the attention of the General  Conference.
8,4 As regards the general considerations, docu-  ment 11 C/17 makes reference to thé increasing  scope and complexity of international exchanges, to  the barriers to improved communications, to the  need for co-ordination, to reciprocity in international  relations, to legal instruments and regulating action.  With due allowance for the inevitable connexion  between these various aspects of the problem, I  believe that they can be reduced to three essential  elements: the technical inequality of information  media (which results in lack of reciprocity), the  absence of adequate co-ordination and, finally,  certain obstacles - especially the psychological  factor - which I will endeavour to bring out.
8.5 Concerning the inequality of Information and  publication media, it goes without saying that this  will persist as long as there are differences in’  economic potential and the availability of qualified  staff. But the situation can to some extent be  remedied by technical assistance on the economic  and social planes and by the training or strengthen-  ing of senior staff. The lack of reciprocity,’ in fact,  leading as it does to what is called "a one-way stream"  has the main disadvantage, as Mr. Jean Thomas’  pointed out, of depriving the bêtter equipped countries  of information supplied by the authorized spokesmen  of less known countries. But, in ‘addition, it involves  a still greater danger which has not so far, in my  view, been sufficiently stressed. I refer to the fact  that most Aslan, African and Latin Américan peoples  have a duty to become aware of their own culture - or  are at present becoming aware of it - so as to make  it better known in other countries. But their exceed-  ingly modest resources in research and circulation,  compared with the abundance of publications and  information they receive from developed countries,  may discourage them to the point of causing them to  underestimate their cultural heritage or to despair  of preserving it. If I may make use of an example to  illustrate this observation, 1 would refer to the  Aswan Dam. While ensuring the economic and sotial  prosperity of a vast region, this would have involved  the risk, had not national and international action   PLENARY  been taken for their preservation, of drowning  beneath the invading floods of the legendary river  countless invaluable remains which are the source  of pride and artistic inspiration for all mankind,
8.6 As for the necessity of co-ordinating exchanges,  I consider that such co-ordination is required not  only for non-governmental organizations and inter-  national organizations like Unesco but, first and  foremost, for the member countries of these organi-  zations. We all know that a variety of organs or  departments dealing with international relations and  exchanges exist within every country, large or  small, But because of the number of such depart-  ments, the diversity of their tasks and the inequality  of their resources, it is often increasingly difficult  for someone seeking information on a given subject  to know which national department he should apply  to. Accordingly, without recommending an internal  centralization which remains undesirable - and, in  any case impossible - I belleve it necessary that a  technically well equipped body - especially linguisti-  cally well equipped - should, within each country,  be entrusted with the required co-ordination, Its  main task would be to harmonize the work of other  national bodies and to serve as spokesman in dealing  with international organizations and foreign exchange  departments or correspondents so as to keep them  informed and to facilitate their contacts with the  foreign relations departments and with representa-  tives of education, science and culture in the country  concerned I even wonder whether Unesco, if  requested by one or more Member States, might not  initiate a pilot project aimed at creating such a co-  ordinating body in whatever country requests it.
8.7 As regards the obstacles to be overcome,  reference has rightly been mate in document 11 C/17  to the difficulties arising from language differences  and frontier formalities. It {8 obvious that increased  teaching of living languages - especially widely used  languages - would greatly contribute to the easing of  international exchanges Similarly, the teaching of  foreign languages at primary level and the use of  audio-visual aids are unquestionably worth while.
8.8 Care must be taken, however, to ensure that  the teaching of foreign languages, especially in  primary schopls, does not develop to the detriment  of the national tongue, Otherwise, public opinion  will react (as recently happened in my own country)  when it 18 observed that certain parents or certain  private schools fail to preserve a reasonable balance  and neglect instruction in the mother tongue in  favour of foreign languages.
8.9 There ia another practical step which could be  taken, in my opinion, to reduce to some extent the  effect of languagé differences: failing full transla-  tions, summarized abstracts, or, at least, a  contents page in a widely used language might be  attached to documents intended for exchange, but  written in a little used language.
8.10 As regards obstacles created by human agency,  document 11 C/17 specifically reférs to frontier  formalities, without detailing the other factors  which hinder the free circulation of ideas, publica-  tions and information. In my view, it would not be  difficult to eliminate or reduce frontier formalities  if they derived solely frum economic and excise  considerations. But they are rooted also - and let  MEETINGS  us be frank - even especially, in psychological  motives and fears of a political order. It would be  absurd to claim that, éven in our age; education,  science and culture can escape the influence of poll-  tical systems and doctrines within countries and  even within intergovernmental organizations. But it  would be equally foolish to believe, even as things  stand at present, that it is impossible to improve  international relations and exchanges in those fields  with which Unesco is concerned, To that end, it  would be enough that each country, irrespective of  its ideological or economic system, should abandon  the use of cultural relations and international  exchanges of publications solely for direct political  propaganda. Let us remember that the mere fact  that a country produces and exchanges worth-while  works of art, high ranking scientific books and  objective publications on the methods and successes  of its educational work constitutes in itself the beat  and most persuasive form of publicity. What purpose  is served, then, by peppering these publications  with direct remarks, conclusions and reflections on  the superiority of a particular system or with violent  attacks against another one? The universality of  Shakespeare may be \lue, among other reasons, to  the fact that, after siting forth the facts and reveal:  ing the depth of the human soul and character, he  leaves his readers to draw their conclusions.
8.11 As far acl am aware, ancient Greece indulged  in no sort of cultural propaganda. On the other hand,  the Athenian historian, philosopher and general,  Xenophon, wrote the Cyropaedia as a tribute to the  merits of the educational system of Persia, which at  that time was the enemy of Greece. Nevertheless,  Greek civilization and its works penetrated, even  after the decline of the Hellenic State, to the heart o1  Asia. Eight centuries ago, one of our thinkers,  Saadi, said: "The musk fs recognized by its perfume  and not by the cry of the perfume seller",
8.12 It cannot be too often repeated that the more  attention is paid to psychological principles and rules  of objectivity, the more cultural relations end the  free circulation of publications will be ensured  Exchange and relationships mean a relaxation of  tension. That is why Unesco should take care in  studies, surveys and publications emerging from  independent initlative or undertaken under its  auspices and devoted to historical sources or various  cultures that no trace of aggressive nationalism or  tendentious interpretation of facts and ideas should  intrude upon historical truths or scientific data,
8.13 To illustrate what I have just said (and without  any desire to start a controversy), 1 would take this  opportunity of expressing with fraternal candour my  regret at the attitude of certain Middle Eastern  countries which, well aware of the large contribution  made by various races and peoples (including the  Iranian people) to the creation and spread of Islamic  culture, seek to persuade people that that culture is  the work of oné race or that it exists within the limits  of one language. They even carry this absurdity tothe  point of wishing, for example, to change the name of  the Persian Gulf which has been 20 called for thousands  of years. 1 cannot help wondering if they will not one  day, leaping from the Persian Gulf into the Indian  Ocean, demand for the same ridiculous reasons that  the name of the Ocean should also be changed]   XX PLENARY
8,14 Still more regrettable is the indulgence shown  by those, inside or outside Unesco, who, either from  ignorance of historical or contemporary realities or  from opportunist or political complaisance, encourage  such countries to embrace an increasingly narrow  concept of culture,
8,15 We are far indeed from the epoch when the  Farabis, the Birunis, the Avicennas, the Razes, the  Kindis, the Averrhoes and the Ibn Khaldouns, while  taithful to their Turkish, Persian, Arab or Berber  nationality, none the less considered themselves  solely as scientists, as men belonging to a single  scientific and cultural community, to a variegated  civilization of a universal tendency, They and their  works moved freely, from the foothills of the  Himalayas to the Barbary coast. And, be it said in  passing, when referring to Moslem civilization, we  must eliminate any idea of race or religion and think  rather of all the endeavours by different peoples and  communities - including even Christians - to create  a form of philosophic, scientific and artistic thought  extending over the whole of a vast region.
8.16 However that may be, these new separatist  approaches run counter to the development of  regional cultural relations and exchanges. The  proof of this lies in the fact that, in Iran, Arabic,  which, because of its religious nature and its noble  past, was regarded, after Persian, as the most  important language, is now gradually sinking into  oblivion. Recent cultural and historical publications,  written in Arabic and sometimes containing tenden-  tious assertions, are no longer read by Iranians nor  by the inhabitants of certain other countries and  their importation is continually declining.
8.17 As regards regulatory action, we agree with  the conclusions of Economic and Social Council  document E/3352 (quoted on page 6 of document
11 C/17). I may add, however, that, besides estab-  lishing criteria and standards in connexion with  cultural relations, Unesco might offer its services  to such Member States as might wish to consult it  before concluding a bilateral or multilateral  cultural agreement.
8.18 The encouragement and intensification of  exchanges of persons certainly have a happy and  important effect on the improvement of international  cultural relations. I would even say that the human  contact {8 a more important factor than any other  form of communication. ‘Consequently, the training  of specialists in international exchanges, either  through universities and national institutes or  through travel grants, acholarshipa or courses,  should be regarded not as a complement to but as  the pre-condition of a sound policy of methodical  development of educational, scientific and cultural  exchanges. In a word, in this as in several other  fields, man must come before materials.
8.19 For the reasons mentioned earlier and in  order to ensure co-ordination within the programme  of the Organization, we share the Director-General's  view that a single unit within the Secretariat should  be entrusted with the exchange of persons and co-  operation with national cultural relations services.  Two qualifications however, are necessary: first,  we believe that this should be treated as an experi-  ment; second, it is highly desirable that the new -  unit should co-operate closely with the Departments  MEETINGS
352  of Education, Social Sciences, Cultural Activities  and Mass Communication.
8.20 In conclusion, 1 would remind you that at the  time of the Crusades, when Islam and Christianity  were locked in bitter conflict, swords drawn,  scientists and manuscripts passed freely from one  camp to the other. For those manuscripts contained  only objective statements of sclentists belonging to  the three civilizations - the Greek, Roman and  Islamic - and their free circulation advanced the  cause of human progress. Whatever may be said,  our divisions, our divergencies and animosities, if  such there be, are no more intense than those of the  Crusaders and their enemies. Why, then, should  we not follow their example in the matter of  cultural exchanges?  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call on Mr, Amadou Hampate Ba, delegate of  Mali.
10.1 Mr, HAMPATE BA (Mali) (Translation -  from the French); .  Mr. President, fellow delegates, it goes without  saying that relations and exchanges in the fields of  education, science and culture are a theme which  should be treated in all seriousneas by all the  specialists concerned and which calls for more time  than has been granted us.
10.2 The word " exchange" for our nations - those  of Europe and America and our own, which were  once European possessions - cannot be taken as  meaning the barter of one object against another  accepted as an equivalent, but rather as meaning a  communication of cultural experiences and knowledge  with a view to modifying the existing state of affairs -  a communication which involves us in mutual appraf-  sal based on criteria which are sometimes ill chosen  and hence imperfect if not actually false. Unesco is  therefore an institution to which each State can make  ita intellectual contribution, not in order that the  latter be changed but that it may form part of a  universal intellectual and scientific machine  functioning for all. The word exchange’! alone is  therefore sufficiently meaningful to enäuré that we  devote ourselves seriously to the problem In hand,  As pointed out in paragraph 2 of document 11 c/11,  the question has been thoroughly studied ahd discussed  by the competent departments of Unesco and other  organizations, but it is none the less true that all  this study and discussion, however remarkable, Is  purely theoretical; it still remains to be applied in  the field, according to the means, countries and  regions involved, and, unless I am mistaken, it is  concerning that application that the Director-General  would like, and even requests, our views in order to  facilitate both his task and our own.
10.3 The Economic and Social Council has  expressed the wish - mentioned in paragrapis J of  document 11 C/17 - that Unesco should formulate  principles on which Member States can base the  development à} their international relations and  exchanges. For my own part, as regards Africa, I  would like Unesco to be authorized to make immediate  contact with Member States and Associate Members  with a view to assembling the appropriate documenta-  tion, without which it will be impossible, at any rate   PLENARY MEETINGS  in the case of Africa, to make good serious omissions.
10.4 This said, I support on behalf of my country,  Mali, which! represent here, the resolution adopted  in November 1958 authorizing the Director-General  to undertake the study planned: I would however  suggest, and even urge upon all my colleagues to  decide on the preservation of oral traditions in  Africa, a unique basis, a guarantee of its political  liberty and personality and the source of its original  knowledge. 1 ask that this be added to sub-section  (a) of paragraph 5, on page 4 of document 11 C/17.  The text might read, for example; "promoting the  teaching and translation of living languages, assem-  bling, classifying and translating the oral productions  of illiterate countries, whethar members or Associ  ate Members, with a view to the revival of their  dialects and making them living languages.‘ This  would speedily make {t possible to ensure that  exchanges were not in one direction - the latter  situation, humanly speaking, being humiliating to  those who receive without hope of giving, Such is  the case of certain African countries, especially in  Tropical Africa, and this proposal would moreover  ensure that exchanges were not confined to a single  kind of ideas and information, as stressed at the end  of paragraph 21 of document 11 C/17 (page 6).
10.5 TI assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that  Africa has its own personal forms of education for  the development of physical, moral and Intellectual  faculties and it would be oriminal to violate that  personality. By developing humanistic studies in  our countries you will learn about the customs of  our socleties and the spirit within us. ‘All our  traditional associations - known as " Bllakroton" in  Mali - are governed by laws; they are sources of  instruction for the young who learn from them to  help each other, to suffer in common, to obey as  well as to command, and to love one another. Our  greatest wish is to be able to educate our minds so  as to seek the truth in accordance with the prompt-  ings of our spirit. We hope that Unesco will provide  ue with the means: the method of reaching this goal  should be much more ours than that of scientists  with no knowledge of the mentality of our countries.
10.6 Finally, without abusing your patience, 1  should like to say a few words on the difference in  our mentalities, By way of a striking example of the  divergence between our conceptions, I may point out  that music in Africa is dictated by the dancer where-  as in I urope it 18 the dancer who foiliws the music.
10.7 I may also be allowed to say a few words about  the measiires which might be taken by the General  Conference at its eleventh session. It would be diffi-  cult, if not impossible, for the delegates of the new  African States, at any rate for the Mali delegate, to  formulate appropriate directives here, even of a  general nature, without referring them first to the  various official scientific bodies in their countries.
10.8 I therefore ask that the date for the final  formulation of plans be extended by several months  or weeks but that the resolution be voted upon The  arrival in Unesco of new States possessed of a new  mentality and having new needs but also possessed  of new potentialities should justify and gain accept-  ance of the fact that they are upsetting an order  which was establishea before they came, but  established also without them.  +353  XXII
10.9 This must not be taken as a reproach but  simply as a fundamental observation; for the rest,  all Africa, a land with high traditions of hospitality -  so much 80 that there are still vast regiona where  the stranger can travel without any provisions - can  only support, favour and encourage relations between  peoples and the circulation of ideas, In our country,  the stranger is sacred, ‘AI that may come to us  from other countries will be respected as such with  a view to founding that union of mankind without  which there can be neither peace nor happiness.
11.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I would like to thank Mr, ‘Amadou Hampate Ba,  delegate of Mali, for reminding us of the respect  due to the African personality and African traditions,  But 1 should perhaps emphasize that the purpose of  this discussion is not to open the way to immediate  and concrete changes in the current programme, but  to make suggestions which the Director-General will  examine with a view to the future.
11.2 1 call on Mr. Boris Kocifancic, delegate of  Yugoslavia,
12.1 Mr. KOCIJANCIC (Yugoslavia) (Translation  from the French):  Mr. President, I would first emphasize my view  that it is very useful to include on the agenda of our  Organization's General Conference a discussion of a  question of general interest falling within the  competence of Unesco,
12.2 Similarly, I believe that the problems under  discussion are very important and that we are in full  agreement with the United Nations Economic and  Social Council's conclusions which hold that contacts  between peoples and reciprocal knowledge of their  ways of life are a pre-condition for the full develop-  ment of a climate of peace and improved international  co-operation,
12,3 We can congratulate Unesco and the agencies  which have co-operated with it in the survey of inter-  national relations and exchanges in the educational,  scientific and cultural fields - for this survey is  very well documented, complex and important.
12.4 We are today witnesses to a rapid dévelopment  of international relations and exchanges in these  fields. Geographically, international co-operation is  becoming ever wider; it is, so to speak, becoming  ever deeper since governments are day by day  committing themselves to a greater extent; and it ie  also becoming more varied since it is encompassing  an ever growing number of activities In a wider  framework.
12.5 We are all aware that we should make use of  every possibility of contributing to the consolidation  of peaceful relations and co-operation in the contem-  porary world, from which we are seeking to elimi-  nate internati- ..al tension with a view to establishing  a lasting pet.ce The possibilities afforded by inter-  national cultural relations are of great importance  in this respect and play a preponderant part in the  consolidation of international relationships. But, to  achieve their aims, these internationsl relations and  exchanges - whose range and extension have been  “ highlighted by the Unesco survey - should, in my  view, meet certain essential conditions.
12.6 These relations and exchanges should develop   XXII PLENARY  on a basis of equality and thereby encourage recip-  rocal understanding and appreciation between peoples  of different cultures, Each culture, in as far as it  is the expression of men, the expression of à people,
1s unique and original and can enrich others.  Cultural rélations and exchanges should therefore be  stable and lasting and cannot depend on politics of  the day. Similarly, these relations and exchanges,  whether international, regional or bilateral, should  complete and sustain each other and not form  obstacles to the establishment and development of  new relations and new exchanges,
12.7 I would now like to outline certain aspects of  Yugoslavia's activity in the field of cultural  relations, .
12.8 We live in an age which is distinguished by  the very rapid development of material and spiritual  forces. This applies not only to the economic and  cultural advancement of the so-called " developed"  countries but to the whole world. We are witnessing  a powerful movement in every field of human activity,  including education, science and culture. My country  is participating in this world-wide process in the  conviction that it is in line with the fundamental  needs of its own development.
12,9 Yugoslavia's activities in the international  field are distinguished by the application of the  principles of peaceful co-operation with all States -  which means that it seeks to establish cultural  relations and to intensify those already existing.  This policy likewise derives from the fact that  contemporary culture is becoming increasingly  international, generalized and universal, It is  primarily due to the technical progress made in  recent years that favourable conditions are develop-  ing whereby mutual influences can be fruitful while  isolation has become impossible; a narrow national  autarky, moreover, {8 no longer possible in any  other sphere of social life.
12,10 Since we do not believe that cultural co-  operation between peoples is conditioned by the  achievement of political plans, we hold that a deeper  mutual understanding between peoples is reached  through relations and contacts, not merely between  peoples with similar systems but also between  peoples whose social structures are different.
12.11 We must continue to seek in cultural contacts  and relations an'eécape from the present situation  which is baneful to mankind, This situation, in fact,  because of the development of material resources,  could quickly evolve in the direction of relaxed  tension and the abolition of the poverty and under-  development from which a large part of mankind now  suffers.
12.12 - As far as Yugoslavia is concerned, the  application of the principles of active coexistence  has never been a tactical manoeuvre for political  ends but the expression of a deep conviction that  theae principles represent the only way in which we  can preserve peace and the future of humanity. That  is why, as regards Yugoslavia, collaboration with  other States in the cultural field finds expression in  the forging of ever closer links with other peoples  and at the same time constitutes a value in itself as  well as an effective contribution to man's efforts to  create the conditions needed for the development of  a ‘climate of peace.  MEETINGS
12.13 But it should be emphasized that this process  of mutual influence, the bringing together of different  national cultures, of integration in a universal and  humanistic culture - a consequence of the intensive  development of humanity - in no way rejects the  specific characteristics of the different national  cultures. These must endure along with the peoples  themselves. And that universal culture which  encompasses all the elements of contemporary  development remains varied and many-sided in line  with the separate historical evolution of peoples.
12.14 Such is Yugoslavia's viewpoint in all its  efforts on the cultural plane and on the plane of  cultural relations and exchanges with other States.  These relations are naturally influenced by the  development of education, science and culture in the  country.
12.15 Yugoslavia's new educational system {a  distinguished by the fact that it is available to every  citizen, that there are no artificial barriers hindering  any section of the population from attaining the highest  educational level and that it affords not only to young  people but also to adults every possibility of intellect-  ual, professional, social or other advancement,
12.16 Parallel to and rounding out this educational  system, there is an ever increasing number of adult  education institutions (peoples' universities,  workers' universities, courses, seminars, etc.)  which give everyone the possibility of extending and  deepening his Imowledge at all ages, , .
12.17 The activities of cultural institutions, the  content of theatrical and publishing programmes are  always devised so as to offer the public maximum  educational facilities and to enable that public to  develop its capacity for understanding man's finest  creations and to enjoy the products of culture.
12.18 The principle which governs cultural develop:  ment in Yugoslavia is the suppression of the old  distinction between the culture of a small élite and  the culture of the masses and the development of a  true culture expressing the convictions and efforts  of free men.
12,19 We are convinced that educational and cultural  organizations can only fully accomplish this task if,  instead of being operated by centralized State organs,  they are administered by bodies in close contact with  all those concerned. All educational, cultural and  scientific institutions in Yugoslavia are operated by  organs of social management. These organs are  composed of representatives of the community, the  institutions concerned and a certain number of  private citizens, Most of these representatives are  » tcruited from the collectivity which the institutions  are intended to serve. This method of administer-  ing cultural institutions establishes close reciprocal  ties between those institutions and the public and  confers upon the latter a positive rôle and the possi-  bility of directly affecting institutional activities.
12.20 During their short lifetime the organs of  social management have made rapid progress as is  shown by the fact that they have been able without  delay to devote themselves to the solution of problems  concerning the institutions they manage and that they  have been able to satisfy the people's ever growing  cultural needs. As a result these bodies are  increasingly becoming gulding organe of democracy  and culture.   PLENARY
12.21 When these self-manuging bodies were first  set up, Yugoslavia, at least in the early stages,  benefited greatly by the experience of other countries.  We consider, however, that within the framework of  our social life, we have extended the significance of  this institution and have perfected it in certain res-  pects, The process, however, is far from complete.
12.22 It should also be mentioned that, under the  influence of social management, important work has  been done in Yugoslavia for the protection, restora-  tion and preservation of historic monuments. Until  a short time ago, this task was entrusted to special-  ized organs of the Federative Republic and the  Federated Republics, The transmission of these  rights and résponsibilities ta the "circles" and  communes has much extended this type of activity  throughout the country.
12.23 The principle of the democratization of  cultural life which Yugoslavia applies within the  country and the principle of extending and consoli-  dating cultural relations with other peoples especi-  ally condition Yugoslavia's view of its relations with  newly independent peoples now attempting to conaoli-  date and protect their independence. Determination  to achieve rapid cultural progress is one of their  first concerns since they have, through no fault of  theirs, been hindered in their cultural advancement.  That is why all assistance to these peoples, whether  aimed at facilitating their development or at contri-  buting to their cultural institutions, simultaneously  helps to consolidate their national independence.  Accordingly, in addition to other forms of assistance  and co-operation, Yugoslavia grants more than 300  scholarships to students from underdeveloped  countries as a contribution to the development of  those countries. .
12,24 Finally, on behalf of the Yugoslav delegation,  which itself represents a State comprising a number  of peoples with relatively different cultures which  have developed in various circumstances and under  various historic influences, I would like to draw  your attention to a problem which we regard as  important and which is not only a problem for the  peoples of my ‘country but for many other peoples:  how can we enable numerically small nations to  exercise a wider influence by transmitting their  cultural values to other peoples?
12.25 Technicil advances in recent decades have  opened wide the gates to knowledge of culture and  science throughout the world. But the underdeveloped  countries do not benefit from these facilities and are  not in a position to make the world aware of their  own cultural values. To enable them to make their  original contribution to universal culture, Uneaco  should accord more substantial ald to these peoples,  who lack the necessary resources and the qualified  staff but none the less possess undeniable historical  and cultural values.
12.26 In conclusion, I would like to emphasize that  Unesco and all the Member States should concern  themselves still more with international relations  and exchanges, thereby stimulating the growth of  peaceful relations among peoples.
13. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H.E. Mr, Picén Salas, Head of the  delegation of Venezuela.  MEETINGS
14.1 Mr, PICON SALAS (Venezuela) (Translation  from the Spanish):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, If1 may 1  shall not restrict myself to mere comments on the  Director-General's most valuable report and all the  matters referred to in item 17.7 of the agenda, but  should like to say a few general words on Unesco's  rôle in à more activé policy of international  understanding.
14.2 In Tolstoy's well-known fable the happy man  had no shirt. In a well-organized society, of course,  he ought to have. one; but his happiness did not lie  only in the lack of that garment, but in the spiritual  possession of a quiet mind and a charitable under-  standing of the world, When overwhelmed by the  mass of documents at these lively meetings of the  General Conference, I turn for relaxation to the  poetry of those, for me, far-off countries - China,  Japan, Korea, India, the Arab world, etc. - some  of which has been published in English and French  with commendable zeal under Unesco's auspices, |  warmly recommend them to delegates who go home  tired after lengthy speeches and verbose documents.  For many of these poems, which crystallize the  mystery of life in a happy phrase, restore in part  the lost shirt of the happy man. I say this not as a  comment on the Director-General's full report, but  in recognition of the way in which poetry and art  make us the contemporaries and compatriots of all  peoples and all cultures.
14.3 But let us turn to more concrete matters, as  this august assembly demands. What Unesco has so  far done for international understanding makes us  impatient for what it has still to do. There is the  advantage for Unesco that, as a body dedicated to  education, science and culture, the political rivalries  among the great nations need not concern it. Absolute  equality of peoples and respect for the wonderful  variety of cultures are for me the essence of Unesco.  But, fellow delegates, if that principle were to be  violated, if accident, a quarrel or a political emer-  gency, occurring elsewhere, were to divert us from  our purposes, it would rest with the small nations,  which are not strong enough to fight for domination,  to warn the great powers. For true peace - the  peace of which the happy man in the fable dreamed -  cannot be gaiñed from ary aggressive balancing of  political, economic or military strength, but by first  being implanted in the minds of peoples. It 16 not  through votes and resolutions declaring our love of  peace that peace will be achieved, but by a wise  strategy of agreement between men through manifest  and determined goodwill. And the obstacles which  are today - in an age of material and technical  progreas - preventing a secure peace of mind and  prolonging the horrors of the cold war can be listed  in a few short propositions:
14,4 Firstly, no peaceful coexistence will be  possible if blind campaigne of hatred are carried on  between countries or if attempts are made to divide  ‘mankind into good nations and bad nations. The  criticisms levelled by a political or economic system  gainat the opposing system should not be confused  with the peoples who operate it. The justified  struggle between political ideologies = justified in  the name of inalienable intellectual freedom = should  not extend to extermination or the silence we seek to   XXII PLENARY  - impose upon our adversaries. Like science and  technology, intellectual freedom has been - in the  West, at any rate - a conquest of the modern mind  and it would be a major paradox of history if we  were to assert our scientific and technical modernity  while reverting to the hereay hunting of the Middle  Ages. : . .
14.5 Secondly, many of our modern sociclogista  have spoken of that bitter war of words in which  contemporary mankind appears to exist, when the  simplest term employed yesterday to designate a  group, & State or a class is now charged with a  strange, semantio violence and is fired off at the  adversary as a weapon of destruction or damnation,  How much better men would understand each other  if, in the course of our quarrels, we had not .  distorted the true meaning of words! Could not  Unesco, to give mankind more understanding,  provide not only technical but also semantic assist-  ance to all those peoples who live in this vast  destructive verbal discord? For this superimposed  feeling of hatred and fury with which words are so  unjustly impregnated, this perpetual etymological  sadism is an vbstacle to historical understanding  and a fair balancing of facts,
14.6 Thirdly, we speak of freedom of information  as being essential to mutual knowledge and in order  that men of every latitude may clearly understand  what is happening in the world; but we do not speak  with the same emphasis of the objectivity of informa-  tion, that 18 to say, that a news report should be  restricted to news and should not degenerate into  insidious distortion, into a caricature or into propa-  ganda far removed from the fact supposedly being  reported. Such deformation arises from the anger,  hatred or prejudice of one group against another,  from a zest for sensationalism, or because, in  reporting, we confuse {wo entirely separate intellect-  ual spheres; the fact and its subjective interpretation.  Two hundred years ago the cautious Hume taught us  that man cannot have any clear kmowledge, if it is  imbibed with undisciplined enthusiasm or in a  fanatical spirit i. .
14.7 Fourthly, in another speech I said that it was  only on the basis of the broadest and fullest cultural  plurality, of the diversity of peoples and ways of life,  of that "how to be a Persian" of which Montesquieu  spoke, that true understanding bétween nations can  be reached, If in times so difficult as those we live  in it is necessary to plan education, housing, agri-  culture and industry, the experts or planners must  always take into account, and understand, the spirit  of the peoples among whom they are operating; “they  must appraise a series of spiritual imponderables  which do not always figure in statistics. The most  dangerous thing which could happen to Unesco in its  programme for human understanding would be for it  to judge other peoples from the standpoint of an  exclusive metropolitanism. No single label can be  attached indiscriminately to the peoples whom, in  today! s language, we call underdeveloped. -
14,8 . These plans for international understanding  will be neither fruitful nor of value unless we can at  times bring. about what ! would call a discreet  decentralization of Unesco; that is to say, unless we  try to obtain the co-operation and friendship of  thinkers, -philosophers, educators and scientists  MEETINGS  everywhere, whether or not they belong to the
356  Organization. For as the delegate of Thailand so  well expressed it in one of the debates on the. pro-  gramme, an intellectual from that country will  understand the Thailanders better than one of another  tongue and region, Perhaps certain Unesco publica-  tions could do useful work by including a series of  monographs - aa the delegate of the Netherlands  hinted a few minutes ago - in which it would not  merely be Unesco officials but representatives of the  areas concerned who could give us the best picture  of their peoples; for the essence of international  understanding must penetrate the teaching of all  nations. 1 shall continue to repeat that some of  Unesco'a projects = though excellent in themaelves -  have not been able to win enough friends throughout  the world, possibly because of a certain metropoli-  tanism which thinks that it is possible to forecast  from an office in Paris how the public in Saigon or  Santiago de Chile will react. And the best plans will  not arouse sufficient enthusiasm unless Unesco  learns everywhere to seek out, invite and commit  its friends. Let us not always be calling meetings of  officials; let us often sit down at small round tables  with scholars, thinkers and philosophers from the  farthest lands, who will offer us new experiences,  incentives and points of view to make our programme  more universal and dynamic. Let us not impose  Unesco's plans bureaucratically from Paris offices;  let us also learn to pick them out from the clamour  and demands which reach us from the most varied  latitudes. And the intelligent task of the Unesco  expert would be to co-ordinate as well as possible  this world-wide invitation to culture and real human  underatanding. The Unesco radio, reviews and books  will then present a more changing and vital picture of  world progress than emerges - sometimes because  of the need for compromise - from one or other of  its offices. Not merely to engage staff for new  services, but to invite friends to co-operate with  faith and enthusiasm in whatever can be done for  international understanding - that is a task for-Unesco.  We must be on'our guard against a bureaucracy,  attached solely to the letter and chained by routine,  such as always threatens organizations which have  settled down and do not refresh and renew themselves  from the creative fount of life. Sarmiento, the great  Argentinian, the educator and civilian master of à  great South American nation, said that the fertile  contaminations of life were better than a sterile  purity. N Lo .
14.9.‘ Fifthly, there will be much to suggest in  regard to Unesço's plans ~ may they always be  fertile and creative - for international understanding.  Everything which the Director-General has to say  about the matter in his full and valuable report and  what Is said in document 11 C/17 is of great value it  the right spirit is behind it. May increasing attention  be paid to the voices of the far-off peoples, of educa-  tors and philosophers who cannot always come to  Paris but who, in the farthest corners of the world,  would be prepared to battle for the same cause. Let  us work for a genuine world culture no longer based  solely on European models, since Aslans, Latin  Americans and Africana also need to give expression  to their experience. That ia the best hope, the most  promising aim, for our Organization. It is not enough   PLENARY  - that Unesco should be willing to provide education fdr  still backward groupe and peoples; it is alsd neces-  sary to arouse among them a desire and love of  learning. Intellect Is not enough; what is also needed  is the intuitive spirit of which Pascal spoke,
14.10 That is why, fellow delegates, at one of those  afternoon meetings during which we had been over-  whelmed by discussions and decuments I, in my  laziness, set to thinking about the shirt of the happy  man and began reading, in the good translations  sponsored by Unesco, the poets of China, India,  Japan, the Arab world and Korea. My enthusiasm  for the Organization then took on a new lease of life.  I returned to work next day with faith revived.
15,1  The suggestions of H. E. Mr. Picôn Salas will be  discussed at the end of these meetings.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  MEETINGS Xx
15.2 The last speaker listed for this morning is  H.E. Mr, Kulazhenkov, delegate of the Union of  Soviet Soclalist Republics, since the Swiss repres-  entative will not speak until this afternoon. But, as  it is late, I think it would be better to postpone  Mr. Kulazhenkov's statement until the beginning of  this afternoon.
15,3 I would like to add that during the morning,  in addition to the Bulgarian representative who had  already yesterday expressed his wish to take part  in the discussion, I have received requests from the  Guinea and Cameroun delegations. I will of course  try as far as possible to call on the representatives  of these delegations during the four meetings to  come. The meeting is closed.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m,