14 Noyember 1960, at 4,15 p.m.  President: Mr. Jean BERTHOIN (France)  CONTENTS  Consideration of the First Report of the Credentials Com-  mittee L000 00  CONSIDERATION OF THE FIRST REPORT QF THE CREDENTIALS  COMMITTEE
1,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 declare the meeting open. Following on the state-  ment which I had the honour to make this morning  concerning arrears in payment of contributions, I  wish to inform the Conference that I have received  from the Head of the Chinese delegation a letter dated
12 November 1960, requesting that, in accordance  with Article IV, paragraph 8(c) of the Constitution,  the Chinese delegation be autho :ized to vote at the  present session, This communication is reproduced  in the document which will be distributed today to all  delegations, As I pointed out this morning, this re-  quest will be referred to the Administrative Commis-  sion, which will consider it when discussing item
23.2.2 of the agenda. vy
1.2 The General Conference “will now hear the  report of the Credentials Committee. I would at  once request delegations with comments to make on  this report to inform the Secrelary of the Conference  that they wish to speak.
1.3 Icall upon H.E. Mr. Matsui, Chairman of the  Credentials Committee.
2.1 Mr. MATSUI (Japan), Chairman of the  Credentials Committee (Translation from the French);  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the  Credentials Committee, established on 14 November
1860 by the General Conference of the United Nations  Educational, Scientific and Cullural Organization at  its eleventh ordinary session, held a meeting at 12  noon that day.
2,2 The Committee fs composed of delegates of  the following States: Argentina, Bulgaria, France,  Japan, Morocco, Philippines, \Jnion of Soviet  Socialist Republics, United Kingdom and United  States of America.
2.3 1 havs had the honour of lieing elected Chairman  of this Committee. This great honour has been paid,  certainly not to myself, but to iny country.
2,4 The Comnilttee proceeded to examine the  credentials received by the Director-General from  the States which will be listed later,
2,5 The delegate of the United States of America  proposed that the Credentials Committee recommend
53  to the General Conference that it take no decision  regarding the credentials submitted by the representa-  tives of Hungary, The delegates of Bulgaria and the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, on the other  hand, proposed that the credentials of the delegation  of Hungary should be recognized as being in good and  due form. ;
2.6 Furthermore, the delegate of the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics, supported by the delegate  of Bulgaria, lodged objections to the credentials sub-  mitted by the delegation of China and asked that  these credentials be rejected. On the other hand,  the delegate of the United States of America sub-  mitted the following proposal on the same  subject:
2.7 "The Géneral Conference,
(1) Decldzs not to consider, at its eleventh  session, ‘any proposals to exclude the representa-  tives of ‘the Government of the Republic of China or  to seat the representatives of the Central People's  Government of the People's Republic of China;
(2) Decides to rejeci ii» objection made to the  credentials of the representatives of the Republic  of China."
2.8 The Committee first voted on the proposal of  the delegation of the United States of America re-  lating to China. This proposal was adopted by 5 votes  to 3.
2,8 The Committee then proceeded to examine  the proposals relating to the credentials of the  Hungarian delegation. By 5 votes to 2, with
1 abstention, the Committee decided to vote first  on the proposal submitted by the delegation of the  United States of America. When put to the vote,  this proposal was adopted by 5 votes to 2, with 1  abstention.
2.10 The Committee noted that, as the purpose of  the vote was no’ to recommend the invalidation of  the Hungarian delegation's credéntials, that delega-  tion could, if the General Conference decided to  accept the Committee's recommendation, take part  provisionally in the work of the General Conference,  with the same rights as other representatives, in  accordance with Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure  of the General Conference.
2,11 The Committee decided that the delegates of  the Member States about to be listed were duly   II PLENARY  accredited, in conformity with Rule 22 of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference, by instruments  issued either by the Head of the State, the Head of the  Government or the Minister of Foreign Affairs, or by  another Minister authorized by the Minister of Foreign  Affairs to issue credentials,
2.12 These States are as follows; Afghanistan,  Australia, Belglum, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet  Socialist Republic, Canada, Ceylon, China, Republic  of the Congo (capital: Brazzaville), Czechoslovakia,  Dahomey, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,  Ethiopia, Finland, Federal Republic of Germany,  Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Haiti, India,  Ivan, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Korea, Libya,  Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaya, Mexico, Monaco,  Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua,  Niger, Norway, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland,  Rumania, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland,  Thailand, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United States of  America, Upper Volta and Viet-Nam,
2,13 The Committee recommends that the delega-  tions of these States be allowed to take part in the  eleventh session of the General Conference,
2.14 The delegates of the States about to be listed  submitted credentials In the form of letters, tele-  grams or other instruments issued by a Minister  other than the Minister of Foreign Affairs and not  duly authorized by the latter, by heads of diplomatic  missions, or by senior officials of the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs,
2.15 These States are as follows: Albania,  Argentina, Austria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cambodia,  Cameroun, Central African Republic, Chile,  Colombia, Cuba, El Salvador, France, Honduras,  Indonesia, Ivory Coast, Laos, Lebanon, Liberia,  Nigeria, Panama, Senegal, Tunisia, United Arab  Republic, United Kingdom, Uruguay, Venezuela,  Yugoslavia.
2.16 The Committee proposes that these instru-  ments be accepted as provisional credentials for the  delegations of the States in question, subject to the  later submission of credentials in due form, and that  meanwhile, these delegations be allowed to take part  in the eleventh session of the General Conference.
2.17 The Committee noted that a few Member  States had not furnished their delegates with creden-  tials. It decided to authorize its Chairman to report  direct to the General Conference on any credentials  that might be received from these Member States  before the Committee's next meeting.
2.18 The Committee examined the credentials of  the delegates of the following Assoclate Members:  Federation of the West Indies, Kuwait and Sierra  Leone, It recommends that the delegates of these  Associate Members be allowed to take part in the  General Conference.
2.19 The Committee then examined the credentials  of the observers of the Holy See, Ireland, Portugal  and Somalia, not members of Unesco, and of the ob-  servers from Mauritius and Tanganyika, The Com-  mittee recommends that the General Conference  admit these observers,
3.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  So far, four delegations have asked to take part in  the debate on the Report of the Credentials Committee.  x
54  MEETINGS  .  They are, In the order in which their requests were  made, the delegations of the United States of America,  Czechoslovakia, the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics and the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,  Would any other delegations wishing to take part in  the discussion kindly inform me at once?  (The delegations of Hungary, Argentira, the  Philippines, Rumania and China requested that their  names be included in the list),
3.2 I regard the list of speakers as closed and I  call upon H,E, Mr, Thayer, Head of the delegation  of the United States of America.
4,1 Mr, THAYER (United States of America):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, the delega-  tion of the United States, and I am sure this is true  of almost every delegation here represented, has  the deepest respect for the Organization of Unesco  and for the rules and regulations of procedure laid  down by its Conferences, its Secretariat, and the  Director-General, I therefore propose to abide by  these rules and defer any opening remarks of greei-  ing or rondolence until the appropriate dates speci-  fied for opening addresses.
4.2 Mr President; I wish to speak for the approval  of the report of the Credentials Committee and its  recommendation, I believe that at the very outset  of this Conference {t is of the utmost importance  that there be a clear understanding of how we shall  spend the too few hours we have to discuss some of  the most momentous probleins with which mankind  has ever been faced, There are peoples in Africa,  in the Arab States, in Latin America, the Far East  and elsewhere in the world who are seeking to take  their rightful place in this rapidly moving modern  civilization, They need, and indeed they must have  what this great Organization of Unesco {s moat quali-  fied to give them - advancement in education,  science and culture. We are gathered here at this  Conference to discuss ways and means of helping to  supply these needs,
4,3 These people are entitléd to our undivided  attention. Are we going to be able to spend our  time properly in discussing these problems, or are  we going to be subjected to long dissertations on  matters which are not, and should not be our con-  cern? The question who are the appropriate repre-  sentatives of the people of geographical China, is a  political question; it has no place in this forum. The  United Nations Organization was created for the  specific purpose of offering a forum for thé discus-  sion of political quéstions such’as this one, Indeed,  this very question has been discussed and was dis-  posed of only a few weeks ago by the United Nations  in a resolution practically identical to that recom-  mended by the Credentials Committee in its report.  As a Specialized’ Agency of the United Nations,  should this Organization take the initiative ir going  beyond the decision of the United Nations? I submit  Mr. President, that such action would not only be  inappropriate but would be plunging Unesco into an  area in which it does not belong, and in which, in  the process, it might suffer irreparable injury,
4.4 For political questions have a tendency to  divide peoples, whereas the advancement of educa-  tion, science and culture, and of human knowledge,  for which Unesco was created, ave questions which   PLENARY MEETINOS Il  bind people together. I hope, Mr. President that these  arguments will be a aufficient bagis on which the re-  port of the Credentials Committee can be accepted  by this Conference and its recommendations adopted,
4.5 I do not propose at this time to introduce the  subject of the qualifications of the Chinese Communist  régime to be seated in Unésco, since the issue before  us now is only the question whether or not the subject  of thn seating of the Communist Chinese delegation  should be discussed at all, I earnestly trust that at  this Conference we can avoid the violence and asperity  of words and action which all of us regretfully saw in  the forum of the United Nationa in New York. How-  ever, I would reserye my right, Mr, President, to  speak again and discuss these questions should they  be injected into this Conference by others; this I  sincerely hope will not be the case.
4.6 The report of the Credentials Committee also  includes the recommendation that the General Con-  ference take no decision regarding the credentials  submitted on behalf of the representative of Hungary.  Here again is a political problem which is under con-  sideration by the United Nations, The recommenda-  tion of the Cummittee is entirely in accord with past  decisions taken on this subject in the United Nations  and in other Speclalized Agencies, Since the 1956  revolution of the Hungarian people every United  Nations General Assembly has refused to accept the  credentials submitted by representatives of the pres-  ent régime in Hungary. By thus taking no decision  on their credentials, the General Assembly has placed  the Hungarian representatives in a provisional status  and, again this year, the same procedure was adopted  by the United Nations General Assembly. The United  States delegation recognizes that the adoption of its  proposal would make Rule 24 of the Rules of Proce-  dure of the General Conference of Unesco applicable,  which would permit the Hungarian delegation to parti-  cipate in the work of the General Conference with the  same rights as other delegates. This is the same  procedure as is followed in the United Nations General  Assembly, and again, Mr. President, I do not intend  to discuss the question of the qualifications of the  Hungarian régime to come before this Conference  because that is not the subject of our discussion here.
4.7 In summary, Mr. President, the United States  delegation supports thé recommendations of the  Credentials Committee, which are consistent with  the decisions of the United Nations General Assembly  both as regards Chinese representation and as regards  Hungaria: credentials, the same decisions which  were adopted overwhelmingly by the Unesco General  Conference at {ts tenth séssion in 1958, In urging  the approval of these recommendations, Mr, Presi-  dent, may I again emphasize a point which cannot be  repeated too often. There are millions of people in  the world waiting for us to get down to the business  of how the light of knowledge can be brought to them.  We have important work to do for them, let us get  on with it and not waste our time on political ques-  tions. Mr. President, I move the adoption of the  report of the Credentials Committee and its recom-  mendations,
5. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H.E. Mr. Kahuda, Head of the delega-  tion of Czechoslovakia, .
6.1 Mr. KAHUDA (Czechoslovakia) {Translation  from the Russian):  Mr, President and fellow delegates, on behalf of  the delegation of the Socialist Republic of  Czechoslovakia I consider it necessary to make the  following statement with regard to the Credentials  Comrnittee!s raport. At the previous session of  Unesco's General Conference, the Czechoslovak  delegation declared, and it now once more declares,  that the Government of the Socialist Republic of  Czechoslovakia recognizes only the credentials  issued by the lawful Chinése Government, namely  the Government of thé People's Republic of China.
6.2 In this connexion, I have to express the pro-  found anxiety of the Government of the Socialist  Republic of Czechoslovakia at the fact that, as a  result of the policy of discrimination followed by the  imperialist powers, led by the United States of R  America, the People's Republic of China, whose  population represents nearly one-quarter of the  entire human race, is not yet able to occupy its  rightful place in Unesco and so take part in the  Organization's work.
6.3 This policy of discrimination seriously pre-  judices our Organization's international prestige and  the results of its activities, Co-operation within  Unesco undoubtedly suffers from the fact that, in its  various organs, the representatives of the Chiang  Kai-shek clique, who do not represent anyone and  who owe their existence entirely to the military  occupation of Taiwan by the armed forces of the  United States of America, are allowed to speak on  behalf of China, The delegation of the Socialist  Republic of Czechoslovakia will therefore vote against  the Chiang Kai-shek representatives’ credentials.
6.4 The Czechoslovak delegation does not agree  with the proposal submitted by the representative  of the United States of America with respect to the  credentials of the delegation of the Hungarian  People's Republic. The Czechoslovak delegation  protests against this discrimination against an inde-  pendent People's democracy, which, by virtue of  its culture and economic development, is on an equal  footing with the other members of the great family  of States which are building socialism and striving  for lasting peace and the happiness of mankind as a  whole, .
6.5 The ‘zechoslovak delegation, on behalf of the  Czechoslovak Government and the people of  Czechoslovakia as a whole, is gratified at the in-  craage in the number of Unesco's Member States.  It is convinced that all the Member States whose  delegations! credentials we are accepting today will  help Unesco to fulfil its fundamental tasks - the  development of the culture and education of all  peoples, the fostering of the idea of peaceful co-  existence, and the achievement of general and com-  plete disarmament, that fervent desire of all man-  kind - thus enhancing Unesco's prestige among the  peoples throughout the world:
6.6 The Czechoslovak delegation sincerely wel-  comes all Unesco's hew Mamber States, and especi-  ally the representatives of the African countries,  The struggle for national liberation carried on for
80 many years, with enormous sacrifices, by those  peoples has not been waged {n vain but has ended in  victory. Many African States became effective   il PLENARY  members of the United Nations at the fifteenth session  of that Organization's General Assembly, The whole  Czechoslovak people warmly sympathizes with the  liberation movement in colonial countries, We are  concerned, as the Czechoslovak Parliament stated in  its message to the parliaments of the States which  have recently become independent, that th: time has  now come for all the countries of Africa and the other  continents to win their freedom and independence.  The victory over colonialism will thus be finally  secured. The Socialist Republic of Czechoslovakia  maintains wide contacts with a nurhber of free  countries of Asia and Africa on a basis of equality,  mutual respect, non-interference, mutual advantage  and friendship, and it is seeking to develop such  contacts further in every possible way.
6.7 The countries of Africa and Asia are the cradle  of all human culture. There is no doubt, for instance  that, In ancient times, several highly developed cul-  tures existed in the African continent. Some of them  disappeared of themselves, but most of them were  destroyed and annihilated by the colonizers through  cruel imperialist exploitation. The existence, in the  past, of a highly developed culture in Africa is con-  firmed not only by scientific hypotheses - which are  today generally accepted - such as the belief that the  beginnings of metallurgy are to be traced back to the  distant past in Africa, bul also by the highly developed  technique of bronze casting (lost- wax process) found  in the towns of Benin, Ife, etc, li not sufficient  proof likewise furnished by th¢ it'hodesian cave gallery,  several miles long, whose wai; aie covered with  drawings dating from antiquity to the present time?  Doee not the art of the Congo, Chad, Nigeria, the  Sudan and Dahomey show that the creative energy of  these peoples has not disappeared and that. in a free  society, it will revive and continue to develop thanks  to the immense vitality of the Negro peoples? Is not  one of the best proofs of this vitality to be found in  the fact that, despite slavery and subsequent segrega-  tion, it has produced that new art of the Negro  peoples, jazz?
6.8 It is our profound conviction that the collective  national consciousness of the peoples liberated from  colonialism will inspire them to make a new contribu-  tion to world culture. These countries which have  won their independence nced lasting peace above all  in order that they may do away with the unhappy  legacy of colonialism and strengthen and develop  their economy and culture. We are confident that  the new African States, together with all other peace-  loving States, will continue the struggle for peace  with the same energy as they brought to the fight for  their national liberation and independence.
6.8 The Czechoslovak delegation will therefore  vote for the acceptance of the credentials of delega-  tions to the eleventh session of Unesco's General  Conference.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  We have etill to hear eight speakers on this very  important question. May I ask them kindly to limit  their observations ac far as possible, to the real  subject of the discussion?
7.2 1call upon H,E. Mr. Lapin, Head of the  delegation of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics,
8.1 Mr, LAPIN (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian);  Mr, President and fellow delegates, the delega-  tion of the Soviet Union strongly objected at the  Credentials Committee's meeting, and now objects  at the plenary meeting, to that part of the Com-  mittee's report in which ft is proposed to recognize  as valid the credentials of the representatives of the  Chiang Kai-shek clique,
8,2 Contrary to international law, as well as tu  common sense, the Chiang Kai-shek representatives  have, for several years past, unlawfully occupied  the place of the Chinese people's representatives in  Unesco, although it is universally known that they  are political bankrupts who have long aince broken  all ties with the Chinese people and depend on the  support of foreign States. :
8.3 Why do the United States of America and their  allies of the military bloc refuse to recognize that  great, sovereign and independent State, the People's  Republic of China, and its representatives in Unesco,  and continue, as they have done for so many years,  to lavish their fai ours on the Chiang Kai-shek repre-  sentatives? Simply because China has become truly  a nation, truly Chinese, and because its Government  is a government in the real sense of the term, repre-  senting the will and aspirations of the Chinese people  as a whole,
8.4 [Everyone knows that China today is a great  and powerful State. The fear occasioned by the  emergence of a socialist China has evidently bereft  certain imperialist circles of their reason, so that  they are endeavouring to deny the existence of  Chinese China. Such a policy is naturally doomed  to failure. It has already suffered a cruel defeat.  The policy of certain circles, directed towards the  continuation of the cold war against a great sovereign  State - the People's Republic of China - is condemned  by all the peoples of the world. Furthermore, the  American people themselves have condemned this  policy and, at the recent elections, voted as a whole  against this policy and its advocates,
8.5 In spite of that, however, the delegation of  the United States is today still opposing the admis-  sion of the lawful government of the People's  Republic of China, and is endeavouring to use our  international Organization for its own interests and  political purposes. In this way, it is seeking to  divert Unesco's efforts from the vitally important  task of warking out and implemerting the practical  measures with which.our Organization should be  concerned,
8.6 Mr, Thayer, the representative of the United  States of America, would have us believe that we  cannot consider political questions in this assembly.  We cannot agree with this view, nor I imagine, can  other delegates.
8.7 Perhaps 1 may remind you of the speech made  on this subject by the representative of India, Mr.  Husain, at the last session of the General Conference  in 1958. I shall quote from the verbatim record.  On that occasion also, the American delegate had  maintained that, as the question had been considered  by the United Nations, it was impossible to discuss  it at the General Conference of Unesco. In reply,  Mr. Hugain, the representative of the great Indian  people, said that the fact that the United Nations   PLENARY  had postponed consideration of the question year after  year did not mean that we should follow suit without  further thought and proper consideration, "This, in  the view of my delegation," Mr. Husain said "is un-  warranted and does not do credit to our Organization,  Unesco is an independent organization, and its General  Conference controls its own procedure and is compe-  tent under the terms of its Constitution to decide all  such questions, without waiting for cues from else-  where".
8,8 So this question has not been invented by the  communist countries, but inevitably thrusts itself  upon us all. As Unesco is an independent organiza-  tion, how can it be maintained that the question of co-  operation of China's scientists, cultural leaders,  artists, teachers and cultural institutions should be  decided in New York at the United Nations, instead  of here in Paris, where Unesco has its headquarters?  Common sense protests against such a view.
8,9 Everyone knows that in China there is only one  government elected by the Chinese people, namely  the Central People's Government. It exercises abso-  lute power over the whole of China'a territory, with  the exception of certain offshore islands on which  Chiang Kat-shek's supporters, routed by the Chinese  people, are skulking under the protection of the  American fleet.
8.10 It is quite obvious that the only lawful repre-  sentative of China 18 a representative appointed by  the Central People's Government of the People's  Republic of China; this is a truth which is interna-  tionally recognized.
8,11 Mr. Thayer, the representative of the United  States of America, has told us that we should not con-  cern ourselves with political questions; but, today,  the President of the General Conference, the Chair-  man of the Executive Board and the Director-General  have all called upon us for co-operation, mutual  understanding and political tolerance, Fine things  have been said about brotherhood and co-operation;  but now we are told that political questions are for-  bidden ground to Unesco, We cannot agree with this  contention. We are in agreement with the speeches  we heard at the opening of the Conference, but not  with Mr. Thayer's speech. We cannu! shut our eyes  to these flagrant violations of international law and  common sense; we cannot be parties and accessories  to illegality.
8.12 Now, it is again proposed that we should  recognize the Chiang Kai-shek corpse as a living  organism; an attempt is again being made to force  upon us the scandalous decision to recognize the  Chiang Kai-shek men as the representatives of China;  but who is still ignorant of the fact that no self-  respecting international organization wants a political  corpse like the Chiang Kai-shek representative in  Unesco? He must be excluded from the Organization.
8.13 The Head of the Soviet delegation to the fifteenth  session of the United Nations General Assembly, Nikita  Sergeevich Khruschev, emphasized that the efforts of  the Government of the United States of America to re-  suscitate'a political corpse like Chiang Kai-shek and  his putrefying régime, repudiated by the Chinese  people, merely helped to poison the international situa-  tion. They also hamper Unesco's activities.
8.14 If our Organization intends to develop further -  and we have no doubts on this matter.- it must, when  MEETINGS Il  deciding such questions, take account of the actual  pattern of forces in the present-day world, It is  impossible to speak seriously of ' collaboration  among all the peoples of the world in the fields of  education, science and culture" and, at the same  time, exclude from such collaboration the miilions  of citizens of China, whose dcience and culture are  of immense internaticnal importance,
8.15 Fellow delegates, at the present time a cul-  tural revolution unparalleled in history is taking  place in the People's Republic of China, embracing  all sections of the population, In present-day China,  science and technology are advancing by leaps and  bounds, and the People's Republic of China already  has great achievements to its credit in the fields of  education, science and culture. Throughout the many  centuries of China's history, no Chinese government  has ever been able to solve its vitally important  basic economic and cultural problems as the present  government is so successfully doing. Nothing that  Unesco does can bear its full fruits unless account  is taken of the Chinese people's wealth of experience  and unless its rightful representatives take part in  the work,
8.16 We have no doubt that the representatives of  Unesco's Member States will rightly appraise the  actual world situation and the part played by the  People's Republic of China in international affairs,  and will not permit the question of China's lawful  rights to be used for unworthy political purposes.  The delegation of the Soviet Union considers it essen-  tial to state once more that the Chiang Kai-shek  representatives are unlawfully occupying China's  seat in Unesco, and it categorically protests against  this injustice. Only a representative designated by  the Central People's Government of the People's  Republic of China can be accepted as China's lawful  representative in Unesco, I request, Mr. President,  that my proposal be voted on separately from the  general resolution concerning the Credentials Com-  mittee's report.
8.17 The delegation of the Soviet Union also  strongly prolests against the attempt to throw doubt  on the credentials of the delegation of the Hungarian  People's Republic. The United States representa-  tive, who today impugned the Hungarian delegation's  credentials is obviously well aware of the complete  worthlessness of the instructions which he received  before his departure for this Conference. If is evi-  dent that this attitude on the part of the United States  delegation is not conducive to a spirit of collabora-  tion and to an improvement in international relations,  and is incompatible with the appeal for mutual under-  standing which was addressed to us today at the  opening of the Conference, _
8.18 The objections concerning the Hungarian  delegation's credentials are far-fetched and grossly  tendentious and there is no need to dwell on such an  obvious fact. The delegation of the Soviet Union  calis upon the delegates to the eleventh session of  Unesco's General Conference to reject the United  States proposal concerning the non-recognition of  the credentials of the delegation of the Hungarian  People's Republic, for the adoption of such a pro-  posal would be extremely detrimental to the prestige  of our Organization, whose mission is *o promote  international co-operation in the fields of education,   Il PLENARY  science and culture, I move that the United States  proposal, which was thrust upon the Credentials Com-  mittee, be not discussed further.
8.19 The Soviet delegation is not opposed to the  Credentials Committee's report as a whole, but only  to those points to which I have referred, In his  speech Mr, Thayer saw fit to remark that, if we dis-  cuss this question in detail, he will speak again, This  seems to be something of a threat, but we must in-  form Mr, Thayer that we are not afrald to discuss  this question and are prepared to expatiate on it at  length.
9. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H,E. Mr, Mac Kay, Head of the  Argentine delegation.
10,1 Mr, MAC KAY (Argentina) (Translation from  the Spanish):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all  I wish to thank the General Conference, on behalf of  my country, Argentina, for the honour of having been  appointed to serve on the Credentials Committee.
10.2 We were accordingly present this morning at  the Committee's first meeting, wlien it adopted the  recommendations which are now ! efore this plenary  meeting.
10.3 I wish to explain very brizfly, in compliance  with the President's request, th: reasons for our  vote in favour of acceptance of the credentials of the  Republic of China,
10,4 In voting thus, Argentina has remained true  to its traditional policy in this matter, adopting the  same attitude as it did when the question was dis-  cussed in the United Nations, which is the organiza-  tion competent to deal with political questions.
10.5 In accordance with this policy, Argentina will  again vote in favour of the Credentials Committee's  proposals, just asit voted for the decisions adopted in  this matter by the United Nations.
11. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H.E. Mr. Romero, Head of the delega-  tion of the Philippines.
12.1 Mr. ROMERO (Philippines): ,  Mr, President, delegates, on behalf of the delega-  tion of the Philippines I shall speak very briefly in  support of the report of thé Credentials Committee.  On the proper occasion I shall extend the greetings  of my delegation to the newly accredited delegates of  Africa and Asia, of which we are part, and shall also  have occasion to discuss some of the more important  problems before this Conference. Now, we wish only  to say that we believe the point raised here to be a  political one, and that Unesco is not the proper forum  for the resolution of such questions, If we went into  this question we would have very little time left for  the solution of the very important and pressing prob-  lems before this Conference,
12,2 It has been my privilege to have represented  my country in many Specialized Agencies of the  United Nations, the International Sugar Agreement,  the International Wheat Agreement, the General  Agreement on Trade and Tariffs. Invariably, in the  matter of credentials, these organizations have  followed a precedent set by the United Nations  \
58  MEETINGS  concerning identical questions, I express the opinion,  therefore, on behalf of my delegation, that the United  Nations having spoken on the matter of the representa-  tion of China and the credentials of Hungary, we  should be well advised to abide by this decision of  the General Assembly of the United Nations,
13. ‘The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 call upon HE, Mr, Sliprhenko, Hes.d of the  Ukrainian delegation,
14,1 Mr, SLIPCHENKO (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr, President and fellow delegates, the delega-  tion of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic first  wishes to add its voice - the voice of a nation of  forty-two million people - to those of the other  delegations which have spoken on the Credentials  Committee's report, and whole-heartedly congratu-  lates Unesco on the further remarkable increase  which has occurred in our large family of nations.  This event is of the greatest political importance.  Unesco is steadily coming closer to being a truly  universal organization, and this is to be welcomed  unreservedly.
14.2 What is of paramount importance is the fact  that all these new Member States of Unesco are  young countries which have been through long periods  of heavy colonial oppression and have only recently  won their independence, The fact that these States  have subscribed to the United Nations Charter and  the Unesco Constitution, in our opinion, marks one  of the most important stages in the consolidation of  their political independence and the establishment  of co-operation on an equal footing with the other  countries of the world,
14,3 The simultaneous admission to Unesco of  such a large number of newly independent States of  the African continent is an event of paramount im-  portance, principally because their presence here as  full members of our international organization re-  flects the great changes that are now taking place at  such a speed in the life of mankind. It can confidently  be said that the day is not far distant when the last  victim of colonialism will be liberated from his  chains, when the peoples still suffering under colonial  oppression will take their place in international  organizations on an equal footing with others,
14.4 This is the inexorable advance of history and  Unesco must keep pace with the times if it is not to  lag behind the headlong march of events. These re-  marks have a direct bearing on the work of the  Credentials Committee, which, by certifying the  credentials of Unesco's new Member States, is, as  it were, registering the death of colonialism,
14.5 In this connexion, I feel I must draw atten-  tion to an extremely significant fact. I have in front  of me document UNESCO/11 C/INF/2 (Invitations to  the eleventh session of the General Conference),  dated 16 June 1960, Section C (Non-Self Governing  Territories) of this document reads as follows: "In  pursuance of the authorization given to the Director-  General by the Executive Board at ita 56th session,  the Director-General has invited the following  States, in respect of which the Government of France  has presented a request for admission as Associate  Members, to send observers’ - I emphasize the   PLENARY  word observers - "to the General Conference:  Federation of Mall (Sudan, Senegal), Malagasy  Republic, Gabon Republic, Republic of Chad, Central  African Republic, Republic of the Ivory Coast,  Republic of Niger, Republic of Dahoniey" .
14.6 As you can see, only last June these States  were being graciously permitted to send observers  to the General Conference with a view to their ad-  mission as Associate Members, with the authoriza-  tion of the‘French Government, whereas, today, we  are welcoming these States as full Members of our  Organization, The march of history has indeed been  rapid! The last leaves had not yet fallen from the  plane trees on the Paris boulevards, the ink had not  yet dried on the said Unesco document, when it be-  came necessary to reprint it in order to keep pace  with life, in ordér to make the document reflect the  new situation; and what a grand and significant situa-  tion! -We are all for such "Revisions"; may there  be more of them!
14.7 We must, however, be consistent in all our  actions and in all our decisions. Having ratified the  credentials of a large number of newly admitted  countries, i.e. having acted quite reasonably and in  complete accord with the behests of the times, we  were naturally entitled to expect that the Credentials  Committee would display similar good sense in all  other cases and, in complete harmony with the needs  of the day and with political expediency, would pro-  pose the entirely logical step of rejecting the so-  called credentials of the Chiang Kai-shek political  corpses, after giving them the usual death certificate  if it were still required,
14,8 Against the background of such a joyful, vivi-  fying event as that which has just taken place in the  admission to our Organization of the young, entirely  creative forces and inexhaustible potential energy of  the African countries, the attempt by some members  of the Credentials Committee to galvanize and re-  surrect corpses is an anachronism, a piece of non-  sense so great that, as we say in the Ukraine, "it  cannot get in either through the fence or through the  gate". Truly, we have here a corpse clutching a  live manl
14.9 You will excuse the comparison which I am  now obliged to make, but I and my many colleagues  have the impression ‘that we, the representatives of  many countries of the world, gathered here to dis-  cuss extremely important and urgent questions, are,  thanks to the delegation of the United States of  America (and how often this has already happened! ),  being forced from the very outset to divert our atten-  tion from our main work in order to takë part in  some sort of spiritualistic seance: the delegation of  the United States of Ameriéa proposes that we should  recognize as the real representatives of China cer-  tain Chiang Kai-shek ghoste called up from the other  world, where, in fact, they have been living for the  past twelve years, ever since the glorious victory of  ‘the people's revolution in China,
14,10 How much longer is this spiritualistic farce,  with the calling up of spirits - which is unworthy of  any self-respecting international organization - going  to continue? Is it not time to put an end to this  mockery of history, life and common sense? Iam  profoundly convinced that, among all those present  at this meeting, including the members of the
59  MEETINGS i  Credentials Committee and the delegation of the  United States of America, there is not a single per-  son who does not know perfectly well who in fact  represents the great Chinese people: the Government  of the People's Republic of China or these Chiang  Kai-shek ghosts whom certain persons are vainly  endeavouring to reguscitate politically for the  narrowly egoistical ends of th> United States of  America and in the pursuit of \Jans which have  nothing in common with the aitis set forth in Unesco's  Constitution or with our Organization's lofty responsi-  bilities,
14,11 It may well be asked how much longer the  fiction of Chinese representation, both in the United  Nations and Unesco will, wider pressure from the  United States, be artificially brought up in connexion  with each new report of the Credentials Committee  or when moneys are scandalously, almost forcibly,  extorted from Member States for the purpose of  paying the contributions of the bankrupt Chiang Kai-  shek clique? Is it not time to put an end to this by  recognizing the inescapable fact that there is only  one China, the China where six hundred and fifty  million Chinese are living and organizing a new  existence for themselves - authentic patriots, who  have themselves committed supreme authority to  their only legal government, established in the  capital of their great country, Pekin, This fact is  becoming ever clearer and more patent and the day  of its full recognition is coming ever closer; but  you, gentlemen, by voting unanimously against the  recognition of the credentials of the Chiang Kai-shek  representatives can and should make this very day  the day of justice.
14.12 The representative of Argentina and the  representative of the Philippines have said that the  question of China's representation should first be  settled by the United Nations, that it is a strictly  political question which, in general, is not a matter  for Unesco. Is it possible, however, in our day,  for such a reputable organization as Unesco to  imitate the ostrich and, hiding behind purely formal  considerations and procedural artifices, pretend  that political questions of the greatest importance,  which are disturbing everyone, one of which is  certainly the question of the representation of China,  do not concern Unesco? And I can assure the repre-  sentative of the Philippines that it is not the social-  ist countries which have obliged the Conference to  divert its attention from the agenda; he addressed  his remarks to the wrong quarter,
14.13 Let Unesco, which has inscribed on its  banner the noble ideals of universality and justice,  be consistent in all things, particularly in its deci-  sions, and let it show that it is true to those ideals.  Let it, just as unanimously as it has welcomed the  representatives of the young African countries,  reject the unlawful and unnatural recommendation  made by the majority of thé Credentials Committee  under pressure from the delegation ôf the United  States of Amierica with respect to the so-called  credentials of the Chiang Kai-shek clique.
14.14 In conclusion, I am authorized to state that  the delegation of the Ukrainian Soviet S~cialist  Republic deeply regrets that the Conference should  have been obliged to consider, even indirectly, the  question of the credentials of the lawful delegates.’   Il PLENARY MEETINGS  of the Hungarian People's Republic, It is quite ob-  vious to any unbiased person that there are no grounds  whatever for throwing the shadow of a doubt on the  competence of the delegation of the Hungarian People's  Republic. I therefore protest categorically not only  against the very mention of the Hungarian delegation's  credentials in the report, but also against this further  attempt to use Unesco, as in the case of the Chiang  Kai-shek representatives, for the purposes of politi-  cal machinations, I speak out in defence of the purity  of the principles proclaimed in our Organization's  Constitution,
15. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon Mr, Ujlaki of the Hungarian delegation.
16.1 Mr. UJLAKI (Hungary) (Translation from the  French);  Mr. President, allow me, on behalf of the delega-  tion of the Hungarian People's Republic, to protest  strongly against that part of the Credentials Com-  mittee's report which deals in a discriminating way  with our delegation's credentials, The existence of  the Hungarian People's Republic and the legality of  its Government are fully recognized by public opinion  everywhere. Our country maintains diplomatic rela-  tions with Unesco's Member States in all parts of the  world. At our invitation, Heads of foreign States and  many distinguished persons from various countries -  including several members of Unesco's Executive  Board - have visited our country in recent years and  hundreds of journalists have stayed inHungary. All  these people have had the opportunity to appreciate  thatlife inour countryand its economic and cultural  development are proceeding on perfectlynormal lines.
16.2 Our Government has always co-operated  closely, and continues to do so, with a large number  of international organizations, and particularly with  Unesco. Only recently, with Unesco's assistance,  we organized a regional conference of European  countries in Budapest to discuss the international  exchange of publications.
16,3 Mr. President, we feel bound to express our  opinion that, in certain international organizations,  the discriminatory recommendations concerning the  Hungarian delegation's credentials are due to the  initiative - entirely without any moral or legal justi-  fication - of a great imperialist power. This great  power cannot forgive us for our socialist régime, or  for our Government's peaceful policy. Nevertheless,  with all due respect to the representative of the  United States Government, the Hungarian people's  decision in this respect is not provisional, but final,  and nothing will prevent it from continuing on the  course it has freely chosen,
16.4 The alarming fact, however, is that this  great power wishes to oblige our General Conference  to share its resentment and political dissatisfaction.  Such attempts are liable to place Unesco, whose  mission is to pursue noble, universal aims, in the  dangerous position of being forced to serve the parti-  cular political interests of one of its Member States.  This strikes a serious blow not only at the prestige  of the State concerned but also at the respect which  our Organization commands. I feel it unnecessary  to emphasize that such behaviour has a detrimental  effect on the international atmosphere.
16,5 Regarding the representation of China, we  consider it outrageous that the plate of the, great  and cultured Chinese people in this important Inter-  national organization, instead of b2ing occupied by  the only constitutional government which represents  them, should be usurped by a clique of adventurers  who are bartering away the interests of the Chinese  people, This, in our view, is also one of the conse-  quences of the United States policy, which is against  human and social progress all over the world and  hampers the constructive work of the United Nations  and of all other international organizations, For  many years, this policy has been preventing the  delegates who are alone qualified to represent the  Chinese people and culture from occupying their  rightful place in international organizations,  including Unesco,
16,6 The Hungarian delegation, in full agreement  with the overwhelming majority of mankind, coa-  demns this policy and protests against the participa-  tion of the Chiang Kai-shek clique in Unesco's work.  The Hungarian delegation is profoundly convinced  that these regrettable and unacceptable intrigues  cannot continue indefinitely and that the time is not  far off when such discriminatory and inadmissible  practices, which are already rejected by the vast  majority of mankind, will also be impossible in  international organizations.
17. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon Mr, Dumitrescu of the Rumanian  delegation.
18.1 Mr, DUMITRESCU (Rumania) (Traaslation  from the French);  Mr. President, fellow delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, the Credentials Committee has presented  its report. The recognition of the credentials of the  newly admitted States - I am referring to the African  States which have becorne members of the Organiza-  tion - is certainly something positive, another step  towards making Unesco universal, a3 was empha-  sized today by the Direcinpr-General.
18.2 Allow me, on bs‘talf ol'the Rumanian delega-  tion, to address a warn greeting to the representa-  tives of the new Member States and to wish them  every success in their efforts to promote thé cultural  and social development of their countries and to  neutralize as soon as possible the harmful effects  of many centuries of colonial oppression. We are  persuaded that the new States now given the oppor-  tunity to take part in Unesco's activities will, in so  doing, make a valuable contribution to the treasures  of world culture and thus advance the cause of peace.  That is undoubtedly a further step towards making  Unesco genuinely universal.
18.3 But this shows up in an even more serious  light the blows aimed at this very principle of  universality; I refer iu particular to the practice,  imposed by the United States of America of excluding  from Unesco couniries whose presence amongst us  is urgently needed, I shall take, first of all, the  case of the People's Republic of China, whose place  in Unesco is atill occupied by the representatives of  a phantom government protected by certain foreign  States. Unerco wishes to be - and must be - a uni-  versal organization; but, at the same time, it   PLENARY  excludes from {ts activities a people representing’  one-quarter of the world's population, - Unesco sain-  cerely desires to implement the East-West Major  Project, but of what good is a knowledge of the East  if it excludes the Chinese people? We regret to note  that the Credentials Committee once again recom-  mends recognition of the credentials of the Chiang  Kai-shek representatives. Still worse, it is even  proposed to give them a bonus by allowing them to  take part in the General Conference's work with the  right to vote, although they have not paid their contri-  bution for years,
18,4 Moreover, the number of countries which  have voted for the admission of the People's Republic  of China to membership of our Organization has  recently increased considerably. This is a great  sign of the times, which should not be overlooked.
18.5 That 1s why the Rumanian delegation fs abso-  lutely opposed to practices such as those which I  have just mentioned and requests you to reject the  proposal to accept the credentials of the Chiang Kai-  shek representatives, It urges you to unseat these  representatives,
18.6 The Rumanian delegation is also against the  United States proposal, adopted by the Credentials  Committee, not to recognize the credentials of the  delegation of the Hungarian People's Republic, This  question has been raised once again by the United  States of America for political reasons, in order to  force our Organization to practise discrimination, in  violation, not only of the Constitution, but also of the  principle of the universality of Unesco,
18.7 Hungary is a member of our Organization,  and its representatives, delegated by the sovereign  Government of that country, are fully entitled to take  part in the work of the General Conference. We  therefore request that the Hungarian delegation's  credentials be accepted.
18.8 If we really want the General Conference's  work to proceed in accordance with the declarations  made during the first plenary meeting, and if we wish  the great tasks incumbent upon the Organization to be  carried out in a constructive manner, compatible  with peaceful coexistence, we must, at the very out-  set, refuse to admit any violation of Unesco's  Constitution. Having made these critical remarks  on fundamental issues, and convinced that it is serv-  ing the aims of Unesco, the Rumanian delegation re-  quests that a separate vote be taken on each of the  items in the report of the Credentials Committee.
18.  I call upon H.E., Mr, Cheng Tien-Fong, Head of  the Chinese delegation.
20.1 Mr, CHENG Tien-Fong (China);  Mr. President, fellow delegates, at the very  beginning, I want to point out to you the relations  between China and Unesco. In 1946, when the first  session of the Unesco General Conference was held  in Paris, the then French Minister of National  Education remarked in his speech of welcome that  China was the first country at the San Francisco  Conference of 1945 to suggest the idea of international  co-operation 111 the field of culture and education,  within the frame of the United Nations. Next, I wish  to say something about my personal relations with  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French);
61  MEETINGS  I  Unesco. l'attended the constituent Conference in
1945 in London and the first session of the General  Conference in 1946 in Paris. In June 1951, I  attended the sixth session of the General Conference  of Unesco as the Head of the Chinese delegation,  Nine and a half years have elapsed, and I am here  again to attend the eleventh session, How fast time  flies and yet what happened then is still vivid in my  mind, I am glad to find familiar faces among the  delegates and hope to develop new friendships with  others.
20,2 It is expected that the delegate from the  Soviet Union and other communist bloc nations will  endeavour to oust the Republic of China from Unesco,  and to invite the communist régime of Peiping to  join, What surprises me {s the slanderous and  malicious language they have used about the Govern-  ment of the Republic of China aud {ta leader, which  even uneducated persons should know enough to  refrain from using in such a solemn and dignified  international gathering, I will not degrade myself  or my country to such a low level as to follow their  example in name calling, but I must refute their  argument concerning China's representation.
20,3 In the first place, they argue that since the  communist régime at Peiping rules 600 million  Chinese people, therefore that régime and not the  Government of the Republic of China should repre-  sent China in Unesco, This premise is misleading  and entirely false, It is true that since December
1949 the Government of the Republic of China has  established itself in Taiwan, But it is still recog-  nized as the legal government of China by the  majority of the sovereign States, and by the United  Nations and all its Specialized Agencies. All the  freedom loving peoples in the world are in sympathy  with us in our struggle for freedom and justice. The  Chinese Government has a National Assembly and a  Legislative Yuan, whose members were elected by  the Chinese people, and a Control Yvan whose mem-  bers were elected by the legislatures of all the  Chinese provinces; These representative organs’  are still functioning in Taiwan and President Chiang  Kai-shek was elected by the National Assembly to  serve his third term only half-a-year ago. On the  other hand, ‘the so-called Central Government of the  People's Republic of China, although it has controlled  the Chinese mainland for eleven years, is nothing  but a puppet régime of the Soviet Union just as the  Quisling régime in Norway during the Second World  War was a puppet régime of Nazi Germany, The  communist régime rules, not with the consent of the  people, but by sheer force, It has deprived the  Chinese people of every right and liberty, On the  Chinese mainland there it no freedom of speech, no  freedom of press, no freedom of assembly and even  no freedom of worship. Tha'Chinese communists  have cowed the people into submission by terror.  Tens of millions of people have been liquidated while  other tens of millions have been drafted as slave  labour. Owing to their tyrannical rule, people have  lost the incentive to work; crops are usually poor  and flood and famine occur frequently. As a conse-  quence, the great majority of the Chinese people  are suffering from hunger and millions have died  from starvation, Since 1950 several million  Chinese have fled and others are still fleeing from   Il PLENARY  the mainland to Taiwan, Hong Kong, Macao, the  South East Asian countries end even to Europe and  America, Many millions more would have fled too,  if thay had the chance. The Chinese people intensely  hate the communist régime and resort to active re-  sistance whenever and wherever possible, All these  facts prove that if the Chinese people had a chance to  express their free will by voting, the communist  régime would be overthrown by an overwhelming  majority.
20.4 Secondly, they assert that Chinese culture  must be represented in Unesco, therefore the  communist régime should be admitted, To say that  the puppet régime at Peiping stands for Chinese cul-  ture is ridiculous and farcical. That régime is not  only un-Chinese, but anti-Chirese, in so far as our  culture and our heritage are concerned. It hus sup-  pressed academic freedom so that all Chinese child-  ren and young people have been trained to put their  thought in a straitjacket to conform to the communist  party line, Teachers and professors who dare to de-  viate from this path in their teaching are at once dis-  missed or even put into concentration camps, Education  in the Chirese mainland has been thus degraded to  brain washing, By establishing communes the  communists have taken children away from their  parents and have thus broken traditional family tles.  Confucierrdsm which teaches righteousness, social  justice, the dignity of man and universal brotherhood,  and has been the corner-stone of Chinese culture for  more than 2,000 years, is now suppressed, Confucius  has been labelled a reactionary and his classics have  been forbidden to circulate. Will you, ladies and  gentlemen, think for a moment that such an anti-  Chinese régime 1s qualified to represent Chiria and  Chinese culture in this international organization?  No, certainly not, the centre of Chinese culture is  now undoubtedly in Taiwan, The Chinese Government,  despite its financial difffculties has done its best to  promote education and culture, I have no time to re-  count the details of educational progress in Taiwan,  and wish to say merely that while we teach science  and modern technical knowledge in our schools and  colleges, we also emphasize our Chinese heritage;..  Confucian philosophy, traditional moral traits and  family life. By learning from the West and at the  same time preserving our heritage we hope to be able  to contribute our share to world civilization.
20.5 Mr, President, fellow delegates, I have pre-  sented these salient facts to you in order to help you  understand the true nature of the question at hand. I  request that the report of the Credentials Committee  be speedily adopted in toto, so that the Conference  can proceed with important business,
21, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H,E, Mr. Singare Abdoulaye, Head of  the delegation of the Republic of Mali,
22, Mr. ABDOULAYE (Mali) (Translation from  the French):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, as my  country, the Republic of Mali, is today taking part  in the work of this assembly for the first time, I  would not have asked to speak, had I not, when  listening to the report of the Credentials Committee  a few moments ago, noticed an omission concerning  MEETINGS  our delegation, And this, despite the fact that we  were duly informed of the approval of our delega-  tion's admission to Unesco and deposited our creden-  tials with the Secretariat as soon as we arrived this  morning. Forgive me for raising this question, but
1 should like to know what has happened to our  credentials,
23, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French);  I call upon Mr, Matsui, Chairman of the Credentials  Committee,
24. Mr, MATSUI (Japan), Chairman of the  Credentials Committee (Translation from the  French):  Mr. President, in accordance with the decision  taken at this morning's meeting by the Committee,  which instructed me to report direct to the Conference  on the subject of any credentials received after that  meeting, I am glad to inform you that credentials  have been deposited by two governments, including  that of the Republic of Mali, whose delegate has just  raised a question in this connexion and whose creden-  tials, in good and due form, arrived this morning  after the Committee's meeting, We have also re-  ceived provisional credentials from the Government  of Costa Rica.
25, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  We have noted your communication, Mr, Chair-  man of the Credentials Committee. I now call upon  H.E. Father Rapailler, Head of the Haitian delega-  tion and Minister of Education of Haiti.
26.1 Father RAPAILLER (Haiti) (Translation  from the French):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, all countries  have already hailed the emergence of the young  nations into the light of independence. We Haitians,  who were the first negro people in the world to be-  come free, would be most ungracious if we failed  to add our voice to the chorus of praise accompany-  ing the admission of our kinsmen to the family of  nations. In our opinion, Unesco should approve the  Republic of China's right to vote. It is not the num-  ber of its inhabitants that gives a nation thé.right to  live, but rather its intrinsic value as a racial and  political entity. The Republic n{ China has not dis-  appointed Unesco by its behaviour, by its social  programme, or by the human ideal for which it  stands and which has won it international respect.  I therefore urge this assembly and the negro peoples  not to allow themselves to be influenced either today  or tomorrow or the day after tornorrow, or on any  other day of the present Conference, by feelings  rather than by positive facts, by probabilities rather  than by actual evidence.
26.2 The time allotted to the Conference is barely  sufficient to enable us to consider important and  urgent questions; let us not waste it therefore, in  discussing matters with which the Conference is not  competent to deal, ,
26.3 As someone sald here yesterday, it is  Unesco's aim and duty to unite and not divide, In  this respect, both the facts and the evidence justify  our maintaining full confidence in the Republic of  China, which, through its existence in the world   PLENARY  and in Unesco, continues to provide a torch to illu-  mine civilization, and is the active protagonist of an  outlook necessary for the peace of mankind,
27.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French)  Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion of the  Credentials Committee's report is closed, We have  now to vote on the matter, Only {wo parts of this re-  port have been contested; the part relating to the  credentials of the Chinese delegation and the part re-  lating to those of the Hungarian delegation, The rest  of the report has not given rise to any objections. 1  therefore have the honour to propose that you should  approve all that part of the report which does not re-  late to these two questions, in order to clarify our  discussion and clear the way, as it were. If the meet-  ing accepts this proposal, we shall be able to consider  as adopted the whole of Mr, Matsui's report, save for  the parts relating to the Chinese and Hungarian dele-  gations.
27.2 1 consider the proposal as approved; the whole  of the report with the exception of the two questions  at issue, is therefore adopted.
27.3 We have now to deal with the two questions  under dispute. The first, relating to the Chinese  delegation, is the subject of a proposal in the Creden-  tials Committee's report; I feel { should again read  out this proposal in order to clarify the discussion.  The Committee recommends that you adopt the follow-  ing proposal:  "The General Conference,  Decides not to consider, at its eleventh session,  any proposals to exclude the representatives of the  Government of the Republic of China or to seat the  representatives of the Central People's Government  of the People's Republic of China;  Decides to reject the objection made to the creden-  tials of the representatives of the Republic of China",
27.4 I think that we should first take a decision on  this part of the report. We shall proceed to a vote  by roll-call, as this has been requested by more than  two delegations.
28. (The vote wag taken by roll-call:  Voted in favour: Argentina, Australia, Belgium,  Brazil, Cameroun, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa  Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador,  France, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece,  Guatemala, Haiti, Iran, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Korea,  Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Luxembourg, Federation  of Malaya; Mexico, Monaco, Netherlands, New  Zealand, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines,  Spain, Thailand, Turkey, United Kingdom, United  States of America, Uruguay, Venezuéla, Viet-Nam.  Voted against: Afghanistan, Albania, Bulgaria,  Burma, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Ceylon,  Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Finland, Guinea,  Hungary, India, Indonesia, Mali, Morocco, Nepal,  Norway, Poland, Rumania, Senegal, Sudan, Sweden,  Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics, United Arab Republic, Yugoslavia.  Abstained: Austria, Cambodia, Central African  Republic, Congo (capital: Brazzaville), Dahomey,  Ghana, Israel, Ivory Coast, Laos, Malagasy Republic,  Republic of Niger, Federation of Nigeria, Switzerland,  Tunisia, Upper Volta.  Absent: Ethiopia, Iraq, Panama, Saudi Arabia).
63  MEETINGS II
20,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French):  The result of the vote is as follows: in favour 43;  against 27; abstentions 15; absent 4, The Credentials  Committee's proposal relating to China is thus ap-  proved.
28,2 There remains the second question under dis-  pute. I would remind you that the Credentials Com-  mittee has recommended that the General Conference  should not take any decision concerning the creden-  tials submitted by the Hungarian delegation, I wish  to make quite clear that this proposal does not imply  any withdrawal of rights from the Hungarian delega-  tion, If I may venture to do so, I should like to  point out that the proposal simply endorses the atti-  tude which, if I am not mistaken, was adopted by the  United Nations, The adoption of the report will not,  of course, deprive Hungary of its right to take part  in the discussions of the present session of the  General Conference,
29,3 Bearing this in mind, we shall now proceed  to a further vote by roll-call,
30. Mr, LAPIN (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr. President, permit me to make one remark:  your comment on the voting procedure was not quite  accurate. You emphasized that the vote would not  deprive Hungary of the right to take part in our pro-  ceedings. It is true that this was proposed by the  American delegation, but, for objectivity's sake, it  should be added that, by voting in favour of this  proposal, we shall nevertheless be allowing discrimina-  tion against the Hungarian People's Republic and its  representatives. It must therefore be borne in mind  that a vote in favour of the American delegation's  proposal is definitely detrimental to the Hungarian  delegation.
31.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French):  I should like to remind the Head of the delegation  of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics that I  simply made a few, very brief comments on the  relevant part of the Credentials Cornmittee's report  and, in order that there shall be no doubt in the  minds of the delegates - for my intention was merely  to clarify the purpose of the vote - I shall read out  the corresponding passage of the report adopted  this morning by the Committee:  "The Committee then proceeded to examine the  proposals relating to the credentials of the Hungarian  delegation, By 5 votes to 2 and 1 abstention, the  Committee decided to vote first on the proposal sub-  mitted by the delegation of the United States of  America, When put to the vote, this proposal was  adopted by 5 votes to 2 with 1 abstention. The Com-  mittee noted that, as the purpose of the vote was not  to recommend the invalidation of the Hungarian dele-  gation's credentials, that delegation could, if the  General Conference decided to accept the Committee's  recommendation, take part provisionally in the work  of the General Conference with the same rights as  the other representatives, That 18 a clear state-  ment. It would obviously have been better - and I  apologize for this to the assembly - for me simply  to have read out this section of the report. 1 thought
11 PLENARY MEETINGS  it my duty to sum ft up; but I do not think that I gave  a wrong interpretation of it, I therefore regard this  small inéident as closed,
31.2 With your agreement we shall now proceed to  the vote,
32, (The vote was taken by roll-call;  Voted in favour: Argentina, Australia, Austria,  Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa  Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, France, Federal  Republic of Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Iran,  Italy, Japan, Jordan, Korea, Liberia, Luxembourg,  Mexico, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand,  Nicaragua, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Spain,  Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, United Kingdom,  United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela,  Viet-Nam,  Voted against; Afghanistan, Albania, Bulgaria,  Burma, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,  Cambodia, Ceylon, Congo (capital; Brazzaville),  Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Finland, Ghana,  Guinea, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Israel, Mali,  Morocco, Nepal, Norway, Poland, Rumania,
64  Senegal, Sudan, Sweden, Jkrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,  United Arab Republic, Yugoslavia,  Abstained: Cameroun, Central African Republic,  Dahomey, Dominican Republic, Haiti, Ivory Coast,  Laos, Lebanon, Libya, Malagasy Republic,  Federation of Malaya, Republic of Niger, Federation  of Nigeria, Tunisia, Upper Volta.  Absent; Ethiopia, Iraq, Panama, Saudi Arabia),
33,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French}:  The result of the vote is as follows; in favour 39;  against 31; abstentions 15; absent 4, The Committee's  proposal is therefore adopted.
33.2 We have still to take a decision on the report  as a whole. If there is no objection, it is unneces-  sary to proceed to a vote.
33.3 The report of the Credentials Committee is  thus adopted as a whole.
33.4 The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 6,30 p.m.