24 November 1960, at 3.45 p,m.  President: Mr. Ziada ARBAB (Sudan)  CONTENTS  General discussion of the reports of the Director-General  (continued) . . . .  GENERAL DISCUSSION OF THE REPORTS OF  THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL (continued)  The PRESIDENT:  I declare the meeting open and I call upon H. E.  Mr. Borda, Head of the delegation of Colombia.
2.1 Mr. ZALAMEA BORDA (Colombia) (Translation  from the Spanish):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, during this dis-  cussion on the report of the Director-General we  have listened to the representatives of many nations;  we have heard the sound of many languages; we have  listened with interest and respect to the exposition  of ideas, the submission of proposals and the  exchange of opinions; yet also part of the limited  and valuable time available for our discussions has  been taken up by sound and fury.’ That may occur  elsewhere, but this home of education, science and  culture should debar uncontrolled outbursts of  nationalism, which consort ill with affirmations and  aspirations of universality, and embittered faneti-  cism which, with sectarian fervour, asserts that  anything outside ita own narrow and exclusive credo  is contrary to truth and bears the stamp of tyranny  and injustice.  %.2 dowever, this must not deter, but rather  stimulate us to work for the cause for which we  expressed with a moderation of thought and language -  our intention of working when we first subscribed to  the Constitution of the Organization. The first of  our objectives Is to construct the defences of peace  in the rninds of men. These defences must certainly  be freedom, justice, human rights, in short,  tolerance, which I venture to believe embraces and  confines all these values, for what true freedom can  there be without tolerance? Can justice be strictly  applied without it, and can human rights have any  meaning in theory or in practice unless they are  constantly inspired by this fine virtue?
2.3 Our great task as workers for peace cannot  achieve success if we employ the wrong materials.  No one could erect a durable structure on crumbling  foundations and what could be less stable than a  building constructed by intolerance on a swamp of  distrust, uncertainty and fear?
2.4 We are met here to consider the results of
275  work done, to reveal and correct its defects and to  prepare a programme for the immediate future. The  speakers who preceded me devoted themselves to  this task and I can only follow them in their laudable  endeavour in a very general way, mainly for the  reason that I wish my words to be approved by the  watchful eye of Graciän who recommended brevity to  every serious writer.
2.5 Not even the most optimistic among us can  believe that Unesco approaches anywhere near  perfection. Fortunately, its structural, human and  procedural faults are remediable. This Organization  can be perfected and the ability to perfect it is in our  hands. If we find that it falls far short of our ideal,  that is because it faithfully reflects its constituent  elements, us ourselves with all our faults, conflicts  and disagreements, but alse - and about this let  there be no false modesty - with certain qualities  which we must promote above those faults, so that  the balance may be tipped in favour of the positive  aspects.
2,6 I agree with some of my distinguished colleagues  who have criticized the relations existing between the  Member States and the Secretariat, A change must  be made not 80 much because it is right and reason-  able to do so but because there is no other way in  which we can carry out our tasks with the efficiency  and diligence that wiii ensure success. These  relations cannot be expressed in general terms  without risk of errors and injustices of omission or  commission, But they are not satisfactory and must  be made so, More frequent ard regular meetings  and contacts are essential. Our’ isolation, in which  we are scarcely ever consulted and, if so, only for  short intervals, must ceasé, These defects should  not in my opinion be harped upon with rancour, but  judged objectively, in clearly defined and concrete  terms, 30 that we may bé delivered from the exag-  gerations and those irritating forms of Injustice  known as vagueness and’ géneralizations.
2.7 I may be allowed to refer very briefly to somé-  thing my Government considers as one of the greatest  evils of our age, namely, the acéldental or system-  atic attacks on freedom of information. Paragraph
2 (a) of Article 1 cf the Organization's Constitution  says: " The Organization will collaborate in the  work of advancing the mutual knowledge and   XVII  understanding of peoplez,through all means of ‘mass  communication and to that end recommend such  international agreements as may be necessary to  promote the free flow of ideas by word and image."
2.8 What a lot could any normal adult say about  those few words! And how much of what he said  would be devoted to complaints about the abuses of  liberty, the falsification of its nature, the total dis-  tortion of the concept of information s9 as to com-  pletely eliminate, in collecting and disseminating it,  whatever does not fit in with certain aspects of the  truth which, on more or less superficial examination,  are shown to be obvious lies and fallaclys, But they  are used to keep alive and feed the ignorance and  simplicity of peoples who are told in freedom's name  that they will be saved and transported to a Promised  Land eventually covering the whole earth and in the  future extending to other worlds united by a single  universal doctrine.
2.9 Contemporary man, as never before in history,  needs information which is full, objective, free of  propaganda, free of anything that may affect its  essence. In certain countries such as my own he  receives such information. But in others, informa-  tion is restricted in many ways. The people do not  know the truth but are given a daily dose of falsified  and incomplete facts, When this form of the truth  appears in the State newspapers, while all other  versions are suppressed, freedom of expression has  given place to slogans,
2.10 We must, with all the means at our disposal,  fight for freedom of information, without which all  the other freedoms are compromised. A completely  and honestly informed man will be a positive element  in the building of peace, which cannot but be  endangered by the constant infiltration of propaganda  poison. _
2.11 In the two years that havé passed since the last  session of the Conference, the Government of  Colombia has pursued its efforts to free the country  from the fetters of ignorance and to fill the gaps that  have been noted and which still exist in ite educational  system. In this task it has had the co-operation of  Unesco, which it appreciates and acknowledges and  would like to see extended in several spheres it  considers necessary, At the moment, it is particu-  larly interested to convert the Industrial University  of Santander into a genuine technical college which  will provide the country with new experts in various  fields of production. At the same time we should  ‘like the arid lands programume to be extended to  Latin America, so that our Guajira peninsula might  be fully rehabilitated. Other projects we consider  important will be submitted for examination at an  appropriate time. We believe that they-will be given  due attention, in the same way that we give our  attention to all projects for the extension of education,  the advancement of science and the development of  culture all over the world,
2,12 Mr. President and fellow delegates, in con-  clusion I should like, on behalf of the Republic of  Colombia which I have the honour to represent, to  extend a cordial welcome to the new Member States  of the Organization. We view them, not as competi-  tors, but as collaborators faced with conditions  similar to our own, 150 years ago, we too were  emerging from a situation resembling that on which
276  PLENARY MEETINGS  they have now finally turned their backs.’ We experi-  enced similar sufferings and in 150 years we have  been taught lessons which it may be of interest to  them to know and study so that they may avoid making  the same mistakes that we did. They arc entering a  world which welcomes them with all the wonders of  science and technology - an advantage we were not  vouchsafed,
2.13 Apart from these advantages, they will also  be faced with certain dangers, more particularly in  the new guises assumed by colonfalism with a view  to imposing its domination in the false names of  freedom, Fortunately, nations have an instinct which  usually leads them to choose the road most favourable  to their historic destiny. We hope that this will be  the case with the new Member States of Unesco, which  have not thrown off one yoke, only to submit to  another, but will devote themselves to the long ard  arduous task of endowing freedom with that soclal  consclence of which that inspired ‘atellect, Shri  Radhakrishnan, spoke from this very platform, a  conscience without which the concept of freedom  would be no more than an empty phrase.
2.14 Mr. President, fellow delegates, Colombia ts  a country still scarcely developed in many respects  and which knows and admits its defects, that makes  a good beginning for remedying them. It is a country  deeply devoted to culture and realizes that culture  cannot grow, develop and bear fruit unless it is based  on certain permanent velues, though they too are  permanently endangered values, such as freedom.  To defend them so that they may be consolidated as  defences of peace Colombia is devoting its most  determined efforts and it will continue to do so until  Unegco, on a day which cannot be far off, becomes  in the reality what we are hoping and working for  today amidst the confusions and uncertainties of an  age in which mankind, as never before, needs  guidance and light. This Organization is a beacon  and we must see that its light does not flicker and  fail but grows in power, to lead new and larger areas  out of the dark realm of ignorance and fanaticiem  from whose fatal and monstrous union are born all  the evils from which we have suffered and which alas,  still hang like heavy clouds on our horizon.
3. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon Dr. Oscar Robles Toledano, Head of  the delegation of the Dominican Republic.
4.1 Mr. ROBLES TOLEDANO (Dominican Republic)  (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, the delegation  of the Doininican Republic has come to this eleventh  session of the General Conference of Unesco in a  mood of quiet optimism, determined to contribute  actively, to the full extent of its powers, towards  making the high ideals of this Organization a reality.  Throughout {ts fruitful existence, Unesco has shown  that in the sea of conflicts which threaten the ship-  wreck of mankind it is posaible to find quiet waters  favourable to peace and concord, There is no such  thing as absolute error, as one of our sharpest  intellects once put it succinctly when he sald: "Nulla  falsa doctrina est, quae non aliqua vera intermisceat" .
4,2 This international organization, which already  deserves well of mankind, is carrying out the noble   XVTI  PLENARY MEETINGS  and beneficent task of separating, with painstaking  care, the gold from the quartz, It is a sieve that  separates the impurities so es to leave only the  golden wheat, the promise of bread and the augury  of life. I do not say that it is perfect. I do not  claim that its fruits are always ripe and in season;  no human work is flswless. The soaring wing  carries dust from the earth in its plumage.  Prometheus knew what suffering it cost to grant the  gift of fire to man, It may however be sald that in  the contemporary world, in which culture, civiliza-  tion, progress and the near and more distant future  are basically dominated by the conception of man qua  man, Unesco has resolutely pursued its task of add-  ing to man's stature, of bringing his dreams to life,  of turning design into truth.
4.3 What I am going to say supports, reinforces  and confirms the draft convention intended to launch  a campaign against one of the most uncivilized and  unscrupulous forms of hatred of one!s neighbour,  one of the most odious methods of debasing human  dignity: discrimination in education. For the  Dominican delegation, Mr. President, this agree-  ment is the most precious, most constructive and  most practical item on the agenda, the heart and scul  of this meeting. It answers a clamorous appeal from  the collective conscience. To educate is to enrich  from within, to achieve our being and bring it to full  maturity. To lock school doors against us because  wo may be white men or negroes, because we may  be dolichocephalic or brachicephalic, because we  believe in a particular religion or support a partl-  cular political theory, because we may have been  born in a stable like the Man of Bethlehem, is a  major crime which robs us of life because it stifles  us and destroys the intellectual activity which is the  root and shining characteristic of man. Thercfore,  our first feeling after careful study of the courageous  draft convention establishing the procedure to be  followed in the campaign against discrimination in  education is one of lively satisfaction and expectancy.  Each of its very carefully considered slauses breathes  a comforting air of understanding brotherhood. Although  it may not be perfect, the high mindedness by which  it is inspired encourages our brightest hopes.
4.4 Behind the cold official language in which it is  couched we feel a warm humanity that invites us to  face the future with quiet confidence. Its short but  weighty text combines wise thinking with sound  practical sense and with a breadth and depth of  knowledge that is born of painful and living experience.  The afflictions and misfortunes which have befallen  human kind through disastrous errors concerning the  nature, condition and dignity of man - and herein lies  the root of the matter - have rilled more than half the  pages in man's history with blood and tears,
4.5 Gobineau would have thrown down his pen, had  he seen in his dreams, in some horrible nightmare,  the Dantesque and terrifying picture painted with a  realistic brush, steeped in blood and reeking of gas,  by Anne Frank; Darwin would have been horrified by  the sad distortion of his doctrine of natural selection,  exalting the sirong and humbling the weak, into a  social system; the daring men who started the French  Revolution would have hastened to gather up some of  their seed they strewed if they had suspected the  tragic blossoms it would germinate; Hobbes' .
277  " Leviathan", a ponderous Anglo-Saxon echo of  Macchiavelli's agile Latin wit, would have gone  unwritten if its author had foreseen thai his work waa  to serve as a textbook and a shield to cloak the  insatiable appetite for personal or collective power  which shames the sons of Adam.
4.6 Happily, human beings, helped in the use of  their intelligence by a providence from on high that  is all the more effective when silent and secret, are  not easily disheartened. Pessimism is not a natural  human attribute; it may be an incident in the  adventure of living, but it is not an enduring condition.  The generations which come and go, shed their  disillusions and seek new paths in their ceaseless  quest for a better existence. The whole of history 18  nothing more than the moving ¢pifome of their  endeavours, This spirit of inquiry is what lends  colour to life; Inquiring, not sceptical; restless, not  despairing; on the contrary, it is a stiraulus to confi-  dent work, to the determined search for conquest and  achievement in a world where there ig always much  for everyone to do because the goal towards which we  are advancing day by day is as essential as it is  sublime. The genius of integration, enemy of the  dark forces of dispersion and destruction, neither  languishes nor despairs.
4,7 Convincing proof of man's unwavering struggle  to find himself - lost in the chaos of confusion - is  given us, backed by plentiful evidence, in the many  vicissitudes through which Article 26 of the Universal  Declaration of Human Rights has passed. More than  ten years have elapsed since, with the unanimous  consent ard enthusiastic applause of every nation,  every individual was offered the right, without let or  hindrance, to obtain the inestimable advantages of  education and culture. The sovereign greatness of  this document, concise but positive and packed with  meaning like a sketch drawn by a master hand, had  immediate effect so far as some of its provisions  were concerned, that for example, relating to free  and compulsory primary education for all. It should  be emphasized, as an encouragement to us, that the  birth of this fine infant required one and a half  centuries of laborious gestation. A century before  this courageous declaration, be it remembered, half  mankind could neither read nor write.
4.8 However, many of its other provisions are still  in suspense, as though they were afraid of themselves,  intimidated by the obstinate hostility and the conflict  waged against them by vested interests, ingrained  prejudice, hostile doctrine and degrading and inhuman  social and economic conditions, The seed was planted,  but because the soil had not been properly dug nor  suitably prepared, the undertaking seemed doomed  from the start. Four obstacles, seemingly insur-  mountable, prevented this democratic {deal from  being fully achieved. What kind of education should  be provided? Who should decide on educational  standards, the parents or the State? Whatever the  choice, there will always be a strong suspicion in  the mind of the other due to an inevitable clash of  contradictory principles.
4.9 Are fathers, whose children, in time, in space  and for all eternity, are the projection and reflection  of themselves, to be deprived of the right granted by  natural law to every craftsman to mould, polish and  refine his own work?   XVII PLENARY
4.10 Is higher education, like a mountain peak, to  be restricted to a few privileged minds, who will  then radiate their light over the semi-educated  masses? Will the minorities which mature among  other majority cultures lose the right to cultivate  their own genius which flowers in their language,  customs and the delights of their colourful folklore?  All thece probleme were treated with great intellect-  ual skill by those who drew up this valuable draft  convention, to whom are now due the enduring thanks  of the human family.
4,11 The draft agreement to be submitted for our  approval is open to amendment. Freedom, for  example, it will be said, 14 not something static;  not something lofty and beautiful, yet motionless,  like the obelisk which graces the Place de la  Concorde, holding the attention of passers-by and  arousing their admiration by its graceful Egyptian  lines. Freedom is action fn motion. The verb "to  progress" is derived from " progradere" which is  the same as to move forward, Progress {s the off-  shoot of free and vigorous action.
4.12 When the men of 1789 wrote in the Convention  that liberty consisted in doing that which did not  injure others, they gave only a minimum definition.  It is not enough not to hurt others; today it is neces-  sary that we go to the farthest limits of generosity  to do something ood for others. Ii is not enough to  safeguard the freedon we have won, it is necessary  to preserve it and so to work that it will be creative  and, at the same time as it improves the individual  beneficlary, stimulate perfection in others and lead  to an organic, fruitful and beneficent cémmunity of  living. Thus it is permissible to speak of the right  to freedom only iI it is accompanied by its comple-  ment, the duty of freedom. There can be no right  without a corresponding obligation, but the hyper-  trophy of righta does not permit us to listen to the  voice which demands of us Juties.
4,13 In the campaign against every kind of discrl  mination in education we must stress the obligation  to conduct a ruthless war against the baseless  motives on which discriminatory prejudices are  founded within the schools themselves. In this con-  nexlon, ray delegation would have Uked to eliminate  from the dojument the term "race", in order not  to give acknowledgement and recognition to a lie and  a scientific falsehood in a universal declaration.  The very word "race" 1v so charged with emotional  dynamite that we ought to form a kind of conspiracy  of silence, so that the disappearance of the word  might lead to a realization of the falseness of the  thing itself. No one nowadays cen present à certifi-  cate of blood purity and claim that someone else has  been created differently from himself. I realize  that, in the interests of realism and of rocted con-  ventions, the agreement cannot go further than it has  done. Alter all, a product which in too perfect  invites the disappointment that awnits an infant  prodigy.
4,14 Social and historical complexes are exceed-  ingly difficult to eradicate. We have only to rem-  ember that as recently as the middle of last century  a man of the intellectual calibre of Hippolyte Taine,  though born in France, which is essentially universal-  irt, refused to accept human equality, denying that  " Greeks, Barbarians, Indians, Renaissance man and  MEETINGS  .  Eighteenth century man came out of the same mould".  But despite these difficulties, we may be certain that,  once the evil is attacked at the roots with courage and  deterrnination, as Unesco is doing, the salutary  effects will soon be felt,
4.15 Without being accused of Chauvinism, I think I  my take my own country as an example. Santo  Domingo was the Latin American country in which  the racial problem in every field and in all its  aspects first arose. The Indian was considered by  Ginés de Sepfilveda, an eminent intellectual of the  time, to be the twin brother of the ape. He denied  him any innate intellectual ability.
4,16 Spanish goodwill rescued human dignity from  this baneful arena of controversy through education,  by learning the wise laws of the Indians so thoroughly  that forty years after colonization the Indians were  making their contribution to the universities, the  churches, in politics, shedding the light of their  talents upon every sphere of knowledge and art.
4,17 Today we can claim that we have no racial .  problem and that we anticipated Unesco by thirty  years, for all the items in the Corventlon I am dis-  cussing have béen enshrined in the Dominican  Constitution for that length of time, In the short  period from 1952 to 1959 we redeemed from the  darkness of ignorance 439, 000 illiterate adults. Our  university is attended by 4,000 students from every  social class, of every colour, who are their own  masters, profess the religion dictated by their  conscience and consulting only their individual  talents, choose the path of knowledge to which their  intellectual vocation inclines them.
4,18 Those who have seen this happy outcome  develop before thelr eyes, the fruit of unremitting  effort, have no right to doubt that Unesco will  succeed brilliantly in its noble and universal task.  There will, of course, be those who will turn a deaf  ear to the just voice of consclence.
4.19 Even if a convention may not be concluded in  full, {ts psychological and moral effect must be’  borne in mind. It will continue to stend like a clear  and unsullied mirror in which we shall see reflected  the sordid and ugly side, the shameless, insane and  sinful aspect of mankind, Let us, in the meantime,  under the approving regard of heaven, discharge our  human, our little less than divine mission.
4.20 The welcome presence at this eleventh session  of the new nations from the African continent fills us  with new hope, This stream of fresh rejuvenated  blood will course through the arteries of a world  feeling old, made sceptical by repeated errors, sick  with pessimism after so much suffering, so many  setbacks and failures, pregnant with omens as though  the prophetic voice of Cassandra echoed unceasingly  in its cars.
4.21 The delegation of the Dominican Republic has  pleasure in welcoming the nationo of Africa and in  offering them the hand of heartfelt friendship.
5, The PRESIDENT:
1 call upon the Hon. Mr. Chaudhari, Minister of  Education and Head of the delegation of Nepal.
6.1 Mr. CHAUDHARI (I{epal):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, the Nepalese  delegation is delighted to be present at this session   PLENARY  of the General Conference of Unesco and to pay  tribute to Unesco's efforts in contributing to peace  and security in the world through the promotion of  education, science and culture. The Government 1  represent is happy to have this opportunity of sending  its message of goodwill to this session of the  Conference, ;
6.2 1 take it my duty to request you to bear in mind  that the Nepalese people, although suffering them-  selves from the many ills and evils of a backward  socio-economic system, are keenly interested In  anything that concerns the welfare of mankind. They  are ever eager to serve humanity as best they can.  It is this eagerness for service that has prompted  them to join as early as possible such international  organizations as have proclaimed themselves dedi-  cated to the service of mankind, for example, the  United Nationa, Unesco, FAO, WHO and others.  We cherish high hopes in these international  organizations, .
6.3 Our relationship with Unesco dates back to 1949  when Nepal was represented by an observer at the  fourth session of the General Conference held in  Paris, and we became a fully fledged member of  Unesco in 1953. Although we took the membership  of this august body seriously, we admit that our  participation in Unesco's activities to date has been  very limited. We were unable to attend many of the  conferences, seminars and symposiums organized  by Unesco and were unable to implement in our  country meny of the recommendations and conventions  proposed by Unesco, Our deepest regret, however,  has been our inability to participate in Unesco's  Major Project on Mutual Appreciation of Eastern  and Western Cultural Values, precisely because we  could have been very active in this project which  holds so much interest for us, But I beg you to bear  in mind that this inability was certainly not the result  of any apathy on our part towards Unesco and its  activities, but of unstable conditions in our country.
1 hesitate to take much of your precious time for  detailed explanations here. I simply want you to  know that such unsettled and disturbed conditions  did continue for a long time and they stood as an  obstacle to our active co-operation with Unesco.  Only recently have we succeeded in achieving the  long desired state of stability. Since then the signs  of progress have begun to appear and the future now  seems secure,
6.4 I would like to call your attention now to  certain important development programmes which  we are planning to put into execution immediately in  our country. I mention them here because these  programmes point to an ever closer relationship  with Unesco in the near future. 1 shall try to be as  brief as possible. First of all, I would like to  mention our plan for the reorganization of primary  schools, His Majesty's Government of Nepal has  declared that primary education shall be compulsory  and free as soon as this ia feasible, and {t is the  duty of my Ministry to strive to achieve this goal.  We realize that the costs entailed by the provision of  education for our entire population with its very high  birth rate can be enormous and may, indeed, be a  burden which cannot easily be borne by an under-  developed economy like ours. Yet the urgency is  such that we can no longer deny this necessity of  MEETINGS
279  XVI  imparting basic minimum education to every son and  daughter of the land. Universal education simply  cannot wait longer.
6.5 The implementation of the proposed Major  Project on Universal Compulsory and Free Primary  Education in Asia would naturally promote better  relations between Nepal and Unesco. We are fully  determined to take part in this project if it is  launched. We attach very great importance fs (ne
20-year working plan drawn up at the Karachi confer-  ence by the Asian Member States and hope that  sufficient assistance will be forthcoming from more  favourably placed countries and the international  organizations to help us in this endeavour. As the  majority of the Nepalese pupils have to be satisfied  with primary schooling only, owing to the poverty of  their parents, we have had to make this phase of  schooling as comprehensive and effective as possible.  We have therefore drafted, with the assistance of  educational experts, a new primary curriculum which  is scientifically and psychologically sound and steps  have already been taken for the expansion of primary  and secondary schools. A well-equipped and well-  staffed bureau of publications has been established to  print and publish textbooks based on the new curri-  culum. A few post-graduate teachers have been sent  abroad for training in the writing of primary textbooks  and upon their return the publications programme is  expected to be speeded up. At the same time special  importance has been given to a teacher-training pro-  gramme for primary and secondary schools,
6.6 Secondly, we are planning to convert the present  secondary schools, which to a large extent place  emphasis upon the humanities and purely literary  subjects, inté multi-purpose secondary schools with  equal emphasis upon the study of the arts and sciences  and on vocational training, The new scheme of  secondary education is intended to serve our triple  purpose cf providing appropriate education for the  boys and girls who will become the political and  civic leaders of Nepal for the coming generations;  appropriate teaching for the much larger group of  boys and girls who will become highly skilled leaders  in the professional and economic phases of our  national development; and vocational training in the  skills essential to a Twentieth century economy, that  is, the production of competent secretaries, clerks,  mechanics and metal workers, building trade  workers, textile processors, and other craftemen  and skilled labeurers. The plans to establish  several vocational and technical schools are well  advanced, The new curriculum is now awaiting  application and the conversion plan has already been  drawn up. As regards the development of higher  education, we are planning to establish additional  science colleges in different parts of the country.  Most important of all, we have already set up a  central research institute with adequate provision  for research in the {ields of mining, geology,  mineralogy, etc, A university, named after the late  King Tribhuban, has alse been established to super-  vise and promote the development of higher education.
6.7 In the field of culture, I might mention the  establishment of the National Library and the plans  for the establishment of a National Archives and an  archaeological centre. I shall not discuss these  plans in detail here since 1 presume that the majority   XVI PLENARY MEETINGS  of the distinguished delegates present may already be  aware of their importance, in view of their knowledge  of our culture and history, When the plans to which  I have referred are carried into effect, I am sure  that the scholars of the world interested in the East  will wish to make a deeper study of Nepal. In view  of the short time at my disposal I shall say no more  here, but would beg the patience of my distinguished  fellow delegates to await the publication of these  plans in due course for study.
6.8 All these plans for the development of education,  science and culture in our country happily point to  the future when closer collaboration with Unesco will  be both necessary and desirable, Indeed, we in Nepal  hope for the highest outcome as a result of increa-  sing participation in all the international organiza-  tions, and especially in Unesco which we regard ag  one of the noblest of these organizations both in its  ideals and in its practice.
6.9 I would like to say a few words about the  Director-General's report and the Proposed Pro-  gramme and Budget for 1961-1962 which is the topic  under review and to congratulate the Directoi-  General for the excellent programme he has put  forward. The programme and budget for the years
1961-1962 is well prepared and shows, in our opinion,  progressive imprc «ents over former budgets. In  this age of science -‘ à technology, no country how-  ever underdeveloped, can fail to be affected by the  rapidity of change. We are pleased to note, in this  connexion, that under Unesco's programme in the  natural sciences the United Nations Special Fund is  available for the development of technical education  at a higher level, as a complement to development  in this field at the lower level under the Expanded  Programme of Technical Assistance. We also look  forward to a time in the near future when this Orga-  nization will have abundant resources at its disposal  to serve better the cause of education, science and  culture, especially in the underdeveloped countries  of the world.  - 6.10 I am very pleased to express my happiness at  the increase of the Unesco family with the admission  of the many new African members and, on behalf of  the delegation of Nepal, to extend to them our most  cordial welcome, At the same time, of course, we  should not forget that Unesco's family should be a  world family and we shall therefore be happy when  the countries of the world which still remain outside  are members of this family.
6.11 It is high time for the intellectuals of the world  to realize the importance of education, science and  culture as a means for the attainment of lasting peace  and prosperity. The present generation in very much  concerned with the future of mankind and Unesco has  a great task before it. Let us all pledge to give this  Organization our sincere and aclive co-operation so  that it may fulfil the noble ideals it has stood for.
6.12 And now, Mr. President, I would also like to  express our gratitude to the French people and  authorities for the warm hospitality they have shown  us. This is not our first experience of French hos-  pitality and we would not wish to mies this opportunity  of expressing our very deep appreciation.
7. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon H.E. Mr. Romero, Secretary of
280  Education and Head of the delegation of the  Philippines.
8.1 Mr. ROMERO (Philippines):  Mr. President, distinguished delegates, ladies  and gentlemen, I am grateful for this opportunity of  addressing the eleventh session of the General Con-  ference of Unesco, May I first of all express the  profound sympathy of the Government and people of  the Philippines in the loss of our distinguighed  colleagues, Dr, Pedro de Alba, member of the.  Executive Board of Unesco, and Mr. Gaston Berger,  Chairman of the French National Commission for  Unesco. Secondly, I wish to associate my delegation  with the warm welcome given by our fellow delega-  tions to the new members of Unesco, the Member  States and the non-governmental organizations  interested in education, science and culture.
8.2 On this occasion, I wish to convey the deep  gratitude of my Government for the attention and  interest Unesco has shown in meeting the needs of .  the people of the Philippines, particularly as follows:
(1) Development of the Unesco National Commis-  sion of the Philippines;
(2) Assistance - technical, financial and in the  form of equipment - under the normal programme,  the Participation programme, and the Technical  Assistance programme; and
(3) Visits of the members of the Secretariat to the  Philippines for purposes of consultation.
8.3 During 1958-1959, the Philippines pursued with  the same vigour the policy it has followed since it  became a member of Unesco ind has continued to  ensure the satisfactory implementation of the pro-  gramme of the Organization. Not only were the main  lines of collaboration between the Phillppine Govern-  ment and Unesco followed as in the past, but co-  operation between the National Commission and the  various local bodies engaged in education, science  and culture has been increased. Further efforts  were exerted to arouse greater interest in Unesco  through wider dissemination of information concerning  its aims and activities, Despite limited renources,  progress was achieved in the programme as a whole,  and activities were undertaken in the major fields of  Unesco's work reflecting practically every aspect of  the life of the people of the Philippines.
8.4 Among the most outstanding events and activities  during the period under review the following deserve  to be mentioned:
(1) The Second Biennial Conference of the Com-  mission, followed by the Regional Conference of the  National Commissions for Unesco in Asia, at Manila,  early this year;
(2) Completion and publication of the results of  the study of the social impact of small-scale  industries in the Philippines;
(3) Establishment of the Asian Youth Institute In  the Philippines, with valuable assistance from  Unesco:
(4) Exhibition of Unesco's travelling science  exhibit, " Energy and its Transformation";
(5) Preparation of the ground for the Unesco-Pax  Romana Meeting of Experts on the Present Impact of  the Great Religions of the World;
(6) Participation in the Karachi Meeting on  compulsory education; :   PLENARY
(7) Holding of a national symposium on the subject  "Rizal as an internationalist" ;
(8) Preparation of the ground for ths Unesco-  assisted national symposium on Filipino culture;
(9) Sponsoring of the exhibition of drawings and  paintings of celebrated artists, native and foreign;
(10) Reproduction for dissemination of a series  of paintings by some of the foremost Filipino artists;
(11) Holding of national seminars, symposia,  workshops, and other kinds of meetings - for .  example, the conference of the Asian Federation of  Women's Clubs; the First Asian Seminar on Mental  Health and Family Life; the national seminar on  science teaching, secondary level; and the ongoing  seminars on the promotion of human rights and  fundamental freedoms;
(12) The translation and publication of various  Unesco publications;
(13) The preparation of a manuscript on Filipino life;
(14) The establishment of a science documentation  centre with Unesco's assistance; and
(15) Wise use of the fellowships and travel grants  given by Unesco. ,
8.5 My Government ts happy to take note of the  Proposed Programme and Budget for 1961-1962,  and is pleased to associate itself with the other  Member States who have expressed satisfaction, on  the whole, with the planning and implementation of  the programmes of Unesco, past, present, and  future. The exceediigly valuable and enlightening  documents prepared by the Director-General and his  staff deserve our sincerest congratulations. We  likewise note with great interest the establishment  of priorities and the observance of the basic prin-  ciples of programming and administration - evalu-  ation, balance, continuity and regionalization.
8.6 At this point may I simply mention some of the  aspects of the proposed programme which the  Philippine delegation views with particular interest.  They are the following:  * (1) The increased attention to education, especi-  ally the extension and improvement of education,  including teacher training and facilities, for Asia  and for Tropical Africa;
(2) The special and laudable project on oceano-  graphy and the promotion of scientific research on  arid lands which are calculated to improve the  standard of living of the people;
(3) The continuing interest in the development of  cultural relations between countries, in particular,  the action programrne under the East-West Major  Project;
(4) The promotion of research and the develop-  ment of research techniques in thé social sciences  for greater social sensitivity and usefulnsss;
(5) The attempt to further vitalize the programme  in mass communication so that it might be better  suited to the creation of a more favourable climato  for support of Unesco's objectives;
(6) The increased efforts of Unesco to establish  better and closer liaison between the Organization  and Member States on the one hand, and between  Member States, on the other;
(7) The importance being given to the needs and  interesta of Member States, including the varlous  non-governmental organizations having consultative  status with Unesco;
(8) Propei attention to the education of out-of-  school youth and adults, including the handicapped  and the delinquent groups;
(9) The efforts to tap other sources of funds to  implement the gl gantic programme of Unesco and to  cope adequately with the new demands addressed to  it; and -
(10) The spcelal efforts being exerted to assist  the developing and new Member States in their edu-  cational, scientific and cultural programmes.
8.7 Ata time when, unfortunately, political  tensions between leading States show little signs of  abatement and when, indeed, the fate of our parent  organization, the United Nations itself, would seem  at times to hang precariously in the balance, it is  comforting and reassuring to find in this Organization  men of all races and creeds working shoulder to  shoulder to improve educational and social conditions  everywhere and to bring about peace and understanding  among nations.
8.8 This Conference has got off to a good start by  avoiding the consideration of mattera that tend to  divide rather than to unite us. We fervently hope and  devoutly pray that statesmen the world over will  translate into reality the pathetic longing of people  everywhere for a lasting peace, so that they may  devote their undivided enérgles to the amelloration of  their lot and the improvement of standards of living.  Let us go forward in this Organization in the direction  of creating a climate that will bring about this lasting  peace, fostering the spirit of mutual helpfulness and  the realization that we form a part of an integral  whole, that of humanity liself, und must bear each  other's burdens, This alone can bring about the  peace and concord that hive been dreamed of since  the world began, but which have so far eluded its  leaders. i
8.9 The phenymenal progress made by science  during the last few decades in man's conquest of the  forces of naturg has not been accompanied by the  same progress in the conquest of the evil fornes in  the hearts and rninds of nen. We have explored the  mysteries of the smallest things; we have aplit the  atom and unleashed forces that may make the world  something of a paradise or may destroy it, depending  on whether thess forces are to be devoted to peaceful  or to warlike purposes, We have also explored and  even measured the universe, but science can do little  to tame the evil forces in the human mind and the  human heart. It is in an organization ike Unesco  that lie humanity's hopes for the taming of those  forces.
8,10 It is a happy avgury that this Conference is  showing such preoccupation with the {ate of the under-  developed, and especially the newly liberated  countries, A griat statesman has said that no  country can long repiain half slave and half free.  That dictum holds equally true for the world, It  cannot remain half {ree and half slave ~ slave to  ignorance, disease and poverty, Dirzetly or  indirectly, this inéfdious form of slavery of the other  half will drag into misery and disorder the half that  considers itself i'ree,
8,11 As one of the newly inde penden countries  after the last world war, ray country [eels it is in a  position to understand and to rympatize with the  problems of these sister Staten, Wu hava experienced   XVII  the joys as well‘as the birth pains of freedom, and  we are expériençing the growing paino of independ-  ence. Thus, for instance, when the distinguished  leader of ons of the African States mentioned the  problem of the tendency of the educational system to  produce people who wanted only white-collar jobs,  the complaint had a familiar ring to us Filipinos.  And when the distinguished spokesman of Tanganyika  bewailed the lack of teachers in his country, I was  reminded of the time when over fifty years ago, asa  mere child of fen and only in the fifth grade, I was  recruited as a public school teacher for our newly  established public school system. Now fifty years  later, we have 126,000 teachers in the public schools  alone - all university or normal college graduates  giving instruction to five million pupils,
8.12 We now devote thirty per cént of our national  budget to educational purposes which, I think, is  one of the highest percentages devoted for this  purpose among Member States. But we are still  campaigning to put through Congress an additional  special tax for thé schools, in spite of the fact that  next year will be an election year and additional tax-  ation is not à popular issue during elections. 1 hope  that we shall be able to exchange experiences with  our friends in Tanganyika and, perhaps, make a  modest contribution to the solution of their problem  of lack of teachers, Incidentally, during the last  few years, we have launched what we have called  " Operation Brotherhood" in our country under which  we have sent a contingent of trained doctors and  nurses to our sister nations, Laos and South Viet-Nam.
8.13 It may come as a surprise to many people  that we have between two and three thousand physicians  working in the hospitals in the United States and an  equal number of trained nurses - the largest foreign  contingent of doctors and nurses in that country.  While our physicians and nurses are helping in  hospital work in the United States they are also  learning the latest techniques in hospital practice,  and the impact of this experience has also shown us  some important flaws fn cur medical training which  we are hastening to correct. Reclprocally, we have  received valuable aid in our educational work from a  number of Member States - the United States, the  United Kingdom, Australla, New Zealarid and Spain.
8,14 In the field of cultural exchangé, last year,  we sent a troupe of Filipino dancers and musiclans  called the " Bayanihan" or "Togetherness" to Europe  and the United Statés. The enthusiustic reception  they received everywhere, and 2186 in this beautiful  city of Paris, has encouraged us to repeat the enter-  prise next year, when it is hoped that they will visit  Latin America, Africa and Australia.
8.15 It in in this spirit of mutual co- operation end  helpfulness, of sympathy and understanding, that  those gathered together in this Conference may  eventually bring about that dream of lasting pence  and of the brotherhood of man under the fathorhood  of God. '
8,16 I feel my remärks would be incomplel; jte  after giving testimony to our solidarity with the Afro-  Aslan nations by virtue of the imperatives of geo-  graphy, race and history, and also of our solidarity  with the English-speaking community, whose language  we have adopted and from whose culture we have  liberally borrowed, ! did not say a few words of
282  PLENARY MEETINGS  greeting to the Spanish- speaking community of some
23 nations here represented, to whom we are also  attached by close cultural ties and historical associ-  ations and by the language that we speak in common,
8.17 (Translation from the Spanish):  I cannot end this short speech without taking the  opportunity of reaffirming our solidarity with the  community of Spanish-speaking peoples, The fact  that I have addressed this assembly in English in no  way implies that we have lost Interest in or enthusi-  asm for the Spanish language and culture which unites  us with the countries of Latin America and with Spain,
8.18 Although geographically we are meeting some-  what far from our countries and although the fluctua-  tions of world politicis have in a way separated us  from you, these cultural bonds have not weakened but,  on the contrary, are becoming increasingly closer,  In recent years legislation has been passed in my  couniry making the teaching of Spanish in schools  compulsory and a draft resolution is now being sub-  mitted to this Conference for the establishment of a  Centre of Hispanic Culture in the Philippines, which  I hope will receive your valued support.
8.19 I should like to repeat once again that neither  the great oceans separating us nor the imperatives
0: world politics can weaken the cultural links uniting us.
9. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon H.E. Mr. Stefan Wierblowski,  President of the Polish National Commission,  member of the Executive Board and Head of the  delegation of Poland.
10.1 Mr. WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) {Translation  from the French):  Mr. President; ladies and gentlemen, it is the  custom of our Organization - and an excellent one -  for the General Conference to make an assessment of  the general situation in which we have to decide on  our activities for the next two years. In this way,  evary delegation can give its views on Unesco's  immediate tasks und objectives. ‘While the essential  objectives and tacks are defined in the Constitution  of Unesco, their implementation, the proportion to  be allotted to the various activities in the programme,  the way in which these tasks are tackled, obviously  depend on the general situation and the positive needs  of the moment.
10.2 The special feature of Unesco activity, what  makes it different from the other international organl-  zations, is primarily the fact that we are concerned  with the minds of men, with thé development of their  attitudes and actions, go that they shall conform to  the spirit of international understanding, of reinfor-  cing everything that promotes aclence, culture and  art throughout the world and also that they shall  oppose everything which endangers these cultural  assets. In hie report, the Director-General has  described what has been done for this purpose in the  past, ‘What course, then, should our activities take  now and in the future? How should we elaborate,  interpret and then put into practice the programme  and budget we are about to adopt?
10,3 The vital problem facing all mankind, the  problem governing all our acts, is that of peace. The  threat of total destruction that would follow a nuclear  war is now go obvious as to pass unmentioned. It is   PLENARY  however so terrible and, alas, so real 2 threat that  it demands redoubled vigilance. More particularly,  it demands the vigilance of those who, 0.1 behalf of  their countries, are active in the spread of education,  science and culture at the International level, For it  is a mortal threat to the values we have been officially  appointed to safeguard,
10,4 Logic dictates the only radical solution that  can free us of this constant anxlety; it is complete  and general disarmament. If various solutions are  possible for some other problems, this problem has  only one; of that there can be no doubt,
10.5 To desire general disarmament is to desire  to arrive at the true meaning of coexistence,  Coexistence does not merely mean the existence side  by side of States with different economic and political  systems. This in an unquestionable fact of our time.  But what 1s important is that their coexistence shall  be psaceful,i,e. that they give up the use of armed  force as an argument in the inevitable differences  and contradictions arising between them, Ît is  essential that thelr opposition and disagreement  remain at the ideological level, that the arguments  used be restricted to ideological arguments and that  the use of physical force and military violence be  resolutely renounced, If this solution - the only  realistic solution of the objective situation in which  we are placed - is valuable for everyone, how much  more valuable it is for men of science and culture,  for those who aré honoured with the task of defending  mankind's most precious cultural values.
10.6 It is sometimes argued that this is a matter  for politicians, that the task falls within the terms  of reference of other organizations, more particu-  larly the United Nations, and that ft is no concern of  Unesco, Yes and no, While it is obviously not our  Organization's duty to decide on war or psace, on  disarmament, it is its duty, on the other hand, to  act on the minds of men 80 as to make them more  aware of the need to concentrate their efforts for  peace and general disarmament, Naturally there are  different opinions even among us here. We represent  different fovernmients, different systems and conse-  quently different political ideas.
10.7 But no one can object if our Organization  comes oùt fully in favour of peace and if, to the full  extent of its means, it promotes the desire for peace  in the minds of men. We therefore consider it  regrettable that the General Conference has decided  against discussing the implications of the problem of  disarmament on the activities of Unesco.
10.8 What in the minds and hearts of men is opposed  to the idea of disarmament? Inter alla, there are  certain positive, deliberate and controlled, or  merely tven tolerated, acts which serve the idea of  revenge and militarism wherever, on the contrary,  efforts are needed to eliminate from the minds of  men these tendencies towards militarism, revenge  and their éonsequences.
10,9 ‘We Poles are particularly sensitive to anything  thet testifies to the revival of militarist and revenge-  ful trends in the Federal Republic of Germany. We  find daily evidence of this in the statements made by  the leaders of that country, by the members of its  goverrment, by its politicians, In its press and  periodicals, and even in school textbooks. “Against  our will, history has made us apecialists in German
283  MEETINGS XVII  nationalism and militarism and therefore our voice,  which has recently been raised very often on this  subject, merits special attention, The danger we  are referring to is not directed against us only. It  threatens us all, it threatens the, principles on which  human relationships should be based, the principles  which are the very foundation of our Organization  and, finally, it threatens the German people them-  selves and everything that is truly great about them,  If it 1a our Organization's duty to declare war on war  in the minds of men, it cannot overlook facts which  prove that there are men who, cu ground where the  traces of militarism and the spirit of revenge have  not yet been rooted out, are ready to sow new seeds  of war propaganda - such as arguments for the so-  called " peaceful" revision of the Western frontiers  of my country, arguments which assume atomic  weapons for the Bundeswehr,
10.10 Our concern in this regard is shared not only  by the German Democratic Republic, with which we  cntertain friendly relations, but also by a large  number of the citizens of the Federal Republic. We  are therefore convinced that we can establish future  conditions of good neighbourliness and friendship  with the German people as a whole,
10.11 Since I have touched on a problem particularly  near our hearts, I should like to say a few words on  the basic principles of Polish foreign policy. It is  based on the firm will to establish with other countries  relations of co-operation and friendship founded on  respect for each other's sovereignty and equality,  whatever differences there may be in their historical  development, their national traditions, their racial  and religious make-up, their social institutions and,  more particularly, their social, economic and politi-  cal systems.
10.12 How are auch relations to be satablished?  This demands a mutual éffort and negotiations to eli-  minate all the factors of the cold war - in other words,  to put an end to the armaments race, to the "balance  of fear". The armaments race must be replaced by  the race for welfare, by a competition for the creation  of Letter conditions for the development of mankind  and the unceasing development of the individual in  every field - i.e. a situation where the promotion of  science and culture will be a matter of honour for  every country. Our conception iu to replace the  "balance of fear" Ly the harmonious development of  mankind, and this does not exclude but implies  ideological discussion and argument.
10.13 At the fifieenth session of the United Nations  General Assembly, Mr, Gomulka,- on behalf of the  Polish delegation, propoded the freezing of nuclear  weapons, so that they should not he extended to new  States and not lead to "faits accomplis in that sphere,  New launching sites must not by constructed either in  one's own country or in others. Consequently, new  nuclear bases on foreign territory must not be  established.
10,14 As you know, in 1067 the Polish Government  had already proposed the setting up of a nuclear free  zone in Central Europe.: The final version of this  project, known as the 7 Rapacki Plan", took into  account proposals mada by various othe) countries.  Poland continues to support this plan today, in  addition to simila‘ plans for the Balkans and the Far  East which were proposed later. We also support a   xVTI  similar plan for Africa, proposed by the President  of Ghana, Naturally, the objective of these preposals  should not in our opinion replace the plan of complete  and general disarmament. They should, on the  contrary, open the road to that idea, so dear {o all  the peoples of the world, which is to prevent the  architects of the cold war from turning it, whether  consciously or unconsciously, into a hot war,
10.15 We consider that the proposals of the Soviet  delegation at the fifteenth session of the United  Nations General Assembly may make an important  contribution to the future of the wcrld, and we  support them.
10.16 With regard to apheres which are of even  closer interest to Unesco, we were particularly  interested in the proposals submitted to the United  Nations ty President Nkrumah of Ghana for the  setting up of a committee of scientific experts to  study the possibilities of using for peaceful purposes  all sources of energy and technical discoveries  which are now used only for military purposes.  For its part, Poland proposed the establishment,  under United Nations auspices, of a committee of  scientists of various countries for the purposes of  studying the possible consequences of the use of  nuclear weapons on human life and health, on world  economic conditions, on culture and on civilization.
10.17 . ‘We consider that the co-operation and the  discussions to which I have referred may, for  example; take place within all international nrgani-  zations whose structure corresponds to the present  structure of the world. We attach great importance  to the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies,  more particularly Unesco. Poland is therefore trying  to implement, over as wide a field as possible, the  various activities included in the Unesco programme.  It enlists the interest of all Polish circles active in  eduction, science and culture, and a large number of  activities related thereto have been undertaken. 1  shall not go further into this subject, as we shall  have an opportunity of referring to it in other organs  of the Conferénce.
10,18 Mr. President, fellow delegates, we have  been happy to welcome among us the delegations of  the countries which have just won their independence  and thrown off the yoke of colonialism. ‘We shall be  welcoming still more of these in the yer.ra to come.  However, it {s our moral duty not only to welcorae  with joy those who have become free but also to  assist those who are not yet free to bring their hour  : of liberation nearer.
10,18 We also know that the mere fact of independ-  ence does not mean that all the tragic consequences  of colonialism, the true picture of which only appears  on the morrow of independence, have disappeared in  the former colonies. While responsibility for colo-  nialism rests upon certain countries only, responsi-  bility for decolonization, in the widest sense, lies  with all nations of the world - as much with those  which possessed or still possess colonies as with  those which have never had any, At the same time,  this responsibility is incumbent upon the United  Nations and on Unesco within the limits of its terms  of reference. The example of the Congo shows  clearly enough how difficult decolonization is, how  the mobilized interests of the colonizers raay  paralyse and hinder the achievement of genuine
284  PLENARY MEETINGS  independence, the negative balance sheet left by  colonialism in the countries which it 1s forced to give  up and which, through its fault, are deprived of  trained officials in the key spheres of administration  and community life. I repeat that, while only some  countries are responsible for thie state of affairs, it  is the duty of us all to help improve the situation, to  meet impartially the needs of the former colonies,  and to do 80 immediately.
10,20 It is therefore clear that the Unesco pro-  gramme for the next two years should be concentrated  on the most pressing needs of the newly emergent  countries, particularly those of Africa, in education,  science, culture and technical assistance. If we have  become used to saying that this session is the session  of Africa, that 1s not only because the young African  countries have joined Unesco in such large numbers,  but principally because the needa of these countries  claim the attention of every chapter in Unesco's  programme, It is obvious that these new African  members of our Organization must begin by defining  their respective needs and describing the type of aiu  they would like, But many endeavours of other  countries in this connexion show how much behindhand  we are and how urgent are Africa's needa.
10.21 The Polish delegation has submitted two draft  resolutions, one on the conservation of the cultural  heritage of the African countries and the other on the  contribution to be made to the training of scientists  and technicians in countries undergoing rapid develop-  ment. We are convinced that these two resolutions  will answer the needs of the countries of Tropical  Africa - as the address of the delegate of Guinea to  this gathering seems to show - and will obtain the  support of the General Conference.
10.22 The example of the Congo makes lt possible  to see how and In what ways an international organi-  zation must act so as to avoid mistakes like those  committed to the disadvantage of the Congolese  people and their legal government headed by  Mr. Lumumba, Therefore, our delegation, while  fully supporting the Director-General's proposed  programme of aid to Tropical Africa in general and  the Congo in particular, draws attention to the fact  that this activity should comply with the needs defined  by the countries theniselves, in conformity with the  principles of impartial aid, respect for national  sovereignty and the legality of the government insti-  tutions of these countries, We should also like to  express our deepest sympathy with Cuba in its  struggle to consolidate its independence and with the  problems that beset it in that connexion,
10.23 I now come to a question which has, alas,  become traditional in our discussions, namely, the  question of the participation of the People's Republic  of China, I sald" alas" because it is something for  us to be ashamed of, It is obvious to anyone at all  that none of the problems facing mankind today can  be solved without the participation of a country which  is in fact a continent and contains almost a quarter of  the world's population. The absurdity is altogether  too flagrant, when we are asked to believe that China  is represented, when all we have here is a handful of  politicians belonging to the Chiang Kai-shek group,  who represent no one but themselves.
10.24 If the principle of universality, which is the  reason for our Organization's existence, ie not to   PLENARY  remain merely a phrase in our Conatitution but is to  become a living reality, we must admit to our Orga-  nization all those States which are carrying out on  their own territory large-scale activities conforming  to our objectives in education, science and culture,  all those States which are prevented from joining our  Organization by the erection of artificial barriers  against them. I am thinking now of the German  Democratic Republic, the Democratic Republic of  Viet-Nam, the Democratic People's Republic of  Korea and the Mongolian People's Republic.
10.25 The principle of universality also requires  that the General Conference shall lower the similar  barriers blocking the way to the great democratic  international non-governmental organizations, Indeed,  the programmes and activities of thece organizations  conform to the tasks and alms of Unesco, Their co-  operation with Unesco is one of the conditions of the  truly universal nature of our Organization.
10.26 Mr. President, fellow delegates, the Polish  delegation approves in principle the budget ceiling  voted by the General Conference. But we consider  it necessary to comment on this subject.
10.27 We have on very many occasions pointed out  that the proper working of our Organization depends  on a fair geographical distribution in the Unesco  machine as a whole. Progress towards the solution  of this problem is very slow and must be given an  impetus. It has beén made still more acute by the  arrival of new Member States, particularly those of  Africa. The Polish delegation considers this is a  question of particular importance to the future  activity of our Organization.
10.28 With regard to our Organization's budget,  there is one vital problem, namely, Unesco's very  limited resources in relation to the tasks it should  perform. When we realize that a mere thousandth  part of the sums now spent on armaments is seven  times larger than the total budget of our Organization,  we see the senseless situation in which we are  placed. However that may be, we need funds so  that Unesco's activities can be improved. We can  only obtain more if we can show that they will be  used rationally. To win the battle to increase our  Organization's budget - and without doing so its work  will always be restricted - we must improve its  machinery, we must show that the funda we obtain  will not be used to increase administrative expendi-  ture but really to expand Unesco's operations. The  question of administrative costs should once again  be carefully examined. What we must seek is to  improve Unesco's activities to the maximum, to use  its funds to the best possible purpose so as to finance  the essential activities of this Organization in which  we all place such high hopes and which we wish the  greatest success.
11. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon Mr. Lund, President of the National  Commission for Unesco and Head of the delegation  of Sweden.
12,1 Mr. LUND (Sweden):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish first  to stress the great interest taken by the Swedish  Government in the work of Unesco, especially in that  part of the programme which concerns the developing  MEETINGS XVII  countries. I do s0 the more readily, since Sweden  has no interest of its own to look after, either in  Africa or in Asia, My Government considers it very  important that Unesco's efforts be concentrated to a  still greater axtent upon the tasks in these countries  and that other activities, if possible, be postponed so  as to divert more money to these urgent needs. By  voluntary contributions, the Swedish Government and  the Swedish people are giving large sums through  various United Nations agencies and bilateral  arrangements to bring about better social, economic,  cultural and educational conditions in the countries  concerned, and they are ready to continue and to  increase their contribution, Nor, in speaking of  voluntary contributions to developing countries,  should we forget what the Christian missionaries  have done in the field of education, Had it not been  for the Christian missionary schools, the educational  situation in the Congo and in Africa as a whole would  have been still worse than it 1s today.
12,2 In his proposed programme and budget, the  Director-General has presented many fine and well  thought out programmes for Africa which have our  fullest support, as has the special Unesco aid to the  Congo within the framework of the civilian operations  of the United Nations, This kind of action, concrete  and solid, which is also inspired by strong sympathy  for those in need, can arouse active interest in  Unesco!s work among the broad masses in our  countries, Such stimulation of public interest is most  necessary, and also helps to inspire the confidence  in Unesco's work within the Departments of Finance  In our respective countries which is sometimes even  more necessary,
12.3 One cannot, however, inspire confidence in  Unesco by merely proposing and voting lump sums of  millions or less, for no specific purpose, as additions  to an otherwise well thought out budget, as has been  done at this Conference. I well remember a session  of the General Conference, not many years ago, when  exactly this way of dealing with the budget ceiling was  characterized by a very respected delegate, now  holding - and rightly so - a very high post in the  Executive Board, as adolescent. At this Conference,  this same adolescent and {irresponsible way of hand-  ling budget matters has been transformed into and  elevated to the status of the highest and finest  statesmanship.
12.4 Ido think, Mr, President, that we must avoid  using Unesco'a budget as a propaganda platform in a  race to win the sympathies of new Member States, be  it in Africa or elsewhere, just as we should cease to  use Unesco as a propaganda platform for political  ideas and aims, I do not wish to give the impression  that we are unwilling to play our part. On the  contrary, as I said before, we want the Director-  General and hig staff to think out and plan a long-  range programme for education in the developing  countries, and the r8le Unesco is to play in this  programme, and to present it, with all its financial  implications, to the General Conference. I am sure  that he will be given our support for any such pro-  gramme, for what the Head of the delegation of the  United Kingdom said the other day is true; the  taxpayer in every country is prepared to pay for  education, he it of his own children or the children  of others.
12.5 As regards the international campaign for the  safeguarding of the monuments of Nubia, the Swedish  delegation has presented à draft resolution. This is  only one proof of the interest this imaginative project  has aroused in my country; as you know, our King  has taken a special interest in the plan, and has also  used his personal authority to promote it, Therefore  we are anxious that both countries that are affected  by the plan, although their circumstances may vary,  should have the same opportunity to make use of the  possibilities created by the international campaign,  We find it essential that the panel of experts appointed  by the Sudanese Government should also receive the  assistance of Unesco. Further, we strongly urge  the Director-General to set up a small international  committee of experts to advise him on the co-ordina-  tion and execution of the operations. It seems to us  quite obvious that Unesco must be responsible for  the use of the financial resources and equipment that  may result from the international campaign. It is  also necessary to give advice as to what sort of help  seerns most profitable at a given moment, whether  this help should go in the first place to the United  Arab Republic or to Sudan, and whether, under  certain given circumstances, it should be used for  the safeguarding of stationary monuments or for  archaeological excavations. We must arrive at a  clear definition of Unesco!'s position and responsi-  bility in this very important matter, so that the plan  will work smoothly when it is finally implemented.
12,6 In passing, Mr, President, I should like to  stress that in the planning of the programmes for  Africa we should not forget our previous long-range  projects, especially the East-West Major Project,  which may otherwise be overlooked at this session  of the General Conference.
12,7 I shall also say a few words about Unesco's  activities in the educational field, especially in  adult education. The Swedish delegation has studied  the adult education programme with special interest.  Sweden holds the opinion that adult education should  occupy a much larger part of Unesco's programme  than has been the case during the life of our Organi-  zation. It 18 our conviction that aduit education acti-  vities are an absolute prerequisite for the develop-  ment of democratic societies, and this is true both  of less developed socteties and of more advanced  countries. For in all countries there aye people who  in their younger days did not enjoy the educational  opportunities they ought to have had, and who have  to compensate this at a later period in their lives.  This means a broadening of the ground from which  the leaders of the country are to be recruited - I am  not speaking exclusively of political leaders. Ina  democratic society this is most necessary, so that  the leadership of a country will not be limited to a  small group of people who in their youth had the  privilege of a higher education. .
12.8 The first draft programme for the forthcoming  period did not confirm our hopes, The adult education  programme in this first draft was - if I may say so -  as usual presented without imagination or any real  conception of the rôle that such activities should  rightly play within Unesco. We were somewhat  relieved when we received the Addendum and Corri-  gendum; I might go so far an to say that we were  impressed by the serious and rapid consideration  given by the Director-General to the resolutions and -  results of the World Conference on Adult Edutation,  held in Montreal in August, which is reflected in  these documents, I shail not go into details but  we find with great satisfaction that the allocations  have been considerably raised, and that the Secreta-  riat has given up i{s résistance to the consultative  committee on adult education, and that there will be  more possibilities for co-operation with non-govern-  mental organizations, which in this field play an all-  important rôle. This does not infer that the Swedish  delegation is satisfied with the position that adult  education is now to be given within Unesco's pro-  gramme and we hope that in planning the next pro-  gramme the Director-General will find possibilities  of raising the sums considerably, We also hope that  the Hamburg Institute will be incorporated in the  adult education programme of research work in a  field where already the Eclentists of the United  States have made 80 many contributions of such  outstanding quality.
12,9 1 regret that I cannot conclude this part of my  speech without making one more very strong point on  behalf of the Swedish delegation. It is with the great-  est apprehension that we find that the organizational  problems of the Education Department have not yet  been solved. For years this Department has been  suffering from the lack of a strong competent Director.  We fear that the improved programme for adult edu-  cation and the work of the Department as a whole will  not be successfully carried out unless they are  directed by persons of high competence, both as  educationalists and as administrators.
12.10 This leads me to the last problem with which
1 shall deal, Much has been said at this Conference  about administration and the administrative costs of  Unesco, and proposals for severe cuts have been put  forward. It is always difficult to discuss questions  of this kind, but there are some facts which one  cannot avoid noticing when studying the administration  of Unesco. At the last General Conference, Unesco  had here in Paris one Director-General and two  Assistant Directors-General. Now we have hére in  Parls one Director-General, one Deputy Director-  General and three Assistant Directors-General, and  we are informed, much to our astonishment, that the  Director-General Is canvassing for a fourth Assistant  Director-General, If administration and administra-  tive costs at every level of our Organization are  looked upon in this - shall I say - generous way, it  is easily understandable that administrative costs  grow rapidly. - It is also imperative in an organization  like Unesco, that the Director-General have an  intimate and personal knowledge of the work of the  Secretariat, and it is therefore dangerous for him to  surround himself with an insulating and protective  group of Deputy and Assistant Directors-General.
12,11 Our delegation, therefore, is very much in  favour of a proposal contained in a draft resolution  put forward by several States requesting an analysis  of the operations of the Secretariat to be based on  surveys and management studies carried out by  experts. But I must emphasize that the responsibility  rests also with the Chairman and the members of the  Executive Board, who will need to follow the develop-  ment of the administrative costs most carefully.  Much could be said, I think, for a proposal put   PLENARY  forward by the Head of the delegation of the Union of  Soviet Soclalist Republics to cut down the administra-  tive costs by a certain percentage, To cut down  costs for a given amount of work by a giyen percent-  age 13 a method very often used both in‘private and  public enterprise. I do not know whether this method  is applicable here, and I am very anxious to state  that my criticism does not imply a criticism of the  Secretariat as a whole, Anyone who knows some-  thing of the work of the Secretariat also knows that  the overwhelming majority of its members are  capable, energetic and hard working men and women.
12.12 Mr. President, on another point I do not  agree with the distinguished Head of the delegation  of the Unlon of Soviet Socialist Republics. I refer to  his proposal to replace the post of the Director-  General by an executive body of three, one of whom  should come from the group of neutral countries,  and to divide the Executive Board into three groups,  one representing the neutral countries. This pattern,  I understand, would also be followed in building up  the whole Secretariat, The least that could be said  of this proposal 1s that it would certainly not reduce  the administrative costs of our Organization. But  apart from any such consideration, this classification  not only has no foundation in the Constitution of  Unesco but runs directly counter to its very spirit.  Were the officers of the Secretariat to be recruited  on the basis suggested, they would automnatically  appear to be depéndent on Influences and instructions  from their respective groups, and would lose their  character of international civil servants owing  exclusive loyalty to Unesco and the United Nations.  This would be a serious retrograde step and would  have a very harmful effect on our Organization.
12.13 It might be argued that when our Constitution  speaks of recruitment "on as wide a geographical  basis as possible", its authors had in mind some  kind of groupings along the suggested lines, but that  is certainly not the case. Geographical balance in  personnel recruitment {3 one thing, and a good thing  at that; classification according to ideological or  military affillations is quite another thing, and it  should be rejected. It is true of course, that some  countries have gatheréd together to form military  alliances, But why should these groupings be  construed as guiding the behaviour of these countries  in non-military affairs? And what basic character-  istics can be said to Lie common to all the countries  in different parts of the world grouped together in  the so-called "neutralistic” bloc?
12.14 We in Sweden: do not belong to any military  bloc, and our socal’ and economie structure ie not  patterned on that of any other country or group of  countries. Neverthéless we have close and cordial  relations with many, dountries who do belong to  military alliances and to groups with a cornron  ideological outlook, Just as we have very friendly  relations with many countries outside such alliances  and groups. We certainly do not feel and act as  members of a coherent third group, labelled  "neutral" or "neutralistic",
12,16 The division of the world according to the  concept of three groups is, in our view, artificial,  Moreover, were it to be accepted, it might-do aclual  harm to the structure of Unesco by forcing groups of  countries to act in an identical way, each according  MEETINGS Xv  to the pattern of its group, and it might deepen the  already existing differences between such groups,  As we see it, Unesco is organized to serve the peace  of all individual countries and of the world, This  aim should be sought by constant efforts to achieve  co-operation and increase confidence between all  nations,
12,16 Mr. President, I have thought it necessary  to argue at some length in order to point out the  fallacy and, indeed, the danger of the three group  concept. This does not mean, of course, that the  Swedish delegation is wholly satisfied with the geo-  graphical distribution of the staff of the Secretariat,  We sincerely hope that the efforts to recruit person=  nel on a broader geographical basis will be actively  pursued. But in doing 80, let us uphold the principle  of independent international civil servants, This is  the one condition on which Unesco cen survive.
13. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon H.R.H. Princess Souvanna Phouma,  Head of the delegation of Laos.
14.1 H.R.H. Princess Souvarma PHOUMA (Laos)  (Translation from tho French};  Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, fellow  delegates, the delegation of Laos is particularly  happy to add its tribute to those with which the  eleventh session of the General Conference of Unesco  has again opened this year, In addition to the satis-  faction it gives me to expréss from this platform my  approval of the results obtained in Laos, I have been  given the honour of paying solemn tribute to the  devotion of the expert Louis Chabert, who died for  the noble cause of Unesco. His sacrifice will stand  as an example of altruism to the young Laotians of  tomorrow.
14.2 Apart from Louls Chabert, whose death cast a  shadow over us at the beginning of this year, only a  few weeks ago the distiiguished representative of  Mexico on the Executive Board passed away and  Mr. Gaston Berger, of France, whose high moral  and scientific authority gained the profound respect  of everyone, lost his life in a tragic accident, I  should like to express here, at Unesco, the profound  sympathy of my Government.
14.3 Several experts have been sent to Laos under  the Unesco programme of Technical Assistance, and  the missions to our coubtry, both under your prede-  cessor, Mr. Director-General, and yourself, have  always given us the moral and material aid for which  we hoped, 1 should like to express my country's  gratitude,
14.4 There is no question of our requécting Unesco  to supply ue with everything we need to implement  our educational programmes, I should like to  mention that, undér the heading of cultural assist-  ance, France is supplying us with the teaching staff  we need for our secondary schools and universities.  For their part, the United States of America, inter  alia, has financed the construction of a university at  Vientiane, and the United Kingdom, several cf the  Colombo Plan countries and private organizations  have offered fellowships and teachers for the study  of English.
14.5 In addition to this aid already granted, the  contribution of Unesco is extremely valuable in
287   Xvi PLENARY MEETINGS  accelerating the rate of education of our children.
1 say "accelerating because it must be admitted  that since the disaster of the last war we are obliged  to live at a rate to which we were little accustomed  in the colonial period,
14.6 Colonialism has come under heavy fire and is  still being attacked, I do not want to speak at length _  on this difficult and painful topic, But too much has  been said both about this and about the cold war at  this session for me to be able to pass over these two  new items that have been introduced into our  discussion.
14,7 It seems to me that the recent admission of  our new colleagues to Unesco should have caused us  to rejoice at the political independence their  countries had just obtained rather than deliver a  passionate and indiscriminate attack on a dying  system which this gathering is unanimous in its  desire to abolish. May I say, with due respect to  the lofty aspirations expressed here, that the close  and trustful relations which still exist between  France and my country may be convincing proof that  the colonial powers have not always been merely  oppressors, And what is true of France and Laos  may certainly be true of other countries. Those of  my listeners who know that I went into voluntary  exile for three years before we obtained the inde-  pendence so dear to us will not doubt my sincerity  in this regard.
14.8 We fully approve the Report on the Activities  of the Organization, which shows, if there were any  need to do sa, the success and greatness of your  mission, Mr, Director-General.
14.9 The words of the distinguished speakers  preceding me on thie platform confirm my belief  that generosity - the keystone of our Organization -  will finally prevail over world dissension,
14.10 For how can we doubt the success of our  underiaking when every year our great family  becomes bigger and stronger? I should like to  express the cordial welcoine of my Government to  the new Member States.
14.11 Inspired by the same faith, by the same ideal  to defend and disseminate culture throughout the  world, I am convinced that we shall continue more  than ever before, all of us together, to be that which  unites and cements, removed from the political  events of a restless and troubled world in which  wisdom does not seem always to prevail, since some  of us have even observed the cold war invading  our midat,, .  ‘14.12 Mr. President, fellow delegates, in this  regard I should liks to remind you of the famous  parable of the great Indian poet and sage, the  unforgettable Rabindranath Tagore, a parable which  Laos has adopted as iis cwn;
14.13 "A fool wandered the world in search of the  philosopher's stone, his hair matted, weather beaten,  covered in dust, his body reduced to a shadow, his lig,  as tightly oet as the closed door of his heart, his eyes  barning like the lamp of a glow-worm seeking its mate.  - In fron’, of him boomed the vast ocean.  The murmuring waves told of the treasures hidden  beneath them and mocked the ignorant fool who could  not understand them. -  . He, without hope or rest, continued the search  that had become hin life.  Like the ocean which eternally rises towards the  heavens to attain the inaccessible;  Like the stars which turn in their orbits, striving  for an aim unreached;  So, on the deserted shore, the fool, his wild hair  thick with dust, wandered in search of the  philosopher! s stone.  One day, a little village boy came up to him and  asked: 'How did you find that golden chain, which
18 tied round your waist?!  The fool started; the chain, once of iron, had  turned to goldl He was not dreaming; how had the  change come about?  He beat his brow. Where, oh where had his  dream come true without his Imowing?  It had been his habit to test the stones he picked  up by knocking them against his chain, after which  he had thrown them away mechanically, without  looking to see if there had been any change.  And so it was that the poor fool had found and lost  the philosopher's stone."
14.14 Mr, President, my dear colleagues, is not  the whole of the world's culture ultimately that ~  philosopher's stone of which the poet speaks? Let  us know. wherein our riches consist and guard them  jealously, Let us not be so mad as to throw into the  ocean of misunderstanding and discord this precious  stone we have it last discovered.
14.15 For we too should certainly find it impossible  to recover - and the frightened eye of the village  child would look at us in dumb reproach.
15. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon H,E. Don Carlos Roberto Reina, Head  of the delegation of Honduras.
16.1 Mr. REINA (Honduras) (Translation from the  Spanish);  Mr, President, fellow delegates, as delegate of  the Government of the Republic of Honduras to this  session of the General Conference, it gives me great  pleasure to bring warm greetings to all the delega-  tions here present and to the leading members of  this international organization. In particular, we  greet the new African nations who are now an integral  part of Unescu and who have attained their independ-  ence after a lodg and painful ‘period of colonization.
16.2 We all hope that these vigorous peoples from  the African continent will take their rightful place  among the peace loving nations,
16.3 On this platform of free men, it Là always  well to proclaim to the other nations working for the  betterment of man that human egeism ihroughout  history, thé maintenance of privilege, the foo:ish  bellef fn the existence of superior taces or castes  and indifference to the problems of others are the  eternal causes of all the conflicts which have ulti-  mately developed into war and the thousand and one  barbarities of which man has been the vistim since  his appearance on the face of the earth.
16.4 With regard to the principal purpose of my  speech today, let me begin by saying that criticism  of the work done by tais Organization should be  considered as natural in any body consisting of men  and not of mere cipliers obeying the orders of their  chief.
16.5 In the execution of the work of a complex   PLENARY  organization, it is nature) that there shéuld be Ahort-  comings, sometimes unnoticed by the administrative  officials who are occupying their valuable time in the  performance of tasks which logically direct the policy  of à body with so many complex duties to perform,  Well meant oriticism {s always welcome to men of  good faith who are trying to bring to a successful  conclusion tasks so exalted as those of Unesco.  Honest criticism is the best assurance that an asso-  ciation wili not limit {teelf to the merely formal dis-  charge of ite basic tasks, but will attempt to carry  out its aims fully and more effectively,
16.6 Senior posts in international organizations  should be entrusted to individuals of great under-  standing, who can see clearly that the problems of a  small country, insignificant perhaps in the eyes of a  great power, are just as important as the tremen-  dous and intricate problems of the farthest  developed countries.
16.7 À greater understanding such aa I have  broadly outlined will make it clear that educational  experts, a considerable number of fellowships,  appropriate welfare assistance, etc., are a great  and imperative necessity for many countries which,  through unfavourable historical circumstances, have  not been able to advance in step with the world in  which we live.
16.8 As the representative of a Latin American  country, of that community of rations which is  resolved to assume an important place in the inter-  national organizations now existing, I am highly  gratified to note that my sister nations are treated  in Unesco with all the respect due to them as  independent States,
16.9 I also consider it timely to mention here that  one of the basic concepts of this Organization, one  of the principles of which Unesco should never lose  sight - for that would mean the abandonment of its  basic policy - set out in the Constitution agreed on  in the capital of the Commonwealth, le the following:  "Since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the  minds of men that the defences of peace must be  constructed”, This universal truth is not understood  by thoge who labour to construct in their own minds  barriers of obscurantism which conceal it, Unesco's  work for world peace will be most constructive if it  campaigns with all vigour against discrimination, to  abolish Injustice and to raise men to a level of  equality with their fellows by lighting tne way to  culture.
16.10 Mr, President, fellow delegates, in my  country, in the Republic of Honduras, one of the five  territories of the Central American isthmus, we  need effective ald from this Organization, Our hopes  are placed in it, so that we can continue the educa-  tional task to which we have applied ourselves with  enthusiasm and devotion. Only then shall we be able  to obtain satisfactory results in a short time, results  which would be extremely difficult forus to achieve  MERTINCS
289  xvi  alone, By cherlshing this idea, we believe we are  exercising a“ "‘lemn right, for'we shall be enabled  to bring culture, science and'éducation to a part of  our people who still lack them,
16.11 On the other hand, it would be a great pity if  the absurd dissensions which have held th» world in  suspense were to spread ta this assembly and if the  great dangers lying in wait for mankind were to be  magnified by words spoken from this forum of  learning and education.
16,12 Let us forget for a moment the world in which  we live and let us trust that blocs and rivalries may  give way to efforta to solve the other problems  afflicting our fellows,
16,13 -Not being an expert in educational matters,  I do not feel that I can accurately assess the work  done by Uneaco in recent years, However, from  what we have been able to gather {rom the large  array of documents listed in the agenda, we feel  some confidence that that work has been efficient  and that Unescc's labours are deserving of praise.
16.14 I am most grateful for this opportunity to  express to you in all sincerity the views of my  Government.  The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the Director-General, Dr. Vittorino  Veronese,
18.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL (‘Translation  from the French):  With your permission, Mr. President, I should  like to make a stateinent to this assembly, as Î have  already done to the General Committee of the Confer-  ence, with regard to the impossibility of my attending  simultaneous méetings of sèveral of the organs of the  General Conference,
18.2 -My first duty is to attend the plenary meetings  and to listen to the addresaes of the Heads of dele-  gations, which are of the first importance to me, as  I have tried to show by my daily presence,
18.3 Tomorrow, however, 1 shall have to be present  at meetings of the Administrative Commission, which  has asked me for certain personal statements and  explanations.
18.4 1am taking the opportunity of saylhg this to  you hère, at a public méeting, and to apologize  in advance to certain speakers who, I am sure,  will not interpret my absence as à mark of diarespect.  In any event, my repreuentative will always be  presen to listen to their speeches and to inform me  of their content, which, as you know, I am bound to  take into full consideration. I hope that my absencs  will be as short as possible.  The PRESIDENT:  I now declare the meeting closed.
19.  The meeting rose at 6.20 p.m.