14 November 1960, at 10,45 a.m,  President: Mr, Jean BERTHOIN (France)  CONTENTS  Opening of the session by the Temporary President of the  - General Conference, representing the Head of the Dele-  gatlon of France, . + « + + + 0 4 + 0 0 1 4 0 4 0 0 0 00000 47  Address by the Chairman of the Executive Board ...... 49  Address by the Director-General . , . . . . .. Cees 50  Statement by the Head of the Delegation of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics . 5 2 4 6 4 0 0 0 600 4 06 00000 52  Statement by the President on arrears of contributions . . . 52  Establishment of the Credentials Committee . . . . . . . . . 52  OPENING OF THE SESSION BY THE TEMPORARY PRESIDENT OF  THE GENERAL CONFERENCE, REPRESENTING THE HELD OF THE  DELEGATION OF FRANCE
1.1. Mr, BERTHOIN (France) (Translation from the  French) :-  Ladies and Gentlemen, y ‘before our work begins, it  is my painful duty to inform the General Conference  that two of our national. | delegations have suddenly  been plunged into mourning, Last Thursday after-  noon, in the middle of a meeting of our Executive  Board, the delegate of Mexico - H, E, ‘Dr. Pedro de  Alba, a doctor, philosopher and great- -hearted  humanist - suddenly collapsed and died,” Yesterday,  whilst driving his car, Gaston Berger, one of the  clearest thinkers of our times, our master’ ahd our  single-minded friend, suddenly collapsed and was  killed as his car crashed into an obstacle on the road.  Their lose will be keenly felt, not only by their coun-  tries, which are united in their griel, but also by  Unesco and by all those in the world today. who are  fighting such an erduqus battle for the salvation of  mankind, In circumstances such as these, words  are powerless to express our feelings and the  General Conference will, 1 am sure, wish to show its  sympathy with Mexico and France by observing a  minute's silence,
47  (The delegations obgerved a minute's silence)  .2 On behalf of the head of the French delegation,  : my distinguished friend, Mr. Joxe, Minister of  Education of my country, I have the honour to declare  the eleventh session of the General Conference open,  First of all, I would extend a most cordial welcome  to you all, At this meeting, many of us will have an  opportunity to renew former acquaintances, to meet  again our feilow- -workers whom, we rightly call our  friends, Others are making their first contact with  our great Organization, either because they are  serving for the firet time on the delegation of their  country, which is already a member of Uneaco, or  elàe because the era of international responsibilities  has but recently dawned for their native land. To  the latter especially we extend our good wishes apd  a heart-felt welcome,
1.3 Today, ladies and gentlemen, I still hold that  high office to which ! was appointed two years ago,  thanks to the desire of the tenth General Conférence  to pay homage to France; and as out-going President -  I wish to speak briefly - and, as far as is humanly  possible, without any national bias - in conformity  with the rule which, 1 belleve, should guide all who  occupy this chair that 1 am about to vacate - the rule  that the President should speak to you as one citizen  of the world to his brothers in the numan family.   I PLENARY
1.4 First of all, I should lke to express something  which is, I am sure, in all our hearts and minds at  this time - the feeling of disquiet, if not alarm, which  must weigh on every thinking and feeling persontoday.  It is true that we ara not called upon to wrestle with  problems which are disturbing other assemblies and  come under the jurisdiction of ¢ther bodies, but do  we not inevitably feel our Organization being jarred  to its very foundations by the antagonism, rivalries,  misunderstandings and bitterness which make the  peoples of the world - driven beyond endurance and  with their nerves at breaking-point - wonder whether  they will not, once again, end by paying the terrible  price ?
1.5 It is, indeed, amazing that, despite the burden  of sorrows they have borne and the disasters they  have endured, men should still fail to realize that  they are rushing together towards the abyss, and  that now that they are faced with all the forces of  nature which they are "releasing", as the saying  goes, they have only one chance of salvation - to  cease fighting, and to unite,
1.6 In any case, can a man really be happy living  under a constant threat - a threat which is even  harder to endure when he realizes that those he loves  are in danger too ? As he waits for news of some  fruitless meeting, some unsuccessful conference,  as he hears of insults and the brandishing of arms,  the thinking man must, in the end, fall into the most  profound despair.
1.7 For my part, I can affirm that, since I have  held this signal office, I have never before been more  conscious of the need, the urgent need, for the nations  to recognize their underlying unity, nor more certain  that mankind is being drawn ineluctably tovards an  alternative which it cannot avoid facing - brother-  hood or death.
1.8 And realization of this fact adds singularly to  the importance of our rdle, our responsibilities and  consequently our duties. For, however serious our  set-backs, we must not allow ourselves to sink into  despaiy; that would be our ultimate downfall, and  the abandonment of that faith which sustains us in all  adversity,
1.9 We have no material power - and it is to our  honour - to command respect for the most preclous  qualities fn Man, which cannot be measured in terms  of quantity or force; but are we doing all that we  could to let people know what we are and what we  can contribute to the salvation of the human race ?
1,10 Are we making enough effort to see that people  know about the tasks which are being accomplished in  the name of Unesco, by Unesco, within Unesco, by so  many conscientious, willing workers, and which  become ever more urgent as the danger increases ?  Are we doing enough to ensure that, through our  governments and the various information media and  organs of opinion in our couniries, Unesco's work is  being brought before the public as it deserves to be,  and that, as the fate of mankind hangs in the balance,  the justice and truth of that work are tipping the  scales, however slightly, in our favour ? Let us  dare to go further still : as the network of media  - radio, cinema and television - capable of reaching  the ears of the most distarit or the most deaf, the  eyes of the most remote o¢ the most blind, grows  denser every day, are we doing enough to ensure  LS
48  MEETINGS  .  that all these scientific achievements, admirable for  the intelligence to which they testily, are really being  used in the service of Man - that is, to promote his  material and moral welfare ? Unfortunately, either  because of our improvidence, or because we have  confused licence and liberty, they are often like those  glorious flowers in which the most deadly poisons lie  hidden, And finally, let us all - whether we be men  of action or intellectuals - take the last step and,  answerable to our conscience - or our God - ask  ourselves whether we are quite sure that we think  enough about all this, and about the responsibilities  devolving upon us.
1.11 ‘Humanity is caught up In a headlong, giddy  flight, which will end one day in triumph or disaster;  and when we return to our respective countries, we  shall not have fulfilled our duty to mankind, whose  soul hovers uneasily about the august building in  which we are meeting, if we do not remain, or  become, faithful and zealous servants - if not the  apostles - of all these causes which, with many  others, are but the concrete expression of the ideals  which are the corner-stone of our Organization, and  on whose defeat or victory our fate depends.
1,12 Now that we are welcoming to our Organization  the representatives of countries which have recently  achieved independence, we shall be required to  assume still greater responsiblities - provided, of  course, that these young nations seek the entirely  disinterested assistance which Unesco is ready to  offer them. If so, strong links will be forged, to the  advantage of all concerned, between Unesco and the  new States; and as these links grow stronger, they  will be a pledge of mutual understanding and a  substantial guarantee of security, better living  conditions and progress for the young nations.
1.13 For, in times like ours, independence is a  very precarious and frail thing. What country in the  world today can really claim to be independent, in the  sense in which the term has been used throughout the  centuries ? And in the world of tornorrow, which is  taking shape before our eyes, it will be even less  possible to make such a claim. Is it not evident that,  apart from possible catastrophes, we are in a transi-  tion stage between the polytheism of sovereign States  and a sort of economic monotheism, which would in  itself be formidable, were the forces of which it is  composed and the needs which are its motive power  not controlled, gulded and dominated by the noble  moral ideals, the lofty philosophical or religious  inspiration which it is. Unesco's task to reveal and  to harmonize, so that, like some great symphony, ft  may touch the heart of the world?
1.14 How lucky these young States are! What  security they enjoy in the certainty that, as they set  out on their difficult journey, béset by ambushes and  morasses, and watched by eyes that are not always  kindly and friendly, they will meet an Organization  such as ours, ready to receive them without any  ulterior motives, in a spirit of true brotherhood,  an Organization which exists for the purpose of  helping, wherever help is needed and requested, to  promote and consolidate human progress, without  which no State can long survive.
1.15 1 said just now that independence is a precari-  ous thing; the truth is, of course, that we are all  governed by the law of dependence. And, while it   PLENARY MEETINGS I  is a commonplace to say that the more our way of  life has developed, the less it depends on us alone  and {s conditioned by markets in distant parts of the  world, it cannot be repeated too often that the dream  of a society of peoples living In concord and in peace,  who have retained of achieved their individuality,  can never come true unlesr {hese nations, like large  families, learn to work together in conscious, willing  interdependence, and assist one another, exchanging  the good things that result from their very diversity.
1,16 What better place could there be than this to  realize both the overriding necessity and the nobility,  of working together in consclous, willing inter-  dependence ? Where could we learn to do so better  than here? This is indeed the rule that we are  striving to apply in every field of our work, in the  form of mutual understanding, friendly interest in  whatever affects others and gratitude for what we  can do for one another ; it may be noted, however,  that our mutual help would cease if ever we were  mad enough to try to superimpose on all the different  peoples, even though united in world-wide friendship,  a uniform civilization, suggestive of some sort of  spiritual dictatorship !
1.17 For another honour that we prize very highly  is that, great and small, rich and poor, we are  striving here, as one man, to promote all the differ-  ent cultures by providing opportunities for them to  meet, to make contact with each other and to emulate  each other freely, as one of our first Directors-  General said,
1.18 Unesco, then, is the very opposite of a gather-  ing of people condemned by their very interests and  limitations to Platonic activities, It is, indeed - and  this is something it should never forget - the crucible  in which the principles of justice are fused - those  principles which alone can ensure peace without  hypocrisy. ‘This is our glory, and the more nations  there are to share that glory, the more we rejoice,
1.19 Today, however, I feal a certain sadness,  which, I know, you will understand and forgive.
1,20 Tasks such as those we have been thinking of,  the common impulse which daily unites so many men  of goodwill in inspiring ventures, the vivid memory  of invaluable friendships with members of the Execu-  tive Board, at whose meetings 1 have observed the  quality of the work done by all your representatives,  under the high-minded, genial and firm guidance of  its distinguished Chairman, Sir Ben Bowen Thomas,  and the exceptional achievements of the administra-  tion, led by you, Mr. Director-General, so gracious-  ly and so competently - the Executive Board, at which  I have been conscious of muiual affection and trust -  the counterpart of that affection and trust which we  long to see in this poor world - brave in the face of  constant trial - all these things will explain my  desire - perhaps somevhat exaggerated - to make this  simple speech, as the final act of my term of office,  which has meant so much to me,
1.21 For a moment 1 imagined that I was the bearer  of the world's conscience - that conscience in which  we all have our part, but which is a tremendous,  indivisible entity, transcending the nations of the  world, You will not smile at my delusion, I am sure.
1.22 The truth is that I have been supported by you  all, by that joint and therefore unlimited strength  which lifts us all who are men.bers of this comraunity
49  above ourselves, as we see what troubles have to be  remedied and realize what has been achieved and  - still more important - what remains to be done.
1,23 This profound sense of sharing in clear-sighted  and benevolent activities, common tasks and mutual  assistance will, for me, always be associated with  you, and wi'l'be an honour, a delight and a lesson to  me throughout my life,
1.24 Time and again I shall return in spirit to these  lofty halls, around which, on the soil of France, so  many flags, both time-worn and new, flutter in the  same breeze; and when 1 am overwhelmed by fears  or weighed down by doubt, 1 shall come lo this temple  of brotherhood, where so many acts of undying faith  have been performed, a faith which will fire our  successors in their turn (I greet them on their way) ;  and here I shall meditate, undaunted, and renew my  faith in Wisdom and in Light.  ADDRESS 8Y THE CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD
2, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon Sir Ben Bowen Thomas, Chairman of  the Executive Board.
3.1 Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom),  Chairman of the Executive Board :  Mr, President, Mr, Director-General, fellow  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, one of the conven-  tions of our General Conference requires that the  Chairman of the Executive Board should follow you,  Mr. President, in addressing this opening session,  My first word is a tribute to you, Mr. President.  Not all the members of the General Conference will  realize that ite President automatically becomes an  ex officlo member of the Executive Board for two  years. Indeed none of your predecessors seem to  have acknowledged this fact, even if they realized  it. You Sir, have exercised your rights throughout the  last two years to the great advantage of the Executive  Board's deliberations. You have attended all our  sessions - I cannot say every one of our meetings -  but the Executive Board has on a number of occasions  profited from your presence and from your participa-  tion in our discussions, I cannot say in our decisions  because our Constitution denies the President a vote.  { know that my colleagues on the Executive Board  would wish me to thank you for this proof of your  abiding interest in the work of our Organization.
3.2 You, Mr. President, have already noted the  loss which the Executive Board suffered in its con-  cluding session on the eve of this Conference through  the sudden death of our Mexican member, H, E. Dr.  Pedro de Alba, All his fellow members had a great  affection for him; in a sense he was our elder  statesman, His services to-international under-  standing spanned two generations: he belonged to  the old order and to the new, to the League of Nations  and to the United Nations, to the International Com-  mittee on Intellectual Co-operation and to Unesco.  His life-long experience and his contemporary vision  were great assets to us, For several years his  Government had assigned him to special duties abroad  that included representation upon a number of Special-  ized Agencies of the United Nations, in addition to  Uresco, so that he came to us as an exceptionally   I PLENARY  wel{-informed and valuable member. But to hia pro-  fessional competence he added a most gracious  presence, the influence of which we all felt, Our  grief ut the loss of H, E. Dr, Pedro de Alba may  slowly pass, but our sense of indebtedness to him  will Inst a very long time, 1am sure that my col-  leagues of the Executive Board would wish me to  thank the members of the General Conference for  their tribwte to his memory.
3.3 And this morning, Mr, President, the Executive  Board heard with profound regret of the tragic death  of Mr, Gasion Berger, and expressed its deep aym-  pathy with their colleague, Mr, Julien Cain, with the  French National Commission, and with your country,  Sir, at the lois of this most distinguished Frenchman,  He believed in Unesco, he worked for it, as his  vigorous chairmanship of the National Commission  has shown, Last year he presided over a round  table which met in this hall on the occasion of the  General Conference, and we had hoped to profit  during this Conference from his great ability and  experience, Please allow nie, Mr, President, to  say that the Executive Board associates itself fully  with the gesture cf sympathy already made by this  General Conference,
3.4 In the Interval of two years between the tenth  session of the (leneral Conference and this one, the  Executive Boaird, in co-operation with the Director-  General, has represented the General Conference,  which is the rovereign body of the Organization, in  supervising its work. This has not been an easy  task; Unesco's work is growing in size, in scope  and in complexity. This fact has called forth re-  serves of insight and courage, energy and resource-  fulness from the Director-General and his staff, and  ft is with particular pleasure that we greet him and  his staff at the opening of this General Conference.  It marks the culmination of two years' hard labour and  holds out prospects of even greater demands for the  immediate future, We wish the Director-General  and his staff well.
3.5 1 do not intend to detain the Conference, Mr.  President, I merely want to make one general  observation, We are all aware of the powerful  forces that are transforming the world and you have  reminded us of them ; these have made and are  making new demands on a scale never made before  in Unesco's history. They have added substantially  to the number of our Member States whom we welcome  most cordially, They have increased the extent and  the range of Unesco's relations with the United Na-  tions, with a larger number of Specialized Agencies  and with other international organizations, The con-  sequences of these facts are shot through the work  now facing the Conference, particularly when it  addresses itself to the programme and budget pro-  posals for examination.
3.6 The Executivit Board has been feeling the  impact of all this in the sheer size of its agenda,  from session to session, and in the number of new  items brought to its notice under the pressure of  world events. The Executive Board is acrepting  the challenge of the situation and it has decided as  an initial response to it to invite the next Executive  Board, as a matter of urgency, to institute an inquiry  into the present methods of work of our Organization  to see how they can best be adapted to meet the new
50  MEETINOS  ty  conditions, so different from the ones which prevailed  when the present rules and methods that guide us were  agreed, Thu Executive Board wants to be sure that  the day-to-day means at the digposal of Unesco should  always be equaltothe ends which itis intended to serve,  and,inthis matter, I amgladto say we find ourselves  in completé agreement withthe Director-General,
3.7 Finally, Mr, President, 1 hope the members of  the Conference will find the preparatory work of the  Executive Board a real help to them in the days that  lie ahead.  ADDRESS BY THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL
4, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) :  I call upon the Director-General.
5.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL (Translation from  the French) :  Mr. President, Mr, Chairman of the Executive  Board, ladies and gentlemen, at the opening of this  eleventh session of the General Conference I have  great pleasure in greeting the delegations of the  Member States present, who, I am sure, will be  joined within the next few days by those who, for  various reasons, have not been able to be present  today in this assembly.
5.2 1 wish to welcome especially the representatives  of those States which have become members of the  Organization since the last session of the General  Conference. Unesco is proud to be able to welcome  them to this building, which has now become their  home. In recent months - even in recent weeks -  the great family of our Member States has grown  still larger; a number of African countries, which  have finally achieved independence during 1960,  decided tu become members of Unesco immediately  after entering the United Nations organization,
5.3 Their presence means that the Organization has  moved one step further towards world membership ;  and as they join us I should like them to know that we  are aware of both their aspirations and their needs.  I have no doubt that, at the present session, the  General Conference will wish to pay constant atten-  tion to their problems and interests, so that they may,  from the outset, play their part as fully and as  effectively as possible in the work of international  co-operation and mutual assistance for which the  Organization exists. How delighted all the present  members are - both foundation members of the  Organization and those States which have become  members more recently, to be able to hold out the  hand of friendship to them today |
5.4 I also greet the representatives of the United  Nations and the Specialized Agencies. There are  many bonds between us, which are growing stronger  with the years, and we are fighting shoulder to  shoulder with them against the scourges of mankind  - poverty, hunger, sickness and ignorance - which  can be overcome only by action on a united front.
5.5 I welcome, too, the representatives of the  other intergovernmental organizations and the  observers of the international non-governmental  organizations which are dedicated to the same ideal  as Unenco, and many of which assist substantially  in the execution of our programme.   PLENARY
5,6 As we meet at the Organization's Headquarters,  in a setting which has now become familiar to most  of you, we remember that we are enjoying the hospi-  tality of France and of its capital city, the intellectual  and spiritual glory of which enriches all who live or  meet on this favoured soil, - -
5,7 You, Mr, President, who presided with distine-  tion and courtesy ovér the deliberations of the tenth  session of the General Conference, have retained  your affection for this building as if you were its  faithful friend, and have maintained your kindly  interest in it, I thank you cordially for this,
5.8 The {two-year period which has just ended has  been far from easy for the Secretariat, which, as  well as executing the programme adopted by the  General Conference in 1958, has had to devote a  considerable amount of time and effort, when pre-  paring the programme for the coming two-year  period, to keeping up with the rapid and sometimes  bewildering sequence of events which govern its  activities and adapting itself to new situations. There  have been certain delays as a result of this, which !  regret, but which were beyond our control; and I  especially wish to pay public tribute to the energy  and devotion displayed ty my colleagues ‘and by the  Secretariat as a whole in performing this task. On  the day after tomorrow, I shall have the honour of  putting the main features of this programme before  you, It does, Ithink, take the requirements of the  contemporary world into account, for it has huvn  drawn up after constant study of Unesco'e ‘potontiali-  ties in the light of the position of its Member tates.  As you know, I felt that the two main lines of our  future development and of our programme should be  education and scientific co-operation, with special  emphasis on the needs of States which have recently  attained independence, and particularly the African  States,
5.9 When I took up the duties entrusted to me by  Member States at the end of the last session of the  General Conference, I said how much I was sustained  by the thought that I should not be alone in facing the  task and the responsibilities that I had accepted on  your behalf, at the head of the Secretariat.
5.10 And so, today, I must express my apprecia-  tion of the support given me by Member States over  the past two ycars, of their unfailing interest in the  Organization's problems and activities and the many  different ways in which they have helped the Secre-  tarfat to carry out its task. I wish to thank especially  the Governments 1 have visited during this period,  who have taken the opportunity of direct contact to  show me the actual conditions in their country, to  share their experience with me and inform me of  their views on Unesco's present and future  activities.
5.11 The Executive Board and its Chairman, Sir  Ben Bowen Thomas, have given me firm, unwavering  support, I am greatly indébted to the Executive Board,  which, in these last two years, has given me the  benefit of its advice, supported me in the tasks I  have undertaken and shown understanding and sympa-  thy when difficulties had to be faced. According to  the Constitution, the Director-General prepares the  Proposed Programme and Budget for each two-year
51  MEETINGS i  period, but everyone is aware of the vital part played  by the Executive Board in this respect and, above all,  of the effective, constructive contribution which has  been made by the present Board, by patient, thorough  examination of the Secretariat's proposals at each of  its sessions, to the preparation and final shaping of  the form and content of the Proposed Programme and  Budget which you will be examining in the coming  weeks,
5.12 The Executive Board and Unesco as a whole  have just suffered a tragic loss: we shall remember  H.E. Dr. Pedro de Alba, who died so suddenly last  Thursday while taking part in the Executive Board's  deliberations, as an outstanding example of generous  self-sacrifice in the service uf noble causes, His  wisdom and high-mindedness will always be an  inspiration to all those who have been privileged to  know him and to work with him,
5,13 In paying tribute to this great Mexican, this  great servant of Unesco, ! also, on behalf of the  Secretariat, wish to express my deepest sympathy  with his family and with the Government he repre-  sented with such distinction,
5.14 And it would seem that Fate is still against us,  With much sorrow we have just received news of the  accidental death of Mr, Gaston Berger. He was not  only a philosopher and one of the leading French  thinkers of our day, but also a man of action whose  opinion we always valued particularly highly, and  whose death is an almost irreparable loss, Mr.  Berger, who was the Chairman of the French National  Commission for Unesco, was a great humanist, and  had earned universal respect, He had been associated  with Unesco's work for a very long time and always  took an active interest in the life and development of  the Organization; in recent years, he did much to  promote its advancement. These two outstanding men  would have made a most valuable contribution to the  work of this session of the General Conference, But  however bitterly we may feel the loss of our friends,  Unesco must go on,
5.15 And now we are approaching another stage in  the history of our Organization, in which the sovereign  assembly of which you are members will be called  upon to take many a decision of vital importance for  the future of Unesco, whose firm, practical action  is now more necessary than ever to the world, After  discussion and time for reilection, votes will be  taken, in accordance with the democratic rule in  which we all believe, In wishing you every success  in your work, 1 should like to express my profound  conviction that the General Conference will show  wisdom and serenity, that it will constantly seek to  preserve balance and justice, and that the solutions  it adopts will strengthen the bonds between the  members of the Organization still further so that,  through the advancement of education, science and  culture, we may construct the defences of peace in  a world longing so ardently for it,
5.16 In the words of a poet from Africa, to which  our thoughts and hearts ere turning, may we say,  with conviction: "Together, in these beautiful  surroundings, we shall tend the plant that provides  the best and most nutritious food of all, the food that  gives the nations true strength - peace".   STATEMENT BY THE HEAD OF THE DELEGATION OF THE UNION  OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS
6. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) :  H,E, Mr, Lapin, Head of the delegation of the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, informed me  just now that he would like to make a very short  statement, not connected with the Conference's pro-  gramme of work, immediately after the address you  have just heard, I therefore call upon Mr. Lapin,
7.1 Mr, LAPIN (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  (Translation from the Rusaian) :  Mr, President, fellow delegates, the Director-  General and the President have spoken to us of the  new African States which have become Members of  Unesco, This is a most important event in the  life of our Organization, You will all remember the  enthusiastic and festive welcome accorded to the new  Members à short time ago in the United Nations  General Assembly. There can be no reason why we  should not welcome the new Members of Unesco with  like sincerity and joy.
7.2 May I, on behalf of the delegation of the Union  of Soviet Socialist Republics and the delegations of  the other Soclalist countries, extend a cordial wel-  come to the new Members of Unesco ? The fact that  they are joining cur Organization is evidence of the  enormous changes taking place in the political and  social circumstances of peoples who were once op-  pressed, and furnishes yet another proof of the  inevitability of the complete collapse, in the near  future, of all the colonial régimes, which have  brought so much sorrow and suffering to mankind.  The long colonial domination not only delayed the  economic and cultural development of these peoples for  many years,but also, in many countries led tothe decay  of their economic system and of their national culture,
7.3 On entering Unesco, the new States have a right  to expect that our Organization will help them in  every possible way to raise the standard of their  national culture, science and education, and will  assist them to eliminate for ever the disastrous con-  sequences of colonialism, It is Unesco's sacred duty  to give effective help to peoples which have entered  on the path of independent, autonomous development.  For its part, the Soviet Union is helping and will  continue to help the young States in every possible  way to develop their national ecol:omic systems, and  to revive and improve their national culture, educa-  tion and tclence. We sincerely wish the peoples of  these countries great success in every department  of their national and cultural life, and we greet their  representatives present at this meeting.
7.4 We hope that, as the Conference proceeds,  other States, which, for various reasons, have not  hitherto taken part in its activities, will join Unesco,  and that our Organization will become a truly world-  wide, international Organization,
7.5 Ladies and gentlemen, may I, on behalf of all  the delegations of the socialist countries, express to  the Government, the National Commission and the  members of the delegation of France our deep sym-  pathy at the tragic death of the renowned French  scholar and public figure, the Chairman of the French  National Commission for Unesco, Mr. Gaston Berger.
1 also wish to express our profound sympathy with
52  PLENARY MEETINGS  the Government and the delegation of Mexico to this  Conference at the untimely death of that distinguished  figure in Mexican public affairs and member of  Unesco's "xecutive Board, Dr, Pedro de Alba,  STATEMENT 8Y THE PRESIDENT ON ARREARS OF CONTRIBUTIONS
8,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) :  It is now my duty to make a statement aboutarrears  in payment of contributions and their effect on the  right to vote of Member States at this session of the  General Conference,
8.2 Under Article IV, paragraph 8 (b) of the Consti-  tution, the right of Member States to vote is con-  tingent upon payment of their contributions. Para-  graph 8 (b) reads as follows :  "A Member State shall have no vote in the General  Conference if the total amount of contributions due  frorn it exceeds the total amount of contributions  payable by it for the current year and the immediately  preceding calendar year, "
8.3 At present, four Member States have not the  right to vote at this session of the General Confer-  ence, since the total aniount of contributions due  from them exceeds the total amount of contributions  payable by them for the current year and the immedi-  ately preceding calendar year, These four States are  Bolivia, China, Honduras and Paraguay, Paragraph 8(c)  of Article IV,however, states that the General Confer-  ence may nevertheless permit such a Member States to  vote, if it ie satisfied that the failure to pay is due to  conditions beyond the control of the Member Nation,
8.4 The delegations of the States concerned will  therefore have to decide whether they should request  the General Conference to apply this paragraph,  Such requests, if not already submitted to the  Director-General, should be addressed without delay  to the President of the General Conference, who will  transmit them to the Administrative Commission, to  which such requests are normally r. ferred.  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE
8.5 We shall now elect the Credentials Committee,
8.6 Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure, which con-  cerns this Committee, reads as follows :  "The Credentials Committee shall consist of nine  members, who shall he elected by the General Con-  ference on the proposal of the temporary President.  It shall elect its own Chairman,"
8.7 In accordance with these provisions, I have the  honour to propose that the General Conference appoint  the following States to serve on the Credentials Com-  mittee ;: Argentina, Bulgaria, France, Japan,  Morocco, Philippines, Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, United Kingdom, United States of America.
8.8 If the Conference has no objection, the Cre-  dentials Committee will be so constituted. I shouldalso  state that,inits recommendations to the Nominations  Committee, the Executive Board has proposed that Japan  provide the Chairman of the Credentials Committee.
8.9 I hope that the Committee will be able to present  its report ‘vu the General Conference this afternoon,  about four o'clock.
8.10 The meeting ts adjourned.  The meeting rose at 11. 45 a.m.