12 December 1960, at 3. 50 p.m.  President :  later :  Mr. Akale-Work ABTE-WOLD (Ethiopia)  Mr. Paulo E. de Berredo Carneiro (Brazil)  CONTENTS  Discussion on the rôle of Unesco in contributing to the  attainment of independence by colonial countries and  peoples (conclusion) . DRC I 425  Discussion on International Relations and Exchanges in  Education, Science and Culture (conclusion). . . . . . 434  Addresses by the heads of the delegations « of the Malagasy  Republic and Upper Volta . . .  DISCUSSION ON THE ROLE OF UNESCO IN CONTRIBUTING TO  THE ATTAINMENT OF INDEPENDENCE BY COLONIAL  COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES (conclusion)
1. ‘The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is open. I  would like to remind you that there are still seven  speakers to come and that the discussion to which  the present session is to be devoted should have been  concluded this morning. 1 urge you therefore to be  brief; at this morning's rate, the General Committee  fears that, instead of coming to an end, as planned,  on 15 December, the session will have to be extended  by one or two days.
1.2 I call upon Mr. Pozniak, on behalf of the dele-  gation of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic.
2.1 Mr, POZNIAK (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic) (Translation [rom the Russian) :  Mr. President and fellow delegates, the Byelo-  russian delegation supports the draft resolution pre-  pared by the Working Party set up by the Conference.  We support it for the reason that to some extent it  reflects the tasks facing Unesco in the struggle against  colonialism and its after-effects,
2.2 As has beél rightly pointed out by previous  speakers, the adoption of the draft resolution on the  rd'e of Unesco in the struggle against ‘colonialism  corresponds to the spirit of the times and to the  aspirations of nations. While supporting it, we feel  bound to state that we were better satisfied "with the  draft resolution prepared by the Soviet Union dele-  gation before the Working Party was set up. l'am  referring to draft resolution 11 C/DR. 183,
2.3 Our delegation supports the Soviet Union draft  resolution in principle because it most fully reveals the  heart of the matter, and more clearly and accurately de-  fines the rôle of Unesco and its tasks in the struggle for  the immediate and complete liquidation of the shameful  colonlal system. Intheinterests of maintaining the  spirit of mutual understanding, however, our delegation  will vote in favour of the Working Party's draft resolution.
2.4 The Byelorussian delegation would like to mention  one or two shortcomings in the latter. First of all,  we consider that the formulation of the question of the  time-limits for liquidating colonialisn. is not altogether  definite, Instead of full and immediate liquidation of  colonialism in all its forms and manifestations, the  draft resolution speaks of the "speedy'! abolition of  colonialism; but the concept of the "speedy abolition"  of the colonial system canbe variously interpreted from  the standpoint of time-limits - several years or even  several decades, Hence the "speedy abolition" of  colonialism is not the same thing as immediate liqui-  dation, as was brought home to us once again when  we listened to the speech made here by the United  Kingdom representative.
2.5 The United Kingdom representative tried to  prove that the peoplés of many colonial countries are  not yet ready for self-government, and that time was  needed for them to mature and prepare themselves  for independent life.
2.6 These arguments are the colonialists’ old, old  story; a story designed tn delude the colonialper les  and preserve the existence of colonialism for a« long  and as fully as possible,
2.7 What the oppressed peoples in the colonies  want is not tutelage but immediate liberation from  colonialism, and our Organization cannot fail to take  this fact into account.
2.8 We must not blink the fact that more than one  hundred million people in the world are still living  under conditions incompatible with human dignity.  The oppressed peoples of the colonies are exposed  to ruthless exploitation and plunder, deprived of  elementary rights and freedoms, and condemned by  the colontalists to hunger and extinction. -It is pre-  cisely in the colonies that expectation of life is  lowest and the death rate highest. According to  official United Nations data, ône child in four in  Africa dies before it is one year old, Average age  expectancy in the United Kingdom's African colonies  is 34 for women and 52 for men. I could quote a  series of figures testifying to the extreme degree   XXVI PLENARY  of decline to which the "civilizing'' mission of the  colonialists has brought the colonial peoples.
2.9 The question of the immediate and complete  abolition of colonialism In all places and in all forms  acquires special acuity and urgency in present cir-  cumstances, Unless prompt measures are taken,  colonialism may result in extensive suffering and  sacrifice, and in extensive loss of life, It may lead  to armed conflicts and wars, end threaten the peace  and security of peoples not only in individual regions  but throughout the world.
2,10 Such being the case, Unesco should, we con-  sider, take the most energetic steps to support the  just demand for the complete and immediate liquida-  tion of colonialism, and for the immediate granting  of independence to all colonial countries and pedples,  We also consider that Unesco should actively utilize  all the resources at its disposal to condemn the  attempts of the imperialist powers to restore colonial  systems in countries which have recently embarked  on the road of independent development.
2.11 Unfortunately, Unesco has not taken its due  position on these questions, Is this not clear to us,  for e.:nple, from the General Conference" s decision  to recognize the credentials of persons who do not  represent the lawful government of the Republic of  the Congo? Instead of supporting the lawful govern-  ment headed by Patrice Lumumba - a government  confirmed in office by the Parliament of the Congolese  Republic - our Conference has in fact taken the side  of those who wish once again to shackle the Congolese  people in the chains of colonial slavery,
2,12 The events in the Congo and the tragedy of the  Congnlese people show that the imperialist forces,  and in particular the United States éf America, are  bending every affort to stifle the netional liberation  movement and restore colonialism in countries which  have just taken the road of individual development,
2.12 Another great weakness in the draft resolution  subyaitted by the Working Party, in our view, is that  such important issues as the condemnatio. of the  shameful colonial system and the attemptu by the  {mperialist States to preserve the colonial exploiia-  tion of peoples under new forms are unjustifiably  side- stepped,
2.14 Nothing is said in the draft resolution about  the necessity of condemning the so-called civilizing  mission of colonialism and the reactionary theories  of the colonialiats to the effect that the peoples of the  colonies are not yet ripe for independent develop-  ment - in other words, the self-same theories so  passionately put forward by the United Kingdom  repres atative from this rostrum today.
2.15 The liquidation of the terrible-after-effects  of colonialism and the development of education,  science and culture in the underdeveloped countries  will, of course, necessitate a tremendous material  outlay, The countries which have liberated them-  selves from colonialism lack the necessary means,  since their. economi¢ resources have becn pillaged  during the many years of colonialist rule. Yet the  draft resolution evades the question of the moral  duty of the imperialist powers to return to the  colonies, by way of compensation, even part of the  plunder which could be used for the development of  education, science and culture in those countries.
2.16 We feel that these shortcomings in the draft  MEETINGS
426  .  resolution, detract from Unesco's rôle and tasks in  the struggle against colonialism and its after-effects,
2,17 The liquidation of the rolten colonial system  is dictated by the entire course of world history, and  the final downfall of that system is only a question of time.
2,18 Guided by humanistic aims, Unesco should raise  its voice against colonialism and take all necessary  steps to help strengthen the intellectual solidarity of  mankind in the struggle for the complete and immediate  liquidation of this shameful manifestation of the past.
2,18 In concluding my speech, I should like to say,  esteemed delegates, that our sympathies and support  are always on the side of those who are fighting for  their liberation from the colonial yoke. Steadfastly  following Lenin's precept that every people should  have the right to self-determination end be entitled  to build its State in the manner it desires, the Byelo-  russian people, like all the peoples of the Soviet Union,  has always stood, and stands decisively, on the side  of the oppressed peoples fighting against colonial slavery
3. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H,E. Professor Ganovski, Head of the  delegation of Bulgaria,
4.1 Mr. GANOVSKI (Bulgaria) (Translation from  the Russian):  Mr, President and fellow delegates, the fact that  Unesco is considering the question of the liquidation  of colonialism is gratifying in itself, and has special  significance for Unesco. But unfortunately there is  still insufficient clarity on this question, as if the  sciences, political economy, sociology and so on had  never given it consideration,
4,2 Colonialism is not a figment of the imagination.  It is a scientific category, and cannot be interpreted  as anyone sees fit. It Is essential to reveal effectively  ite content, sense, significance and consequences.
4.3  Fromthe standpoint of science and history, the  question of colonialism arose with the development of  capitalism, Before capitalism,of course,no social and  economie structure succeeded in transforming itself  into a world system, mainly because the productive  forces had not developed to a sufficient extent, Capi-  \alism was the first tobecome a world system. Social-  fam, too, is transforming itself into a world system,  although these transformations are radically different  . from each other.
4.4 In the past, many capitalists regarded the  colonial system - and they still do - as practically  eternel, Inpoint of fact, it is not eternal at all; and,  like all social phenomena, has.its bezinning, its  growth and its end. - There can be no doubt that the  conditièns for the crisis of colonialism have become  manifest in the epoch of imperialism, that is to say,  in the epoch of the decline of capitalism, commencing  at the beginning of our century.
4.5 The Great October Socialist Revolution in fact  marked the beginning of the crisis of the colonial  system, sincu it gave a number of the nationalities  in Tsarist Russia the opportunity to cast off the yoke.  These nationalfiies took an active part in the struggle  against Tzarism and imperialisin, and together with  the rest of the workers of Russia achieved their  nationel liberation,"
4,6 The Second World War struck another blow  against the colonial system, for it gave more than  one thousand million colonial and semi-colonial   PLENARY MEETINGS  people the chance to achieve their Independence. At  the same time, a number of countries in eastern and  south eastern Europe and Asia liberated themselves  from capitalism and began to build socialism in their  own countries, Their achievements are an example  to the colonial peoples, It was after the Second World  War, in particular’, that the struggle of the workera  in capitalist countries against colonialism and  capitalism became acute,
4.7 All of this wéakened and continues to under-  mine the forces of imperialism, and limited thei:  international influence and their importance and rdle  in international politics,
4.8 On the other hand, the forces of socialism,  which had become a world system, are growing. The  socialist system 1s a main bulwark inthe strug;lé  for the final libération of the coli nized peoples.
4.9 Inour ligue, therefore - a time of transition  from capitaliem to sotialism - imperialism is  already unable to maintain and defend colonialism,  on the one hand, while colonialism, on the other, is  incompatible with the néw social-economic structure  - with socialism, Precisely in our time, therefore,  broad poss.bilities are being created for the complete  liberation of the colonial and semi-colonial peoples,  for the compléte liquidation of colonialism.
4.10 Social progress, humanitarian values, justice,  the freedom and independence of people - all of them  demand this, as does the preservation of peace.
4.11 Colonlalism is bound up with war. The First  World War was basically one for the redistribution  of colonial territories. The Second World War  followed the same line. Both history and reason  demand the liquidation of colonlalism, and hence  Unesco should help the colonial peoples to gain  their freedom. Colonialism has become a lamentable  and shameful phenomenon in our time.
4.32 The proposal for the complete liquidation of  colonialism put forward at the United Nations by the  Soviet Union delegation is of great historical signi-  ficance. It is timely, realistic and practicable, and  if not adopted today, it will surely be adopted  tomorrow.
4.13 We realize that our epoch of transition from  capitalism to socialism, the epoch of the complete  annihilation of colonialism, is unpleasing to certain  people, and especially to the colonialists and capi-  talists. But, gentlemen, we know from history that  the development of society has its own laws, andthey  are stronger than the likes or dislikes of this or that  person or class, .
4.14 We know from the past that when feudalism  was dying out, and when a new, more perfect,  capitalist system was being born, the feudalists  opposed the new system : they were enemies of  social progress and of histdrical development. Many  wars were fought in the old days to preserve feudalism,  but the feudalists were unable to stop the march of -  history, and history triumphed. Capitalism estab-  lished itself.
4,15 And now history is also triumphing with the  creation of a new, moi'e perfect, socialist system.  History demands the liquidation of colonialism,  There is nothing capricicus about this: it is an  historical law which any intelligent, progressive and  peace-loving individual can readily grasp andperceive.
4.16 Our Organization, as a body concerned with
427  Xxvu  questions of education, science and culture, should  correctly understand our epoch and the process of  historical growth. Unesco should direct its activities  in accordance with historical growth and the demands  of our time, It should be equal to the tasks before’  us, which should inélude that of the complete liqui-  detion of colonialism, ‘and it should contributé, by  all the means and employing all the possibilities at  its disposal, towards the discharge of this glorious  historical mission, but without, of course, duplicating  the work of the United Nations.
4.17 The development of education, science and  culture among the peoples who have freed themselves  from colonialism, as well as among those still living  under the colonial yoke, demande that colonialism be  speedily liquidated.
4,18 The complete liquidation of colonialism is not  only a political task: it is'algo one for science and  culture, and hence it is a task for us, for Unesco,  We have the gond fortune to consider this question  and define the correct approach to it, In the main,  the draft resolution presented by the Working Party  provides a correct approach, and the Bulgarian  delegation will support it, ‘It will enhance Unesco's  prestige and stimulate our work in the future,
4.19 In resolving these tasks, we naturally find  ourselves, and will continue to find ourselves, running  into difficulties and obstacles, espectally on the part  of the colonialists themselves. And the question is  not only one of fierce physical resistance on'their  part but also of the methods and forms of their  intellectual activity - of duplicity, deceit and the rest.
4.20 The colontalists are trying in every way to  conceal the horrors of colonialism and the suffering  which they have inflicted on mankind. Mr. President  and fellow delegates, the question of colonialism is  not a matter affecting the colonial countries only,  Colonialism Is a matter of concern for all mankind,  for during the First and Second World Wars people  the world over felt, experienced and lived through  the horrors of imperialism,
4.21 The colonialists try to present colonialism in  a favourable light, as did the United Kingdom repre-  sentative here, and to give the impression that they  benefited the colonial peoples. But even when you  take up education in your colonies, Messrs. colonialists,  you are acting in your own interests and not in those  of the colonial peoples.
4,22 The colonialists strive in every way to provide  evidence of the "civilizing rôle" they are playing in  the colonial countries; but they are unable to deceive  anyone, as we saw from the speeches of the representa-  tives of countries which have recently freed them-  selves from the colonial yoke i ‘during the discussion  on the reports of the Director-General, they gave a  first-rate description of the “cruelty of the colonialiste  and their system, whiéh destroyed the national culture  of the oppressed peoples and inhibited their economic,  political and cultural development, Colonialism is  truly a shamfu) feature of dur time,
4.23 The struggle for the eradication of colonialism  arouses the displeasure of certain colonialists, who  maintain that the colonial peoples are not yet équipped  to create their own State and to govern it, that they  are not equipped to develop their own science and  culture, that they are still primitive and need to  wait many years before they are ready for a free   XXvn  and independent life, In essence, these assertions  contain the reactionary ideas of racialism and  discrimination.
4,24 The Bulgarian delegation considers, gentlemen,  that all of us assembled here are convinced that this  approach to the colonized peoples is not only unjust  but offensive, humiliating and unworthy of our century  of science and progress, It cannot stand up to the  slightest criticism, and should be rejected, It  amounts, above all, to an exposure of the colonialists  themselves, who have kept these peoples for centuries  in a distressful and unbearable state of abasement,  oppression and deprivation of rights, in ignorance  and poverty, .
4.25 They are to blame if these peoples have not  achievéd that cultural level which they could have  reached under conditions of free life and develop-  msnt. The example of peoples who have liberated  themselves not only from colonialism but also from  capitalism clearly demonstrates that when people  are free and independent they can overcome all  difficulties. In a short period of time their existence  has changed, and their conditions of life have become  far better than when they were unde: the yoke of  colonialiem,
4.26 In no case are the colonialists capable of  coming to the help of the colonial peoples whether in  State constructionor in developing agriculture and  raising their cultural level, On the contrary, it has  been demonstrated that peoples who have wonfreedom  quickly overcome all difficulties, develop their  economy and reach a level of culture never before  attained by them, It follows, therefore, that the  historically wise course would be for those peoples  who still lack independence and national freedom to  receive them and set abou} the construction of their  own State and the development of their culture,
4.27 The difficulties they may meet with on the  way will be of far less account than those that are  met with under colonialism, Furthermore, the  broad front constituted by the free nations will give  them friendly assistance in overcoming those  difficulties. That 1e why it is not only wrong but  even criminal to defend colonial oppression in any  form, and to hinder the accession to freedom and  independence of the colonial peoples. It is essential,  as proposed in our draft resolution, to make every  effort to ensure the complete liquidation of colon-  ialism. ; ;
4.28 Proceeding from those objectives which are  the basis of its Constitution, as an international  organization, Unesco has accomplished a certain  amount in this sphere, but it needs to adopt even  more decisive measures to assist the peoples  struggling for their national liberation. It also needs  to come to the help of the newly independent peoples  in developing their education; science and culture  with all possible speed,
4.20 Atthe sametime,we should tura our attention  to the great danger overhanging thé countries which  have recently freed themselves from colonialism, arising  from the fact that the colonialists are trying their utmost  to disunite the peoples of those countries 80 as to pre-  serve their own influence in them and destroy their free-  dom and independence once again, The events inthe  Congo give a sufficiently clear illustration of this danger,  and reveal the intentions and aims of the colonialists.  ~  PLENARY MEETINGS  “
4,30 The colonialists think one thing, say another  and do a third, Unes¢; >hould not agsiet these in-  famous attempts by tf.» 7 slonlaligts in any form, or  be a cover for them: on the contrary, it should be  on the side of the colonial peoples, Our draft resolu-  tion is an important step forward in this connexton,  Only thus can our Organization worthily fulfil its tasks,  its social and historical duty,
4,31 The great philosopher Emmanuel Kant once  sald: "Do your social duty and we shall see what  kind of person you are", Unesco should demonstrate  that it is fulfilling its tasks and its social duty in a  worthy manner,
4.32 Our General Conference, gentlemen, is taking  place in Paris, This is not only Paris the beautiful,  Paris the historical, but also Paris with its demo-  cratic and revolutionary traditions, the city where  the great French revolutionary leaders raised the  slogan of liberty, equality and fraternity for the first  time in the history of mankind, They struggled for  the reconstruction of feudal France, and were stout  opponents of racialism and discrimination at a time  when even the very idea of colonialism was still  inexistent.
4.33 Is there any need for us to refer to the repre-  sentatives of education, science and culture in other  countries who have also fought for liberty, equality  and fraternity between peoples and who have also  been stout opponents of raclalism, discrimination,  and colonial barbarism? I hardly think so.
4.34 These tasks are today being implemented :  the achievement of fraternity, equality and liberty,  and Unesco plays a part in their implementation.  It wishes to go forward, it should contribute towards  their solution, failing which we shall mark time,  make no headway, but on the contrary turn back, as  some of the delegates here might wish.
4.35 The Director-General, in his concluding  speech, sald that Unesco would go forward. That  was spoken well and to the point.
4.36 Let our first step, or one of our first steps,  on the way forward be the adoption by Unesco of a  decision to promote the complete liquidation of  colonialism, This draft resolution, despite its  various shortcomings, has'the support of the  Bulgarian delegation,
5. The PRESIDENT (Translationfromthe French):  I call upon H.E. Dr. Beeby, Head of the  delegation of New Zealand.
6.1 Mr, BEEBY (New Zealand) :  Mr. President, fellow delegates, this session of  the General Conference has séen the membership of  Unesco dramatically increased by the entry into the  Organization of many néw independent and equal  members of the international community, So it is  perhaps natural that we should wish, in our own  particular field of competence, just as the General  Ausembly of the United Nations is now doing in the  more general political field, to consider what further  progress remains to be made in'the building of a free  and interdependent world society,
6.2 Since the political aspects of the question that  we are now discussing are being treated in New York,
1 shall not attempt to set out again the views of my  Government, but I should simply like to quote a few   PLENARY MEETINGS  words from the statement made ‘ten days ago in the  General Assembly by the leader; of the New Zealand  delegation to the United Natio. He said; "The  very.essence of this project 14 à belief in theindividual  worth and dignity of all hums; beings, a belief which  allows of no distinction on er unds of race or éolour  or natiofiality, and which canrint be fully vindicated  as long as one people exercisel, any form of control  over another. My delegation cai subscribe whole-  heartedly and without any reservation or qualification  to a reaffirmation of this belief. The people of New  Zealand are as eager as those of any “other country to  see a world of independent nations working together  for the common good of mankind, freed from the evils  of racial discrimination and from all forme of domin-  ation end oppression",
6.3 It is, however, micleading, Mr, President, to  equate these evils with the term "colonialism", and  it seems to my delegation thaf there is a tendency to  do this in paragraphs 1(a) and i(c) of the draft  resolution. As the distinguished leader of the United  Kingdom delegation said this morning, the word  "colonialism" can be used to cover a wide range of  very different things. There are situations that can  properly be termed colonial where the administering  powers, to their credit, are doing all they can to  help dependent peoples to achieve independence at  the earliest possible moment; and there are other  situations, not commonly referred to as colonial,  where whole peoples lack the opportunity to determine  their future. Our solicitude must surely extend to  all people, whether or not they are colonial in the  constitutional sense, whose actual state {8 one of  dependence and subordination, My delegation  therefore askc the General Conference to take note  of the expression in the operative paragraph 1(a)  “colonialism in all its forms and manifestations",
6.4 If there is one aspect in particular of this  draft resolution which might trouble my delegation,  it is the statement in the operative paragraph 1(a)  that, and I quote "Accession to freedom and independ-  ence must not be delayed on the false pretext that a  particular territory has not reached a sufficiently  high level in the fields of education, science and  culture", We well know - and recent events in one  area in Africa which are in all our minds have de-  monstrated it amply - that there are difficulties and  complexities in bringing a territory to full independ-  ence, I may suy that New Zealand has had recent  practical experience of what is involved in this  process, At this very moment in New York, we are  seeking the termination of our Trusteeship Agree-  ment for the Territory of Western Samoa. -1 happen  personally to have been involved over several years  in helping Western Samoa to develop the education  system it will need when it achieves full independence  at the end of 1961, and I know as an educationist that  this state of educational preparedness could not have  been reached overnight. Paragraph 1(a) then, must  be read in the light of these realities; in particular,  we would not wish anything to be said that might be  taken to weaken the obligation of any administering  power to do its utmost to prepare dependent people  adequately for independence at ‘the earliest possible  moment.
6.5 A second cause for concern in the draft resolu-  tion could arise from the way in which paragraph 1(c)
429  Xxvu  is framed, Unesco's task is to help overcome  economic, social and cultural underdevelopment and  flliteracy, whatever the cause, and whether or not  they be the after-effects of coloniallem, We hope  that paragraph 1(c) will not be interpreted as meaning -  that colonialism, in its nature, is always the source  or the only source of these various ills, Because if  we diagnose the cause of these ills too nari‘owly, we  might also apply our remedies too narrowly,
6.6 These, Mr. President, are matters of inter-  pretation, We could have hoped, had an opportunity  for more leisurely discussion existed, that a more  satisfactory form of drafting could have been found  in order to make explicit what fs, in our reading,  already implicit, In spite of the skill and devoted  efforts of the Working Party, that has not been  possible, But it will not prevent my delegation from  supporting the draft resolution as the nearest ex-  pression this Conference has been able to reach of  an ideal that should be inherent in all that Unesco  does, My only other regret is that I, and indeed  most of the speakers in this debate, have had to  devote so much time to these controversial aspects  of the draft resolution which are not really Unesco's  affair, that we have had no opportunity to speak on  paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 which are concerned with the  ways in which Unesco can actually contribute to the  welfare of dependent peoples,
6.7 1 hope that for the rest of this session, and for  all future sessions, we can devote our full energies  to a consideration of the practical measures that  Unesco, and Unesco alone, can take.
7. The PRESIDENT (Translationfromthe French):
1 call upon H.E, Dr, Sattler, Head of the delega-  tion of the Federal Republic of Germany.
8.1 Mr. SATTLER (Federal Republic of Germany):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, I want to be very’  very brief because thig ie the last time I shall speak at  this session of the Conference, for unfortunately I  have to leave tomorrow evening. But before speaking  on the draft resolution which is before us I would like  to suggest that in this beautiful hall a big map in wood  showing all the countries of the world which we have  represented here might improve the acoustics, That,  however, is just my opinion as an architect, |
8.2 Withregardtothe resolution, I amin avery strange  position. Germany isinthe position of having had nothing  to do with colonies for more than 40 years, sothat it ie  very easyfor usto voteinfayour. However the resolution  contains some words which we cannot completely. approve,  especially the section referred to by Dr, Beeby, para-  graph 1(a) which reads: "Colonialism in all its forms".  We, in Germany have sométhing special to say on this  question. We know that there are other forma of slavery  and of colonialism,evenin Europe, andthat there is a  possibility ,as happyned in our own history, of adicta-  torship arising which can enslave one's own country and  then, as Hitler did, occupy other countries and enslave  themtoo. These thinga happen, they have happened and  they do happen, so that I canunderatand the words  “colonialism in all ita forms" only inthe sense that they  - include all other kinds of oppressiontoo, And I believe  that Unesco's task is just that - to fight against all these  kinds of oppression, Itisinthis sense, Mr. President,  that we are prepared to vote in favour of this resolution.   XXVII  The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe French):  I call upon H,E, Mr. Wierblowski, Head of the  delegation of Poland,
10,1 Mr. WIERBLOWSKI (Poland) (Translation  from the Russian): ;  Mr, President and féllow delegates, I imagine we  have all read today's newspapers which are published  In Paris in French and English. I personally saw  something symbolic in the fact that the very day on  which all the newspapers had so much to say about  the bloody events in the colonies coincided with the  day of our discussion on the liquidation of colonlaliam.  The United Kingdom representative, the Head of the  United Kingdom delegation at our Conference, failed  to understand this striking plece of symbolism,’
10,2 1 fully appreciate that the United Kingdom,  one of the oldest colonial powers, is unwilling to vote  for the Working Party's resolution, This is under-  standable and natural : representatives of the United  Kingdom Government could hardly be expected to  vote in favour of it, for they would then be voting  againat themselves, But what surprised me was the  tone in which the Head of the United Kingdom delega-  tion spoke, He spoke very sharply, Why did the  United Kingdom representative, who usually speaks
80 moderately and correctly, think it necessary to  make such a sharply worded and provocative speech?  What made him, speaking on the colonial issue, con-
2ider it possible to address our General Conference  with such a disdainful air?
10.3 I have no comment to make about the way in  which he raised the question of actual terminology in  relation to colonies, Thie is an academic point, In  any case, both he and several other speakers tried  to create as much confusion as possible on this score.  Nothing is easier than to confuse the colonial question  - that of the economic exploitation of entire countries,  exploitation which has lasted for centuries - with  questions of censorship, Individual freedom and  human rights, 22 ©
10,4 I am in favour éf human rights and freedom  - freedom in the colénies and freedom in all coun-  tries. But I think that all that has to be done, in  order to create confusion, is to raise all these ques-  tions at the ôneé time, ‘ It ie not difficult to do so.
10.5 The points rafsed here by {tie United Kingdom  represéntative about Tibet led to confusion of this  kind. For about ohe thousand years Tibet has been  a fundamentally Chinese territory within the frame-  work of the Chinese State. If you are going to talk  about thé colonization of Tibet by China, I could,  following the same line, say that England colonized  Scotland and that Scotland is a colony of England. Or
1 might equally well say that Northern Ireland is a  colony of Great Britain,
10.6 ‘It would, of course, be stupid of me if I said  it in all seriousness, but the assertion that Tibet is  a colony of China is just as nonsensical, especially  as the United Kingdom representative should know  full well that China iteelf waa for many years a semi-  colony in which the English, precisely, played a  particular rôle, To say, therefore, that a semi-  colony possessed its own colony is even more absurd  than to say that Scotland is a colony of England or  that Northern Ireland is a colony of Great Britain.
10.7 ' Putting the question in this way only aggravates
430  PLENARY MEETINGS  relation and kindles the cold war, which we are all  trying to bring to an end. And I consider that a  speech about Tibet designed to cause confusion on a  question which is quite specific and clear and relates  to colonies is out of place at a serious gathering like  ours,
10.8 I must say that I was surprised not only by  the sharp tone of voice of the United Kingdom re-  presentative, but also by the poverty of his arguments,  What arguments were there, in fact? None at all,  apart from Tibet, censorship and human rights, ’ But  we are all agreed that human rights should be safe-  guarded, whether in the colonies, in the metropolitan  countries, or anywhere else,
10.9 If the Head cf the United Kingdom delegation  shares these views about the safeguarding of human  rights, ! should advise him to release those in the  colonies who are being held in prisons or are languish-  ing in concentration camps. I should propose to him  also to come out in favour of releasing all fighters  against colonialism in British, Portuguese and other  colonies. This would indeed provide an opportunity  for speaking here about censorship, human rights and  other very apt subjects which relate ag much to the  colonies as to the metropolitan countries, but which  have no relation to the matter under discussion.
10.10 Colonialism - as is clear to everyone - has  in all the countries concerned acted as a brake on the  development of science, education and culture over  many decades, And now they must catch up to the  European countries, To say nothing in Unesco about  colonialism, as some delegates here have suggested,  is to say nothing about the reasons for the backwardness  of vast areas of the globe inthe field of education, science  and culture, ;
10.11 It was urged during our discussion that we  should refrain from touching on political issues. But  our opponents do 86: they do so when the question  arises of the Congo, or of colonialism. I feel it is  worth recalling how three years ago, at the United  Nations Economic, and Social Council, these same  opponents of ours were against the creation of the  Economic Commission for Africa on the ground that  . it was first necessary to resolve the political issues.  Here we see that when it ‘sunita them, they say that  the political questions must be settled before turning  to other fields, such as economics; whereas at other  times they say the opposite: we must keep off  politics, this is not a political organization - it is  Unesco, and hence we must not mention colonialism,
10.12 I think that just as in the Nineteenth century  people of culture, science and education opposed the  slave trade and slavery in general - and Sir David  Eccles! country, Great Britain, headed the opposi-  tion - so in the Twentieth century all honest men and  women of sclence, culture and education must be  against colonialism. ;
10.13 I am quite sure that Englishmen will not be  lacking in the ranks of the opponents of colonialism,  just as they were present at the time of the fight  againat the slave trade. The Englishmen, too, will  be there,
10,14 I should like to add a few words about the  statement made here by the representative of the  Federal Republic of Germany, It irked me to hear  the Head of the West German delegation say that they  had been a colonized country, 1 understand his   PLERARY  meaning: hé meant that Hitler had colonized them.  But to me, as the representative of a couniry which  was really colonized by Hitler, it was unpleasant to  hear those who colonized us - or rather the State  which colonized us - now aay that at that time they  were a colony, That makes me say that we were at  that time the colony of a colony. ‘To my mind, it  was improper of the representative of the Federal  Republic of Germany to speak here in such a fashion.  There is a Russian proverb which says "No matter  whose cow may moo, yours should be silent",
10,15 How can those who colonized a whole series  of countries and exterminated millions of people say  that they were then a colonized country? I have  great respect for Mr, Sattler and all those Germans  who fought against Hitlerism. I am always ready to  shake them by the hand, and I regard them as honest  people. But I fail to understand how these same  people can describe Germany, which wiped out  millions of people, as a colonial country. There is  something wrong here, and it would have been better  not to broach that painful question.
10.16 And now à few words about thé term  "colonjallem", While pedple here have been indulging  in a sort of semantics, the captives of colonialism  are languishing in prison and countries are stillliving  under the yoke of colonialism. We cannot remain  silent in this situation,
10.17 Unesco should help in overcoming colonial  prejudices - raclal préjudices - among the former  colonialists. Little has been said here about racial  prejudices, but they do exist. And when people talk  about the immaturity of the colonial peoples, it is  essentially a racial theory.
10.18 We heardthis theory duringthe Second World  War, during the time of Hitlerism. We were told that the  Slav peoples were unfit for statehood, that we were an  inferior race andhence incapable of creating and having  our own State, that we were not ripe for it,and that the  German people must help us to reach maturity. Where  there is talk about the immaturity of the colonial peoples,  there we have racial prejudice, and it exists inthe  subconscious mind of certain colonialists,
10.19 It is improper to go on talking about the  immaturity of the colonial peoples or the necessity  of educating them. You, during the course of a  century or a century-and-a-half, showed yourselves  very poor educators, to be sure. You educated no-  body, and there are many examples to prove it, The  fact that we are now faced with extremely difficult prob -  lems, as inthe Congo, proves your inability to éducate.
10.20 A new danger now confronts us, Apart from  the attempts to preserve tertain colonies, another  venture is being attempted - that of neo-coloniallem,  which aims at continuing to exploit the colonies in  another form. Read the newspapers about what is  happening in Laos, where there has been interfer-  ence in internal affairs with a view to restoring  colonial exploitation. I could cite a number of  examples of how the colonfalists try to restore the  old colonialism in new guises, of how they grant  independence and simultaneously continue their  economic domination, of how the political influence  of the former colonialists is preserved in independent  countries,
10.21 In conclusion, I should like to say that I am  very pleased that the Working Party's resolution has  MEETINOS
431  X Xvi  been presented here, and we shall vote in favour of it,  We are gratifiedthat it was found possible to formulate  the resolution as a result of compromise, mutual  agreement and mutual negotiation, We shall vote in  favour of it although we are not entirely satisfied with  it, I regard this compromise, however, as a definitive  achievement on the part of our Conference,
11. The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe French):  I call on H,E, Mr, Lazo, Head of the Cuban delegation.
12.1 Mr. LAZO (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr, President, fellow delegates, very little time is  granted us to express our point of view. .In this debate,  judging by what has been said so far, there has not  been any real dircussion on the substance. However,  when differing opinions on the concept of colonialism  are aired, Cuba, for many and very obvious reasons,  cannot remain silent, Cuba was the last Latin  American country to cease, after a war lasting thirty  years, to be the political colony of a European power,  although it did not at the same time cease being a  colony under foreign domination from the economic  point of view.
12.2 In 1898, the Congress of the United States of  America stated that the people of Cuba were - and  rightly - free and independent. And vhat Cuba has  wanted since then is to see that declarations of that  kind should not be mere pieces of paper which dis-  integrate on coming into contact with reality.
12.3 When speaking about colonialism - as today  we ought to speak about it, i.e, against it - it is  natural to speak in favour of freedom,
12.4 And to speak of freedom is to speak, inter  alla, of education - a specific activity of Unesco,  Mr. Presidant and fellow delegates. Freedom is not  merely a political question, as has sometimes been  said here; it is far more than that, for it is a human  problem, the great universal concern of contemporary  man,
12.5 But what also happens is that this concept of  freedom is turned into an idea without content, an  abstraction used as a pretext to justify ignorance,  and even some of the major attacks on freedom, and  the conditions without which freedom ix merely a  propaganda slogan are forgotten.
12.6 In Latin America - whose voice hax certainly  been heard very little in this discussion - and in other  parts of the world, wa know, and we must stress this  here, that political freedom, the possession of a  national flag, coat of arms and anthem, the mainte-  nance of embassies and the sending of delegates to  international conferences such as this one, does not  in itself constitute true freedom for any nation what-  soever. This means that freedom is a complex con-  cept, and that one of its prior requisites is economic  independence and sufficient education. Many nations  are told that they are free, yet, overwhelmed by  illiteracy and poverty and dominated by wealthy  minorities, the only true freedom they have is the  freedom to die of hunger, unless they are guaranteed  their economic freedom and social justice, and  . unless their cultural level is raised and their technical  development promoted,
12,7 To say these things frankly, fearlessly and  sincerely is to educate and Cuba is saying them in the  appropriate place, namely Unesco. I have come here   XxVuI PLENARY  to say this and to defend these ideas, and I therefore  support the draft resolution of the, Working Party,  document 11 C/45 Annex, as the starting point for a  campaign against colonialism, an error and a crime  of the past, the condemnation of which, far from  separating, unites and will continue to unite all the  people of all nations of the world.
13,1 The PRESIDENT (Translationfromthe French):
1 should like to remind you that the list of speakers  is closed. 1am, however, making an exception in  respect of the Indian delegation which has asked for  the floor on the grounds that it was referred to by a  number of speakers this morning,
13.2 I call upon Mrs. Gandhi, on behalf of the  Indian delegation,
141 Mrs, GANDHI (India) :  Mr, President, distinguished delegates, ‘I did not  wish to take up the time of this Assembly, but since  several references have been made to my country, !  should like to say a few words, It is most kind of  you, Mr, President, to give me the opportunity of  doing so.
14.2 My delegation is a signatory to this draft  resolution and, naturally, we strongly commend ft  for your support. We are here as representatives  of a free country, but that freedom was the result  of a long and hard struggle. We are sitting alive  because hundreds and thousands of other Indians were  willing to give up their lives, I myself have spent  part of my life in prison and am alive today only  because a bullet which was aimed at me missed me  by a couple of inches and hit the girl who wao standing  immediately behind me. None of us were armed, nor  had we any intention of committing any kind of violence,  Our freedom is still too new for us to forget all that  our people have gone through.
14.3 I do not forget the thinga that were done for  us - the roads and the railways, the fine army, a  civil service loyal to our rulers, These expenses,  as well as expenses of the entire government of the  period, were borne by the Indian people, It is also  undeniable, as our Commissioner for Economic  Affairs said recently in New York, that the possession  of colonies has been of imniense material benefit to  the colonial powers, ‘Many historians have held that  the industrial revolution in the United Kingdom, and  subsequently in the continent of Europe, éould not  have been financed had it not been for the pillage of  Bengal. The part played by the inflow of gold from  South America is even better known. of gold from
14,4 But, Mr. President, I say all this without the  slightest feeling of bitterness or of recrimination. I  agree with the distinguished leader of the United  States delegation that we must look forward and not  backward. We find today that the colonial peoples  are unanimous in their deaire for fréedèm and that  only in conditions of freedom can educational and  other programmes be successful” Thère are certainly  difficulties in the handing over of power, especially  since so little has been done over the last centuries  to prepare the ground. But there is no other solution,  Indians wire also supposed to be incapable of ruling  themselves, but in thirteen years of indepondence we  have done more in education, communication and all  other fields than was done in nearly 200 years of  MEETINGS  colonial rule, Coloniallam is doomed and will dle,  If you resist this process, you will Invite violence,  bitterness and haired. If on the other hand, you meet  it with a helpful attitude, you will achieve understand-  ing and friendship. That is why our delegation put  its name to this draft resolution,
15.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  If there are no objections, I consider that, in con-  formity with the Working Party's recommendation,  the draft resolution contained in document n C/45  is adopted,
15,2 If you will allow me, I should like to join with  certain speakers in thanking the Chairman and mem-  bere of the Working Party for the work they have done  and for the mutual understanding which they have  shown in order to facilitate the work of the  Conference.
15.3 I call upon H,E. Mr. Lund, Head of the  Swedish delégation,
16.1 Mr, LUND (Sweden):  Mr, President, ! have asked for the floor to  declare our position in case a vote is taken on this  resolution, We would vote in favour of the proposed  resolution since the general tenor of this resolution  is fully in accord with our general policy. True,  this problem is now being discussed in the United  Nations and Sweden will state {ia opinion in the  discussion there. But since the item we have before  us today concerns Unesco's rôle in this field, and  since a draft resolution has been put before us, we  have had to take a stand here and now.
16.2 Some of the wording of the draft resolution  does not, of course, cover all the shades of meaning  which correspond to the Swedish position in this’  matter, and some important points have been left  out, as Sir David Eccles of the United Kingdom has  pointed out to us. But, as you will find in the report  attached to the draft resolution, the United Kingdom  and France were represented in the working party  which prepared this draft resolution; France felt  bound to abstain and the United Kingdom's delegate  stated that he had no instruction empowering him  either to approve or‘tiot to approve any draft resolu-  tion which the working party might prepare.
16.3 We are not {informed in the report what  constructive proposals both these delegates presented  in the Working Party foi the improvement of the draft  resolution. But I can very well imagine, Mr, Pre-  sident, that 1f some of the thoughts expressed here  by Sir David Eccles had been included, in the draft  resolution, it would have been still easier for the  Swedish delegation to support this resolution, which  we now do with some reservations.
17.1 Thé PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  There are still some delegates wanting to speak.  I should like to point out that the list of speakers was  closed this morning precisely in order to gain time,  Once the vote has been taken, why insist on speaking?  Here is the list of delegations which have asked for  the floor : Pakistan, Morocco, Ruanda-Urundi,  Canada, Japan and Denmark. 1 would draw your  attemiion to the fact that we are lizble to spend the  night here,
18,1 Mr, ELMANJRA (Morocco) !  Mr. President, I would like to thank you firat of  all for allowing us to speak on this question. We  regret not having been nble this morning to inscribe  ourselves on the Mat, but unfortunately our delega-  tion is quite reduced and we were not able to do so,  Cor intervention will be very brief.
18.2 The Moroccan delegation, as one of the co-  sponsors of the resolution which has been adopted  here, would lke to make a very brief statement on  this important {tem of our agenda, Our statement  will be brief because we feel that the process of  decolonization which has been the outstanding  feature of this century, is not a matter which can  be solved by words. It is a well-known historical’  fact that independence and liberty, unlike technical  assistance, is never granted but always taken. We  also find it very difficult to speak on the subject of  colonialism, particularly on a day like this, one  when all of the newspapers inform us of concrete  consequences of this cancer, 1 say "concrete",  because I do not know if there is something more  concrete than human lives, We shall not dwell  further on this point because any discussion of such  questions can never be more impressive than the  facts, the facts which you all know. Everyone hers  is aware of the evils of colonialism and the very idea  that it might be necessary to convince certain persons  about these evils at this turning point of history  geems to us to be an insult to the intelligence of  those we might want to convince. All we would like  to see is a closer co-ordination between the words  we have heard here and the deeds of those who have  pronounced them.
18.3 But here again, Mr, President, we are not  among those who believe that colonialism will or can  be abolished unilaterally, because colonialism, with  all its harmful effects, has had a positive aspect in  the evolution of peoples in that it has encouraged the  counter-movement and a reaction, It is in this very  reaction that resides the secret of the liberation  process. It would therefore be futile to think that  we shall be putting an end to colonialism by adopting  unanimously a resolution, We know that in this field  we are faced with Interests, and interests are never  fought with sentiments and resolutions. The import-  ance of the resolution just adopted can be however  found in the international recognition by Unesco, that  without freedom there can be no education, no science,  no culture and no international co-operation.
18,4 In conclusion, Mr, President, we are so  conscious and so aware of the ills of colonialism that  we find it very hard to express ourselves in words on  such a quéstion, We also have such a great respect  for humanity at large and such a faith in the inevitable  trends of history that it would hurt us and deméralize  us to think that, in this century of scientific progress,  in this atomic and interplanetary age, we still have to  come before countries ‘who have contributed so much  to this progress and make the plea that they recognize  the drastic and inhuman consequences of this nefarious  historical anomaly of the Twentieth century.
19. The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe French):  I now call upon Mr. MacEwan, delegate of Canada.
20.1 Mr. MacEWAN (Canada):  Mr. President, 1 wish to explain that the Canadian
433  MEETINGS xxvn  delegation would have abstained if à recorded voté  had been taken on this issue. Under the circum-  stances, we cannot associate ourselves jn the support  of resolution 11 C/45. It is not that we belleve  Unesco hue no role to play in aasisting peoples who  aspire to freedom, but the issue involyed in this  resolution, which concerns primarily a political  matter, ie now quite appropriately under discussion  in the United Nations General Assembly,
20.2 Pending the outcome of the discussions there,  my delegation has not been able to take a decision on  the matter here, nor to intervene in the debate.  There are indeed many points in the resolution with  which we would agree. We would not Wish here to  endorse nor would we wish to oppose broad statements  of political principle which at this very moment are  being formulated in New York, We further consider  that Unesco should not be concerned with matters  which are primarily political, and that a Unesco  resolution on this issue might well be an anticipation  of the General Assembly resolution yet to be adopted  and which would carry more authority, In essence  therefore, Mr. President, our reservations are  related to procedural considerations rather than to  the merits or otherwise of this resolution,
21. The PRESIDENT (Translationfromthe French):  I call upon H,E. Mr. Matsui, delegate of Japan,
22.1 Mr, MATSUI (Japan) (Translation from the  French) :  Mr. President, the Japanese delegation would  have voted for the resolution in document 11 C/45  had you put it to the vote. We fully understand the  peoples’ yearning for independence and, for this  reason, even though we were not members of the  Working Party, we have supported this resolution  whole-heartedly.
22.2 Certain members of the Working Party have  said that it implies the necessity of looking forward  rather than backwards. Mrs. Gandhi has just spoken  in such quiet and moving terms that I could add  nothing to what ghe has said, 1 would, however,  like to clarify Japan's position: although we are in  favour of this resolution, we in no way subscribe to  the denunciations voiced in a harsh and painful  fashion by certain delegates in this assembly.
23. The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe French):  I call upon H,E. Mrs. Saunte, Head of the Danish  delegation,
24, Mra, SAUNTE (Denmark) :  Mr. President, the Danish delegation is fully in  agreement with this resolution in so far as its  declared purpose is that colonialism, : in all its  forms and all its manifestations, must be speedily  abolished. But as we find that it should have been  possible to formulate a resolution that could be  accepted by all, delegations on this important matter,  and as we understand why some delegations could  not accept the wording presented to us in the draft  “resolution, and finally, as we find that this is because  the resolution concerns problems for the discussion  of which the Organization of the United Nations itself .
1s a better forum, we should have preferredto abstain  in this matter.   xXxvI  DISCUSSION ON INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND EXCHANGES  IN EDUCATION, SCIENCE ANO CULTURE (conclvsion)
25,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  We will now proceed to the next itern on the agenda,  item 17,7, that is to say the continuation of the  discussion on internstional relations and exchanges  in education, science and culture,
25.2 1 call upon the Belgian delegate, Mr, Florkin.
26.1 Mr. FLURKIN (Belgium) (Translation from  the French) :  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, in the  course of the two days so far devoted to the general  discussion with which we are conceyned this after-  noon, there has been little reference to one of the  panels forming the Unesco triptych, namely science,  It is in order to ensure that this vital aspect of our  Organization's activity ia not left to one side that I  am anxious to address you today as a delegate of  Belgium,
26.2 , Given the climate of this General Conference,  it seems almost incongruous to allude to the sclen-  tific field, After listening to the statement by the  distinguished Rumanian delégaté, H,E, Mr, Vasile  Dumitrescu, moreover, I am afraid that my position  as a scientist is inimical to my position as delegate  to this session of the General Conférence, My  distinguished colleague gave the impression that, in  drawing up Unesco's programme of work, it would  be as well to distrust the views of the éxperts, who  are afflicted with political shortsightedness, In the  same connexion, I should like to inform you that  there is, within'the international community of  scientists, a certain distrust of Unesco's activities  in the scientific field, Thie results from a specific  grievance to the effect that Unesco's scientific  activities are determined by politicians, whom  scientists suspect, not of shortsightedness, but of  scientific blindness | ' The very concept of Unesco's  scientific vocation has (and this merits our attention)  * been questioned on many occasions for some time  past and the opinion is often advanced that it would  be desirable to set up a new Specialized Agency - the  United Nations Scientific Organization or UNSO -  which would take in à number of alréady-éxisting  United Nations agencies and leave UNECO to devote  all its efforts to education and culturé in the world.
26.3 I mention these opinions not in order to re-  commend their promotion but simply because they  are symptomatic, We should also bear in mind what  the Secretariat proposed.to the Programme Com-  mission on Saturday : the application of a so-called  mathematical method whereby incréases in Unesco's  overall budget would, despite’ certain appearances,  automatically résult in a reduction of the budget for  the Department of Natural Sciences. i"
26.4 Again, there is not one scientist, ambng the  distinguished members of the Directorate-Gensral  of the Secrétariat. This is not surprising but, what  ie more significant, ig that a ‘majority of the members  of the Programme Commission, by accepting the  method {6 which I have just referred, have indicated  their desire to see that part of the programme which  relates to the Department of Natural Sciences reduced.  When we seéto what extent this Department's budget is  tobe cut, we shallbe ableto calculate - mathematically,  PLENARY MEETINGS  .  on this occasion, by a simple linear equation - in  what year the "S" of Unesco, which should already  be written as a small letter among the other capitals,  will finally’ disappear altogether,
26,6 Mr, President, in order to conform to the  wish of the Conference at the risk of making myself  conspicuous in the general atmosphere of this dis-  cussion, 1 should like to restrict my speech iocertain  clearly-defined aspects of international scientific co-  operation and, specifically, to those connected with  the standardization of documentation and a better  organization of the distribution of scientific informa-  tion,
26.6 A little historical background to the very  concept of international scientific co-operation would  not be out of place here, As you know, the idea of a  United Nations Organization for education and culture  developed among the allies at the end of 1942. The  Preparatory Conference, held in London in November
1945, decided to include science in a world-wide plan  for intellectual co- operation - a decision which added  to "Uneco" the "s" which made it Unesco. It is in  the writings of Father Mersenne, Descartes’ corre-  spondent, that we find the first historical definition  of the concept of scientific co-operation between  nations, along with a definition of the essential unity  of the sciences and the collective nature of scientific  works. "The sciences", wrote Father Mersenne,  “have sworn an inviolable soctety amongst them-  selves". And in his "Vérité des sciences" he asks  "how can we know about the variation of the magnetic  needle at different points of the globe unless we  assemble the results of observations made at these  different points ?"
238.7 In his clear introduction to this discussion,  Mr. Jean Thomas referred to the changes which the  very concept of international sélentific co-operation  has undergone in the course of Unesco's histôry.  During the first session of the General Conference,  this concept was defined in the form of six proposals:  to cover the world with a networ!: of science co-  operation offices, to support and increase the  scientific unions, and help them in their work, to  organize and opérate an international system of  scientific services, to support the United Nations  and its Specialized Agencles in their work, to keep  citizens of all countries informed of the international  implications of scientific discoveries and to create  new forms of international scientific co-operation  (observations, institutes, etc.).
26.8 It was on the basis of these directives that,  from 1946 to 1948, Unesco clearly emphasized co-  operation between scientists at the international  level. During the fifth session of the General Con-  ference at Florence in 1950, a concern with human  fraternity was ‘superimposed on the idea of co- opera-  tion between scientists and one of Unesco's main  tasks was defined as being "to promote the progress  and utilization of science for raankind", The seventh  seseion of the General Conference in Paris in 1952  saw a more precise formulation, by a group of re-  questing States, of the policy already outlined at  Florence, There was a pressing demand that the  concept of international co-operation among scientists  should be replaced by a new social contract whereby  nations belonging to the sphere of Western civilization  would share the benefits of modern science with those   PLENARY MEETINGS  nations which did not so far enjoy them. Iu his report  to the General Conference at its session in Paris in
1952, the then Director-General, Mr. Jatme Torres  Bodet, showed how intérnational co-operation among  sclentists was to form the basis on which Unesco  would establish its own work towards making the  modern world a better and happier place, It will be  remembered that his views, which were inspired by  the loftiest spirit of understanding and human gener-  osity, were somewhat harshly rejected by a majority  of the members of the General Conference, But  there are irresistible currents and two years later,  in 1954 at Montevideo, the General Conference  decided to give priority to direct services to Member  States,
26,9 The history of the Arid Lands Project enables  us to follow the development of the concept of sclen-  tific co-operation in ite purely political aspects and,  in this respect, the Project has not only been im-  portant in itself but, by virtue of its very structure,  represents a significant experiment in the sphere of  the intergovernmental aspects of international co-  operation - since the co-operation of Member States  can lead to the success of an undertaking of vital  importance to the human race,
26.10 We have before us the spectacle of the  methode thus defined being applied in a series of  other fields, as, for example, oceanography,  particularly as regarde knowledge of the Indian  Ocean, of which it has been said that it was less  well-known than the surface of the moon - a remark  to which the recent outstanding achievements of  Soviet sclence have lent added weight,
26.11 The doctrine of international scientific co-  operation has thus gradually implanted itself in  Unesco, taking the form of co-operation between  scientists, co-operation of Member States in scien-  tific surveys conducted on their territories and  participation in the scientific development of Member  States. All the main lines of this doctrine intersect  at the level of scientific exchanges and relations in  the world today - a field in which the problem of how  to communicate the results of scientific research  remains unsolved.
26.12 Paragraphs 967 to 992 of the réport of the  Director-General of Unesco to the United Nations  Economie and Social Council on international rela-  tions and exchanges in education, science and culture  provide an excellent picture ‘of the difficulties of  communicating the results of scientific research.  As rightly stated id paragraph 36 of document
11 C/17 "the time has come to initiate a much  larger international effort". Even if Unesco were  obliged to devote ten years! work to this question  and raise it to the level of a major project, the  success of such an admittedly difficult undertaking  would fertilize all the data resulting from activities  which our Organization has recognized as being in  line with ita own programme.
26.13 At the present time, the results of research  are still not communicated on an adéquate scale, in  keeping with the acceleration of scientific progress.  The number of scientific periodicals grows daily and  over half of the works published remain unknown to  a large number of specialists in the subjects con-  cerned, The beginner who ventures into the thick  forest of scientific publications is lost there and
435  xxvn  loses all sense of direction; the scientific literature  of whole countries is still absolutely unknown to  scientists in certain other countries, Sclentific  periodicals specializing in the same branch of  science use different terminology and different  methode of abbreviation to refer to the samy facts,  with the result that the reader is sometimes obliged  to undertake extensiye bibliographical research in  order to learn, for example, what chemical compound
18 being alluded to in a scientific paper,
26,14 It 1s absolutely essential that progress’  should be made in establishing generally accepted  scientific terminology, It seems impossible to  persuade the authors of scientific works to abandon  the use of current designations which they. have  adopted and to which they cling for reasons of con-  venlence or personal preference; but, on the other  hand, it does seem possible, through the authority  of the scientific unions or other similar organiza-  tions, to arrange that the authors of scientific  publications should, at the beginning of their work,  mention the term adopted in international scientific  terminology, even if they cling to their own habitual  forms of expression in the rest of the work, It would  be an illusion, however, to imagine that a code of  scientific terminology could be generally adopted,  even if officially accepted by the council of an inter-  national specialists' union, unless there were active  co-operation on the part of the editors of scientific  periodicals dealing with the same branch of activity.
26.15 My personal experienca.in this field leads  me to recommend a Method comprising éeveral ’  stages. The first step is to draw up, within a  specified time and for a particular field, certain  rules of terminology worked out by à small group  of experts, not merely qualified but znjoying a  standing based on important contributions to scien-  tific progress, The second stage would consist in  bringing that group of experts together with another  group, also small, and composed of editors of the  main periodicals published in the same scientific  field,
26.16 My own experience relates to the field of  biochemistry, which has aroused so much interest  during the present session of the Conference, and  leads to me to think that a joint discussion of the  problem by these two groups would result in feasible,  realistic and effective solutions, The proposals  finally adopted would then be edited, printed and  distributed by the appropriate scientific unions to  their national committees for consideration. The  observations made would, after the lapse of a few  years, serve as material for the work of another  committee of experts,
26,17 tis important that the groups to which I  have referred,f,e. the group of specialists and the  group of editors, should be very small, but each  group would maintain contact by correspondence  with a wider selection of specialists and editors of  periodicals respectively,
26.18 Yet even if aclentific literature were unified:  and rationalized and thereby made directly and easily  "accessible to each specialist, there would still  remain a critical problem, that of ensuring the  communication of the content of such literature to  members of the scientific community, Since it is  an established fact that no library has the financial   xxv  means to acquire the 50,000 scientific periodicals  published throughout the world and that no scientist  has the time to read the scientific literature devoted  to his own particular subject, two methods are  currently used to solve the problem, at least in  part, On the one hand, specialisis in each science  have periodicals which, with varying degrees of  accuracy and speed, ‘publish abstracts of some of  the original works dealing with their specialization;  the works listed are selected by editorial committees  of these journals, But a survey conducted by the  ICSU Abstracting Board of abstracting journals )  dealing with the biological sciences revealed that  these periodicals cover only a limited number, of  scientific publications - which in no way makes up  for the incompleteness of the information communi-  cated, The second method is verbal communication  and personal correspondence, This explains the  continuing success of the great international con-  gresses - a success contrary to all expectations:  it is at such congresses that scientists contributing  to progress in the same specialized field can meet  and, with'a minimum ‘loss of time, communicaté the  main results of their research to one another. After  the congress, ‘they continue to correspond and to  exchange offprints of thefr publications. Charles  Darwin's biographers teil us that he devoted roughly  half his time to scientific correspondence. I think  my colleagues will agree with me that the diificulties  involved in tackling such a mass of scientific litera-  ture oblige all of us nowadays to go in for correspond-  ence similar tô that of the famous author of "The  Origin of Species",
26.19 The situation at present therefore is as  follows : scientific journals which, from 1920 to
1940, ensured the cemmunication ot the results of  scientific research to their readers, have not been  able, since the last world war, to cope with the  enormous advances made in science, The method  applied by these journals has ‘collapsed, Scientists  are therefore obliged to resort to the historically  ‘older method of personal correspondence in order  to compensate for the gaps in the now inadequate  system of scientific abstracting ‘journals,
26.20 In my opinion, it would be very difficult to  ensure that such journals’ satisfy everyone, There  is a reading public - professors; students, young  research workers - who want a picture of the most  important developments (or thosé considered as the  most important) in a given field of scientific activity.  But the advanced research workers are seeking for  information that cannot be found in the great peri-  odicals which everyone reads and which are in every  laboratéry; and since it is the latter which are  covered by abstracting journals, a considerable  number ôf works - especially’ those written in lan-  guages, other than English; Russian, French or  German or published in periodicals with a limited  distribution - do not reach the readers to whom they  are, by their very nature; addressed.’
26,21. I put the following question to Professor  Bentley Class, one of the editors of "Biological ©  Abstracts": If Gregor Mendel, the pride and glory  of Czechoslovak science, were to publish his funda-  mental work today in the journal of the Naturfor-  schenden Verein in Brinn, would the content of that  work be brought to the attention of readers of
436  PLENARY MEKTINGS  "Biological Abstracts”? The reply was both honest  and in the negative.
26.22 There are only two fields of science In which  the problem 1 am concerned with has been solved :  medical sclence, through the "Index Medicus" and  zoology, thanks to the existence of the "Zoological  Record", Together with the abstracting journals,  these complete and most effectively compiled biblio-  graphical indexes enable the specialist to get to  know, if not the content, at least of the existence of  worke which interest him, .
26.23 Mr, President, I have dwelt too lengthily  perhaps on some of the difficulties inherent in the  solution of the fundamental problem of standardizing  scientific documentation and in the distribution of  gclentific data, But the problem is a vital one and  its solution essential if Unesco's work is to be carried  out in the scientific field. On behalf of the delegation  to which I have the honour to belong, I should like to  express the hope that our Organization will, in con-  junction with all the competent scientific organiza-  tions, address itself to the solution of this difficult  problem and devote to it the time and effort which  such a task, as urgent as it is essential, deserves,  because, as several speakers at this meeting heve  emphasized, exchanges and relations between peoples  are, in the scientific field as much ag in those of  education and culture, the very reason for Unesco's  existence.
27. The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe French):  Ladies and gentlemen, the task of presiding over the  debate under item 17.7 of the agenda was entrusted to  H.E. Mr, de Berredo Carneiro. I therefore ask him  to replace me now until the end of this exchange of  views, which he will sum up for us at the end of the  discussion,  (Mr. Akale Work Abte-Wold handed over the presi-  dency to Mr. de Berredo Carneiro.)
28,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  The discussion will continue. I thank the President  of the General Conference for having entrusted me  with the task of presiding over the remainder of this  discussion. The delegates remaining on the list of  speakers are those of Guinea, Cuba and Lebanon.
28.2 I call upon H,E, Mr, Moussa Sanguiana,  Head of the delegation of Guinea.
20.1 Mr. MOUSSA SANGUIANA (Guinea) (Transla-  tion from the French) :  Mr. Président, ladles and gentlemen, the part  played by Africa in the give and take process which  Unesco's action symbolizes has hitherto been  insignificant. This was not because our continent  took pleasure in its isolation, We must rid ‘ourselves  of the pseudo-sctentific myths which show Africa in  the past as a geographic entity withdrawn into itself  and thereby condemned to stagnation and decadence,
29.2 ‘No, Africa was never that Africa Portentosa,  that Africa, mother of monsters. At no point in its  history was our continent unaware of the world and  the rest of the universe. Anthropology and palae-  ontology bear witness to the’ relations, elements and  facts which entitle Africa to a place of honour in the  history of mankind. These proofs supplement others,   PLENARY  which are known to historians and geographers, and  perhaps still others again so far unknown either to you  or to us, inasinuch as they remain to be discovered.  Africa wag a crossroads of soclal, commercial and  cultural exchanges, instituted far back in the remote  past, partly on dccount of the long routes across the  Sahara which were used from the earliest days of  antiquity, and partly on account of the maz {time  explorations of the first European navigators in the  Fifteenth century - without going back as far as the  famous voyages of Hanno and Sataspes.
29.3 Unfortunately, the bold discoverers of new  worlds cared little about adding to the knowledge of  universal humanism and became colonizers with no  other thought than to serve the gelfish and greedy  interests of European countries.
29.4 If Africa, powerful and vigilant, has sought  to prevent an easy penetration of ito territory, it  is because it was consclous of sheltering the most  friendly people in the world, who regarded hospi-  tality as a sacred duty. The Ifrikya which welcomed  the Phoeniclan merchants seemed stubborn only to  those who wished to do violence to it, to flout it  spiritually or redice it to economic slavery. In the  Twentieth century and inthe yearsahead, Africa will  defend its social and cultural integrity whenever it  ig threatened. At the same time, however, we shall,  act as the world acts and at the same rate, since we  are also "flesh of the world's flesh".
29.5 In its past development, Africa certainly  encountered internal difficulties; but these, in their  diulectic context, were promises of a forward-looking  development and of progress rather than signs of the  structural decadence from which the continent suf-  fered and still suffers. Today the African phoenix  must rise again and is already rising. Unesco can  and should help to bring about the conditions needed  for this resurrection and rebirth,
29,6 As regards the possibilities of improving  international relations and exchanges in education,  science and culture, we emphasize, on behalf of the  delegation of Guinea, an aspect which in our view is  fundamental if we are to achieve the noble aims which  inspired the Director-General's proposals : we refer to  a passage inthe Economic and Social Council's resolu-  tion which reads as follows: "Considering that contacts  between peoples and knowledge of each other's ways of  life and thinking are a prerequisite for peace and theim-  provement of international co-operation... (the Eco-  nomic and Social Council) invites Unesco, in consultation  withthe United Nations and appropriate related Agencies,  to consider what measures of a practical and technical  nature wouldinparticular serve the ends indicated in  the survey, such as:. . . (b) adapting education to the  needs of international understanding".
29,7 We express our warmest approval both of the  intention expressed and of the determination which  will certainly inspire our Organization in carrying  out this programme.
29.8 As the representative of a formerly colonized  country, like all my fellow-Africans from other  regions, 1 attach great importance to the essential  problem of cultural decolonization. The reconversion  of mind and spirit which we desire concerns not so  much the colonial peoples as the former colonizers.  Colonization was greatly encouraged, if not justified,  by the elaboration of para-scientific theories  MEETINGS XXxvi  relating to en allegedly primitive mentality among  ceriain non-European human groups, The extent and  effects of this systematic lowering of certain races  in relation to others were so considerable that they  still detract from the sincerity of our relations,
29.9 The Guinean delegation. believes thut a world  campaign should be undertaken by Unesco on a specific  theme relevant Lo this burning question. ‘Such action,  moreover, would seem to form the necessary climax  to the survey oi raclalism and science; the outstand-  ing quality of which we hereby acknowledge.
29.10 We are convinced of the underlying unity of  the human spirit and we are likewise persuaded that  every people, at all levels of society, possesies an  innate awareness and knowledge of the great values  and ideas of mankind, The wisdom of the Dogon  people, which was conveyed to Marcel Griaule by  the old Ogumtemmell, led to the discovery of one  of the richest cosmogonies in existence, Africa  knows of others, but will reveal them only on con-  dition that the neophytes approach it with a generous  and unbiased mind, Even the greatest ethnologiats  have been unable to avoid the traps and hindrances of  their informants, because there are still prejudices  against them. For the benefit of science and culture  therefore a new attitude must be adopted in approach-~  ing Africa: only then will our continent reveal the  wealth of its little known civilizations and gradually  digclose its spiritual treasures, _
29,11 To Unesco's efforts to develop the training  of responsible African leaders, we shall add our  determination to undertake certain complicated and  difficult tasks ourselves.
29,12 This, for the African countries, is one of the  best ways of making an effective contribution to the  improvement of international relations in education,  science and culture,
30. The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe French):  I call upon H,E. Mr. Lazo, Head of the Cuban  delegation.
31.1 - Mr. LAZO (Cuba) (Translation from the  Spanish) :  Mr. President, fellow delegates, the short time’  at our disposal calls for restriction to the minimum  of the questions brought up for discussion during this  exceedingly useful exchange of views and experiences  in the sphere of cultural relations - a happy, choice of  subject for consideration by this General Conference  in plenary meeting.
31.2 In view of this unavoidable time facior, the  delegation of Cuba intends to refer very briefly to  only three fundamental questions, singled out from  among the extensive and complicated series of prob-  lems dealt with in the Report of the Director-General,
31.3 In the first plaéé, we should like to draw the  attention of the General Conference to the need for  Unesco to spare no effort to break down every kind  of barrier to the free circulation of all media pro-  moting education, science and culture throughout the  world. And here we would repeat our hope that words  will be matched by deeds.
31.4 Cuba strongly supports every endeavour to  unite all nations in this joint undertaking which is,  in fact, the main reason for Unesco's existence.  To avoid any regrettable confusion, 1 should liku
437   XXxvu PLENARY  to emphasize here that I am speaking of peoples and  not of governments, For the imagination boggles at  the thought of a ridiculous division of the world into  good and bad nations - such an idea hardly deserves  consideration. We are thinking only of peoples, all  fundamentally equal on the human plane and from the  point of view of their right to assistance in meeting  their respective needs,
31,5. Consequently, Cuba urges that our Organiza-  tion do its utmost, inthe most effective way possible, to  ensure that such antagonisms and prejudices as may  divide governments - but not, of course, their peoples -  are done away with for the sake of the lattur and that  all our projects ar: in fact implemented with a view  to establishing a real world community in the spheres  of education, science and culture. :
31,8 With regard to international cultural relations,  the exchange of persons serving the cauge of educa-  tion, science and culture is of primary importance -  and, in this connexion, Cuba recommends the im-  mediate implementation of a wider and more highly  developed programme of exchanges between all parts  of the world. But in formulating this proposal - which  amplifies and extends what Unesco is already carry-  ing out - I would point out most particularly that such  a programme should not in any way be regarded as  being restricted to the traditional exchange of experts  and officials ; - it should take the form of a permanent  world plan for the exchange of pergons capable of  making a real contribution to the achievement of  Unesco's fundamental aime, Member States should  be called upon to co-operate actively in this plan, not  confining themselves merely to removing every kind  of obstacle to such exchanges but also stimulating and  supporting them by every means in their power.
31,7 And now my delegation, in choosing only a few  subjects because of shortage of time, 1e taking this  opportunity to bring before the General Conference  the urgent and complicated problem of the interna-  tional circulation of books,  . 31.8 The statistics quoted by the Director-General  show that the problem could not be more urgent and,  if we face up to it, we shall see that it can be divided  into two parts: firstly, there is the need to step up  the campaign against illiteracy in a world in which
45% of the population can neither rend nor write and,  secondly, thir. is the need at the same time to raise  the cultural and technical level of those who have  already been taught to do so, Among other basic  means of doing this, the circulation of books must be  encouraged and we must plan and develop a world  policy in thie respect, freeing books from the two  dreadful and sometimes hidden barriere to their  circulation, namely that of the prejudices, antagonisms  and fears which divide States - although not their  ‘peoples - and that of economic interests,
31.9 Unesco should fight with all its legitimate  weapons of persuasion and good propaganda to ensure  that the exchange and circulation of books is not held  up by more or less impregnable barriers, represented  by the typical prejudices of customs and police officials,
31.10 In this connexion, and of course applying a  universal criterion of discretion and understanding  for the benefit of all men and all nations, the only  authorities should be men of goodwill working for  education, science and culture throughout the world.  As an example to illustrate this, I quote the case of  “
438  MEETINGS  the Spanish writer who, many yeara ago in Spain,  reminded a police officer claming to exert his authority  during a public discussion of the play which was being  perforined, that, in the theatre, the only legitimate  authority is the author.
31,11 With vegard to economic barriers, all efforts  should be concentrated in a campaign against the con-  version of books into luxury articles - which means  that there is a growing shortage of them - whereas they  ought to be, economically speaking, considered as  vital necessities,
31,12 With regard to the foregoing general remarks  which, if they are not to remain mere words, must be  transformed into action as soon as possible, my  delegation offers an outline of a positive project for  the circulation of books in Latin America, - It goes ~  without saying that every region of the world should  draw up and submit proposals of this kind and Cuba  has naturally concentrated on a project dealing with  Latin America, which is the region to which it belongs.
31,13 We recoramend that Unesco, in its publications  prograrame, should initiate studies with a view to  laying the foundations of a representative library  dealing with the life, character and thought of Latin  America; this library should include works on the  economic, social, historical, philosophical, literary  and other aspects of Latin American life, which show  how its problems are identified and solved and point  to its own particular style. By this we do not mean a  mere repetition or extension of what has already been  done by Unesco or other international agencies along  these lines, but the study and development of a project  based on new criteria which I shall now try to review  briefly.
31,14 In the first place, it should be a Latin  American library for all the peoples of the region,  and should at the same time be useful and necessary  to the groups of specialists in the fields it covers.
31.15 Starting from this point of view, the project  should be developed in succcosive stages, or con-  centric circlés as it were, beginning, of course, with  the authors who are most representative and whose  message has the greatest human appeal. It should  include what is most essentially Latin American in  all the nations of the region, in each'of its specific  areas, in every sphere and in every period, so that  it will thus become a library that can rightly be  deecribed as representative and well-balanced, and  not merely a repetition of come of the inadequate and  incomplete undertakings already attempted.
31.16 In this way, the peoples of Latin America  will get to know one another through all this repre-  sentative and policy-making material. However, the  nature of the project demands the close co-operation  of Uneaco and of all the Latin American Member  States; it require a series of careful selections and  eliminations by a central body and its planning must  be studied by economists, sociologists, philosophers,  thinkers, historians and men of letters who are pro-  perly representative of all the peoples of Latin  America in this task of intellectual co-operation;  beginning with the general foundations and going on to  critical studies, this project should end with the  editorial work and the dissemination of the library's  programme,
31,17 The fundamental aim of this project will be  that the peoples of Latin America - and not, aa   PLENARY  hitherto, their minorities - will be able to learn about  the thought, life, nature and vital problems of Latin  America by reeding full and reliable texts - and not  artificial anthologies - of its representative works;  these texts will have no unnecessary interpolations or  other additional matter, but only the essential inform-  ation, set out objectively and accurately, on the life  and works of the selected authors, and the main books  about them,
31,18 Mr, President, fellow delegates, my delega-  tionis confident that the proposed project which I have  outlined above will not failto arouse the interest of this  General Conference and appeal to ite sense of re-  sponsibility, The project, geared to the needs of the  world in which we live, will represent a new achieve-  ment in the already much discussed field of book  distribution, ‘
31.19 We leave it to you, Mr, President and  fellow delegates, to give this project your considera-  tion and study and to ensure that all the proposed  activities are carried out; this is what uba proffers,  in order that the work of Unesco may be inspired by  the dynamism of contemporary life and sincerely  aimed at meeting its unsatisfied demands,
32. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon the last speaker on the list, Mr. Sarrouf,  delegate of Lebanon.
33.1 Mr. SARROUF (Lebanon) ;  Mr, President, honourable delegates, in thé first  place I wish to express my personal thanks to the  President for gractouely arranging this extra meeting,  so that some of us who were unable to participate in  this important discuesion on Wednesday and Thursday  of last week have been able to do so this evening,
33,2 My desire to participate in this discussion is  twofold. First, a personal one, I have spent the  better half of my life as an editor and publisher of  magazines, in Cairo, which were designed to build a  bridge between modern thought and Arab leadership ;  later, as an officer of the American University in  Beirut, where I am in full charge of university re-  lationa, Therefore, the subject of international  relations and exchanges in the field of education,  science and culture are of the greatest importance  to me, personally, However, I am a newcomer lo  Unesco and this is the first General Conference which  I have had the privilege to attend. Only ten months  ago I was appointed a member of the Lebanese  National Commission for Unesco, but in the mean-  time I have "boned up", as it were, on various  documents which have to do with Unesco's work - I  refer particularly to the document on the appraisal of  Unesco programmes in the first ten yéars of its  operation, I have been impressed by it as I have  never been impressed before with the work of any  international organization working in the important  fields of education, science and culture.
33.3 The second reason I have taken the rostrum  this afternoon is to speak as a Lebanese. Lebanon  is a very small country but it yields its place to none,  proportionately speaking, in the field of activities  with which Unesco is concerned and in which it is  interested. Early in this Conference a member of  a leading delegation from the Middle East told me,  "Lebanon is for us a Unesco". I considered that to
439  MEETINGS XXxvi  be compared with Unesco is the greatest compliment  that I have received for my country, For Unesco to  be compared with Lebanon may, or may not be, a  compliment, but I am sure that the reference to  Unesco in this connexion indicates that Unesco has  become a part of the thinking of people who are con-  cerned with international relations and exchange in  the fields of education, science and culture, The  reason for my country's deep intereat in those  activities and its abiding faith in their usefulness is  not a matter of passing concern. It really derives  from ite geographical position, from {ts history,  from the ambition of its people, from the hundreds  of thousands of Lebanese immigrants who, in all the  continents of the world, established points of contact  between the mother country and the various peoples  and cultures of the world,
33,4 Beirut, the capital of my country, is a great  cultural centre. We have now thrée established  universities and a budding one “which only’ started  work two months ago, Obviously I cannot take your  precious time to tell you all about these universities,  but I would like to select just a few incidents which  will illustrate the work of those universities in the  fields of international relations and exchanges, in  education, science and culture, I happen to belong  to a university where we have 4,000 students who  come from 63 different nations, who belong to 25  different religious groups. We have no bar of  nationality, creed, colour or sex, Several years  ago the famous American Nobel Prize physicist,  Arthur Compton, was going around the world  lecturing on the international responaibilities of  science, When he passed through Beirut we asked  him to address our student body; as we left the  meeting place with his companion, a Swiss scholar,  I was telling thom these basic facts concerning the  international composition of our student body and of  our faculty, The Swiss asked me, "What do you do  about tolerance"? When I replied that 1 did not  understand his question he asked Low we taught  tolerance. Sir, I said we do not teach tolerance, we  just live tolerantly.
33.5 _ The universities, private groups and public  authorities ell bring to Lebanon every year a number  of congresses, either regional or international,  where scholars meet together with tlieir counterparts  from various parto of the world to discuss history or  medicine, or pharmacy, or the development of the  Arab mind. A group of citizens has been bringing to  Lebanon in the last four years, to the citadel of  Baalbek, theatre companies from England who play  Shakespeare, theatre compar/5s from France who  play Racine or Molière or others of the classics,  symphony orchestras and ‘other musical companies  from Germany, Italy, France, the United States and  elsewhere. These few examples 1 have selected will,  I hope, readily demonstrate why Lebanon is deeply  interested and has an abiding faith in international  relations and exchanges in the fields of education,  science and culture.
33,6 The basic subject of thia general discussion  is document E/3352, the Report of the Director-  - General of Unesco to the Economic and Social Council  on international exchange in fields of education,  sclence and culture, It is a study of broad sweep,  panoramic but not superficial, Those who have   XXVII  worked oh it have given it of their best, and yet, if I  may be permitted, I would like to make the observa-  tion that after going through this massive and  masterly (orne, one would have liked to see a few  directing principles or ideas given which could be  recommended to the world, in the same way as was  done in a previous report prepared hy Unesco on  science, the Rapport Auger,
33,7 In the few moments left al my disposal I would  like to submit to you three brief suggestions of which  the Director-General may see fit to take cognizance,
33.8 Inthe first place, since Unesco is an organ-  ized, fully forged and tempered instrument for the  promotion of education, science and culture on a  universal scale, it would seem to us in Lebanon, and  also to me personally, that one of the guiding prin-  ciples which may be recommended to the world is  the promotion and encouragement of the learning of  living languages. Living languages are the means of  communication between peoples. We in Lebanon have  something of a reputation for our ability to communi-  cate, because in addition to our mothen tongue,  Arabic, many of us know English or French and  perhaps other languages. This is because we have  always encouraged and we will continue to encourage  the learning of those languages in both the official and  private school systems, on the levels of elementary,  secondary and university education. According to  an Arabic proverb, every additional language a man  learns is a new man added to his personality. True,  it may be used as an instrument for international  business, but to me a language is primarily a golden  key which opens the storehouse of the mind and the  spirit of a people as they are written into itslitera-  ture. Translations, of course, are important and  Unesco is doing a great deal to promote translations  of the classics; in fact, in Beirut the first Unesco  committee was set up for the translation of clarsics  from Arabic to English and French, and from French  and English to Arabic, But it seems to me that,  beyond translation, there is a great need for learn-  - ing the living languages of the world, and I submit,  Mr. President, that this chould receive first priority  in Unesco's recommendations to its Member States,
33.9 The second suggestion I would like to make  concerns a certain imbalance which appears to exist  - both in material goods and in intellectual goods -  between donors and recipients. In using the word  "recipients" I do not wish to imply inferiority;  because I feel deeply that in the field of free ex-  change there ie no superiority : every donor receives  and every recipient gives. Therefore, In order to  facilitate and to expedite exchange between people,  between donors who give a great deal and recipients  who give less, we should encourage, set up; help  those centres which can expedite thé process of  international exchange.
33.10 ‘And finally, Mr. President; in other bodies  of this Organization we have been discussing a num-  ber of subjects concerning education, science and  culture. . We have dwelt for more than one day on  the Major Project of Orient and Occident whose  purpose is to develop and promote the mutual  appreciation of cultural values of Orient and  Occident alike.: I think this is very important, but  it seems to me that it does not come to grips with  the realities of the world in which we live, The  PLENARY
440  MEETINGS  world in which we live is deeply Influenced by science,  the development of science and the technology which  is based on science, If we are to build up a body of  citizens of the world, I think we should make a bold  attempt not merely to promote the mutual apprecia-  tion of cultural values, but also to integrate in the  person, in the mind, in the spirit of the university  student and the university teacher the values and the  spirit of modern science together with the great  moral values of thé old cultures which have come  down to us across the ages.
33.11 I would like to suggest that the International  Association of Universities might undertake a study  of this integration of the values of science with  cultural values, Perhaps the Director-General may  see fit to call together at some future date, perhaps  after the next General Conference, a colloquium or  a seminar to study the methods of pursuing this  important objective, so that we could build in the  minds of people, in their spirits, the ability to do  - which is drawn from science - with the ability to  do right, which is drawn from the moral values of  all cultures. Throughout this Conference, Sir,  there has been one sentence which has been more  quoted than any other from the Constitution of this  Organization: "It is in the minds of men that the  defences of peace must be constructed". It seems  to me that in this way we can build peace in the  minds of men.
34.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  May I remind you that 36 delegates have taken  part in this discussion, to which a valuable contribu-  tion was also made by the representative of the non-  governmental organizations - 36 delegates repre-  senting every region, and every viewpoint, political  as well as geographical and ideological, of our  Organization - 17 European delegates, including
9 from Eastern Europe and the Balkans and 8 from  Western and Southern Europe; 2 North American  delegates, 5 from Latin America, 5 from Asia,
2 irom the Arab States, 4 from Tropical Africa and  one from Australia. A great diversity of opinion  has emerged in connéxion with political, social and  administrative questions. And I believe that this is  just the realistic picture that we wanted. Everything  can be said in Unesco - that is the first lesson to be  drawn from this discussion - 6n condition that it is  said in the spirit of Unesco. Each delegate has  spoken here with complete freedom and yet at no -  time has the high level of the debate been lowered.  The fields in which an identity of views was apparent  were no less extensive and no less important than those  which revealed a divergency of opinion. But what is  especially encouraging is that this identity of views  was evident whenever it was a question of activities  relating to Unesco's own field.
34,2 Several points which were brought out  particularly by & number of delegations can be  stressed, but it would be impossible at this time  to attempt, however briefly, to give a true summing  up, 'd general idea of so wide-ranging a discussion  on 80 vast a theme,
24.3 First of all, the delegations were unanimous  in expressing their satisfaction that the Diréctor-  General had provided us with go fascinating and so  fine a subject and warmly congratulated him on   PLENARY  taking this Initiative which has, for a few hours,  enabled us to breathe an atmosphere of pure culture,  declaring a truce to all disputes and without regard  to any secondary question of procèdure, It was a  moment of relaxation amidst the many difficulties  which sometinies beset us, All the speakers were  also unanimous in pointing out the importance of the  subject and the increasingly large place which it  will occupy in Unesco's future programmes,
34.4 The necessity of promoting a scientific study  of cultural relations was everywhere felt and stressed,  The question of true reciprocity in educational, scien-  tific and cultural exchanges, in mutual respect be-  tween nations, occupied delegates' attention from  beginning to end of the discussion,
34.5 Co-ordination between programmes involving  bilateral co-operation and those envolving multilateral  co-operation, In both the national and international  context, likewise occupied a prime place in the  speakers’ considerations,
34.6 Parlicular importance was constantly attached  to problems of language, their diversity, the need to  develop their teaching and to perfect and increase  translation techniques as much as possible in order  to overcome those barriers which date from the  beginning of histéry, with the thousands of languages  and dialects which the human community still uses.
34.7 Considerable altention was paid to the prob-  lem of developing national cultures, of preserving  the cultural heritage of each peopie, linked to the  necessity of establishing, at the same time, the  closest possible relations between these cultures.  A somewhat darker element was occasionally intro-  duced into the picture in connexion with the problem  of economic development - the essential pre-con-  dition for the full participation of different countries  in international exchanges on an equal footing - the  need for this development, not only for the benefit  of those concerned but also to help establish inter-  national understanding in a climate of confidence and  true brotherhood.
34.8 Technical assistance and expert missions were  discuésed atlength and particular emphasis was laidon  the need for co-operation betweèn social scientists and  the Unesco services concerned with these miselons and  the dispatch of experis'sothat, when carrying out their  tasks in a cultural région whichis often unfamiliar to  them, the experts will not only feel at home but will bring  to their work that human warmth, that sort of  evangelical spirit which missions , even of technical  experts, should never lose. ’
34.9 Exchanges of persons and the importance of  the human element in all international relations were  likewise particularly stressed on several occasions.
34.10 In all this, the importance of information  was not overlooked. But while all the speakérs ex-  pressed the htpe that it would develop and spread  without let or hindrance, certain fears were ex-  pressed, too, concerning possible unduly violent  clashes if a culture were presented without some  sort of preliminary preparation to make it accessible,
34.11 It was argued that Unesco could play ah  admirable, a unique part in this realm of interna-  tional relations and exchanges by serving as a bridge  between éultures unacquainted with each other and  between political regions which are all too often  separated by prejudices and hostilities, for it is  MEETINGS
441  XXvu  through co-operation in the educational, scientific  and cultural fields that we can hope to remove the  obstacles and misunderstandings,
34 12 A few moments ago, you heard the import-  ance of exchanges in the sclentific field being stressed  by an outstandingly qualified speaker, who noted the  difficulties and the solutions to be adopted. We were  likewise called upon to consider the special problem  of books as a major instrument of international ex-  changes, a fundamental element in mutual under-  standing, and the problem of the free circulation of  books which is still hindered by too many obstacles,  too many taxes and too much red tape.
34.13 Gentlemen, I have not attempted to sum up  the debate, but rather to remind you of certain  particularly significant facts. What struck me, what  moved me in this admirable discussion was that all  Unesco's languages were used, that words conveying  every line of thought were uttered without provoking  clashes; this miracle was due to the fact that,  underneath these languages and these words, you  have all spoken the language of Unesco,
34.14 I call upon the Director-General,
35.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL (Translation  from the French):  Mr. President, instead of speaking, I might  simply have added my applause, to that of the rest  of the assembly, to thank you for your remarkable  synthesis - I think this is the word which describes  your statement, But I wish to thank you personally,  because it enables us all - and especially the  Director-General and the members of the Secretariat -  to realize, as you yourself observed, that this initiative  has been fruitful, 1believe that the Director-General  and the Secretariat will find in all the ideas which  have been expressed, in all the richness and variety of  the aspects of the problem which have been studied  during this discussion, an invaluable light to guide  their line of action and enable them to define tke prin-  . ciples which have been requested of them, for the  benefit of the whole United Nations family and, in  particular, of the Economic and Social Council which  made the request.
35.2 As to our Organization, it will benefit greatly  by this éxchange of views, even though the conclusions  have not heen drawn up in document form. Although
1 was not always ablé to be present myself, and although  we have no text embodying final decisions, nothing  will be lèst of what has been said and the records of  these mestings which you have so admirably con-  ducted and summed up will not only be a working  instrumet.t for us but the hasis, the starting point  of future ¢ ction.
35.3 Such are the remarks I wished to mike and  to this, toirether with my gratitude fo 'all those who  have worked from the outset on the preparation of  this report and who were thanked at the beginning of  this discussion, I would add my thanks to all of you,  ladies and gentlemen, who accepted my invitation  and that of the Executive Board and made such  fruitful contributions to this discussion,   XXVu  ADDRESSES BY THE HEADS OF THE DELEGATIONS OF THE  MALAGASY REPUBLIC AND UPPER YOLTA
36.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe French):  I would remind you that the agenda of this session  includes two addrekges by the Heads of the delegations  of the Malagasy Republic and the Republic of Upper  Volta respectively,
36.2 I call upon H, É. Mr, Ratsimamanga, Head of  the delegation of the Malagasy Republic,
37.1 Mr. RATSIMAMANGA (Malagasy Republic)  (Translation from the French) :  The eleventh session is drawing to a close and  yet it seems to me that only a few days have passed  since I conveyed to the Conference the thanks of  Madagascar which had juat acquired the standing  - 60 significant for those who belleve fn spiritual  values - of a Unesco member, Today, I must thank  you for the confidence which you have shown through-  out this session in the newly-admitted Africans and,  particularly, in myself as Head of the Malagasy  delegation.
37.2 In doing so, I cannot forbear to remark with  emotion and gratitude that for the firat time an  African, the Head of the Ethiopian delegation, has  been elected President of the General Conference and  that, likewise for the first time, an African from  Tropical Africa has been welcomed as a member of  the Executive Board, |
37.3 However proud I may be of this, it is not as  an African that I thank you, ladies and gentlemen,  but simply as a man. For its seems to me that in  order to represent our ‘countries, it is our capacity  as human beings which dominates ‘all other capacities,  on condition that such capacity ja based on the fervent  fraternity of those who believe in thé pre-eminence  of knowledge, in tlie serenity which it bestows on  our relationships and in the patience with which we  should protect both. And why should we enter your  company if we do not believe in this fraternity?  , 91.4 Its therefore on behaïf of that fraternity  that I would like to discuss wy. own distant island  and that continent off whose coast it lies and which  the geographers present as vast and hostile to every  human approach, But what a monumental error it  would be not to realize that, despite appearances,  both island and continent are finished examples of  the meeting of human minds. It might be said of  Madagascar that it has never been able to forget  its ancient situation and that, as a fragment torn  from the continent ‘of Gondwana and borne towards  Africa after, the convulsions of the primal age, it  must remember throughout its whole existence those  lands froïa which it was wrested so long ago - the  distant lands. hordering on Polynesia, Melanesia  or Malaya and the nearer land of India. It may be,  moreoyer, th rat these were the first countries to be  inhabited by black races,
37.5 But of unchanging ‘Africa it can be said that  its thought has been moulded by the very diversity  of its successive {nhabitanta, Over a negro basis  which is now accepted as much wider than had  hitherto been thought, flowed important waves, two  waves of Arabs, one of Bantus, a constant coming  and going of Hamitic peoples with the Peul pastor-  aliate; Africa was invaded in the North by Latin or
442  PLENARY MEETINGS  Nordic peoples and there are even those who refer to  the Caucasian race in Hoggar, not to mention the  European contribution, recent in history but of con-  alderable importance as an influence, This mixture  of peuples has lefi a synthesis which enables Africa  to assert its personality as a continental peychological  entity, just as peoples of a heterogeneous composition  evolved as nations - I am thinking of Brazil, Viet-Nam,  India itself and, riearer to us of several European  peoples which have rightly been described as racial  mosaics. Even the Pygmies - who are still strangers  to our assemblies but who will doubtless join us one  day within the nations to which they belong - can  boast of having contributed to the race and to art in  several regions of Equatorial Africa, Thus, as with  our own Malagasy life which is both'a combination of  Aslan, Malayo-Polynesian, Hindu, Arab and Bantu  traditions, as shown by our language and certain of  our institutions, and a modern synthesis of cultures  and opinions so Africa as a whole has already given  us an example of what can be achieved by peoples  with basic spiritual values in common,
37.6 But tolerance - I emphasize this word - must  be the keynote of their association. Even if this has  not always been the case, ‘my purpose today is not to  recall difficult times. It seems to me of greater  interest to stress the need to define the personality  of those countries which are newcomers to your  assembly, after first attempting to show how they  form a whole, From Unesco's point of view, the  task of uniting - or rather reuniting - which is  inscribed on {ts pediment is not the only one and  to it must be added that of preservation - a tacit  sort of preservation but equally important. For in  this temple more than elsewhere, each national or  human pergonality becomes a precious and intangible  contribution both in its expression and its inspiration.
37.7 Unesco, moreover, reminds us of this all the  time, I confess that I could not enter the hall without  being moved by the splendid picture of the Temple  of Philae whereby you no doubt sought to assert both  the everlasting quality of Africa and the n. ved for it  to be everlasting. Philae is Africa, the unknown  land, the "terra ignota" of the ancient maps, the  land which the inexorable rising tide of techniques,  indusiry, economy, commerce and even the exclusive  use of a few modern languages surrounded and  threatened with submerajon, But the Nubian boats  always succeeded in reaching the summit of the  mastabas ... each deyout traveller touched what  was once a granite sky and every summer, with the  fall of the Nile, the temple re-emerged in all its  majesty, Thus hope remained - that hope which is  the key word of Africa, of that continent which,  throughout the centuries, has lived more on hope  than on wealth, to the point where every thought  which was ‘expressed seemed to be transformed  into an appeal,
37.8 Let us make no mistake - it is no mere chance  that orthodox Islam was transformed on its soil into  that doctrine of intense love which is Sufism, that  this restored on the banks of the Niger the myth of a  sacrificed Osiris offering salvation, that in the  harshest conditions of exile it has sung the expecta-  tions of the Negro Spirituals, that, still more recently,  it expressed Christianity with the fervour of the  - Kimbangists or the Matsuanists - no, none ofthis is   PLENARY  mere chançe, but rather a proof of the birth of a  collective spiritual entity which constitutes a precious  contribution for Unesco.
37,0 Africa represents undying hope, but some of  the values which undoubtedly sustain it are threatened  by the very abruptness with which it has hadto confront  the modern world, 1 am referring not only to what is  known as the national heritage and which, consisting  above all of cultural values, is certainly entitledtores-  pect and protection, 1 also have in mind everything of an  original kind which Africa still possesses, It is not  without significance that certain peoples can still  describe their forests as primeval or that in some  regions they come upon prehistoric animals, Apart  from the capital of knowledge preserved in this way,  these reserves are surely a proof - and the most  tangible proof - of the continuity of life and of man's  many reasons for hoping. And as such, are they not  a concern of Unesco? Let us hope that, through our  assembly, thanks to its wisdom and plans and also to  the progressive spirit and tactfulness of the education  which it will help to provide, Africa will retain every-  thing which constitutes the living sources of its ardour  and spontaneity !
37.10 Out of that ardour and spontaneity which  Madagascar has tempered with gentleness, there  seems to have arisen for Africa the promise of that  salvation which it expects from you in the form of  such free and equal communication with the modern  world as some of us have already received, in several  cases thanks to England or France. Africa is a land  undergoing too intense a development, in respect of  which the term "Pan", which is sometimes coupled  with a different-shade of meaning, as in the word  "Panafricanism'", seems to provoke cessation of  growth, since the sum of its aims and substance is  unobtainable and the people for whom ît is intended  are non-existent, That is why the General Confer-  ence of Unesco and those entrusted with Africa's  intellectual future should not consider it in terms  of one or more political parties, or one or more  countries, but as a whole, from every angle and  independently of any political factors.
37.11 For it is here that we have the third panel  of the Unesco triptych: “unite, preserve, help".  And in this field, help does not mean creating or  even reviving, since no man or nation can lose his  or its soul and, however remote this soul may be  from the outside world, it invariably finds its own  means of expression,
37.12 A harsh dilemma confronts every young  nation: whether to respect every archaism, per-  petuate every expression, even though it sometimes  owes its value only to ita isolation - and thereby preserve  the disillusioned pride and the haughty elegance of those  great but tattered lords immortalized by Cervantes,  possibly because he was afflicted by their vulnerability;  or to gotothe other extreme and make 2 clean sweep of  the past, determine to be "Inthe swim" and thereby  suffer the mysery of not being first and of becoming  narrow-minded "petit bourgeois"; envious only of  material wealth, bitter about their own position,  fretting over an expected legacy, such people as were  so accurately and disturbingly portrayed here during the  African evening in Mrs. Hasburry's play. Let us hope  that our efforts - Unesco's efforts - will spare young  peoples so cruel an alternative.
37.13 I believe that the first thing is to take care  not to give those who still lack it that medium which  is known as literacy and of which "reading, writing  and arithmetic" are the popular expression, without  simultaneously explaining the limitations of that  medium and providing some foreknowledge of the end  to which it 1e directed. It 1e therefore education  which must be aimed at - à concept which greatly  exceeds that of literacy. In attempting to provide  that education, we must avoid humiliating the tattered  lord referred to a moment ago and who hides under  the national pride of us all, This means that simul-  taneous education of children and adults is necesgary,  To this end, it would be extremely useful to prepare,  as soon as poasible, cultural textbooks for each  country, which would not only enable the nationals of  a given country to appreciate thelr own culture, but  would also reveal it to foreigners, Such textbooks  would be particularly valuable in African countries  with an oral tradition since, despite the danger that  they might sometimes fossilize a living thing, they  would preserve the essential elements of something  which Is now purely oral from irremediable oblivion.  Subsequently, separate textbooks would be produced  for different subjects, covering as many fields as  possible : religion, law, science, handicrafts, etc,  But it would be wise to start with an elementary text-  book, a sort of attractive reader in which each individual.  could discover the hitherto implicit reasons for his  pride expressed without flattery and an outline of the  main features of his personality,
37.14 Another method of making known such  threatened cultures as those of Africa, while simul-  taneously helping the countries which produced those  cultures, is to arrange exchanges of teachers and  students. We hope that these exchanges will be frequent  and easy since they provide the nations with their  surest means of communicating with one another,
37.16 Thus, there gradually takes shape that con-  ception of Unesco which, for economically developed  countries, is their glory and we might even say their  spiritual ornament,but which, for péoples undergoing  swift economic development, like those of Africa, is  their only hope of intellectual survival,
37.16 Another choice confronts us - that of language.  As Malagasy. citizens, we expressed our ‘opinion in  this respect in the Administrative Commission and,  like many Africans, we consider that the preservation  of a language conditions the preservation of a civilize-  tion, We of Madagascar have Lad a single written and  spoken language for a century and a half. But as  members of Unesco, we should like to ensure that a  multiplicity of languages does not result in a Tower  of Babel; we therafore emphasize the need for bi-  lingual education in almost all countries, and also  the need for bilingual national cultural textbooks,  One of the languages being the language of communica-  tion, we also ask that the specific question of the  choice of that language should, in the next ter: to  twenty years, be the subject of careful consideration  based on geographical criteria,
37.17 However urgent it may be to provide a whole  people with means of communicating with the world,  ‘I should like to express the hope that Madagascar  will adopt the method of "hastening slowly" which  the Romans favoured. Only thus shall we be able to  avoid sacrificing the peace of a still primarily rural   XxXxVvil PLENARY  population to the publicity associated with results  secured too quickly. Without prejudice to emergency  regional ald, priority must be given, as far as help  in general is concerned, to drawing up an inventory  of needs, then to working out a specific programme,  both being based on consultations between nationals of  a given country and Unesco specialists. Aid, in the  form of technicia”8 or funds, can be distributed later  without causing resentment or lack of balance. Since  the spread of education should never become a  dividing factor, we hope, too, that this aid, as far  as Madagascar is concerned, will, wherever it- may  come from, remain Unesco ald and that the Organiza-  tion will in any event assume responsibility for it  officially and handle its distribution. In this field,  we reject the notion of gratitude, since the benefits  of education should involve no political counterpart,
37.18 Through such aid, moreover, we can hope  to see established the international solidarity required  for the distribution of knowledge. Although we joined  Unesco later than other nations, we know that our  case is not unique and that there are other countries  in Asia and America which suffer, lke our own, from  a serious lag in the education of their peoples. That  is why the solutions adopted in regard to the general  distribution of the budget surplus seem to us equitable.  We are grateful that particular attention has been  given to African needs and we warmly welcome the  suggestions made, whether by France, the United  States of America, Yugoslavia, Poland or the USSR,  or by the Afro-Brazilian Conference, designed to  enable us to exchange our views,
37.19 We should like to thank each of the Member  States, whether mentioned by name or not, for its  solidarity and its understanding of the only moral  principles that can save the world. We cannot but  believe that every school which is opened is not only  grounds for hoping that disease and misery will  decline but also means the burgeoning of happiness,  the promise of a great poet, a great scientist and a  step in the direction of a serene and peaceful world,  That thought makes me happy to have joined Unesco,  happy that Africa is represented on the Executive  Board and, finally, in a wider sense, happy to work  side by side with you, not only for our own people but  for all those who are starved of that which is more  than bread alone, -
37.20 Whatever pleasure we have derived from the  cultures of modern countries - those of France,  England, America and others - and however liberal  and near to being universal these cultures may be in  essence, let us make no mistake: a new society is  arising in which we; the Negroes, will play no little  part and, together with this new soclety, a new  humanism is arising which will change the straight  line hitherto drawn between the true, the beautiful  and the good, which will accept only such truth as is  perceptible to all and will give preference to the good,  its distributor, over the beautiful.
37.21 . We cannot reject this world of generosity  created for us by heighténed awareness of its shrink-  ing dimensions and Frenchmen will recall that Paul  Valéry who aspired to contemplation, that recompense  after thought, refused, at the end of his poem, to cast  a falling glance at the “cimetière marin", Already,  prophetically, he seemed to provide the reply of  youthful peoples, the reply which we bring to you:  MEETINGS  "Le vent se lève, il faut tenter de vivre ...  L'air immense ouvre et referme mon livre, "
38. The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe French):  I call upon H,E, Mr, Diallo, Head of the cdelega-  tion of Upper Volta.
38,1 Mr, DIALLO (Upper Volta) (Translation from  the French) :  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, my other  duties have prevented me from being present the whole  time at the discussions ofthis session but today! have  the honour of conveying to your distinguished assembly  the gratitude feltby the Government and people of the  Upper Volta at their country's admission to Unesco,
39,2 I take this opportunity, Mr. President, of  asking you to convey to the President of the Cieneral  Conference my warmest congratulations on his elec-  tion, to which the delegates to this eleventh session  attach particular significance. This demonsafration  of confidence in an African is interpreted by my  country as an act of faith in the destiny of contem-’  porary Africa, as a new conception of the value of  co-operation between free peoples without discrimina-  tion of any kind,
39.3 And that is why I take pleasure in repeating  here, after so many other speakers, that it is no  accident that 1960 has been described as the African  year and, more especially, that of Tropical Africa.  I am happy to observe that we are far from the spirit  which governed the European nations who met at the  Berlin Conference in 1885 a year which was also  an African year. Three-quarters of a century  separate the two dates, between which the major  portion of the Dark Continent lived under foreign  domination, under the colonial régime, and took  part in two world wars.
39.4 Yes, at that time, in Berlin, sometimes in  defiance of common éense, artificial frontiers were  created in 9 land conquered solely on the basis of  right is might, in which each new occupant set about  "cultivating man" in accordarice with the concepts  and methods of his own country,
39.5 Now, after deciding that their work wits more  or less completed, the colonizing nations have freed,  or are preparing to free, their colonial realms,  leaving behind a greater or lesser quantity of tares,  a harvest mére or less ripe, Once again, old Europe  devotes its attention to the Dark Continent. Let us  hope that this new spirit will hasten the process of  liberation thus begun, A breath of liberty and  liberality is passing over Africa, which has suddendly  become the beneficiary of unhoped-for solicitude as it  was once the victim of inordinate greed.
39.6 At the dawn of this new era of fraternal co-  operation between free peoples, between former  colonizers and former colonized peoples, I should  like to affirm with energy and conviction that, during  the three-quarters of a century of foreign domination  which came to an end on 22 September 1960, the work  of France in the Upper Volta provided positive con-  tributions in the economic and social sphere, We  must recognize honeatly that, along with mistakes,  {inadequacies and restrictions in education, there  were achievements which are to the honour of France  and partly justify the civilizing mission which she  undertook in my country.   PLENARY
39.7 The "ever-independent Upper Volta", to quote  President Maurice Yameogo, occupies a privileged  position in West Africa, from which it derives its  particular quality. It is a unique fact in the history  of the Dark Continent that the Mossi empire of the  Upper Volta, contemporaneous with Ghana, Mali and  Songhoi, is the only one to have resisted everything  and everybody from the Eleventh century up to the  present time, Even the Islamic wave which broke  over Africa from the Twelfth century onwards was  held back by the ramparts of its age-old traditions.  Thanks to its solid political and administrative  structure and the homogeneity of its population
(1,700,000 Mossis out of a total population of
3,500,000), the Upper Volta has been able to  remain an inviolate land of strong men, where  discipline and respect for established things has the  force of law,
39.8 I am happy to pay a well-earned tribute to the  French teachers, professors, doctors and mission-  aries who, with limited means, have given of their  best, some of them to bring light, others health,  and all of them well-being to the Volta peoples.
39.9 However, much - not to say, all - remains  to be done in respect of education and culture in this  comparatively well populated country where the  average annual increase of the population is estimated  at 2% - which will give a total of over one million  school-age children in 1970, When it is noted that  the 50,000 pupils attending the various public and  private educational establishments in 1960 repre-  sented only 8.2% of the school-age population, the  urgent need to remedy the situation will be apprecia-  ted, -
39.10 In 1960, the Government of the Republic of  Upper Volta devoted more than a thousand million  CFA francs - 2 thousand million old French francs -  to education, i,e. 23% of the national budget, In an  original fashion, it has undertaken a resolute cam-  paign againat illiteracy, with the bilateral assistance  of FAC and the FED, by carrying out the Christol  and Médard educational plan, a new educational  system especially adapted to the economic and social  conditions of the Upper Volta and linked with the  classical educational system. This plan is spread  over ten years and aims at providing education during  that period for 80% of boys and 20% of girls between
12 and 14 years of age in rural education centres set  up in the villages and covering on an average, an  area within a radius of 3 miles. This education is  designed for children old enough to take an interest  in agricultural and pastoral activities and has a  twofold advantage : it not only enables pupils to  acquire the rudiments of language, reading, writing  and arithmetic, but it also makes it possible to carry  out direct mass action determined by the specific  MEETINGS
45  xXxvI  needs of the peoples concerned, An office of rural  education protects the basic principles, draws up  curricula, distributes them to the appropriate staff  and supervises their application in close liaison with  the educational inspectors,
39.11 It goen without saying that this syscem, which  derives its originality from its adjustment to the  possibilities of the country and the particular section  of the population for which it is intended, does little  towards solving the burning problem of adult educa-  tion, one of the aspects of which I had occasion to  mention during the working meetings of the present  session, 1 shall not dwell on secondary and technical  education, which is available to barely 2,000 students  attending secondary schools, teacher-training courses  and public and private apprenticeship centres, nor on  higher education which is provided to 150 Volta  students outside the territory of the Republic, either  at Dakar, or in France, or elsewhere,
39.12 In the course of their statements, all those  delegates who preceded me here stressed the im-  mense needs of the newly-independent African States  and the urgency of satisfying this Himalaya of require-  ments in the interests of the modern world's harmony  and balance. I am happy to observe that all the  nations represented here have realized that it is not  enough to tell a man whose chains have just been re-  moved "You are free, go your own way" but that, if  that man is to enjoy his freedom within a short time,  justice and charity require that his wounds be bandaged  - all his wounds, including those in his heart, And if,  in addition, this man is to become an ally and a  brother, he must be helped to build his own house  and to bring light into it,
39.13 That is why, in conclusion, I should like to  voice a wish, namely, that all the modern nations  which are technically highly developed, whose power,  unfortunately, is measured by.their power of des-  truction, could forget their ideological hostility and  admit henceforth that true greatness lies not in the  extent of means of destruction but, on the contrary,  in man's determination to attain perfection, in his  desire to help the full development of each of the  individuals who make up the human race.
39.14 For its part, the Upper Volta will unre-  servedly proffer its humble contribution to Unesco,  drawn from the heritage of the ancient wisdom which  it possesses, It hopes thereby to take part in the  magnificent and urgent work of bringing about human  brotherhood, enlightened prace and general prosperity,  which remains the essential task of Unesco,  The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe French):  The meeting is closed.
40.  The meeting rose'at 7.25 p. m.