21 November 1960, at 10, 66 a.m.  President: Mr, D. Agustin Yañez (Mexico)  CONTENTS  General discussion of the Reports of the Director-General,  of the Executive Board and of Member States . . . . « . « 149  Presentation by the Chairman of the Executive Board of the  Report on the activities of the Board in 1959-1860 149  Presentation by the Chairman of the Reports Committee of  that Committee's Preliminary Report , . . . . .  General discussion , . , . .  GENERAL DISCUSSION OF THE REPORTS OF THE DIRECTOR-  GENERAL, OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD AND OF MEMBER STATES
1.1  The meeting is called to order,
1.2 This morning, we shall begin our general dis-  cussion of the Director-General's Report on the Ac-  tivities of the Organization in 1958-1959 and during  the first eight months of this year. Delegates will  remember that the plan for the organization of the  work of the eleventh session of the General Confer-  ence drawn up by the Executive Board (document
11 C/2 Rev.), which was adopted by the General  Conference at its sixth plenary meeting, limits the  general discussion on this item to ten plenary meet-  ings.
1.3 This discussion will begin today, 21 November,  and end on 25 November. There are 75 speakers on  the list. I should like to draw the attention of the  Conference to the Executive Board's recommendation  to limit speakers in this general discussion to fifteen  minutes. ‘1 am aure speakers will adhere to this re-  commendation,  PRESENTATION BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD  OF THE REPORT ON THE ACTIVITIES OF THE BOARD IN 1959-1960
1.4 The first speaker this morning is the Chairman  of the Executive Board, whom I now call upon.
2.1 Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom),  Chairman of the Executive Board:  Mr. President, Mr. Director-General and fellow  delegates, since the last meeting of the General  Conference, the Executive Board has met on five  occasions and there has been one special meeting of  the Bureau. These meetings have occupied a total  of 96 calendar days, during which we have held 99  plenary meetings, 43 meetings of the Administrative  Commission and 24 meetings of the External Rela-  tions Commission, not counting those of other  The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe Spanish):
0...  subsidiary organs of the Board, I give the General  Conference these facts in order that it should realize  that Executive Board meetings have made quite con-  siderable demands on the time of Board members and  the time of the Director-General and the Secretarlat.
2.2 The officers of the Board for the period now  ending were as follows: Vice-Chairmen, Dr. M.  Awad (United Arab Republic) and H.E, Mr. A. Matsui  (Japan); Chairman of the Administrative Commission,  H.E. Mr. R. Barén Castro (El Salvador); Chairman  of the External Relations Commission, Mr. G. Averoff  (Greece), To these members, the Board owes agreat  debt for the efficient way in which they discharged  their offices, There have been four changes in the  membership of the Executive Board, At the 64th  session we appointed H. E. Dr, M. Picôn Salas  (Venezuela) and Professor N. M, Sissakian (USSR)  to replace H.E, Mr, C. Parra-Pérez and H.E, Mr.  V. Kemenov, respectively. At the 56th session,  Mr. R. Soebroto (Indonesia) have notice of his im-  pending resignation and, at the current session, the  Board appointed Mr. Sumrito Reksodiputro to  replace him, Finally, all too suddenly, death has  deprived us of Dr, Pedro de Alba (Mexico).
2.3 During this two-year period we appointed the  following committees and working parties. A Special  Committee under the Chairmanship of Dr. S. M.  Sharif (Pakistan) prepared comments for the Truatee-  ship Council of the United Nations, These werebased  on the annual reports of the authorities administering  Trust Territories, A working party under the  Chairmanship of Mr, Julien Cain considered the  organization of the work of this General Confei':nce.  The report of this working party has provided the basis  for our present arrangements, and we have every  reason to be grateful to them for their work,  Mr, Julien Kuypers, Mr. J. Martfnez Cobo and  Dr, M. Schlueter-Hermkes represented Unesco on  the Joint Unesco/IBE Committee for 1956-1960.
2.4 1 should lke to interpolate here a remark of  a somewhat personal nature, In May of this year,  the Executive Board visited London. 1 venture to say   X PLENARY  in Paris, and with the agreement I beliéve of my  colleagues on the Executive Board, that there is  something to be sald for London - the place of  Unesco's initial inspiration, ! shall always remera-  ber that my Minister, the Leader of the United  Kingdom delegation, was the host of the Executive  Board during my term of office as Chairman, and  that His Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh  honoured us by participating in our meetings,
2,6 Throughout this blennium we have enjoyed the  full co-operation of the Director-General and hia  colleagues, in particular the efficient assistance  given to us by our Secretary, Mr. Jiménez, and his  sialf deserves an acknowledgement and our best  thanks, .
2.6 After consultation with the Executive Board,  the Director-General instituted changes in the organ-  ization of the higher directorate, Probably the most  important was the revival of the post of Deputy  Director-General, He nominated Mr. René Maheu  for this post, a nomination which received the full  support of the Executive Board. The Board, during  the last two years, has had ample proof of Mr. Mahen's  administrative gifts, his great energy, powers of  perception, lucidity, grasp of details and high quali-  ties of leadership,
2.7 The Executive Board would also wish me to  comment upon the impending retirement of one of the  senior officers of the Organization, l'refer to  Mr. Jean Thomas, who will be retiring at the end of  this year, Mr, Thomas has been a well-known figure  at all General Conferences, He has served the  Organization from its inception and; successively,  has been Director of the Cultural Activities Depart-  ment and Assistant Director-General. Members of  the Conference will know how Mr. Thomas combines  ability with charm, efficiency with wisdom, gracious-  ness with firmness, and patience with determination,  These qualities have meant much to us within the  intimate circle of the Executive Board, We have  appreciated them greatly and it is nice to know that  the General Conference agrees with us,
2.8 The last two years have again shown the extent  to which the work of the Organization depends upon  the goodwill and conviction of Member States if iis  programme, particularly within their own borders  and in collaboration with their neighbours, is to be  implemented. The Executive Board has, therefore,  welcomed every picce of evidence that more Mem-  ber States are organizing efficient National Commis-  sions and that they are giving them increasing res-  ponsibilities.
2.9 In September 1959 at the request of the Board,  I attended the conference of the United States National  Commission at Denver, Colorado, This was a con-  ference organized by a single Member State. Its  scope was, however, regional ; it was attended by  representatives from the whole American continent.  Its theme was the culture of the Americas, and its  proceedings have been published in an impressive  report which will do much to extend the influence of  Unesco in the Western hemisphere,
2.10 Two other regional conferences were held  early this year, and I attended them on behalf of the  Executive Board. The National Commissions of  South Esst Asia met in Manila during the second half  of January onthe invitation of the National Commission -  N 160  MEETINGS  of the Philippines, The European National Commis  sions gathered in Taormina late in February of this  year on the invitation of the National Commission of  Italy, These conferences left a clear Impression of  their value as aide to mutual understanding und co-  operation in grappling with specifically regional prob-  lems, They can be an inspiration to the work of the  National Commissions themselves and a spur to their  sense of responsibility to press forward with Unesco's  work in their own countries, .
2,11 During my term of office I have also been  privileged to visit other Member States on behalf of  the Board, These include the United Arab Republic,  Thailand and Japan, and {t was with great regret that  the Director-General and I agreed to abandon a pro-  jected visit to Tropical Africa. We had expected to  have the pleasure of calling on some of our new  Members to agsure them of the welcome that would  await them in Paris, By now they realize how cordial  that welcome is,
2.12 The Board has continued to attach great im-  portance to Unesco's close assoclation with inter-  national non-governmental organizations. Their  constructive advice on matters concerned with the  programme is much appreciated and their co-opera-  tion in executing many parts of it remains indispensa-  ble. We have devoted much time to reviewing the  directives concerning Unesco's relations with them  and to the extension of their range of influence,  particularly in Asia, Africa and Latin America.  Mr. Averoff, as Chairman of the External Relations  Commission, represented the Board at the Tth Con-  ference of Non-Governmental Organizations, held in  Paris last June, We also authorized the Diretor-  General to conclude a new agreement of most pro-  mising significance, that with the International  Association of Universities to carry out a research  programme in higher education. This was made  possible by a special grant of $500,000 from the  Carnegie Corporation.
2.13 Mr. President, you will not expect me to  make any assessment or appraisal of the application  of the programme authorized by the tenth session of  the General Conference. The material for these is  in the Director-General's own reports and I have no  doubt that this theme, with variations, will run  through many of thé speechsu to which we shall listen  during the next few days. It will be sufficlent that I  give a few examples of some enterprises the success .  of which commended itself to the Executive Board.  I would like to mention in the first place the survey  that Unesco carried out in 1959-1960, ‘on the needs  of education in Asia, in the Arab States and in the  countries of Tropical Africa, These surveys were  the theme of three regional conferences in Karachi,  Beirut and Addis Ababa, and as a result of them  Unesco has been able to present concrete plans to  this Conference for national and international action  on a large scale in order to develop education in  those regions of the world, Their significance for  the programme now under discussion is obvious to  all.
2.14 The world conference held in Montreal last  year will also mark an Important stage in the develop-  ment of adult éducation and it will contribute greatly  to this important aspect of Unesco's work.
2.16 The same can be sald of last July's conference   PLENARY  in Copenhagen on’ oceanographic research, The pro-  paratory work for this conference was most carefully  undertaken in a series of important preliminary  studies and promising results are already being seen  in this field of international scientific co-operation,
1 should also like to recall the successful Bangkok  Conference of January 1960 where a short and long-  term plan of action was adopted for the development  of press, radio, cinema and television services in  South East Asia, .
2,16 The Executlve Board has also congratulated  the Director-General on the successful outcome of  his negotiations with the Mexican Government regard-  ing the future maintenance of the Community Education  Centre at Patzcuaro, This furnishes an excellent  example of the way In which pioneer enterprises  initiated by Unesco can, in the fullness of time, be  accepted by Member States either singly, or in  association with their neighbours, as permanent  educational institutions, The Board would also wish  me to mention the Director-General's initiation of  the international campaign to safeguard the monu-  ments of Nubia, This campaign is inescapably pre-  sented to all of us who enter these buildings, The  Executive Board has unanimously decided that  Unesco should respond to the appeal of the Govern-  ments of the United Arab Republic and Sudan and it  has been very deeply impressed by the determination  and imagination with which the Director-General and  the Secretariat have carried out their decisions in  this matter and by the measures that they have taken  to ensure that this campaign should have the best  possible chance of success.
2.17 The Board followed the usual procedure of  examining the Director-General's proposals on the  preparation of the programme and budget now under  consideration by the General Conference. This has  taken a terrible lot of time, some of which the Board  could use more profitably in other ways. Let me  remind the General Conference what the present pro-  cedure requires. There was the first preliminary  discugsion at the 54th session of the Board in the  spring of 1959 when the Director-General outlined  to us his proposed general design of the programme  for 1960-1962, and the Board gave due time to this.  Then came a second stage at the 56th session in the  spring of this year when the Board considered the  provisional draft programme in detail, taking into  consideration the observations of Member States,  United Nations Speclalized Agencies and inter-  national organizations. At this stage it established  a drafting committéé under the ‘Chafrmanship of  Dr. El Fasi to'prepare its comments. -The  Director-General took account of the recommenda-  tions of the Board and embodied many of them in his  final docuraent (11 C/5). We did riot complete our  final stage of the discussion ôf the programme and  budget until this current 67th session. Before the  Conference met we examined the important additir.ial  proposals now before the General Conference and  completed the final comments which we have aub-  mitted to the Conference in document 11 C/6 Add. 1.
2.18 The General Conference will realize that  these discussions were inescapably detailed and .  thorough, In undertaken them we enjoyed the fullest  co-operation of the Director-General and of his staff.  It is right, however, that I should tell the Conference
161  MEETINGS X  that the Board le now convinced that the methods which  we have been required to follow raise serious adminle-  trative problems for the Organization \n general, and  for-the Board in particular. We believe that a new  time-table for these programme and budget conaulta-  tions is uriently necessary, and we have welcomed  the form in which the Director-General is submitting  experimental proposals to this Conference for the  next two years, as outlinéd in document 11 C/20, It  is intended that these should apply for the next two  years, l'repeat that they have the full support of the  Executive Board and we hope that théy will be accept-  able, too, to the General Conference, Collaboration  with the United Nations and Speclalized Agencies has  grown tremendously during the last two years, We  submitted an appraisal of Unesco's programme to the  Economic and Social Couricil, This has been widely  circulated and has already been discussed in the  Programme Commission at this Conference. We  also examined two comprehensive reports, the first  undertaken by Dr. Auger, former Diractor of the  Natural Sciences Départment, on the main trends of »  inquiry in the natural sciences, the dissemination of  scientific knowledge and the application of such  knowledge for peaceful ends, The second report, a  survey on international relations in education,sclence  and culture, will have full treatment in debate in this  hall on 7 and'8 December. The operation of the  Special Fund of the United Nations assumedincreasing  importance during these two years, and Mr, Narasinham,  the Associate Managing Director of the Fund, address-  ed the Board at its 57th session. He explained the  priority to be given to education in Special Fund pro-  grammes and the new responsibilities which Unesco  would consequently be asked to assume. At the  current session of the Board we also welcomed  Mr. David Owen, the Chairman of the Technical  Assistance Board of the United Nations, the ploneer-  ing authority for the provision of extra-budgetary  funds for Unesco. These consultations between the  Executive Board end the principal officers of other  agencies with which Unesco is increasingly brought  into contact foreshadow significant developments  which may be further accelerated by relations with  new international organizations, such as the Inter-  national Dévelopment Association and the Inter-  American Development Bank, Ab far as we have  been able to see, co-ordination between the United  Nations, its Specialized Agencies and Unesco is pro-  ceeding harmoniously.
2.19 Thé Economic and Social Council has recog-  nized and stressed the need for international co-  operation to help newly-independent territories,  particularly those of Tropical Africa, and wé have  examined at our recent session the new suggestions  which the Director-General is now making for the  expansion of the Unesco programme in these coun-  tries. They are now before you, together with the  entirely favourable view expressed by the Board  regarding the insight, initiative and reaourcefulnéss  shown by the Director-General in thése matters.  This also applies to the proposals that he presented  to us for meeting the educational emergency which  has arisen in the Congo, I have tried to keep in  personal touch with these dévelopments throughout  the last aix months.
2.20 The workofthe Executive Board, Mr. President,   x ) PLENARY MERTINGS  has been increasing as the work of the Organization  has increased, It ia destined to grow still further,  My colleagues and I have done the bect wé can aa the  watchdog of the General Conference during the last  two years. J think they would wish me to tell the  General Conference that we believe that we could do  better if the interrelationships of the principal organs  of Unesco were looked at afresh, in view of the great  Increase of range ;- size and complexity of the opera-  tions for which they now become responsible. This  inescapable fact carries with it the implications that  the working methods of the Executive Board itself  also need examination. That is why we think that the  time has come for the Executive Board to study this  matter, so that within two years the General Confer-  ence may be able to authorize changes that will make  possible administrative improvements in the ways  and means that we adopt of helping international co-  operation in education, science and culture.
3.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  We have listened attentively to the very informa-  tive and full report of the Chairman of the Executive  Board, to whom we express our thanks.  PRESENTATION BY THE CHAIRMAN CF THE REPORTS  COMMITTEE OF THAT COMMITTEE'S PRELIMINARY REPORT
3.2 I call upon the Chairman of the Reports Com-  mittee.
4.1 Mrs. KAMINSKA (Poland), Chairman of the  Reports Committee {Translation from the French):  Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, ladies  and gentlemen, as you know, the terms of reference  of the Reports Committee were set out in resolution  no. 54, adopted by the General Conference at iis  tenth session.
4.2 In accordance with the decisions taken, the  Committee met six days before the opening of this  session, in order to present its comments to the  General Conference and the Programme Commission  in good time,
4,3 The task facing the Committee was immense  and complicated. It had to examine the Director-  General's reports on the implementation of the  Organization's Programme for 1858 and 1859, the  reports of Member States for the same period, and  the analytical summary of these two series of reports  and assessment of the work carried out by the  Organization, prepared by the Secretariat,
4.4 The Committee also had to consider the action  taken by Member States on conventions and recom-  mendations adopted by the General Conference, as  well as the special reports on Human Rights.
4,5 Mr. President, as you may have noticed, the  report submitted to you carries the reference
11 C/11 (prov.). This is because our Committee  has not finished ite work and will have to meet again  later to consider a number of questions it has not yet  touched upon, To do so, it needs to have a general  idea of the salient points emerging from the discus-  sions of the General Conference. So far, its work  has been confined to the item now before the plenary  “meeting, namely ‘the general discussion on the reports  of the Director-General,
4,6 In a later report, the Committee will discugs  the future, i.e. the form and content of the reports  to be submitted for the next two years,
4.7 I should like to deal immediately with the  second part of the document before you, which con-  tains the Committee's comments on the way in which  the implementation of the programme in 1958 and
1969 has been presented in the reports of the Director  General and of Member States.
4.8 The Committee noted that the reports had to  satisfy two demands which were difficult to reconcile:  Member States were entitled to and needed detailed  information on all the activities undertaken, but, at  the same time, they required an overall picture, a  wider panorama of the work of the Organization, The  Committee therefore proposed that, in future, the  introduction to the Director-General's reports should  contain a summary of the major lines of development  of Unesco's activities, whils{ the details of their  implementation would be found in the body of the  report,
4.9 With regard to the reports of Member States,  the Committee was disturbed to gee that only 49  Member States had submitted reports in due time,  Since 13 Member States had submitted reports after  the date limit, 19 had thus failed in their constitution-  al duty to report to the General Conference.
4.10 In these circumstancies, it is obvious that  information required for a complete assessment is  lacking and the Secretariat has therefore had some  difficulty here in carrying out its task,
4.11 The Committee will return to this problem  when it submits its comments with regard to the  future, But I ventured to refer to it because these  observations explain some of the difficulties which  the Director-General had to face in preparing these  documents and which the Committee also experienced  later on in its work, when it had to consider the  implementation of the programme on the basis of  the part of the reports dealing with items destined to  be given special attention at the eleventh session of  the General Conference.
4.12 In its examination, the Committee took as a  basis for discussion the Director-General's parallel  analytical summary of the reports of Member States  and of his own reports, contained in document 11 C/9.
4.13 I shall now review briefly the gix items to  which the Committee devoted particular attention.  The first of these was the Major Project on the  Extension of Primary Education in Latin America,  The Committee noted with satisfaction the very  encouraging results achieved in the execution of the  project and paid particular tribute to the support  given by Member States not directly involved in the  project.
4,14 The Committee came to the conclusion that  the experience gained in the successful work done in  Latin America would be of great value to similar  projects in other parts of the world. The Committee  has submitted detailed comments on this item to the  Programme Commission,
4,15 The second item considered by the Com-  mittee was the Major Project on Scientific Research  on Arid Lands. The Committee emphasized the very  great importance of this project, not only for the  future of the countries concerned, but for mankind  as a whole, It felt that this aspect had not been   PLENARY  sufficiently clarified in the reports, although the  later did give an adequate picture of the results  achieved. The Committee decided to draw the  attention of the General Conference to the findings  of the general symposium on arid lands, held in
1959, which show clearly how Important and many-  sided the project is,
4,16 It is also important that, during the execution  of the Major Project, strong public aupport for the  objectives of the project should be secured, s0 as to  facilitate the continuation, alter the project has come  to an end, of the work started by Unesco,
4,17 With regardtothe Major Project on Mutual Ap-  preciation of Eastern and Western Cultural Valuea,the  Committee noted that the keen interest shown by Member  States inthis project was demonstrated by the fact that  every one of the 49 Member States who had reported to  the General Conference had included information on it,
4,18 The Committee considered that, in the execu-  tion of this project, the active interest of Member  States had been the prime factor in ensuring its un-  doubted success; it wished, however, to pay due  tribute to the part played by the Secretariat in co-  ordinating and stimulating activities.
4.19 The Committee noted with satisfaction that it  had been possible to establish direct co-operation  between various Member Staten and National Com-  missions. It considered that this was an important  step forward and that efforts should be continued in  that direction, It also thought it important to re-  double efforts to secure the co-operation of an in-  creasingly wide public in the execution of the Major  Project, to devote greater attention to school curricula  and to associate authors of textbooks and former  fellowship-holders with ihe project, In efforts to  reach the general public, great care should be taken  to see that material based on superficial information  and faulty conclusions does not jeopardize the very  aims of the project, The Committee considered that,  when reporting on the Major Project, its ultimate  aim should always be borne in mind; that aim, as  stated by the Director-General in paragraph 11 of  document 11 C/9, is world peace through inter-  national understanding.
4,20 Finally, the Committee wus of the opinion  that developments in Asia and in Africa should be  taken into account in the execution of the Major Pro-  ject and should be dealt with fully in future reports.
4.21 The fourth item examined by the Committee  was that of international scientific and technical co-  operation by the convening of conferences, congres-  ses and other international meetings. The Com-  mittee noted that the directives given by the General  Conference to the Director-General on this item had  not been couched in specific enough terms and that  the reports consequently contained comparatively  little information on the subject, The Committee  took the view that this very failure was a measure  of the importance and difficulty of the problem. In  a world in which scientific and technical co-operation  is becoming increasingly wide in-scope, there are  great dangers of overlapping. Similarly, much waste  occurs through the random diffusion of the findings of  the various conferences and congresses, The Com- .  mittee noted with satisfaction the efforts to improve this  situation, described bythe Director of the Department  of Natural Sciences in his supplementary oral report.
4,22 It has been found extremely difficult to make  concige, yet intelligent, reports out of a multitude of  scientific data, It was suggested that, in order to  relieve future reports on the activities of the Organi-  zation of this additional burden, it would be expedient  to print reports on scientific conferences and other  meetings in "Impact of Science on Sodiety".
4,23 The Committee then considered the question  of sclentific co-operation in the social sciences  through the improvement of documentation and pro-  motion of teaching and research, It observed thet,  on this important subject, the Director-General had  not found it possible to report In a way entirely in  accordance with the suggestions of the General  Conference, The Committee thought, however, that  the patent success in applying the social sclences to  problems of social and economic development was  encouraging. It considered that progress achieved  in social science documentation, which is the very  basis for all undertakings in this field, was satisfac-  tory in view of the limited funds assigned to this part  of the programme by the General Conference. One  delegate, though sharing the views of the Committee  on the results achieved in this field, felt that certain  problems vital to the future of mankind had not been  given enough attention, He mentioned particularly  the problems of disarmament and peaceful co-exist-  ence and referred to paragraph 11 of the Introduction  to the Director-General's assessment of the work  done by the Organization (document 11 C/9), in which  it was stated, inter alia, that "Unesco is, and must  remain, what its founders intended it to be - an  instrument for the promotion of world peace".  Further, this delegate held that there was discrimina  tion, in the Department's publications, against social  scientists in the Socialist countries and against the  results which they had achieved.
4.24 With regard to the sixth item studied with  particular interest by the Committee - namely the  programme of Participation In Member States’  Activities - the Committee noted that the document  submitted to it did not give it the possibility of study-  ing the question, since it only mentioned it very  briefly, although Member States had been specially  invited to report on their experience of the Participa-  tion programme. In his oral statement, the repre-  sentative of the Director-Gehéral drew attention to  the printed reports of the Director-General for 1958  and 1959, which contain complete docurnentation and  detailed information on the Participation programme.  These reports describe two important developments,  namely the simpler, faster and more effective  administrative procedures for the examination of  requests for eid under the Participation programme,  and the distinct improvement in the requests them-  selves, dus to the fact that the Participation pro-  gramme has now entered its fifth year.
4.25 While taking note of these developments and  expressing appreciation of them, the Committee  regretted that the Director- General had not found it  possible to deal with the Participation programme  more explicitly in his parallel analytical summary,  The Committee considered it essential that, infuture,  the Director-General should try to show clearly how  far the Participation programme responds to the  requests for aid submitted by Member States, It is  obvious that as the budgetary provisions for this   x PLENARY  programme were exceedingly limited, a large num-  ber of requests could not be satisfied. The Com-  mittee fully realized that the Director-General's ta k  would not be an easy one but might possibly be facili-  tated if the Member States themselves were more  specific on this point in their reports and if they  gave particulars of the requests which had not been met,
4.26 This point led tho Committee to go into the  problem of the development of National Commisslons  more thoroughly, It found that, on the basis of the  information available, it was not in a position to give  a definite opinion on the development and work of  National Commissions, but it once again emphasized  how important it was for these Commissions lo  operate effectively 1f the programme activities of  the Organization were to be properly carried out,  More particularly, it drew the attention of the General  Conference to the importance of giving maximum  assistance to the newly independent Member States,  so as to enable them to set up such national co-  operating bodies, which might, of course, assume  different forms according to circumstances,
4.27 The Committee also thought that the decisions  of the various Regional Conferences of National Com-  missions should be taken into account in drawing up  the Organization's future programmes.
4.28 I should like now to pass on to the fourth and  last part of our report, relating to the assessment of  the work of the Organization in 1958-1959,
4,29 Resolution no, 54, adopted by the General  Conference at its tenth session, invited the Reports  Committee to submit a report "on the implementation  of the programme, containing in particular an analy-  sis of the way in which it takes account of the interests  aad needs of Member States".
4,30 The Committee considered it impossible for  any committee whatsoever, in a short session pre-  ceding the General Conference, to assess a volume  of documentation as great as that which had been  submitted to it, ;
4.31 Moreover, in view of thé immensely varied  work accomplished by the Organization, the Com-  mittee was not in a position to do all that the General  Conference had requested it to do.” As we know, the  Committee consists of only a few representatives of  Member States and therefore cannot speak of the  experience of all of them. Further, to make a  detailed analysis of the way in which the needs and  interests of Member States have been taken into  account in the execution of the programme, the  Committee would have had to know, not only what  has been done, but also in which instances the  Organization has not been able to meet the requests  of Member States. Now,as I sald a few moments ago,  suchinformation was not available to the Committee.
4.32 It considered, however, that in the light of  its debates and the conclusions it had reached on the  specific items it had studied, it could attempt to  make, if not a detailed analysis, at least a general  assessment. .
4.33 It was particularly anxious to draw the  General Conference's attention to the fact that its  assessment was based on limited factual knowledge  and was therefore no more than a generalization.
4.34 Onthe substance of the question,the Comraittee  came to the conclusion that, onthe whole, the inter-  ests and needs of Member States have been reasonably .
154  MEETINCS  well met in the implementation of the programme,
4,35 One delegate, however, while sharing the view  that some sound work had been done in trying to take  account of the needs and interests of Member States,  pointed out that the needs and interests of some of  them had not been taken into account enough.
4.36 In his opinion, the reports; were inadequate  and the programme had not been fully executed,
4.37 The Committee then exainined Parts I and III  of document 11 C/9, in which the Director-General  gave an assessment of the work done in 1958 and 1959,
4.38 This document representes a first attempt to  assess the activities of the Secretariat and Member  States over a two-year period and links up past prob-  lems and the directives given by the General Confer-  ence at its last session with the new situation arising  out of changes that have taken place at the interna-  tional level since 1958. -
4,39 In presenting this document to the Reports  Committee, Mr. Adiseshiah, the Assistant Director-  General, briefly described the most important  features of the international situation which should  determine the future policy of our Organization.
4.40 "In the first place", said the Assistant  Director-General - whose address I take the liberty  of quoting here - "on 20 November 1959, the Member  States, meeting in the United Nations General As-  sembly, unanimously approved the principle of general  and complete disarmament, thus demonstrating  that the major corcern of all the Member States and  of all the peoples they represent is to maintain peace  and to eliminate the most serious threats to peace.  This is the essential aim of Unesco, as proclamed in  its Constitution".
4.41 “The Executive Board - acting through the  Director-Ceneral - requested our Organization to  continue t take all appropriate steps to create in  all the Member States a climate favourable to the  achievenient of the objectives defined in this impor-  tant United Nations resolution.”
4.42 "This is henceforth”, sald the Assistant  Director-General, "the first and most constant con-  cern of the Secretariat of our Organization."
4,43 The second obligation incumbent on the Organ-  ization arises out of the entry into the international  corimunity of a large number of newly independent  countries, particularly in Africa, to whom 1 take  pleasure in extending a warm welcome,
4,44 On the basis of the Director-(ieneral’s assess-  ment, the Committee considered the following items, ‘  which it considered to be the most vital factors in the  development of the Organization's activities; these  factors are the outcome of the very events that have  created the needs to which Unesco has had to respond  - events likely to have a strong influence on its future  development. : I.
4.45 These items are as follows: firstly, the  launching of large-scale programmes, financed from  extra-budgetary funds ; secondly, the trend towards  regionalization, brought about by the need for practical  achievements; and thirdly, the need to maintain  and consolidate the Organization's general activities.
4,46 As a result of the conclusions it drew from  {ts work, the Reports Committee adopted a draft  resolution which it submits to the Conference as an  annex to document 11 C/11, and which will be dis-  cussed by the Conference ir due course. With   PLENARY MEETINGS  this observation I shall conclude the remarks I  have had the honour of submitting to you.
5.3 The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe Spanish):
1 thank the Chairman of the Reports Committe for  her report,  GENERAL DISCUSSION
5.2 I call upon Mr. R.H, Thayer, Head of the  delegation of the United States of America,
6.1 Mr, THAYER (United States of América) :  Mr, President, before beginning my address 1  have the pleasure of announcing that this morning  the distinguished senator from the State of New York,  the Hon, Mr. Kenneth Keating, has just arrived to  join the United States delegation,  Message fron Mr, Dwight D. Eisenhower,  President of the United States of America
6.2 Mr. President, and distinguished delegates to  the eleventh session of the General Conference of  Unesco, I have the honour to read to you the follow-  ing message from the President of the United States  of America:  "It is a pleasure to send my greetings to all as-  sembled in Paris for the eleventh session of the  General Conference of Unesco, and a special wel-  come to the delegates from the new Member States.  Dedicated to broadening man's understanding of him-  self and the world about him, Unesco encourages the  peoples of many lands to open wide the doors of  educational opportunity. Achievement of this goal  will speed the progress of mankind and strengthen  the foundation for a just and lasting peace. In this  critical hour, as nations press forward to assure  the highest development of their peoples, Unesco can  provide an outstanding service for all, I am delighted  to add my congratulations to the leaders of Unesco  and my best wishes for the continuing success of their  endeavours, - Dwight D. Eisenhower."
6.3 Ihave been waiting, Mr. President, with much  impatience for eight long days for this opportunity to  extend warmly, from the United States, the warmest  possible welcome to the delegates from the newly-  independent nations of Africa, and to delegates of  other nations who have joined Unesco for the first  time. This message of welcome which I bring is a  rather special one because of the unusual relation-  ship which exiats between the peoples of Africa and  the peoples of the United States. First of all, as I  mentioned the other day, the people of the United  States are the first colonial people in modern history  to have gained their independence, so that we in  America have a feeling of understanding and satisfac-  tion when we hear that other nations have joined us.  But we have another special relationship with the  peoples of Africa which lies in the fact that the United  States numbers amongst its citizens the second  largest African population in the world. The Federa-  tion of Nigeria has a population of 30,000,000  Africans; in the United States we have almost, if  not more than, 17,000,000 citizens whose ancestors  came from Africa many years ago, They and their
155  children and their children's children have made  substantial contributions to the development of the  United States, and those of us who are nowinheriting  the benefits of these contributions owe them a very  deep debt of gratitude, There is, therefore, a strong  bond of kinship between us and I am proud, in re-  cognition of that bond, to be able to bring to the  delegates of the new tountiries assembled here a  very speclal greeting which carries with it not only  the hope, but the conviction, that our relationshipe  as individuals and as nalions will grow closer and  closer in the days and months ahead,
6,4 It is a very exciting experience, Mr, President,  for an American to stand upon the rostrum at aninter-  national conference as such as this, and to realize  that every single continert represented here has in  one way or another contributed to the prosperity and  strength and vigour of the United States today. The  people of the United States are descendants of every  country in the world, people of different races,  origins, colours and relijjlone have flocked to the  shores and plains and mountains of my country, and  by contributing their energy, their imagination, their  skills and the magnificent elements of their cultures,  have made my country what she is today. Every  American citizen in the world owes a debt of gratitude  to the people of every other country in the world - a  debt of gratitude which can never be repald. It is  certainly fitting that the good fortune - social,  political and economic - that has come our way as a  result of the contribution of the cultures of your  countries, should be shared by us with you. 1 myself  am proud of the blood that runs in my veins from the  great countries of France, Italy and the United  Kingdom. We Americans can join hands with Africa,  the Arab States, with Asia, Europe and Latin America  in the pride of our coramon heritage.
6.5 I dwell upon the origina of my country, Mr.  President, because it seems to me that in the United  States of America, and its origins, lies the greatest  testimony to the ability of people of different races,  religions and origine to live together harmoniously  in one great united group. The great German poet,  “ Goethe, remarked in 1830 that in America at that  time people of 90 difterent religions and almost an  equal number of different races and national origins  were living in amity. This situation, he said, marked  a turning point inthe history of mankind.
6.6 I wish to speak today on the quention of  whether it 1s not possible for us, ‘at this Conference  in Paris, to make a beginning of showing how re-  presentatives of jome 90 different nations in the  world can find a common ground in which to work  for the good of humanity, and thus to set an example,  which in its turn, can be held to be a turning point  in the history of mankind, The peace and harmony  described by thé great German poet was not a stroke  of fortune, it was the result of hard work, of the  control of human prejudices and passions, of the  binding together of peoples in a common urge for  development.’ ;
6.7 The people who came to America were human  beings and thus not without likes and dislikes and  prejudices. It may never be possibl> fully to  eradicate prejudice and discrimination, but we in  the United States have been working hard for the  elimination of discrimination on the basia of race,   CX PLENARY MEETINGS  religion or national origin, We are proud of the pro-  gress we have made go far and we are fully conscious  of the scope of the task that is still ahead of us, We  are determined to increase our efforts and to acceler-  ate the process, I personally had the honour, Mr,  President, of serving for two years on the New York  Slate Commission against Discrimination, a body set  up to devote its full time to enforcing the laws of the  State of New York which prohibit the refusal of  employment to anyone on the basis of race, creed,  colour or national origin. This is only one of a very  large number of efforts still being carried out in  every sphere of American life by both State and  Federal Governments, These efforts involve the  co-operation of all Americans, regardless of the  country of their origin, and we are making progress  every day of every month of every year,
6,8 Why do I atrees these matters et this time?  Why do I bring up this example of the people of my coun-  try, who, althoughthey are of different races, creeds,  colours and national origin, have successfully found  a way to live together in peace and harmony? It is  because I believe from the bottom of my heart that  the nations of the world can achieve this same unity,  And I believe further that Unesco can play the leading  rôle in this achievement which would indeed be a  turning point in the history of mankind. What Is this  rôle of Unesco? The international relations of one  country with another in the world today are, I sttbmit,  on the verge of a new era. The military relations of  the Middle Ages, the political relations of the Renais-  sance and the economic relations of the last few  centuries have not brought peace to the nations of the  world. Civilization has survived wars since the  Middle Ages, it will not survive war today. Some  new form of international relationship must be  devised to lay a firmer foundation for peace than in  the past. I believe this new form can be found in  those areas which are naturally conducive to binding  people together rather than in areas that are con-  ducive fo dividing them, I believe it can be found  in the relations of the people of one country to the  people of another country, in the fields of education,  science and culture. I believe it can be found in  those fields which are far removed from the tensions  of international political relations. In the domains of  education, science and culture, people of different  races, creeds, colour and national origin, and of  widely differing political beliefs, can come together  in closest harmony. Teachers and scholars, scien-  tists and artists are all deeply absorbed in interests  of great variety and depth. And in this vast, com-  plex, modern world, ever-broadening horizons of  human knowledge, new and exciting visions, the  massive void of outer space, the deep recesses of  the ocean are beckoning for the uninterrupted con-  centrated effort of human minds, unassailed by  political tensions, So also are beckoning the adult  populations in Africa who cannot read or write; the  children who have no schools or hospitals; the  struggling masses who have neither animals nor  machines to help them in their daily labours of living  and irnproving their lot.
6.9 There is a common denominator for all people,  irrespective of their political beliefs, in the advance-  ment of human knowledge. This common denominator  is, in the words of the Constitution of Unesco:
156  "collaboration among the natibns through education,  science and culture in order to further universal  respect for justice, for the rule of law and for the  human rights and fundamental freedoms which are  affirmed for the peoples of the world without distinc-  tion of race, sex, language or r eligion, by the  Charter of the United Nations",
6,10 I have just quoted from the Constitution of  Unesco. This common denominator lies in the  objectives of Unesco, this is Unesco's rôle today.  Is this not the hour, Mr, President, when al) nations  of the world can work together in a single organiza-  tion where representatives of all mankind can come  together and concern themselves with things of the  mind and spirit in seeking solutions for their com-  mon problems? Should not this organization be  Unesco, and this place Paris, at Unesco's General  Conference every two years? But, Mr, President,  this possibility lies solely in the hands of the delega-  tes to this eleventh session of the General Confer-  ence, There will be cynics who will say that such  an idea is idealism . But this is a new world in  which we are living and in which every day new  ideas are bearing fruit - ideas which raany hundreds  of years before had been labelled "too idealistic".  Thisis atime for new frontiers not only in geographical  distances but abôve all within our own comraunities,  This is the time for massive experimentation in the  relationship of man to man, I have more than once  emphasized my belief that when political tensions tre  at their worst in the world the time has come to con-  centrate on the cultural relations, of the people of one  country with the people of another country. I referred  on Saturday to the fact that, at the very time that the  relations between the Governments of Cuba and of the  United States were at a very low ebb, the Cuban péople  in Havana were ghowering applsuse and flowers and  other evidence of affection on the performers of th:  American Ballet Theatre. When the Summit Confer-  ence had given way to bitter wrangling in Paris in May  of this year, the people of the Soviet Union were  standing to offer tumultuous applause to the American  actors and actresses at performances of My Fair  Lady" in Soviet cities. I did not come here, Mr. ’  President, to make speeches criticizing the behaviour  of the delegates of the Soviet Union and other Com-  munist countries or the delegate from Cuba. I came  here for the purpose of stretching out my hand to  them to draw them close to me in matters which de  not divida us,
6.11 Soviet and American prcfessors, teachers,  students, scientists and artists are, at this very  moment, working in close collaboration on maiters  concerning which there is no division - matters  involving human knowledge. 1 have been compelled  much against my will to make some very strong  statements from this rostrum on the subject of the  cold war coniing into Unesco. 1 sald then, and 1  would say now to the delegates of this Conference,  if they wish Unesco to survive ns the most promis -  ing medium in the world for bringing the peoples of  the world together in common uaderstanding, if they  wish Unesco to seize the rôle that history offers her,  the delegates of this Conference will have to take  aggressive and concrete action to keep political  questions out of this Conference. 1 shall continue  to oppose the introduction of these questions with   PLENARY MEETINGS  every power at my command. Why are these ques-  tions introduced? Certainly not ior the purpose of  bringing the nations of the worldtogether to solve  common problems, Certainly not forthe purpose of  helping the nations of Africa establish educational  systems which will develop their countries with the  rapidity which they demand and deserve, Are they  introduced to cause confusion and disorder and dis-  may? These are harsh questions Mr. President, But  the prospect of the gradual reduction of Unesco to an-  other platform of the cold war is also a harsh prospect.  We cannot shirkthese questions bécausethey are harsh  or unpleasant, We must facethem and face them frome  practical point of view, As the distinguished Vice-  President of India saidlast week : "Unfortunately we  know there is no suchthing as abasic rationality of  human nature". Thehuman being is apolitical being  and a controlled political instinct requires concentrated  and continued effort, The delegates of this Conference  must decide whether they are goingto seize the op-  portunity of alifetimeto maintain anorganization  which canmake a finer contributionthanhas ever been  made inthe past to helping the peoples of the world, or  whether they are goingto allow Unesco, with its high  purposes and objectives,to become just another politi-  cal forum - another place fron: which political pro-  paganda can be spreadininterminable speech after  interminable speech.
6.12 Unless every delegate to this Conference  joins in a concerted effort to oppose, at every step  along the way, the introduction of political resolutions,  the making of political speeches, the use of this  forum as a place for political propaganda, and the  spreading of political ideology, unless every delegate  here dedicates himself to fight this throughout the  Conference, Unesco is doomed to lose the support,  both financial and intellectual, of all the nations of  the world who subscribe to the high principles and  purposes of its Constitution.
6.13 I would like to suggest to the delegates of  Africa and of Asia, the Latin American States and  the Far East that Unesco belongs to them, it is their  forum, it is the basis of their hope for their future  development. Here they can join all peoples of the  world in discussion and plans and action which can  be constantly developed for the advancement of  education, science and culture within their terri-  tories and for the social, political and economic  development of their countries.
6.14 What ig our purpose at this Conference? We  are here to devote our full attention to the programme  of Unesco. For, whatever may once have been the  case, this programme is no longer, anything less  than a well-thought out plan for co-operative inter-  national attack on problems of central importance to  the peoples of the world. What are, in broad outline,  our major objectives and the major ways of reaching  them? In my view they are very simply these :  first, to respond to the appeals of emerging peoples  to assist them in planning and, in so far as possible,  establishing school systems which, through able  administrative leadership of able teachers, can,  over a period of years, train literate and skilled  populations, Second, to help achieve, through the  friendly co-operation of scientists and social scien-  tists working together regardless of national bounda-  ries, the use of knowledge gained in a variety of
157  x  fields auch as the resources of the seas, the conquest  of aridity, and the adjustment of man to technological  progress, Third, to keep alive in a period of applied  science, an awareness of the cultural values we all  share, and the mutual concern through which we can  severally enrich human culture, achieve understanding  and promote peace. Here, of course, the Major  Project in East- West cultural understanding is an  excellent example, Fourth, to serve as the éduca-  tional instrumentality of the United Nations in all its  far-flung efforts carried on through the United  Nations Special Fund and in other ways to lift the  social and economic potential of gifted peoples, And  may I say, Mr. President, that during the course of  this Conference and very soon, I hope, the United  States of America will ask permission to present a  very concrete proposal concerning education in’  Africa, Fifth, to create a carefully planned and  guided network of scholarly or artistically creative  private organizations which will bring together skilled  and learned men and women the world around, for the  pooling and extension of insights into the various  component parts of the spiritual and intellectual  enterprise on the fruitfulness of which must ultimate-  ly depend the stature of man and his ability, In the  deepest sense, to understand and govern himself,  And finally, Mr. President, to maintain in as many  parts of the world as possible forums of free discus-  sion, in the hope that, as rapldly as feasible, barriers  to the free flow of information and the exchange of  views will crumble, giving waytointernational recog-  nition of liberty to think, speak and act which a com-  munity of peoples must enjoy if it is to be strongandfree.
6.15 Certainly, Mr. President, such a programme  is so challenging and so promising that it would be  calamitous if we here did not now proceed to rivet  our entire attention on it, and cease to be diverted to  areas of concern which, however important they may  be, are not ours here,
6.16 May I, Mr. President, be permitted to close  as I began, with the words of the President of the  United States in his recent speech to the United  Nations General Assembly : "We of the United States  will join with you in making a mounting effort to build  the structure of true peace, a peace in which all  peoples may progress constantly to higher levels of  human achievement. The means are at hand, we  have but to use them with the wisdom and energy  worthy of our cause. I commend this great task to  your hearts, to your minds and to your willing hands.  Let us go forward leaving none behind".
7. The PRESIDENT (Translationfromthe Spanish):  We have listened with pleasure to the message of  the President of the United States of America to this  Conference, read out by Mr, Thayer at the beginning  of hia speech, I call upon H,E, Mr. Roberto Mac-  Lean y Esten6s, Head of the delegation of Peru.
8.1 Mr. MAC LEAN Y ESTENOS (Peru) (Transla-  tion from the Spanish):  Mr. President, I should lke to begin by express-  ing, on behalf of my country and in my own name,  our profound satisfaction - which I am sure is shared  by all Latin Americans - that this plenary meeting  should be presided over by one of the most distinguish-  ed citizens of Latin America, Mr. Agustin Yanez,   x  Head of the delegation of Mexico, that great nation  and bulwark of democracy, the protagonist in so many  important chapters of world history, and so much  admired and respected by all the peoples of Latin  America.
8,2 Fellow delegates, when Unesco was founded,  it stood for the highest hopes of mankind, it was one  of the most dazzling adventures of the human raind,  a splendid promise held out to humanity, a powerful  tool, forged in the heat of passionate ideals, working  for the dissemination of culture and, through it, for  the advent of a happier world.
8.3 Fourteen years have since gone by - quite long  enough for the green buds of promise to have blossom-  ed and yielded fruit. Our distinguished colleague,  Paulo de Berredo Carneiro, the delegate of Brazil,  recently stated: "Since the creation of Unesco in  London, we have lived through many years of high  hopes, which are now frozen by the cold war", and  on another occasion: "Confidence in Unesco is  lacking". This was the case and unfortunately still  is. The read along which we have travelled has been  strewn with disappointments and disillusionments.  Fellow delegates, it 16 vain for us, within these four  walls, to sing lyrical songs, like that of the swan,  swing the censers or redouhle, for diplometic reasons,  our hymns of praise, salaams and compliments to the  Organization, when, outside, an entirely different,  more prosaic and harsher reality awaits us.
8.4 Let us, not imitate the ingenuous, stupid  behaviour of the ostrich, which buries its head in  the sand as though the storm overhead would not  break if it did not see it. There is no point in hiding  the facts, which are internationally notorious. The  army of the disillusioned is growing daily - the army  of those who have lost their faith and hope in Unesco -  of those who accuse it of having been incapable of  carrying out its aims and of having diatorted its  mission - of those who assert that, in this ininiature  Tower ‘of Bable, although people speak all the world's  languages, they are incapable of reaching friendly  understanding in any one of them - of those who  assert that Unesco, as an intellectual tool, has  become rusty, We do not share this cynical pessi-  mism. We still nurture uor hope and our faith -  although both are sometimes sorely tried - in the  principles proclaimed at the foundation of the  Organization, fourteen years ago, Yet we cannot  deny nor hide the facts, because that would mean  closing our eyes to what is perfectly obvious.
8.5 The most serious and perillouo crisis ex-  perienced by mankind throughout its history is now  shaking the world to its very foundations; the whole  human race is caught in a web of fears and hopes,  haunted by the dread of extermination, overwhelmed  by what has been called "The balance of terror". At  the same timé, we are not simple-minded enough to  assume that Unesco is a paradise in the midst of a  universe in eruption. Our Organization is passing  through a tremendous crisis, as a result of which  its Member States, whose interests and rights are  defended here by their delegates, cannot adopt the  passive attitude of an audiénce watching a play, for  it is their duly -and responsibility to strive with  determination to ward off that crisis.
8.6 I hope that ] may be allowed, with the Presi-  dent's consent and the indulgence of the assembly,  PLENARY
168  MEETINGS  to speak for a little longer than the time allotted to  each delegate, Thislrequest in view of the import-  ance and magnitude of the problem which it is our  urgent duty to tackle, not with fine phrases but with  complete frankness, without euphemisms and with  the unshakeable determination to find the solution  demanded and desired by all men of goodwill,
8.7 Therefore, fellow delegates, I appeal to your  indulgence and your kindness and can assure you that
1 shall try to be as brief as possible, that ! shall  adhere strictly to the iten( under discussion and that,  like everyone else, I am anxious that the precious  time set aside by the Conference for this debate  should not be wasted.
8.8 There are two reasons for the crisis through  which Unesco is passing: firstly the budget, its  structure and the way in which it is spent, and,  secondly, the increasing hypertrophy of the adminis-  tration,  B.9 Let us consider them separately, With regard  to the budget, Peru once again urges the adoption of  a policy of austerity which would justify spending but  condemn extravagance ; for this budget is absorbed  by three so-called "major" projects, by an almost  infinite proliferation of other unconnected, dispersed  and heterogeneous projects, which are in many cases  the result of individual pressure and not of legitimate  collective interests, and by the high cost of the  Secretariat, resuliing from the administrative hyper-  trophy from which Unesco suffers and which must be  curbed as soon as possible, in the interests of the  Organization's prestige,
8.10 Someone has ingeniously calculated that every  inhabitant of the world donates to Unesco the equiva-  lent of barely ten Swiss centimes per annum. But, in  return, I should like to ask what each of the 3,000  million individuals inhabiting the earth receives  from Unesco?
8.11 Let me narrow down the question: What does  each of the 650 million inhabitants of China receive  from Unesco, To narrow it down even further,  what does each of the 30 millions hungry, opressed  and poor Indians, eking out a meagre existence in  the mountains, high plateaux, tablelands, valleys  and gorges of Latin America, receive from Unesco?  At best, a drop of water to quench the thirst of  centuries, and this little drop of water is all they  receive out of the Organization's budget of $31,000,000.
8.12 Whilst an allocation of $1,132,000 is proposed  in the Budget under review for the "Major" Project on  Research on Arid Lands, there is no provision for  Latin America proportionate to its urgent needs.
8.13 Today, we have the paradoxical situation in  which overproduction and hunger exist side by side.  A few rich countries are not consuming all they pro-  duce, yet the far more numerous poor countrieslack  the tinancial resources to buy their surpluses and  are suffering from hunger,
8.14 One of every three human beings is hungry  - two-thirds of humanity is undernourished. In every  country - including the United States of America -  there are large numbers of people who are not pro-  perly fed, In China, ‘the mortality rate from mal-  nutrition is 170 per thousand, one of the highest in  the world.
8.15 According to statistical calculations, at the  end of this century the population of the world will be   PLENARY
6,000 million, or double what it is now, While in the  last hundred years (1850-1950), the total world  population has grown by 122%, the rate of population  growth of Latin America for the same period was
384%, In the ten-year period 1950 to 1960, the  population of South East Asla haa increased by 100  million.
8.16 The population of India, with one of the high-  est infant mortality rates in the world, is increusing  by 50 million every ten years, The Chinese popula-  tion is increasing at a similar rate and that of Mexico  by one million per annum, The population of tl.e  undernourished countries has grown by 50 million  in the last twenty years,
8.17 In order to tackle and solve this traglc prob-  lem, bound up with the earth, production and the arid  zones, the United Nations established a special agency,  namely the United Nations Food and Agriculture  Organization (FAO), whose task is familiar to all -  to increase production, fertilize the arid lands,  stimulate technical development and plan distribution  on a rational basis throughout the world,
8,18 Therefore, there is no need for Unesco to  interfere in these activities, which are outside its  scope, especially if such interference bleeds our  budget unnecessarily to the extent of over a milliun  dollars.
8.19 To pour a juz of water on a vast desert dying  of thirst is not to irrigate the desert but to waste the  water, Moreover, it is just as incredible for Unesco  to invest more than a million dollars in a study of the  arid zones as it would be for the FAO - something  which it has not occurred to it to do - were to invest  a similar amount in the establishment of primary  schools.
8.20 The East-West "Major" Project, like the  former project, has existed for four years without  its benefits having so far been felt; yet, in the  proposed budget, a sum of almost a million dollars  is set aside for it - an increase of $250,000 over the  previous budget.
8.21 In the fifty centuries before Unesco came into  being, exchanges of art and culture and reciprocal  influences between East and West existed, and they  will continue to do so as long as the world goes on.  To quote only a few of thousands of cases, I would  mention the immortal names of Rabindranath Tagore,  Tolstoy, Gandhi and Dostoevski, who attained inter-  national renown without the slightest help from  Unesco,
8.22 Attempts are , made to justify this project by  attributing to it a noble and magnificent aim - to  abolish, by means of cultural exchanges, the "cold  war" between East and West, Yet the facts prove  irrefutably that the position has not improved: the  cold war - surely it goes without saying - is now  more dangerous and more firmly rooted than ever.
8.23 Unesco's good intentions are having results  no more significant than a tiny grain of sand in the  infinite vastness of a desert, than a small olive-  branch in the uproar of a world cataclysm. But  these good intentions, which are outside the range  of the Organization's terms of reference, are cost-  ing us a million dollars - a terrible drain on the  budget which might well have been avoided,
8.24 The third "Major" Project concerns the  Extension and Improvement of Primary Education
159  MEETINGS x  in Latin America, It was started precipitately and,  as the Ibero-American Bureau of Education has quite  rightly observed, without previous planning, without  any statistics on educational conditions In the region  relying upon improvisation and losing its value in a  mass of unrelated activities,
8.25 Nor was this Headly sin, although very serious,  the worst, What is worse is that Unesco has tried to  build a beautiful skyscraper, starting with ths third  floor, without realizing that it is essential to begin  with the foundations,
8.26 In the world today, of the 550 million children  between 5 and 14 years old, almost half are illiterate,
90,000 million dollars would be required to solve this  serious problem, 800 million people cannot read.  Statistics show that illiteracy has been increasing in  the last 14 years, the very period of Unesco's exisi-  ence,
8.27 The extraordinary population growth in Latin  America - the total number of inhabitants having  passed the 300 million mark in the last 15 years -  raises fundamental problems for our continent, that  is, the adaptation of millions of individuals to new  living conditions, and the training of ithe younger  generation to face up to the responsibilities of the  new world, so different from that of the past,
8.28 There are now 20 million Latin American  children attending school ; but 15 million are de-  prived of education through lack of schools. All men  of goodwill should feel ashamed. When there are so  many million children without schooling, we should  be implacable in our demand that all bureaucratic  waste and prodigal spending be rooted out and that  the sums saved be used for the education of these  millions of unfortunate beings,
8.20 The taxpayers, the common run of people,  simple and unaffected, who are making sacrifices  to pay for Unesco's budget, would make them more  willingly if they knew that the sums so obtained would  be used to establish new schools for their children,  But they rebel against it, and even feel that they  are being defrauded, when they are convinced that  such sacrifices, which mean less and less bread for  their children, are to be used only to increase waste  and the salaries of a handful of privileged hurdaucrats.
8.30 At least half a million more teachers are  needed. The Inter-American seminars on education  held by the OAS, have shown that in the next 15 years  there will be 20 million illiterate children, a figure  which is in itself a cry of alarm, and that adult  illiteracy in Latin America has now increased to a  total of 48 million. As a result of the efforts made  over the past 25 years by the Governments of Mexico,  Peru, Cuba, Argentina, Venezuela and others,
90,000 new teachers’ posts have been established  and 4 1/2 million children have been enrolled in  schools.
8.31 The respective universities of almost all our  countries have faculties of education, where teachers  in all subjects are trained, and also teacher-training  institutes or schools for the training of primary  school teachers, The OAS, the Ibero-American  Bureau of Education and the Governments of the  United States of America, the Union of Soviet  Jocialist Republics, France, Italy, Belgium,  Czechoslovakia, Mexico, Argentina, Brazil and  Chile have, in the last two years, established   x PLENARY MEETINGS  atotal of 580 fellowships for the training and  further educationof teachers.
8.32 The Director-General of Unesco, in the Pro-  posed Programme and Budget we are now examining,  could do no less than acknowledge that "these and  other improvements (since 1956) cannot, of course,  be considered as resulting exclusively, or even  directly from the Major Project",
8.33" It is an excellent thing that Unesco should be  investing part of its funds for the training of socio-  logists in Santiago de Chile, social science research  workers in Rio de Janeiro, journalists in Quito, and  mathematicians in Argentina. It is better still,  obviously, that the training of primary school  teachers in Latin America should have been given  the status of a "Major" Project. But all this is only  the third floor of the magnificent edifice. The archi-  tect has forgotten to begin at the beginning - with the  foundations. The tackling of the Indian problem is  the essential and inevitable primary stage; unfortu-  nately, the organizers of the project have until now  failed to understand this.
8.34 Thirty million Indians, fellow delegates,  thirty million Indians, forming the national majorities  in some countries and being a powerful population  element in others, live miserably in inhuman condi-  tions, scattered from one end of America to the other,  from pole to pole, from Alaska to Patagonia, for-  gotten, oppressed and abject, dying of hunger when  they are not dying of cold or the effects of filthy  conditions.
8.35 Before thinking about giving an individual an  education, it is essential to enable him tolive like a  human being. Before they need sociologists, social  workers, teachers, mathematicians, journalists and  primary school teachers, these thirty million Indians  want to be able to live - to live as human beings and  not as beasts of burden as they do now, Before  teaching these thirty million pariahs the alphabet in  a language which fs not their own, it is of prime  urgency to revive their human qualities, to rescue  them from serfdom, from the oppression of a feudal  system which has robbed them even of the capacity  to think,
8.36 We cannot shelve a problem of this tremendous  magnitude any longer without incurring serious res-  ponsibility for the present and future of Latin America,
8.37 The worthy efforts of the Regional Fundamental  Education Centre for Latin America (CREFAL), which  is studying the economic, social and cultural life of  the rural communities of the Patzcuaro region in  Mexico, are most laudable, as is also the work being  done on the Nicaraguan Rio Cocos and the Peruvian  Vicos and Puno-Tampobata Projects, that being  carried out by the Indian Co-ordination Centres and  Cultural Missiona in Mexico, the Andean Mission  (Peru and Ecuador) and the Rural Schools (Peru,  Ecuador and Bolivia) and the wide range of provisions  made within the framework of their limited budget by  the various States who are tackling this tremendous  problem. But all this is but a scarcely perceptible  glimmer of light in the deep and fearful darkness of  a stormy night.
8.38 Fellow delegates, it is wonderful indeed that  Unesco, with a voice resounding throughout the world,  should be campaigning for the salvation of the sublime  monuments of Nubia, threatened with submersion in
160  the waters of the great river which the men of an-  tiquity raised to the rank of a god and which the men  of our century are going to tame and convert into a  mighty instrument for the progress and prosperity  of the peoples living on its banks,
8,39 It would be no less wonderful if Unesco, with-  out the blaring of publicity campalgns and the solemn  formality of committees of patrons, were to under-  take a similar campaign to save from poverty, ab-  jection and death those thirty million living monuments  - the Indians of the New World, cosmic fragments of  Latin America's mountain ranges - without waiting  for the day, which is gradually drawing nearer, when  these thirty milion oppressed people, already driven  to the limit of their patience and despair, resolve to  embark on the dangerous course of seeking justice  for themselves,
8.40 Bureaucracy: Unesco is suffering - and this  is one of the chief causes of the crisis going on within  the Organization - from progressive bureaucratic  hypertrophy and I therefore urge that Peru's proposal  for budgetary austerity be applied as strictly as  possible, At previous sessions of the General Con-  ference, the delegations of the United States of  America, the United Kingdom, the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics, France and other countries have  urged that a brake be put on the increasing bureau-  cratic inflation which is doing our Organization such  harm,
8.41 This year, the Executive Board, at its 56th  and 67th meetings, recognized the urgency.of "re-  ducing staff costs through improved distribution of  work and the most effective use of avallable staff" in  order to "keep administrative costs as low as possi-  ble". Up till now, at this seseion of the General  Conference, both at the plenary meetings and in the  meetings of the Commissions, several delegations  have emphasized the need to remedy this bureaucratic  hypertrophy, among them those of France, the Union  of Soviet Socialist Republics, Japan, Greece, Rumania,  Venezuela, Peru, the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic, Belgium, Austria, Switzerland and Finland,  The last four delegations mentioned expressed thelr  surprise at the fifth meeting of the Administrative  Commission, at the marked increase in the number  of staff in the Office of the Director-General and the  establishment of a post of Director of the New York  Office, "all of which"; they sald, "was contrary to  the decisions of the General Conference". :
8,42 As on previous occasions, those called upon  to find a remedy for this excessive bureaucracy  replied that they would study the question. They are  still studying it, In spite of all the promises, the  evil is gaining ground. The illness is getting worse.  The time has come to extirpate it in order to avoid the  damage andharm being caused to the Organization,
8.43 The Proposed Programme and Budget we are  now discussing does not give details - an inexplicable  anomaly - of the salaries received by staff members.  It gives only the posts, with their corresponding  grades, without specifying the salary carried by  each, Why has so vague and inconvenient a system  been adopted? Why place this gathering in the posi-  tion of discussing a project without knowing the  exact figures on which delegates will have to vote?  Why not allow the Conference to study the other budget  which gives the details of the salaries received by   PLENARY MEETINGS x  each and every one of the employees of the Organiza-  tion? Is there by any chance a secret budget ?
8,44 1 do not wish to refer to that proposed new  outbreak of bureaucratic inflation represented by the  chapter on "Co-operation with the Inter-American  Development Bank", since I criticized it, backed by  a series of unanswerable arguments and with ae much  downright frankness as good faith, at the first ple-  nary meeting of the Programme Commission, The  Latin American group gave me invaluable support  and we were informed, at one of the meetings, that,  as a result of my Intervention, the Director-General  had tactfully decided to withdraw this extremely  unwise project which, part from causing a drain of  more than $180,000 on the Organization's budget,  implied the weakening of the sovereignty of Member  States and was prejudicial to the whole spirit, system  and institutions of the Pan-American world,
8.45 The permanent staff at these Headquarters  numbers over 1,200. Moreover, there is a large  number of temporary staff members, The bureau-  cracy is continuing to expand ad infinitum with  cheerful impunity. This harmful inflation can easily  be stopped without any loss of efficiency by improving  the distribution of work, using the staff more effec-  tively, eliminating all favoritism, taking the system  - now discredited - of selecting candidates more  seriously and tolerating no laziness or inaptitude.  And let it not be said, as it already has been, that  other international organizations, such as the United  Nations, the Organization of American States, the  International Labour Organisation and the Food and  Agriculture Organization, have an even greater  degree of bureaucracy than ours, The sins of others  should not be used as a pretext to perpetuate our own.  Because others have leprosy, there is no reason for  us to be proud of having it too.
8.46 Moreover, this is a good opportunity to point  out that, at the current session of the United Nations  General Assembly, authoritative voices have heen  raised in condemnation of the excessive costs and  incompetence of that Organization's administration,  In addition, a few weeks ago, the Uruguayan econo-  mist, Rey Alvarez, resigned his post as Director  of the Division of Economic Development of the OAS  in protest against “increasing and sterile bureau-  cracy". That is what he called it. At the same  time, the Director of the Economic and Social  Welfare Department, the Argentinian Cecilio  Morales,.added that "the bureaucracy rife in the  OAS is making all plans for inter-American econo-  mic co-operation sterile".
8.41  Ferilow delegates, Unesco, too, ls suffering  from thi 4 1lix ss.
8.48  congiatulate, warmly and whole-heartedly,  the efficiynt 8 aff members who are an honour to this  institution und ‘enhance {ts prestige. We derive much  satisfaction from our almost daily dealings with them  in the course of our duties. But unfortunately, there  are not many of them, whereas there aré plenty of  the other kind, who consider their jobs as sinecures,  making use of Urieaco rather than serving it. There  is an {ncreasir number of minor "chiefs" at all  levels, in reality servitors, who take on the airs  and graces of lords and masters, Among those  known as "experts" - and 1 know some of them -  there are a great many who lack the wisdom
161  gratuitously attributed to them; take, for instance,  the insignificant pocket library that gives no service,  where books are spoilt or lost and would-be readers  are headed off in an undemocratic manner; these  other officials, servants who do not serve, with an  antediluvian mentality, absurd and intolerable, who  think they are hiding thelr Incapacity of laziness by  placing, systematically, a hundred and one little  obstacles in the way of the permanent delegations!’  work, because none of their administrative superiors  has taken the trouble to correct or rebuke them,
8.49 How splendid it is, too, that all the employees  of Unesco, in addition to thelr base salaries, which  are not exactly small, enjoy a wonderful range of  allowances : family allowances, education grants,  a non-yesident's allowance, a language allowance,  adjustments to the cost of living at the duty station,  a medical service and medical benefits - the latter  having been extended to the widows and children of  deceased officials or those killed on mission - French  social security services, a per diem allowance when  on mission, reimbursement of income tax, free  travel - which also includes their families - upon  appoinment and separation from service; free  travel - again including their families - for periodic  visits to their home countries, an installation grant,  indemnities for termination of appéintment, payment  for accumulated leave in the case of termination,  transpbrt of furniture and personal effects, housing  loans which have already benefited over 60 families -  indemnities for rigks attributable to the performance  of professional duties, plus adjustments to the cost  of living, which have already reached 17% of the  base salary. All this is very fine. But, in the light  of this wonderful system of benefits, unequalled  anywhere else, employees of every category, from  directors to messengers, should be reminded of what  a good many of them forget : their duty to carry out  their functions to the letter,
8.50 - The plan of budgetary austerity to which we  should commit ourselves would also require that  “travel on official business" be cut as much as  possible, In the last year, the Director-General  has visited India, Thailand, the Philippines, Japan,  the Urdon of Soviet Socialist Republics, Poland,  Czechoslovakia, Italy, Libya, Mexico, the United  States of America, Canada and the United Kingdom.  Until now we have not been informed, as we should  have been, of the practical results and positive  advaniages accruing to Unesco as a result of these  journeys, We only know that in the next two years it  is proposed to increase such travel even more and  that, in the budget we are discussing, there is an  incrense of $6,750 per annum over the current  budget for jurneys to be undertaken by the Director-  General, - . - : :
8.51 But then, in exchange, the other absolutely  unnecessary and competely useless form of travel,  which might be described as "organizational holiday  trips'' should be completely abolished. - A large  number of Unesco officials go on these trips, at the  Organization's expense, to nearly every country and  far tco often ; they do soon all sorts of pretexts and  without any benefit atallto Unesco, Thesetrips are all  the moreunjustified and pointless - although they take up  over half a million dollars inthe budget - in view of the  fact that,inthe countries concerned, there are   x PLENARY MEETINOS  ministries, government offices, National Commis-  sions for Unesco and their permanent officials,  intermediaries between Headquarters and the bodies  responsible for the direct performance of technical  projects in those areas. Moreover, in Parls, there  are permanent delegations of all the Member States,  which keep Unesco informed of the opinions of their  respective governments,
8.62 Fellow delegates, I cannot end this dismal  list of our Organization's shortcomings without thank-  ing you deeply for your patience and kindness in  listening to me, We are neither impatier( idealists  nor hardened cynics. We are but men of goodwill  who are trying to see things as they are and we  cannot resign ourselves to the fact that Unesco, in  its 14 years of existence, still in the initial period  of its activity, is persisting in its childish extrava-  gance and, instead of correcting its mistakes, is  making more and more,
8.53 We all have a duty to perform and we are  doing ours, however painful it may be, We are all  trying to prevent the failings and anomalies that I  have listed from becoming a permanent discredit to  the Organization, We are all trying to prevent the  twilight in which we are now living from turning into  a derk night; we are striving to make it, on the  contrary, the prelude to dawn, promising a sunny  day. Let night not yet fall upon Unesco |
8.54 On behalf of Peru, I reaffirm our loyal  adherence to the universal principles on which  Unesco 18 based, It is the duty and responsibility  of all of us to defend these principles and not to  remain passive spectators of the crisis through which  the Organization is passing. We must save them in  order that Unesco may not be a negligeable factor in  the radical changes taking place in the modern world,  in the advent of a new era for mankind; we must  cast away the heavy burden which is paralysing ite  wings, so that it may become more than a mere  dazzling hope sinking into obscurity and, through  our common efforts, be converted into a splendid  reality, harnessing the moral forces and technical  resources of mankind in the service of all the peo-  ples of the world. In order to remove misunder-  standing, prejudice and hatred, the first step is to  eliminate them from the minds of men. For, as  our Magna Carta states, it is in the minds of men  that the defences of peace must be constructed.
9. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 should like to thank the delegate of Peru par-  ticularly for the tribute to my country with which he  began his speech, I call upon the Director-General  who wishes to clarify certain points, ’
10.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL (Translation  from the French) :  Mr. President, I have no intention of holding up  this debate, which I am trying to follow with the  closest possible attention, by replying now to the  criticisms and remarks of Member States concern-  ing the criteria that should guide me in the immediate  and more distant future, 1 shall answer them all at  the end of the debate, .
10.2 But there is one point to which, in all con-  science, I must reply immediately, I refer to one  of the statements made by the Head of the delegation
162  of Peru. He spoke of the Secretariat, of {ts incom-  petence and, more particularly - and it is on this  point that I wish to reply - of the fact that only a  minute proportion of the Secretariat is conscious  of its duty to serve the Organization, and does in  fact do so, whilst a very large part exploits Unesco  for the sake of goodness knows what personal or  group interests, Allow me, in full awareness of my  responsibilities as head of the Secretariat, tn reject  this statement and to express my deepest conviction  that, from the Director-General down to the most  junior member of the Secretariat, there is not a  single person in this house who does not work for  the henefit of the Organization and of {ts Member  States.
11, The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe Spanish):  Thank you very much, Sir. I now call upon H,E.  Mr, Lazo, Head of the delegation of Cuba,
12,1 Mr, LAZO (Cuba) (Translation from the  Spanish) : :  Mr, President, Mr. Director-General, fellow  delegates, in a world full of prejudices, in which  people are wont not to judge but to prejudge, and  not to assess and appreciate ideas as such but as  distorted by the prejudices of those propounding  them, Unesco has a noble and most worthy mission  to fulfil. Cuba is ready to co-operate in that mission  to the full extent of its potentialities, sincerely and  without any mental reservations, without those pre-  judices that generate misunderstanding and every  type of aggressive attitude which we ought to abolish  for the good of mankind,
12.2 Cuba has come here not to raise political,  but human, problems and I believe that, on behalf  of my delegation, I can and must say this, and, in  so doing, am completely in line with all its proposals.
12.3 Cuba, which has often found locked doors  when it has made an approach in the name of peace  and understanding, has never abandoned this peace-  ful attitude. This has been proved by its behaviour  in this assembly and all its future activity will be  guided by the same principle,
12.4 The Revolutionary Government of Cuba, inter-  preting the sovereign will of its people, their ideal  of freedom and creative work, cultural and material  progress, human brotherhood and peace based on  justice, conveys, through the medium of its repre- .  sentatives here, its cordial good wishes to this  General Conference of Unesco and particularly to  the representatives of the new Member States. On  behalf of my Government, I should now like to give  you a brief account of what has been accomplished  by the Cuban revolution {n education, science and  culture in the short space of twenty months. 1 shall  attempt to formulate, albeit very rapidly, the prin-  ciples and aims of Cuba's active and far-sighted co  operation in the international sphere of Unesco; and,  finally, I shall explain what measures my Govern-  ment suggests that Unesco should adopt in order to  carry out to the full the tasks assigned to it,
12.5 Cuba is not a great power whose activities  in education, science ard culture are familiar to  everyone, Tne great powers can allow themselves  the luxury of philosophizing about the principles of  Unesco; but small nations are bound to bring their   PLENARY  achievements in this sphere to the notice of the world.  Since the Cuban Revolution triumphed on 1 January
1959, it represents the sovereign will of the people  of Cuba transformed into action; Cuba wants the  tacts to be known and wishes to keep and strengthen  its moral prestige, not by making empty, routine  speeches, but by showing what it has actually  achieved.
12.6 When the Revolutionary Government came to  power on 1 January 1959, Cuba, a country with over  six million inhabitants, had a school-age population  (between 5 and 15 years old) of 1,600,000 children,  of whom 800,000 were receiving no schooling at all,  This figure is even more significant when it is  realized that only 75‘ of these enrolled actually  attended classes, With regard to illiteracy, an  inevitable result of the situation described above,  the position was equally depressing. In 1898, at  the end of Spanish rule, 56% of the total population  was illiterate; in 1907, at the beginning of the  Republic, with an annual education budget of
4,200,000 pesos, the illiteracy rate was a little  over 31%, Fifty years later, in 1958, when the  budget was over 88 million pesos, in other words  twenty times more, the illiteracy rate was almost  at the same level, i.e. 31%, and in the rural areas  it amounted to more than 80%. To complete this  sombre picture of the educational situation in Cuba  before 1959, I would mention that, of the 600,000  children between the ages of 15 and 19, only 90,000,  i.e. 15% attended secondary schools,
12.7 As these figures and any others which might be  collected should not be used merely to arouse vain  regrets, I shall first explain the real, underlying  cause of this backwardness in a nation which is  intelligent, hard-working and adinirably served by  nature with vai‘ied and plentiful economic resources.  It is important to emphasize here not only the dis-  astrous results of the corruption of a political regime  ironically described as democratic and representative,  but also the influencé of powerful economic and social  factors which were iit the root of these and other evils  swept away by the Revolution,
12,8 The dramatir case of Cuba is indeed proof  positive that nothing constructive can be achieved in  education, science and éulture unless the peoples  enjoy trué political freedom which, in its turn,  cannot exist without économie freedom,
12.9 In over half i century of Republican rule,  many différent projects to improve the educational  system, beginning with the essential basis of primary  education, were lauiched in Cuba. Leading national  and foreign experts worked on this and a certain  number of school buildings wére constructed. But  these efforts found to echo among the population, had  no appreciable influence or positive effect in a society  where the wealth was exceedingly badly distributed,  where the majority were starving or lived in chronic  unemployment - the unemployment figures in 1958  were 700,000 - or, working in conditions that were  extremely precarious or insecure, went without the  most basic essentials of life - among which unfortu-  nately must be included food and clothing - in order |  that their children might go to school, In the vast  majority of cases, the schools were housed in old  tumbledown buildings in the urban areas or in the  typical Cuban peasant huts of the period, with a roof
163  MEETINGS X  of palm leaves and an earthen floor,
12,10 This distorted economic and social system,  due to the monopolizing of natural wealth by a native  minority and to powerful foreign interests (it will  suffice to mention as an example that 1% of the  population owned 60% of the land and that the average  per capita income in Cuba was seven times lower  than that in the United States of America, only 90  miles away), this chronic and ingurmontable econo-  mic crisis which divided the Cuban people into a rich  and powerful minority and an immense impoverished  majority, did not allow them to enjoy the benefits of  educational, scientific and cultural progress to which  they were entitled. The Revolutionary Government  therefore had to begin by introducing the necessary  economic and social reforms, followed by the reorgan-  ization and development of primary education, which  had, above all, to be extended to every part of the  country, This work has not only been done most  effectively by the Ministry of Education and its  Cultural Department, but also by the Rebel Army,  the Land Reform Institute and all kinds of official,  semi-official and private organizations, united in  a common effort to make 1961 the "Year of Popular  Education".
12.11 Only by contrasting this with the previous  situation already described is it possible to under-  stand the significance of the results which the  Revolutionary Government of Cuba has achieved in  education, science and culture in the short space of  twenty-two months, and which I shall now try to  summarize, The Ministry of Education has establish-  ed 10,000 primary school classes, most of them in  rural areas, and is planning to establish 5,000 more.  In all, this will be double the number of thos estab-  lished in the whole 58 years of Republican rule, The  annual budget for school material has been increased  from 500,000 to a little over 6,000,000 pesos.
12.12 The educational system has been transformed,  with greater decentralization and planning, and, where  the shortage of school buildings makes it necessary,  the solution of holding two sessions has been adopted  in order to extend the benefits of education to larger  numbers of children. :
12.13 One of the most striking signs of the funda-  mental importarce with which education is considered  in Cuba today is the conversion of a large number of  expensive military buildings into schools, as a result  of which over 20,000 Cuban children - exactly the  same number as that of the victims of Fulgencio  Batista's efforts to maintain his usurped, tyrannical  power after the military coup d'état of 10 March
1952 - are now receiving schooling in decent bulldings.
12.14 Reforms have also been introduced in second-  ary education)’ especially technical education, and  priority is given to the establishment of technical  secondary schools. Pre-university education is being  improved and, for the training and further training  of teachers, a Higher Institute of Education has been  established and is riow functioning,” Provincial and  municipal authorities, together with other institutions,  are taking part in this educational work.
12,15 Parallel with the impetus given to education,  a cultural programme has been put into practice,  This is particularly designed to benefit the entire  nation, throughout the whole of our territory, but  without detriment to activities relating to the more   X PLENARY  advanced forms of culture, In the first place - I give  this as an example - the General Directorate of  Culture of the Ministry of Education 18 endeavouring  to revive national cultural traditions and national  competitions have been held to stimulate the develop-  ment of journalism, creative literature and literary  and art criticism. The project for the publication of  books by Cuban authors is developing regularly and  these books are reaching the public, Periodicals and  bulletins are published and exhibitions of paintings,  engravings, architecture and sculpture have been  held. Tho theatre run by the General-Directorate  of Culture has put on 23 plays by representative  Cuban and foreign authors, Some of these perform-  ances have drawn audiences totalling over 30,000  people.
12.16 The dissemination of culture by theoretical  or purely descriptive means includes lectures by  Cuban and foreign artists and intellectuals, A National  Theatre has been established and is functioning  actively as an independent body. Another independent  agency is the Cuban Cinema Institute, a new institu-  tion which aims at enabling Cuba to express iis own  particular national genius in this sphere of art,
12.17 One of the most important cultural achieve-  ments of the Revolutionary Government has been the  National Press which, in addition to lending its serv-  ices to all State offices and departments, serves as  a vehicle to bring to the public a series of works  planned to provide a basic cultural training; it also  makes it easier for Cuban authors to publish books  intended for specific sectors of the public,
12.18 As an indication of the results obtained,  cases can be quoted of works published in 100,000  to 600,000 copies, approximately 90%, or nearly  all of these, being cheap editions.
12.19 With regard to higher education, I shall,  in this cursory summary, at least mention that the  univeraities of Havana, Las Villas and Oriente are  considering a general, co-ordinated reorganization  of their work, with the alm of modernizing their  methods, increasing their resources and doing every-  thing possible to meet the needs of the nation in the  spheres of culture, research and the training of  technicians,
12,20 A new department, the Cultural Affairs  Service, is being set up in the Ministry for Foreign  Affairs, _ .
12.21 The National Commission for Unesco has  been reorganized and its activities have been put in  order and increased. It is now an effective body for  co-operation with Unesco in all the latter's fields of  work, The periodical entitled "Cuba en la Unesco"  gives an idea of the work done by the Commission,  In its direct dealings with Unesco, the Revolutionary  Government has three very important achievements  to record: the liquidation of Cuba's debts to the  Organization, contracted by the previous Govern-  ment ; the doubling of the size of the premises (the  rent having béén paid by the Government). of the  Havana Regional Office, and consideration of the  possibility of giving this Centre still better premises  in what will be the Uneaco Palace in Havana ; and  finally, the organization in Cuba, paid for by the  Government and sponsored by Unesco, of an inter-  national conference to study ways of improving the .  international transmission of news, inspired by the  A
184  MEETINGS  obvious principle that a misinformed world is a  troubled world,
12,22 Cuba is thus responding in a practical way  to the assertion that the barriers to the free flow of  information must be removed; it has proposed the  practical project, which it hes defended in this  Organization, of holding a World News Conference  in Havana, but this project has been inexplicably  held up by procedural delays,
12,23 All this work done by the Revolutionary  Government in education, eclence and culture since  it came to power on 1 January 1969 provides the  most positive evidence of Cuba's faithful pursuit of  the ideals and aims of Unesco, The Gavernment's  educational and cultural policy is based on awareness  of the interdependence of the peoples of the world and  of the need to extend to all the benefits of education,  science and culture, and on the desire for peace  through better international understanding,
12,24 But precisely because we can offer a record  of positive achievement, Cuba, in formulating - for  the consideration of this Conference - its opinions on  the methods and activities of this Organization, wishes  to place special emphasis on the need for Unesco,  if it is to fulfil its mission properly, to face the facts  and find out more and more about the real economic  and social situation of every country.
12,25 For it serves very little purpose to send ex-  perts to countries which are still in a chronic state  of underdevelopment and unable to take advantage of  their advice. As the Prime Minister of Cuba stated  at the last United Nations General Assembly, we  might ask ourselves here what use it is to build  schools in the middle of a country where the children  are undernourished at home and their families, suffer-  ing from unemployment and in a permanent state of  economic insecurity, cannot even supply them with  the clothes necessary for them to attend the schools  planned by the experts,
12,26 Therefore, we should like to propose that  Unesco proclaim to all the international organizations  - and more particularly to the United Nations which  has the weightiest influence - and to the world in  general that the raising of economic and social  standards is the essential basis for any progress in  education, science and culture. We should take  this criterion as our guiding principle in carrying  out our tasks and devote the best and most enduring  of our efforts to ensuring its implementation.
12.27 Interpreting what is not only the profound  conviction of my people but an ideal which is forcing  its way to the fore in our times, I! say that Unesco  should categorically proclaim that the world, dis-  fllusioned and tired of formal solutions, is moving  towards real and practical solutions of the problems  facing mankind.
12,28 Cuba offers the fruits of its stort but rich  experience and expresses its unshakesble conviction  that there can be no law, resolution, definition or  agreement that is not based on pure truth, on exact  information, on a direct, intelligent and fearless  approach to human problems,
12.29 Today, Cuba brings this perfect correspond-  ence between principles and acts, between the pro-  clamation and recoguition of the right and the realities  on which the right must be based as an essential pre-  condition for its very existence, to playing its part   PLENARY MEETINGS  in Unesco, The culminating proof of this new policy,  the international application of which I am urging,  where sincerity, action and a real understanding of  things are blended, is the Havana Declaration of 2  September 1960, a document which goes beyond the  sphere of American policy and can be classed ar.ong  programmes which are universally applicable,
12,30 What is interesting to us in this Declaration  is the direct, frank and realistic way in which it  tackles human problems, Thus, in the Havana  Declaration, the condemnation of illiteracy and of  the shortage of teachers and schools would have been  merely one of those purely verbal, routine demonstra-  tions - so common in international life - if the  stricture had not been clearly, directly and ex-  plicity extended to the corresponding economic and  social conditions in the underdeveloped countries,  if the Declaration had not proscribed the system of  land ownership, the starvation wages and all the  injustices and privileges which are the sources of  poverty. The right of children to education, the  right of students to free experimental and scientific  education, the right of intellectuals, artists and  scientists to strive through their works. for a better  world, categorically postulated in the Havana  Declaration, would in themselves - as in any similar  document - be nothing more than fine, vague pro-  mises, if, at the same time, they were not accom-  panied by public denunctiation and condemnation,  without hesitation or subterfuge, of the circumstances  and conditions hampering the effective and total im-  plementation of those rights.
12.31 Finally, we believe that, whatever results  Unesco may have achieved for the benefit of mankind, the  constantly changing circumstances of the world in  which we live make it necessary for us to realize  that this international Organization is not in a state  of immutable perfection and that we should therefore  feel obliged to review its methods and its machinery.  Considering its noble and useful aims, it is our duty  to reorganize it with a view to greater efficiency and  intelligent realism and to increasing its activities,  making them more effective and more universal.
12,32 We believe that the General Conference  should have full authority and be given the utmost  importance as a meeting in which all the views  prevailing among the world's peoples on the subjects  within our sphere may be duly heard and weighed.
12.33 The Executive Board should be enlarged and  made as widely democratic as possible. If it is to
165  x  play a rea) part in the direction and administration  of I!nesco, its sessions must be Jonger so that, with  sufiicient time at its disposal, its proceedings may  not be reduced to taking formal decisions on matters  that have already been fully settled, Instead, it  wuould have a genuine opportunity of exercising its  influence throughoui the process of preparation, in  close contact with the Secretariat,
12.34 Finally, we should make a particular effort  to see that responsibilities and dutles are more  equitably distributed and that Member States are  able to intervene more effectively so that they are  not considered merely from the point of view of their  financial contributions, but from that of their res-  pective needs and the type of culture they represent ;  relations with them must not be reduced to a purely  bureaucratic system of consultation and negotiation.
12,36 Thus we extend our cordial good wishes to  all tho nations represented here, We are ready to  contribute our experience end affirm our will to co-  operate with Unesco for the attainment of the noble  alma assigned to it by its very nature and by the  terms of its Constitution,
12.36 This speech of mine would be lacking in one  essential elernent if I did not conclude by stating to  this gathering that whatever Cuba has achieved ana  is still doing, and whatever it is planning for the  future, it owes entirely to its own resources used to  the maximum - the resources of a nation litle  developed and numerically small and, moreover,  hampered by a tight and increasing international  economic blockade and the menace of planned and  repeated acts of military agression, as we have  reported to the appropriate international agencies.  Cuba is seeking aot merely guarantees but the im-  plementation of a principle and an objective which I  have pleasure in mentioning here and which deserves  to be noted - the principle of peace, peace founded on  justice and on the will of the peoples of the world,  freely determined.
13. The PRESIDENT {Translationfromthe Spanish):  After having listened \o the interesting remarks  of the delegate of the Republic of Cuba, I shall, in  view of the lateness of thé hour, adjourn the meeting.  At the eleventh plenary miteting, to be held at 3.30  p.m. , the delegates of the Netherlands, the Union of  Soviet Soclalist Republics, Spain and other countries  will speak. The meeting is closed.  The meeting rose at 1. 15 p.m,