14 December 1960, at 3.40 p.m.  President: Mr, Mariano PICON SALAS (Venesuela)  CONTENTS A  Adoption of the Report of the Programme Commission on  Part II of the Proposed Programme and Budget for 1961-
1962 (continued)  Adoption of the Convention and Recommeridation against  Discrimination in Education « . . e. 4 0 68 8 8 =: 6 0%  Adoption of the Recommendation concerningthe Most Effec-  tive Means of Rendering Museums Accessible to Everyone  Adoption of the Third Report of the Administrative Com-  mission, Part E - Appropriation Resolution . .  ADOPTION OF THE REPORT OF THE PROGRAMME COMMISSION  ON PART Il OF THE PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR
1961-1962 (contlaved)
1.1  Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is open. The  Conference hay already reduced some of us to an  almost danger( ys state of physical and mental fatigue  and it would be advisable if we tried to be as brief as  possible at this meeting in order to be able to finish  our work, if not this evening, at least tomorrow  morning,
1.2 1 have here a list of speakers who wish to take  part in the debate on the programme of aid for Africa.  We are, of course, dll very much in sympathy with  this idea, and we therefore recommend that speakers,  with whose views we are in agreement, make their  statements as short as possible, so that we can pass  on to consider the report on education:
1.3 The first speaker on my list is the delegate of  Ghana, Mr, O'Baka Torto, whom I now call upon.
2.1 Mr, O'BAKA TORTO (Ghana);  Mr. President, fellow delegates, Ghana has long  felt the need for co-operation among the African  States in the aptière of higher education, ‘and has  already offered sacholarships for higher education to  some of these States, My delegation is therefore  happy to be associated with the emergency programme  of fellowships for tho accelerated development of  education in Africa,’ and 1s seeking authority from  the Government of Ghana to announce the number of  fellowships it proposes to offer. It hag not been  possible, however, in the limited time at our dis-  posal to receive a reply,-- My delegation is never-  theless optimistic about the outcoine of the re-  quests we have semt home, and believes that  Ghana will be happy to give a further practical  demonstration of her ideals of African unity and  co-operation.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
2,2 My delegation proposes, on our return, to ex-  plain personally to the authorities in Ghana the aims  and objects of the fellowship programme and to impart  to them the spirit in which the aims and objects were  formulated at this Corference, in the hope of securing  a generous regponse for the fellowship programme,  We expect that Ghana's offer will be communicated to  the Director-General in the very near future.
2,3 Mr. President, fellow delegates, the delega-  tion of Ghana wishes you all a happy Christmas and a  prosperous and peaceful New Year.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon Mr. Kosscemo Joedo, delegate of the  Netherlands.
4,1 Mr, KOESOEMO JOEDO (Netherlands);  Mr, President, it gives me great satisfaction to  state, on behalf of the Netherlands Government, that  my country will be glad to associate itself with other  nations in the implementation of the Special Fellow--  ship Programme for "Tropical Africa, although as a  matter of course {ta contribulion cannot be as great  as those of the larger nations.
4.2 Some years ago my Government established  the Netherlands Fellowship Programme under which  we afford study opportunities to students from 31  countries in underdeveloped areas, Their total was
150 during the period 1957-1059. I regret, Sir, not  to be in a position yet to specify thé additional study  facilities my Government will be able to offer under  the Special Unesco Fellowahip Programme for  Tropical Africa. We hope, however; that in consulta-  tion and co-operation with the Director-General, we  shall soon be able to determine how we can make the  most useful contribution in the light of the purposes  - of this programme.  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Icall uponthe delegate of Liberia, Mr. Mitchell,
6,1 Mr, MITCHELL (Liberia): . -  Mr. President, Mr, Director-General, and konour-  able delegates, the Liberian Government has noted  with great satisfaction the special programme for  Tropical Africa which has been initiated at this ses-  sion of the General Conference. 1 have taken part in  the discussions and consideration of this programme  and have attempted in a small way to make some aub-  stantial contributions to the deliberations, My  Government is grateful to the Director-General and  the Secretariat for the hard work put into the draft-  ing of this programme, for anyone who participated  in the Working Party on Tropical Africa is well  aware of the difficulties involved, The present pro-  posals are those that have been presented by the  Africans themselves on the basis of what they have  considered to be the first priorities among their educa-  tional needs, In the name of Africa, the Liberian  delegation would like also to express ‘thanks and  appreciation to the delegation of the United States of  America for proposing an increase of $1m. in the  budget as a means of further implementing the  ‘Tropical Africa programme. We thank those who  supported this proposal and we pray for those who  wish us evil. This additional fund will make possible  the accomplishment of more work in the area of  education in Tropical Africa during the 1961-1962  period,
6.2 We must thank the United States of America,  again, for providing a sum of $1m, Jor the establish-  ment of additional educational facilities in Tropical  Africa, and our thanks go also to the Federal  Republic of Germany for the propositions they have  agreed to make towards the improvement and  development of education in Tropical Africa. We  also express our appreciation of the initiative of the  Yugoslav delegation in presenting its resolution call-  ing for additional aid for Tropical Africa. We thank  the co-sponsors of that resolution, as well as all  those who have voted overwhelmingly for the pro-  gramme for Tropical Africa. We are likewise grate-  ful to those who have proposed 300 fellowships for  the training of higher education officials in countries  of Tropical Africa. And so that it be not sald that  Africa is willing to raceive and not to give, I hereby  offer to countries of Tropical Africa, in the name of  the Government of the Republic of Liberia, ten  scholarships for training on the secondary and college  levels at any institution in the Republic of Liberia.  These scholarships may be negotiated on a bilateral  basis between the Government of Liberia and countries  wishing to take advantage of this offer.
6.3 We wish to thank all who have been responsible  for the smooth operation of this Conference. Our  associations here at Unesco have been enriching and  we consider ourselves fortunate to have been permitted  to take part in this Conference. Despite the many  shortcomings, despite some heated sessions, despite  the criticisms made of the Secretariat, wa feel that  Unesco is indeed moving forward to a greater day  in international co-operation,
7. The PRESIDENT (Translation fromthe Spanish):  I call upon Mr, À. Yañez, delegate of Mexico,
8.1 Mr, YANEZ (Mexico)(Translationfromthe  Spanish):  ~ 466  MEETINGS  Mr. President, fellow delegates, during thé mem-  orable meetings of this Conference, emphasis has  been laid on the need, in our common efforts within  Unesco, to avoid comparisons that might annoy cer-  tain States, to make no distinction between rich and  poor countries, between strong and weak, and to base  our work solely on the common denominator of our  unanimous support for the noble aims of the Organiza-  tion. Therefore, neither the aid nor the presence of  the Latin American countries will be missing in the  endeavours to assist the new States of Africa.
8.2 In this spirit, which is but a manifestation of  international solidarity in education, science and cul-  ture, I have great pleasure in informing you of my  Government's decision, notwithstanding the efforts it  is making in an ambitious eleven-year plan to solve  the problems of fundamental education once and for  all, to place immediately at the Organization's dis-  posal on the understanding that its contribution may  later be increased - three fellowships for studies at  the National University or at the Mexican Polytechnic  Institute.
8. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of Ethiopia, Mr. Neaniq.
10.1 Mr. NEQNIQ (Ethiopia):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf  of the Ethiopian delegation may I thank the Director-  General, his representative, his assistants and the  Secretariat of Unesco for preparing and making  possible the adoption of the excellent report on the  educational needs of Tropical Africa. My heartfelt  appreciation goes also to all those delegations who  voluntarily offered aid and assistance for the proimno-  tion of education in our continent.
10.2 Mr. President, this eleventh session of the  General Conference of Unesco has achieved its aim  of richness, universality and variety. It haa appointed  an African as its President, it has admitted newly  independent nations of Africa with full accord and con-  gratulations, and this morning we have approved the  report of the Programme Commission, the greater  part of which deals with the programme of education  for Tropical African countries. Especially with  reference to the programme of education for Tropical  Africa, the keen interest and the full sympathy shown  by many delegations during the course of the Confer-  ence and this morning haa demonstrated that, ‘given  goodwill and understanding among men and among  nations, the most complex problems will haye no  chance of not being solved, The Ethiopian delegation  believes in the principle of Unesco that in order to  create peace and a true understanding among men we  musi eradicate illiteracy and ignorance by extending  education to all peoples and by promoting irternational  relations and exchanges in matters of education, .  science and culture, so that all nations and peoples  can share with satisfaction the common achievement  of peace and progress, .
10,3 It was reported in the Programme Commission  that all surveys and meetings organized by Unesco :  showed that the most urgent and vital need of Tropical  African countries was for education at all levels. It  is in recognition of this problem that Ethiopia, in her  modest way, opens the fs ,1lf ‘es of her schools and  colleges to be shared w.th tl. scholarship and private   PLENARY  students from other éountries, States and territories  in Africa. It is in this spirit that my Government  offered 225 scholarships to African students during  the course of the Accra Conference, We recognize  that Africa greatly needs outaide aid but she needs  also to help herself, because those who help them-  selves help others, It is in this spirit and in this .  context, Mr. President, that I was instructed by my  Government to announce that five additional scholar-  ships at college level will be awarded through Unesco  for students froni African countries. Other awards  may also be negotiated by Unesco directly with my  Government,
10,4 In making this modest offer, Ethiopia gladly  plays her part in making available the resources and  facilities of her institutions for the general advance-  ment of the alms of this great Organization, We be-  lieve also that various regional groups within Africa  will implement Unesco's programme with full co-  operation and understanding and in pursuit of the  noblest aims of Unesco, international goodwill and  peace,
10.5 Mr. President, it is with much regret that I  recall a completely unfounded and false statement -  one which does not merit a proper answer - levelled  against my Government during the course of the  plenary meeting of 26 November by the delegate of  the Republic of Somalia. Iam sure that al! delegates  were as surprised as I was to hear that statement  made for purposes of pure political propaganda and  on a subject which is outside the competence of  Unesco and is excluded from the debate by our rules  and regulations, Ag far as Ethiopia is concerned,  relations between Ethiopia and Somalia are normal  and sound. I beg the Somall delegation to note the  declarations made by the Somali parliamentary delega-  tion after its visit to Addis Ababa in April of this  year. We thus consider that the statement to which
1 refer was unfounded and damaging to the neighbourly  relations of Ethiopia and Somalia.
10.6 Unesco, as we all know, is an organization  for the promotion of education, science and culture -  a simple definition which when convenient is intention-  ally ignored. To keep within the strict limits of  education, science and culture by which this Organiza-  tion is bound, may I be permitted to mention that in  Addis Ababa, Hara and other towns of my country,  up to 200 students from the Republic of Somalia are  pursuing their studies bath in secdndary schools and  in colleges, thanks to scholarships that are granted  to them by my Government. Despite the unconaidered  statement made by the delegate of Somalia, those  students will continue to share with those of Ethiopia  the fruits of knowledge and, faithful to the aim and  spirit of Unesco, the fraternal ald of which we know  they are in need,
10.7 Ethiopian policy is to live in peace and brother-  hood with all nations and to advance on the road of  progress and, consequently, to share with all peoples  in the common endeavour of human achievement. It  ig in this spirit, which is the spirit of Unesco, that  we support international co-operation and understand-  ing which must prevail over and above all discord.
11. ‘The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish); -  I cali upon Mra. Lambert, delegate of Israel.
12,1 Mrs, LAMBERT (Israel) (Translation from  the French)’ - a - ;  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not in-  tend to waste the Conference's precious time by des-  cribing what my Government hee already done or  intends to do in the way of providing assistance to the  States of Africa which have recently attained inde-  pendence. Israel, too, is a young State, and one  which has had to struggle a great deal, which has  certainly made mistekes, but which has also achieved  success in a number of fields, That is way we are  able to understand their requirements and difficulties  and desire from the bottom of our hearts to give  them our fraternal assistance,
12.2 1am not in a position to say, here and now,  how many and what sort of fellowships n.y Govern-  ment will be able to offer in connexion with Uneaco's  programme for Africa, but I can assure the delegates  here present, and particularly those of the new  Member States, that we shall do our best to respond  to the appeal which has been made.
13. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call Lyon the delegate of Brazil, H.E. Mr. de  Berredo Carneiro.
14,1 Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  (Translation from the French):  Mr. President, Brazil, too, would like to make a  contribution towards solving Africa's problems, The  Yugoslav delegation's excellent idea in launching this  solidarity campaign has been crowned with success  owing, in particular, t6 the magnificent gift just made  by the Government of the United States of America.
14,2 For all those who have been waiting for years  for Unesco's assistance, the day which has seen this  sudden extra-budgeiary. gift of one million dollars,  placed at the dispose] of the Director-General and  the Executive Board in order to carry out specific  tasks for the benefit of Africa, has been cone of great  rejoicing, You all know how Brazil has pressed, for  years past, for the creation of supplementary funds  to meet urgent needs, No matter under what heading  this sum is éntered, I should like to tell the Govern-  ment of the United States of America that we think  that, although evil is sometimes contagious, gener-  osity is certainly even more so.
14.3 Our own contribution is a modest one, but is  offered in a spirit of friendship. Mr. Director-  General; we should like to offer you the help of  missions of Brazilian educators - men who are used  to the problems arising at this level and who are  accustomed to working in close communion with black  peoples, were born in their midst and form part of  them. In addition to these missions of experts and  educators whom our country would like to send ai the  request of any African State - no matter which - we  should be happy to place at your disposal a certain  number of fellowships for young African students -  ten or so for the present, twice that number  in the near future, and as many as possible  afterwards.
15. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish):
1- call upon the delegate of Sudan, Mr. El  Mahdi.   PLENARY
16,1 Mr, EL MAHDI (Sudan):  Mr. President, ladles and gentlemen I shall try  to be extremely brief, but of course I have an obliga-  tion, I must thank the Director-General and the  Secretariat for the splendid programme they have  prepared for Africa. 1 feel it is also my privilege  to extend a very warm word of thanks to all the  countries that have come to our help at this crucial  moment,
16,2 Mr, President, the Sudan, like a number of  other African countries, achieved independence only  four years ago. Since then we have been very busy  in our country trying to reconstruct in all fields -  economic, social and educational, Our University  of Khartoum achieved university status only a few  years ago and the Technical Institute has developed  to the point where it now awards British diplomas  and certificates, I feel that time does not permit  me to try to acquaint you with our educational system,  but I would like to state that the policy of the Sudan  Government in 80 far as co-operation with African  States is concerned, and as concerns fellowships and  bursaries, was clearly outlined by our Minister of  Education in his address from this rostrum two weeks  ago. The Minister of Education then said: "In trying  to promote the development of education in its various  fields, the Sudan has always taken into consideration  the regional needs of our African and Arab neighbours.  The Sudan has long been co-operating with a number  of African countries in the fields of teacher training,  secondary and higher education. The Institute of  Education in Bakhter Ruda, which has become a world  institution, has beén giving training to teachers from  African and Arab countries, and the doors of our  secondary schools and of the University of Khartoum  and the Khartoum Technical Institute have also been  opened to students from these countries, It is now  the established policy of the Government to offer  places and acholarshipr in our educational institu-  tions to students from all countries; the only limiting  factor is our lack of financial resources"
16,3 Now that Unesco is discussing a special pro-  ject for fellowships for African countries, I would  like to state that the Republic of the Sudan would have  the utmost pleasure in extending these facllities with-  in the programme of Unesco and would be prepared  to place all our experience in this field at the disposal  of our brothers in Africa who have joined Unesco at  this session, That 18 what our: Minister of Education  declared from this platform, and I am pleased to  mention that on the occasion of the independence of  our great neighbour Nigeria, the Goverrment of the  Sudan o.fered the Government of Nigeria 22 scholar-  ships in our various institutions. I am sure it is the  policy of the Sudan Government to extend similar  facilities to.all our brothers in Afric). We in the  Sudan are in acute need of fe)lowships, and we are  being helped in this matter by a nümber of friends.  Nevertheless, we uphold the wise Arab tradition  beautifully expressed by the ancient Arab poet: fr  is not generosity to give when in plenty. Generosity  is sharing what you already have",
16,4 I feel the time {s inopportune to make definite  numerical offers of fellowships from the Government  of the Sudan, as the school seesion has already  started and the new session will not begin until July.  But I am sure that before July we shall communicate
468  MEETINGS  to Unesco the number of fellowships that we are  prepered to offer to our brothers in Africa.
17.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish):  Thank you, Sir,
17.2 There are still seven speakers on this item,  and I would ask tham to be as brief as possible. 1  now call upon Sir David Eccles, Head of the delega-  tion of the United Kingdom.
18.1 Sir David ECCLES (United Kingdom):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, the delegation of  Yugoslavia has scored a great success, I was not a!  all surprised, because if you were to ask any English-  man what he knew about the Yugoalavs, I think the  one thing he would say was that they were brave men  who fought hard for any cause which was dear to their  hearts. The Yugoslavs, and I congratulate them, are  fighting hard for this great cause of African education.  And I must say that I feel today that Unesco really is  a family, a family which like all respectable families  rejoices at the season when we give and receive  presents. My only regret ia that Mr. Thayer did not  come up to the rostrum wearing a Father Christmas  robe, which would have suited him very welll But we  could all, and that is the attraction of this debate, we  could all borrow each other's clothes and one after  the other appear in the dieguise, a very friendly  European disguise I am bound to say, of Father  Christmas, But no matter where one comes from,  members of a family like very much to give to each  other what they can, out of their own resources.  Therefore, 1 think we ought to be most grateful to all  those who come forward with such generous offers at  what is really rather short notice.
18.2 Africa's needs have been very well proved  and I feel particularly that we should rejoice that  certain countries in Africa have themselves offered  facilities for students, Education must become two-  way, it must not be "sens unique"; we must both  give and receive, for otherwise we shall not be truly  following the spirit of the United Nations, The United  Kingdom is already deeply involved in the granting of  fellowships, studentships, places at teacher-training  colleges, technical colleges and so on. If I remember  rightly we have 3,000 Nigerian students alone in the  United Kingdom today, we have 400 Nigerian teachers  in the United Kingdom holding fellowships of one kind  or another, I should like therefore to consnit with  my colleagues to see in what way we could munage to  put come part of our programme in the way of Unesco -  it may not be very easy to do because we have a  special machinery, the Commonwealth Education Unit.
1 cannot make any promisen because this involves two  other Ministers besides myself, but I do undertake  that we will do something to show our intense grati-  tude to the Conference as a whole for having high-  lighted the African programme, to Yugoslavia  in particular for having sponsored this resolu-  tion.
18.3 And as this is the last occasion when I shall  speak, may I thank the Director-General and all  those who have helped us through this Conference,  and not least our President from Africa, I think he  deserves our very great thanks, as do all those who  have helped him during our Conference.   xxx  PLENARY MEETINGS
18. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon Mrs. Gerônima Pecson, delegate of  the Philippines,
20,1 Mrs, PECSON (Philippines):  Mr. President, the Philippines congratulates the  Director-General and the Secretariat for the good  and speedy work they have done to enable the General  Conference to formulate its plans for meeting the  educational needs of Africa. In spite of the  gargantuan needs of the common fight against ignor-  ance in Asia, my Government gave specific instruc-  tions to its delegation here to support all proposals  on behalf of the peoples of Africa, Therefore, Mr.  President, in adding ours to the overflowing good-  will generated by the action of Unesco towards the  peoples of Africa, for which we are ao very happy,  I pledge my Government's determination and my own  to do our full share in the implementation of the pro-  gramme before us this afternoon,
20,2 1 cannot say how many fellowships we can  give, I believe it would not be difficult for us to give  five, Our Congress will meet in January and will  decide what best we can contribute by way of fellow-  ships and other forms of contribution. We intend  also to consult with the Director-General, and we  are determined, Mr, President, to do our level best  for all the peoples of the nations of Africa,
21.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish):  We hope that the Philippine Parliament, inspired  by Mrs. Pecson, will algo decide to add its valuable  coutribution towards aiding the African countries.
21.2 I call upon Mr, Nelson Williams, Head of the  delagation of Sierra Leone.
22,1 Mr. WILLIAMS (Sierra Leone):  Mr. President, fellow delngates, I shall be very  brief. At certain stages of the debate during this  Conference I was worried about what would happen  to the increased appropriations for Africa. I made  this point when I spoke at the plenary meeting in the  debate on the Director-General's Report. I said then  that increased and repeated requests from African  and Asian States should not be construed to mean  that we delight in playing the rôle of Oliver Twist  who asks for more, but rather than we want to lay  solid foundations for the future so as to improve our  economy and our structure of government, As Sir  David Eccles, the Head of the delegation of the United  Kingdom, pointed out, in educational deficiency lies  the greatest inequality amongst the nations of the  world, May I also refer to the staternent of the  Head of the New Zealand delegation, that various  countries in Africa and elsewhere already know their  needs, and what they require is the wherewithal to  find out how to make the best possible use of what  they have. So that the real emphasis, Mr, President,  has vo far been in providing the wherewithal with which  we can try to improve conditions in our parts of the  world,
22,2 I would also like to commend the great regolu-  tion proposed by the distinguished delegation of  Yugoslavia, and I bope that the Executive Board and  the Conference wiil find no difficulty in approving  this resolution, Iam delighted to associate myself  with the remarks that have already been made con-  gratulating the Yugoslav delegation and all the other  delegations who haye subscribed their names to the  amended version of the resolution which has been  proposed by the Programme Commission and which  no doubt will be unanimously approved by this plenary  meeting of the General Conference,
22,3 But, Sir, I am in a worse position than Mrs.  Gandhi was this morning, when she said that her  country belonged to the group of the "have nots". 1  come from a group which is even worse off than the  "have nots", and I regret that I am unable to be as  magnanimous as the delegations from India, Tunisia  and the delegations of other countries which belong to  the "have nota". But I am sure that the Prime  Minister of Sierra Leone, whom I represent here,  and my Government, will not for a moment grudge  their contribution towards the great international  campaign which has been launched by this Conference  at the instance of Yugoslavia, I pledge my Govern-  ment's full support and contribution to this campaign.  I am sure you know, Mr, President, that Chancellors  of the Exchequer and Ministers of Finance are very  difficult people to deal with, so that I cannot commit  my Government here, nor can I commit the Minister  of Finance. Nevertheless I can commit my Govern-  ment to the extent that it will make available, from  time to time, facilities and fellowships which will be  tenable at the University College of Sierra Leone,  the oldest university in Africa. I hope, Sir, that  within the not too distant future, my Government will  communicate to the Director-General full information  concerning the contribution we shall be able to make  to this ca:hpaign.
22.4  Trring the earlier stages of this Conference,  in the Programme Commission, I was much heartened  by the first gesture made by the delegation of the  Federal Republic of Germany and I then pointed out  that we looked forward to more delegations being as  magnanimous as that delegation in suggesting that  ‘ney would provide 1,000,000 marks for the develop-  ment of African natione, I did say, Sir, that we hoped  that by the end of the Conference we would have many  more offers from various other countries. Little did
1 know that so many more offers would be made in  this Conference before we went home, And'I have  been delighted, in sending telegrams home today, to  mention that we have seen here so much goodwill and  so much magnanimity that my Government, although  it 1s not very affluent, has lost little by allowing me  to stay here until the end of the Conference.
22.5 I want tc express, Sir, on behalf of my people,  how very grateful we are to the delegation of the  Federal Republic of Germany, who took the first  initiative by offering to provide 1,000,000 marks,  and {o the delegation of Yugoslavia who were  courageous enough to present this great resolution  which has met with such support, ard to all the  delegalions who subscribed their nemes to that resolu-  tion. I also wish to express my thanks to the delega-  tion of the United States. I was delighted today to  hear from Mr. Thayer, who I am sorry has left, that  they too were not only moving the increase of the  budget by $1,000,000, but that they are prepared to  provide an additional $1,000, 600 for the development  of African territories, Mr, President, may I be  permitted to aak the African delegates here to cheer   PLENARY  all the delegations which have been so very generous  towardt us in this Conference? I want to ask all the  Africans to cheer these delegations, I hope you will  permit me to dé 86, because I feel so deeply grateful.  May I also thank the delegations of Brazil, of Sudan,  of the United Kingdom (they have not committed them-  selves, but I know them very well - we have dealt  with them for so long that I know they do not want to  commit themselves - but when they make up their  minds, they make up their minds for good).
22,6 ‘ Those of us from Africa ‘who have come to  this Conference will go home with a gayer spirit, a  feeling of goodwill towards men at this time of  Christmas, May I take the opportunity of wishing  you, Mr, President, and you, Mr. Director-General  and all of you a Merry Christmas and a wonderful  New Year, Ihope, Sir, that when we come to the  next Conference in Paris in two years! time, Unesco  will have continued to grow in stature and in size.  And I hope that, although we have heard various  strictures here on the part of dissidents who have  strongly criticized some aspects of Unesco's develop-  ment, we shall see more goodwill end more interna-  tional understanding in the years that lie ahead.
23, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Sparüsh):  We all congratulate the delegate of Sierra Leone,  a most capable negotiator for our affection and inter-  est in Africa. I now have great pleasure in calling  upon the diligent Chairman of the Reports Committee,  Mrs. Kaminska of the delegation of Poland,
24,1 Mrs, KAMINSKA (Poland) (Translation from  the French):  It was not originally the Polish delegation's inten-  tion to take part in the debate on this subject, which  has, in fact, proceeded partly from a resolution sub-  mitted by Poland. But we could not resist the desire  to say how glad we have been to hear all that has  been said today in response to the resolutions concern-  ing the joint contribution of all Member States towards  increasing the number of fellowships - perforce few -  provided under Unésco's programme, so as to speed  up the training of national key personnel in countries  undergoing swift development, especially in Africa,
24.2 Here ig practical proof that international co-  operation 18 not just an empty phrase, Here is proof  that, no matter how modest contributions may be,  they may well add up to millions of dollars, The  Polish delegation is very glad to havu contributed to  the launching of this project, for the implementation  of the proposed resolution is a matter of extreme  urgency. Infact, its implementation has already  begun, although it has scarcely been voted,
24.3 So far as Poland is concerned, we are offering
20 fellowships for 1061 and 1862, as we have already  done in the past; 10 of these will be for scientific and  technical studies. But there is no doubt that the total  number of fellowships granted by Poland to foreign  students will be further increased in the near future.
25. ‘The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of Lebanon, Mgr Maroun.
26.1 Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) (Translation from  the French):  Mr. President, amidst all these expressione of
470  MEETINGS  .  sympathy and solidarity towards countries which have  recently achieved independence, Lebanon has a apecial  word to say, for we are indebted to all the countries  of Tropical Africa, which for many years have offered  their hospitality to thousands of Lebanese who have  lived, worked and amassed fortunes on their terri-  tories,
26.2 In order to show our gratitude towards the  countries of Tropical Africa, we should like to parti-  cipate in the programme of additional aid for the  development of education in Africa, At the beginning  of this year, Lebanon had already received some 50  fellowship-holders from the Congo, On the eve of the  present session of the General Conference, the  Lebanese Prime Miniater visited the Director-General  of Unesco and promised that a mission of teachers  would be organized and sent to the Congo.
26.3 But Lebanon will do more, Upon our return,  we shall inform the Lebanese Government about the  programme of additional aid, and I am sure that,  both as a proof of our gratitude to the countries of  Africa and as an expression of thanks to the Director-  General and the General Conference, we shall play  our part in this programme.
27. The PRESIDENT (Translated from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of Morocco, Mr, Elmanjra.
28.1 Mr, ELMANJRA (Morocco) (Translation from  the French):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, first of all 1  should like, as other speakers have done, to con-  gratulate and thank the Director-General and his  staff, who have smoothed the way for the preparation  of the African programme iñ general.
28.2 On behalf of my delegation, I should also like  to congratulate the Yugoslav delegation on its initia-  tive, thanks to which we have succeeded in adopting  document 11 C/PRG/32 revised, unanimously. We  are aware that the Yugoslav effort is not confined to  Unesco and that the same country's delegation has  launched a similar movement in the United Nations in  connexion with a resolution which is even more import-  ant for the future of the African continent,
28,3 We have every reason to be satisfied with the  great generosity that has been shown today and,  although Mr. François, the distinguished Chairman  of the Programme Commission, spoke of the contrast  between the urgent needs of the world and the sums at  our disposal, we are finding that the gap between the  two is being gradually reduced as we proceed with  our work. :
28,4 On behalf of my delegation and the Moroccan  Government, I am very happy to announce that my  country will place 10 fellowships for African countries  at Unesco's disposal. 1am also very pleased at the  speed with which our Government has replied to this  appeal, which wae only launched a few hours ago,  and I think this speed is due to the intervention of  the Rector of our university, who is also the head of  our delegation,
28.5 Our offer is a symbolical one; it is only a  beginning, and we hope to be able to do more in the  future and throw open the gates of our university and  other educational institutes in Morocco, The  Moroccan (Government has already, as part of its  programme of bilateral aid, made 30 fellowships   PLENARY MEETINGS XXX  available to Africans, But this is, as I said, only a  beginning, and we hope to be able to place an increas-  ing number of fellowships at the disposal of Unesco,
1should also like to mention that the Moroccan Govern-  ment is ready to share the experience it has acquired  in building schools cheaply and rapidly with other  African States, by letting them have documents,  models and plana either direct or through Unesco.  Furthermore, and in accordance with the list of re-  quirements drawn up by the Director-General on the  basis of correspondence with the States concerned,  the Moroccan Government will giye favourable con-  sideration to other means of assistance covered by  this emergency programme of additional ald for  Africa,
28,6 As an African State, we are deeply touched  by the generosity which has been shown here; if we  have calculated rightly, over 100 fellowships have  already been offered, and several delegations present  have not yet received instructions from their respec-  tive governments. We are sure that in this way we  shall succeed in reaching a figure of 300 fellowships  and perhaps more, But what interests us most is that  we see an important precedent being created, with  several countries placing fellowships which they had  been accustomed to give as part of a bilateral aid  programme at the disposal of a multilateral pro-  gramme, This is a precedent of capital importance  and we are convinced that it will be followed increas-  ingly in the future,
28.7 Merely because I had the honour of acting as  Chairman of the Working Party on the development  of Unesco's activities in Africa, I would not presume  to thank all Member States on behalf of Africa. There  is among us here a person far more qualified to do so  than I and one who can speak as an African elder.  You all know who I mean, and I shall leave it to you,  Mr. President, to call upon this delegate to speak.
290. ‘The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon Mr. Hampate Ba, delegate of Mali.
30,1 Mr, HAMPATE BA (Mali) (Translation from  the French):  Mr, President and delegates, like all mortal  things, the great historic year of 1960 is nearing its  end. But it is only doing so after having opened up  for future generations an era which could be a most  glorious one if we, men from all countries, could  recover our hurnan qualities - love of one's neighbour,  deferce of the rights of the weak, education of the  ignorant and liberation of the slave, If, on the other -  hand, we allow ourselves to be led astray by the  dark powers which seek to dominate and enslave their  neighbours, the year 1860 which is drawing to a  close will herald the opening of the gigantic tomb of  mankind, I personally have every reason to believe  that the light of understanding between countries and  humardtarian assistance between peoples will prevail  over national and individual egoism.
30.2 The generous offers just made by older, more  advanced and better equipped countries with a view to  helping Africa to educate itself, abolish its material  poverty, reinforce its natural strength and play ite  full part in the life of the modern world, are a  raagnificent sign of the times; they are the first  rays preceding the dawn of peace and mutual
471  agsistance, These gestures can be considered as the  first steps of à rejuvenated humanity, desirous of  making up for any political errors that may have been  committed and adding to any benefits that may have  been given,
30,3 Onbehalf of Africa, one and indivisible,  whether black or white, East or West, in the name of  an Africa which ranges from countries where it never  raing and where there are neither trees nor. grass to  countries where it never stops raining and where, in  order to build, man is obliged to clear the forest and,  in order to march, he must cut a path before him, 1  thank the generous donors, They are inspired by a  apirit of human kindness that does more honour to  man than costly wars, which lower the morale of the  victors and inflict material damage on the defeated.
30.4 Iam sure that Africans, feeling that they are  being treated as men rather than as domestic brutes,  will thankllly accept any moral and material assis-  tance and will not blush at their status of younger  brothers dependent on the advice and assistance of  their elders,
30,5 The word "Kuffar" which so enraged colonial  peoples when it was applied to one of them, is worthy  of an explanation. The word is derived from the  Arabic root "kafara", which means "to be ungrateful  for something". There are two sorts of ingratitude -  ingratitude towards God, for those who believe in God,  and ingratitude towards à human benefactor, which  applies to everybody. The latter is a for more serious  fault than the former, for the simp)e reason that in-  gratitude towards God cannot in any way affect the  magnanimity of God, whereas, where a man is con-  cerned, it is quite another matter, Ingratitude  towards a benefactor may well influence his state of  mind and even, sometimes, lead him to regret his  act and thus make him spiteful, Ingratitude towards  one's neighbour is therefore more serious, because  it can divert a man who {a well disposed from the path  of well-doing and make him spiteful. Africa will not  be ungrateful for the assistance it receives, It will  receive but it will also try to give.
30,6 It goes without saying that I shall not finish  my speech without thanking, on behalf of all Africa,  the Director-General, his brilliant and energetic  assistants and his devoted and intelligent Secretariat,
30.7 As Vice-Chairman, I congratulate the Working  Party on the development of Unesco's activities in  Tropical Africa and its Chairman, my young and  brilliant friend, Elmanjra, of the Moroccan delega-  tion,
30,8 On the eve of the New Year which is about to  begin, it is my earnest wish that all wili enjoy peace  and happiness,
30,9 What has been done during this eleventh ses-  sion of the General Conference of Unesco is proof of  the fact that, with a little more good-vill und patience,  we can subdue the brute that may be latent in each  one of us and extirpate this idea of war and this lust  for Killing which stalks us and degrades us,
30,10 Inconclusion, Mr. President and fellow dele-  gates, I shall quote one of our proverbs: there are only  two little words to express the gratitude inspired inus by  kindness, no matter how great that kindness maybe.  These words are "Thank you", Irepeatthem a t ousand  times, inthe name of Africa, to Unesco and toall those  who have helped our country in one manner or another.   XXX
30,11" We shdll go forward together, hand in hand,  with the same ideal of peace and desire for mutual  assistance in our hearts, and work to save our day  and age, with its immense potentialities from ending  in catastrophe. Peace therefore, Peace unto you all.
31.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish);  The finest Christmas present for all peoples is  this desire for peace and this demonstration of uni-  versal support for a continent which needs it as much  as Africa,
31.2 Before closing the discussion, I call upon the  Director-General,
32.1 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL (Translation from  the French):  Mr. President, the moving address which has just  been given by the distinguished representative of  Mali and the other speeches which have been made  during this debate require no comment; they are of  capital importance in their own right and mark an  important date in this session of the General Confer-  ence and also - and this I say without any hesitation -  in the very history of Uneaco.
32.2 May 1, however, be allowed to add my voice  to those who have expressed their gratitude, since  it is Unesco, which, thanks to a proposal inspired  by very noble feelings, is receiving increased re-  sources for meeting, not only the requirements of  its ordinary programme, but also the urgent needs -  which we had foreseen - of the countries of the  African Continent that have recently attained inde-  pendence,
32,3 Why did I say that this proposal and the idea  of the Yugoslav delegation were inspired by very  noble sentiments? Why is it necessary to thank all  those who have helped to secure the unanimous adop-  tion of this proposal? Because, for tke first time,  as a result of an important decision unanimously  adopted by the General Conference, there was not a  mere proclamation of the results of a vote, as often  occurs; the resolution actually began to be imple-  mented, and that is why the Director-General must  immediately express his profound gratitude. After  the adoption of the exceptional measures proposed,  thanks to the initiative taken by the Yugoslav delega-  tion, the gifts which have been offerad to us by the  Yugoslav delegiilon itself, the United States of  America, the Federal Republic of Germany and all  the other countries which have stated that they are  prepared to participate in the fellowships programme,  enable us to take action, We already have more than  half of the 300 fellowships which were provided for in  this programme, That in itself is an absolutely re-  markable success, In addition, these gifts and these  offers came from all parts of the world; that is  another thing on which I cannot place too much  emphasis,
32,4 Ihave pleasure in informing you, Mr.  President and delegates, that I am in a position to  propose forthwith the implementation of some pro-  jecta to the Executive Board, since the resources  are available and the requirements are known, And  as has been requested, I shall, without fail, keep all  Member States informed of the posaibilities open to  them and the requests which are forwarded to us.  PLENARY
32.5 I again express my thanks, not only on behalf  of Unesco, but in the name of international co-operation  and understanding,
33.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr, Director-General, for your very  useful remarks, On this optimistic note, we shall  now proceed further with our work.
33.2 We shall now begin our consideration of  Chapter 1 of Part II - Education. In order that our  discussion may be coherent, I shall request delegates  who wish to male suggestions to do 50 in connexion  with each particular chapter, so that we do not be-  come involved in too general a discussion.
33.3 Chapter 1 - Education, Are there any com-  mente? Chapter 1 is adopted,
33.4 We shall now continue with Chapter 1A - Major  Project on the Extension and Improvement of Primary  Education in Latin America, Are there any comments?  Adopted,
33.5 We will pass on to Chapter 2 - Natural Sciences.  We have one speaker on this chapter, namely H.E.  Mr, Calcagno, delegate of Argentina, whom I now call  upon.
34,1 Mr, CALCAGNO (Argentina) (Translation  from the Spanish};  Mr, President, fellow delegates, it was with pro-  found regret that I had to interrupt my attendance at  this eleventh session of the General Conference from  the first meeting of the Credentials Comrnittee, Now  that I have recovered from my illness, my first  thought was to come here to take part in the final  decisions of this great gathering, I feel very closely  linked to Unesco and have followed its work with the  keenest interest in these last two years. Only my  faith and my confidence in the future of our Organiza-  tion have given me the strength to come here this  afternoon to work at ‘your side,
34,2 Since its foundation, Unesco has been, and  still is, an outstanding symbol of hope for mankind,  which relies on its help to build a better world. This  is the thought and the feeling of all the delegates here  assembled.
34.3 Unesco must continue on its benificent way  and extend the scope of its action, in spite of all ob-  stacles and vicissitudes, We must welcome construc-  tive criticiam, take justified criticisms and objections  in good part - even if it hurts us - try to correct our  faults and, at the same time, strive to enlighten those  who do not understand, do not wish to understand or  act unjustly.
34.4 The primary purpose of the programme of  our Organization is to confer dignity upon mankind,  How can this be done? By defending human rights,  fighting against poverty and ignorance, reaffirming  confidence in the merits of democracy, contributing  to the spiritual freedom of oppressed peoples,  and offering wider possibilities to every human being,  But, in addition, the Organization's programme of  action should aim at ensuring that all peoples are in-  cluded in the ascent of mankind and, hence, in its  scientific and cultural progress, which is conducive  to the moulding of minds capable of devising, with  intelligence and zeal, ways of drawing every nation  and every people inte the great enterprise which dis-  tinguishes this cra of prodigious progress, Our   PLENARY  peoples do not wish to be mere spectators in this  gigantic campaign, this crusade for the conquest of  the globe: this is the aspect of Unesco's Natural  Sciences programme on which I should like to touch  briefly.
34,5 Mr, President, a great deal has been sald at  this eleyenth session about the Major Projects launched  by Unesco to implement the initial stages of its pro-  gramme of action. Until now, the greatest effort has  been devoted to spreading learning and extending the  benefits of education to the maximum number of  children and adults, In this domain, i.e, in every-  thing related to the development of primary education,  my country has reached a level comparable in many  respects to that of the most advanced countries,
34,6 That illiteracy has been completely eradicated  in Argentina is due to the perseverance, of five genera-  tions of teachers and statesmen who focused national  efforts on the training of teachers and the construc-  tion of schools. Among all these, we were fortunate  in benefiting by the bold and productive activity of  one of the outstanding figures of world education,  namely Domingo Faustino Sarmiento, whose 150th  anniversary will be celebrated throughout the contin-  ent on 15 February 1861, Our brilliant educator  fired the enthusiasm of his fellow countrymen and of  our brothers in Chile, Uruguay, Bolivia and Paraguay  and inspired them to devote themselves to improving  the lot of their peoples through education, His work  has never been equalled in South America. In 1888,  when his mortal remains were borne down the great  river Paranâ from Asunctôn in Paraguay to Buenos  Aires, five flags covered his coffin, This was the  tribute paid by these sister countries to this great  benefactor of mankind.
34.7 But progress in primary education is not  enough, Moving upwards through the varlous stages  of education, from the kindergarten to institutes for  advanced studies, the pupil's personality is gradually  developed, so that every stage is of fundamental im-  portance to his future career, But the highest forms  of education are those which enable the individual to  spread culture around him and give his fellow  citizens the benefit of unhoped-for contributions,  transforming science into collective bappineas.
34.8 The insufficiently equipped countries and,  even more, those which are on the way to ranking  among the well-equipped nations, cannot hope, by  eradicating illiteracy, to convert their people at  once into experts of this new atomic age, They can-  aot hope that a large percentage of their children will  learn to read and educate themselves so that they  can then receive a higher education proper, which  will qualify them to make up the required teams of  technicians, sclentista and statesmen, It is precisely  these scientists, technicians and statesmen who must  root out illiteracy in their own countries, and their  immediate training is perhaps the most effective way  of breaking the vicious circle of cultural backward-  ness,
34.9 The essential but slow campaign against  flliteracy is weakened if the dynamic and progressive  influence of institutes of higher education is lacking,  This is a point I should like to stress, Unesco is  doing an excellent thing in devoting all possible re-  sources to fighting illiteracy; but it should not forget  that there is another swifter, less costly and more
473  MEETINGS XXX  effective way of pursuing the same end - that is by  helping to train educators, scientists and key  personnel, who spurred on by national sentiments  will give impetus to the development of their respec-  tive countries,
34.10 Unesco's action should be twofold: while  teaching children to read and write with an eye to the  future, it should also endeavour to form, with the  least possible delay, a nucleus of leaders in the  fields of culture, social science and natural science,  who will provide slowly developing countries with the  technicians and politicians they need,
34,11 The present painful experience of some  countries which have recently become independent  leads me to assert that every centre for scientific,  technical and political education promoted by Unesco  will mean one batallion less of United Nations!  forces for the future, The facts have taught us that  the shears which cut through cultural backwardness  should have two mottoes engraved on their blades: on  one aide, "teach literacy" and, on the other, "train  technical and political leaders",
34.12 I should like to point out the urgent necessity  of developing science at the highest levels, because  scientific progress starts at the top; it does not go  from the bottom upwards but from the top downwards.  It is the privileged minds and the great aclentific  institutions which have given the impetus for scienti-  fic and cultural progress, Those nations which have  placed major emphasis on the great conquests of  science are the most advanced ones, This exceptional  hour, in which we are witnessing the dawn of a new  historical era, will be a landmark for future genéra-  tions. For it undoubtedly marks the dividing line  between what ls falsely described as the contemporary  era and the atomic age, which is opening up new and  unforeaeen horizons,
34.13 Just as people do not stop to think of the  mystery enshrined in the television set they use  every day or of the enormous amount of effort that it  has cost to bring this marvel into being, they do not  imagine or even try to think of the tremendous amount  of energy, devotion, intelligence, spirit of inquiry,  passion for invention and discovery, and genius re-  quired to send a sputnik or a "discaverer'' into space,  to fix ite orbit and to control it in such a way that the  capsule, falling into a specific part of the ocean, can  be recognized by an aeroplane flying in search of it,  as if it were a fixed point in the firmament,
34,14 To contribute to the training of minds capable  of achieving the exploits and great conquests of this  atomic era i8 also a fundamental task of Unesco and  is diroctly connected with the programme of this  Organization dedicated to education, sclence and  culture,
34.15 Today, the philosopher's stone is not some-  thing which turns base metals into gold, ‘but the touch-  stone which, in the mystery of laboratories and  experimental centres, enables human minds to make  prodigious conquests. For the past 15 years, we  have been living in a new historic era and we are the  witnesses of the extraordinary evolution of the con-  ception of the world in the minds of men in this  period of portentous changes. Who would have sus-  pected, 15 years ago, that it would be no longer a  mere dream in the style of Jules Verne, but scienti-  fically possible in the immediate future, i,e. between   XXX
1961 and 1972, to launch men into apace to conquer  new worlds?
34.16 The less favoured nations also wish to share  in this stirring daily transformation which mankind  is undergoing. Therefore, we claim as a fundamental  right of this new world society that all nations should  benefit by the most up-to-date developments in educa-  tion, science and culture, Unesco, as the Organiza-  tion responsible for promoting and spreading them,  should concern itself with all their aspects, from the  general to the particular - humanistic and scientific  aspects, old problems and new prospects, We do  not ask that our nations - and I am speaking specifi-  cally of the countries of Latin America, although  what I am saying also appliea to many other countries  at the same stage of development - should be endowed  with specialized institutions enabling them to compete  with the great powers, or at least catch up with them  in some respects, But we want our univirsities and  the scientific institutions which already exist to re-  ceive such ald and support as will enable them to  improve their equipment and bring their laboratories  up to date, to secure the co-operation of leading  specialists, to encourage the training of young  scientists and to help to create a cultural atmosphere  which will enable significant advances to be made.  In Latin America, we need large centres for research  and for the training of people who will be capable of  serving us efficiently and well,
34.17 The delegation of the Argentine Republic re-  quests the Director-General and the heads of the  different Departments to interpret this idea of co-  operation In the light of Unesco's ideals and, availing  themselves of the ample opportunities for action  provided by the Organization's programme and  budget, to satisfy this noble desire, which appears  to be fundamental if the aims of our Organization are  to be fully accomplished,
34,18 Mr, President, fellow delegates, the repre-  sentatives of nearly 100 nations are gathered here.  The amount of effort, of self-denial and of sacrifice  required foi the majority of our countries to achieve  their independence is incalculable. The blood flow-  ing today in so many parts of the world was also  shed by our ancestors for the same ideals, In all  our countries, the recognition of human rights has  been a gradual process and would not have been  possible at all but for renunciation, generosity and  the loss of thousands of ives, The noble task of  educating communities, romoting science and  disseminating culture, £o vital at the beginning of a  new era of human progress, is of such dimensions  that it requires and deserves the same spirit, the  ‘same paasion and as much love as that of building a  nation and seeing that all its people enjoy human  rights.
34.19 We are facing the revival of science as a  religion which, like all religions throughout the ages,  has always needed its apostles and martyrs. May  this be the spirit inspiring the execution of Unesco's  programme,
35.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish);  I thank the delegate of Argentina for his brilliant  speech and I believe I am interpreting the feeling of  the meeting in congratulating him most sincerely on
474  PLENARY MEETINGS  .  his restoration to health, This has permitted him  once again to participate in the work of the Organiza-  tion after some days of illness which prevented him  from attending the first meetings of the Conference,
35,2 I now call upon Mr, Louis François, Chairman  of the Programme Commission, who wishes to say a  few words.
36, Mr, FRANCOIS (France), Chairman of the  Programme Commission, (Translation from the  French);
1 feel I ought to draw your attention to the fact that,  in adopting Chapter 2 of the Report of the Programme  Commission - the one dealing with Natural Sciences -  you will also be adopting the Statutes of the Inter-  governmental Oceanographic Commission, which are  to be found in document 11 C/5 Add, and Corr.,  paragraph 190, By your approval, you will thus con-  firm the Statutes of this Intergovernmental Commission  which has a very great scientific future before it.
37.1 ‘The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish):  Hf there are no other speakers, I shall put the  Chapter to the vote, Chapter 2 is adopted.
37.2 We now come to Chapter 3 - Social Sciences,  Are there any comments? Chapter 3 is adopted,
37.3 We now come to Chapter 4 - Cultural Activities.  Mr. Louis François, Chairman of the Programme  Commission, wishes to make a few observations, and  I now call upon him to do so.
38. Mr. FRANCOIS (France), Chairman of the  Programme Commission, (Translation from the  French):  Mr. President, I think I cought to draw the atten-  tion of the General Conference to resolutions 4,4131  and 4.4132 which do not appear fn the report before  you, but are contained in document 11 C/PRG/27,  pages 8 and 8, This is the Report of the Working  Party on the International. Campaign to Save the Monu-  ments of Nubia, I therefore think that it would be as  well for resolutions 4.4131 and 4,4132 to be read to  the Conference and formally adopted. I therefore re-  quest the President to ask the Secretary of the General  Conference to read cut the text of these two resolutions,  which are to be found in the Report on the activities of  the Working Party concerned,  The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon Mr, Montagnier.
40,1 Mr, MONTAGNIER (Secretary) (Translation  from the French):  Resolution 4,413/1  "The General Conference,  Having considered the information contained in  the Director-General's Report on the International  Campaign to Save the Monuments of Nubia, including  the appeal for international co-operation in this cause  launched by the Director-General, with the authoriza-  tion of the Executive Board, on 8 March 1960;  Approves tae steps taken by the Director-General  and the Executive Board to organize the International  Campaign; and  Authorizes the Director-General;   PLENARY MEETINGS XXX  (a)to continue, in co-operation with the Governments  of the United Arab Republic and the Sudan, the appro-  priate authorities in Member States and, in particular,  national committees set up for this purpose, and the  international non-governmental organizations con-  cerned, the international c impaign inaugurated on
8 March 1960;  (b) to enliat the collaboration of the International  Action Committee set up to assist the Director-  General in the development of this campaign;  (c) to set up, in consultation with the International  Action Committee, an Executive Committee to advise  and comment on the allocation and employment of the  moneys collected and on the co-ordination and execu-  tion of the work;  (d) to continue to receive offers of participation  from governments, public or private institutions and  individuals, and to transmit these offers to the  Governments of the United Arab Republic or the  Sudan, according to the intention specified;  (e) to maintain and administer, in accordance with  the decisions of the Executive Board, a trust fund for  financial contributions;  (f) to continue to glve financial assistance for the  work of the Consultative Committee of Experts set  up by the Government of the United Arab Republic  and the group of experts set up by the Government of  the Sudan; and  (g) to maintain, with the funds collected through the  international campaign and with the authorization of  the Executive Board, the staff and services required  to ensure the success of the international campaign."
40,2 Resolution 4. 413/2  "The General Confererice,  Considering that the bullding of the’ Aswan High  Dam, an imposing work urdertaken by the United  Arab Republic to ensure the economic development  of the country and to increase the well-being of a  hard-working population whose numbers are growing,  is also likely to entail the disappearance, in the  Province of Egypt and in the Sudan, of a number of  monuments and sites whi¢h are among the noblest  memorials of the history of mankind;  Considering the requests addressed to the  Director-General in 195¢ by the Governments of the  United Arab Republic and of the Sudan, with a view  to obtaining, through Un:sco, international assistance  for the safeguarding of these monuments and sites;  Is satisfied with the efforts made for this purpose  as a result of the steps taken by Unesco in collabora-  tion with the Governments of the United Arab Republic  and the Sudan;  Recognizing the importance of contributions calcu-  lated to develop archaeological excavations and  surveys;  Noting with satisfaction that, in response to the  Director-Gensral's a ppeal, institutions in many countries  have already provided appreciable assistance for the  execution of thé sclertifio work requiredfor this purpose;  Reaffirms the extreme urgency of the action under-  taken to ensure that the relics of the past in Nubia,  which form an essential part of the cultural heritage  of mankind as a whole, survive to be admired and  cherished by future generations;  Invites Member States to intensify their efforts  to encourage their institutions, both public and
475  private, as well as any individuals likely to be inter-'  ested, to take an active part in this work of Interna-  tional co-operation; and  Recommends that the Governments of Member  States take all appropriate ateps to ensure their own  participation in this international action, In particular  by means of financial contributions towards the execu-  tion of the work most necessary for the protection of  the threatened monuments, by offers of equipment,  material or technical and scientific staff, or by any  other means which may prove effective,"
41,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish):  I thank the Secretary for reading these resolutions,  If there are no observations on them, they will be  adopted together with the Chapter as a whole. They  are adopted.
41,2 We now come to Chapter 4A - Major Project  on the Mutual Appreciation of Eastern and Western  Cultural Values. But before considering it, I call  upon the Head of the delegation of Brazil, H,E. Mr,  de Berredo Carneiro,
42, Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Transla-  tion from the French);  Mr, President and delegates, as Chairman of the  Working Party on the Monumenta of Nubia, I would  merely like to add a word to the Report which we have  just adopted - a word to strengthen the unanimity of  the Programme Commission when the Report, which  had been unanimously adopted by the Working Party,  was discussed. When we break up tomorrow each of  us must, in his own country or no matter where we  find ouraelves, keep alive the memory of our agree-  ment to save these monuments and to preserve for  future generations this wonderful heritage of the past.  We must all equally try to supply the Director-General  with all the resources he needs in order that this  effort may really ensure the survival of these 6,000  year-old monuments for another 6, 000 years.
43,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish):  I thank the Head of the delegation of Brazil for his  eloquent remarks and hope that in 6, 000 yeara' time,  the work of Unesco in conserving these monuments  will be remembered,
43,2 We now come to Chapter 4A - Major Project  on the Mutual Appreciation of Eastern and Western  Cultural Values. Are there any observations?  Adopted.
43,3 Chapter 5 - Masa Communication, Does any-  one wish to speak? Adopted.
43,4 Chapter 6 - International Exchange Service.  Are there any speakers? Adopted.
43.5 Chapter 7 - Relations with Member States,  Before calling upon Mr, Caballero de Bedoya,  delegate of Paraguay, I should like to ask the Chair-  man of the Programme Commission to give us an  explanation, I call upon Mr. François.
44, . Mr, FRANCOIS (France), Chairman of the  Programme Commission), (Translation from the  French):  I should like to call delegates’ attention to para-  graph 7 on page 123 of the French copy (page 113 of   XXX  the English copy) of the Report of the Programme  Commission, where it is stated that draft resolution
11 C/DR/35 Rev.3, presented by the delegations of  the United Arab Republic and Sudan and relating to  the use of Arabic at regional conferences and the  translation into Arabic of certain Unesco publications,  was adopted, This is quite true, but a serious error  occurred in the text of this resolution during the  printing of the Report, Now, since the resolution ia  extremely important and makes a considerable differ-  ence to the work plan submitted in document 11 C/5,  I consider it essential for it to be included in extenso  in the Report of our Commission, In the final edition  of the Report, therefore, this omission will be re-  paired,
45, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Chairman of the Programme Commission  for his explanation. I call upon H,E, Mr, Caballero  de Bedoya, Head of the delegation of Paraguay.
46,1 Mr, CABALLERO DE BEDOYA (Paraguay)  (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr, President, fellow delegates, it is a fact that  the econcmic inequalities between the developed and  the insufficiently developed countries are continuing  to increase notwithstanding the aid given by the  economically powerful countries. This is proved in  the report recently issued by GATT (General Agree-  ment on Tariffs and Trade).
46,2 ‘The lesson of these events is that the postulate  of automatic equilibrium, which implies the belief  that every change must of necessity lead to a readjust-  ment through the reaction of secondary changes in  the opposite sense, no longer holds water. In fact,  the process is a cumulative one in the same sense  of circular causation, Consequently, there is no such  tendency to spontaneous and automatic stabilization,  Moreover, economists have also pointed out the  importance of non-economic factors in development.  This leads us to think that the failure or setback of  aid plans that have been applied - until now at any  rate - is due to excessive faith in automatic growth,  starting from the injection of foreign capital and, at  the same time, to the ignorance or omission of the  non-economic factors involved in the process, As a  consequence of the cumulative process, an insuffici-  ently developed country, as Myrdal points out, tends  to remain at a level below that required to satisfy  elementary human needs, It cannot break out of the  vicious circle,
46.3 Underdeyelopment is a world-wide and organic  phenomenon with reference, not only to an economic  situation, but also to a human society. The import-  ance of social and psychological factors follows, For  example, it has been observed that, in the under-  developed countries, the search for profit ia not  always decisive in motivating individual behaviour,  contrary to what is the case in advanced forms of  society. When these extra-economic factors are  not taken into account, they hinder or alow down the  development process. It is precisely in the sphere  of these non-economic activities that Unesco's inter-  vention could be effective.
46.4 Teaching is the art of changing society, as  Ortega y Gasset said, and in fact education is a  technique for the transformation, formation and  NS
476  PLENARY MEETINGS  reformation of man. In order to change underdeveloped  men, alter their mentality, combat their dislike of  novelty, create new needs or create what has been  described as a "new deal" of the emotions and transfer  to the countries undergoing development the fruits of  the technological knowledge of the advanced countries,  in all these tasks the intensification of education  seems to be the true solution and thus recourse to our  Organization is inevitable, For it is in a position to  be able to appreciate the real and immediate needs of  the so-called proletarian countries and to be able to  form a tentative opinion on the future.
46,5 Fellow delegates, these economic facts and  these brief, related observations may perhaps not be  untimely with regard to the pressing need for co-  operation between Une sco and the international or  regional bodies speci.lly set up to help the countries  of the uncommitted bloc,
47,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish);
1 thank the honourable delegate for his treatment  of an interesting question of social and economic  philosophy, but I do not believe that we can discuss  such a subject at this level, It will suffice to include  it in the records of the Conference and perhaps the  Economic and Social Council may consider it at a  later stage.
47.2 We now come to Chapter 7 - Relations with  Member States, Are there any observations on this  Chapter? It is adopted,
47.3 We now come to consider the balancing of  Part II of the budget, on page 128 of document
11 C/36 Add. It would appear that, at the moment,  the Conference can only take note of this Chapter.  I believe that this is correct, Mr. Secretary.  ADOPTION OF THE CONVENTION AND RECOMMENDATION  AGAINST DISCRIMINATION IN EDUCATION
47,4 We now come to item 17.1,4 of the agenda -  the Adoption of the Convention and Recommendation  against Discrimination in Education. Some govern-  ments which are in agreement with this resolution  wish to make certain remarks, I call upon Mr, Diéz  Gonzâlez of the delegation of Venezuela,
48,1 Mr, DIAZ GONZALEZ (Venezuela) (Transla-  tion from the Spanish):  Mr, President, the delegation of Venezuela re-  gpectfully submits that, when this draft ie put to the  vota, a separate vote should be taken on Article 8,  to determine whether to Include or exclude the words  in the third line of that article, reading "de una" in  Spanish, "de l'une” fn French, and ‘’of any one" in  English. ;
48.2 The delegation of Venezuela has a very weighty  reason for submitting this request for the considera-  tion of the plenary meeting, since the ability of over
40 States to subscribe to the Convention will depend  upon the way in which this article is worded.
49. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish):  I call upon Dr. Mac Lean y Estenba, Head of the  delegation of Peru.   PLENARY MEETINGS
50,1 Mr, MAC LEAN y ESTENOS (Peru) (Transla-  tion from the Spanish);  Mr, President, this gathering is unanimous in its  sentiment of condemning every act of discrimination  in education, Fortunately, this problem does not  exist in Peru, where there is no discrimination,  either in education or in any other civic activity.  Notwithstanding the unanimity with which this gather-  ing will certainly recéive the draft, there are some  States which have certain objections, not to the sub-  stance of the draft because, as I have said, opinion  is unanimous on this point, but to some of the word-  ing and its implications,
50.2 Some delegations expressed these reserves  when the point was discussed in the Programme  Commission; I recall, among others, those of  Austria, Mexico, Venezuela, Argentina and Nicaragua.  Peru agrees with what has just been said by the  delegate of Venezuela, I remember that this same  attitude was expressed in the Programme Commission  by the Soviet Union with reference to Article 8 and  that the motion was lost by a narrow majority,
50.3 Peru objects to Article 8, which states that  "Reservations to this Convention shall not be per-  mitted". Mr, President, I do not feel authorized  here to deprive my Government, the Government of  Peru, of the exercise of its legitimate right to  formulate such reservations as it may deem appro-  priate when it hag studied this Convention and the  effects of ratifying it, Therefore, although it agrees  fully with the substance and identifies itself abso-  lutely with all those who condemn any discriminatory  trend, for the reasons I have just given Peru will  abstain from voting on this Convention.
51, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish):
1 thank the delegate of Peru for his remarks and  now call upon H.E, Mr. Ammoun, Head of the  delegation of Lebanon.
52,1 Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) (Translation from  the French}:  Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, ladies  and gentlemen, I should like to call the attention of  the General Conference simply to a point of proce-  dure,
52.2 Two speakers have just asked us to proceed  to a separate vote on Article 8, up to but not includ-  ing the words "at the request of any one of the  parties to the dispute". I should like to know it we  are subsequently going to replace these words "at  the request of any one of the parties to the dispute"  by another formula such as "at the request of both  parties”, or if we are going to delete them  altogether, Would you, therefore, Mr. President,  be go kind as to appeal for guidance to the Legal  Adviser, who has already been of such help to us,
80 that he can explain what the legal situation would  be if those words were deleted?  The PRESIDENT (Translationfrom the Spanish):  I have much pleasure in calling upon the Legal  Adviser.
54, Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) (Translation  from the French):
4711  Mr, Preaident, according to the wording of  Article 8-of the Draft Convention, as at present drawn  up, any dispute between two or more States can be  brought before the International Court of Justice at  the request of any one of the parties to the dispute.  The other party is then legally obliged to appear be-  fore the International Court of Justice, If I under.  stand aright the proposal that has been made to delete  the words "of any one", this would leave a text which  would read as follows: ‘'at the request of ste parties  to the dispute", which would imply that the consent  of both parties to the dispute would be required for  the matter to be brought before the Court. That at  least is how I interpret the intention of delegates who  have proposed that the different parts of this article  should be voted on separately,
655. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish);  I call upon Mr, François, Chairman of the Pro-  gramme Commission,
56. Mr. FRANCOIS (France), Chairman of the  Programme Commission, (Translation from the  French):  Mr. President, in connexion with Article 8, 1  should like to inform delegates that the Programme  Commission, after having approved the Draft Conven-  tion itself, adopted a draft resolution concerning  Article 8, which ia to be found in document 11 C/36  Annex I, pages 7 and 8. I think it is very important  to consider this draft resolution at a time when we  are going to decide whether to adopt, reject or amend  the text of the said Article.
57, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spaniah):  I call upon Mr, Diéz Gonzâlez, delegate of  Venezuela,
58,1 Mr. DIAZ GONZALEZ (Venezuela) (Transla-  tion from the Spanish);  Mr. President, I apologize for speaking once  again, but I should like to make the meaning of the  Venezuelan proposal perfectly clear. The Legal  Adviser was right; what we want particularly is to  avold compulsory arbitration.
58,2 Many governments - and among them my own -  recognize the competence of the International Court  of Justice and, like many governments, we agreed to  its Statutes, but we did not sign the optional Protocol  which binds governments to appear before the Court  at the request of only one of the parties, If this  article ia adopted as it stands, governments will be  bound to appear before the Court at the request of  only one of the parties, States like mine cannot parti-  cipate in this Convention, because, even if.the  Venezuelan delegates here were to sign it, the National  Congress, our Parliament, would not ratify it because  the Venezuelan Constitution and legislation would not  allow it. That is why we are asking for a separate  vote to be taken on the two words in the Spanish text  "de una" (English "of any one'') so that th: text  would read "at the request of the parties fo the dis-  pute”, and not refer to the request of any one of them.
58.3 If Article 8 is approved as it stanas, it will  prevent more than 40 States which, as the delegate  of Peru has pointed out, agree with the substance of   XXX PLENARY  the Convention and the principles on which it is based,  from participating therein, a fact which would a'ready  be a form of disorimination against such States.
58.4 We therefore ask that a separate vote be  taken on these two words, With regard to the adop-  tion in the Programme Commission of an additional  protocol, this would not solve the question, since in  any event the article as it stands would remain.
59, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish);  I call upon Mr. René Cassin, delegate of France,
60.1 Mr, CASSIN (France) (Translation from the  French};  Mr, President, I think the Cojference ought to  know the exact implications of tht vote it is going to  take. The members of the Working Party who drow  up the Draft Convention thought Fe their duty to pro-  pose that the International Court of Justice at The  Hague should be competent in cases of disputes be-  tween States, one of which complained of an act of  discrimination violating the Conyention,
60.2 At the beginning of the present session of the  Conference, the French delegalion and others  realized that to go direct to the International Court  of Justice in the case of dispules which might very  well be of a minor nature would involve States in  somewhat heavy expenditure, For this reason our  delegation, understanding the reluctance shown -  which to some extent was legitimate - suggested that  the competence of The Hague Court, although compul-  sory at the summit, should remain subsidiary, with  the result that the States concerned, instead of going  before the Court of Justice, could quite well solve  their disputes by applying to a conciliation committee,  which we thought that Unesco, like all the other major  international organizations, ought to have at its dis-  posal. It is evident that the Programme Commission,  by adopting the amendment to Article 8 which we  introduced with the terms ''failing other means of  settling the dispute”, and by voting for the draft  resolution which you will find immediately after the  Convention, made considerable progress, having to  a large extent diminished the risk of States being  obliged to go to The Hague Court,
60,3 But some of our colleagues thought, as they  had every right to do, that the amendment had not  gone far enough, and they wanted the legal solution  to be agreed upon only in the event of both parties to  the dispute agreeing to submit it to the International  Court of Justice, They do not want to accept the  Court's competence beforehand, in cases where the  dispute cannot be settled by arbitration either before  a body chogen by the two States or by this Committee  which might be set up by Unesco during the next  session of the Conference.
60.4 Here then is the question: either you adopt  the text which the Programme Commission adopted  unanimously, in which case States could use any  means of conciliation available and only apply to the  Court of The Hague if the dispute were really a  serious one; but in such cases the competence of the  Court would be compulsory,
60.5 Or else you adopt the amendment proposed  by the delegate of Venezuela, in which case, even if  a friendly settlement cannot be reached, there is the  ~  MEETINGS  danger that a State might refuse to appear before The  Hague Court; you will then run the risk of being faced  with a dispute which cannot be settled by peaceful  means and might well assume very serious propor-  tions, althovgh in fact we are dealing here with a  technical cénvention which could be the subject of a  judgement given by any Court,
60,6 I should like to inform delegates that, even if  they assambled a majority in favour of modifying the  Commiision's text, the solution proposed by France  in the draft resolution for setting up a conciliation and  good ¢ffices committee would be even more necessary.  And in that event, we should ask for the text of our  draft resolution, which was adopted in anticipation of”  your future vote. to be amended. But it is my hope  that you will vote for the text which the Working Party  adorted unanimously and which was also adopted by  the Programme Commission after very serious dis-  cussion,
61, The PRESIDENT (Translationfrom the Spanish);
62,1 Mr. QUINTANILLA (Nicaragua) (Translation  from the Spanish);  Mr, President, notwithstanding the knowledge and  wisdom of the delegate of France in this matter, there  can be no doubt that we are dealing here with a legal  question and that this would be Impossible for the  representativas of those countries which have not  ratified or signed the Protocol of the International  Court of Justice, making submission to its jurisdic-  tion compulsory, For these representatives, I re-  peat, it is absolutely out of the question to approve  the text in its present form,
62.2 Nicarague has the same reservations with re-  gard to the words mentioned by the delegate of  Venezuela in the text of Article 8, because we are  in exactly the same position.
62,3 The most recent case of boundaries treated.  in international public law is without any doubt the  historic boundary dispute between Nicaragua and  Honduras, recently sejtled by the International Court  at The Hague, a case which, ae you all know, was  lost by Nicaragua, Nicaragua and Honduras had  striven for many years {o submit this question to The  Hague Court, Sometimes Honduras and sometimes  Nicaragua could not agreÿ on going before the Court,  but finally, they signed the Washingion Protocol  which opened the doors foi the dispute to be considered  at The Hague, After two long years of ‘consideration,  the International Court decided that law was on the  side of Honduras and, at that time, Nicaragua,  through its good offices, hastened to implement the  award of King Alfonso XIII. This was done by virtue  of a protocol which permitted it, in accordance with  its Constitution, to accept the jurisdiction of the  International Court.
62,4 We should like to be in à position to vote for  this project - which we consider a splendid one - and  we very much regret that we shall have to abstain  merely for the sake of two words which do not in sub-  stance alter the importance of the resolutions before  us, especially if, as my distinguishad French  colleague has so rightly said, provision is made for  Unesco to set up a Conciliation Committee where
478   PLENARY  the parties to a dispute might be able to reach agree-  ment in the event of any possible controveray over the  application of this instrument,
62,5 Mr, President, I urge this gethering to allow  these 40 countries to vote - for it is not that they do  not wish to, but that they cannot legally approve the  text as it now atande, It sepms to me a pity that be-  cause of the question of compulsory submission to  the Court's jurisdiction - something that has already  been discussed and considered by these 40 States  which have not yet been able to find a solution - we  are going to make the mistake of keeping the text in  its present form, with the resulting abstention of 40  countries, It seems to me that it would be better for  the text to be adopted unanimously, through the dele-  tion of the two words "any one" which, in fhe case of  Nicaragua, are the only obstacle to our voting in  favour,
63.1 The PRESIDENT (Kranslation from the  Spanish):  There are still two speakers on my list, the dele-  gate of the Soviet Union and the delegate of Lebanon,  We shall then proceed to a vote.
63.2 I call upon the delegate of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics, Mr. Evgueniev.
64,1 Mr, EVGUENIEV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Mp, President and fellow delegates, the Soviet  Union delegation expressed itself, both in the Working  Party and in the Programme Commission, against  the inclusion in the Convention of Articles 8, 9 and
12 in the form in which they appear.
64.2 So far as I understood the speech of the dele-  gate of Venezvela, he proposed no amendments but  merely requested the President that the words "of  any one" in Article 8 of the Convention be put to a  separate vote in accordance with Rule 85 of the  Rules of Procedure. And indeed our esteemed  President is apparently putting these words in  Article 8 to a separate vote: in other words, a vote
18 first being taken on the adoption of Article 8 includ-  ing these words, "'of any one" and'then a second  vote on the adoption of Article 8 without them,
64.3 Reaffirming our negative attitude towards  Articles 8, 9 and 12, we have already declared, and  do so now, that these articles limit the sovereign  ,vights of States. They limit the possibllity of States  acceding to the Convention, and if these articles re-  main, and particularly Article 8 in the form it now  has in the Convention, then the States participating  in the Convention will be few in number, whereas  Unesco should strive to ensure that the Conventions  adopted by it are universal in character and are  signed by the maximum number of States.
65. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon H,E. Mr. Ammoun, Head of the  Lebanese delegation.
66.1 Mr, AMMOUN (Lebanon) (Translation from  the French):  Mr, President, I apologize for speaking a second  time in this debate but, as I was the Rapporteur of  the Working Party on the Draft Convention and Recom-  mendation concerning Discrimination in Education,  MEETINGS
1 think that I should make a sort of public self- '  criticism and searching of my conscience, so is to  allow the General Conference to determine exyctly  the scope and consequences of Article 8, -
66.2 I myself had advocated that there should be  some sort of legal coercion; the first group of legal  experts, followed by the Working Party of thy Pro-  gramme Commission, had adopted this Article 8  which provided that one of the parties could ‘irraign  the other before the International Court of The Hague.  It was not necessary for the two parties to égree.
66,3 Today, however, this article causes me a  certain uneasiness, because I do not gee very. clearly  how it could be applied, In addition to all the mia-  glvings and fears which have been most elgquertly  expresased here and to which I shall not refer again,
1 should like to know how, once all signatory States  have adhered to the Convention, one State could  arraign another and why, Will it do so simplybecause  one of its nationals has been the object of discrimina-  tion on the territory of another State? This ie gerious  erough for, if we accept this point of vieyf, the whole  minority problem could be raised in an e: tremely 3  dangerous way. Will one State arraign another solely  because it has been guilty of discrimination? Could  ne State, for example, arraign another’ State by say-  ing: In your country, there is discrimination against  women: I shall therefore arraign you before the Court  of The Hague"? This would be quite possible it  Article 8 remains as it is. And all this seems to me  to be fraught with danger.
66,4 As I myself am playing both Dr. Jekyll and  Mr. Hyde, in my dual rôle as delegate of a Member  State and Rapporteur, I am trying to cut myself in  halt in order to realize the difficulties in which all  this may well involve us,
66.5 At the ILO there is a far more flexible proced-  ure: disputes are settled before a special tribunal,  set up within the ILO. From this point of view, I  cannot say how much I regret that the excellent  French proposal cannot be implemented immediately -  which would have solved the problem once and for all,
66.6 But, in your wisdom, you may decide that this  Article 8 can be amended, as has been requested by  several delegations. If so, I shall do my best, after  having heard President Cassin's excellent statement,  to perauade you finally to adopt the French delegation's  draft resolution, so that we can be certain that, by  the next session of the General Conference, a legal  body will have been set up within Unesco itself in  order to settle this sort of dispute.
67.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish):  Before voting, and although this {s not the function  of the President, I should like to point out to.the  meeting that it would be highly regrettable for a draft  resolution with which so many democratic States art  in agreement to be wrecked on purely formal grounds  which at the same time run countér to the legislation  of these States, as the delegate of Lebanon has so  clearly pointed out, I incline to the opinion that,  should this amendment be accepted, we ahall have  made a first important step towards really establish-  ing a docirine against discrimination in education,
67.2 As far as I can see, the delegate of the Union  of Soviet Socialist Republics has proposed the complete   xxx  amendment of Articles 8, 9, 11 and 12, As this pro-  posal ig furthest rimovéd from the orig'ial, I think  we should vote on it first,
67.3 Icall upon the d;legate of France, Mr. Cassin,
68.1 Mr. CASSIN (France) (Translation from the  French)  Mr, President, I believe that, so far as proced-  ure 18 concerñéd, our Director-General, as repre-  sented by thu Legal ‘Adviser, is right, We should  vote on Ari{cles |-7 inclusive; then we should vote  on Article 8, on Article 9 and on Article 12, which  certain delegations wish to amend or delete, It is  normyl that each delegation should have its proposal  put %0 the vote.
6R.2 But since we have not yet proceeded to the  vote, please allow me to toll delegates that the real  “ problem with which they are faced is whether, when  States sign a Cotiventica they intend it to be binding  or not; if they intend it and their undertakings to be  binding, the sign the Convention; if they do not  ‘really want to be bound there'is an option, in the draft  submitted t6 you; in fevour of the Recommendation,  That being so, Siates know what they are undertaking.  I make no secret of the fact that it would be very  risky for the futire of international co-operation to  sign a Convention allowing for the possibility of ita  not being regarded as binding. Any Convention which  te not binding is far more dangerous for peace than
1 real recommendation which is honestly stated to be  a "recommendation",
6.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish):  We shall vote on the draft in sections, beginning  with Articles 1-7 inclusive, °  {The vote was taken by a chow of hands.)
69,2 Articles 1-7 are adopted by 59 votes in favour,  non against and 3 abstentions.
69,3 We shall now vote on Article 8, in three dis-  tinct sections, firstly from the beginning: "Any  dispute which may arise between any two or more  States..." down to the words: " ...a peticlôn" in  Spanish, "à la requête" in French, and "at the re-  quest"! in English.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
69.4 This part is adopted by 59 votes in favour,  none agninst and 3 abstentions.
69.5 We shall now vote on the amendment to delete  the words "any one", 1 think that in this case a roll-  call vote would be better.
69.6 I call upon Mr. Lavrichenko, delegate of the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
70, Mr; LAVRICHENKO (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republica) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr. President, you have begun the vote and have  already concluded the first halt, You have put to the  vote the {uestion of who is in favour of retaining the  words "any one" in the second part of Article 8, As  the question is already being voted on, we ask you to  continue the voting, that is, to vote on the question of  , who is ajjatnst and who abstains.
71.1 The PRESIDENT (Tranalationfrom the Spanish):  We shall now vote onthe proposal to delete the words  "any ons",
480  PLENARY MEETINGS  .  (The vote was taken by a show of hand.)
71.2 The proposal to delete the word j"" any one’ is  adopted by 24 votes to 20, with 1 abstention,
71.3 We shall now vote on the remainder of Article
8,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
71,4 This part of Article 8 is adopked by 54 voles  in favour, none against and 3 abstentions,
71.5 We shall now vote on the whole of Article &  as amended. I shall ask the Secretary to read it, no  that there may be no doubt in your minds.
72, Mr, MONTAGNIER (Secretary) (Translation  from the French):  Mr. President, here is the text of Article 8  amended; "Any dispute which may arise between any  two or more States Parties to this Convention concern-  ing the interpretation or application of this Convention,  which is Hot settled by negotiation,shall, at the re-  quest of tha parties to the dispute, be referred, fail-  ing othet means of settling the dispute, to the  International Court of Justice for decision",  {rhe vote was taken by a show of hands.)
73.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish):  Article 8 as amended is adopted by 59 votes in  favour, with 2 abstentions.
73,2 We now have to vote on Articles 9-19, I shall  ask for a separate vote on Article 9, to which we  shall proceed immediately.
73.3 Icall on Mr. Evguenlev, delegate of the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
74.1 Mr, EVGUENIEV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translaticn from the Russian):  Mr. President, we have also asked for a separate  vote on Article 9 and Article 12 of the old draft,  which now appears as Article 13.
74.2 In other words, wo are asking for a ceparate  vote on Articles 9 and 13,
75.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish);  We shall now procted to vote on Article 9,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
15.2 Article 9 as it appears in the document is  tdopted by 41 votes to 9, with 8 abstentions.
75.3 We can now proceed to vote on Articles 10,
11 and 12, as there are some objections to Article
13,  {The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
78.4 Articles 10, 11 and 12 are adopted by 61 votes  in favour, none against and 1 abstention.  %5,5 We shall now vote cn Article 13.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
15.6 Article 13 ie adopted by 49 votes to 7, with
1 abstention. -
75.7 We shall now vote on Articles 14-19 (to the  end of the document), .  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
75.8 The Draft Convention against Discrimination  in Education is adopted by 62 votes in favour, none  against and 2 abstentions,
75.9 We shall now vote on the whole of the Conven-  tion against Discrimination in Education.   PLENARY  (The vote was taken by a show of hands, )
76.10 It is adopted by 60 votes in favour, none  against and 2 abstentions,
75,11 I call upon Mr. Philippovich, delegate of  Austria.
76. Mr, PHILIPPOVICH (Austria) (Translation  from the French}:  Mr, President, I should like to explain the  Austrian delegation's vote. Austria abstained from  voting on the Draft Convention in the Working Party  of the Programme Commission, In spite ç£ the -  reservations which [t expressed to the Programme  Commission, the Austrian delegation is glad to have  been able, on the instructions of its Government, to  vote for the Conventifr! and the Recommendation as  a whole, thus giving proof of the spirit of cloas  international co-operation by which Austria is  inspired.
77.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish):  We shall now take a separate vote on the draft  resolution concerning Article 8 of the Draft Conven-  tion (document 11 C/36 - Annex I, pages T and 8)  with the amundment to Article 8 already adopted.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
77.2 It is adopted by 54 votes in favour, none  against and 3 abstentions.
77.3 We shall now consider the Draft Recommenda-  tion against Discrimination in Education (dycument
11 C/36, Annex I, pages 8-12).
77.4 Any observations? Adopted,  ¢  ADOPTION OF THE RECOMMENDATION CONCERNING THE MOST  EFFECTIVE MEANS OF RENDERING MUSEUMS ACCESSIBLE TO  EVERYONE ;
11.5 We now come to item 17,4,1 of the agenda -  Adoption of the Recommendation concerning the most  effective means of rendering museums accessible to  everyone (document 11 C/36, Annex II),
77.6 Are there any observations? Adopted,  ADOPTIOH OF THE THIRD REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE  COMMISSION, P14 à E - APPROPRIATION RESOLUTION
77.7 We shall now consider the Third Report of  the Admi ‘strative Commission: Part E - Draft  Appropriation Resolution and Draft Appropriation  Table for the financial period 1961-1862, I call on  the Rapporteur, Mr. Dovey.
78.1 Mr, DOVEY (Udted Kingdon), Rapporteur  of the Administrative Commission;  Mr. President, ladies end gentlemen, this is the  last of the documents which I have the honour to  present on behalf of the Administrative Commission  for consideration by the General Conference. The  Conference will recall that when the third report of  the Commission vas presented, I indicated that  Part E dealing with the Appropriation Reaolution  would be presented later. It is now before you as  document 1! C/48 Addendum 1. The Confsrence  will appreciate that it is appropriate, and indeed  MEETINGS
481  xxx  essential, that this resolution should not be presented  until the Conference has considered the Report of the  Programme Commission,
78.2 An the document before you indicates, the  Administrative Commission considered the Appro-  priation Resolution in two stages, in the firet of which  {t discussed and made some amendments to the word-  ing of the resolution, und in the second of which it  considered the whole of the resolution, including the  appropriation table, with figures added, The record  of the second stage of the discussions is shown In  paragraphs 505 to 510 of the document béfors you,  and in this connexion, I mvst rep 14 that a part of  the text in paragraph’ 508 i128 bed on ted. The  missing words come after the word “abatentions" in  the third line of paragraph 508 in tle English text.  At this point the following addition should be made;  "Part V and by 20 votes In favour, 10 against and 11  abstentions", I will read for the benefit of the Confer-  ence the full text of the paragraph with the missing  words added, "Before agreeing to the figures in  paragraph (a) of Section 1 of the Appropriation Resolu-  tion, the Commission first considered and approved  by 24 votes in favour, 6 against and 9 abstentions  Part V, and by 20 votes in favour, 10 against and 11  abstentions the figures for Parts I to IV, as modified  by the proposal of the French delegate to distribute  pro rata to these four parts the reduction of $208,320",  I apologize for this omission in the text before you.
78.3 The words in question are of some importance,  since without them the paragraph does not indicate  that a number of delegations requested a separate  vote on Part V in order that they might emphasize  their attitude to the question oi a fourth Headquarters  building.
78.4 I must also report a minor error, which  occurs in the English text only, in the table of figures  in paragraph (a) of the resolution, in the line opposite  "Major Project on Scientific Reseurch on Arid Lands",  In the first column of figures, the figure should read
679,179 and not 697, 179,
78,5 Apart from the points which I have just made,  the Conference will wish to note the decision of the  Cominission on the question of spreading over the budget  the reduction 2oquiredin order to bring the total for Parts  I to IV down to the limit of the provisional budget ceiling  adopted bythe Conference atanearlier stage. The full  text of the resolution adopted by the Commission runs  from page 3 to the end of the document before you. I  have the honour on behalf of the Commission to recom-  mend its adoption by the General Conference.
79.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish}:  The Third Report, Part E, of the Administrative  Commission is adopted.
78.2 It is aly. jady fairly late and I do not think that  we have either the time or the energy to continue with our  considerationof the agenda. We shall have to leave  some work for the meeting tomorrow morning. How-  ever, I have some requeststo speuk, for example,  from the delogate of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics. Itherefurecallupon Mr. Lavrichenko.
80. Mr, LAVRICHENKO (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian);  Mr, President and fellow delegates, we voted in  favour of this docu.uent but feel it necessary to state   XXX PLENARY  here, as in the Commission, that the Soviet Union,  as in the past, {8 not paying and will not pay for the  followers of Chiang Kal-shek, who represent no one,  Secondly, we are opposed to the construction of a  fourth new bullding for Unesco, as we think that the  Secretariat machine is too big and that the aim should  be to reduce rather than expand the administrative  apparatus, We are naturally opposed therefore, to  Part V of the proposed programme and budget which  relates to expenditure for the building.
81,1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish):  I thank tho delegate of the Soviet Union, It seems  clear to me that the meeting has already adopted the  resolutions contained in the four parts of this docu-  ment, 1,e, the Regular programme, the Technical  Assistance programme, the Special Fund and the  Special Account for the Unesco programme, and  other funds,
81,2 I call upon the delegate of the Ivory Coast,  Mr, Assoi.
82,1 Mr, ASSOI (Ivory Coast) (Translation from  the French}:  Mr. President and fellow delegates, the Republic  of the Ivory Coast, which has been a member of  Unesco since October 1960, is happy to begiu its  career within this extremely humanitarian Organiza-  tion.
82,2 It is a good sign that, ever since it achieved  independence, the Ivory Coast has been able to take  part in the work of this Organization in an atmos-  phere of calm and sweet reasonableness,
82,3 The problums which disturbed the Ivory Coast  have been happily solved, since we are here with full  rights as a sovereign and independent country. And  it must be recognized that this atmosphere is due to  the far-sighted attitude of France, who, so far as we  are concerned, has shown a wisdom worthy of her  history.
82.4 . My Government has doné me the great honour  of allowing me to write a page of our national history  ‘with you, for over and above all political quarrels  and economic and financial interests which upset the  world and threaten to destroy it - and our whole  civilization with it - Unesco's activities are carried  on in anatmosphere of peace, mutual recognition,  understanding and political appeasement which we  must not lose sight of.
82,5 We are the vigilant guardians of world culture,  of human values which ouglit to be imperishable and  without which the world would be nothing more than  an inextricable chaos. We know that there must be  considerable financial contributions from the whole  world in order to succeed in making up for the back-  wardness which has been forced upon us over the  centuries by a number of insidious factors and con-  _ ditions,
82.6 We know that we need the help of our brothers  in other more favoured States, But you can be sure  that the Ivory Coast will give the fullest possible  help to Unesco's activities, for the rôle of States like  ours in process of development should not be confined  to the passive rôle of perpetual begging. We want to  place ail our human and cultural resources at the  service of Unesco and our brothers throughout the
482  MEETINGS  world, This 1s the spirit in which the activities of *  the Ivory Coast will be conducted, for we are fully  resolved to make our contribution, modest perhaps,  but full of faith, to Unesco,
82,7 No description of the immensity of our re-  quirements can be exaggerated, for they are so many  and complex that we are obliged to draw up an order  of priority. We cannot repeat too often that, so far  as we are concerned in the Ivory Coast, education in  all {ts forms is our first concern, Here, it is obvious  that our main problem is how to reoruit enough teach-  ers, May I take this opportunity of paying tribute to  France as represented by our eminent colleag':¢, Mr,  Heszel, who always meets our constant requests with  so much effiatency and calmness, But no matter how  conslderabls auch bilateral aid jnay be, it should be  supplemented in accordance with Unesco's ideals, by  multilateral assistance. And we know that we can  count on your understanding, my dear colleagues, for  it has been enough to attend meetings of the Programme  Commission to have a very clear idea of the scale of  world generosity and the interest which you taks in us.
82.8 We know that your words were too sincere to  remain without result: the proof of this is the substan-  tial material assistance that you are giving and the  many fellowships which you have just offered. For all  of that, many thanks, Mr. Director-General and my  dear colleagues,
82,9 This session has been one of apprenticeship  and observation for us, I can assure you that we have  learnt a great deal and that from now onwards we  shall be able to collaborate very effectively with  Unesco, particularly owing to our permanent presence  at Headquarters and through oyr own National Com-  mission which will shortly be set up. Such participa-  tion has already taken concrete form. At this very  moment, a group of experts, convened by the  Organization 18 meeting in our capital of Abidjan and  discussing the problem of the teaching of natural  sciences.
82.10 I shall conclude, Mr, President, by offering  Unesco a double wedding present; we bring it, firstly  all the problems raised by our presence here, which  can but make its activities more sublime and, secondly,  the immensity of the horizons revealed through the  window which our recent admission has thrown open  onto a little known world. It is our dearest wish  that all our friends from Member States may come  and visit us as often as possible, so as to get to krow  us better,
83. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the dalegate of Somalia, Mr. Syad.
84,1 Mr. SYAD (Somalia);  Mr. President, fellow delegates, on behalf of the  delegation of the Republic of Somalia, we thank the  Director-General and the Secretariat for having  facilitated our task during these 31 cold days in Paris.  We also thank the Member States who, at this eleventh  session of the General Conference of Unesco, have  done so much for our continent, We wish especially  to thank the delegation of Yugoslavia for the  generosity of its thought for Africa and all those  who replied so spontaneously to the appeal for  Africa and the African peoples who are thirsting  for education,   PLENARY
84,2 It makes us uneasy, however, to hear the  Ethiopian delegate speak of granting fellowships to  Somalis. If these fellowships exist, the students  come fru,.n Ethiopian-controlled Somaliland, and the  statement of the Ethiopian delegation is motivated by  the desire to confuse and to make propaganda, We  sincerely hope that-the fellowships granted to African  students will not bear the stigma of propaganda, How  can such a small country as Abyasinia, Ethiopia  since 1945, suffering from a feudal régime and asking  for fellowships, grant such fellowships if not for  propaganda? Charity begins at home,
84,3 The statement made by our Ministex on 26  November was an ohjective one and was intended to  emphasize our people's thought and will, The Somall  personality and culture cannot be denfud, and it is  not the Lion of Judah, with the help of those who want  our people to be divided, who will keep our people  separated, No one can deny the culture of any people  which fs based on one language, one religion and one  race. It was in reference to the situation of the last  world war, when all the Somali territories were  under British administration, that Lord Cecil Rhodes  said: "and so the only large part of Africa which 18 .  radically homogeneous has again been split",
84,4 To conclude, Mr. President, I would ask any-  one interested in knowing our situation better to  refer tothe latest edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica,  page 964, which states that: "The finland boundaries  give a total area of about 425,000 square miles, of  which 120, 000 are in Ethiopian- controlled Somaliland",  This international gathering is not an arena for  politics, nevertheless I am appealing to you my  fellow delegates, in the name of 2,000,000 people  who are denied their culture, who are denled thelr  will to be united with*thetr brothers. We ask you,  inthe name of culture itself, for the self-determination  of those people, our brothers.
85, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 thank the delegate, I should like to point out to  him, however, that items which are not included in  the agenda should not be raised here; we should all  like to see a strong apirit of co-operation and frater-  nity among the peoples of Africa who are awakening  to a new phase of their history with so much enthus-  fasm. I calluponthe delegate of Ethiopia, Mr. Neqniq.
86.1 Mr, NEQNIQ (Ethiopia):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be  brief. I regret that I have asked to speak twice and  I regret also that, at the time when a greater num-  ber of African countries have joined this great  Organization, there is discord among Africans, I  thought that this was a day of gcodwUl, a time of  generosity, but at the end discord has arisen, In my  earlier speech I merely mentioned that I regretted  the fact that such a statement as the one to which I  referred had been made by the honourable delegate  of Somalia. I think there are two points which must  be explained; one is a question of boundary and the  other is a question of banditry in the Horn of Afsica,  Is Unescu a place to discuss this question? It {8 not.
86,2 In regard to the fellowships that have been  mentioned, I myself, as the Director-General of  Education, every day recelved students from the  Republic of Somalia; I know them by nama, I know  their numbers, I know where they are studying - this  is not a false propaganda. If any of the fellowships  that we offer to any of the African countries are not  acceptable to them, then Somalia might withdraw her  students, but I do not think that such action would  coincide with the spirit even of the Government of  Somalia.
86,3 In conclusion, Mr. President, may I borrow  the wise words of the honourable delegate of Mali?  "What we need in Africa is unity and solidarity and  not discord and animosity",
87. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Before closing the meeting, I call upon the Director-  General.
88, The DIRECTOR-GENERAL (Translation from  the French);  I merely wanted to suggest that the Conference  should meet tomorrow morning at 10 a.m. instead of
10,30 a.m,, and that the meeting should start on time.
1 believe that this will be the best way of ensuring that  our work can be completed, as planned, at a single  meeting tomorrow morning,
89, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  The meeting is closed, ’  The meeting rose at 7,15 p.m,