24 November 1960, at 10,45 a,m,  President: Mr, Giacinto BOSCO (Italy)  Later: Mr. Phya SALVIDHANNIDES (Thailand) "  CONTENTS  General discussion of the Reports of the Director-General  (eyntinued)  GENERAL DISCUSSION OF THE REPORTS OP  THE DIRECTOR.GENERAL (continved)
1.1 The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  The sixteenth plenary meeting of the General Con-  ference is open. The gencral discussion of the re-  ports of the Director-General will be continued,
1.2 The first speaker on the list is H.E, Mr, Picôn  Salas, Head of the delegation of Venezuela, whom I  now call upon,
2.1 Mr. PICON SALAS (Venezuela) (Translation  from the Spanish); :  Mr, President, fellow delegates, whenever we,  as representatives of the Member States, attend a  meeting of Unesco; we remember the inspiring words  written in London in 1945, when the world was awaken-  ing from a cruel nightmare and hoped to establish an  era of human brotherhood and mutuel understanding.  Unesco wus the Utopia of concord, symbolizing the  yearning for a truly world-wide civilization, an ideal  which has been pursued by many, from the philosophers  of the Eighteenth century enlightenment, the men who  signed the Act of Philadelphia in 1776 - the first .  declaration in history of a decolonized country - to  the outstanding leaders and thinkers of modern times,
2,2 Although mankind has indeed progressed, at  least in the few centuries separating us from the  birth of modern science, the discovery of unknown  regions and the great political struggles for freedom  and tolerance, perhaps the major problem at this  stage is how to rationalize the course of history so  that, in future, men may be spared so mich useless  pain, such cruel and irrational perils. In the past,  international contacts existed only in crusades of  race against race, of dominant nation against weak,  exploited colony; but civilization will have taught us  nothing 1? we fail to substitute for the old wars and  massacres a new system of international understand-  ing and co-operation, We shall be forced to proclaim  the downfali of Man if progress in technology and  science - s0 impressive in our times - is not linked  with moral values, Death or salvation - such are the  alternatives facing the human race,
2,3 At this General Conference of Unesco, we have  just been joined hy a group of new nations from the  African continent which have emerged from colonial
269  +..." .., 259  oppression and are now assuming their own responsi-  bilities as national States. I have great pleasure in  welceming them on behalf of my country and my  Government. Ibelieve that this voice of Africa, to  which we have not hitherto listened - or not wished  to listen - this experience of Africa - sometimes as  ancient as the most beautiful legends of mankind -  will be of inestimable value in the discussion and  exchange of cultural experiences of which Unesco is  the symbol. History is no longer the prerogative of  a few privileged powers, but is beginning to embrace  the whole of God's kingdom,
2,4 The Latin American nations, of which: my  country i8 one, proclaimed their independence a  hundred and fifty years ago and, although during our  period of development we have lived through many  difficult times, we have emerged on every occasion  with greater faith in the democratic system of  government, in political freedom and in that other,  far nobler form of creative freedom, which consists  in affirming the sovereignty of conscience and the  peaceful struggle for human redemption that can be  secured only through education and culture, We are  thus at one with the ideals and programmes of Unesco  and we gladly welcome the entry into the Organisation  of new friends and new fellow workers in the vital  cause of world peace.
2.5 Because we believe in Unesco and consider it  invaluable, I should like to mention here dur hope  that as we work together to develop and improve. its  activities, it will function inore and more efficiently  and will never fall short of our expectations. The  Organization has had to face the tremendously swift  challenges of the contemporary world. We are not  exactly living in a restful age, and we have not yet  overcome the anguish and anxiety which those who  signed the enthusiastic declaration of 1045 hoped to  banish for eyer. World peace and peace of, mind are  not yst guaranteed. Events have begun to move at a  tremendous speed and it is impossible for the mem-  bers of the Executive Board, meeting twice a year  and for this large biennial gathering, often faced .  with an overwhelming mass of documents, to reflect  with sufficient serenity and calm on the entire policy  of Unesco and the aid whichit can offer the world, ’
4.6 ‘The origimlity of our Organisation, dstinguish-  ing it from any other international agency, past or   xvi PLENARY MEETINGS  present, resides in the fact thet ite goal is to seek  not so much a balance of political power as a fine,  deep-rooted balance of cultures, It is not through  power or the passive docility of the weak before the  strong that we must strive to achieve world peace  and peace of mind, which 1s even more vulnerable.  The Unesco experiment is potentially unique and  extraordinary because, for the first time in the his-  tory of the world, an effort is being made to seek  concord through education and culture and not to im-  .pose it through the prestige of a country or a group  of countries or by the silent pressure of force. The  task of Unesco is to convince rather than to cohquer.
2.7 Although the nations contribute to the Organiza-  tion's budget amounts varying according to their  revenue and potentialities, we shall achieve nothing  if we do not buse ourselves on the Christian concept  of the equality of all peoples and the democratic  representation of all cultures, It would be highly  regrettable if even here, where we are concerned  with spiritual values, we were to divide ourselves  into small and great, weak and ‘powerful.
2,8 Not only must ignorance be eradicated so that  reasoning and knowledge may free men dnd ehable  them better to discharge their duty as human beings,  but go also must that pride be abolished which makes  a man believe that he can teach and redeem othérs,  aloof in his arroganéé and disdaining the fellowship  they may offer, Europe, which was, and still is, a  continent in the vanguard of scientific and technical  progress, has at times erred or the side of arrogance -  for instance when it thought it natural, in the evil,  bygone days of colonialism and imperialism, that  other distant nations should work, passive and  humiliated, for ita prosperity, and that culture was  the precious heritage of Elropeans and should be  reserved for them alone,"
2,9 Other sectarian groups have attempted to substi-  tute biological for historical arguments in referring  for example, to superior and inferior races and dis-  playing a sort of Messianic white man's aggressive-  ness in distant larids aiid continents; Fortunately  this intoxication with pride and power which contami-  nated certain national groups is already showing signs  of disappearing,’ and the development of the social  sciences of ethnology and anthropology have corrected  that short-sighted view of history which, away back  in the Eighteenth century, was attacked by, minds as  lucid as those of Montesquieu in his "Lettres  persanes' ‘and Voltaire iri his very edifylrig tales. I  come from a continent where we have fought for the  equality of all its inhabitants, where we have asserted  the value of our mixed blood and where a Mexican  priest, the Jesuit Father Pedro Jogé Marquez, wrote  in the Eighteenth century these words which seem to  forestall Uneaco's programme: "Any language,’  however alien it may appear, can by virtue of culture,  be as wisé a8 Greek and any people tan becomé as  cultured as those who believe they have attained the  highest level of culture. True philosophy does not"  recognize incapacity in any man, whether he be born  black or white, or whéther he be educated ‘at the poles  or in the troptes. Given an appropriate education,  men of all climés are capable of everything".
2.10 Nowadays it is almost a commonplace to refer  to the needs of thé underdeveloped countries. It isa  fact that, from the technological and economic points’  N 260  of view, some nations are more favoured than others;  there are some where the working and production  methods used are still most archaic and where  general poverty does not yet enable, the people to eat,  be educated or enjoy the comfort and security of the  richer countries, Moreover, there is a changing  acale of levels among those lumped together as  "underdeveloped regions", But the experts sent by  the international organizations, with the best of  intentions, to help and teach, would be making a  very dangerous mistake if they were to think that,  in those countries, the people's brains are under-  developed and that technical backwardness in any  land is in direct ratio to lack of intelligence and  sensibility.
2,11 1 have sometimes ventured to #ay - and I  believe it should be repeated - that the experiment of  exchanging experts among all the regions of the  world will be of the greatest value for the mutual  appreciation of civilizations, because although tech-  nicians can teach a great deal in the countries to  which they are sent, they have ‘also to get to know  each country's wealth of customs and ancestral  traditions; which are not always mentioned in books  or included In statistics, "To become an Indian  oneself", to enjoy the foreign language, discover  everything it can express, to know and love the  people - this was the advice proffered over four  hundred years ago by one of the noblest figures in  the Christian missionary movement in America,  Friar Toribio Benavente, who exchanged his Spanish  name for the Indian name of Motolinia which, in the  Tlascalan language, means humility and poverty,  What a splendid example, what a wonderful patron  saint for Technical Assistance!
2,12 And if the Latin Americans have so much  respect for Humboldt, the second discoverer of the  region, geographically speaking, and a very thorough  investigator of its social problems, which even now  are still very much alive, It is becausé this great  scientist and poet knew how io use in his books not  only the methods which hé had inherited from Europe,  but also the wisdom born of experience, imparted to  him by the miners and muléteers of Mexico, the  boatmen of the Orinoco, the shepherds of the Andes  and the fishermen of the Venezuelan coast; whom he  grew to know so well. Do all the experts ‘sent on  mission to distant countries by the Technical Assis-  tance agencies have such modesty and charity - there
18 no other way of describing it - as the famous  missionary friar, or the tfemendous human under-  standing of Humboldt? ‘
2,13 Mr, President; my Government welcomes  the good results achieved by Unesco in these years  of persevering work, and the projécts in course of  execution which are 80 clearly described by the  Director-General in the report before us, More-  over, the Proposed Programme and Budget for
1961-1962 reflects a more satisfactory combination  and functional integration of activities and résourcès.  While it is desirable for the Organization to go on  working within the priority areas defined by the  General Conference at its eighth session in  Montevideo in 1954, there should also be a certain  renewal of the special activitiés, so that Unesco can  interpret and respond quickly to the urgent educa-  tional, ‘scientific and cultural needs arising in various   PLENARY MEETINGS  parts of the world. Not only do the ‘Major Projects -  on the Extension of and Improvement of Primary  Education in Latin America, on Scientific Research  on Arid Lands and on Mutual Appreciation of Eastern  and Western Cultural Values - which are extraordinarily  broad in scope, deserve thé constant sympathy and  approval of my Government, but algo all those other  projects which offéi new opportunities for educational  and acientific co-operation to the whole of mankind,
2.14 We are impresséd by the excellence of the  report on the needs of Tropical Africa in primary,  gecondary and technicul education and the resolution  concerning the overall planning of edication Ir the  Arab States, The process of decolonization which  the African countries are now undergoing calls for  the speedy education of their peoples so that they can  make the most of their new-found freedom, The pro-  ject for the Arab States is an extremely interesting  attempt to consider education as a vital concomitant  of the economic development and productivity of an  entire region.
2.15 Our African and Arab friends, our friends in  continents other than ours will feel that we share  their needs and that the desire to improve the human  lot is not confined to dur part of the globe or to our  cultural and linguistic region, but applies to the  whole world; it 13 the desire to see all peoples  fraternizing in a tremendous movement of solidarity  and intercommunication.
2.16 In a growing Organization like ours, there is  a need for constant review of the efficiency of its  plans and their submission to unblased analysis.  The danger with all such organizations is that there  is no proper balance between the ever-fertile creative  spirit and the tenacity and persistence required to  put plans into practice, for in the immortal words  of the New Testament, "the letter killeth, but the  spirit giveth life".
2.17 The worst that could happen to Unesco would  te for it to become compressed and stultified by  routine, never seeking to breathe the fresh air out-  side and see what new’ things the world has to offer.
2,18 Although officials are indispensable, so also  are outside sciéntists, humanists, teachers, writers,  and artists, who at times upset contimity and estab-  lished practice by introducing new ideas, or courteous  but disconcerting criticism.
2,19 ~ Furthermore, in connexion with the functiori-  ing of our headquarters, some forms of internal co-  operation could be most useful and profitable, Dele-  gates of Member States have sométimés complained  that certain services tend to hedge themselves in  with bureaucratic rigidity and do not always listen to  such comments ag we may offer them. - We receive  from the Organization - even on subjects which are  of direct interest to us - material which is often  presented in final form without any thought that we  might wish to make comments and recommendations  regarding the preparation of a project bearing on the  area which we know best. To put it frankly, our  representation at Unesco and the noble mission en-  trusted to us by our govérnrients have little meaning  if we are expected merely to deal with matters of  ceremonial or to write polite, harmless bureaucratic  memoranda, Our peoples are suffering, asking, claim-  ing or hoping far better things, while we remain half  withdrawn, or locked inthe conditioned reflex of routine.
2,20 We wish and must be able to speak and express  our opinions within the Organization and not merely  on formal occasions such as the General Conference.  We should be in direct touch with some of the Organiza-  tion's services, not only through documents which  have already been finalized, but through personal  interviews which are far more creative, Therefore  the initiative taken by Mr. Nannetti before resigning  his post as Director of the Bureau of Relations with  Member States deserves our support and understand-  ing, because at several discussions and meetings,  which ought to be continued throughout the year, we  should be able to follow Unesco's daily activity closely  instead of seeing it from outside as an imposing °  superstructure from which we are sometimes cut off  by enormous barriers of paper, The representatives  of Member States are apt, in the long run to grow  rather weary and disillusioned with the Organization,  if they are treated merely with the politeness due to  the guests at a party.
2.21 Overwhelmed as it is with dota, the Execu-  tive Board should rely more on its Commissions,  and give them more responsibility, devoting itself  in a calmer atmosphere to the study of what seems  of primary importance: the general policy to be :  followed by Unesco and the means of adjusting its  work plan to changing and compelling circumstances,  The Board's advisory function with regard to the  filling of senior posts by the Director-General is now  purely formal and I would not venture to say that, in  this very complicated matter, a due linguistic and  cultural balance between the countries represented  is always preserved.
2,22 Asa writer and teachér of Spanish, I regret  that this language is not yet sufficiently represented  in the Director category. Buffeted by history for a  considerable tire and with a rich experience of good  fortune and adversity alike, the Spanish-speaking  peoples of America did not fear intermarriage, which  is a conciliatory factor, and their books in the  Sixteenth century gave a new anthropological view of  mankind such as would be difficult to find in Euro-  pean literature, - The noble moral tradition of its  humanists gave birth to à new ideal of human harmony  at a time when all Europe was rent by anarchical  dynastic wars, and the most outspoken criticism of  colonialism and slavery was expressed by writers  like Las Casas y Vitoria, Diego de Avendaho and  Alonso de Sandoval - men educated in the New World.  Is it generally known that the first great book de-  nouncing the slavery imposed on the peoples of  Africa and the horror of the slave trade was written  in what was then a tiny Latin American town, .  Cartegena de Indias, and as long ago as 16207 It  was Alonso de Sandoval who succeeded in learning  several African languages and penetrating the  mysiery of their cultures, one of the first and great-  est of our Africanists, a true pioneer in the study  of the manifold aspects of culture,
2,23 But although we may criticize small details  in the functioning of Unesco, this does not imply  any lessening or cooling off of our faith in the  Organization. We want it to work for the promotion  of peace in the minds of men with increasing effici-  ency, speed and coherence, We would like it to  continue to give every possible assistance to the  multitudes of human beings all over the world in   XVI PLENARY  need of that basic intellectual tool known as the alpha.  bet, .We want Unesco to help by sending its most  qualified experts to, bring that freedom which is ob  tainable through skilled work, science, culture and  techiology and is so eagerly desired by countless  men and women at present plunged in {gnorance and  poverty. Nor, in these troubled times must it neglect  its duty to supply intellectual and moral leadership,  to promote int “national understanding and friendship,  through the fre..t expressions of thé numan mind, It  must be above the criticism of nations, even the  smallest, the most forgotten and the most helpless.  It must not submit to the dangerous manoeuvres of  power or political domination in a sphere in which  the aim is to bring cultures into friendly contact, It  must seek the co-operation of outstanding individuals  without prejudice or discrimination of any kind, This  is its plain duty at a time id history when truth and  mutual understanding alone can bring together the  divided and faint-hearted human family,
2.24 Unesco not only has much to teach the countries  where it carries out its activities, but it has also  much to learn from them of their rich and varied  forms of civilization; it can show itself worthy of an  immense heritage which has sometimes declined and  gone underground, crushed beneath the heel of the  conqueror in the wars and wearisome stories of  domination and power which are sometimes described  as world history. Mey Unescu House be the scene of  friendly intercourse where, the representatives of  every language and every group - as the Mexican  Eighteenth century priest said - will realize that, by  means of education and culture, every ration can  attain the level of the most advanced. We must re-  vive here our faith in mankind.
3. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon H.E, Mr, Charles Ammoun, Head of  the Lebanese delegation.
4,1 Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) (Translation from the  French):  Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, ladies and  gentlemen, there comes a time in the lives of men  when they reflect upon their past, not merely for  pleasure, but to learn something from it, to try and  imagine the future more clearly. And today it is to  your imagination, that wayward sprite - though lese  wayward than one thinks - that I would appeal,
4,2 Let us apply to our Organization that moment  of reflection, of self-criticism and of truth, The  object of this brief review of the past is to try to  bring out the general philosophy and the main lines  of the policy governing our activity.
4.3 When it was founded, Unesco proceeded gropingly  and in some disorder - nothing is so much like dis-  order as organized orcer - to scek its way; and it  chose the most ambitious: to deal with every type of  human activity falling within the range of education,  science and culture, .
4.4 It came into a legacy - inherited from the Inter-  national Institute of Intellectual Co-operation. But  while the latter was designed primarily for !ntellec-  tual circles, Unesco decided to concentrate on the  masses, and there, it had to start from scratch, The  original line became inflected: intellectual circles  were to some extent neglected, in order that Unesco
262  MEETIROS  might embark \: que 1dly upon activities for the benefit  of far broader S\ctors of society.
4,5 I shall not enter into the details of the oscilla-  tions of the programme | between these two poles.  Soon a new factor entered the picture, As the result  of a development due to the pressure ot circuastances,  ‘to à new conception of international solidarity,  Technica] Assistance projects poured {nto our pro-  grammes, Special Fund projects were then added  and these new activities, unknown at the outset,  quickly became, from the tinancial angle, the most  important activities of our Organization, |
4.6 My object, in roughly sketching this sequence  of events, has been to show how Unesco has had to  adapt itself ‘constantly’ and suddenly to new and un-  expected forms of activity, and how it has been  obliged, sometimes ir.mediately and sometimes at  leisure, to tackle new tasks,
4.7 We have some striking examples of this. Which  of us could have imagined, ten eleven or twelve years  ago, that Unesco would be required to carry out - or,  in more technical terms, to be the Executing Agency  for - projects financed from a budget equal to or  larger than its own? Who could have foreseen that  it would one day assume direct responsibilities in  the task of educating the children of a million refugees  in the Near East? Or that it would be called upon to  play a most active part in the administration of the  entire educational system of a large African country?
4,8 On the whole, the Secretariat has adapted it-  gelf admirably to these improvised and sometimes  unforeseeable tasks, It has taken all the diplomacy,  a deep gense of duty, and tact of Dr. Veronese, our  Director-General, all the imagination, powers of  synthesis and creative intelligence of Mr, Maheu,  our Deputy Director-General, all the energy and  organizing ability of Mr, Adiseshiah, all the perse-  verence and extensive culture of Mr. Thomas, to  make the Organization what it is today.
4.9 And now,we can continue with our self-criticism.  To do so, I would ask you to return to the sources, in  other words, the texts. Our Constitution has set out  our aims; to construct the defences of peace in the  minds of men, to fight against suspicion and mis-  trust botween peoples, against ignorance and preju-  dice, and against the doctrine of the inequality of  men ard races, to secure full and equal opportunities  for education for all, the unrestricted pursuit of  objective truth and the free exchange of ideas and  knowledge, and to contribute to peace and securityby  promoting collaboration among the nations through  education, science and culture,
4.10 We ought, at least in principle, to keep these  aims constantly in mind, and we should ask ourselves  how each of our particular activities serves the cause  of peace. Education, science and culture, certainly,  but not in the abatract, but for clearly-defined aima  and for a specific ideal: to work for peace in the  minds of men, I should like to emphasize this point  for it is this aim that gontrols our existence and  dominates our activity; in fact, all our activities  tend, more or less indirectly, towards it. Here,  some explanation is essential,
4.11 I repeat: everything in our programme serves  this cause. Everything or almost everything, But  then there is a scale of values, an order of priority  to be taken into account. There are activities of   PLENARY  immediate service to the cause cf peace and others  which serve it on a long-term basis, This must be  the constant and permanent criterion at the root of  all our judgemants, the sieve through which every-  thing must be passed.
4.12 I mention some headings at random; " Promo-  tion of the study of education’, The establishment  of educational documentation centres may, of course,  contribute, at the international level, to the sulution  of educational problems and thereby strengthen the  bonds between States. But it is obvious that this  activity is of less immediate service to the cause of  peace than iso the prevention of discrimination in  education, which ia a specific, pressing and burning  problem today.”
4,13 Or again, let iis consider our activity to pro-  tect the beauty of the landscape and of sites, Who is  unmoved by natural beauty? I say in all seriousness  that the desire to be able to admire the landscapes of  a neighbouring country takes away the desire to des-  troy them. We might even imagine a general who,  seeing a wonderful panorama, unsullied by any  advertisement hoardings, might exclaim: "It is too  beautiful to be destroyed”, Yes, all this servés the  cause of peace, but more or less on a long-term  basis, far more indirectly than does the establishme.it  of technical and vocational education centres, which  will turn out ihe experts necessary to start up,. main -  tain and preserve that tremendous inachine which is  the modern world.
4.14 On the other hand, the Major Project on Mutual  Appreciation of Eastern and Western Cultural Values  is exactly the sort of activity on which Unesco should  concentrate, because it is obviously the sum of all  the Organization's aims,
4.15 I do not mean by this that we should give up  our various long-term activities, but some sort of  compromise must be found between them and urgent  activities. It is a question of degree; we can rely on  your wisdom on this point.
4,16 The African countries, which, with Kuwait,  we welcome to Unesco, have needs tallying exactly  with our aims; mass education first, and the training  of senior personnel next, Without an immediate pro-  gramme of mass education, a country is doomed to  stagnation; but, without senior personnel anarchy is  inevitable at once.
4.17 1 should like to sée, failing the creation of  futernational universities, at least the internationaliza-  tion of some universities. Students of different  countries and civilizations should be able to meet on  common ground, where they can compare their cul-  tural heritages, their languages and their civiliza-  tions with those of other countries and other civiliza-  tions, thus giving the He to Sa1tre's famous saying:  "Hell is other people".
4,18 This is not mere imagination; there are  countries where it is possible. I know of one, for  example, where a French and an American university -  that is, universities where the languages used are  French and Engiish respectively - can pool their  efforts with those cf a Lebanes: university - using  Arabie - to creaté à harmonious mixture perfectly  adaptable to the linguistic, cultural and religious  needs of Africa and other parts of the world. Our  Organization's intervention inthe way I have advocated  would, inthe Lebanon, foreshadow the world of tomorrow.  MEETINGS xvi
4.19 There, without any discrimination of sex,  race or religion, -you will firid LeSanese men and  women ready to welcome with open arms their.  African brothers, with whom they already have many  bonds and contacts, and to give them a foretaste of  what true international co-operation will one day be.
4,20 Perhaps Unesco might eventually consider  undertaking a Major Project which will not be  "Orient-Occident" but "East-West", We did not  wish to put before this session of the General Con-  ference a specific draft resolution on this point, be-  cause we hope that in two years! time it will no  longer be necessary, It is sometimes better to be  short-sighted than to play the prophet. That is one  of the tasks which Unesco might tackle, but -  insh'Allah, God willing! - will not have to; by then,  tempers will have cooled and reason will have cleared  the sky which is now charged with atomic thunder-  bolts.
4.21 I should also like to say a few words about  the teaching of history. I do not want to repeat now,  simply in another form, the conclusions of the many  excellent studies conducted by Unesco on this subject,  but I feel that, after a very good start, things have  more or less come to a standstill, or at least that  there has been a pause for reflection. I am aware  of the many obstacles hindering our Organizotion's  action in this sphere. I know how difficult it is to  persuade nations to givé up something which they  believe to be a source of pride, or even the very  justification for their existence. I xnow now Clio  can be dismembered, but I nevertheless think that  constant efforts should continue to be made, even if  they go unrewarded.
4.22 We might perhaps request the Director-  General to consider the revision of history texthooks  in the light of current events and those of the last  few years, Ideas, like empires, come and go. We  should like everyone to divest himself, in the lobby  of history, of his prejudices and resentment, so that  the children of today may become the men witheut  hatred of tomorrow.
4.23 * Technology in all its forms has overwhelmed  Man, Natural sciences, physics, chemistry and  electronics have made glant strides, But, since the  time of Socrates, what progress have we made in  our knowledge of the human heart? Nowadays, we  can measure accurately the slightest tremor, the  slightest atomic explosion, anywhere in the world,  Precision instruments give us a clear and exact  graph, But to discern the Joy or pain in the heart  of another human being, the effect of our words or  deeds on him, ts something that is still beyond ua,
4.24 Excessive power carries its own cure within  itself and the bomb has cancalled out the bomb. The  modern Prometheus has unleashed unknown forces,  But, in education, science and culture, we have not  yet reached that stage, We can still compare our  cultures without destroying them, derive guidance  for our lives from our philosophers and motives for  dreaming from our poets, without harming a single  human being.
4.25 We can compare our cultures still more  easily in this capital which offers us its hospitality  so generously, In Paris, the principle or legal  phenomenon of extra-territoriality 1e perhaps geo-  graphical, but certainly not spiritual,
4.26 This city, perennial symbol of freedom of  thought and criticism, this capital in which each of us  has received part of his education, acquired part of  his meagre knowledge or delved deep into its rich  culture, this capital where, in the area stretching  from st, Germain-des-Prés to Montparnasse and the  Latin Quarter, we, as adolescents, ‘like our fathers  before us, lingering over our cups of indifférent  coffee, shaped the future, rebuilt the world and  imagined the revolutions which have since become a  reality - we cannot possibly ever forget it. .
4,27 Gentlemen, Unesco is the bottle in the sea,  bearing the message from a world longing to save  the human spirit from foundering, The coming days  will show that we are the Organization of the future,
5. The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 call upon Mr, Cheng Tien-Fong, Head of the  delegation of China,
6.1 Mr. CHENG (China):  Mr. President and fellow delegatés, on behalf of  my Government and my delegation I w!eh, first of all,  to express our gratitude to the French ‘Government  and people for their kind hospitality. - Paris, the  centre of French culture with its ferous museums,  art galleries, libraries and instituiions of higher  learning is always an inspiration to delegations to the  Unesco Conferences from whatever part of the world  they may come.
6.2 Next I want to say a few words in appreciation  of the achievements of Unesco. Since its establish-  ment in 1945 Unesco has grown in membership, has  successfully carried out many projects in various  parts of the world, and has done much to promote  educational, scientific and cultural co-operation  among Member States. On these achievements I  must congratulate the former and the present  Directors-General, without whose able leadership  and untiring efforts these achievements would not have  been possible, Credit must also go to all the mem-  . bers of the Secretariat who have conscientiously  worked under the guidance of the Director-General  in preparing the budget, reports, programmes, and  other related documents for our discussion and  reference.
6.3 During the last decade, the Republic of China  has also accomplished much in the fields of education,  science and culture. In view of the limited timy at  my disposal, I shall point out only a few imps: tant  facts, In the fiscal year 1959-1960, thi’ déstral,  provincial, and municipal and hsien governments in  the Republic of China apent 1, 265, 000, 000 NT  dollars - equivalent to $ US 31, 400, 000 - ori education,  sclence and culture (excluding ‘expenditures tor mili-  tary institutions and research work), On the surface  this figure may not seem impressive; but when we  consider that there ar¢ only 10, 500, 000 people on the  island of Taiwan and the national income’ in 1959-1860  was only 36, 000, 000,000 NT dollars - equivalent to  $ US 800, 000, 000 =, 14 is clear that the Chinese -  Government has done its best to promote education  and science, spending more than 3% of the national  income for this purpose. The increase in the numbèr  of students is more impressive, In the fall se:nester  of 1850 we had 22, 000 kindergarten pupils, 871,000  primary school students, 128,000 secondary school  > 264  students, and 8,000 college and uniy ersity students  totalling 1,150 ,000, Today there are 65,000 kinder-  garten puplli, > 1, 810,000 primary school students
(95% of schqol- age children are attending schools),
340,000 secondary school studente, and 32,000  college and university students, the total being
2,247,000, an increase of almost 99% in ten years,  The proportion of students in the total population is  now 21,2%, a position which compares fayourably  with that of most countries in the world. In 1950  there were 1,413,000 illiterates; today the number  of illiterstes "has dropped to 800, 000 or 7,6% of the  population,
6.4 Now, - Mr, President, permit 5 me to say some-  thing about Unesco's mission and programmes, The  prezsble of Unesco's Constitution reads in part:  "Sire wars begin in the minds of men, it is In the  minds of men that the defences of peace must be  constructed ;.., the great and terrible war which  has now ended was a war made possible by the denial  of the democratic principles of the dignity, equality:  and mutual respect of men ,...", Article I of the’  Constitution defines the purpose of Unesco as being  "to contribute to peace and security by promoting  colleboration among the nations through education,  science and culturo in order to further universal  respect for justice,‘ for the rule of law and for the  human rights and fundamental freedoms which are  affirmed for the peoples of the world, without dis-  tirction of race, sex, language or religion, by the  Charter of the United Nations! ,” These passages are  witness that Unesco was founded immediately after  the Second World War with a noble and lofty mission,  that 18, to endekvour through educational, scientific  and cultural work of an inmternztional scope to re-  move the ideas of war from the minds of men so  that mankind will forevér live in peace and happiness,
6.5 Has Unesco so far fulfilled its mission? Despite  the important achievements during the fifteen years  of its existence I must say that it is today further  away from its goal than it was in 1945. On the sur-  face the world enjoys peace, but it is a false and  precarious peace. Great powers are spending today  more money on armanent than in the years before  the Second World War. . The international situation  continues to be tense and crises have ¢ccurred one  after another. Freedom loving and peace loving  peoples all over the world live in constant fear and  suspense because at any moment a nuclear war may  break out which will not only déstroy their lives but  may even wipe out human civilization, -
6.6 What is the cause of ull this trouble? What  makes the future of mankind so gloomy? Of course  there are many factors but the most important single  factor is that in the post-war world, while the  imperialism of the Eighteenth and Nineteenth centur-  ies is dying, there has arisen a new type of imperlal--  ism which alms at the conquest of the whole globe.  The method used by these new imperialists is far  more effective than that used by the old ones, «In  addition to pressure and aggression from without  they resort to infiltration and subversion within.  They talk about." peaceful coexistence” but threaten  war, They set up an iron curtain around the lands  they occupy and obstruct the diffusion of culture and  the free flow of information, They distort the facts  and truth of the free world and stir up hatred and   PLENARY  enmity among classes, mations and races, Wo have  seer ourselves, since the opening of the present  General Conference, that delegates from some  Mernber States have tried to undermine Unesco by  plunging it into the cold war, Under such circum-  stances la it any wonder that Unesco has been unable  to fulfil its mission of establishing a lasting peace  based on the Intellectual and moral solidarity of man-  kind?
6,7 Is not mean, of course, that because of this  new imper ialism human beings should give up their  hope and Unesço should cease to function, On the  comtrary, hope lives eternal and Unesco'should re-  double its efforts to promote mutual understanding  and appreciation among the peoples of the free world,  and to penetrate the countries behind the iron curtain  by means of ideas and information, The Proposed  Programme and Budget for 1961-1962 presented by  the Director-General seems to me to be well prepared.  It follows the pattern established at the Montevideo  Conference of 1954 in emphasizing two fields of  activities; namely, extending Unescot's rôle and re-  sponsibilities in education and intensifyitig international  co-operation in scientific research, This policy is  sound, The scope of Unesco's activities is practi-  cally boundless, but the funds available to Unesco  are limited and therefore it should concentrate on  the important things so that every dollar spent will  bring the maximum result,
6.8 At the present General Conference we have the  pleasure of welcoming fifteen new Member States, of  which fourteen are African nations, Their inde-  pendence sounds the death knell of colonialism and  is an epoch making event, These new nations most  certainly need help in promoting their education,  science and culture and it is Unesco's responsibility  to offer this aid, My delegation is of the opinion that  the eleventh session of the General Conference should  appropriate the largest funds possible for this purpose.
6.9 My delegation is especially interested in the  Major Project on Mutual Appreciation of Eastern and  Western Cultural Values, We believe that at this  critical juncture in the world situation the removal  of misunderstanding and distrust between the East  and the West is essential to the safeguarding of world  peace, For this reason we would like to see this pro-  ject enlarged and more money appropriated for it,
6,10 _ In this connexion, I wish to express our dis-  appointment concerning this project, ‘I am cure you  all agree with me that Chinese culture is one of the  highest and most ancient cultures in the world, China  has rade great contributions to the world in art,  literature, philosophy, human relationships and the  art of government, Any project on the diffusion of  culture which fails to give due place to Chinesa.cui-  ture and does not include the active participation of  Chinese scholars is bound to be incomplete aud in-  effective. Yet, during the four years of oreration of  this project, not a single Chinese has sérved on the  advisory committee and not enough work has been  done to introduce Chinese culture to the West. It 19  our hope that in the next two years measures will be  taken by the Director-General to improve this situation,
7. ‘The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon Mr, Okasha, Head of the delegation of  the United Arab Republic, ,
8.1 Mr, OKASHA (United Arab Republic) (Transla-  tion from the French): :  Mr, President, fellow delegates; on 8 Mach
1960, at a formal’ ceremony held in this very hall,  Dr. Vitiorino Veronese launched an international  appeal for the safeguarding of part of the world's  cultural heritage, in the form'of a wonderful group  of monuments situated on the territory of the Sudar  and of the United Arab Republic, - ?
8.2 By thus responding to the regüest for aid sub-  mitted from the Governments of these two countries  Unesco gave another proof of its faithfulness to one  of its fundamental aims - I am referring to that set  out in Article I of its constitution, which states that  the Organization will "maintein, increase and diffuse  knowledge: by assuring the conservation and protec-  tion of the world's inheritance of books, works of  art and monuménts of history and science",
8.3 The High Dam now being constructed on the  Nile responds to an imperative need in a country  where the area under cultivation is too small to meet  the requirements of a rapidly growing population.  Scientific and technical progress, which made the  plan feasible, will make it possible to bring life into  desert areas where it does not exist and, in others,  to improve cultivation and living conditions consider-  ably. It is an immense project which, from the  scientific angle alone, could not fail to interest  Unesco, In this connexion, I should like to pay a  public tribute to the Soviet scientists and engineers  who have made, and are still making, a considerable  contribution to the planning and implementation of  the project.
8.4 But this project, for the benefit of those alive  today, is threatening to destroy the symbols - we  hope eternal - of an ancient life and civilization,  the influence of whose greatness far transcends the  bounds of time and geography.
8.5 A painful dilemma thus arose, to quôte the  terms used in the Director-General's appeal,  ‘between a heritage of the past and the present well-  being of a people, living in need in the shadow of one  of history's most splendid legacies: it 19 not easy  to choose between temples and crops"',
8,6 Responsibility for making the choice is still  more overwhelming when the monuments are of such  historical value and so beautiful that they belong to  the whole world. Therefore the Government I have  the honour to represent submitted its painful prob-  lem to Uriesco, which symbolizes alike the protec-  tion of the cultural heritage of mankind and the pro-  motion of international solidarity.
8.7 It is our firm belief that culture knows no  frontiers and is the property of no one, that, like air  and water, it is a necessity foi all men and every  individual is entitled to benefit by the cultire and  enjoy the art of all members of the human family.
8.8 Anxiety to save the Nubian monuments and  sites dates back as far as the initial proposal to  huild the High Dam, This anxiety increased pro-  gressively not only in the minds and hearts of thosé  responsible but also in those of the peoples con-  cerned, as the plans for the construction of the dam  took shape and the full extent of the danger to these  ancient monuments became apparent,
8.9 The Government of the United Arab Republic  did its utmost, by every means in its power, to solve   XVI - PLENARY  the problem of preserving the Nubian monuments.  But we were compelled to conclude that the problem  went beyond the limits of our possibilities and was an  international one, We therefore appealed to Unesco  for its technical, scientific and financial assistance,  in order to save the Nubian heritage within the time  limit thrust upon us, * Unesco showed immediate inter-  est in our request, The Director-General was most  enthusiastic and we met with the understanding and  encouragement for which we had hoped, both on his  part and on the part of the members of the Executive  Board,
8.10 An international plan of operation was drawn  up by a meeting of international experts convened by  the Director-General of Unesco and held in Cairo in  October 1958. At the openihg meeting, the Govern-  ment of the United Arab Republic made a particularly  important statement in which it outlined its request  for assistance and specified the activities which it  covered - i.e, excavations, documentation and the  safeguarding either on the spot or by transfer of the  Nubian monuments. :
8.11 In its statement, as you are aware, the  Government I have the honour to represent here  offered to cede at least half of the objects found by  expeditions taking part in the excavations in Nubia.  It also announced that it would allow and encourage  excavations outside thé area threatened by flooding  in Lower, Middle and Upper Egyot. It offered to  cede, for transfer abroad, the temples of Dabod,  Taffeh, Dendur, Ellysia and Derr. This statement  therefore facilitated and encouraged not only co-  operation at the international level but also the re-  sumption of scientific research on the Egyptian  monuments, which had formerly been conducted by  a great many foreign scientific foundations,
8,12 The sympathy and encouragement that we have  received from the Director-General and the Execu-  tive Board, and the action which the Organization has  already taken, have moved us deeply and strengthened  our faith in the solidarity of the United Nations.  * Unesco's action has shown, as President Nasser  pointed out in hit message to the Organization on
8 March, that "'Mankind forms an indivisible whole,  The parts which constitute it cannot do without each  other nor live in isolation"
8.13 What more convincing § proof of sulldarity can  there be than the establishment of a Committee of  Patrons and ati International Action Committee and,  in the various countries; national committees for the  preservation of thé Nubian monuments? The prelimin-  ary work dore by the Advisory Committee set up by the  Government of the United Arab Republic is also parti-  cularly encéuraging, At its first meeting, held in  Cairo last May and June, this Advisory Committee  drew up a detailed plan of action, It established a  list of priorities for the dismantling and transfer of  monuments and it also examined and studied the offers  of contributions madé in response to the international  appesl thst had been launched,
8.14. One of the most important recommendations  made by this Committee was that the Taffeh and Dabod  Temples should be transferred és soon as possible -  and in any case during the summer où 1960 at the latest.  I am happy to inform you, Mr, Presider’, that the  Government of the United Arab Republic has been  able, at its own expense, to dismantle and tronsfer  x  NEETINGS  these two temples to Elepharniineg Island; at Aswan,  and to draw up complete documentation concerning  them, The Government of the Unitéd Arab Republic  has also had the beautiful. temple of Kertassi dis-  mantled and transported to the same island,
8.15 + As part of the acheine of international assis-  tance given to us, experts from Belgium, Poland  and France hive takén part in the Work carried out  under the instructions of the Government of the  United Arab Republic,‘ In the short time available  to me, I cannot possibly recount of describe to you  the various measures adopted and the maay activi-  ties undertaken by the United Arab Republic for the  preservation of this cultural heritage of ours, so  great that it trangcends time and frontiers, -
8,16 I shall merely point out that, in order to  undertake further activities connected with the  salvaging of the momuments; thé funds set aside for  the Nubian project in my country's budget were  doubled in 1960. Moreover, the budget of the  Antiquities Départment has this year been provided  with a special allocation to finance the dismantling  and transfer of the Nubian temples. Tha budget of  the Documentation'and Stu y Centre for the History  of the Art and Civilization of Ancient Egypt, which  was established with Unesco's co-operation in 1955,  has been considerably incresscd,
8,17 With regnid to saving the two temples of Abu  Simbel, universally considered as among the finest  relics of ancient Egyptian civilization, the Govern-  ment of the United Arab Republic has arranged to  have a preliminary project drawn up for the con-  struction of a dyke of earth and rock to preserve  them, In April 1960, Unesco and the Government  of the United Arab Republic signed a contract with  the office of André Coyne and Jean Belller, who  were appointed to draw up the preliminary plans  for the undertaking, The Government of the United  Arab Republic agreed to meet two-thirds of the  fees and costa involved, 1.e. US $ 134,000, while  Unesco generously agreed to pay the other third,  i.e. US $ 67,000, . The Government of the United  Arab Republic has supplied the consulting engineers  with the hydrographic and hydrologic details and with  all the economic data required for drawing up the  preliminary project.
8.18 Our deep-rooted faith in the success of world  co-operation for the preservation of the temples of  Abu Simbel has never been shaken. The saving of  these two monuments, which are a vital part of our  heritage, is an obligation for us, not only because  of our duty towards culture and history, but also -  and principally - as a mark of the solidarity binding  all men and nations - a solidarity on which all our  hopes for a better future are founded, |:
8.19 Convinced that these masterpieces are of  untold value to the whole world, the Government of  the United Arab Republic is firmly determined to in-  crease its efforts beyond what seemed, even quite  recently to be the maximum we could marie. Iam  happy to be able to tell you that my Gusc:anent has  resolved to set aside three and a half million Egyptian  pounds, i,e, about US$ 10 million, for the safeguarding .  of these temples, This amount is included inthe budget  for the current year snd inthose for the seven {financial  yearsto follow, tothe extent of half a million Egyptian  pounds, i.e, about US$ 1, 400, 000 per financial year,
8.20 My Government, confident of the ultimate  success of the efforts resulting from the international  solidarity mobilized by Uneaco, owes the Organiza-  tion and all its Member States a profound debt of  gratitude, as it does also the famous and venerable  individuals who have agreed to give their blessing and  patronage to this international endeavour, Our thanks  are due too, to the members of the various committees  which are making an effective contribution to the  implementation of this international projeat.
8.21 I should like to pay a special tribute to the  vital part played by the Director-General of the  Organization, Dr. Veronese and his immediate assis-  tants, Messrs, René Maheu and Jean Thomas, and  by Mrs. Desroches-Noblecourt,
8.22 I should also like to tell you how much I have  been moved by the many expressions of sympathetic  interest in the work of safeguarding the Nubian monu-  ments which have been conveyed to me personally by  all of you at this session of the General Conference.
8.23 Unesco has already made great efforts in the  sphere of international co-operation, which is bound  to increase in the future in proportion to the increase  in the Organization's membership, New States,” more  particularly in Africa, have recently become inde-  pendent and are now members of the United Nations  : the Specialized Agencies, May I, as an African,  be permitted to welcome them to the great interna-  tional family and to express my sincere good wishes  for their future prosperity. Thesc States, like other  older members of Unesco, stand in great need of  social, economic and cultural development, In past  years, the Organization has played a most praise-  worthy part in helping these countries to develop  their educational systems. The three surveys on the  educational needs of Africa, the Arab countries and  South East Asia - conducted successfully despite  serious difficulties - mark an important step forward  in the process of increasing the educational assistance  required by those countries,
8.24 . How to raise the large sums needed to finance  such acsistence is still a problem, but the prospects  opened up by the establishment of the Special Fund  and the International Development Association justify  a certain optimism,
8.25 Several of the previous speakers have empha-  sized the current importance of Africa. It has re-  peatedly been said that this Conference will be known,  in the history of Unesco, as the Conference for the  promotion of Africa. In speaking to you about safe-  guarding the monuments of Nubia, I, too, am speak-  ing about Africa,
8.26 In referring to priorities in Africa, the great-  est emphasis has hitherto been placed on its educa-  tional needs and on the importance of intensifying  scientific research on the problems which must be  solved before its natural resources can be properly  developed. As I have already stated, I fully sub-  scribe to these vital educational and scientific tasks.  But let us beware of forgetting culture, without which  all our work will be lacking in one essential element -  that of conscience.
8.27 For it ig cultural values which make nations  aware of the reasons for their existence and conse-  quently ensure their self-respect and their dignity  in the eyes of others. Today, there is nothing to  which the African, whether white or black, attaches
267  MEETINGS XVI  more importance than recognition of this dignity,  Let there be no migunderstanding, the spontaneous  liberation movement from north to south and from  east to west which has spread over this immense  continent like a flame is not based on hatred or  vengeance but, aboyen all, on the claim to human  dignity, And the more it is acceptéd as such, the  more it will blossom into frateinal feconoiliation.
8.28 In this affirmation of the dignity of the African  the re-conquest of Africa's past is of prime import-  ance. The peoples of Africa, with their ancient  traditions and legends, but all too often without any  written history - peoples moving at full speed towards  the future, but all too often carried away by their  own impetus - these peoples must, before all else,  go in search of themselves, And the search must  be directed both towards the past and towards the  future. ‘The latter is called education, the former  culture, For a truly integrated personality, both  are essential,
8.29 In this search for itgelf, the ancient civiliza-  tions of the Nile valley offer Africa its most ancient  reasons for pride. It is true, as I have said, that  the Nubian monuments are part of the heritage of  mankind and, from that point of view, their safe-  guarding is one of the permanent tasks of Unesco;  but first of all, they belong to the heritage of Africa  and, from that angle, their preservation forms part  of the most pressing activity in the whole of the  Organization's programme, that is, the restoration  of Africa to itself and to the world.
8.30 For make no mistake: this is not merely, or  even principally, a question of preserving stones,  however beautiful and venerable they may be. The  malin point is to mould the minds of today and the  hearts of tomorrow. By ensuring that the rays of  the rising sun will continue forever to penetrate into  the sacred depths of the temple of Abu Simbel, you  will not merely be safeguarding a treasure of peer-  less beauty for future generations, you will be rous-  ing in the heart of ancient Africa the young hope of  human brotherhood.
9, The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Ladies and gentlemen, I have just been summoned  to take part in another of our Organization's activi-  ties. I therefore call upon Lieutenant-General Phya  Salvidhannides to be kind enough to take the Chair.  (Mr. Phya Salvidhannides took the Chair),
10, The PRESIDENT:  I call upon Dr. Moshe Avidor, President of the  National Commission for Unesco and Head of the  delegation of Israel, ‘
11,1 Mr. AVIDOR (Israel);  Mr. President, fellow delegates, I wish to join  the preceding speakers in congratulating ths Director-  General and his staff on the programme proposed  for 1961-1962, This programe bears the marks  of the rapldly changing times which we are privileged  to witness with our own eyes.
11.2 Africa plays a prominent part in the programme  presented to us, and rightly so. We all know that the  year 1860 will long be remembered in history as the  year of Africa, for it ushered into the family of   Xvi PLENARY  nations some 15 African States, newly gaining or re-  gaining their independence, These young,’ independent  States have goon realized, just as did we other States  who gained our freedom in recent years, that politi-  cal independence - while a most prized possession  and worth eyery effort to achieve and maintain, and  while it seems a lofty goal in itself before its attain-  ment - is actually only a means, to be sure a most  precious one, towards a greater end; that of making  the life of their peoples richer, fuller, healthier and  happier, Difficult as it often 18 to achieve political  independence, it soon becomes apparent to the new  States that it 18 more difficult to obtain for their  people better health, more and better food, adequate  housing, convenient communications, efficient ad-  ministration, cultural facilities and everything else  that contributes towards making free life worth living.  The decisive rôle agsigned to education soon becomes  clear to the leaders of these peoples. The extension  of Unesco's activities in the field of education in  Africa and Asia, and also in Latin America, in the  programme proposed for-1961-1962 is therefore  greatly welcome, Emphasis must be given to all  levels of education - elementary, secondary, techni-  cal and vocational, teacher training, adult and higher  learning. None of these can be neglected or post-  poned for long, although the relative attention given  to each must naturally depend on the particular  circumstances prevailing in each State, Parallel, if  not equal, efforts must be excited for all levels of  education and throughout all sections of the population  in every country, Education is a very costly under-  taking. It takes a great deal of money to build schools,  to train teachers and pay them adequately, to equip  schools with much needed laboratories and workshops,  gports and art education facilities, Every new State  must exert {ts utmost efforts and look for outside  sources as well, in order to launch, extend and main-  tain its educational activities, Unesco is able to con-  iribute relatively little, financially, towards these  national efforts out of its limited regular budget;  even its modest assistance in planning education for  and with its Member States, in providing experts,  fellowships and some equipment, actually calls for  greater budgetary expenditure than the amounts we  have adopted for 1961-1962. ;
11.3 - While dwelling on education, I should like to |  make two additional observations: the first is that,  in extending our educational efforts ard expanding  these activities, both we individual States and Unesco  should take great care to stress not only quantity but  quality; increase in the number of schools and of  pupils is of great importance, but the quality of ti  teachers and what they impart to their pupils is of  no less significance, The emphasis laid on higher  education in the proposed programme is a step in the  right direction, for the development of higher educa-  tion will necessarily be reflected in all other levels  of schooling and in the scientific and cultural standards  of every country, ;
11.4 Secondly, equal and non-discriminatory educa-  tional opportunities and facilities must be given to all  members of every community - young and old alike,  We are going to discuss and.adopt, at this session of  the Conference, a Convention and/or Recommendations  against discrimination in education. The Draft Con-  vention stipulates that disputes arising between States  NEETINGS  in this connexion may be referred to the Interna-  tional Court of Justice, but neither the Draft Con-  vention nor the Draft Recommendations provide for  any orgän to which a nation or à'minority of any kind  within a Member State may appeal whén it considers  iteelf diséYiminated against in the field of education  and culture, The Secretariat and the Executive  Board might well consider this during the next two  years and submit to the twelfth session a proposal  for setting up a competent board - not necessarily  a judicial body - to which Unesco may refer for  examination of complaints against discrimination,  The findings of such competent body would be made  public, and this might go far to remedy and even  prevent the abuses inherent in discrimination in  education. .
11,5 Education in the developing States is at pres-  ent closely linked with scientific training, teaching  and research. This is reflected in the proposed  programme for 1961-186%, ‘although it seems that a  gomewhat greater emphasis should be placed on the  teaching of science at the lower levels of education,  in the elementary and secondary schools. Mase  communication means can, of course, lend ever-  increasing assistance in accelerating the expansion  of education, science and culture throughout the world,  and especially in bringing their benefits to remote  villages and communities. Unesco must experiment  with all kinds of audio-visual methods to help under-  developed communities employ the most effective  ways of using their limited qualified educational and  scientific manpower.
11,6 While pursuing the expansion of its educa-  tional, scientific and mass communication activities  with increased vigour, Unesco must not reduce its  interest in the social sciences and cultural activities,  for, just as man cannot live by bread alone, so  education and natural sciences cannot, by themselves,  satisfy or sufficiently enrich the human mind and  soul,
11.7 Our Organization has almost doubled its’  membership since its foundation. Most of the addi-  tional Member States have gained their freedom in  recent years and many of them are at different  stages of development, This increase in member-  ship has had some impact on the nature of our  Organization's work; it requires further thinking  and constant rethinking, Structural changes also  seem to be necessary, An Organization as large as  ours, of which the highest organ - the General Con-  ference - meets only once in two years, must  obviously rely more on its Executive Board to guide  the policies of Unesco, This Board must therefore  truly represent a cross-section of the membership  of the Organization; it should be enlarged every so  often in line with the increase in membership, and  should represent, say, about one-third of the  Member States of the Organization,
11.8 The increased membership also calls for an  intensification of regional activities, it being borne  in mind always that all regions should be treated in  accordance with their real needs and that no Member  State should be discriminated against in any way  whatsoever within its geographical region, Moreover,  gerupulous care should be taken to ensure that in-  creased regional activities do not entail administra-  tive decentralization or undue increase in personnel.   PLENARY
11.8 We at Unesco have always held that our  Organization's work must appeal not only to goveru-  ments but also to the great masses of humanity,  Unesco, of all international agencies, has from its  very beginning envisaged the establishment of  National Commissions which, in accordance with our  Organization's Constitution, -are composed preferably  not only of government representatives but also of  "principal bodies interested in educational, scientific  and cultural matters'', While it is popular in some  countries, Unesco has not yet achieved the universal  popularity it deserves, or even needs, The greater  its popularity, the easier it will be for Unesco to ob-  tain from its Member States the means it requires  for its activities, and an increased popularity may  also have a significant influence on the nation States -  especially the newer ones - in encouraging them to  devote greater efforts to the development of education,  science and culture among their peoples, To achieve  greater popularity, Unesco would do well to attract  to its work - much more so than it has done in the  past - the large army of millions of organized teach-  ers who are in daily contäct with hundreds of millions  of schoolchildren and their parents. .
11,10 The impact of the dynamic growth of our  Organization must also cause us to think again about  the concept of Major Projects - a concept that was  arrived at in our search for ways of concentrating  our efforts which had been and still are, for various  reasons, too scattered, In 1957, we launched three  Major Projects, My delegation has presented to this  session of the Conference a resolution which requeets  the Director-General and the Executive Board to ex-  amine anew the whole matter of Major Projects and  to submit its findings to the twelfth session of the  General Conference, which may decide on the desira-  bility of pursuing the concentration of activities through  Major Projects or thrçugh other methods.
11.11 -I wish also to say a few words on experts and  fellowships, especially in connexion with developing  countries. This exchange of persons is assuming  greater importance every year, and Unesco has  rightly changed the name of its administrative unit  dealing with these matters from thé Exchange of  Persons Service to the International Exchange  Service. Experience has taught us, however, that  it ie not enough to send experts to countries which  need them, or to grant fellowships to young people at  the request of their governments. Quite often in the  past experts' efforts have been wasted, at most result-  ing in reports of doubtful value, for they knew very  little about the needs and the conditions of the develop-  ing States and the people whom they were to assist,  On the other hand, young recipients of fellowships all  too often went from their modest environments to  highly developed centres of study, where they accumu-  lated knowledge which they did not know how to adapt  to their country's needs, We must devote increasing  attention to the proper training of our experts before  they go to the aréas in need of their advice, and we  must select suitable fellows very carefully and plan  for them the right studies in the right places, We  cannot afford to be haphazard in this work. Our aim  goes beyond helping the developing States; we want to  teach them to help themselves.
11.12 In conclusion, I would like to drasz your  attention to an experience which took place in my
269  MESTINGS XVI  country last summer, An International Conference  on the Rôle of Science in the advancement of New  States was convened by the Weizmann Institute of  Science in Rehovoth, Israel, in August 1960, The  Conference was attended by some 140 participants  from about 30 countries - Ministers, high govern  ment officials and leaders of educational and develop  ment institutions from many countries, including  those recently established as sovereign States - as  well as leading scientists, scholars and economists  from all parts of the world. Specialized international  agencies, including Unesco, were also represented,
11.13 The Conference directed its attention to two  processes which have deeply affected the life of this  generation - the swift progress of science and techno-  logy and the change in the structure of the interna-  tional community through the emergence of new  States, mainly in Asia and Africa. The natural and  social acientists participating in the Conference were  agreed that science and technology are capable of  bringing about swift improvements in the conditions  of nevs States. Emphasis was laid on the need to  strengthen scientific education in developing States,
11,14 Conferences and meetings of this kind, .  organized by or with the assistance of Unesco, where  experienced scientists and educators can exchange  views with leading statesmen of the newly emerging  States, will go far to accelerate the progreas of the  developing communities, The world will not long  tolerate the existence, side by side, of the ignorant  and the highly cultured, of the advanced and the  backward in education, science and culture, Let us  in Unesco do our utmost to increase harmony and  peace in the world by raising the social and cultural  standards of all human beings, and especially those  who need it most. The world can do it; the world  must do it!
12, The PRESIDENT:  I now call upon Mr, U Khin Maung Cyi, Head of  the delegation of Burma.
13.1 Mr, U KHIN MAUNG CYI (Burma);  Mr. President and fellow delegates, it is an  honour for me to represent the Government of the  Union of Burma at this eleventh. session of the Unesco  General Conference. Allow me first to express my  gratitude and that of my country for the hospitality  which the National Commission of France has extend:d  to us on our arrival in this historic city of Paris,
13.2 Representing a country which has only recently  emerged from colonialism, I cannot but note with  great satisfaction the spirit which prevails among  the delegates to this present Conference, at which I  have the honour to represent my country for the first  time. It is truly an African Conference. I extend  my sincere congratulations and those of my Govern-  ment to all the new African States on their attain-  ment of independence from colonial status and on  their election as members to this Organization, We  are extremely happy that the General Conference  has seen fit to elect one of the emergent nations of -  new Africa, the Malagasy Republic, to the Executive  Board. From our knowledge of his curriculum vitae,  we of the Burmese delegation, are fully confident  that the eminent Dr, Albert Rakoto Ratsimamanga,  of the Malagasy Republic, will be capable of   Xv1 PLENARY  contributing usefully to the work and general  welfare of our Organization,
13,3 Concerning the Director-General's Report  and the programme and budget, I shall be brief, Mr.  President, In my comments and shall confine myself  to certain general aspects only. I would like to con-  gratulate thé Director-Génèral on his report of the  activities of the Organization within the last two  years, With the limited resources at the disposal of  Unesco, the Director-General and his Secretariat  could not have done better than what they have actu-  ally done in implementation of the projects approved  by the previous General Conference, Again, with  regard to the proposed budget for 1861 and 1962, I  would say that there is a proper general balance of  the available funds between the fields of education,  natural science and cultural activities,
13,4 As concerns the programme for the two en-  suing years, the Burmese delegation welcomes the  emphasis on the extension of primary and secondary  education in the less developed countries of Africa,  Asia and the Arab regions, - My delegation regrets to  note, however, that the funds allocated for the pur-  pose of implementing the Karachi plan are extremely  meagre and incommensurate with the objectives set  out, My delegation also feels that the importance of  research in arid and semi-arid lands and of the exten-  sion of research activities beyond the zones originally  scheduled should not be neglected. We would like to  congratulate the Director-General on the inclusion of  two items in the education programme: overall educa-  tional planning, and experimental studies on the social  inadaptation of young people and juvenile delinquency.  We firmly believe that education systems should not  be planned in isolation and must be so planned as to  be in line with the social and economic development  programmes of the various countries. Juvenile de.  linquency is a problem which confronts almost every  country and it {s fitting that Unesco should initiate  measures to deal with it at this juncture.
13.5 May I alao inake here a passing reference to  the arid zone regearch project in which my Govern-  ment is keenly interested, Although the Director-  General's representative has assured us in tae meet-  ings of the working party on arid zone research that  activities in this erstwhile Major Project would not  only continué, but would be expanded to include the  humid tropical regions, it is not without misgiving,  nay suspicion, that the Burmese delegation is com-  pelled to accept the termination of this project as a  Major Project, Indeed, if this assurance is sincere,  my delegation is unable to understard why there is any  need for termination of this as a Major Project at  the end of 1662,
13.6 Considering the budget for 1961-1962 as a  whole, no one can fail to realize the inadequacy of  the funds available for all the projects of Unesco.  Funds must be provided and, as the Director-General  and some delegations have pointed out, large re-  sources which could be released by disarmament  would become available to finance projects on which  Unesco might embark. My delegation, therefore, is  of the opinion that Unesco, within the framework of  its Constitution, should strive its utmost to facilitate  the speedy release of these resources.
13.7 | To face the facts, it cannot be denied that  during te last tifteen years of Unesco's existence
270  MEETINGS  the Organization has been able to act merely aga:  catalyst in the projects it has initiated; I regret to  be so frank, Mr, President, but I feel that honest .  criticism is better than honeyed words lacking in  sincerity. The major portion of Unesco's funds, we  observe are utilized in the administrative costs of  the over-enlarged Secretariat, In view of the -  immensity of the new educational programme which  is to be launched for the underdeveloped countries  of the three A regions (Africa, Asia and Arab), and  other programmes connected with research on arid  and humid tropical regions, including oceanography,  would it not be more proper to cut down the administra.  tive costs to some extent, rather than raising them  by appointing another Assistant Director-General?  In the opinion of the Burmese delegation, the Secre-  tariat as it is, is sufficiently staffed to be able to  cope fully with the duties entrusted to it. The new  duties connected with the new educational programme  can well be taken care of by the existing personnel,
13,8 For precisely thé same reason we do not  think it is proper to utilize the meagre funds of .  Unesco for the fourth headquarters building, at least  not for the present. We do not deny the need for the  fourth building but, in our opinion, alternative  sources for funds should be sought elsewhere rther  than resorting to the contributions of Member States  at this juncture, There are among us highly indus-  trialized, highly developed countries, such as the  United States of America, the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom and France,  and we have among us a host of developing or under-  developed countries, Perhaps one of these highly  developed countries or more than ons of them may  come forward as good Samaritans and jointly do the  good work by offering the necessary funds for the  fourth building.
13.9 Now, Mr. President, I would like to comment  briefly on the composition of the Executive Board,  My Government regrets to note that the high ideals  and the noble principles laid down in the Constitution  of Unesco regarding fair geographical representation  in the Executive Beard and algo in the Secretariat,  have not been satisfactorily carried into effect -  even after nearly fifteen years have passed since  their enunciation and after repeated references  have been made by many delegations of Asia and  Africa; Attempts have been made from time to  time in favour of increasing the membership of the  Executive Board with a view to including in it repre-  sentatives from under-represented regions of Asia  and Africa. But what has been the result? As the  last elections have clearly shown, the perpetual  domination of the Executive Board by the same few  countries remains unchanged. A new attempt is now  being made to increase the membership of the Board  from the present strength of 24 to 26 nr even to 30,  My delegation ir genuinely pessimistic as to the out-  come, If it is the aim of the General Conference to  balance the geographical representation in the  Board by this attempted increase, it is feared that  as long as the lobbying system prevails the expected  results may not ensue. In this regard my delegation  would like to associate itself with the views expressed  by our colleagues from Broil end Iran. Instead of  increasing the membership, the principle of ratation  and reduction of the period of service of each member   PLENARY  might be adopted. Perhaps the General Conference  may agree that the major powers ‘of the world should  have perpetual membership, in view of their acknow-  ledged capacity to make contributions both material  and intellectual; for this purpose up to eight seats  might be reserved, Thé remaining 15 or 0 seats .  might rotate among thé other Member Stites aécord-  ing to seniority of meinbership in this Organisation.
13.10 Before conéluding, 1 wish to record that  bureaucratic procedures have slowly but surely crept  into the working of the Secretariat, ' Except for the  Western Européan members, most of us have come here  trom far-flung countries of the world at gréat expense  to our national coffers, ‘ What do we find here? - In  the various commissions, committees, working  parties, etc., we cannot do ‘more than add a comma  or change an adjective in the wording of the pro-  gramme and budget, For example, several delega-  tions do not appear to be well disposed towards the  appointmént of the folirth Assistunt Director-General,  Their interventions in the Programme Commission  are testimony to this fact. What is the result? -  "Leave it to the discretion of the Director-General  and the Executive Board" If this so-called administra-  tive tact, which agsures that whatever the Secretariat  proposes must at all costs be carried out, is not  called bureaucracy, what then is bureaucracy? Under  these circumstances, we might as well not come to  a General Conference at great expense to our govern-  ments. The purpose of the Conference may be fully  served by the dispatch, by the respective education  ministries of the Member States, of correspondence  concerning minor changes in drafting, After all, the  proposed ‘Programme and Budget" in thé grey book  is as good as already approved. We might as well  save ourselves time and money and not enrich the  world's major airlines by coming across half the  globe merely to say "Yes" to everything in the grey  book,
13.11 Finally, Mr, President, I would like to ex-  press my Government's’ ‘opinions on the question of  tho membership of the People's Republic of Chima.  The Constitution of Unesco explicitly states the uni-  versality of ita membership, - irrespective of race,  religion or the political affiliations of the countries  concerned, The Government of the Union of Burma  regrets that the General Conference has not yet seen  fit to implement the ideals of Unesco in this regard.  For Unesco to be able to contribute effectively to-  wards the lessening of tension and the maintenance  of peace among the nations of the world, it is essen-  tial that we should not lose sight of the noble aims  set out in the Preamble to our Constitution,
14. The PRESIDENT:
1 have the pleasure of calling upon H.E, Dr, Kahuda,  Minister of Education and Chairman of the delegation  of Czechoslovakia,
15,1 Mr. KAHUDA (Czechoslovakia) (Translation  from the Russian):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, allow me  during this general discussion to make an appraisal,  - on behalf of the delegation of the Czechoslovak  Socialist Republic, of the work of Unesco during the  past period and at the same time give my opinion on  the Director-General's report.
15.2 Important changes have taken place in inter-  national life and in the lives of a number of individual  countries during the period under review, The  socialist countries, including. may own, havé achieved  unprecedented successes in developing their economy  and culture, Many peoples, and abové all the peoples  of Africa, have finally cast off the chains of colonial-  ist oppression in a mighty battle for rtiotal libera-  tion, and have embarked on a new and happier road  of economic and cultural development,’ The period  since the last session of the General Conference  has been inarked by tremendéus progress in science  and technique, This, while it creates the pre-  conditions for giant steps in the educational and cul-  tural advancement of the peoples of the world, also  creates, in the hands of certain irresponsible ruling  circles, a continual threat to peace, to human life  and to the flowering of culture and art.
15.3 It ia only proper, of course, that all interna-  tional organizations should express their points of  view on these important problems, in conformity  with their aims and objectives; and Unesco too,  should support the progress of science, education  and culture with the weight of all its authority and  bend its efforts to ensuring that these noble fruits  of human labour shall be preserved from the conflagra-  tion of war.
15.4 The fundamental guarantee for the free de-  velopment of science and culture ir the world is the  peaceful coexistence of nations and genéral arid com-  plete disarmament, It is desirable, therefore, that  our international Organization, for education, science  and culture, above all, should act more energetically  in achieving these goals. Our delegation accordingly  endorses most heartily the point made by Nikita  Sergeevitcli Khrushchev in his message to our Con-  ference to the effnct that scientific and cultural  workers cannot remain neutral in this great struggle  for peace nor indifferent to the righteous struggle  of the oppressed peoples fighting for their national  liberation,
15.5 The Director-General's report and Unesco's  entire activity must be considered srom the stand-  point ofthe general interests and needs of all peoples.  We cannot but criticize the Director-General's  failure to include in his report a full account of the  execution of the resolution of the 55th session of the  Executive Board concerning general and complete  disarmament, This resolution, which unanimously  developed the resolution adopted by the United Nations  on the subject, is unquestionably a document of a  most important and decisive nature, and we should  discuss it most carefully in the light of the character  and possibilities of Unesco's work,
15,6 It is quite certain, ladies and gentlemen, that  the peoples and States which have liberated them-  selves from the colonial yoke, or are in process of  doing so, deserve the utmost attention and support  at the present time, The number of thesé young  African States ia growing apace, and they all need  effective help on a broad scale not only in terms of  their economy but also in terms of education and  cultural development.
15,7 But Unesco approaches this problem in a  most peculiar way, Instead of conducting its activi-  ties for helping the underdeveloped countries in  accordance with a well-considered plan providing   Xvi  for short and long-range targets for sich assistance,  it fragments ite assistance programme into minor  activities of secondary importance which are of inter-  est to only a small jumber of experts, and  puts the emphasis on the so-called "apolitical"  character of ita work,
15,8 The fact ia, however, ‘that these great prob-  lems can be solved only with the participation of  large numbers of scientific, cultural and educational  workers and the use of all available funds (and they  are not inconsiderable, incidentally). Unesco's  budget must be rationally concentrated on the execu-  tion of the moat important undertakings, after ex-  ploiting every possibility for increasing these  resources by reducing the inflated machinery of  Unesco to normal size through the application of  more efficient methods of organization and work,  We must also stop dispersing resources in financing  a large number of minor projecta, What happens in  practice is this: if Unesco is engaged in solving  major problems requiring additional expenditure,  the extra funds are usually found by increasing mem-  ber's contributions instead of the budget being care-  fully scrutinized and the necessary adjustments made,
15.9 What the new African States neud above all is  economic help, but the help given must be of genuine  use in promoting their economy and culture. In other  words, we must help them to expand their production  of raw materials and build factories to process those  materials, We must give them help in mechanizing  their agriculture, in organizing and developing educa-  tion, in building schools and hospitals, and so on,  "Agsistance'"" which produced even more profits for  the monopolies and continued the exploitation of these  countries and their peoples in another guise would be  valueless, The inadequate training of teachers and  of educational and scientific workers from the ranks  of the African peoples themselves is an obstacle in  practice to the gpeedy emancipation of the African  peoples, as Mr, Adiseshiah has already pointed out  in his statement, illustrated by staggering facts  which are a trond towards nencolonialism seeking  once again to fetter the hands of these peoples  marching along the road to free development. They  reveal relations based on inequality as far as these  peoples are concerned,
15.10 The countries of the saoctalist camp, on the  other hand, seek to offer these peoples the help they  need in order to liquidate the heritage of colonial  oppression as rapidly as possible,” The idea behind  this assistance is to help these countries to create  all the conditions necessary for their successful  independent economic growth, to promote their educa-  tion and culture, and to provide medical services by  their own efforts. I should like once again, on behalf  of the Czechoslovak delegation and in the spirit of  these ideals to welcome all the African peoples and  countries, now free or becoming free of the colonial  yoke, and to wish them, on behalf of my Government  and the whole of the Czechoslovak people, complete  victory over the colonialists and the successful  development of their countries. I assure them that  our Republic is ready to give them all the necessary  help, ,
15,11 I also warmly greet the herolc Cuban people,  whose struggle for freedom has won our fullest  sympathy, All attempts to change the path taken by  PLENARY
272  MEETINGS  the Cuban people are dangerous to the cause of inter-  national ynderstañding and ço-operation, The events  in Cuba indicate better than anything else, ladies  and gentlemen, that the efforts of the imperialists  to scare the new States which have achieved free-  dom with the bogey of communism have suffered  defeat and have ceased to have any effect although  certain monopolistic circles, aided by their govern:  ments, do not shrink from threatening them with  aggressive action,
15.12 We cannot approve Unesco's view that the  question ralsed by Cuba represents no threat to,  peace, that it has a specially political character,  and that Unesco is not competent to consider if, Nor  can we agree that Unesco should blink the fact that  the media of the press, the radio, television and the  cinema - that is, the media of education and informa-  tion - are being used for aggressive purposes ina  number of countries,
15,13 These phenomena are to be seen not only in  one State but in a whole number of States, In Europe,  we see hostile propaganda being directed by the war-  mongers in the Federal Republic of Germany ajainst  the Czechoslovak Republic, the German Democ-atic  Republic, Poland, the Soviet Union and other socialist  countries, À great deal of money is being spent on  this propaganda with the aim of creating a revanchist  frame of mind among the population and preparing  the ground ideologically for a new military adventure,  These dangerous activities by the Federal Republic  of Germany have a pernicious effect on the education  of Western German youth especially as the textbooks  and manuals in that country are not such as to ensure  that education is provided in a spirit of mutual under-  standing, coexistence and international co-operation -  a fact to which the President of our Republic, Mr.  Novotnÿ, drew attention in his report to the United  Nations, E
15,14 Scientific workers and clear-thinking teachers  need no convincing that education, science and cul-  ture, on the one side, and the politics of a country  or society, on the other, are inseparably linked.  T/nes;o is required, in consonance with its set tasks  avd with all the means at its disposal, to oppose  these tendencies so dangerous for mankind, and to  support in every way the idea of neighbourly and  peaceful relations between peoples, for this is  completely in line with Unesco's mission, Unesco's  international authority would be much enhanced if it  were to act in th's way.
16.15 The authority of our Organization through-  out the world would also be enhanced if it were to  become a genuinely universal body comprising  representatives of all States, and if it renounced  unjustified discrimination against States, We are  constant witnesses of how Unesco contimies to remain  the sphere of activity of only one group of States, namely  the capitalistic States, that it has become an instrument  for their ideology and even a means whereby those States  seekto influence the ideology of other States, including  the socialist unes, This is happening, moreover, ata  time when the aim of our Organization should be to  co-ordinate and disseminate the practical experience  of all Member States. The existence of such discrimina-  tion within an international organization which is  called upon to decide on major questions of science  and culture is completely inadmissible.   PLENARY
15,16 Our view is that the Unesco Secretariat staff  fails to match up to those tasks which the socialist  and neutralist countries haye placed before the  Organization. The Czechoslovak delegztion not only  agrees with the critical remarks made by the repre-  sentative of Peru concerning the bureaucratic nature  of the Unesco Secretariat apparatus, but insistently  demands that this apparatus be reorganized so as to  have three Secretaries, corresponding to the three  main groups of States represented in Unesco, in  place of the one-man direction of the Secretariat  which has existed hitherto,
15,17 The fact that such countries as the People's  Republic of China, the German Democratic Republic,  the Democratic Republic of Viet-Nam, the  Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the  Mongolian People's Republic have not taken their  places in the ranks of our Organization is in flat  contradiction with Unesco's intereats, These  countries are endowed, in fact, with spiritual values  and material resources which could be of immediate  service in Unesco's activities.
15.18 We consider that Unesco will only become a  universally recognized international Organization for  education, science and culture when it takes account  of the changed situation in the world and draws the  corresponding conclusions for its work,
15.19 The Czechoslovak Socialist Republic has given  much thought, especially latterly, to making Unesco's  work generally useful. I could enumerate a whole  host of efforts conducted in Czechoslovakia during  the past two years in connexion with education,  science and culture to strengthen peaceful co-  operation and international understanding. I need  only cite, as examples the two annual music festi-  vals "Springtime in Prague", the international film  festival at Karlovy Vary in 1960 and the international  amateur film festival at Mariénské Lézné. These  undertakings of ours bave a precise goal and pro-  gramme; to provide a demonstration of different  peoples! cultural values in order to develop a mutual  knowledge and appreciation of them and thereby  foster international understanding.
15,20 They were slso of importance for the imple-  mentation of Unesco's programme at the international  Jevel, having obvious significance as a means of  acquainting the East and the Weat with each other's  cultural values, I might mention at this point the  activities conducted in Czechoslovakia in direct  collaboration with Unesco, I am thinking, in particu-  lar, of the international seminar on the work of clubs  for adult education and the important international  conference of physicists which discussed the problem  of semi-conductors - a conference which in the opinion  of the experta ranked as one of the major natural  science gatherings held by Unesco in recent years,
15,21 The Czechoslovak Socialist Republic has  played an important part in the execution of Unesco's  Major Projects during the period under review. In  fartherance of the Project on the Improvement of  Primary Education in Latin America, the Czechoslovak  National Commission made grants available to out-  standing educational workers from 11 Latin American  countries for studying school questions, The Com-  mission, with Unesco support alco made available
24 short-term grants for young teachers and cultural  workers from countries of the Far Fast.  XVI  NEETINOS
15,22 ' Czechoslovak science also made a signifi-  cant contribution to Unesco's activity, Czechoslovak  oriental studies were reinforced by the eddition of  two new centres to the operational network; an  Oriental Department in Bratislava and the  Czechoslovak Institute of Egyptology of Charles IV  (Prague) University in Cairo. The latter, which  has been provided by the Czechoslovak Government  with all the necessary funds, has been instructed to  take part in Unesco's work in saving the momunents  of Nubia, and has already taken action in this  connexion. :
15.23 In addition to voluminous scientific’ works,  more than 200 books acquainting readers with the  cultural values of the peoples of Asia and Africa  have been published in Czechoslovakia during the  past two years, one important Czechoslovak under-  taking for promoting knowledge of the East 16 the  initiation of the second stage of the round-the-world  expedition of the Czechoslovak travellers Sigmund  and Hanselka, whose journey in 1959 and 1960 took  them through most of the countries of Asia and  Oceania. The travellers dispatches, which dre  communicated to thé public by radio, film and press,  and which describe the contemporary life and cul-  tural traditions of the peoples of the countries of  the East, are followed with the keenest interest,
15.24 Indeed, steady interest is shown in  Czechoslovakia in Unesco's activities in general,  Czechoslovakia holds one of the first places for  press and radio coverage of Uneaco, and the main  reason for this is that small though it is from the  territorial standpoint, it is the home of a people  celebrated for its industry and love of peace.  Czechoslovakia, with its centuries and wealth of  tradition, has already made a sizeable contribution  to the history of Europe. It is a country which is  highly developed economically and has a high stand-  ard of living, as the Director-General, Mr, Vittorino  Veronese, was able to see for himself during his  gay there,
15.25 During the past fifteen years, industrial  production has increased four-fold as compared with
1937, when Czechoslovakia was of course already  one of ‘the economically developed countries. During  the psriod of the first two five-year plans alone, we  have achieved results, thanks to the sosialist plan-  ning of economy, which would formerly have been  impossible to achieve in the course of several  decades. Czechoslovakia has become a socialist  country, and is resolutely pursuing the path of  socialist construction, with the volume of production  scheduled under the third five-year plan to be six  times greater than in 1837, We are proud of these  successes, and of our country's glorious and pro-  gressive traditions which we are developing ir. the  spirit of the ideals of our times, in the spirit of the  great humane principles of socialism and commun-  ism, …
15.26 We have also achieved unprecedented suc-  cesses during these past few years Inthe development  of our education, We now have a nine-year general  gecondary school in Czechoslovakia attended by all  -our children from six to fifteen years of age, and  we have set ourselves the target of reaching a posi-  tion in 1970 where the majority of our young people  are able to continue their education at more advanced   XVI PLENARY  schools and colleges and obtain a school-leaving  certificate on completing the full secondary course.
15.27 - In the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic with  its thirteen million people; there are now fifty higher  educational establishments, including ari schools and  tracher-training colleges, with 111 faculties catering  for more than 78, 000 students; Of the latter, more  than 50, 000 are full-time students and 21,000 are  external students who continue to work at their -  regular jobs, but are provided with extensive facili-  ties. There ere 59 university students for every
10,000 of the population, Before the Second World  War, in the academic year 1936-1937, there were,  in the capitalistic Republic, only 13 higher educational  establishments with 52 faculties and 27, 000 students:  in socialist Czechoslovakia, the number of such  establishments is four times greater and the number  of students three times greater than in the earlier  period, _ ve
16.28 These are irrefutable facts which bespeak  the superiority of socialism, If we add the fact that  all the young people studying this year at basic general  secondary schools and intermediate schools in  Czechoslovakia receive all textbooks and school  equipment, such as fountain pens, free of charge,  and also bear in mind that next year it is proposed  to supply the students at all universities with free  textbooks and manuals, that in the very early future  all schoolchildren and ‘students will have free trans-  port on trains, buses and trams, and that the entire  cost of meals at day nurseries and kindergartens  for children of large families - i.e. those with three  or more children - is borne entirely the the socialist  State, this gives all the Member States of our Organiza-  tion a clear picture of what can be done for education  under socialism.
15,28 Science in Czechoslovakia is required to co-  operate to the utmost in promoting economic and cul-  tural progress and in fulfilling the tagk of outstrip-  ping the economic and cultural demands of society,  and is developed on the basis of a long-terni plan  in correlation with the planning of all spheres of  national life. The successful work of Czechoslovak  scientists is well known, with th»ir reports at many  international conferences on new discoveries in the  ~ 274  MEETINGS  field of power resources, nuclear physics and tech-  nology, blology, chemistry, medicine and so on,  Last year, a distinguished Czechoslovak chemist,  Professor Jaroslav Heyrovsky, was awarded the  Nobel Prize. …
15,30 The Czechoslovak delegation has come to  this Conference, ladies and gentlemen, with a  number of proposals designed to promote international  co-operation to the maximum and to contribute to-  wards the fulfilment of Unesco's tasks, One of them  is a draft resolution calling for the establishment of  an International Institute for Cell Research, which  would be of great assistance for international research  in this field, while another concerns support for films  for youth, Czechoslovakia recommends; in agree-  ment with other delegations that Unesco should pay  the utmost attention to this important medium for  aducating children and popularizing scientific achieve-  ments, Another proposal is that Unesco should in-  clude in its commemorations of great personalities,  the centenary of the death in 1862 of the distinguished  Czech authoress and champion of democracy and -  women's rights, Bozena Nemcova. Lastly there is  a draft resolution drawing international attention to  the danger of young people being educated in a spirit  of colonialism, racial and national superiority and  intolerance, in a spirit of fascism, revanchism and  militarism,
15.31 Our delegation trusts that these proposals,  formulated by wide circles of the Czechoslovak pub-  lic for communication to the General Conference  will be given the eleventh session's favourable con-  sideration.
15,32 Mr, President and fellow delegates, I can  assure you, on behalf of my Government, that the  Czechoslovak Socialist Republic will continue to  follow the path of prugress and peace, and that it  will support every initiative taken by Unesco to pro-  mote the development of peaceful coexistence and  the maintenance of lasting peace.
16, The PRESIDENT:  The meeting is now closed.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.