14 December 1960, at 11.25 a,m. ;  President : Mr. Wilhelm MARINELLI (Austria)  CONTENTS  Adoption of the Third Report of the Administrative Com-  mission , . 8205 0 020000 110 0 0 4 0 0 0 000 0 454  Adoption of the Fourth Report of the Administrative Com-  mission .. . 6 ++ +4 4 0 1 0 00 0 06600 0 0 4 0000 455  Adoption of the Report of the Programme Commission on  Part II of the Proposed Programme and Budget for
1961-1962. . . . + 0 4 100 0 000 hese ae ea . 455  ADOPTION OF THE THIRD REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE  COMMISSION
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  I call the meeting to order. Fellow delegates,  ladies and gentlemen, there is a good deal of work  to be done in these last sessions of the Conference  and therefore we ghould waste no time, I would like  nevertheless to ask your permission to make a few  personal remarks, Firstly, 1 should like to express  my gratitude to the delegations for the honour they  did my country in electing the former Head of our  delegation, Dr, Frieberger, as one of the Vice-  Presidents of this Conference,
1.2 Secondly, in accepting the honour of taking the  . Chair at this plenary meeting, I want to ask your  help, not only because I shall not be using my mother  tongue but a foreign language - and 1 beg my friends  from England end the United Statés to excuse the  crimes 1 may commit against their language - but  for another reason also. What we have to do is  commoth work - team work; it is something that one  of the previous Presidents, I think it was our dis-  tinguished colleague from Brazil, H, E. Mr. Carneiro,  has compared with the work of an orchestra, where  everyone has to play his part correctly if the harmony  of the symphony is to be brought out. But there is a  difficulty in that nobody has a score or even a part  score before him, but is completely free to say  whatever he wishes, - This freedom of expression is  guaranteed in the Rules of Procedure of the Confer-  ence, Therefore, 1-would like to ask you to bear  constantly in mind that in such common work every-  one has only to contribute to the whole, and,to pursue  the analogy with the player in the orchestra, must  sacrifice a bit of his pride of virtuosity, He has  only to contribute, to give a part to the whole, for  only then will thé harmony of the symphony be ex-  presved, ;  . 1.8 - Lastly, I should like to remind you that outside  this hall, and outside of Unesco, there are millions  of people who expect that Unesco will give some help.
454  Some of them are in urgent need of help - millions of  children and aged men and women, What we are  doihg and should do is, in a sense, to build up a  momentum, so that later the staff of Unesco can  fulfil and execute the programme, This is our duty,  and what the world expects from us is not an endless  quarrel about theoretical definitions but deeds, deeds  in helping them to the better life that we are sure and  convinced comes from education, from science and  culture. 1 should like to ask everyone who comes to  the floor to concentrate on this aim of our common  work, 10 ;
1.4 The first item on the agenda is the third  report of the Administrative Commission (document
11 C/48 Addendum 2) concerning recruitment and  promotion of staff. The Rapporteur, Mr. Dovey,  will now present his report to the Conference.
2.1 Mr, DOVEY (United Kingdom), Rapporteur of  the Administrative Commission:  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Confer-  ence will recall that when I presented the third report  of the Administrative Commission yesterday, I indi-  cated that it did not deal with item 24, 5 of the egenda  - recruitment and promotion of staff - and that this  subject would be dealt with in an addendum to the  report. This addendum is the document now before  you, 11 C/48 Add. 2,
2.2 I think that I need add very little to what is said  in the document, but I would draw the attention of the  Conference to the fact that after long and animated  initial discussion the proposals put forward by the  Director-General on the recruitment and promotion  of staff were referred to u working party of the Com-  mission. This working party drew up the resolution  which now appears in paragraph 327 of document
11 C/48 Add, 2, and which was subsequently unani-  mously approved by the Commission, I have tha  honour, on behalf of the Commission, to recommend  it for adoption by the Conference.
2.3 While I am on the rostrum I think that I can  conveniently deal with a small point which has arisen   PLEXARY MEETIXOS  in connexion with the-report which the Conference  adopted yesterday. The Chairman of the Administra-  tive Commission has asked me to say; in connexion  with the Conference's decision on the Member States  to serve on the Unesco Staff Pension Committee  during the years 1961-1962, that a change is now  necessary, The Conference may wish to refer to  the text which it adopted yesterday and which is con-  tained in Part C of document 11 C/48, paragraph 341,  the last of the three resolutions in that paragraph.
2.4 The Government of Chile has informed the  Organization that it will be unable to serve on the  Unesco Staff Pension Committee. The Chairman of  the Administrative Commission accordingly pror~ies  that the General Conference should amend the rz-vlu-  tion adopted yesterday by electing Costa Rica in the  place of Chile as a member of the Unesco Staff Pension  Committee,
3.1 The PRESIDENT:  You have heard the report of the Rapporteur. If  there are no objections we shall consider it adopted.
3.2 The resolution concerning the recruitment and  promotion of staff (document 11 C/48 Add. 2) and the  resolution concerning the election of members to the  Unesco Staff Pension Committee are adopted.  ADOPTION OF THE FOURTH REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE  COMMISSION
3.3 The Rapporteur will continue his presentation  of the report, :
4.1 Mr, DOVEY (United Kingdom), ‘Rapporteur of  the Administrative Commission : -  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I nowpre-  sent the fourth report of the Administrative Com-  mission contained in document 11 C/51. As indicated  in the first paragraph, this document deals with féur  distinct but related subjects on which the Administra-  tive Commission considered reports by the Head-  quarters Committee, These four subjects are: the  financing of expenditure still outstanding in connexion  with the present headquarters buildings, the drawing  up of the final statement of this expenditure, the  additional headquarters premises required by the  Organization, and the future of the Headquarters  Committee. -
4.2 The first two subjects did not long engage the  attention of the Commission and they rapidly agreed  to put forward for adoption by the General Confer-  ence the two resolutions contained in paragraphs 3  and 5, respectively. .
4.3 On the other hand, the third question before  the Commission of the additional headquarters pre-  mises required by the Organization was the subject  of a long and animated discussion, the main lines of  which are described in paragraphs 6 to 16 of the  report. A number of delegations were opposed to  the proposal for a fourth building and the delegation  of the USSR introduced a formal proposal to the effect  that the Conference should decide, in principle, that  a fourth building should not be built, The voting on  this proposal is given in paragraph 10 of the report.
4.4 The resolution finally approved by the Com-  mission, and which it recommends for adoption by
465  XXIX  the General Conference, is set out at the end of  paragraph 17. The Conference will remember that  when I introduced the resolution on the Working  Capital Fund put forward by the Commission, I  referred to the paragraph in it which was conse-  quential on the conclusions which the Commission  had come to with regard to additional headquarters  buildings, The Conference may wish to note that the  relevant part of the resolution now before it is para-  graph 7(c) in Part III,
4.5 The final item in this report is the future of  the Headquarters Committee which is the subject of  paragraphs 18 and 19 and of the resolution at the end  of paragraph 19, Mr. President, this concludes my  presentation of the fourth report of the Administra-  tive Commission.
6.1- The PRESIDENT :
1 thank the Rapporteur for this report presented  by the Commission, and if there are no objections  I propose that we take a vote on the report as a whole,  (The vote was taken by a ghow of hands)
5.2 The results of the vote are as follows: 66 in  favour, none against, and 7 abstentions. The fourth  report of the Administrative Commission is therefore  adopted.  ADOPTION OF THE REPORT OF THE PROGRAMME COMMISSION  ON PART [I OF THE PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR
5.3 The next item of the agenda - and I think we  should hére express our very deep gratitude to the  Director-General and his staff for the immense work  accomplished in the production of docuraent 11 C/6 -  is the adoption of the report of the Programme Com-  mission on Part II of the Proposed Programme and  Budget for 1961-1962 (document 11 C/36).
5.4 .1I shall now call upon the Director-General.
6. The DIRECTOR-GENERAL (Translatioti from  the French) : ;  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, before you  begin your examination of the report of the Pro-  gramme Commission, allow me to express my most  sincere gratitude, both on iny own behalf and on that  of the Secretariat, to the Administrative Commission  to its distinguished Chairman, to the Bureau of that  Commission and, in particular, to its Rapporteur.  I hope that Mr. Barén Castro and Mr, Dovey will  accept this expression of my gratitude for the work  they have done and for the way in which they have  respectively conducted and reported the discussions  of the Administrative Commission.
7. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon Mr, François, the Chairman of the  Programme Commission, to present his report.
81 Mr. FRANÇOIS (France), Chairman of the  Programme Commission (Translation from the  French) : :  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf  of the Programme Commission, of which I have the   XXIX .  honour to be Chairman, I am bringing you an adopted  programme ‘and a balanced bydget’ with only two days’  delay. I say "only two däya' delay" because the work  of the Commission has been so tremendous that we  have no sense of guilt, The Programme Commission  has never had so many documents to examine nor so  many decisions to take.‘ And I should like, first and  foremost, ladies and gentlemen, to give you some  idea of the magnitude and importance of the task  which now devolves upon the Programme Commission,  and I am thinking not only of this session but also of  those to come,
8.2 First of all, most Member States were repre-  sented on our Commission and its debates were very  well attendéd. Whereas the Organization had only
73 members in 1956 and 75 in 1958, in 1960 there  were 98 members representea on the Programme  Commission, not including Associate Members and  observers. And we were not only obliged to plan  working sessions, properly speaking, for our Com-  mission, but at the same time a whole series of  special committees were holding meetings and  thereby facilitating its work. Nine working parties  were set up and did excallent work - three of them  dealt with the educational field (Tropical Africa,  international instrument concerning technical and  vocational education, Convention against discrimina-  tion in education), three with the field of natural  sciences (current development of science, oceano-  graphy and arid lands), two with the cultural field  (Nubia, and History of the Scientific and Cultural  Development of Mankind) and, finally, the ninth,  which we regard as absolutely essential and whose  conclusions we expect to be of the greatest interest  for the future, was set up to examine the presenta-  tion of the future programme,
8.3 Our Commission likewise adopted a very  large number of resolutions. In the course of 51  meetings, we adopted over 300 - roughly six per  meeting - and I may say that each of these resolu-  tions was very carefully studied, every word they  contained was considered and discussed and they  were adopted only after discussions which were  very long but also very interesting, perhaps the  more interesting the longer they were, since they  showed that delegates were keenly interested in  these matters.
8.4 They occupied such an important place in the  work of our Commission that I looked up the defini-  tion of a resolution, Well, it is'a very odd fact, but  if you consult a large dictionary you will find that  there are twelve different meanings of the word  "resolution", ranging from one extreme to the other,  Those of you who handled these resolutions will be  interested to know that the first meaning of the word  "resolution" is the complete disappearance of con-  sistence; we say that a resolution of snow into water  took place and thus this word "resolution" begins by  meaning the absence of any consistence, the absence  of any.resolution, “And it is only gradually that we  find the meaning taking on firmness and solidity,  since the twelfth meaning is “firmness, courage,  decision", "resolution is boldness of mind". Cur  own resolutions come under meaning no. 6: "project  formed, plan decided on'.. But I wonder, after all,  if it 18 not the whole sequence of meanings which  really represents the nature of a resolution: it  ~
456  PLUENARY MEETINGS .  begins by having only very slight consistence, it is  a product of the mind - the mind of the Secretariat  or the minds of the delegates who proposed a great  many - over 200! It is a somewhat vague and im-  precise idea but one which gradually acquires con-  sistence and firinness in the text itself. And it may  be wondered whether, when the discussions begin,  the resolution which had acquired the solidity of a  written docuinent does not revert to its first mean-  ing - "completé disapearance of consistence" -  since each in turn tries to transform it, to turn it  into something else, It is only gradually, little by  little, that the resolution emerges in its new text,  wholly clear and decisive,
8.5 "Resolution of snow into water" - such was the  case with the resolutions we studied: they were  "snow", they became "water" during our discussions,  and, at the end of the discussions, emerged not as  "snow" but as "ice", solid and pure, acceptable to  all.
8.6 But we did not only examine, discuss and adopt’  over 300 resolutions: we also adopted an extremely  important draft convention on the prevention of dis-  crimination in education, whereby we confirmed on
10 December - the anniversary of the Universal  Declaration of Human Rights - one of the rights  which our Organization holds dearest and which is  perhaps the most important to be preserved and fos-  tered throughout the world - the right to education  - education, round which most of our discussions  centred.
8.7 We also approved averylarge budget and, need-  less to say, this was done in the face of considerable  difficulties : barely forty-eight hours ago we found  ourselves in an awkward situation since we had ex-  ceeded the budget ceiling set us by the General Con-  ference by $1,250,000. We were therefore com-  pelled to reconsider all our work and go back to the  figure which had been set,
8.8 This adjustment was an extremely difficult .  task since, throughout our work, we had continually  stressed the contrast betwéen, on the one hand, the  immense educational, scientific and cultural needs of  the world and, on the other, the extremely modest  sums which were allocated to us - much larger sums,  it is true, than in previous years but none the less  ridiculously small compared to all that people need  at the present time,
8.9 Nevertheless we succeeded in balancing the  budget, thanks to the spirit of generous understanding  shown by all the delegates and thanks also to the  efforts made by the Secretariat, which itself pro-  posed many cuts on this occasion,
8.10 As a result, we managed to adopt a budget of
56 million dollars for the programme alone, whereas  in 1958, es you know, the Programme Commission  voted a budget of 27 million dollars.
8.11 We therefore have a budget which is double  that of 1958 and the Organization has never before  made so spectacular an advance, In the past, when  the Organization's budget increased by 5, 10 or 15%,  it was regarded in some quarters as a positive  scandal, in others as a reason for great hope and  rejoicing. But such increases are as nothing com-  pared to the increase in the budget we are submitting  over those of previous years,
8.12 In 1958, the Programme Commission voted   PLENARY MEETINGS  a regular budget of 19 million dollars; this year, the  Regular budget has risen to 23,745,000 dollars,
8.13 The most striking, impressive and reassuring  progress, however, has been made in respect of the  Expanded Programme of Technical Assistance and  the remarkable and beneficial United Nations Special  Fund, ,
8.14 In 1958, the Programme Commission had,  not adopted, but simply taken into account a sum of
8 million dollars from United Nations Technical  Assistance. This year, the figure has risen to 12  million dollars, representing a 50% increase in the  funds on which Unesco can draw under the Expanded  Programme of Technical Assistance for the next two  years, :
8.15 At the present time, the Expanded Programme  of Technical Assistance is financed by 80 countries  and Unesco's share amounts to 17% of the total funds  available under this programme; this increase will  enable Unesco, inter alia, to send 400 experts on  mission throughout the world instead of 200 and to  award 400 fellowships instead of 200.
8.16 To the above sum must be added the 20.  million dollars which the Organization is to receive  from the United Nations Special Fund.
8.17 It is not enough, however, to mention these  three major budgets only - Unesco's Regular budget,  the budget of the Expanded Programme of Technical  Assistance and the budget of the Special Fund, Apart  from these, we have approved the setting up of special  accounts; and we have given the Secretariat wide  powers to co-operate with the International Develop-  ment Association and the Inter-American Development  Bank, In addition to all this multilateral and inter-  national aid, there will also be, of course, the bi-  lateral aid offered by various nations to countries in  process of development, Thus there are now sub-  stantial resources available for the development of  education, science and culture all over the world,  and these resources are constantly incretsing, so  that more and more activities can be undertaken.
8.18 There is only one respect in which 1 should  be somewhat uneasy if I were the representative of  a country in process of development - and, more-  over, as a French delegate, I do, in a sense, re-  present such a country, since all countries are in  process of development ; and this is a magnificent  fact which we should recognize - that all nations and  all societies are developing, whichever they may be.  If 1 represented one of those countries requesting  technical assistance, thén, I should be somewhat at  a loss, I should wonder on which door to knock  because there are, in fact, a great many doors -  Unesco's Regular budget, the budget of the Expanded  Programme of Technical Assistance, the United  Nations Special Fund, Unesco's Special Accounts,  the International Development Association, the Inter-  American Development Bank, and various countries  which ¢an open accounts in dollars or any other  currency to encourage development ; I should  perhaps feel a little like someone from the country  arriving in Wall Street and not knowing too clearly,  amidst all the gigantic banks, which one to approach  in order to obtain the necessary assistance on the  best terms.
8.19 International existence is perhaps somewhat  complicated these days by all this series of
457  xXIX  ‘organizations which sometinies and in certain fields  overlap and which may tend to alarm those who  require their assistance. But the needs are immense  let us not baulk at the number of sources of dollars  which may serve to meet them,
8.20 ‘ Our task has not only been extremely im-  portant but alño I think very interesting. I should  like to say furthwith that we were obliged to handle  too many documents ; each meeting began with a  listing of all the papers we needed and it is certain  that for five or ten minutes the speakers could not  be heard because of the suund of papers being  shuffled, shifted, turned over in an effort to find the  right document or the right paragraph in the docu-  ment quoted, I was appalled to discover that, as  Chairman; I was not only, so to speak, in charge  of 98 delegations - all ‘of ‘them absolutely attentive,  orderly and uiiderstandin}}, and I thank them again  for their co-operation which made it possible for us  to be here this morning - but that l'was Also in charge  of an ocean of papér. The Programme Commission,  in fact, received a million copies of documents in  the 11 C/PRG series, such as 26, 28, 35, and in the  DR series, such as DR/62 revised once, twice or  three times. One million copies were poured in this  way into our hall. This, obviously, was a somewhat  terrifying flood of paper and we had to navigate on its  waves. We succeeded, but it was riot always very  easy and I hope - I very much hope - that the Work-  ing Party concerned with the question will be able to  suggest methods of simplifying the documentation.
8.21 Nevertheless, I believe that for the firat  time we have had a General Conference which  allowed adequate time - even though its time was  limited - for a true exchange of ideas. For thefirst  time, there was a general debate on the programme.  For the first time, the different chapters of the  document were the subject of general discussion,  And, above all, the working parties were so consti-  tuted that specialists, scientists, educators and men  of culture from all parts of the world were really  able to make a thorough study of a problem, had  time in which to exchange their opinions and jointly  seek a solution - all of which was quite impossible  in the past. :
8.22 At earlier sessions, too many delegates -  particularly distinguished delegatés who.were sent by  their countries to attend Unesco's Generäl Confer-  ence - went away disappointed in Unesco, since they  had done nothing! .t discuss a few thousand dollars  here, a few thousand dollars there, thousands of  dollars sometimes deducted, but more often added,  and such discussions were more or less sordid,
8.23 I observed with the keenest interest that  throughout thl'51 meetings of our Programme Com-  mission, discusiions never centred around a few  thousand dollars but that it wis always on ideas, ‘  the presentation of those ideas and the exchange  of ideas that the Commission concentrated all its  work and interest. ‘And I beliève that, accordiugly,  for all the mémbers of this Commission and es-  pecially for the members of the Secretariat who  followed the work so closely, actively and decisively,  the Programme Commission has been a superb organ  of information, a superb organ of reflection and that  the Secretariat's activity in the two years ahead will  be enriched as a result,   XXIX
8.24 _ I also believe that the Programme Commission  provided all of-us with an exceptional meeting ground.  Firstly, for the meeting of what ig always termed  "East" and "West", Some delegates urged peaceful  coexistence, dicarmament and decolonization, whilst  others preferred to speak of peaceful co-operation,  claiming that such co-operation between countries  with different economic and social systems was a  means towards gradual disarmament and decoloniza-  tion, Both sides were able to voice their opinions ;  there were clashes from time to time, but such  clashes rarely went beyond the stage of a somewhat  lively discussion and we almost always succeeded in  obtaining unanimous support for the decislons of our  Commission.
8.25 By way of example, I would like to mention  the famous resolution no. DR/114, which I will not  read to you, submitted by the Czechoslovak delega-  tion and aimed - very rightly, I may add - against  revengeful and militaristic ideas and feelings of  racial superiority, True, the terms of this resolu-  tion were extremely energetic and upset certain  delegations; ns a result, the delegation of the United  Kingdom submitted a counter-proposal, a counter-  resolution, which the Czechoslovak delegation  naturally felt unable to accept. To break the dead-  lock, the Argentine delegation came to our rescue  with a draft resolution which was acceptable to  Czechoslovakia, the United Kingdom and all the  other countries represented on the Programme  Commission, since it took account of the different  viewpoints which had been expressed and which were  strongly opposed at the outset. I should like to read  you this draft resolution no. DR/171 very quickly,  because the unanimous approval with which it met  somehow symbolizes, in my view, the whole spirit  of the Programme Commission :  "The General Conference,  Recalling that, as stated in its Constitution,  Unesco was created 'for the purpose of advancing,  ‘through the educational and scientific and cultural  relations of the peoples of the world, tiie objectives  of international peace and of the common welfare of  mankind for which the United Nations Organization  was established and which its Charter proclaims',  Considering that every display of racial intoler-  ance or alleged national superiority militates against  these fundamental objectives and constitutes a threat  to international peace, security and understanding,  Being of the opinion that a suitable upbringing,  imbued with a spirit of tolerance and objectivity, can  effectively help to eradicale those factors which  oppose the establishment où genuine and lasting inter-  national understanding,  Conderuns any display of intolerance among the  different races or peoples as a violation of the high  principles which prompted the creation of the United  Nations and of Unesco, .  Urgea Member States to redouble their efforts  to ensure that education shall always be based on the  principle of tolerance, the spirit of strict objectivity  and the desire to maintain peaceful relations among  the different nations and races,  Invites the Director-General to consider the  most effective means of contributing in future - in  the field of education - towards ensuring and develop-  ing international understanding, and to report on  ~
458  PLENARY MEETINGS  this subject to the General Conference at its twelfth  session." 12
8.26 You will observe that this resolution, which  was unanimously approved by the Programme Com-  migsion, is both positive and precise. And it was in  this way that each individual was able to assert his  preferences, but at the same time take account of  the preferences of others and, in particular, as  regards this resolution, make peace on the subject  of peace, and for the sake of peace.
8.27 There was also a meeting between what I might  call the former colonized countries and the former  colonizing countries - eventhoughthere have been re-  peated allusions to colonization within the Conference  - 1 should prefer to say : a meetingbetweenthe coun-  tries of Africa andthe countries of Europe, on a foot-  ing of complete equality. On 6 December, for instance,  at a meeting which well constitute alandmark in  Unesco's history, the Programme Commission unani-  mously adopted document 11 C/PRG/29 (another docu-  ment which I have brought along : I could not come wholly  empty-handed!) which I might call the "Charter for  Uneeco's actionin regardtothe countries of Tropical  Africa". I belleve that we shall return to this fundamental  problem in the course of these discussions, butthere  is a resolution 1001 - and in those noughts and in the  figure 1 there is, so to speak, a birth starting from  the nothingness of nought because the figure 1 ig the  figure of birth and here we have the birth of Unesco's  action in respect of Tropical Africa - a resolution  which contains a whole series of absolutely funda-  mental paragraphs, It is my conviction that, if  Unesco remains true to the terms of this resolution,  an enormous amount of beneficient work will be  accomplished in the African territories.
8.28 Meetings, again, between advocates of "basic"  and "applied" research. I remember one very lively  meeting at which oceanography was discussed. Some  States, admittedly, asked that Unesco should con-  centrate pn applied research, on methods of in-  creasing the number of fish in the sea, on ways of  locating and breeding fish, since those countries  were mainly concerned with urgent economic con-  siderations, and with the need to feed a population  already too large and constantly on the increase.  But there were algo other countries, represented  by very great scientists, who urged the need for  fundamental research, the study of currents, plank-  ton, and marine life in general. It was not long  before there was agreement on both sides that only  a general study of ocean living conditions would  really enable us to reach, locate and increase fish.  And those who wanted fish, first and foremost,  ultimately recognized that the loftiest speculations  of oceanography were precisely what led them to this  creature which they so urgently needed.
8.29 There was, then, a meeting and a reconcilia-  tion of fundamental and applied research. There was  also a meeting and a reconciliation between what we  call general activities and what are known as special  activities, or Unesco's programme of direct action,  Some countries, it is true, may have been disturbed  by the great difference in the percentage growth within  Unesco's programme and budget between the general  activities - which are the permanent and continuing  tasks of the Organization - and the special activities:  a 7% increase for regular projects as against a 34%   PLENARY  increase for speclai projects, And many delegates  here will recall the discussion which took place within  the Programme Commission or in thé plenary between  those in fayour of workinthe field and those who thought  priority should be glvento developing international  scientific co-operation at the highest level, because they  considered that to be Unesco's fundamental task,
8,30 This conflict is, I think, now resolyed and we  are all firmly persuaded - ag was clear throughout  the discussions in the Programme Commission - that  all field activities and Technical Assistance work  must, to be really effective, be backed by careful  and lengthy planning, And similarly, we are con-  vinced that work in the field abounds in lessons of  which both educationisis and scientists and scholars  at the highest level should be able to take advantage  for the furtherance of their studies and speculations.
8.31 Thereis thus a continuous movement, a sort of  “conveyor belt" which comesinté existence, from  general activities to special activities, from special  activities to general activities, andl recall the phrase,  at once so simple and so profound, used by one of the dele-  gates in our Programme Commission : we must have  a better idea of what we are going to do. :
8.32 Our Commission also sought to define the  continuine responsibilities of the Organization fairly  strictly. .n this connexion, we all felt that the  development of education is an essential prerequisite  for economic and social development and, likewise,  for the establishment of equality between the nations,  Thus, in the programme submitted to us, along with  the Major Project on the Extension of Primary Educa-  tion in Latin America, we have seen the emergence of  a whole series of other major projects which are  perhaps still in the air and which certain delegates  were perhaps sorry not to see embodied in a more  concrete fashion in the programme, but which are  nonetheless in process of formation in the educational  field in various parts of the world - in South East  Asia, the Arab countries and Tropical Africa,
8.33 We were also of the opinion that one of  Unesco's fundamental and continuing activities is  international scientific co-operation and that, in this  field especially, Unesco should work as often as  possible in close co-operation with the non-govern-  mental organizations, since these comprise special-  ists, people with a full understanding of these ques-  tions, who can be of considerable assistance to Unesco.
8.34 We also considered that it is Unesco's rôle  to co-ordinate certain types of basic research in  various branches of science, such as work on cancer  or the arid lands,
8.35 We all agreed that Unesco should continue to  concern itself with cultural activities and particularly  the great East-West Major Project, which is doing  so much towards the improvement of International  understanding. But there is one new and very inter-  esting trend which I would mention here: several  delegations thought that Unesco's cultural activities  were perhaps too much concerned with the past and  not sufficiently with the present and, above all, the  future. Certaindelegates wanted closer links between  our Organization and contemporary art, between  Unesco andthe artists of today; and the need for this link,  not withthe past,but withthe present and, to some extent,  the future, was also expressed inthe unanimous interest  of delegates in Unesco's work relating to youth.
8,56 We of course reaffirmed our conviction that  Unesco has a vitall important rôle to play throughout  the world in regard to the preservation and promotion  of human rights and the foiitering of better interna-  tional understanding.
8.37 But - and this is of cardinal importance - we  also felt that Unegco could, in case of urgent ne-  cessity, undertake some immediate task of interna-  tional signiticance likely to attract great attention  throughout the world. In this ‘connexion, the Pro-  gramme Commission fully. endorsed all the measures  taken by the Secretariat for saving the monuments of  Nubia and even requested it to extend these measures.
8.38 We also approved the stepa Unesco has taken  for the benefit of the children of the Congo - its  efforts to provide them with teachers, supply educa-  tion and, as far as possible, to protect them from  the tragic events occurring in their country.
8.39 It is rather interesting to note that our Pro-  gramme Commission contributed little towards the  consideration of Unesco's future development In
1963-64; and I wondered why that great debate which  we had stated from the outset of our work would be  the major one (we had called on most delegates for  at least one day's work on the problem) failed to take  place, -
8.40 There were several reasons. Firstly, be-  cause we had an admirable document available - the  one drawn up by Unesco for the Economic and Social  Council - and that document seemed to have the  unanimous approval of the delegations,
8.41 But in addition, if we were unable to specify  what Unesco's main policy should be in the years ahead,  it was because we felt that Unesco had suddenly - in  the course of this presen! session of the Conference -  committed itself to completely new activities and  opened up new vistas which already went very far,  What reason was there to look for another turning-  point in two years' time, when we felt that we had  already passed a particularly significant one? We  believe that all the major decisions and new policies  which we have adopted during this session will cer-  tainly determine Unesco's action not merely for two  years, but for many years to come,
8.42 We intend, of course, that Unesco should  continue to engage in certala major activities which  have built up its fine tradition and won it the con-  fidence of scientists, educationists and men of culture  all over the world: I am thinking, in particular, of  international scientific co-operation, the defence of  human rights and education for better international  understanding. But, as regards the next few years,  the main stress was on the importance to be attached  in Unesco's programmes to, education. Education,  as was sald yesterday, with a capital E - 1, e, the  Education chapter as such should have a certain  priority over the other chapters of the programme.  But also education with a small e - and this means  all the resolutions affecting education which occur  in the other. chapters of the programme, whether in  Natural Sé¢iences, Social Sciences, Cultural Activities  or in Mags Communication.
8,43 This concern with the development of educa-  tion and the need for education is evident not only  in countries in process of development but also in  the so-called old countries, ‘\ose said to be developed  - in other words, in countries like my own, where an   XXIX PLENARY  immense amount of reorganization ‘in education is  vitally necessary. The entire system of general  education requires replanning ; technical education  must be developed far béyond its present stage and an  entirely new type of higher education, quite unlike  any hitherto existing, must be established. Whatever  the economié or social position of individual coun-  tries, whatever their geographical situation, far-  reaching eduSational tasks await accomplishment by  us all and we accordingly believe that in every coun-  try in the world, without exception, our Organization's  primary concern must be with the néeds of education.
8.44 The work of this session of the Conference and  the discussions of the Programme Commission have,
1 am sure, been both useful and heartening to the  majority of delegates, and, at all events, to someone  like myself, who follows the Organization's discus-  sions and activities and who is closely associated  with Unesco by virtue of his own work as an educa-  tionist in his country. Personally, this Conference  has given me a feeling of great optimism.
8.45 In the course of my connexion with Unesco, I  have formulated a number of criticisms and some-  times harsh criticisms, But I must confess that, for  the first time, I have seen the emergence of Unesco  as o great organization, the organization for which we  have hoped since 1946. Its greatness has finally emer-  ged during this eleventh session, but not merely be-  cause it will have twice as many dollars to spend as  in 1958-1959 : the strength and value of Unesco is not  to be measured solely in terms of the millions of  dollars it has at its disposal. No, we claim that a  great organization has emerged because Unesco  seems to have acquired a soul, an inspiration - a  soul and inspiration created and provided by scientists,  artists and educationists ; because we feel, too, that  those responsible for the destiny of our Organization  at the head of the Secretariat have also sought to pro-  duce this great Unesco, which will give far more  powerful impetus to the development of international  * co-operation and will permit the free circulation of  ideas, knowledge and men for the benefit of educa-  tion, science and culture and their adaptation to a  world in the throes of swift and complete evolution.
8.46 We heve seen the emergence of Unesco as a  great organization which will make possible a higher  degree of equality and justice among the nations, in  that the less favoured countries will receive more  and will be able to develop more quickly than they  have done hitherto. For, unless really effective  international aid is provided for all the young States  which have recently attained their independence, the  monstrous inequality which exists between rich and  poor nitions must inevitably be accentuated, and  increased inequality and injustice in the world means  less progress and, above all, a threat to peace.
8.47 But this growing equality which must be  achieved between the several nations does not mean,  of course, that some must only give whilst others  only receive,“ And that was perhaps the most moving  aspect of our discussions; we all listened with atten-  tion, respect and admiration to the representatives  of the youngest of Unesco's Member States, those  who have only just joined us, and we were at once  struck by the fact that they had hit upon the interna-  tional language, the language of international under-  standing,  MEETINGS
8.48 Needless to say, we are not seeking, on thepre-  text of equality, to make the world uniform, No,  what we want is a world where there will be a variety  of nations which, despite their differences, under-  stand that they must unite at a certain level and work  together to build a fairer and more peaceful world,
1 believe that Unesco ought to help to increase under-  standing in the world, to develop the idea of an inter-  national community and to strengthen our sense of  human brotherhood,
8.49 Yes, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen,  I, as a Frenchman, am happy to rediscover in  Unesco, in the great Unesco which is taking shape,  the slogan of democracy, our ancient-civic and  national ideal - Liberty, Equality, Fraternity -  extended to all the nations of the world. True, we  are living in a hard and difficult world, in a dangerous  world, and that in itself is interesting; but we are  also living, thanks to the extraordinary development  of science and technology, in a thrilling world, a  magnificent world,
8.50 True, we are faced with terrible dangers:  the threat of chaos, of war, of total destruction.  But we are also aware that the various countries of  the world have In their possession absolutely extra-  ordinary means of economic and social development,  Science and technology now offer us such possibilities  as could never before have been imagined, since we  can even leave the earth and men will soon be able to  travel through space.
8.51 Never has mankind had so much power of  destruction at its disposal, but nor has it ever had  such power of development and creation. And it will  perhaps fall to Unesco, to all the men and women who  are connected with its work, who have taken part in  it, who have sought to spread that work together with  the Organization's aims and ideals to every part of  the globe, to serve, in this world of gigantic con-  trasts and fearful temptations, as the mentors and  living embodiments of the conscience of nations  whom we have been awaiting for so many years.
9.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 should like first to express my thanks to  Mr, François for his excellent exposé.
9.2 1 would now like to propose that we should  adopt this introductory part of the report by acclama-  tion.
9.3 Since all are in favour, I declare the Introduc-  tion to the report adopted. ‘
9.4 We come now to the next part of the report " -  dealing with ald to African States and the resolutions  which appear at the end of paragraphs 11 and 16. 1  propose that we adopt paragraphs 11 and 16 and the  resolutions contained therein by acclamation.
9.5 Paragraphs 11 and 16 are adopted.
8.6 I call upon the delegate of the Federal Republic  of Germany,
10.1 Mr. von SIMSON (Federal Republic of  Germany) :  Mr. President, I am sure that the programme that  is before us gives all of us reason for satisfaction, °  At the beginning of this Conference when the Assistant  Director-General, Mr. Adiseshiah, first outlined for  us this programme of ald to the new States of Africa  the Federal Republic of Germany, on that occasion,
7 460   PLENARY  declared its interest, Since then, through the help of  the delegation of Yugoslavia and other delegations,  the child has received a name and the programme  has taken on more concrete shape,
10,2 Iam therefore happy to be able to say that  the Federal Republic of Germany will come to the  assistance of this programme that presents such a  challenge to us all, and that we will make available  at once the sum of $100,000. We hopé also, if our  Parliament is open to persuasion, to assist the pro-  gramme further next year, In making this statement  I should like to add a word of gratitude and apprecia-  tion to the Secretariat which has risen to this chal-  lenge so admirably and has placed before us the  emergency programme of additional aid to Africa.
10,3 Mr, President, since I am on the rostrum,  I wonder if 1 am in order in making a very brief  additional remark in reference to the offers of fellow-  ships, I would merely like to say that the Federal  Republic is very seriously interested in this pro-  gramme also, and we hope that the Director-General  will show us his confidence by informing us of the  needs for additional fellowships and pointing out  where we can be helpful, We shall then, very .  sincerely, try to help him.
11.1 The PRESIDENT :  I thank the delegate of the Federal Republic of  Germany for his statement concerning the help  offered by his country,
11.2 I cull upon the delegate of the United States  of America.
12.1 Mr. THAYER (United States of America) :  Mr. President and distinguished delegates, at the  very outset of this Conference the United States  delegation put forward a resolution, which was  enthusiastically approved, to increase the budget of  Unesco by one million dollars to meet the educa-  tional needs of the countries of Africa, I will not  take the time to repeat the reasons why we believed  this was necessary; discusaions at this Conference  have made these reasons very plain indeed. I will,  however, remind you that my country was in no way  overlooking continuli à needs in ull fields of educa-  tion, culture and science in other areas of the world.  When, during the Conference, stress was placed on  these dire needs in other areas of the world, the  United States delegation supported resolutions soundly  conceived to meet those needs, emphasizing mean-  while that at present the countries of Africa should  receive first priority from Unesco.
12.2 The generosity with which the Arab States,  Latin America and, above all, Asia, where millions  of children and adults are still crying for help in  education, voluntarily gave up assistance already  approved by this Conference so that Africa could be  benefited, and also the spontaneous action of the  African nations in sacrificing nearly one-half of the  amount enthusiastically approved by the Programme  Commission to meet their needs in education, were  among the most inspiring and historic events in the  recent history of international relations. Mr, Pre-  sident, it 1s my sincere conviction that history will  record this common understanding as à day on which  Unesco reached its fullest maturity - when Unesco be-  came established as the home of atrue family of nations.
12.3 These are times of strife and turmoil. The  newspapers every day bring us story upon story of  the struggles which hümanity is undergoing every-  where to solve the pressing problems of people who  seek freedom, independence, ‘and the right to develop  economically, socially, and politically with the  rapidity which modern times demand, Those of us  who have been fortunate enough to achieve prosperity,  a high standard of living for the masses of the people,  and a forward-looking progressive economic, social  and political life - I speak, Mr, President, of the  American people - believe that we have an obligation  to share the fruits of our good fortune with othera,
12.4 And so, Mr: President, my country was  particularly attracted to the joint resolution so  imaginatively initiated by Yugoslavia - a joint resolu-  tion in which Afghanistan, Ethiopia, the Federal  Republic of Germany, Morocco, Nigeria, Senegal,  the United Kingdom, Ghana, Poland, Mexico, Sweden  and the United States of America joined together in  setting forth some very broad and pressing needs of  the African nations and in launching an appeal for  voluntary contributions to meet those needs,
12.5 There are four abroad proposals set forth in  this resolution at the specific request of the African  nations themselves, They are proposals made  directly to the Secretariat of Unesco which, I am  informed, is prepared to implement these proposals  if they can be financed. They are not Included in the  Regular budget because they represent projects of  such magnitude and particularization as to require  very special treatment, They are calculated to help  Unesco offer assistance to the Member States involved.
12,6 The United States is particularly attracted to  three of these proposals. First to that which would  permit Unesco to grant the request of several African  nations for a careful assessment of their needs inthe  field of education, such assessment to be undertaken  with the close co- operation of the nations involved.  This is not an easy task and the United Statés delega-  tion cannot imagine anything more important or more  valuable than the help that Unesco could give to those  African States who need it for the careful planning of  the future of their educational systems,
12.7 Massive programmes of education cannot be  undertaken without educational materials: Teachers  need textbooks, The African countries must neces-  sarily devise the texts which are most adapted to  their particular needs, but once these texts are  devised by them, the printing of the books, their  translation into appropriate languages and their  distribution in the great quantities needed is a tre-  mendously expensive undertaking, The proposal that  Unesco should give assistance in this field ia ore that  is particularly appealing.
12,8 Finally, there is the programme for the  supply of teachers from abroad to African Member  States - a recruiting service which will enable nations  to obtain the primary and secondary teachers they  need until such time as the supply can be met from  their own resources. Here again, is a vital basic  need,
12.9 These special projects, Mr. President, have  ‘not and cannot be met by the budget of Unesco or by  the programmes that have been passed by this  General Conference. We urged the raising of the  Unesco budget because we felt that joint effort must   XXIX PLENARY  be stretched to its maximum, that every country  should help to Lift the African, nations to a position  of equality. We recognize that many countries have  made a sacrifice to do thik they cannot be required  to do more, The United States Government, there-  fore, feels that it must respond to the appeal of this  joint resolution, that it muat enable Unesco to help  the Member States in these particular projects. It  believes that this should be done by the Secretariat  and under the direction and authority of the Executive  Board, project by project. To this end the United  States is prepared to contribute up to $1 million for  projects in these three categories that are prepared  by the Secretariat and approved by the Executive  Board, € 202 .
12.10 May I emphasize, Mr. President, that this  action of my Government fs made in the sincere con-  viction that Unesco has a rôle of the utmost import-  ance to play in the field of education, and in the  sincere hope that this special contribution, associ-  ated with those made by other States, will serve to  prove to the nations of the world how effective can be  Unesco's contribution eo that its rôle shall be uni-  versally recognized,
12.11 Mr. President, this is the last time that I  shall appear on this rostrum and, tn leaving it, may I  salute the Director-General for his devotion and  perseverance in a most difficult task and for all the  courtesies extended by him during this Conference,  In extending to every one of the delegates here present  my best personal wishes for a happy and prosperous  New Year, may 1, Mr. President, eay to you all what  an honour and a privilege it has been to be associated  with you during these last weeks.
13,1 The PRESIDENT : :  I thank the delegate of the United States, ‘and  especially for his announcement of the help which  his country will give, additionally, to this great task.
13.2 I call upon the Head of the delegation of  Yugoslavia, Dr, Zanko,
14,1 Mr. ZANKO (Yugoslavia) (Translation from  the French) :  Mr. President, on behalf of the Yugoslav delega-  tion I should like to express our satisfaction at the  unanimity shown at this session in adopting the  resolution which provides for a supplementary pro-  gramme of emergency aid for the development of  education in Africa.
14,2 We believe that international solidacity and  an understanding of the problems and needs of the  African countries which are struggling to develop their  economy and their educational system and to consoli-  date their newly but hardly-won independence will  also be displayed in the implementation of this sup-  plementary programme of aid, which is so modest in  comparison to the immense needs of the African  countries and the real potentialities of the interna-  tional community,
14,3 -In addition to the bilateral aid which it already  gives and will continue to give in future, my country  is prepared, as a beginning, to contribute to the  carrying out of this programme by publishing ten  school textbooks, by providing the equipment needed  ‘for three teacher-training schools and by offering  twenty fellowships. We hope that this modest  “  MEETINGS  contribution from my country will be increased at a  later stage in the execution of this programme, My  country will do its best, within the limits of its  possibilities, to ensure that this constructive pro- ‘  gramme of international assistance in the develop-  ment of education in African countries yields the  desired results, ‘
14.4 The Yugoslay delegation also wishes these  activities every success because it hopes that this  may lead to an extension of the programme to Latin  America and the Arab world, with a view to advancing  education in those regions and thereby creating a  solid basis for their broader cultural and social  development.
14,5 In expressing this hope, the Yugoslav delega-  tion ie conscious of the fact that, despite its unde-  niable value, the campaign launched by the United  Nations and its Specialized Agencies for the develop-  ment of underdeveloped countries is by no means  commensurate with the actual needs, We are faced  with the urgent necessity of speeding up, expanding -  and increasing the efficiency of all forms of interna-  tional ald for the development of underdeveloped  countries, first and foremost by increasing the  financial resources of the international organizations,  If our action is based, once again, on international  solidarity and if it is effective, then it will achieve  its aim.
15. The PRESIDENT :  I call upon the delegate of India, Mrs. Gandhi.
16.1 Mrs, GANDHI (India) :  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, you will be  wondering what India has to do with this programme,  since we ourselves belong to the group of "have nots"  and are very much in need of help in our own pro-  grammes of education and other kinds of development.  It is precisely because of our experience and diffi-  culties that we now fully realize the urgency and  importance of helping our sister continents. ‘ ’
16.2 Many offers of help have been made and large  sume of money have been offered to help carry out  the programmes which have been drawn up. India,  naturally, cannot compete with thege, but as a token  of friendship the Government of India has decided,  as a beginning, to offer five fellowships for the  training of African university staff, We hope to be  able to do more later on and also to arrange for further  scholarships to be provided by non-governmental  organizations. Unfortunately it was not possible to  contact them in the short period at our disposal.
17. The PRESIDENT :
1 call upon the delegate of Pakistan, Mr, Sharif,
18,1 Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) :  Mr. President, this Conference will forever remain  a memorable one in the annals of our history. At this  Conference we have welcomed with evident joy the  accession of the newly independent States from Tropical  Africa. At this Conference we particularly, from  Asia, have shared our common hopes and aspirations  with our colleagues from Tropical Africa. At this  Conference there has grownup a spirit of acommodation,  a spirit of cordiality which was witnessed in the Pro-  gramme Commission when the budget was balanced.
18,2 It is in that spirit of co-operation and of çor-  diality that I have the pleasure to announce, onbehalf  of my Government, the offer of four fellowships, This  may seem a very small offer compared to those of the  affluent countries, but coming ae it does from a coun-  try which belongs to a group of new and developing  States in Asia, a country which itself is heroically  battling to improve its economic, social and educa-  tional progress, this offer should be regerded as an  honest token, as a very sincere effort to help our  colleagues from Tropical Africa to improve their  economic, social and educational progress. Ii is in  that spirit of co-operation that it is made.
19, The PRESIDENT :  I call upon the distinguished delegate of Italy,
20.1 Mr, G, del BALZO (Italy) (Translation from  the French) :  Mr. Preside:\, ladies and gentlemen, in accord-  ance with the principles laid down in document
11 C/PRG/28 which was before the Programme  Commission, I am pleased to be able to announce  that my Government intends to participate in the,  fellowship programme for Africa sponsored by  Unesco, Italy undertakes to provide twenty long-  term fellowships under Unesco's sponsorship.
20.2 This is doubtless a modest effort. It must,  however, be added to what my country has already  done for Africa in awarding for the current academic  year 300 long-term and 120 short-term fellowships.  Of the 300 long-term fellowships, 110 are granted to  nationals of the Republic of Somalia and 80 to nationals  of the other countries of Tropical Africa, The latter  also receive some thirty short-term fellowships. I  am, moreover, convinced that the experienceacquired  next year, i.e. during the first academic year of the  Sponsored Fellowship programme, will enable us to  develop and improve cultural exchanges with Tropical  Africa, to which my country attaches particular im-  portance,
21, The PRESIDENT:  I now call upon the delegate of Tunisia.
22.1 Mr, BAKIR (Tunisia) (Translation from the  French) :  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Tunisian  delegation would like first of all to express its great  satisfaction at the unanimity of the vote in favour of  the programme of aid to newly-independent African  countries, At the beginning of this session, we were  told that this Conference would be held under the sign  of Africa. This was well said and it was no empty  phrase: the ald programme has now materialized,
22.2 I should like to thank all those who drew up  this programme and all those who voted in favour of  it. As you know, Mr, President, my country is young  and small and has needs which are as numerous as they  are urgent and which we are trying to meet. It, too,  neede aid and it does in fact receive some assistance  from Unesco; but despite our limited resources, we  are anxious to affirm our solidarity and to make a  symbolic contribution to the carrying out of this pro-  gramnme,
22.3 We, the young countries, must also learn to  help others, We are helped, but we should learn to
463  MEETINGS XXIX  help those who need us, And, whatever the aid we  can afford to offer them, it will signify the solidarily  which should exist between all countries, rich and  poor, large and small alike,
22,4 1 should like to affirm here that my country  is prepared to grant a certain number of scholar-  ships to African pupils and students wishing to attend  Tunislan secondary schools or the youthful Tunisian  university.
23. The PRESIDENT:  I call upon Mr. Hessel, of the French delegation, ‘
24,1 Mr, HESSEL (France) (Translation from the  French) : .  Mr. President, 1 do not wish to prolong the dis-  cussion and I will therefore very briefly state that  the French Government has naturally not been In-  different to the appeal which, thanks to the Yugoslay’  delegation and the efforts of the other delegations  which met under the presidency of Mr. Akele-Work  Abte-Wold, has been made to all Member States with  a view to their participation in an Emergency Pro-  gramme for Africa for 1961-1962,
24.2 The cultural bonds between France and a great  many African States need hardly be stressed here,  any more than the importance of the joint actiontaken  by France and those African States for the develop-  ment of teaching, education, culture ard science;  nevertheless, we feel it essential to associate our-  selves with a gesture which 18 symbolic rather than  fundamental, the joint fellowship programme now  being sponsored by Unesco, 1 have pleasure, there-  fore, in announcing that, of the three to four hundred  fellowships which will be granted to African States  for the perlod concerned as part of a programme for  the training of key personnel, we hope that it will be  possible to place twenty at the disposal of the Organi-  zation to add to its own programme,  The PRESIDENT :  I call upon the delegate of Nigeria.
26,1 Mr. AJUMOGOBIA (Nigeria) :  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I very much  regret that owing to technical difficulties it has not  been possible to get in touch with my Government on  the subject of special fellowships to accelerate the  training of African specialists and university lec-  turers. Nevertheless, I believe that Nigeria will  always wish to associate herself with any scheme  calculated to advance the progress of Africa,
26.2 Nigeria is already fully associated with the  Commonwealth Scholarship and Fellowship Scheme,  and she has in fact offered 15 fellowships to scholars  from Commonwealth countries to enable them to study  in Nigerian institutions of higher learning. I shall  bring this new fellowships scheme to the attention  of the Government of Nigeria through my Minister,  who was present at this Conference and spoke from  this rostrum, In due course, therefore, the decision  of my Government on this scheme will be conveyed  to the Director-General,
26.3 Now, Mr. President, I wish to associate my  delegation with the cordial feelings which have been  expressed at this Conference. On behalf of the delega-  tion of Nigeria I wish you all a happy new year.   XXIX PLENARY
27. The PRESIDENT : 1 call upon the delegate of  Sweden.
28,1 Mr. EEK (Sweden):  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen; I wish to  report to you certain developments in my country  which would, aubject to negotiation biitween thé éoun-  try and Unesco and the adoption of mithods of co-  ordination, make possible a contribution from Sweden  to the fellowship programme for Trepical Africa.
28.2 Firstly, a fund set up this ‘ year by the Students’  Association of my country, not by the Government,  will make it possible for us to grant, up to 26 fellow-  ships, as the years go by, for stude nts from Africa  for professional training for terms of study of from  five to six years, leading to a professional degree,  In years to come the annual incomé of this Students’  Fund may amount to as much as $100,000 a year, and  as the resources of the Fund come from the pockets  of the Swedish students themselveà, I must say that,  as a university professor, 1 feel very proud of this  initiative.  MEETINGS
28,3 Within this programme, however, an estima-  ted five or six fellowships could be given in the years
1961 or 1962 for such studies as are envisaged in the  Unesco programme for the training of university  teachers in, for example, social sciences, basi¢  sciences and the humanities, Secondly, the University  of Stockholm and somé other universities might, with  the approval of the Government, which as far as 1  know has not yet been given, set up a special interna-  tional faculty, in 1961 or 1962, to accelerate training  in social sciences and other branches of study. Sub-  ject to government approval, this faculty would grant,  say 20 fellowships, to students from Tropical Africa  in each branch of study.  The PRESIDENT :  In view of thé lateness of the hour, I propose that  we take up the discussion again this afternoon at
3.30 p.m, 1 declare the meeting closed.
29,  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.