THIRTY- SECOND PLENARY MEETING
18 November 1964 at 3,15 p.m.  Presidents: Mr, S, M, SHARIF (Pakistan)  then: Mr, Paulo E, de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  TRENTE-DEUXIEME SEANCE PLENIERE
18 novembre 1964, à 15 h. 15  Présidents : M. S.M, SHARIF (Pakistan)  puis M. Paulo E. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brésil)  TRIGÉSIMOSEGUNDA SESION PLENARIA
1. PRESIDENT: I declare the thirty-second plenary meeting open. Before giving the  floor to the speakers on the list, I would like to call upon the delegate of Belgium. I under-  stand that the delegations of Belgium, Morocco and Brazil have reached an agreement on  the draft amendments, and I would now request our distinguished colleague from Belgium  to address the meeting.
2.1 M. KUYPERS (Belgique). -  Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi de vous dire que vous êtes un président terrible,  respectueux de l'horaire à un tel point que je n'ai sous la main ni un texte préparé, niméme  les documents sur lesquels nous discutons. Je me bornerai donc à déclarer que nous nous  sommes réunis, conformément à votre désir et désirant de notre côté - S. Exc. M. Carneiro,  S. Exc. M. El Fasi, les représentants de quelques autres délégations et moi-même - ré-  pondre tous à votre appel et arriver à un compromis.
2.2 Les délégations du Maroc et de la Belgique seraient d'accord pour avancer les dates  qu'elles avaient primitivement proposées. S. Exc. M. Carneiro, pour sa part, accepterait  de retirer sa proposition - qui entrafnerait une dépense supplémentaire de 114. 000 dollars -  dans cet esprit d'entente qui caractérise si heureusement cette session de la Conférence  générale. Quant à nous, en modifiant les dates, nous arrivons à une dépense supplémentaire  de 70. 000 dollars, qui permettrait l'exécution à peu près immédiate de la résolution à la-  quelle le Maroc et la Belgique tiennent beaucoup parce que, grâce à elle, cette assemblée  a pu réexaminer le problème.
2.3 Répondant au pathétique appel que le Directeur général nous a lancé ce matin, je vous  propose, Mesdames et Messieurs, d'approuver les modifications qu'introduit le document
13 C/DR/96 (rev. ) par rapport au 13 C/DR/96, à savoir, au paragraphe a), "ler avril
1965", au lieu de "ler juin 1965" et, au paragraphe b), "ler janvier 1986" au lieu de  "ler avril 1966" - ce qui nous permettrait peut-être de réaliser un très large accord de  compromis.
2.4 Et maintenant, si vous me le permettez, Monsieur le Président, je voudrais aborder  la question de principe, dont nos amis ont, avec juste raison, souligné l'importance. Le  paragraphe a) du projet d'amendement présenté par le Royaume-Uni s'inspire de l'esprit -  s'il ne reflète pas la lettre - d'une résolution dont la Commission administrative a décidé  de recommander l'adoption à la Conférence générale. Pour notre part, nous sommes d'ac-  cord sur le principe que ce projet définit. Mais, dans notre désir de parvenir à une solu-  tion d'unanimité, nous maintenons notre nouvelle proposition en ajoutant qu'en ce qui con-  cerne l'avenir, nous sommes disposés à soumettre à une nouvelle étude la situation duper-  sonnel moyen qui ne bénéficie pas d'un statut international mais dont les traitements dé-  pendent de ces moyennes "arithmétique" ou "pondérée" dont, ce matin, le Directeur géné-  ral nous a si clairement expliqué le mécanisme. Nous sommes donc prêts à reprendre  l'examen approfondi de la résolution adoptée à Florence.
2.5 En somme, réservant cette dernière question pour la prochaine session de la Confé-  rence générale, après obtention des avis auxquels il est fait allusion dans le paragraphe b)  du projet d'amendement du Royaume-Uni, nous nous contentons, dans l'immédiat, de pro-  poser les dates les plus rapprochées pour l'entrée en vigueur des augmentations de traite-  ments et c'est dans un esprit d'entente et avec l'espoir de voir se réaliser 'unanimité, que  je fais appel à toutes les délégations et, particulièrement, à celle du Royaume-Uni, pour  qu'elles acceptent les propositions du Directeur général légèrement amendées par nos soins.
3, PRESIDENT: I call upon the delegate of Senegal,
4.1 M. SAMB (Sénégal). -  Monsieur le Président, si je pouvais ne pas prendre la parole, je le ferais volontiers,  car je ne saurais parler mieux que l'honorable délégué de la Belgique au sujet des amende-  ments qui ont été apportés aux propositions du Directeur général en ce qui concerne les trai-  tements du personnel de service et de bureau.
4.2 Vous savez bien, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, que nous n'aimons pas que  l'on fasse de discrimination, et vous comprenez pourquoi. Nous ne savons d'ailleurs pas  pourquoi il y aurait lieu de faire une différence entre des catégories de personnel travail-  lant dans les mêmes conditions. Lorsque le coût de la vie augmente en France, il n'aug-  mente pas de 1,5 % pour les fonctionnaires bénéficiant du statut internationalet de 0, 05 %  pour le personnel de service et de bureau. L'augmentation est la même pour tous. Le délé-  gué de la République-Unie de Tanzanie l'a dit ce matin, et nous savons tous quelles sont les  difficultés que nous rencontrons à régler nos frais d'hôtel et de restaurant avec les allo-  cations que nous recevons avant de venir ici.
4 3 C'est pourquoi, compte tenu du désir exprimé par le Directeur général et de celui du  personnel, qui est tout à fait légitime et normal, plusieurs Etats se sont joints aux deux  premiers - le Maroc et la Belgique - pour essayer de trouver une solution de compromis  entre les propositions du Directeur général, qui ont été rappelées ce matin par le profes-  seur Carneiro, et la recommandation qui a été soumise par la Commission administrative.  Le projet de résolution qui est soumis présentement à la Conférence générale, et qui modi-  fie les dates d'application du nouveau barème, en modifiant ainsi le montant des économies  réalisées, est donc présenté par l'Algérie, l'Argentine, la Belgique, le Brésil, le Maroc  et le Sénégal.
883   XXXII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
4,4 Nous demandons à toutes les délégations, y compris la délégation britannique, de vo-  ter à l'unanimité cette proposition. Nous tenons, en effet, à ce que le personnel du Secré-  tariat soit satisfait, parce que nous lui demandons un travail qui n'est pas souvent demandé  à qui que ce soit.
5, PRESIDENT: Before calling upon the delegate of Canada, I would like to point out that  the amendment we have now before us is in document 13 C/DR.96 Rev. I call upon the  delegate of Canada,
6.1 Mr, HICKS (Canada):  Mr. President, the Canadian delegation is not very happy about the necessity of parti-  cipating in a debate on this sensitive subject in a plenary meeting, so near the end of the  thirteenth session of the General Conference, Inote what you had to say before you called  upon me to speak - that we were now considering the revised version of draft resolution 96,  though, of course, we also have before us draft resolution 99, which is the proposal of the  United Kingdom, Now, on behalf of my country, there are one or two observations that I  would like to make as clearly and concisely as I can,
6.2 First of all, perhaps because this complicated and somewhat technical question - be-  cause it is that in the final analysis ~ has come before the plenary meeting, a great many  statements have been made which it seems to us are quite irrelevent tn the problem that we  are trying to decide. Even the Director-General talked about the "quality" of the staff, and  praised, commendably, and in a manner with which we would all agree, the competence of  the various categories of the employees of Unesco, This 1s not at issue in our discussions  today at all. We take for granted the competence of the Unesco staff, and as one who comes  here for the first time, I can quite sincerely say that I am very agreeably impressed with  the competence of the Secretariat and the staff of Unesco at all levels, under £11 cireum-  stances in which I have come in contact with any of them. We should not for one minute  think that there is any issue here as to the competence of the staff of Unesco at any level,  or that we are discussing this, or that because there may be a difference of opinion as to  the method by which we shall determine salary scales, this means that there is a differ-  ence of opinion among members of delegations as to the quality of the staff of Unesco.
6.3 Secondly, there has been some talk of this being a matter of principle, but I cannot  find the principle on which we allegedly disagree. I do not think there is any quarrel  about principle at all. Again, I think that we all accept the doctrine, or theory if youlike,  of paying the Unesco staff in accordance with the best prevailing rate in the Paris area,  This 1s what we, in the Canadian delegation want to do, and this is the way we want to use  our influence, Nor have I detected on the part of anyone who has spoken here any feeling  that we did not want to pay our staff in accordance with the best prevailing rate in the Paris  area, The difficulty is one really of mechanics - of determining what is the best prevail-  ing rate. Whether you find the highest paid individuals - corresponding to each categoryin  the Unesco salary scale - employed by any one company or analogous institution in Paris  and say "we must pay to this point", or whether you take the top dozen or the top twenty or  the top twenty-five per cent and determine a level of Unesco salary scales which coincides  with these - this, I think, is a technical matter. We have had an analysis of this problem  reported originally in document 13 C/ADM, 27 by the Director-General, Our own Admini-  strative Commission then worked very carefully on this, and may I point out that the Admi-  nistrative Commission has representatives from every Member State in Unesco, The  Administrative Commission, not by a unanimous vote but by a vote in which there were no  voices in opposition, although there were some abstentions, decided that the best prevail-  ing rate would be determined on a slightly different scale from that recommended by the  Director-General,
6.4 Now, the Administrative Commisslon and its working party were presided over by a  distinguished gentleman and expert from Switzerland, whose life work has made him com-  petent to deal in this very difficult and sensitive area, and for that reason I do not think that  we can dismiss the recommendations of our own Administrative Commission without paying
884   Sesiones plenarias /llaexapure 3aceVanua XXXI  careful attention to them. It is also rather significant to me that the differences about which  we are talking are so slight; looking quickly over the two salary scales, I am unable to de-  termine one single stage of one single category where the difference amounts to more than
500 F per year. This fs not, therefore, a question where there is a great principle at  stake; it is a question where two different persons or groups of persons have attacked the  same problem and have not agreed in their analysis of it or in the final recommendation  they have made,
6.5 Again we have heard today the rather peculiar argument that this is a matter of our  confidence in the Director-General, This distresses me, and the logical extension of this  argument is that, if at any time the Administrative Commission, the plenary session, or  any agency of Unesco, does not automatically adopt the recommendation of the Director-  General, we have no confidence in him, Obviously what this means is thut the General  Conferences need not be held - we merely let the Director-General run the whole thing, re-  porting to us by mail from time to time, Icannotthinkihat because a responsible body like  the Administrative Commission of this Conference should differ slightly with the Director-  General, we have immediately to put this question of our confidence inthe Director-General  before the Conference. We refuse to accept this argument at all, Indeed, it 1s a remark-  able compliment to the Director-General that he could stand before us this morning as he  did and say that of all the recommendations and proposals that he has made to the Admini-  strative Commission, this is the only one that has not been accepted exactly as he made it  to them. This is a great vote of confidence in the Director-General and neither he nor  Member States, nor members of the delegations, should worry about the fact that occasion-  ally a competent working group in the Administrative Commission or some other orgau of  Unesco may differ slightly with the recommendation of the Director-General, Then again,  we have even heard arguments referring to discrimination, and to "little people”, and the  delegate from Tanzania rather shocked me by referring to "underdogs. We in Canada do  not think that we employ "little people” or "underdogs", or that there is any question of dis-  crimination involved.
6.6 It seems to us that the principle is well established. Our difficulty is in applying the  principle, which we all accept, that is the payment of our staff at all levels, Including the  General Service staff, in accordance with the best prevailing rates in the Paris area, And  frankly, Mr. President, I think that this problem is really too complex to be decided by  the plenary session, I might give my ideas as an individual, others might do so, but ob-  viously, in order to determine how the principle of the best prevailing rates should apply  to given categories of employees of Unesco, we have to entrust sufficient authority and re-  sponsibility to someone to make the detailed analysis and comparisons and to make a sen-  sible recommendation to us.
6.7 My disposition would be, I must confess, to say that since the Administrative Com-  mission, through a working party composed of very competent people, has analysed this  problem carefully, having access to the kind of detailed information that I and most of the  delegates here do not have, we should adopt the recommendation of the Administrative Com-  mission. But, since there is a difference of opinion between those who support the recom-  mendation of the Administrative Commission and those who support the recommendation of  the Director-General ~ and I do not for one moment suggest that I am competent to gay that  his analysis of the best prevailing rates principle is just as good as that made by the work-  ing group of the Administrative Commission, neither am I prepared to prefer one to the  other - it seems to me that a reference to some competent working group is the sensible  answer to the problem that confronts us here today, for this is one of the last two or three  days of this thirteenth session of the General Conference, It would seem to me that the In-  ternational Civil Service Advisory Board, referred to as "ICSAB'', would be the competent  body to do this for us, And for that reason it seems to the Canadian delegation eminently  reasonable to refer this rather technicalanalysis and comparison of salaries to some body.  ICSAB 1s the body to which the United Nations Organization refers such questions and we  should let that body make the decision. In other words, we in Canada feel that the propo-  sals in document 13 C/DR .99 are eminently sensible and workable,
885   XXXII Plenary meetings /Séances plénières
6.8 Now, there is only one comraent that has been made to me which causes me some con-  cern. It is that ICSAB is alleged to have a reputation for taking a very long time to deal  with the work before it, But surely, in a matter like this where the basis of comparisonis  pretty well understood by all, IUSAB can set up a technical group or a working group and  give us an answer very quickly. If not, what is the purpose of the United Nations organi-  zations maintaining their International Civil Service Advisory Board? It seems to me that  the General Conference could and should insist that ICSAB render this service to us effici-  ently and promptly so that the worthy employees of Unesco need not be left in uncertainty  longer than, I hope, the end of this year, before a reasonable solution to the salary problem  is reached,
6.9 Finally, let me say that in indicating our support for this procedure, we are not con-  cerned nearly as much - indeed we are scarcely concerned at all - with the money involved  as with the principle involved. To us that principle is good administration in fairness to  all the agencies within the United Nations, and especially in fairness towards the employees  of Unesco. We are concerned with their welfare and particularly the welfare of the Gener-  al Service staff whose salaries are under discussion here,
7. PRESIDENT: I now call upon the delegate from India,
8.1 Mr, NAYAR (India):  Mr. President, I am most unhappy to participate in this debate, but I feel thatIshould  do so, basing what I have to say on the facts as I know them, I was a member of the work-  ing party of the Administrative Commission which considered the question of salaries and  finally proposed the salary scales approved by the Commission, Before proceeding furth-  er I think it is necessary to clear up a misunderstanding, The question of making a saving  from the provision of $530,000 proposed for increased salaries of staff never, to my know-  ledge, entered the minds of any members of the working party. The question of possible  economy did not influence either the working party or the Administrative Commission. In  proposing higher salaries, slightly lower than those suggested by the Director-General, the  Administrative Commission was moved only by the consideration of doing justice tothe staff,  I submit that a proposal which was made by the working party of the Commission after pro-  longed and careful deliberation, and which was approved by the Commission itself, cannot  in fairness be ruled out here as arbitrary, as some of my distinguished colleagues seemto  feel,
8.2 Sir, we have a magnificent staff. They deserve the best that we can give. Their be-  haviour, quality of work, courtesy and kindliness conform to the highest standards of ser-  vice that an international organization has the right to expect, We are grateful to them  and I want to emphasize that we want to do full justice to them. Nobody wants to make eco-  nomies at the expense of the staff, and in deciding the question of salaries we had to decide  purely on grounds of justice and fair play to the staff, The Administrative Commissionhas  approved scales of salaries which are higher than the existing scales, but which are lower  than the scales proposed by the Director-General for certain categories. These scales  were proposed bythe working party of the Commission who, Irepeat, gave exhaustive thought  to this subject, to which little justice has been done in some of the speeches I heard here  in the forenoon.
8.3 We are fully aware of the principle enunciated at the fifth session of the General Con-  ference at Florence and subsequently reiterated, namely that our General Service category  staff should be paid the best prevailing rates in the Paris area. The Secretariat has, how-  ever, made it clear in one of the documents produced before the working party, that by the  term "best prevailing rates" we mean one of the best rates of pay in the area and not the  very best itself,
8.4 Sir, I feel that the scales now proposed by the Administrative Commission conform to  this principle, The Commission did not discriminate between different categories of staff,  The revision of salaries is actually a continuous process and the scales now proposed will
886   Sesiones plenacius /llaexapnue sacedaxen XXXI  again be revised in 1866, that is two years from now. This is only fair considering the pro-  gressive rise In the cost of living in Paris. The Administrative Commission's proposal  makes it clear that when the Director-General makes his next regular survey of the best  prevailing rates in Paris, he will invite the advice of outside experts and the International  Civil Service Advisory Board and will take their views into account in formulating his pro-  posals for revision of salaries, I listened with careful attention to the speech of the  Director-General this morning. In view of the difficulties referred to by the Director-  General, to whose opinion the Indian delegation attaches the greatest weight, we shallnot  now vote for the original proposal of the Administrative Commission, We propose to vote  for the amendment moved by the United Kingdom, namely that the matter be referredtothe  International Civil Service Advisory Board. That Board is the body most competent to ad-  vise on this complicated question after assessing all the factors involved, Questions lke  best prevailing rates, weighted averages, unweighted averages, are all very technical. The  views expressed by the Administrative Commission are actually those formulated in the  working party by Mr, Frochaux, the distinguished delegate of Switzerland, We must cer-  tainly attach at least equal importance to the views of the Director-General, in the circum-  stances described by him, and we feel that the matter requires further technical examination.  He has notagreed with Mr, Frochaux and we have to give the greatest importance tohis views.
8.5 In view of these developments, we agree that the best alternative would be to refer the  entire question to the International Civil Service Advisory Board and to authorize the Exe-  cutive Board to give effect to the salary scales advised by the Advisory Board. We have  already provided funds for this purpose, Since the salary scales will be applied retroac-  tively if considered desirable by the International Civil Service Advisory Board - andIam  sure they will take into account the delay which will be entailed - our staff will therefore  lose nothing by this arrangement, Finally, I would respectfully submit to this meeting  that we have to decide this question with compleie objectivity and in a spirit of fairness to  the staff, without, however, losing sight of facts. We should not be carried away by emo-  tion. Emotion is not a good counsellor. Let us be fair to the staff and fair to Unesco.
9. PRESIDENT: I call upon the delegate of Iraq.
10.1 Mr, A1-HASHIMI (Iraq):  Mr. President, the delegation of Iraq would like to make its position clear on the issue  under discussion.
10.2 In this respect I may differ slightly with the distinguished delegate of Canada in that  I find that we are differing here on matters of principle as well as on matter of procedure.
10.3 I would like to explain why it is difficult for us really to take a clear stand on this !s-  sue, to base our decision on one set of evidence rather than on another, and why it is diffi-  cult to be sure that we are standing on solid ground. If we are to value parliamentary  procedures, and to consider that this plenary session is similar to a parliament andthe dif-  ferent commissions and committees are similar to the expert committees of parliaments,  then all important issues should be studied first by the appropriate commissions, which  have ancess to all the detalls and knowledge of the technical matters, and then referred to  the plenary session for final decision. In this case the matter has been studied, so it  seems, in the Administrative Commission and that Commission has presenteda clear over-  riding opinion on the question at issue, :
10.4 However, on the other hand, we have the highest administrative officer of the Organ-  ization, I refer to the Director-General, who is present here and who knows the facts quite  well - as well as the members of the Commission - offering us another kind of solution,  What then are we going to do in weighing the evidence offered on both sides both of whomare  actually competent to submit suggestions and recommendations for our consideration?
887   XXXII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
10.5 Another matter brought before us has made the situation a little bit more difficult, the  draft amenment submitted by the United Kingdom. In its directives and the spirit behind it,  it appears to offer quite a good solution, which is that we should depend on certain experts  and specialized bodies to glve us their own advice as to matters concerning salary scales  and rates of pay, matters about which perhaps most of us are not well informed. Yet that  proposal seems also to be incompatible with the urgency of this question, with the urgency  of administrative decisions which must be taken within a short period of time.
10.6 This, Mr. President, is the situation that confronts us now and we have really to  weigh all this evidence in order to be able to take the wise decision expected of us. It  seems to me that the draft resolution contained in document 13 C/DR.96 Rev, submitted  jointly by Brazil and Morocco and two other co-sponsors carries some weight, and has  suggested certain compromises that will bring into harmony two important points of view,  that of the Administrative Commission and that of the administration of the Organization,  Because, it seems to me, the views of the administration which is charged with such great  responsibilities, and which has been cited by the distinguished representative of Canada as  being so efficient and having such complex problems to deal with, should be taken into due  consideration, Such responsibility of administration should carry authority with it, and we  must give this authority freely in order to enable the administration of the Organization to  cope with the hard tasks it has to carry out. To deprive them of the necessary authority,  the necessary freedom, for work, for action, would actually tie them, would hinder and  perhaps be detrimental to their work. It seems to me that even the small cogs inthis vast  machinery of Unesco do affect the total efficiency of the Organization, The dissatisfac-  tionof junior clerks, if they are not well paid, if they are not sure that they are being justly  treated, given the standard of living that they need, may affect the work of Unesco, This  is why, Mr. President, the Iraqi delegation would like to support the draft resolution that  has been jointly submitted, with two other co-sponsors, by Moroccoand Brazil who have per«  manent representatives at Unesco, and know more of the detail and more of the inside facts  of the Organization.
11. PRESIDENT: I now call upon the delegate of France.
12.1 M. DE SAYVE (France). -  Monsieur le Président, je ne voudrais pas trop prolonger ce débat. Le chef de la délé-  gation canadienne et le délégué de l'Inde, notamment, ont dit avant moi, et beaucoup mieux  que moi, tout ce que j'avais à dire. Je voudrais cependant rappeler, notamment au chef de  la délégation irakienne qui m'a précédé à la tribune, que la Commission administrative  n'est pas un comité restreint, comme il en existe dans les assemblées parlementaires,  mais une commission où tous les Etats membres sont, en principe, représentés et que c'est  par 32 voix contre zéro, avec 14 abstentions, qu'a été adopté le projet de résolution qui est  soumis à la Conférence générale. Ce projet a été préparé par un Groupe de travail élu à  cet effet et je puis vous assurer, Mesdames et Messieurs, que ce Groupe a étudié avec beau-  coup d'attention et de soin les propositions du Directeur général, en tenant compte des di-  vers éléments de toute espèce qui entrent en jeu, en particulier du fait qu'il s'agit ici des  traitements les plus bas du Secrétariat.
12.2 Les représentants de la France au Groupe de travail, tout particulièrement, n'ont pas  oublié que, pour eux, il s'agissait d'un personnel comprenant beaucoup de leurs compa-  triotes, et aussi que l'Unesco est à Paris. Ces deux préoccupations ont été constamment  présentes à leur esprit. C'est dans ces conditions que le Groupe de travail, se ralliant à  la proposition d'un expert bien connu, membre de la délégation suisse, a adopté, par 9 voix  contre zéro, avec une abstention, le projet de résolution dont il s'agit. Voilà les faits.
12.3 Pourquoi donc revenir sur une décision parfaitement régulière, prise par une Com-  mission de la Conférence générale dans des conditions normales ? Je vois à cela trois  motifs.
12.4 D'abord, le grand nombre d'abstentions au sein de la Commission - quatorze, à  côté de 32 voix "pour" - qui dénotait une hésitation chez certains de nos collègues. Ensuite,  la déclaration du Directeur général. Enfin, un autre motif qui m'a fait hésiter et qui me  fait encore hésiter, c'est l'idée qu'on puisse nous reprocher d'être à la fois juge et partie -  ce qui est d'ailleurs le propre de tout ce qui se fait à la Conférence générale. Mais sur-  tout - c'est peut-être la seule critique qui pourrait être faite à la Commission administra-  tive - c'est qu'il s'agit de problèmes si compliqués et demandant de si longues réflexions  que, même après y avoir travaillé pendant huit jours d'arrache-pied, notre Commission  a peut-être été amenée à ne pas tenir compte de l'ensemble des éléments.
12.5 Que faire ? La proposition belgo-marocaine tendrait à laisser croire que le Groupe  de travail et la Commission administrative cherchaient avant tout à réaliser des économies  et qu'on pourrait satisfaire ce désir par d'autres moyens, C'est là une erreur totale. Le  Groupe de travail et la majorité de la Commission administrative ne cherchaient qu'une  chose et une seule : une solution juste, équitable, conforme aux principes établis à New  Delhi, et c'est pour cela que je ne puis en aucune manière accepter la base de l'amende-  ment belgo-marocain. Il ne me paraît absolument pas admissible.
12,6 Reste alors l'amendement présenté par la délégation du Royaume-Uni. Je-l'estime  juste. Il faut faire appel au Comité consultatif de la fonction publique internationale. C'est  un comité qui a été créé précisément pour résoudre ces problèmes délicats dans le cadre  de l'Organisation des Nations Unies et pour éviter des frictions telles que celle que la dé-  cision de la Commission administrative semble avoir suscitée. On nous soupçonne d'avoir  voulu à tout prix réaliser des économies aux dépens d'une partie du personnel. C'est faux.  Et, pour éviter qu'il ne subsiste de mauvaises interprétations ou des rancoeurs, je me  rallie à l'amendement présenté par la délégation du Royaume-Uni, La délégation française  votera donc le texte du document 13 C/DR, 99.
13. PRESIDENT: I now call upon the delegate of the United States of America.
14,1 Mrs. SMYTHE (United States of America):  Mr. President, for those who have followed the proceedings of the Administrative Com-  mission it is difficult to recognize that hard-working body as the unsympathetic tyrant over  the little man that has been described here today. That Commission numbered among its  members recognized experts in this area; it had before it relevant data about which dele-  gates who did not participate in-its work may not be informed, That Commission deserv-  es our respect and our thanks.
14,2 Our delegation, like those of Canada and India, i8 troubled by the possibility that what  is an important matter with long-range implications will be settled on the basis of calculat-  ed emotional appeals, We are particularly concerned bythe appealofthe Director-General  that this is the only occasion on which he has been reversed by a body of this Conference,  The implication that the General Conference must always agree with the recommendations  of the Secretariat clearly cannot be accepted by a responsible body cf delegates.
14,3 But let us address ourseives to the facts. The facts are these: we have a staff which  we respect and which the Administrative Commission respects. The purpose of the Ad-  ministrative Commission was to examine the proposals put before it with respect to the  staff salaries and to make whatever adjustments were equitable to make the compensation  of staff members both reasonable and just, The purpose was notatanytime to save money.  In this instance, the working group of the Administrative Commission, found that the sal-  ary scales for General Service staff proposed by the Secretariat had not been prepared in  accordance with the guide-lines set out by the United Nations Administrative Committee on  Co-ordination, Itaccordingly proposed a revised scale under the leadership of Mr, Frochaux ’  who, as you have heard, was a member of the Parker Commission and Chairman of the Uni-  ted Nations Salary Commission, We have full confidence in his technical sidll and the ob-  jectivity of his judgement.   XXX Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
14,4 No existing salary classifications were reduced; in fact, all the lower levels were  glven salary increases under the scales recommended by the United Nations Administrat-  ive Committee.
14.5 I note in a report of salaries beginning January 1963, that the staff has received a  five per cent increase every six months since that time - a total of twenty per cent in the  past twenty-two months, with & further five per cent increase expected in March of 1965,  In other words, what we are deciding now is how much increase should be received by the  staff above and beyond the twenty per cent increase already accomplished in less than two  years,
14.6 This is a difficult and delicate decision and the Director-General's proposal, which  would put Unesco's salaries, taken as a whole, at the very top of all Paris salaries - with  one exception, a wealthy high-profit business concern - gave pause to the working party,  particularly in view of its variance from the strict application of the United Nations Admin-  istrative Co-ordinating Committee principles,
14.7 These questions do not involve our faith in the staff, whose hard work and devotion  clearly justify a fair and generous salary scale reached after a sober and searchinganaly-  sis and scrupulous observation of the principles applicable to this situation, We are not  interested in saving money at the expense of a deserved and justified salary scale, We  want our salaries to be attractive to the most competent of international civil servants,
14.8 But we find ourselves unable to see the value of the amendment proposed in document
13 C/DR.96, since it seems to us that it does not meet the objections referred to above,  We reiterate that the saving of money is irrelevant to the drawing up of an appropriate re-  commendation. The United States considers that increases in salaries and allowances  should be developed wherever possible with the assistance of an independent objective out-  side body of competent experts such as the International Civil Service Advisory Board, We  also consider it appropriate that such increases should reflect prior action taken by the  United Nations, in New York, following the approval of the Member States,
14,9 We are in favour of the draft amendment submitted by the United Kingdom, We do  not consider that this resolution in any way deprives ihe General Conference of its sove-  reign authority to act in this area, If it wishes, the General Conference can invite the Exe-  cutive Board to review with the Director-General such scales as he may develop with the  advice of the International Civil Service Advisory Board. This will give protection toour  staff and the security of careful, disinterested and objective review of the issues which  many of us would want to have achieved with the utmost technical competence.
14,10 Why do some members of this Conference fear a disinterested and objective review?  What argument can there be against it? Do we deny that we are an integral part of the Uni-  ted Nations system and share common problems?
14,11 Fellow delegates, I hope we can follow the rational road and adopt the proposalof the  United Kingdom that we refer this matter to the International Civil Service Advisory Board.
15, PRESIDENT: I now call on the delegate of Switzerland.
16.1 M, FROCHAUX (Suisse). -  Monsieur le Président, la délégation suisse est assez troublée par la tournure que  prend cette affaire, qui est transférée du plan des principes au plan budgétaire. Dans cette  question, si importante pour le personnel, la délégation suisse s'est laissée guider, dans  le rôle qu'elle a joué au sein du Groupe de travail comme au sein de la Commission admi-  nistrative, par le seul souci de l'objectivité et de l'équité. À aucun moment, son attitude  n'a été dictée par un souci d'économie budgétaire. L'aspect budgétaire n'a été qu'une con-  séquence, ef non la cause, d'une modification du barème proposé par le Directeur général.
890   Sesiones plenarirs /llaexaprsie sacedanns XXXI
16.2 Or l'amendement proposé par la Belgique et le Maroc fait de cette question une ques-  tion bwdçctaire, qui devrait être étrangère à un débat consacré au barème des salaires à  accorder au personnel de service et de bureau, Nous voulons tous ici être justes et équi-  tables envers le personnel. Nous voulons tous que sa rémunération soit fixée à un niveau  tel que l'Unesco compte parmi les meilleurs employeurs de la région parisienne. À cet  égard, la proposition de la Commission administrative va certainement dans le sens de  la résolution adoptée par la Conférence générale à Florence, puisqu'elle fait de l'Unesco,  dans l'ensemble, le second des meilleurs employeurs de la région parisienne, et puisqu'elle  la place parmi les 15 meilleurs employeurs retenus par l'enquête sur les salaires,
16.3 Les directives du Comité administratif de coordination sont datées du 10 août 1964 :  elles sont donc postérieures à l'enquête. Ces directives n'ont reçu jusqu'à maintenant ni  l'agrément du Comité consultatif de la fonction publique internationale, ni l'agrément des  organes compétents représentant les Etats membres des Nations Unies. On peut donc légi-  timement se poser la question de savoir dans quelle mesure de telles directives, établies  par l'Administration, peuvent constituer une base acceptable par les Etats membres lors-  qu'il s'agit de fixer un système commun d'application universelle, Si je ne fais erreur, ces  directives ne sont pas acceptées par le Bureau international du travail et elles feront l'objet  d'une étude critique lors d'une toute prochaine séance du Comité consultatif de la fonction  publique internationale. Les experts de ce Comité diront alors quelles sont - ou quelles de-  vraient être - les normes acceptables par les Etats membres.
16.4 Parlant au nom de la délégation du Royaume-Uni, Dame Mary Smieton a exprimé ce  matin ses doutes quant à l'interprétation qui a été donnée des principes formulés par le Co-  mité administratif de coordination. Quand il s'agit de faire une comparaison, il faut compa-  rer ce qui est comparable. Or, ce qui préoccupe la délégation suisse, c'est qu'au lieu de  chercher à comparer les structures des salaires à l'extérieur et à l'Unesco on a soumis  les résultats de l'enquête sur les salaires à un système trés savant de pondération, qui  aboutit à ce que les résultats obtenus soient fonction d'éléments variables et donnent, en  définitive, des salaires théoriques.
16.5 En fait, il s'agit de fixer des rémunérations qui placent l'Unesco en bonne position de  concurrence sur le marché du travail de la région parisienne. Ii faut donc comparer la struc-  ture des salaires à l'extérieur avec la, structure des salaires à l'Unesco. Pour cela, il con-  vient d'examiner, sur la base du barème proposé par le Groupe de travail et adopté par la  Commission administrative par 32 voix contre zéro avec 14 abstentions, à quel niveau se  situent les minimums et les maximums pour chacun des emplois du Secrétariat de l'Unesco,  en les comparant avec les salaires payés à l'extérieur pour des emplois correspondants.  On constatera alors que, dans l'ensemble, l'Unesco vient au second rang parmi les meilleurs  employeurs de la région parisienne,
16.6 Mesdames et Messieurs, je vous ferai grâce des détails. Je crois, pour ma part,  avoir rendu à la Conférence générale les services qu'elle était en droit d'attendre d'un dé-  légué qui, de surcroft, a déjà accompli plusieurs missions d'expert en matière de salaire,  tant à l'Unesco même que dans le cadre des Nations Unies. Du reste, comme tcus mes  collègues du Groupe de travail, à qui je m'empresse de rendre hommage, je l'ai fait en  toute objectivité at en toute équité, en dehors de toute considération budgétaire et en me  basant uniquement sur les données techniques qui étaient mises à ma disposition.
16.7 Le souci de la délégation suisse, comme le vôtre, Mesdames et Messieurs les délé-  gués, est que l'Unesco soit un bon employeur. Le Groupe de travail n'avait pas d'autre  objectif. Il s'est penché sur l'aspect technique du problème avec beaucoup de conscience  et, je l'avoue, avec une bienveillante objectivité. Mais, lorsque des divergences inter-  viennent sur l'application de certains principes, et lorsque le débat prend un caractère émo-  tionnel, il est de plus en plus difficile d'adopter une décision en toute sérénité.
16.8 L'amendement déposé par la délégation du Royaume-Uni et appuyé par d'autres délé-  gations nous permettrait, par la voie qu'il préconise, de trouver une solution valable pour
891   XXXII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  le présent et également pour l'avenir. Le crédit dont jouit le Comité consultatif de la fonc-  tion publique internationale devrait être une garantie pour le Directeur général, pour le per-  sonnel et pour les Etats membres qu'une solution équitable sera trouvée à cette question  de rémunération.
16 9 C'est la raison pour laquelle la délégation suisse donne son plein appui au projet de  résolution présenté par la délégation du Royaume-Uni.
17, -PRESIDENT: I now call upon the delegate of New Zealand,
18,1 Mr, CAMPBELL (New Zealand):  Mr. President, I will be brief, because much that I might have said has been said bet-  ter by the distinguished delegates of the United Kingdom, Canada, India, France, the United  States and Switzerland, In the difficult matter we are now debating, the New Zealand de-  legation is concerned above everything else to see that what is done is fair and reasonable -  fair and reasonable from the point of view of the staff of Unesco, and fair and reasonable  from the points of view of our Government and the other governments represented here,
18.2 Along with many other delegations who have spoken in this debate, we were party to  the proposals of the Administrative Commission, and today we shall vote for the amend-  ments submitted by the United Kingdom. May I therefore say for our part, and with the  utmost emphasis, that at no stage has our attitude been influenced by any desire whatsoever  to save money at the expense of the people in this house who belong to the General Service  staff.
18.3 New Zealand is rather well known for its egalitarian outlook and practice, and we  would be false to some of our best traditions if we were insensitive to the just and reason-  able claims of any category of Unesco staff, However, as everyone knows who has had the  slightest thing to do with salaries, it is often extremely difficult in the particular case to say  exactly what constitutes a fair and reasonable settlement, and we are faced here today with  a clear-cut conflict of opinion between the Director-General and the Administrative Com-  mission of the Conference. This being so, we are among the other delegations who think  that the just and sensible thing to do is to refer the issue to a competent, independent tribu-  nal under terms that will ensure that no member of the staff will lose financially because of  the delay in reaching a final decision, and I must say that for my own part I find it hard to  see what reasonable objection there can be to this course, particularly if, as I understand  it, the staff would, under these arrangements, have every opportunity to present their own  case and have it examined,
18,4 We would hope that, in fact, a decision could be reached fairly quickly, and we are,  of course, prepared to accept, in full, whatever this tribunal recommends. The New  Zealand delegation, Mr, President, therefore associates itself with the other delegations  that have supported the amendment submitted by the United Kingdom delegation.
19, PRESIDENT: I now call upon the delegate of Australia,
20,1 Mr. LYON (Australia):  Mr, President, what I am about to say has already been said by a number of delega-  tions here this afternoon, but as the Australian delegation participated in the work of the  working party and supports the proposals of the Administrative Commission, I would Like  to explain our attitude, frankly and plainly.
20.2 In Australia - and my distinguished colleagues from Canada and New Zealand have  said the same for their countries - we have in matters of wage negotiations and wage poli-  cy a tradition of egalitarianism, of wage justice, and an elaborate system of wage negotia-  tion. In Unesco, with which we have had a long association, I think I can say that we have  contributed to the aims of the Organization generally and specifically in the field of admin-  istration. I have therefore been disturbed by some of the inferences that were put before
882   Nesiones plenarfas /Haenapuvie Jocedanua XXXI  the Conference this morning in earlier speeches, These inferences were that the propo-  sals of the Administrative Commission were put forward on the grounds of various arbit-  rary economies at the expense of the General Service staff, put forward contrary to the  principles of justice to the staff and contrary tothe principle of adequate payment of the staff,  I would like to say to this Conference that in its work both in the working party and in the  Administrative Commission the Australian delegation was not motivated by any of these  reasons,
20,3 What then was the issue in the Administrative Commission? I think this has been ex-  plained fairly simply by earlier speakers. The motivation of those who supported the Ad-  ministrative Commission's proposals was the conviction that in the application of the highly  complex methodology advocated In and flowing from the ACC directives the Secretariat in  various ways tended to favour a result which favoured the staff, and these varlous ways  have been mentioned by earlier speakers, I will not go into that in detail.
20,4 What then did the working party of the Administrative Commission seek to do? It  proposed a revision, and this revision resulted in a set of recommended salary scales which  remain within the main principles which we are here discussing - the principles of the ACC -  to the effect that the scales adopted for the General Service staff should be within the top
25 per cent of the best prevailing rates in the Paris area, That I think is the principle that  we are talking about. :
20.5 The Australian delegation therefore does not find itself moved from its earlier posi-  tion by what has been said here this morning. It does, however, recognize that there is  clearly a conflict of opinion between the two sets of scales which have been proposed and it  recognizes that it is in the interests of Unesco to attempt to resolve this conflict, What  possibilities are there, I ask, of obtaining an agreed solution? One proposal is that con-  tained in document 13 C/DR.96, My delegation finds this proposal unsatisfactory because  it assumes that those who supported the Administrative Commission's proposals are inte-  rested only in a budgetary economy, The second proposal is that put forward by Dame  Mary for the United Kingdom delegation, in document 13 C/DR.99. In Australla, as I  mentioned earller, we have what we consider a sophisticated and satisfactory method of  resolving wage disputes. In the case of a wage dispute our normal procedure is to refer  the dispute to arbitration or to an arbitration tribunal, This seems to me the essence of  the United Kingdom draft amendment, The reason that this is done is precisely to avoid  direct conflict, precisely to avold heat and emotion and a decision taken on emotional  grounds, and finally to arrive at an impartial decision, It is for these reasons that the  Australian delegation will support the United Kingdom amendment.
21, PRESIDENT: I now call on the delegate of Ireland,
22,1 Mr. O'LAOGHAIRE (Ireland):  Mr. President, the delegation of Ireland is concerned that our Organization, in fixing  the salaries of various grades of staff, has received conflicting advice from the Administra-  tive Commission on the one hand, and from the Director-General on the other,
22,2 In the circumstances it is difficult to know what best to do in order to te both just and  fair to the staff involved, Therefore we see considerable merit in the idea of an indepen-  dent examination of the technical matter which concerns essentially the interpretation of  the evidence as to what are the best prevailing rates in the Paris area. My delegation  would hope that such an examination, done quickly, would provide satisfaction.
22,3 With regard to the question of the reference of this question to ICSAB, taking the mat-  ter out of the hands of this General Conference, we should like to make two observations.
22,4 The first one is that the question for advice by ICSAB, and I should like to underline  the word advice, concerns a relatively narrow issue between two sets of clearly deflnad  salary scales. The second point is that we were somewhat concerned at the wording of
893   XXXII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  sub-paragraph (b) of document 13 C/DR 99 "fix in accordance with" and we would have pre-  ferred to see substituted for these three words the one word "following". In this connexion,  however, we were glad to note the concluding remark of the distinguished delegate of the  United States of America to the effect that the advice of ICSAB should be a matter for con-  sideration by the Executive Board and by the Director-General before the final decision is  taken on this matter, And it 18 in this sense that we propose to support the draft amend-  ment submitted by the United Kingdom,
23, PRESIDENT: I now call upon the delegate of Uruguay,
(24,1) Mr, CICALESE (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr, President, The delegation of Uruguay regrets that, owing to {ts small  membership, it was unable to put forward Its views more fully during the earller stages of this  debate, However, when the matter was first discussed in the Administrative Commission, we  purposely supported the budget increase - contrary though this was to our previous intention not  to vote for any increase < because our country will, under no circumstances, support a reduc-  tion {n the salaries of staff in the lower grades,
(24.2) Consequently, we supported the proposal of the delegate of Tanzania, with which we were,  and are, in complete agreement, Ihave no intention, Mr. President, of moralizing here, but  I do feel bound to point out that one of the oldest lessons which we in the West have learnt from  our history concerns the harmonious, organic and human development of an effective and work-  able society. I refer to the ancient metaphor of the stomach and limbs used by Menenfus Agrippa  in addressing the Roman plebs when, sickened by the decisions of the patricians, they had with-  drawn to the Mons Sacer. This great lesson, Mr, President, is that every human organization  must really be an organiem, each part of which is, not a cog wheel or a cipher, but a real and  integrated part of a living, biological organism, This, Mr. President, 1s what Unesco ought to  be. If it be not so, we shall have to give up our whole tradition; we shall have to renounce  once and for all that cultural vocation of which we are so proud. In other words, the relations  between all the human elements of a society, the relations between all the members of our staff  cannot be otherwise than those which exdst between the various organs of a living being,
(24.3) We firmly reject any idea, symbolism, judgement or theory in which our staff members,  whatever their grade or remuneration, are regarded as interchangeable or expendable as inhu-  man machines or mere numbers or ciphers. We cannot accept any pretentious technical or  scientific terms that may place any one of our colleagues, however humble his position in the  Organization, in a humillating position. Our colleagues are neither more nor less than the  component organs of a single, ving body. But this organic relationship is weakened or des-  troyed if we begin to make distinctions, to establish insecure and non-organic lower orders which  can be changed in the same way as a pair of shoes or a hat. Therefore, not only do we main-  tain our general opinion that there are no lower orders among the staff, but we also claim that  it is of fundamental importance, nay even vital, for the relationship between the Director-General  and all the senior members of the staff, as well as their lower-ranking colleagues, to be flex-  ible, harmonious, easy and spontaneous,
(24.4) We are now faced with the fact that there has been a cleavage and that this relationshipis  not an easy or spontaneous one, This is a very serious and incomprehensible situation. And  what {s even more incomprehensible is that, resorting to vague terminology, it is now being sug-  gested that this sovereign Conference should renounce its full powers and the duties incumbent  on it alone, by delegating to a third party the exercise of functions which are its inalienable right,  We cannot accept this delegation of powers proposed by the United Kingdom, The Spanish de-  legation has already pointed out, in the Programme Commission, that it is illogical on the one  hand to admit the inadequacy of staff salaries and, on the other, not to decide on the date on  which those salaries should be adjusted,
(24,5) We have absolute faith in the Director-General's sense of responsibility and in that of his  advisers; we believe that spontaneous and living relationships between the various sections of  the staff are of basic importance; we conslder that any loss of confidence, any division of the  staff into separate classes would result in a sharp decline in the Organization's vitality and ef-  ficiency; our country has always placed concern for the needs and rights of the underprivileged  above all other considerations or obligations; and, finally, the General Conference can never
895   XXX Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  delegate {te full entitlement to discharge the more difficult duties incumbent upon it to any kind  of technical body, which, however capable it may seem, can never be a sovereign body and  settle a problem of governineht which is the Conference's responsibility alone, For all these  reasons, Mr, President, we strongly oppose the proposal of the United Kingdom delegationand  shall vote {firmly and with a clear conscience for the proposal submitted by Algeria and co-  sponsored by other countries,
25.1 PRESIDENT: All the delegations which were on the list before it was closed have now  spoken, We have now to proceed to the vote. The first amendment to be put to the meet-  ing is that submitted by the delegation of the United Kingdom in document 13 C/DR,99, This  amendment is the farthest removed from the original proposal of the Administrative Com-  mission,
25.2 I will first give the floor, however, to the delegate of Belgium who rises to a pointof  order, .
26. M. KUYPERS (Belgique). -  Je serai très bref, Monsieur le Président, Tout à l'heure, je me suis excusé de n'a-  voir pas de documents en main, Il me manquait notamment le document 13 C/DR. 96 Rev. ,  dont le texte résulte d'une entente entre diverses délégations. Je tiens à signaler ala Con-  férence générale une petite erreur de frappe à l'avant-dernière ligne de ce document, où  il convient de lire mars au lieu de mai, la date du ler avril ayant remplacé celle du ler juin,
27, PRESIDENT: Thank you, Sir, for that rectification, Now I will ask the Secretary to  read the draft amendment submitted by the delegation of the United Kingdom,
28, SECRETARY: Mr, President, the draft amendment submitted by the United Kingdom  in document 13 C/DR,99 reads as follows: paragraphs (a) and (b) of the draft resolution  proposed by the Administrative Commission would be replaced by the following text:  (a) To obtain as soon as possible the advice of the International Civil Service Advis-  ory Board concerning the scales and grading pattern which it would be appropriate  to adopt for the base salaries of staff inthe General Service category at Headquarters,  bearing in mind the guiding principles approved by the Administrative Committee  on Co-ordination and the two sets of salary scales and grading patterns discussed  at the thirteenth session of the General Conference.  (b) To bring into force new base salary scales and grading patterns for the staff re-  ferred to in paragraph (a) above, fixed in accordance with the advice provided by  the International Civil Service Advisory Board and operative from a date also re-  commended by the Advisory Board.
29.1 PRESIDENT: I put the amendment submitted by the United Kingdom in document
13 C/DR .99 to the vote. (The vote was taken by show of hands)
29.2 The results of the vote are: in favour of the amendment 27, against 41, abstentions
14. The amendment is rejected.
29.3 I would now ask the Secretary to read 13 C/DR .96 Rev. which is an amendment sub-  mitted by three delegations who have combined their original separate amendments and two  other co-sponsors,
30, SECRETARY: Mr, President, the amendment proposed by Algeria, Argentina, Bel-  glum, Brazil, Morocco and Senegal is as follows: the same two paragraphs (a) and (b)  in the resolution proposed by the Administrative Commission would be replaced by the fol-  lowing text:  (a) To give effect as irom 1 April 1965 to the salary scale set out in paragraph 11 of  document 13 C/ADM/14, ;  (b) To give effect as from 1 January 1966 to the salary scale set out in paragraph 17  of document 13 C/ADM/14,
896   Sesiones plenarias /llaenapuwe sacedanus xn  And then there would be added a new paragraph which would read as follows with the cor-  rection made by the delegate of Belgium:  To maintain until 31 March 1965 the present system of remuneration for GeneralSer-  vice staff at Headquarters,
31.1 PRESIDENT: I will first take amendments to paragraphs (a) and (b), I put these two  amended paragraphs to the vote, (The vote was taken by show of hands)
31.2 The amendment is adopted by 48 votes to 9, with 22 abstentions.
31,3 Inow proceed to the second amendment which consists in adding the following new  paragraph:  "To maintain until 31 March 1965 the present system of remuneration for GeneralSer-  vice staff at Headquarters",  (The votewas taken by show of hands)
31.4 The amendment {s adopted by 48 votes to 3, with 24 abstentions.
31.5 I will now put the whole resolution as amended to the vote, (The vote was taken by  show of hands)
31.6 The resolution, as amended, is adopted by 48 votes to 4, with 27 abstentions.
31.7 The meeting now comes to consider paragraph 672, with the resolution included init,  There being no comments on the paragraph as a whole, I will put the resolution to the vote.  {The votewas taken by show of hands)
31.8 The resolution is adopted by 50 votes to none, with 6 abstentions,
31.9 Are there any comments on paragraph 673? There are none. I will now put the re-  solution contained in paragraph 673 to the vote. (The vote was taken by show of hands)
31.10 The resolution is adopted unanimously,
31.11 Now, with your permission, ladies and gentlemen, after having exceeded my assign-  ment by nearly an hour and a half, I would request Professor Carneiro to take the Chair,  (Mr, Carneiro took the Chair)
32.1 Le PRESIDENT. -  Prenant la suite des travaux que mon collègue et ami, S. Exc. M. Sharif, a conduits  jusqu'ici, je vous prie, Mesdames et Messieurs, de prendre maintenant en considération  le point 25. 4 de l'Ordre du jour (Statut et règlement du personnel), ainsi que la résolution  figurant au paragraphe 681. Je mets aux voix cette résolution.  (Le vote a lieu à main levée)
32.2 La résolution est adoptée à l'unanimité.
32,3 Nous passons maintenant au point 25, 5 de l'Ordre du jour (Tribunal ëdministratif) et  au projet de résolution qui figure au paragraphe 682. Je mets aux voix ce projet de  résolution.  {Le vote a lieu à main levée)
32.4 La résolution est adoptée à l'unanimité.
32.5 Nous passons maintenant au Chapitre Sécurité sociale, point 26. 1 de l'Ordre du jour  (Rapport sur la Caisse d'assurance-maladie). Je mets aux voix le projet de résolution figu-  rant au paragraphe 685.  (Le vote a lieu à main levée)
897   XXX1 Plenary meetings'/ Séances plénières
32.6 La résolution est adoptée à l'unanimité.
32.7 Prenons maintenant le point 26. 2 de l'Ordre du jour (Rapport sur la Caisse commune  des pensions). Je mets aux voix la résolution figurant au paragraphe 687.  (Le vote a lieu à main levée)
32.8 La résolution est adoptée à l'unanimité.
32.9 Nous en arrivons à la dernière résolution du document 13 C/43, celle qui figure au  paragraphe 688 et qui a trait à la nomination des représentants des Etats membres auprès  du Comité des pensions. Je mets cette résolution aux voix.  (Le vote a lieu à main levée)
32.10 La résolution est adoptée à l'unanimité.
32.11 Nous allons maintenant, si vous le voulez bien, Mesdames et Messieurs, passer à  l'Addendum au Quatrième Rapport de la Commission administrative, c'est-à-dire au docu-  ment 13 C/43 Add. 1 et, tout d'abord à la partie G, concernant le Siège de l'Unesco. Le  paragraphe 1 contient le texte d'une résolution que je mets immédiatement aux voix;  (Le vote a lieu A main levée)
32.12 Le résultat du vote est le suivant : 59 voix pour, Zéro contre, avec 3 abstentions.  La résolution est adoptée.
32.13 Nous passons maintenant à la résolution figurant au paragraphe 4a. Y a-t-il des  observations sur ce texte ? Je mets cette résolution aux voix.  (Le vote a lieu à main levée)
32.14 La résolution est adoptée par 59 voix, contre zéro, avec 7 abstentions.
32.15 Vient ensuite un long texte dont les paragraphes sont numérotés de 5 à 27. Je prie  la Conférence générale de prendre note de ce texte et de considérer la résolution qui fi-  gure au paragraphe 28. Pour être adoptée, cette résolution requiert une majorité des deux  tiers. Je la mets aux voix.  (Le vote a lieu a main levée)
32.16 La résolution est adoptée par 59 voix, contre 8, avec une abstention,
32.17 Je vous demanderai maintenant, Mesdames et Messieurs, de bien voutoir considé-  rer le projet de résolution figurant au paragraphe 33. Je vous rappelle que la Commission  administrative a décidé, par 39 voix contre 3, avec 2 abstentions, de recommander à la  Conférence générale l'adoption de ce projet de résolution. Je le mets aux voix.  (Le vote a lieu à main levée)
32.18 La résolution est adoptée par 52 voix contre 6, avec 3 abstentions.
32.19 Passons au paragraphe 36. La Commission a décidé, par 31 voix contre 4, avec 6  abstentions, de recommander à la Conférence d'approuver le projet de résolution qui figure  à ce paragraphe. Je le mets aux voix.  (Le vote a lieu à main levée)
32.20 La résolution est adoptée par 58 voix contre 6, avec 2 abstentions.
32.21 Je mets maintenant aux voix le projet de résolution figurant au paragraphe 44, dont  la Commission a décidé de recommander l'adoption par 47 voix contre zéro, avec 6  abstentions.  (Le vote a lieu à main levée)
32.22 La résolution est adoptée par 56 voix, avec 8 abstentions.
32,23 Prenons maintenant le projet de résolution révisé qui figure au paragraphe 45 et  qui a trait au "Mandat du Comité du Siège". La Commission l'a adopté par 38 voix avec
6 abstentions. Je le mets aux voix,  (Le vote a lieu à main levée)
32.24 La résolution est adoptée par 60 voix contre zéro, avec 8 abstentions.
32.25 Je mets maintenant aux voix la résolution figurant au paragraphe 46.  (Le vote a lieu à main levée)
32,26 Cette résolution est adoptée à l'unanimité.
32.27 Passons au paragraphe 47. La résolution qui y est contenue est un cordial hommage  au Directeur du Bureau des Conférences et des services généraux. Je suis sûr à l'avance  que je n'ai pas besoin de la mettre aux voix et qu'elle sera adoptée à l'unanimité.  (La résolution est votée par acclamation)
32.28 Je donne la parole au Directeur général,
33.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL, -  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, au terme de vos délibé-  rations, aucune résolution ne pouvait me toucher davantage que celle que vous venez d'adop-  ter à l'unanimité, et par laquelle vous me chargez de transmettre à M. Michel Montagnier  l'hommage de la Conférence générale et ses meilleurs voeux de prompt rétablissement.
33.2 Je suis allé le voir hier, pour lui porter cette résolution que la Commission adminis-  trative avait adoptée par acclamation, Il est possible qu'à l'heure où je parle, il nous écoute  de son lit, car j'ai trouvé un homme qui suit les travaux de la Conférence avec une lucidité  implacable. Il s'intéresse au fonctionnement complexe de cette grande machine qu'il a, plus  que tout autre, contribué à monter ot qui n'est pas une machine sans âme, d'abord à cause  de votre foi dans l'Unesco, à cause aussi de l'humanité de Michel Montagnier qui, au cours  des années, en a mis au point tous les mécanismes compliqués.
33.3 Comme vous le savez, Mesdames et Messieurs, il s'était particulièrement intéressé  au Projet relatif à la construction des nouveaux bâtiments du Siège. 11 nous a quittés le 28  septembre, la veille du jour où le Conseil exécuiif prenait possession de sa nouvelle salle.  Mais, grâce aux nombreuses visites qu'il a reçues, à la fidélité de ses collègues et de ses  amis des délégations, je crois qu'il a eu constamment le sentiment d'être parmi vous.
33.4 Michel Montagnier est un de mes amis, c'est aussi un grand fonctionnaire, et la ré-  solution que vous venez d'adopter, Mesdames et Messieurs, vous fait un grand honneur.
34.1 Le PRESIDENT. -  Vous me permettrez, Mesdames et Messieurs, d'ajouter un simple mot pour adresser  un cordial salut à Michel Montagnier, que j'ai eu, pendant la douzième session de la Confé-  rence générale, constamment à mes côtés - jour et nuit, dirais-je - et auquel je transmets,  comme vous tous, mes voeux les meilleurs.
34.2 Je vous demanderai maintenant, Mesdames et Messieurs, d'approuver l'ensemble du  Quatrième rapport de la Commission administrative contenu dans les deux documents 13 C/43  et 13 C/43 Add. 1, avec les modifications qui y ont été apportées au cours de vos délibéra-  tions. Je soumets done les deux parties de ce rapport à votre approbation, compte tenu de  toutes les modifications que vous y avez introduites par les votes que vous avez émis.  (Le vote a lieu à main levée)
34,3 Voici les résultats du vote : 58 voix pour, zéro contre, 7 abstentions: L'ensemble du  Quatrième rapport de la Commission administrative est donc adopté.
34.4 Avant de donner la parole au Président de la Commission administrative, M. Tuncel,  je me permets de lui exprimer, en notre nom à tous, nos vifs remerciements pour l'admi-  rable travail entrepris et réalisé par la Commission administrative, et de lui témoigner  notre satisfaction de le voir reprendre, après une courte absence, a la tête de sa Commis-  sion, les responsabilités que la Conférence générale lui a confiées.
34.5 Je donne la parole au Président de la Commission administrative.
35. M. TUNCEL (Turquie), président de la Commission administrative. -  Monsieur le Président, au nom de la Commission administrative, je tiens à remercier  de tout coeur les honorables délégués qui ont bien voulu témoigner de leur esprit de coopé-  ration à l'occasion de l'examen de notre rapport.
36.1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Je tiens à adresser au Rapporteur de la Commission administrative, notre distingué  collègue, M. Hassan Saffari, les remerciements de la Conférence générale.
36.2 La séance est levée.  The meeting rose at 5.15 p.m,  La séance est levée A 17 h,15,  Se levanta la sesién a las 17,15