24 November 1966 at 5.10 p.m,  IPresident: Mr, Bedrettin TUNCEL (Turkey)  TRENTIÈME SÉANCE PLÉNIÈRE
24 novembre 1966, à 17 h, 10  Président : M. Bedrettin TUNCEL (Turquie)  TRIGÉSIMA SESION PLENARIA
24 Hos6p4 1966 r. B 17 4, 10 M.  Ilpeacexaters: r-H Beapetun TYHUEJILb (Typuus)  UNESCO'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE PROMOTION OF THE AIMS AND OBJECTS  OF THE UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT DECADE (continued)  CONTRIBUTION DE L'UNESCO A LA REALISATION DES FINS ET DES OBJECTIFS  DE LA DECENNIE DES NATIONS UNIES POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT (suite)  CONTRIBUCION DE LA UNESCO AL LOGRO DE LAS FINALIDADES Y OBJETIVOS  DEL DECENIO DE LAS NACIONES UNIDAS PARA EL DESARROLLO (continuacién)  BKJIAL OHECKO B JOCTHXEHHE UEJEH IMECHTHIETHS PA3BHTHA  OPMAHH3AIIHH OBPEMMHEHHEBIX HAUHH (npononxenne)
1.1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Je déclare ouverte la 30e séance plénière,
1.2 Mesdames, Messieurs, nous reprenons l'examen du point 11 de l'ordre du jour : Con-  tribution de l'Unesco à la réalisation des fins et des objectifs de la Décennie des Nations  Unies pour le développement. Hier, nous avons entendu la présentation du nouveau projet  de résolution sur lequel s'étaient mis d'accord les auteurs des trois projets dont la Confé-  rence avait été primitivement saisie. Depuis, un certain nombre d'améliorations rédac-  tionnelles ont été apportées à ce texte. Le nouveau texte qui est soumis aujourd'hui à la Con-  férence générale porte la cote 14 C/DR,205 Rev. Je demande à S, Exc. M, Kirpal, chef de  la délégation de l'Inde, de bien vouloir nous présenter le nouveau projet de résolution.
2.1 Mr. KIRPAL (India):  Mr. President, and fellow delegates, I shall very briefly introduce document
14 C/DR .205 Rev., a new version of 14 C/DR.205, which you now have before you.
2.2 In substance the resolution remains the same as the text you saw yesterday but, as  you know, the Director-General has made certain suggestions and some questions were  asked from the floor. Keeping those suggestions in mind and also the views expressed
839   XXX Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  here yesterday, we have made slight changes which I think render the new draft more ac-  ceptable, clearer in presentation, more methodical, I shall therefore, very briefly indi-  cate to you the changes which have been effected.
2,3 In the first place, Mr. President, 1 would like to point out a correction that should be  made in paragraph 1 of the revised draft. The year referred to in the initial paragraph  should be 1961 and not 1860, Apart from that there is no change on page one of the English  draft, On page two, in the last consideranda but one, there is an addition which clarifies  the meaning, following the point raised by the delegate of France. Two or three lines have  been added to make the reference to the resolution of the General Assembly more explicit.  Then you will note at the end of page two of the revised English draft, that the final consi-  deranda of document 14 C/DR,205 now becomes section I of the operative part of the re-  vised text: section II of the revised draft otherwise remains as in the document presented  yesterday. Section III incorporates a slight change following the suggestion made by the  Director-General, The old paragraph II.(1) (a) is now to appear as paragraph III, 1, while  the new paragraph II1,2 is the old paragraph II(1) (b) reworded, In section }V, there is  one addition, again arising out of the question raised concerning the effect of this resolu-  tion on the budget. Section IV now begins: "Instructs the Director-General to make in-  creased efforts...”". ‘Then follow the various instructions to the Director-General till you  come to the new wording of paragraph 6, section IV page 4 of the English draft (former  paragraph HI (8)): "To draw more widely on the social sciences and their application and  to make increased use of the media of mass communication...". This addition, the refe-  rence to the social science and their application, arises out of the suggestion made by the  distinguished delegate of Mexico, Professor Zavala, Section V, inviting the Director-  General to take various steps, consists substantially of the remaining elements of Section  IIT of the draft resolution presented yesterday. As I said earlier, the new draft is a con-  siderable improvement, in presentation and in clarity, over the one which was preseated  here yesterday.
2.4 To conclude, Mr, President, I would again like to appeal to my colleagues to adopt  this resolution unanimously and I would again like to underline the view that the lengthy  consideranda do not commit anyone in respect of the various references made within it,  The operative part is so expressed that I am sure we shall be united here in its support.  So, in presenting the resolution in this form, I trust that it will be unanimously accepted  by the General Conference. A unanimous adoption of this resolution today would mean our  renewal of faith in the Development Decade, Its objectives and its aims, and our determi-  nation that everything possible should be done by all concerned - by the Member States,  by the United Nations Agencies - to redouble their efforts for the cause of development,
2.5 I have the honour, Mr, President, to submit resolution 14 C/DR.205 Rev, for the  approval of the General Conference.
3.1 Le PRESIDENT. -  Je tiens, à l'occasion de la présentation de ce nouveau projet de résolution, à remer-  cier chaleureusement la délégation de l'Inde de l'admirable travail qu'elle a fourni, et à  féliciter personnellement S. Exc. M. Kirpal de la part qu'il a prise à ce travail,
3.2 Je donne la parole à S, Exc. M, Frankel, chef de la délégation des Etats-Unis  d'Amérique.
4,1 Mr. FRANKEL (United States of America): .  Mr. President, distinguished delegates, I wish to begin by stressing the gratitude of  my delegation for the willingness of this mroup to defer a vote on the draft resolution be-  fore us, and further discussion, until this afternoon. This has given my delegation alittle  more tiine for consideration of this question, but I am afraid it has still not given us the  time that we think appropriate for genuinely reasoned examination of the issues.
4.2 The United States has considered the matter before us prayerfully. I have conducted  informal discussions with various colleagues and friends in the hope that some of our con-  cern: about the resolution might be eliminated and that we might be able to work out a un-  animous approach to the question. Unfortunately, the resolution which has been put before  us now (14 C/DR,205 Rev.) does not change the matter very much, from our point of view.
4,3 With your permission, Mr. President, I should like to describe to you the process of  thought that has gone on in our minds as we have tried to decide what to do. We have a  choice between voting for this resolution, abstaining from any vote, and voting against it.  We have thought about it carefully, The issue is of the greatest importance, and I am per-  fectly willing to say that something is indeed to be said for each of these choices.
4.4 There are some weighty reasons behind voting for the proposition before this Confe-  rence, Certainly the United States agrees that the needs in the area of development are  urgent, As I said the other day, we believe these needs are urgent and that we are indeed,  all of us together, lagging behind; and we believe this in our own self-interest as well as  in the interest of the human community as such, I hope you will not mind my reminding  you, Mr. President, and my fellow delegates, that the United States after all played a  leading réle in the development in the United Nations of the entire idea for a United Nations  Development Decade, We are solidly behind this idea, I think this has been demonstrated  not only in words but in deed; and we intend to continue, whatever the outcome of the de-  bate today, to do what we can to advance the cause of economic and social development in  the less developed countries, working actively through appropriate organizations and agen-  cles and in close and equal co-operation with the developing countries. From this point of  view, certainly, it is an attractive proposition that has been put before us. And, if we  look at it not too carefully or closely but simply in terms of the emotional attitudes gene -  rated, then it is a proposition for which a good case can be made that an affirmative vote  is called for.
4.5 Let us now look at the case for abstention. There are, I think, two general conside -  rations which must be taken into account in support of an abstaining vote. That, indeed,  is a vote, The first consideration is that the matters here put before us are not matters  lying within the Unesco province, they are not matters on which Unesco, as such, has  either the authority or the competence to vote. They are out of bounds from the point of  view of our own proper work and they are out of bounds, to put it quite candidly, from the  point of view of the professional competence of most members of most delegations here,  for they ralse wery complicated economic and financial considerations which are properly  studiedin appropriate forums of the United Nations such as the Economic and Social Council.
4.6 The second reason for an abstaining vote would be that the pros and cons of this reso-  lution cancelled each other out. Frankly, I am puzzled by the statement that we are asked  to vote simply on the operative portions of this resolution. It is a fact that with regard to  most, though not all of the operative portions, the United States could happily agree. But  if all the considerations and introductions and prefaces - which take two-and-a-half pages -  makes no difference, why are they there? Would those who have put this resolution before  us - and they include many States and delegations, all of whom I respect - be willing to  remove all this first part? If it makes no difference, why is this first part there? Is it  not the case that the operative portions must after all be interpreted in terms of the spirit  put before us, as described in the first part? One must take words seriously, I take them  seriously, and accordingly I am puzzled, perplexed, baffled when I am confronted with a  four-page document that people have laboured over carefully, and am told only the last  page counts. Accordingly, one would be inclined to abstain here on the grounds that one  does not know what one is being asked to vote for or against.
4.7 But there are reasons for saying "No" as well, And they are serious reasons. The  firat is that the United States came here very seriously to do constructive business, and  certainly to do constructive business in the c: sse of development, I do not think there can  be any honest question of our commitment on this - at this Conferende or elsewhere. In
841   XXX Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  order for the United States Government to be committed on complex matters in the field of  development, the Department of the Treasury must properly be consulted, our Congress  must properly be consulted, the Department of Commerce must be consulted, various  people in the Department of States must be consulted, A serlous commitment is involved  in this resolution, we do not regard it as a bag of words, but a commitment, We are not  prepared to make any such commitment because we have simply not had tha chance to pre-  pare the way. We have not had an opportunity for proper consultation. This is not a mat-  ter that can be responsibly decided - if you really believe in development in all its com-  plexities - by words. It must be decidedinterms of serious consultation within governments  and between governments. From that point of view, not having had a chance to consult,  we are inclined to vote "No" because this proposition is not only vague and out-of-bounds,  but one that should not properly come before us.
4.8 There are other reasons too. The resolution raises, we believe, many, many com-  plex economic issues with regard to which slogans are worse than irrelevent. Slogans are  misleading. They give an air of certainty about matters that are not certain, They raise  hopes, when sober, proper concern for one's fellow men involves not raising hopes where  their hopes should not be raised, They spread discontent, on the basis of allegations that  cannot be wholly sustained.
4.9 Mr. President, fellow delegates, to my mind it would be a great tragedy if, in the  matter of our concerted and co-operative responsibility with regard to development, de-  veloped and the underdeveloped nations were put asunder, It would be a tragedy if we were  separated into two camps. What we are trying to do in promoting development, is tocreate  one human camp. It cannot be done with slogans which explicitly or implicitly put all the  blame on one side and all the credit on the other. No country comes here with clean hands,  no human being enters any room with clean hands, no one, And resolutions that put the  matter in this way, seem to me to be inappropriate for an organization that calls itself the  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
4.10 But a final reason for saying "No", to my mind, and the most persuasive reason, is  that this is bad for development and bad for Unesco. It is bad for development because it  substitutes words for deeds - false words, It is bad for development because it arouses  feelings while no appropriate channel for satisfying these feelings is really devised. And  it is bad for Unesco because it puts Unesco on record as taking a position on matters on  which it is really not competent to take a position, This hurts Unesco, it does not help it,  And it hurts development because the more we talk, the more cynicism we create if our  talk is not followed by action. It is very dangerous to promote cynicism about sacred  causes, Talking about peace or talking about development, loosely, without real thought,  without careful planning, can lead in the end only to the frustration of great masses of  mankind. It can lead them to distrust all of us here who sit in halls where their leaders  are supposed to be, They will in the end say you talk, talk, talk, but what do you do? And  this does seem to me to be talk.
4.11 Now I have spoken honestly and candidly, and I said when I first came to these meet-  ings that I would do so. I speak honestly and candidly here because I think that this is an  important question which confronts us all with a fundamental moral issue. The first alter-  native, to vote in favour of the resolution would be agreeable, The second alternative, to  abstain, would be easiest. The third, I must say, to vote "No", is for us in the United  States the only honest thing to do. I say this with the greatest regret, We should like to  be with our many friends here and we hope they will be convinced by what we do, generally,  that we are with them in the cause of development, wholly with them, But we must vote  "No", in loyalty to development, to Unesco and, in our view, in.simple honesty.
4.12 Other delegations will no doubt see it differently. They may be right, we may be  wrong. That is the nature of international relations and we can well understand why other .  delegations may take different views. But our view is that it is the path of wisdom and  honesty to vote "No" on this resolution.
5, Le PRESIDENT:  Je remercie S, Exc, M, Frankel et je donne la parole à M, von Beyme, au nom de  la délégation de la République fédérale d'Allemagne.
6.1 Mr, von BEYME (Federal Republic of Germany):  Mr, President, distinguished delegates, the draft resolution submitted to us deals  with a number of most important and valuable proposals for increased and improved as-  sistance to developing countries. The Federal Republic of Germany has, for many years,  made a considerable effort in development aid on a multilateral as well as a bilateral ba-  sis. Allow me to recall in this context, Mr. President, that my country ranks fourth in  this field. We therefore welcome all initiatives taken to meet this most urgent and serious  problem,
6.2 However, the draft that we are considering contains a number of items which refer  to important economic questions that seem to me not within the real competence of Unesco.  Moreover, this delegation is not in a position to take decisions that might bind my govern-  ment legally. We shall therefore have to abstain in this vote. I would like, however, to  assure you, Mr. President, once again that my government will continue to do its best  within the framework of Unesco to participate in development aid in every possible way.
7. Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie M. von Beyme et je donne la parole à M. de Sayve, au nom de la déléga-  tion frangaise.
8.1 M. de SAYVE, -  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Meseieurs les délégués, je voudrais d'abord re-  mercier les nuteurs du projet de résolution 14 C/DR. 205 Rev. des efforts qu'ils ont faits  pour tenir compte des quelques observations que j'avais formulées hier,
8.2 Mais, à lire de plus près le nouveau projet de résolution, je suis obligé d'avouer que  j'y trouve encore des détails qui m'embarrassent beaucoup. Je pense, par exemple, à la  section IN, paragraphe 2 :"Autorise le Directeur général .,. à s'efforcer enparticulier..."  J'ai déjà dit que je demanderais un vote distinct sur ce paragraphe. En effet, on demande aux re-  présentants des Etats membres d'adopter à l'avance le principe qui y est implicite, Voilà  une chose que je me sers parfaitement incapable de faire, et à laquelle je suis même obligé  de m'opposer, Car je sens que mes collègues du Programme des Nations Unies pour le dé-  veloppement ne comprendraient pas que je prenne position sur cette question sans être en  plein accord avec eux - et je nc le sufs pas,
8.3 Bref, Monsieur le Président, la délégation française regrette,- a certains égards,  l'effort d'unification qui a été fait. Avant-hier, à la vingt-huitième séance plénière, le dé-  légué du Brésil nous a présenté un projet de résolution qui me paraissait d'autant plus  simple qu'il consistait à approuver le document 14 C/10. J'ai l'impression qu'ici toutes  les délégations approuveraient ce document, et qu'un tel projet de résolution serait adopté  sans difficulté. Le projet qui nous est présenté maintenant est beaucoup plus ambitieux ;  ses attendus soulèvent, pour chacun de nous, toute sorte de probième, Cependant, puisque  c'est le seul texte qui soit soumis à la Conférence générale, je me permets, Monsieur le  Président, de vous demander de faire voter séparément le paragraphe 1 et le paragraphe
2 de la section III du dispositif : (Autorise le Directeur général. ...).
9. Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie M. de Sayve et je donne la parole à Dame Mary Smieton au nom de la dé-  légation du Royaume-Uni.
10,1 Dame Mary SMIETON (United Kingdom):  Mr. President, my government too is in real difficulty about this draft resolution.  My government, like all of us here, is committeed to development as a policy in which we
843   XXX Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  believe and in which we participate, We like others are concerned with the situa‘ion re-  vealed half -way through the Development Decade, and the delegate from the Unit3d King-  dom who spoke in the main debate made this, I think, very clear,
10,2 It is right that Unesco should review what it ought to do and what it can do, in terms  of the resolutions addressed to it from other United Nations bodies, But this draft reso-  lution has many drawbacks, It deals with matters outside Unesco's competence and I do  not think that it will add to Unesco's reputation for responsible action,
10.3 I cannot as a government delegate vote in favour of an urgent appeal to my own go-  vernment, amongst others, to increase its contribution to the development programme  without the knowledge which I could not possibly have at this stage and at this time of what  policy it will adopt. I cannot vote to authorize the Director-General to take action in res-  pect of counterpart arrangements of which, for reasons that the delegate who spoke before  me made clear, the United Kingdom representative of the same government would take a  different view when this came up for discussion in the proper forum.
10,4 These are the kinds of difficulty that I see. If my conclusions on the vote differ from  those of the United States delegate, I don't really think there is very much init. Itis a  toss-up - you vote against or you abstain. I do not, I cannot contemplate voting in favour,  much as I am in general sympathy with the alm and the purpose. I would have liked to do  so, but - and this is really an explanation of my vote before I make it - I wanted to inform  the Conference of the difficulty in which I feel placed by this draft resolution, even though  I deeply appreciate ag others have done, the effort and time and labour put into it by those  who have brought together the various suggestions that we have before us.
11, Le PRESIDENT:  Je remercie Dame Mary Smieton et je donne la parole à S. Exc, M. Kirpal, au nom  de la délégation de l'Inde,
12.1 Mr, KIRPAL (India):  Mr. President, I have asked for the floor again to reply to some of the statements that  have been made. In the first place, Mr. President, I share the concern and the regrets  that have been expressed, and for me it will be a sorrow to see the Conference divided on  this issue - divided in terms of the developed countries and the developing countries. We  had never thought that this kind of situation would arise in dealing with the subject of the  Development Decade in this Conference.
12.2 According to the statements we have heard, the main objection seems to be that these  are matters outside Unesco's competence, that this General Conference should not deal  with the promotion of education, science, culture and communication for the development  of mankind. l am quite bewildered, Mr. President, by this contention. We have not been  given any explanation by our legal authorities to the effect that Unesco is not competent to  deal with development, In fact, this is the subject of most of our programme, We are  told that two-thirds of our normal programme is for development, and here in this reso-  lution what we have proposed is aligned with things which feature in our programme, which  have been voted upon by our General Conference, not this time, not last time, but even  before the Development Decade started. So it remains a mystery to me why this should  be considered outside the competence of Unesco as a United Nations Agency dealing with  the fields of education, science and culture for the development of mankind,
12.3 This was the main reason which led to the hesitation of certain of our distinguished  colleagues who have spoken here on the resolution which we have supported. The honour-  able leader of the United States delegation rightly said in the beginning - and we all agree  with him, and this was the basis of our action - that needs in the area of development are  urgent and we are all lagging benind. Now, if the needs in the area of development for  education, sclence, culture and communication are urgent, and if it is a pity that we are  sadly lagging behind, then which is the world organization responsible for these fields?
844   Sesiones plenarias /llsenapxse saceoanus XXX  Which is the organization that has to take note of this situation and to say something about  it? It is obviously our General Conference at Unesco which is responsible for these fields,
12,4 We have here no proposals for development in fields outside Unesco's competence.  I also fall to see any slogans in our resolution, even in the considering clauses, What we  included in the consideranda was done after the fullest reflection and discussion and with  no thought of raising slogans, These are matters which have been discussed time and  again by responsible people in the United Nationa bodies, They are part of the records,  even of the decislon'i, of various meetings of the United Nations. So we cannot see that  the nature of this resolution, or that the intention of the 56 countries who subscribe to it,  was in any way irresponsible or that these delegations wanted to make this General Con-  ference deal with any subject outside its competence,
12.5 We did not wish to raise slogans. We were moved by the same concern which the  United States delegate expressed, namely, the needs in the area of development are ur-  gent and we are lagging behind, We have seen the Director-General's report, That re-  port makes it quite clear that development in the fields of Unesco's competence has not  been sufficient, This development has to contribute to the overall objectives of the United  Nations Decade in which Unesco has a réle to play. To decide that Unesco is not compe-  tent to play a rôle in the promotion of the programmes of the United Nations Development  Decade, is to reject the rôle of education, science, culture and communication in this  field. Is that the feeling of the distinguished delegates who hesitate to vote for this reso-  lution?
12.6 This resolution does not commit the chanceries of the world to pay out any money.  These are appeals, appeals from 56 countries, to take note of the state of development in  the fields of education, science, culture and communications today, ar’ to ask the Mem-  ber States to think about it, to do something about it, if they wish to do anything about it.  These are appeals to Member States to do something themselves for development, to  adopt some new programmes, some new activities, within the framework of the programme  and budget of Unesco,
12.7 Mr. President, I merely wished to say that our resolution seems to have been some -  what misunderstood, since it appears to raise so many objections from so many parties,  I hope that the statement I have made will dispel these objections and that we shall still be  able to see our way clear to voting for it, because, to our mind, it is merely an exhorta-  tion to all concerned to do something more for development than has been done so far.
13.1 Le PRESIDENT. -  Avant de donner la parole au Directeur général qui l'a demandée, je tiens, en tant que  Président de la Conférence générale, à relever un mot qui a été prononcé dans l'une des  interventions au sujet du projet de résolution qui nous est soumis, Il s'agit de la "réputa-  tion de l'Unesco",
13.2 Je puis vous assuror, Mesdames et Messieurs, en tant que Président de cette as-  semblée, que la réputation de l'Unesco est pure et intacte. :
13. 3 Je donne la parole au Directeur général.
14,1 Le DIRECTEUR GENVRAL, -  Je vous remercie, Monsjeur le Président, de m'avoir donné la parole et je remercie  aussi S, Exc. le Chef de la délégation des Etats-Unis d'Amérique qui a bien voulu me per-  mettre de dire quelques mots avant lui,
14,2 Mon propos, Mesdames, Messieurs, n'est pas d'argumenter pour ou contre le pro-  jet de résolution qui vous est soumis. Permettez-moi d'abord de vous exprimer, en toute  sincérité, la tristesse et l'inquiétude que j'éprouve devant la situation où vous vous trou-  vez : il y a, apparemment, une très grande majorité, composée essentiellement, mais
846   XXX Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  non uniquernent des pays en voie de développement, qui est en faveur du projet de résolu-  tion 14 C/DR, 205 Rev, ou d'un projet analogue ; et il y a une minorité impressionnante,  composée de pays développés et de pays qui, à l'Unesco et en dehors de l'Unesco, con-  tribuent dans une large mesure au développement, par leurs programmes d'aide bilatérale,  Ce serait, en vérité, un drame si les sentiments communs qui animent les uns et les autres  aboutissalent à une division aussi éclatante sur un sujet aussi essentiel,
14,3 C'est pourquoi j'ai pensé que vous me permettriez de sortir de la réserve à laquelle  mes obligations et la prudence m'inciteraient à me tenir, pour présenter quelques sugges-  tions et, peut-être, pour lancer un appel, afin d'éviter une telle cassure, Car la coopéra-  tion pour le développement n'est pas affaire de majorité, mais d'unanimité, Et le peu que  l'Unesco fait pour le développement tire sa valeur de cette unanimité, même s'il est vrai  que, pour l'atteindre, fl faut que les uns et les autres renoncent à certaines préférences  sur certains points ou certains modes d'action,
14,4 Voici maintenant ce que je voudrais faire observer : la base du présent débat est l'in-  vitation qui a été adressée à l'Unesco par le Conseil économique et social et qui est rap-  pelée dans le dernier considérant du projet de résolution : ("Rappelant Y invitation adressée  . .. aux institutions intéressées des Nations Unies ..,"). Le Conseil économique et social,  dont l'autorité n'est contestée par personne et est invoquée par tous, vous adresse, Mes-  dames, Messieurs, une invitation qu'il a votée à sa session de juillet dernier, Cette invi-  tation est très claire : elle vous demande de procéder à un examen critique des programmes,  des pratiques et des procédures de l'Unesco, "y compris les arrangements inter-organisa-  tions, en fonction de la perspective à long terme envisagée dans la présente résolution",
14.5 11 est permis, naturellement, de ne pas être d'accord sur ce que l'on peut inclure  dans cette perspective, mais cette perspective est claire, et tout ce qui est présenté dans  cette perspective est recevable. On peut voter pour ou contre ce qui est ainsi proposé,  mais personne ne peut dire que le débat s'égare lorsqu'on fait quelque chose qui est de-  mandé par le Conseil économique et social dans la résolution dont il s'agit.
14,6 Pour vous aider à prendre une décision que je considère comme très importante et  qui s'harmonise parfaitement avec les tendances qui se dégagent du débat général - faire  de la planification à long terme pour les deux tiers de l'action de l'Unesco - je vous ai pré-  senté, Mesdames, Messieurs, un rapport qui porte la cote 14 C/10. Telles sont, me  semble-til, les bases juridiques et politiques de la décision que vous avez à prendre et, en  même temps, la documentation qui peut vous servir à vous prononcer.
14,7 Il me semble qu'il ne devrait pas être trop difficile, si chacun fait un effort d'objee-  tivité, d'examiner paragraphe par paragraphe les considérants et le dispositif du projet de  résolution en se posant les deux questions sufvantes : "Est-ce que cela est conforme à l'in-  vitation du Conseil économique et social ?'" et "Peut-on se référer à un rapport du Secré-  tariat, qui n'est peut-être pas absolument parfait, mais qui est substantiel et qui résume  l'expérience de l'Organisation depuis de nombreuses années ? '' Je crois qu'au point où nous  en sommes ce suprême effort d'analyse n'est pas impossible, et que l'effort de clarifica-  tion qui a été fait dens la forme, in extremis, peut permettre de répondre à ces questions,
14,8 Je vais peut-être aller un peu loin, trop loin même, mais c'est pour vous aider tous,  Mesdarnes, Messieurs, les uns et les autres.
14.9 On a parlé des considérants, M est possible qu'il y en ait un qui, à première vue,  paraisse excéder la compétence de l'Unesco, à savoir celui qui évoque "la politique des  prix des matières premières''. Je ne discute pas cette question : je n'ai aucune compétence  à cet égard. On peut dire que ce considérant évoque une question capitale, mais sur la-  quelle le Conseil économique et social n'attend sans doute pas un avis de l'Unesco, Et je  me permettrai de dire ceci à mon ami Prem Kirpal, que je connais depuis tant d'années :  je sais bien que cette question intéresse beaucoup des délégations présentes ici, mals, en  tant que Directeur général, j'estime que la politique des prix des matières premières ne
846   Sesiones plenarias /litenapune Jacevanua XXX  rentre pas exactement dans le cadre du Programme qu'exécute le Secrétariat, Ce sera ma  seule remarque sur ce point,
14,10 On a parlé aussi du paragraphe 3 de la section H du dispositif. On a dit qu'il s'agls-  sait, en fait, d'exhorter les gouvernements à faire quelque chose dont on ne sait pas du tout  s'ils veulent le faire, Peut-être pourrait-on envisager de renoncer à ce paragraphe étant donné  que le paragraphe suivant reprend la même {dée sous une forme plus générale. Je ne pense pas  que cette suggestion soitirrecevable, En tout cas, elle ne soulève aucune objection de principe,
14. 11 Un vote séparé a été demandé sur le paragraphe 2 de la section III du dispositif. Je  tiens à préciser la façon dont j'interprète ce-paragraphe : je ne serais pas obligé d'obtenir,  je suis simplement autorisé à m'efforcer d'obtenir que soit prévue une période de mise en  train, Il n'y a rien là, à mon avis, qui soit de nature à diviser Ja Conférence générale, On  pourra recourir à un vote séparé, comme il a été demandé très opportunément, me  semble-t-il, mais ce n'est pas une raison pour que l'on fasse, d'un côté et de l'autre, des  déclarations qui marqueraient une division profonde de l'Organisation, l'année même de  son vingtième anniversaire.
14,12 Si jamais j'étais délégué - peut-être cela m'arrivera-t-il un jour - je vous deman-  derais, Monsieur le Président, de ne pas mettre ce projet de résolution aux voix, ce soir  - si toutefois, le Chef de la délégation de l'Inde accepte qu'il en soit ainsi. Peut-être un  tel ajournement permettrait-il d'ultimes rencontres entre un petit nombre de délégués, dû-  ment mandatés, qui pourraient examiner avec soin chaque paragraphe, en se demandant  s'il est conforme au dernier considérant, qui rappelle l'invitation adressée à l'Unesco par  le Conseil économique et social des Nations Unies,
14,13 Telle est, Monsieur le Président, la suggestion que je me permets de présenter à  la Conférence générale en ayant uniquement en vue l'intérêt de l'Organisation.
15,1 Le PRESIDENT. -  Si je devais interpréter vos applaudissements, Mesdames et Messieurs, je dirais que  vous souhaitez remettre à demain le vote sur le projet de résolution qui vous est soumis,
15,2 Je donne la parole à S. Exc, M. Frankel, chef de la délégation des Etats-Unis,
16,1 Mr, FRANKEL (United States of America):  I wish not only to clarify my previous remarks, but to express my very deep admira-  tion for what the Director-General has just said. We are having here a genuine debate;  and this debate, as I understand it, does not consist simply in the exchange of prefabricated  opinions, but is a genuine effort to understand one another, to see whether something bet-  ter can come out of the discussion.
16.2 I cannot give an immediate answer as to the proposal to delay a vote which the  Director-General has put before us, I would like to talk to my colleagues, and give this  some thought. But I would like to prepare the way for a better approach to these matters  by making certain things very plain. I appreciated Mr, Kirpal's conciliatory and amicable  response to my remarks, I want to make it very plain that I inade no statement whatso-  ever about the irresponsibility of those who have put forward this resolution. They have  worked very hard, and the sincerity of their intentions is transparently clear as is the  thoughtfulness with which they have done their job. I argued that they were dealing with  very complicated matters, matters on which it is difficult to agree quickly and on which it  is quite possible for reasonable and honourable men to disagree. And no suggestion of  irresponsibility on the part of anyone has been made,
16.3 I also fully agree that Unesco has a great responsibility, a major responsibility in  the field of development - in the field of development and the relation of education, science  and culture to development, My concern has been from the beginning that we concentrate  on this and not be turned aside into other fields.
847   XXX Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
16,4 As the Director-General has remarked, anyone who examines this draft resolution  will discover, on the first page, economic findings, commercial findings, historical find-  ings,all of which are surely subject to at least some disagreement and debate. They throw  dust in people's eyes. This does not mean that those who make these statements are ir-  responsible, but they do ask for unanimous agreement on matters on which we are not  unanimous, And as the Director-General said, development is a co-operative business,  it requires collaboration among all of us, not majority votes. I would also say that par-  liaments do not decide tough objective questions of how to develop economically and so-  cially, They do not decide these problems - life decides them, scientific inquiry decides  them. And we ought ta be very careful about putting Unesco on record in these matters,  But I hope that the position of my delegation is clear, We, too, would like to come out of  this debate with a statement on Unesco's responsibilitics for development. We only ask  that this should be possible, and we say that what we now have makes it impossible,
17. Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie S, Exc, M, Frankel et je donne la parole à S. Exc. M. Chagas, au nom  de la délégation du Brésil.
18,1 M, CHAGAS (Brésil). -  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, depuis ma première in-  tervention sur ce sujet, je lance un appel à cette assemblée pour que se réalise l'unani-  mité sur un projet de résolution dont l'importance ne peut nous échapper.
18,2 Je suis monté A cette tribune pour apporter mon appui à la suggestion du Directeur  général, parce que j'estime, d'une part, que nous avons besoin d'unanimité, et, d'autre  part - je parle maintenant en tant que membre du Comité consultatif du Conseil économique  et social - qu'il faut donner au Directeur général de l'Unesco des directives précises, parce  que notre Comité, comme le Conseil lui-même, ne peut pas se passer de l'appui efficace  de l'Unesco,
18,3 Nous voulons tous renforcer l'action en faveur du développement dans le cadre du  programme et du budget de l'Organisation, comme il est précisé dans le projet de résolu-  tion, M faut donc qu'une solution soit trouvée, mais il faut que ce soit sous la forme d'une  résolution claire et précise, dont les directives donnent au Directeur général l'appui qu'il  désire et dont il a besoin.
19. Le PRESIDENT, -  Je donne la parole à S. Exe. M. Gallardo, chef de la délégation d'El Salvador,
(20.1) M, GALLARDO (El Salvador), - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Je crois que certains de mes collègues ont entendu hier, pour la première fois dans cette enceinte  etencette occasion, les termes de compétence et d'incompétence employés au sujet de l'Unesco, et  c'est mof qui les af utilisés. I! s'agissait de la compétence ou de l'incompétence de l'Unesco dans  certains secteurs de l'économie, et de ce qu'on appelle l'intégration de l'enseignement à 1'écono-  mie. Je ne crois pas que ce soit là une question d'opinion purement personnelle ou de préférence  individuelle pour l'une ou l'autre position ; mais, À la lumtère de l'expérience acquise en prenant  part à des débats internationaux au sein d'organismes du monde entier, je me permets, confor-  mément à la suggestion du Directeur général, reprise par le roprés>ntant du Brésil, qui tend à  la recherche d'un nouvel accord entre les auteurs du projet de résolution considéré, d'inciter  ceux-ci à supprimer la majeure partie du préambule, qui est, en fait, la principale source de dif-  ficultés. On pourrait fort bien dire : "Rappelant et considérant la résolution 1710" et répéter dans  chaque alinéa "Rappelant la résolution ....". Je ne vois pas ce qui empêcherait l'Unesco d'inter-  venir, étant donné surtout que son opinion a été sollicitée par la résolution 1710 de l'Assemblée  générale. Des "rappels” de ce genre sont tout à fait à leur place dans le préambule ; mals jeprie  instamment les auteurs du projet de supprimer tous les autres termes qui mécontentent aussi  bien les pays avancés que les pays en voie de développement,
(20.2) La seconde partie, c'est-à-dire le dispositif, est extrêmement importante. Elle invite les  Etats membres à poursuivre l'exécution de certains plans, et à intensifier leurs efforts pour me-  ner à bien certains projets ; même si cette tentative échoue, elle n'aura rien de répréhensible et  l'Unesco n'aura porté préjudice à aucuné autre organisation internationale.
(20.3) Pouren venir à la remarque du représentant de la France, il pourrait eneffet sembler à  première vue délicat pour les délégués d'adopter une résolution différente de celles que les re-  présentants de leurs pays respectifs aur. Nations Unies adoptent en ce moment même et ont adop -  tées dans le passé. Mais, comme l'a fort bien montré le Directeur général, le paragraphe 2 de  la partie III prévoit simplement qu'on s'efforcera d'obtenir un certain résultat ; en cas d'échec  aucune faute grave n'aura été commise,
(20.4) Je suggère donc que le préambule soit réduit au strict minimum et que dans le dispositif,  après la formule : "Rappelant et considérant... . " on lise : "Souscrit à l'ensemble des considéra-  tions ..., formulées par le Directeur général dans le document 14 C/10" et "Exhorte les Etats  membres’, Ensuite viendraient successivement les sections qui commencent par les mots: "Au-  torise le Directeur général”, "Charge le Directeur général" et, enfin, "Invite le Directeur géné-  ral”. En d'autres termes, il conviendrait de diviser le projet de résolution en deux parties ; c'est  ce que j'invite ses auteurs à faire pour faciliter notre vote.
21, Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie S. Exc. M. Gallardo et je donne la parole à M. Biloa, délégué du  Cameroun,
22,1 M. BILOA (Cameroun). -  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames, Messieurs les  délégués, je ne cesse d'être surpris depuis que je suis les travaux de cette quatorzième
849   XXX Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  session de la Conférence générale, On dit, en effet, qu'on ne fait pas de politique parce  que notre Organisation ne doit pas s'occuper de politique, mais À peine une occasion s'of-  fre-t-elle que nous nous retrouvons en pleine politique,
22,2 À propos du projet de résolution qui nous est soumis, je tiens tout d'abord à mani-  fester mon admiration pour le travail qui a été effectué et je voudrais féliciter particuliè-  rement S, Exe, le chef de la délégation de l'Inde, D'autre part, je comprends parfaitement  les objections et les remarques qui ont été faites par les délégués de l'Inde, de la France  et des Etats-Unis.
22,3 Me tournant maintenant vers le Directeur général, je le remercie de l'esprit dans  lequel il s'efforce constamment de faire progresser les travaux de notre Organisation,  Mais je voudrais attirer l'attention de cette assemblée sur le considérant du projet de ré-  solution relatif aux prix des matières premières. Je ne suis pas d'accord avec le Direc-  teur général lorsqu'il affirme que cette question ne relève pas de la compétence de notre  Organisation, Certes, l'Unesco n'est pas habilitée à discuter des prix des matières pre-  mières, Mais nous, petits payeurs, comment pourrons-nous fournir nos contributions au  programme, nous acquitter des contreparties nationales, sinon avec le produit de nos ma-  tières premières, qui sont ms seules richesses ? Et, dès lors que ces matières premières  se vendent mal, je crois que nous sommes fondés à dire que l'Unesco peut se pencher d'une  certaine façon sur la question de leurs prix, non pour obliger les Etats à prendre des dé-  cisions à ce sujet, mais - comme le dit fort bien le projet de résolution - pour autoriser  le Directeur général à se faire l'interprète de l'Organisation auprès des institutions com-  pétentes. Je crois que cela n'implique absolument aucun engagement de la part des Etats,  et c'est pourquoi je pense que cette question des prix des matières premières peut fort  bien être soulevée incidemment dans le cadre de l'Unesco,
22,4 Cela cit, je me rallie aux suggestions du Directeur général, et je le remercie en-  core une fois de l'ardeur avec laquelle il recherche une solution efficace,
23. Le PRESIDENT. -  Je donne la parole à S, Exc. M. Vidaurreta, chef de la délégation de Cuba,
(24.1) M. MARINELLO VIDAURRETA (Cuba). - (‘/raduit de l'espagnol. )  Monsieur le Président, Messieurs, étant donné l'heure déjà tardive, et puisqu'il a été pro-  posé de poursuivre demain cet important débat, je serai bref : la délégation cubaine tient toute-  fois à faire connaître son opinion, que partagent de nombreux membres de cette assemblée.
(24. 2) Nous désirons en tout premier lieu renouveler ici l'hommage mérité rendu au Groupe de  travail qui, sous la direction éminente du délégué de l'Inde, nous a soumis un projet de résolu-  tion que nous jugeons, pour notre part, tout à fait opportun. .
(24. 3) Nous avons entendu, au cours des séances antérieures, les témoignages importants de dé-  légués qui ont rappelé des faits bien connus - A savoir les difficultés rencontrées et les échecs  enregistrés dans le cadre de la Décennie des Nations Unies pour le développement. Si nous avions  le loisir d'aller jusqu'au fond de la question et de remonter aux origines des faits, nous nous ren-  drions vite compte que ce problème, ces difficultés et ces échecs sont dus en grande partie à la  structure économique des pays auxquels une aide est accordée ; il s'agit en effet de pays à l'éco-  nomie coloniale, dont les intérêts sont nécessairement en contradiction avec ceux des pays avancés,  et qui ont beaucoup de mal à tirer parti de l'aide reçue de façon à assurer un développement éco-  nomique orienté vers le progrès, Telle est la vérité profonde que mettrait en lumière un tel dé-  bat, et cela nous mènerait fort loin ; aussi n'est-il pas superflu de mentionner tout au moins cette  cause fondamentale,
(24 4) D'autre part, je voudrais dire quelques mots pour défendre la proposition qui nous est sou-  mise : il est bien certain que les problèmes économiques ne relèvent pas , par essence, de la  compétence de l'Unesco, dont la mission ne consiste pas à effectuer des études économiques ap-  profondies, Mais on ne saurait soutenir que les réalités économiques mentionnées dans le préam-  bule du projet de résolution ne sont pas directement liées à la compréhension des problèmes considé-  rés et à la détermination des moyens à employer pour les résoudre, Ces problèmes sont d'ordre écono-  mique, il s'agiten particulier du prix des matières premières et ducoût extrêmement élevé des pro-  duits manufacturés - réalité indéniable et qui constitue le fond même de la question. On peut évidem-  iment en supprimer l'allusion qui y est faite dans le préambule ; mais il serait plus utile de sup-  primer cette réalité elle-même, afin d'accroître l'efficacité de la collaboration économique dont  nous parlons, S'il est vrai que cette réalité existe, et qu'elle représente un problème économique  du ressort d'une organisation autre que la nôtre, mais qui influe directement sur les aspects fon-  damentaux du problème et sur les moyens de le résoudre, j'estime que nous n'avons aucune rai-  son de supprimer la mention qui en est faite dans le préambule.
(24.5) Pour de multiples raisons de grande importance, la délégation cubaine apporte donc son  appui au projet de résolution qui nous est soumis, et félicite le Groupe de travail que dirige de  façon si compétente le Chef de la délégation de l'Inde.
25. Le PRESIDENT. -  Je donne la parole au dernier orateur inscrit, S. Exc, M. Kirpal, chef de la déléga-  tion de l'Inde.
26,1 Mr. KIRPAL (India):  Mr: President, I asked for the floor first of all to express our great -appreciation of  the remarks of the Director-General and of the spirit behind those remarks. We all have
851   XXX ) Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  been seeking for unanimity in promoting Unesco's rôle for development in the context of  the United Nations Development Programme, I can assure the leader of the United States  delegation, for whom I have great respect, I can assure him and I beg of him to believe  that there are no prefabricated ideas here. Even the consideranda contain expressions of  opinion which were very carefully examined, thought out by 66 delegations. They are  based upon very careful consideration, there are no prefabricated ideas and no slogans  here,
26.2 And Mr, President, we stand by the statement that it is possible for us to consider  any changes our friends might suggest to anything they think would hurt somebody in Unesco,  And if such precise suggestions are given to us - we are a number of delegations of which  I represent only one - we could certainly discuss making an alteration here and there. In  the course of the debate, for instance, the delegate of Cameroon has expressed the opinion  that even the question of primary product prices is most relevant, and it has been suggest-  ed it could be altered in this way; "Noting with concern the effect upon development of edu-  cation, science and culture resulting from such a policy." I do not think there can be any  objections to such a statement but, in any case, we would do anything to achieve unanimity  if 1t is possible.
26,3 We agree with the suggestion that the vote might be deferred till tomorrow, but 1 do  hope that we can be given precise suggestions in regard to the objections made against this  resolution, against any part of this resolution, Then we would endeavour to meet - it is  not an easy business for so many people to get together - and see whether any changes are  possible,
26.4 If there is an underlying spirit of unanimity, then words are not of much importance,  Words merely express our determination or our spirit of belief or faith, If we are united  in that, surely we can find words to express that, and I would again beg of our colleagues  who have spoken against this resolution to let us know precisely what are the paragraphs  in this resolution to which they object, I could then put their objections to my colleagues -  I am only one of the 56 - and we could consider this matter and come back perhaps tomor-  row to vote, if any agreed draft is possible. And we might still hope for unanimity on this  question.
27.1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie encore une fois S, Exc. M. Kirpal de l'esprit de conciliation dont il a  fait preuve.
27.2 Je prends la liberté de dire que nous réaliserons certainement l'unanimité demain  sur cet important problème de la contribution de l'Unesco à la réalisation des fins et des  objectifs de la Décennie des Nations Unies pour le développement.
27,3 Au cours de la prochaine séance plénière qui aura lieu demain matin, nous termine-  rons l'examen du point 11 de l'ordre du jour, après quoi nous examinerons les trois rap-  ports du Comité juridique qui figuraient à l'ordre du jour de la présente séance. Enfin,  nous passerons aux points 19 et 22 de l'ordre du jour.
27,4 La séance est levée.  The meeting rose at 6. 30  La séance est levée à 18 h, 30  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 18, 30