22 November 1966 at 3,25 p,m,  President: Mr. Redrettin TUNCEL (Turkey)  VINGT-HUITIÈME SEANCE PLÉNIÈRE
22 novembre 1966, à 15 h, 25  Président : M, Bedrettin TUNCET, (Turquie)  VIGÉSIMOCTAVA SESION PLENARIA
22 nonbps 1966 r. n 154, 25M,  Ipencenarens: F-n B./TYHUEJIDL (Typuns)  UNESCO'S CONTRIBUTION TO THIS PROMOTION OF THE AIMS AND OBJECTIVES  OF THE UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT DECADE (continued)  CONTRIBUTION DFE L'UNESCO A LA REALISATION DES FINS ET DES OBJECTIFS  DE LA DECENNIE DES NATIONS UNIES POUR 1.13 DEVELOPPEMENT (suite)  CONTRIBUCION DE LA UNESCO AI, LOGRO DE IAS FINALIDADES Y OBJETIVOS  DEI. DECENIO DE LAS NACIONES UNIDAS PARA EI, DESARROLLO (continuactôn)  BKJIAJ{ OHECKO B JOCTHXEHHE HEJER AECATHIETHS PASBUTHSI  OPT'AHH3AUHH OB'BEIHHEHHBIX HAIHH (npononxelno)
1,1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, je déclare ouverte la vingt-huitième séance plénière.
1,2 Nous reprenons le débat sur le point 11 de l'ordre du jour : Contribution de l'Unesco à  la réalisation des fins et des objectifs de la Décennie des Nations Unies pour le développe-  ment, Je dois vous annoncer que, depuis hier, deux nouveaux textes ont été déposés, en  rapport avec ce point de l'ordre du jour : d'une part, les auteurs du projet de résolution
14 C/DR,199 ont présenté un addendum à leur texte ; d'autre part, la délégation du Brésil  a présenté un nouveau projet de résolution qui porte la cote 14 C/DR, 204, Ces deux pro-  jets viennent seulement d'être déposés et sont actuellement en cours de traduction et de re-  production, Ils ‘seront distribués dès que possible, peut-être au cours de la présente séance,  Toutefois, je crains que, dans ces circonstances, il ne nous soit plus possible d'arriver cet  après-midi & des décisions sur ce point de l'ordre du jour, comme je l'avais annoncé hier.
1,3 Je vous propose donc, Mesdames, Messieurs, la procédure suivante : nous allons eu-  tendre les orateurs qui sont inscrits ; ensuite, je donnerai de nouveau la parole aux auteurs  des différents projets, pour leur permettre de répondre aux questions qui leur ont été  posées ou aux remarques qui ont été faites au sujet de leurs textes, Après quoi, si cela  ‘183   XXVIII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  paraît réalisable à la lumière du débat, je demanderai aux auteurs des différents projets  de se consulter afin d'arriver, si possible, A un toxte unique sur lequel la Conférence puisse  se prononcer, à une séance ultérieure, par exemple, celle de demain,
1,4 Fn attendant, je vais donner lecture de la liste des orateurs déjà Inscrits : Sir Ronald  Walker (Ausralie), M, Lopes (République du Congo), M, Tewfik (République arabe unic),  Lord Ritchie Calder (Royaume-Uni), M, Bongo (République démocratique du Congo),  M, §,N, Shu (Cameroun), M, Okhotine (Union des républiques socialistes soviétiques) et  M. Waldomar Cortés (Chi), J'aimerais pouvoir clore In liste des orateurs, Y a-t-il  d'autres délégations qui désirent s'inscrire ?
1,5 J'ajoute deux délégations à la liste dont je viens de donner lecture : celles dela France  et d'El Salvador,
1,6 Je donno maintenant la parole au premier orateur Inscrit pour cet après-midi: S. Exc,  Sir Ronald Walker, chef de la délégation d'Australie,
2.1 Sir Ronald WALKER (Australia):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, I would like to begin by congratulating the Director  General on the excellent report, document 14 C/ 10, which he submitted on behalf of the Or-  ganization to the United Nations at the time of mid-point review of the Development Decade,  This report contains a great deal of extremely interesting material and we have listened  with very great interest yesterday to the additional points whiéh The Director-General  brought to our attention, It is true that the mid-point review of the Development Decade  in 1965 was the occasion of many expressions of disappointment. To quote the Economic  and Social Council resolution adopted at that time "progress in the achievement of the  goals and objectives set for the Development Decade has been disappointingly slow". But  Mr. President, we feel that pessimism is certainly not warranted and that there isabundant  ground for hope and faith in the programmes that are now being undertaken,
2,2 We should bear in mind that our basic objective in development 18 to produce in the  less-developed countries, as quickly as possible, an industrial and social metamorphosis  which had required 150ycars to produce in Western Europe. The repetition of this chango  in the developing world of today will take much less time. Why? Because Western Europe  had no example before it and no outside assistance. ‘The Third World today can learn from  the experience of the countries already industrialized and it can and does look to them for  help as it embarks upon a similar adventure,
2.3 But to expect the firat fow years of the Development Decade to produce an immediate  substantial change in the trends of national income statistics is not very realistic. How  many years does it take to build a dam or a railroad ard how many more years before such  projects lead to an increase in production? How many years does it take to train a skilled  tradesman or a teacher? The statistics quoted by the Director-General ‘following the  Secretary-General of the United Nations in the so-called mid-point review of the Develop-  ment Decade, show, it is true, that the average growth rate in national income in the de-  veloping countries was lower in the year1063 than in the period 1956-1960, This was a  disappointing trend, but it is putting too much on the statistics to use them as a measuring  rod for the progress being made in the Development Decade. This comparison between  the trend in 1955-1960 and 1963 should not be interpreted as evidence that the efforts of the  United Nations family since the initiation of the Development Decade have been puny or in-  effective. The Development Decade - go far as United Nations action was concerned - did  not start in 1060 or in 1961; it started in mid-1862. It was in December 1061 that the  General Assembly decided to designate the sixties as a development decade, The Socretary-  General then worked on his proposals for action by the United Nations family,and these wore  adopted by the Economic and Social Council in mid-1962, Decline in the rate of growth over  the year ending 1963 was part of the situation that made the Development Decade proposals  necessary. It was a measure of their inadequacy.
2,4 It may well be some years before the results of the United Nations Development Pro-  grammes are reflected clearly In a more satisfactory rate of growth in the statistics of  national income. Nevertheless, those first few years of the Development Decade have seen  some unprecedented gains which it would be folly to ignore, gains which are laying a firm  foundation for the future. And I think it 19 worth recalling some of these in the course  of this debate,
2.6 The first ig tho impact which the Development Decade ~ the idea of the Development  Decade and all the plans associated with it - is making on the world conscience. ‘l'oduy,  throughout the world people believe, for the firat time in history, that the world need no  longer continue to be divided into wealthy industrialized nations on the one hand and poverty-  stricken, illiterate peoples on the other, who lack the knowledge or the means to produce a  decent standard of living for themselves, This is a revolution in thought and in attitude.  For the firat time there is a recognition that world-wide development is possible, There  is for the first time in history a willingness on the part of those who have alrcady undergone  the ordenl of industrialization and reaped its benefits, to help those who still have to accom-  plish a similar change in their way of life,
2.6 The second great gain to have been made, I believe, is that we now have a much better  underetanding of the nature of the problem, and a much greater degree of agreement on the  things that must be done, There still ave problems to be understood, as well as problems  in getting things done, but considerable progress in the underatanding of the problems and  in agreeing on what necds to be done has been made. Let me mention just a few examples -  I shall not give an exhaustive list, ;
2.7 First, 1 would mention the possibilities of development planning and government action,  to which the Director-General referred in his interesting speech yesterday.
2,8 Secondly, 1 would refer to the urgency of industrialization for the developing countries,  This 18 becoming a commonplace, but it was not a commonplace twentyyearsago, Today it  is recognized that industrialization throughout the world is necessary, not only in order to  utilize the natural resources possessed by the developing countries - which in the past have  been largely neglected ~ to supply their needs for manufactured goods, but algo in order to  increase their agricultural production, For we are learning more and more that improve-  ment of agricultural production and food production so desperately needed in the developing  countries is, itself, partly a matter of the input of industrial equipment, fertilizers, and  so on, So that industrialization, which at one stage was sometimes put before us as an  alternative to concentration on primary production or rural activities, 18 today universally  regarded as an essential part of the process of development, not merely in terms of manu-  facturing industries, but as aid also to the development of agriculture.
2,9 The third point on which I think we have reached a much better understanding is the  need and the possibility of controlling the growth of population - not only because of the  food problem, not only because the expansion of production in developing countries in the  last décade or so has been largely drained away in providing food for the increasing popu-  lation, but also because a rapidly developing population entails very heavy requirements  for capital in order to provide the needs of everyday living - housing, schools, hospitals  and other services, And the capital that is absorbed into these projects as a result of ra-  pidly expanding population is not available for the productive investments that are absolute-  ly required if the developing countries are to increase the levels of their national income  and the standards of living of their people. The understanding of this problem is one of  the things that we have gained in quite recent years,
2.10 Next, I would mention the recognition of the need for special arrangements to regu-  late trade between developing and developed countries. The principles of merely freeing  the channels of trade do not offer the sort of arrangements that are necessary to promote  the trade and the development of the less developed countries, Special measures are  necessary, And I feel I can say this as Australia has taken the lead in one of those mea-  surcs, namely the provision of special preferences for the benefit of the developing countries,
185   XXVIII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
2,11 Next, 1 would mention, again very briefly, our recognition of the potential contribu-  tion of solence and technology - man's immaterial capital, one might say, his capital of  knowledge, And we are beginning to come to grips with the problems that ave involved in  the application of science and toohnology, which is a much more complicated issue than  perhaps had been realized even ton years ago,
2.12 And finally, of course, on all these matters nowadays we are convinced of the all-  pervading rôle of education, not just in general, but at every point, in fact in relation to  everyone of these particular problems that are go closely related to the process of develop-  ment, So I think it can be said that in this Dovolopment Decade we have already made  gains in our knowledge and understanding of the problems involved.
2.13 And, Mr, President, we have made gains in the programmes and the work of the  United Nations and Specialized Agencies which have received an enormous impetus, I  shall not quote statistics but they are there for anyone who will take the trouble to consult  the figures of the growth of the budgets of the Specialized Agencies, the growth of the  Special Fund and the growth in the amounts being dispersed through various financial insti-  tutions.
2.14 In this connexion I should also mention the establishment of regional development  banks and the three great movements of the last two or three years, firat UNCSAT, the Uni-  ted Nations Conference on Science and Technology for the developing countries, secondly,  the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, and thirdly, the establishment  of the United Nations Organization for Industrial Development. Who can deny or close his  cyes to the fact that thease are important steps forward which are basically changing the  structure of the world and laying a foundation for the development that lies ahead.
2,15 And, as for Unesco, Mr. President, when did the Development Decade begin? It  began at the end of 1962 which was the first opportunity after the adoption of the Decade by  the United Nations open to the General Conference of Unesco to determine future policies  in this respect, And in financial terms the resources available to Unesco since then have  more than doubled, Would this have occurred without the Development Decade? But the  impact of this expansion on economic development - the impact of Unesco! s expansion and  its work, and the work that is being done in our Member States in association with Unesco -  will be felt gradually and much of it will not be felt for some years.
2,16 In the Director-General's report to which I referred, he points out that action taken  within Member States during the Development Decade to increase school enrolment will not  fully affect the average education of their labour force until the 1980's and that the increase  in school enrolment which took place in the fifties is only now beginning to affect the labour  force and that its maximum impact will be felt in the seventies. There is no doubt that  this progress that is being made - predominantly through the efforts of the Member States  in developing countries to provide additional education - is laying a foundation that will  produce results, not so much today-or tomorrow but a few years hence. Their working  populations will then be educated wôrking populations, with their minds more open than  they can be today to the conditions, the possibilities and the instruments that are provided  by the modern world, This time.factor is also important in the implantation of science  and technology. It takes several years to convert a secondary school graduate into a sci-  entist, The institutions for research and application that are being established now during  the Development Decade will only begin to make their full impact on production during the  next decade, ’  D
2.17 Now I am not pointing this out, Mr,President, with complacency, Il am not suggesting  that we should not be doing more, but I am suggesting that we raust realize that what is  being done today, and what will be done over the next few ycara is promising, in a very  positive way, important and encouraging results in the not distant future.
2.18 The Director-General in his statement yesterday shared with us his thoughts on the  Development Decade and Unesco! s part in it, And in this debate we have to ask ourselves
786   Sesiones plenarias / laexapure 1acevanua XXVIII  what we, the representatives of Member States, wish to say on this occasion, We already  have several draft resolutions before us, and we have been informed that another draft re-  solution will be distributed, no doubt this afternoon, There is also an amendment to one  of the draft resolutions before us. It would therefore be premature to comment in any de-  tail upon these particular resolutions. But I think I should say, Mr. President, that as  concerns draft rosolution 113, we do not think that the important thing for the General Con-  ference to do at this stage Is to offer advice or recommendations about the basic principles  of the United Nations Development Programme. In general, we feel this debate should ad-  dreasitself primarily to the things that Unesco is required to do. In draft resolution 199  we do find certain proposals os to what Unesco should be doing that will undoubtedly find  general commendation; but we also find quite a large number of statements, consideranda,  and so on, about the general problem of development - what fs needed in the field of trade  and in other spheres - which, frankly, Mr. President, my delegation feels are not truly  appropriate, and not the best contribution that Unesco can make at this time to the consider-  ation of the development problem, But we shall reserve our final position until we have  seen the other resolutions and any further proposals that might be forthcoming,
2.19 I shall confine myself, in concluding, to three things that I feel that I should say on  behalf of the Australian delegation, In thefirstplace, we repeat our conviction that Unesco's  contribution to development, particularly through assistance to Member States in education  and the implantation of science and technology, is vitally important. We would not have  thought twenty years ago that Unesco would need to have an economic section. True, it  might have had relations with economists and social scientists,but today we find that Unesco  is considering its contribution to development has to evaluate and consider, in a profes-  sional manner, the way in which the contribution of education, science and technology can  be made to development and the way in which Unesco! s efforts can contribute.
2,20 We agree that the priorities already determined by the General Conference must con-  tinue for a considerable time if Unesco’ s contribution to development is to be effective. 1  have already stressed the time factor, but as our Director-General has told us, the same  consideration applies to the priorities that we have adopted, We must avoid the tempta-  tion of overloading future programmes with new projects that might divert resources and  energy away from existing activities that have been chosen precisely because of their prio-  rity in relation to development. We have to concentrate in Unesco on helping the develop-  ing countries to get over this very difficult stage upon which they are at present engaged.
2.21 Then thirdly, Mr, President, the Director-General commented on the problems of  co-ordination in the United Nations fainily. This, too, is a matter on which I would like  to say a word. When there is so much to be done, when finances although increasing are
80 inadequate, it remains very important indeed that the organizations of the United Nations  family should avoid duplication and should avoid confusion, And one knows that even in de-  veloping countries there is sometirnes confusion as to who is doing what in the United Na-  tions, and to which particular international agency they would be best advised to look as  they seek assistance in a particular connexion. Undoubtedly there have been great im-  provemente in the degree of co-ordination and co-operation among the agencies even in  the last few years. And Unesco's record within this framework is a comparatively good  one. But anyone who is closely in touch with the work of the agencies in the field, or at  Headquarters, will know that there still is room for improvement. Some of thedifficulties  even arise, in part, from our Constitution. The Constitutions of the several Specialized  Agencies are imperfect if one thinks of them as laying down the fields of specific activity  to be undertaken by differentagencies. The very comprehensiveness of Unesco' s purposes  and interests sometimes can lead to overlapping and to confusion, sometimes indeed to  friction,
2,22 It is a rather absurd situation if we have the Conferences, the Governing Bodies, of  different agencies adopting resolutions to say that such and such an agency is responsible  for a cortain matter, and to have another agenay in its Governing Body taking a resolution  to say that that agency is responsible for the same matter, We have been rather concerned
787   XXVIIT Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  about the difficulties that have been encountered in the extremely important subject of agri-  cultural education, Wo recognize ‘that great efforts have been made by the Director-  General to reach agreernent with the other organizations concorned regarding the basis of  co-operation in this field. And we would like to say, on behalf of the Australian delegation,  that this effort and understanding and agreement must bo pressed on with great determina-  tion. Aa the Director-Gieneral said the other day, this 18 in the last resort a problem for  governments, for the governments that are represented hore, I refer not only to the pro-  blom of agricultural education, but to the general problem of co-ordination, This is un-  doubtedly true, but it is not sufficient merely to say that it is not the responsibility alone  of the Secrotarlats, it is also the responsibility of governments, And 1 certainly would  say on behalf of the Australian delegation that we representatives of governments and the  governments that we represent must give increasingly close attention to this problem and  ensure that our delegations to different international conferences at least are following a  consistent policy. It is natural that sometimes there should be overlopping and conflicts  of interost between Specialized Agencies, but it is surely intolerable if no way can be found  for ironing out the difficulties that arise; and it is very much In the interests of govern-  ments to confer together and to ensure that aolutions are found,
2,23 Mr. President, I would merely conclude then by saying that we continue to believe  that in this particular field of the Development Decade and the contribution to education  and the implantation of science and technology, Unesco at the present time finds perhaps  its most absorbing and certainly its most practical task,
3,1 Ie PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie Sir Ronald Walker de son intéressante analyse du thème qui fait l'objet de  notre discussion,
3,2 Je donne la parole à 5, FExc, M, Lopes, chef de la délégation de la République du Congo,
4,1 M, LOPES (République du Congo). -  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames, Messieurs les dé-  légués, la délégation de la République du Congo voudrait d'abord féliciter le Directeur géné-  ral pour le remarquable travail d'analyse et de synthèse présenté dans le document 14 C/10.
4,2 Notre pays est directement intéressé au problème de la contribution de l'Unesco à la  réalisation des fins et des objectifs de la Décennte des Nations Unies pour le développement,  et c'est lu raison pour laquelle nous nous sommes associés au projet de résolution
14 C/DR.199, déposé par 51 autres pays, dont les éminents délégués de l'Inde et de Mada-  gascar se sont faits {ef les brillants porte-parole,
4,3 J.es pays sous-développés, comme le nôtre, se trouvent placés devant des problèmes  d'éducation et d'action culturelle auxquels nos possibilités budgétaires ne nous permettent  pas de faire face, malgré tous nos efforts, Dien que notre gouvernement considère 1'édu-  cation nationale comme un secteur prioritaire et lui consacre près de 30% de son budget de  fonctionnement, nous devons, à chaque rentrée scolaire, affronter des problèmes qui nous  inapirent de graves préoccupations, Ft pour cause : notre budget, dont le montant total est  l'équivalent de 7,200,000 dollars environ, ne dépasse pas celui d'une municipalité de pays  développé.
4,4 Ausat accordons-nous la plus vive attention à l'aide que nous pouvons recevoir des or-  ganismes internationaux, parce qu'elle n'est jamais assortie de conditions politiques - ce  qui n'est pas son moindre mérite,
4.5 Nous savons qu'il est délicat pour nous de dire aux pays développés qu'ils ont un excé-  dent d'argent qui serait le bienvenu pour nous aider à résoudre nos problèmes. Mais nous  croyons aussi que, plus cette aide sera suivie do résultats, plus elle aidera les pays déve-  loppés à atteindre les buts qu'ils se proposent dans des enceintes telles que celle de l'Unesco,
788   Sestones plenarias /lAenapuue sacévanua XXXVI  Les états membres désirent, en effet, éliminer l'analphabétiame, l'ignorance et les préju-  gés, Comment y réussiront-ils, s#'ila ne combattent pas ces fléaux là où ils existent, c'est-  A-dire dans les paya sous-équipés ?
4,6 Tant que l'aide que nous recevons ne dépassera pas un certain seufl, les sommes ver-  sées risqueront d'être englouties pendant des années sans aboutir au résultat escompté,  Une aide insuffisante peut être comparée à un homme physiquement déficient qui voudrait,  avec la seule force de ses bras, sauver un autre homme, suspendu dans le vide, Au bout  d'un moment, l'homme suspendu dans le vide entrafne dans sa chute le secouriste trop  faible,
4,7 Nous n'avons pas de leçon à donner à qui que ce soit, Mais, si chacun croit réelle-  ment à la coopération Internationale ct s'il est vrai - comme l'a dit remarquablement le  Directeur général - que “le développement est un des noms de la paix", 11 faut que l'Unesco  convainque les gouvernements des états riches qu'ils dofvent choisir entre les armements  inconsidérés ot la guerre contre la misère,
4,8 Quoi qu'il en soit, il est de plus en plus évident que les pays sous-développés ont cons-  cience de leur sous-développement ct de la nécessité de s'en libérer, Ils le feront seuls,  ou avee le concours de la communauté internationale. S'ils sont aidés dans leur entreprise  par la grande farnille internationale, {ls se sentiront alors membres à part entière d'une  communauté qu'ils auront à coeur de défendre ct de faire prospérer, S'ils doivent, au con-  traire, se libérer seuls, ils relèveront certes le défi, à force de peine et d'austérité, mais  dans la solitude et avec le sentiment d'appartenir à un groupe de l'humanité dont l'histoire  se sera faite à l'écart du reste dela planète, voire contre,
4,9 Monsieur le Président, 11 n'y a aucune amertume, aucun chantage dans mes propos,  Mon seul soucf est de parler le langage de la vérité, en tenant compte de la logique qui se  dégrage de l'histoire de l'humanité.
4,10 lorsque les pays riches aident les pays pauvres, ce ne doit pas être unc aumône don-  née à une cigale qui aurait chanté tout l'été des siècles ct se rendrait compte brusquement  qu'il est temps de sortir de 1'oisiveté, Ce sont les hasards ou les nécessités de l'histoire  qui ont fait que, malgré nos efforts et nos souffrances, nous ne sommes pas admis au ban-  quet de l'intelligence de ce siècle, Pourtant, vous le savez, Mesdames, Messicurs, nous  étions là pour bâtir les pyramides d'Egypte, les temples de Nuble, ceux des Aztèques et  des Incas, Nous étions là pour bâtir le Nouveau Monde, Nous avons participé à l'effort de  développement de l'Europe au XIXe et au XXe siècle, Nous ne sommes pas des nouveaux  venus sur la scène internationale.
4,11 Aujourd'hui, nous voudrions encore apporter notre concours au développement de la  connaissance hunaine et contribuer à la compréhension entre les mondes, Nous voudrions  que chacun des hommes de nos pays puisse apprécier à sa juste valeur l'effort que les  hommes de tous les pays s'imposent, depuis l'aube de l'histoire universelle, pour lutter  contre la nature et la mort, Nous voudrions que les hommes de chez nous aiment les ri-  chesses du patrimoine humain, les accroissent et les protègent contre toute menace de dé-  flagration planétaire.
4,12 Pour cela, 11 leur faut un tremplin, Ce tremplin, nous pensons que la coopération  internationale peut le fournir, 11 reste aux pays économiquement évolués à apprécier s'ils  ne peuvent accroftre le nombre des ressorts du tremplin pour nous permettre de faire le  saut hors de l'ignorance,
4,13 Ja République du Congo, qui a déjà largement bénéficié de l'aide du Fonds spécial,  est persuadée que ce ne sont pas là des rêves insensés, Chaque année, nous notons une  amélioration dans l'efficacité de l'aide qui nous est octroyée, Nous sommes persuadés  que cette aide aura des résultats encore plus fructueux, dans la mesure où elle continuera  à préciser sa stratégle, On pourrait, à notre sens, dégager des priorités en fonction des
789   XXVIII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  particularités du sous-développement et de la sous-éducation, Pour certains pays, en ef-  fet, I'mrgence concerne l'alphabétisation, alors que, pour d'autres, il s'agit de l'enseigne-  ment du premier ou du second degré, qui doit être développé, Une politique de la recherche,  d'autre part, ne peut être rentable, en Afrique par exemple, que dans un cadre réglonal  plutôt que dans un cadre national,
4,14 Le projet de résolution que nous soumettons avec fl autres pays "invite le Directeur  général à ... procéder à une évaluation régulière des systèmes d'éducation et des mesures  prises pour Intégrer l'éducation au développement économique et social”, Cela suppose  qu'un travail de collaboration et de coordination des efforts soit entrepris entre les organi-  gations soeurs, telles que le Fonds spéclal des Nations Unies, l'Unesco, la FAO et le Pro-  gramme alimentaire mondial, Tes projets de ruralisation de l'enseignement, qui visent à  lutter contre l'exode rural, ne peuvent, en cffet, aboutir à des succès que si ces organisa-  tions travaillent la main dans la main, It nous y scrons conduits chaque jour davantage,  d'autant plus que les pays sous-développés accordent une importance sans cesse crotizsante  A l'éducation technique, qui demande une aide que l'Unesco, à elle seule, ne peut fournir,
4,15 Lin ce qui concerne la pratique et la procédure qui séparent la requête de l'application  du projet, nous ferons nôtres les sages remarques du Directeur général, Nous lui renou-  velons notre confiance pour étudier, avec les organismes compétents, les moyens de mnettre  en oeuvre des méthodes d'action encore plus vapides et plus efficaces,
4,16 Avant d'en terminer, Monsieur le Président, je tiens à dire que la délégation de la  République du Congo appuie le projet de résolution 14 C/DR,113 Rev, présenté par l'Algérie  et six autres Ftats membres, et qu'elle considère ce projet comme complémentaire de celui  qui a été présenté par l'Inde et 51 autres Etats,
4,17 Nous avons essayé, Monsieur le Président, de tenir à cette tribune le langage de la  sagesse, Mails celle-ci est traditionnellement le lot des anciens ou, tout au moins, de ceux  qui ont atteint la maturité, Pour nous, peuples neufs, 11 est probable que, malgré nos ef-  forts, les éclats passionnés ct maladroits de la jeunesse se mêlent aux accents les plus  calmes, Nous vous prions de nous en excuser, Ce que nous vous demandons, c'est d'être  assurés que notre intervention, quand bien même clle sc proposait d'être sans ambages, ne  cherchait nullement à troubler la sérénité des débats de cette assemblée, Nous serions,  pour notre part, fort heureux si seulement elle pouvait permettre de créer l'unanimité  autour des propositions concrètes formulées ici, hier, par le Directeur général, et persua-  der les gouvernements des pays les plus riches qu'on peut encore progresser dans la vole  de la coopération internationale, pour contribuer à réaliser effectivement les fins et les ob-  jectifs de la Décennie des Nations Unies pour le développement.
5,1 Le PRESIDENT. -  Je tiens à remercier chaleureusement S, Exc, M. Lopes de la franchise remarquable  de son exposé,
5,2 La parole est maintenant au Dir Salah-el-Din Tewfik, délégué permanent de la Répu-  blique arabe unie auprès de l'Unesco,
6.1 Mr, TEWEIK (United Arab Republic):  Mr. President, distinguished delegates, as noted on the cover of document 14 C/10  the United Nations Economic and Social Council at its thirty-ninth session requested the  Secretary-General and the Executive Heads of the Specialized Agencies and the Internation-  al Atomic Fnergy Agency to do three things: first, to review their work programmes, se-  condly to explore the possibility of identifying areas in which a maximum contribution could  be made to the goals of the United Nations Decade; to report thereon to the forty-first ses-  sion of the Council,
6.2 ‘The forty-firat session of the Council was held, and on 4 August 1966 it adopted Reso-  lution 1152, in the operative part of which, the Secretary-General was again requested to
790   Sesiones plenartas /llaenaprtie Jacevanus XXVIII  consider, in consultation with all the organizations concerned in the United Nations family  and, in particular, with the assistance of the Committee for Development Planning:  (a) what preparations are required in order to further and to facilitate planning for concerted  international action for the period after the Development Decade, having regard to the  experiences gained during this Decade; and (b) how such planning might best reflect and  be co-ordinated with the national development programmes of the developing countries,  The Council then invites the Secretary-Gencral to report once again to the forty-third ses-  sion, and finally it invites the organizations concerned in the United Nations family - and  this is where our own Organization comes in - to keep under critical scrutiny their pro-  grammes, practices and procedures, including inter-agency arrangements, in the light of  the long-term perspective outlined in the present resolution, and decides to devote atten-  tion, as appropriate, to this question,
6.3 This is where we have our rôle to play, where we see quite clearly the necessity to  review progress in the fields of competence of Unesco, in this particular case, and to ap-  praise the results achieved and the actual character of the needs of the developing States.  Against those needs a steady increase in financial resources was, no doubt achieved, but  these resources were still insufficient to meet the pressing needs of the recipient States,  Granted that there are built-in limitations on the rate of development or the process of ac-  cepting aid, and foremost among these limitations is the lack of human competence to make  full use of the different types of aid that can be provided, This is a valid argument. But  at the same time it should constitute in itself an urge to enhance and review the forms of  assistance in order to introduce the so-called technical know-how to the developing countries;  and that technical know-how will have to come from the affluent or more developed countries.
6.4 Counterpart requirements, onthe other hand, should not stand inflexibly to hinder pro-  greas so long as the ardent zeal of the recipients testifies to the effectiveness of ald  programmes. This is the real point. The question is not how much a State can contri-  bute as counterpart funds, but how much a State can do with both types of funds, interna-  tional and its own,
6.5 Indeed, difficulties are encountered in the attempt to promote the aims and objectives  of the United Nations Development Decade. It has been said that these difficulties are  centred around or emanate from insufficient resources, which 18 very true; the need for  planning of programmes and identifying priorities, which is again valid; and co-ordination  between the agencies of the United Nations family. And you have seen that the Economic  and Social Council is asking for such co-ordination, All this is to be done in the light of  what the recipient States can afford and can continue to make use of, and with a view to  smoother and more effective operation.
6,6 What is the aim of the present discussion? To strengthen Unesco's action in the im-  plementation of its programmes; to meet the needs of Member States; to voice what the  Organization finds important in the fields of its competence - education, science and cul-  ture - so that a sound plan ‘of co-ordination between members of the United Nations family  may be reached. This is the aim of our present discussion.
6.7 On the other hand, Mr. President, and distinguished delegates, the gapis increasingly  widening between the affluent and the developing countries, and unless all efforts, inter-  national and bilateral, are concentrated on closing this gapina spirit of human co-operation  things will not be what the human being, as a human being, has aright to expect them to be.
6,8 Needless to say, Europe during its industrial development had all the resources of its  colonies. The very heavy investment in North America led to the development of North  America. Europe had the time, all the time needed to make what Europe is today. And  Furope did not have competition from other parts of the world when European efforts were  devoted to its own development. This is the difference between Europe some time agoand  the developing countries of today.
791   XXVIH Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
6,0 Existing efforts, commendable as they are, are still not enough to cradicateilliteracy,  to apply pctentific knowledge to development or combat poverty, Human development and  peace must be visualized in terms of a harmonious development of litoracy, education sei-  ence and technology, in terms of the intricate social and human aspecta related to indus-  trial and economic deveiopment, and whatever measures may be required to bring about  economic progross in the States concerned,
6.10 This is why, Mr, President, distinguished delegates, draftresolution 14 C/DR, 199  was drafted in this form, in order to draw attention to real needs in the most important  fields within the competence of Unesco, na is stated in the operative part,
6.11 Now it seems to me quite possible and even desirable to combine the draft resolutions  in documents 14 C/DR.199 and 14 C/DR,113 Rev. They would go hand in hand, as no doubt  would other draft resolutions which are not being distributed for the time being. Itis sovery  important to tell the United Nations family, to tell the Administrative Committee on Co-  ordination, to tell the Fconomic and Social Council of the exact needs of Unesco, the exact  needs of Member States of Unesco, within the ficld of competence of Unesco, And no one  is more competent to say these things to the other members of the United Nations family  than Uncaco itself.
1. Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie infiniment le Dr Tewfik et j'invite Lord Ritchie-Calder, A prendre lan  parole au nom de 1a délégation du Royaume-Uni.
8.1 I.ord RITCHIE-CALDER (United Kingdom):  Mr. President, a wise man once said: "The Bible tells us that the walls of Jericho  fell to the sounds of shouts and trumpets, There 18 no record of walls ever being built  that way".
8.2 Distinguished delegates, the Preamble to the Constitution of Unesco enjoins us to build  the defences of peace in the minds of men. We shall not build them merely by shouting  about peace nor by trumpeting accusations. Unesco's job is to make bricks, and lay  bricks, not to throw bricks. And brick by brick it has to build the defences of peace,
8,3 That same wise man said; "Of course miracles happen but it takes hard work by hu-  man beings to make miracles happen",
8.4 We here are human beings and our job is to work miracles. We have to abolish war  in a world where the nations, frightened and suspicious of each other, spend £42, 000, 000, 000  a year on what they call the defence of peace. But what about the substance of the peace  they are supposed to be defending? What about their poor people everywhere and the lives  they are condemned to lead in hunger, ignorance and the degradations of poverty, Some  have had war around them ever since they were born, but what does "peace" mean to those  who are not involved in war? What does "freedom mean? All right, it racans the end  of colonialism, It means that peoples, as nations, have won their independence, or, if  they have not won their independence they should have. And will. Since the United Nations  was founded, 65 new nations have joined - new nations which were subje-t peoples twenty  years ago. Britain has contributed its large quota. Never in the history of mankind has  any empire so deliberately - though sometimes painfully - dismembered {itself and in so  short a time,
8.5 Mr. President, I am, and always have been an anti-cotontalist, but neither I nor my  fellow delegates of the United Kingdom appear before you as the pall-bearers of the British  Empire. Rather we are proud to be here with the heirs of the British Empire and,interms  of today's debate, to show our concern for their well-being and for the well-being of all  the developing nations.
8.6 But, distinguished delegates, I ask your indulgence, fasten your seat belts, for I am  about to utter a heresy. Freedorn begins with breakfast.
8,7 The great day comes, henceforth to bo celebrated as independence day, The imperjal  flag is hauled down and the national flag is run up to the masthead, ‘The new national an-  them 18 played; the plumed hat of the outgoing governor is doffed and the new Head of State  salutes his people, The fireworks are let off, ‘The people sing and dance, They are free,
8,8 But, fellow delegates, a free people wakes up next morning. They Are no richer, no  better fed, and no better educated by the fact of freedom. Their stoop-labour is just as  backaching, In terms of their expectations, freedom is n post-dated cheque to be drawn  on the future,
8.0 Freedom begins with breakfast, Democracy is a word that rumbles meaninglessiy in  empty bellies, Flags are not enough, National anthems are an overture and gelf-determi-  nation is a prologue.
8.10 Mr. President, that is what we are discussing today, how to give substance to peace  and meaning to freedom, how to bring about the development which can give people not only  their natiunal independence but human dignity.
8.11 The world had changed when Unesco was born twenty years ago - not only by the dis-  figurement of the most horrific war in human history but by the release of entirely new  forces - the atomic age, the age of automation, and the space age - each of them as epochal  as the Iron Age, the Renaissance or the Industrial Revolution, but all happening simulta-  neously, Communications - both in the sense of telecommunications and of transportation,  No place in the world was more than a few hours away by jet-propulsion; minutes away by  missile; split seconds away by radio. The world had been reduced to a neighbourhood;  and we cannot ignore our neighbours, or, if we try to ignore them they won't let us,
8.12 Two great revolutions were already interweaving - the scientific and technological  revolution and the revolution of rising expectations, ‘The second, I maintain, was the pro-  duct of the first because communications had produced a world-wide awareness. Freedom  became epidemic because people everywhere knew - and distance could not hide it - that  others were achieving their aspirations to independence and they had the right to demand it  for themselves. Bul beyond aspirations came expectations, Mr, President, in the past  sixteen ycars, I have travelled over one and three-quarter million miles to see how science  and technology could increase the well-being of the peoples in developing countries. Every-  where, but everywhere - In the Arctic, in the deserts, in the jungle, in the High Andes and  in the Himalayas - 1 found an awareness of change but also an awareness that the ingenuity  of man could find the answer to their material needs, to their hunger, to their sickness, and  to their ignorance. Yes, Mr, President, to their ignorance. As Unesco's experience  has shown and as our programme discussions have shown the thirst for knowledge is almost  as great today as the hunger for food, FEverywhere, ! repeat, there is this awareness,  Unescohas itself inercased that awareness, The activities of the highly advanced countries,  boasting if you like of their achievements, have increased that awareness, All the demon-  strations of technical assistance have confirmed that awareness. We told them , distinguished  delegates. And we promised them.
8.13 Today we are taking stock of the fulfilment, or lack of fulfilment, of those promises,  We are more than half way through what the United Nations designated as the Development  Decade. And let me remind you that the Development Decade was fnvoked to redeem the  failures of the 1950's, the decade in which all the bilateral and multilateral aid added - in  ten years, remember - only $1 per capita to the income of the people in the 100 countries  and territories which United Nations classes as "developing".
8.14 I once told my students in the University of Edinburgh, that all the investment in the  Indian textile industry had not added one inch to the average Indian's shirt, and an irrev-  erent student - 1 may say all my students are irreverent - asked why the average Indian  wanted an extra inch added to his shirt. I meant, of course, that while tens of millions  more shirts were produced there were tens of millions more Indians needing shirts.
793   XXVIII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
8,15 And that, of course, was one of the reasons for discraopancies in the 60! g and still is;  the population explosion. That explosion was itgelf produced by science, Medical science,  with the discovery of sulpha drugs, antibiotics and Insccticides gave us death-control, en-  abled us to restrain the old killers, the infectious, the contagious, the peatilontinl, the in-  acct-borne diseases. Mr. President, the increase in population mainly in the developing  countries is not the result of an orgy of procreation, Couples are not begetting more chil-  dren than they used to, More couples arc having children. More mothers are being saved  from death in childbirth to have more children, More children are surviving the disease  hazards of infancy and childhood to marry and to multiply, More adults are eseaping pre-  mature death and the span of life has increased, The result is that there are more mouths  to be fed, more people to be clothed, housed and educated. More people needing the neces-  sities of life. As the recent report of the Food and Agriculture Organization has shown,  the global food supply did not increase last year but the world population increased by al-  most 70,000,000 - cight thousand more mouths every hour, nearly 200,000 every day,  On those trends, the present world population of 3,400 million will double by 1996, Think  of it, distinguished delegates; it has taken homo sapiens, thinking man, a million years -  since his ancestral hominids < to reach the present figure. It will take homo "insapiens”,  unthinking man, only 30 ycars to double it, We are confronted, distinguished delegates,  by a race between production and reproduction and at the moment we are losing it, In  terms of development, of the product to be divided per capita, we are running up a down-  escalator,
8,16 But there were other factors in the 1950' 3 as there are in the 1960's, One was the  decline in world prices, in the prices of the products of the developing countries, by which  they might have carned currency for their own industrial equipment, I mention it and in  our debates we are entitled to take it into account, but, Mr. President, in terms of rego-  lutions of the United Nations Kducational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, I do not think  we are the competent body to legislate on thé concerns of other sections of the United Nations  and this, the question of trade, is a matter for UNCTAD, In passing, Mr. President,  may I also say that it is no part of our job to instruct the United Nations Development Pro-  gramme as to what it must do, I am heavily involved in the sensitive relationships of the  United Nations family and we ought to avoid discord, Nothing is more likely and more  calculated to produce discord than for one of the Specialized Agencies to try to dictatetothe  purse-holders in the United Nations Development Programme. By all means let us arm  the Director-General with powerful arguments and with a convincing programme which will  speak for itself. To do more would be, to put it mildly, tactless.
8.17 Mr, President, the deficiencies of the 1950's have not been redeemed thus far by the  United Nations Development Decade, as 80 many distinguished delegates have pointed out.  We have learned the hard way. Too little and too late. But also we have learned a great  deal from our mistakes and the word "we' includes the United Nations and its Specialized  Agencies, the donor countries and the developing countries. We have learned the mistakes  of competitive aid, In the field I have seen the waste and positive damage of competitive  programmes of bilateral aid, where nations outbid each other. 1 have also, I regret to  say, seen the confusion produced by competition between the Specialized Agencies of the  United Nations. And, let us be clear, distinguished delegates, it is one of the commend-  able objects of the United Nations Development Programme to regularize the combined op-  erations of the Agencies. I have seen the disorder and the disappointments produced by  the failure of governments to harmonize their development programmes by having adequate  planning in due consultation with the United Nations and its Agencies and with the bilateral  aid-givers. I have scen how the best-intentioned projects can produce frustrations. Quite  a lot of past technical assistance projects were what I have come.to call "window-shopping".  By that I mean that we showed people what wonderful things they could have if only they had  the means to do them or to get them, It is like compulsive salesmanship which says that  this so and so is an absolute necessity, but {t is also like walking past the wonderful shop-  windows of Paris with a plate-glass window between you and what you must have and no  francs in your pocket.
8,18 "This brings me to another point fmplicit in draft resolution 113. There should be no  aid programmes without adequate counterparts, This, I hasten to add, is not meanness or  grudging government help, But surely our whole object 18 to help people to help themselves,  This docs not operate if it is done for them and not with them, If there are no human  counterparts for the experts provided, there ia no continuity and no permanence, It isn  once-for-all or it is lke a university without a teaching staff, Furthermore, and this I  find it more difficult to say, although it needs saying, the financial commitment of coun-  terpart funds is a reminder to governments of what thay are taking on, What internation-  al aid can provide, however generous, far beyond what we are giving now, is very little  compared with the long-term commitments of a programme. If you have a university, you  need secondary schools to provide the candidates. If you have secondary schools you need  primary schools to provide the intake. It is no good having the gift of a Rolls Royce if  there is no one to drive it, no one to repair it, no roads on which to ride it and no petrol to  put in its tank. In all earnestness and, I assure you, with complete sympathy for the in-  tention of the movers of the resolution, 1 believe, from my own cvaluation of aid program-  mes throughout the world, that to tamper with the principle of counterpart will be a perma-  nent disservice to the nations we are trying to help.
8.19 What we are talking about in the Development Decade is "sharing knowledge and skills",  and that, at every level, from the highest levels of education to communicating experience  to the illiterates. In this Unesco has a paramount rôle and in those terms we have, through  this General Conference, given it a working programme. Don't let us fool ourselves, it  will not meet in the remaining years of the decade the deficiencies of the first part of the  decade or of the decnde that proceeded. But we have provided a launching pad and the stag-  ings to "get it into orbit". We are ready, distinguished delegates, for the leap ncross the  centuries,
8.20 Mr. President, I have spoken about "revolutions". We have witnessed during this  decade another revolution which should be some consolation for other disappointments. We  have geen a revolution in attitudes. We talk about and accept "investment in human  resources". Dist.nguished delegates, 1 would remind you what this means. People are  not only to be the beneficiaries of development. They are recognized as the essential pre-  requisites of developrnent. Development is no longer regarded as the exploitation of natu-  ral resources, or of the conversion of natural resources. It is dependent on human  resources. ‘The classical picture of industrial development was that from the products of  industrial effort, the compulsive accretion of capital and savings, you might have social  services. It was like a cistern or a tank which once it was filled would spill over into  better educational opportunities, better health services, better community services, bet-  ter nutrition and better living conditions. We now recognize that what we have been call-  ing social services is, in fact, a precondition of prosperity. We have to inject them into  the bottom of the tank. In the modern world of science and technology which alone can  cloge the gap between the affluence of the advanced countries and the poverty of the develop-  ing countries, you cannot have prosperity, you cannot have scientific and tethnological ad-  vance without trained and responsive people, You cannot, as we did in the beginning of the  First Industrial Revolution merely mechanize illiteracy. In modern jargon, this is the hu-  man infrastructure. In more graphic terms it means that we now recognize that you can-  not build factories, you cannot build prosperity, on 4 morass of human misery.
8,21 Now, Mr. President, you will expect me to say something about Britain's rôle in  this sermon I have been preaching, Distinguished delegates, you all have your briefs,  your instructions. There is nothing wrong with that; youare committing your governments.
1, too, have my instructions. They are very simple,
8.22 My government bases its policy on, and through, the United Nations unequivocally,  My government is committed to the utmost support of the Development Decade and of de-  velopment in general to the limit of its means, My government is committed to the aims  and principles of Unesco.
795   XXVIIT Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
8,23 I would remind you that the Ministor of Ovorsens Development 18 à member of the  Cabinet where ho can maintain the arguments for development against tho claims of other  ministries and influence their part in ovorseas development, Unesco and FAO affairs  have been embodied in his Ministry because they are pre-eminently concerned with dovel-  opment, This, on the lovel of national government, is what this General Conference has  been talking about when it talked about integration,
8.24 My Prime Minister is deeply and personally committed to tho issues which concern  us today, And so he should be; he wrote fourteen years ago a book called "War on World  Poverty", 1 commend it to all delegates, Read it and if you find shortcomings in our pre-  sent performance, remind us and him of it. I frequently do.
8,25 That 18 our'unequivocal commitment, Now lot us look at the performance in relation  tothatintention. Britain’ s total financial aid programme is now running at about £200, 000, 000  a year, Of this about £150, 000,000 is in loans and grants; rather more than £30, 000, 000  is in the form of technical assistance and a little under £20, 000,000 in the form of contri-  butions to multilateral development agencies such as the United Nations Development Pro-  gramme and the International Development Association, ete. That does not include our  contributions to the Specialized Agencies which are over and above that figure.
8.26 Almost nine-tenths of our tota] bilateral ald goes to Commonwealth countries and  territories, to the heirs, distinguished delegates, of Empire. This is natural, because we  regard this ns a continuing responsibility and, in terms of world needs, the Commonwealth  countries represent a pretty large part of the globe.
8,27 ‘Technical assistance covers a wide field but its principal components are the pro-  vision of staff from the United Kingdom and the provision of training facilities in Britain,  There are at present about 13,000 persons wholly or partly financed from British Govern-  ment funds serving at present overseas, Ot these about 10,000 have been recruited with  British financial help into the service of overseas governments at their request, About
1,30(. are volunteers and some further 1,300 are serving in other capacities, mainly as  technical assistance experts. Because I am concerned with these British volunteers may  I say very sincerely that they are dedicated young people full of ideals of international ser-  vice - no flag-wagging, only a desire to help, Moreover, we have a scheme which aims  to have hundreds of experts on "standby" - by providing extra staff for British universitics  and other institutions so that they will be able to meet, on demand, the requests for trained  people from the developing countries,
8.28 In terms of natural resources and science, British bilateral grants and loans have  been provided for projects which last year in agriculture, forestry and figheries amounted  to £13and-a-half million, in energy resources to £2, 8 million and in transport and com-  munications to nearly £0 million, About £2 million was spent on research and £1. 6 million  on geodetic and geophysical surveys,
8.208 Education is a priority in British aid programmes - because we believe, distinguished  delegates, in sharing knowledge and skills. We have given capital assistance to developing  universities and other institutions of higher education such as colleges of education and  technical colleges. Teacher training ranks particulavly high, Training staff are provided  for overseas and training bursary courses are arranged in the United Kingdom. Teaching  staff is provided for secondary schools and for universitics overseas, We have set up the  Centre for Educational Television Overseas, the Overseas Visual Aids Centre and the Centre  for Curriculum Renewal and Educational Development Overseas, which in the alphabetic-  syllabic terms we use around the United Nations is reduced to CREDO. I could go cn with  the catalogue but I think I have said enough to show that we are atleast trying to mateh our  performance with our intentions,
8.30 Finally, Mr. President, I quote the Chinese philosopher, Kuan Tzu who, in the  Third century B.C., wrote: "When planning for a year, sow corn; when planning for » do-  cade, plant trees, When planning for a lifetime, train and educate men." Mr, President,
796   Sesiones plenartas / Hsenopuue 3acedanus XXVIII  distinguished delegates, we have not planted enough corn. We have not yet planted enough  trecs, Atleast let us gee that we plan proporly for a lifetime and for posterity,
9.1 Te PRESIDENT:  I thank Lord Ritchie-Calder for having brought forth to us the human realities of the  problem with which we are dealing, It Is refreshing and anlutory for us to hear in such  direct and conerete terms what it is we are really talking about.
9.2 Je donne Ia parole à M, Luantka, au nom de la délégation de la République démocratique  du Congo,
10,1 M. LUANIKA (République démocratique du Congo), -  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Président du Conscil exécutif, Monsieur le Dirce-  teur général, Mesdames ct Messieurs les délégués, absent, pour des ratsons indépendantes  de sa volonté, S, Exec, M, André Bongo, chef de la délégation de la République démocratique  du Congo, regrette sincèrement de ne pouvoir prononcer lui-même son discours à cette  séance, C'est donc en son nom que je me permets de prendre la parole à cette tribune.
10,2 Après les exposés si remarquables des délégués de l'Inde et de Madagascar, ct du  Directeur général, qui ont su préciser clatrement la portée du projet de résolution que nous  avons soumis à votre blenveillante attention, vous me permettrez, Mesdames, Messieurs,  d'exprimer à mon tour la pensée de la délégation de la République démocratique du Congo  sv le problème du développement,
10,3 Je reconnats, avec les délégués qui ont déjà pris la parole À ce sujet, que ce n'est pas  dans cette enceinte qu'il convient de discuter de ce problème ; 11 est plutôt du ressort du  Conscil Économique et social des Nations Unies,
10,4 Si, malgré cette restriction, ma délégation a participé à l'élaboration du projet de ré-  solution 14 C/DR, 199 et si je prends la parole à ce sujet, c'est pour confirmer les termes  de l'exposé du Directeur général, lorsqu'il a reconnu l'importance réciproque du développe-  ment comme condition de la paix et de la paix comme condition du développement, Si cette  vérité est primordiale sur le plan international, elle l'est encore davantage sur le plan na-  tional, surtout en ce qui concerne les pays en voie de développement : récemment sortis de  l'ère colonlale, ces pays ne peuvent se développer normalement que si la paix extérieure et  intérieure leur est garantie, T est done normal - et cela le Directeur général l'a fort bien  indiqué également - que nous évoquions ici le problème du développement après avoir évo-  qué celui de la paix,
10.5 Je suis parfaitement d'accord avec l'affirmation de S, Exe, le délégué du Brésil lors-  qu'il nous faisait remarquer que le développement commence par l'éducation, Cette obser-  vation est encore vraie en ce qui concerne les pays en vote de développement. En effet,  contrairement à ce qui se passe dans les pays développés, qui ont des traditions millénaires  dont peut s'inspirer le développement rationnel de leurs activités économiques, soctales ct  culturelles, dans nos pays tout est à faire, toutest à commencer, Nous sommes, en quelque  sorte, en présence d'une pâte encore malléable, à laquelle il nous faut donner une forme,
10,6 Devant l'immensité de besoins qui semblent tous prioritaires, vous comprendrez,  Monsieur 1e Président, combien il nous est difficile de faire un choix judicieux, Compte  tenu des ressources dont disposent les pays en vole de développement et de l'insuffisance  de l'aide accordée à ces pays par les pays développés, la planification apparaft, me semble-  t-il, comme une condition nécessaire de l'utilisation rationnelle des moyens - et, en cela  aussi, nous approuvons les remarquables formules du Directeur général, La planification  est un des instruments absolument nécessaires, voire indispensables, pour mieux exploi-  ter et faire fructifier nos ressources nationales, aussi bien que les différentes aides que  nous recevons,
797   XVI Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
10,7 Le délégué de Madagascar a fait une remarque très juste en déclarant que nous sommes  des partenaires qui demandons beaucoup ct apportons peu, C'est vrai, ct c'est une aitua-  tion peu commode pour les pays on voie de développement, C'est pourquoi pous pensons que  l'aide planifiée et coordonnée doit être humanisée, c'est-à-dire vigerle bien-être de l'homme  dépourvu, ignorant, affamé, En effet, une aide qui ne provoque pas l'amélioration des con-  ditions de vie des peuples ct n'apporte pas le bien-être à l'homme mérite-t-elle encore le  nom d'aide ?
10,8 l'aide multilatérale se révélant difficile, du fait de ses conditions d'octroi parfois  "tatillonnea", l'aide bilatérale impliquant souvent une regrettable dépendance économique,  politique ou autre, il serait normal que l'effort national, geul exempt de toute Immixtion  dans les affaires internes des Iitats, puisse être encouragé, Je sous-développement cons-  titue, malheureusement, à cet égard, une plerre d'achoppement, Aussi l'aide au dévelop-  pement - quelle que soit sa forme - s'avère-t-elle indispensable pour combler, partielle-  ment sinon totalement, l'écart qui ne cesse de s'accroftre entre les pays insuffisamment  développés ct les pays développés,
10.9 Si nous avons fait appel à la Conférence générale, si nous avons invité le Directeur  général à examiner avec nous le problème du développement, si nous avons voulu chercher  ensemble les causes de l'insuccès total ou partiel de la Décennte des Nations Unies pour le  développement dans le domaine de l'éducation, c'est pour dégager de ses aspects purement  politiques et purement économiques un grave problème qui concerne l'hornme tout entier,
10.10 Ies aspects éducatifs de ce problème, Monsieur le Président, sont plus préoceupants  dans nos pays, parce que l'éducation y constitue justement la base même du développement.  Et c'est pourquoi nous estimons qu'il ne sera jamais superflu d'évoquer ce problème, chaque  fois que l'occasion se présentera, ct qu'on n'en parlera jamais assez, aussi longtemps qu'il  s'agira de considérer l'homme tout entier, c'est-à-dire du point de vue social, économique,  technique et culturel,
10,11 Voilà pourquoi nous nous sommes associés au projet de résolution 14 C/DR, 199 et  voilà pourquoi nous appuyons également le projet de résolution 14 C/DR, 113 Rev, présenté  par l'Algérie, Madagascar, le Niger, la République centrafricaine, le Rwanda, le Sénégal et  le Tchad, Car, pour nous, Monsieur le Président, ce problème de développement est fon-  darnental et constitue la base de toute coexistence pacifique des peuples et la condition in-  dispensable d'une collaboration franche en vue du progrès scientifique, économique et cul-  turel de l'humanité tout entière.
11, Le PRÉSIDENT, -  Je remercie le délégué de la République du Congo ct je donne la parole à M, S,N, Shu,  délégué du Cameroun,
12.1 Mr. SHU (Cameroon):  Mr, President, distinguished delegates, I join the other delegations in expressing ap-  preciation of the work of the Director-General and that of his Secretariat as shown in docu-  ment 14 C/10,
12.2 Cameroonis one of the 52 Member States sponsoring the draft resolution 14 C/DR. 199.  The numerical strength of the sponsors alone reminds me of the saying of the ancient  Romans, vox populae vox Dei, "the voice of the people is the voice of God". We have pass-  ed resolutions on this floor sponsored by one Member State only, but here, where we have
52 Member States sponsoring one resolution, there is every indication that the gravity of  the situation is considerable. The resolution in document 14 C/DR.113 Rev. proposed by  Madagascar is closely related to that in document 14 C/DR,199 proposed by India, since  both deal with the related theme of marshalling all forces to speed up development in the  developing countries, and my delegation strongly supports both resolutions.
12.3 Yesterday we heard seven speakors on this all-important subject of Unesco! 8 contri-  bution to the promotion of the nims and objectives of the United Nationa Development De-  cade, and of the seven speakora five were positively in full support of the above-mentioned  resolutions, while two apenkors were indifferent because they required time to consider  the resolutions and formulate their stand, 1 am very fond of the classics and I remind  you of the saying I quoted earlier, vox populae vox Dei, hence this majority support for  the draft resolution before us. Of the five speakers today, three have spoken positively  in favour of it and two are indifferent, but the general trend of opinion is that something  should be done to specd up development in developing countries.
12.4 The attitude of the distinguished delegites of Brazil, Yugoslavia and Bulgaria, who  spoke very strongly yesterday in support of the above~mentioned resolutions, struck me  immensely because, even though they were not party to these resolutions and had had no  time to study them, they had at a rapid glance placed their fingers on the essentials. And,  of courge, the conclusion to be drawn from this is that truth always stands out conspicuously  and cannot be overshadowed, The Brazilian delegate rightly observed that the criteria  adopted by the Special Fund sector had tobe modified in order to realize the ends envisaged  by the draft resolutions put forward by India and Madagascar, The distinguished delegate  from Yugoslavia quite correctly pointed out yesterday that the aims of the United Nations  Development Decade must be achieved in their totality - not only in education, but especially  in economic and aocjal spheres, where developing countries are struggling to throw off the  yoke of underdevelopment, but are daily faced with severe odds, such as food problems,  transfer of currency problems, international illiquidity problems, unfavourable economic  laws and practices which even sometimes tend to favour the already developed countries;  and day by day fresh problems are raiged and the gulf between the haves and the have-nots  and the developed and the undeveloped widens and deepens,
12.5 There 18 a saying, Mr. President, that "every invention was only made once"; the  only other task then remaining is that of spreading it throughout the whole world through  the processes of learning, training, transporting, transplanting, adopting the changed  circumstances, etc, If so, then as l understand it the United Nations Development Decade  is a decade dedicated to transforming the whole human world to a mass civilized standard  of living, by the modern definitions of the term civilized. The achievement of this goal of  course means a great deal of sacrifice and involves processes designed positively to nar-  row the gap between developed and underdeveloped areas, and the complete avoidance of  processes likely to widen and deepen the aforesaid differences.
12.6 Man is by nature a progressive animal always improving himself and continuously  supplementing in his environment what nature has provided for him. ‘The weaver-bird's  nest from the beginning of creation to this day has been the same from generation to gener-  ation. Man started off fn pre-historic times as a cave-dweller and even sometimes lived  in the branches of trees, but he gradually progreased and today he lives in mansions and  sky-scrapers. The biggest cities today, Paris, London, New York, Geneva, Berlin etc.,  stand on what was less than a hundred or two hundred years ago hunting ground or the site  of rustic dwellings. But with the Industrial Revolution in the eighteenth and nineteenth  centuries and its accompanying economic development, man whom Shakespearé describes  as the paragon of animals has with his infinite wisdom developed these cities to their aplen-  did present day dimensions,
12.7 The greatest concern of the United Nations Development Decade, and this fs perhaps  the greatest hope of the century, is to ensure lasting peace and happiness for all peoples  of our world not only by wiping out wars and other things that keep people apart, but by com-  pressing into a period of ten years or thereabouts, the advances made by developed coun-  tries during a period of over 100 years, and passing these on to the developing countries  As the greatest legacy of developed man to developing man, If this fs our goal, then is  this not exactly the gist of the two draft resolutions before us? ’
799   XXVIII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
12,8 In document'14 C/5, Part II, Chapter4, undor Communication, I find a most welcome  and progressive proposal to uso, in Uneaco' s future programmes, space communication  satellites for mass communication media. This is excellent progress, but for the fact  that in my country, Cameroon, when recently I prepared educational programmes for  school broadcasting, one of the first difficulties I ran up against was that most of the pri-  mary schools could not aven afford radio sets and so also many of the homes, The same  difficulty is met with in 80 many other directions. When I tried to arrange adult literacy  classos, for instance, it was not casy to bring to and from the literacy centres some of  the people living in scattered localities without good roads or without transport. So that  econoinic development is paramount in any drive for civilizing people, or developing a  people or raising a standard of living. I so enjoy this lovely city of Paris, but imagine  how much the French Government must have spent to build the public buildings, the air-  lines, the shipa and boats, the national industries, the schools, colleges and univeraitics  to bring the standard of living in Paris to what it is today. Conversely, take away all  these things, roads, trains, buses, airlines, in which the Government has invested and  ace if Paris or London or any other city will not go down to the level of living in the under-  developed countries of today. All this points to the fact that the only effective short-term  solution to the problem of developing the developing countries to the standard alrcady at-  tained by developed countries is to flow in capital or finance to meet the multifarious needs  for basic services which a government must provide for its people to maintain a certain  standard of living. If therefore, capital is the main solution, does it not follow that the  contribution of United Nations organizations to any given project in developing countries  must be significant? Do the resolutions under consideration not point in this direction.
12,9 It is a wonderful coincidence that the Headquarters of Unesco is in Paris in a nation  which stands on Liberty, Equality and Fraternity. Personally, I see Unescoas the main  agent of levelling down differences to ensure lasting peace by continually bridging gaps and  eliminating all that makes people different from others and all that keeps people apart.  But 18 it not a fact that within the membership of Unesco, there ave Member States whose  masses live in abject poverty though having enormous undeveloped natural resources and  excellent potentialities for industry? And so they will continue if those States remain raw-  material producing areas for any length of time. The problem is not so much that of per-  sonnel, for they could be trained within a few years, nor is it so much that of technical  know-how, for experts can always be invited to help; the main problem is that of capital  investment and Unesco must spare no paing in handling this aspect of the problem. Think  of the factors that control the location and sites and growth of towns and cities, They are  mainly economic. The towns only grow up in productive areas.
12.10 There is a saying that "cauliflower is nothing but cabbage with a college education”  and by this it 18 meant that education alone 18 the solution to our development problemas,  Admittedly education is a very important factor in dovelopment, but we cannot afford to  lose sight of the cognate factor called capital. As the distinguished delegate of the United  States of America pointed out yesterday And also the distinguished delegate of the United  Kingdom this afternoon, the United States and a number of other countries havo, by their  technical assistance, given an appreciable amount of help. Cameroon has had technical  assistance from France, the United Kingdom, the United States of America, the USSR,  Canada and some other countries for a number of years, especially technical aid in train-  ing personnel abroad, and we are most grateful. But this by itself does not constitute the  short-term solution as envisaged by the United Nations Development Decade, for only a  hnndful of trained persons would form an élite and the masses would remain undeveloped.  We have accepted what has been described as mechanized education, or mechanized liter-  acy againat a background of misery. Only 15% of our primary school leavers have oppor-  tunities for secondary education and over 70% of our primary school leavers fall out into  society without any definite employment. Not that we sleep and just wait for manna to  come from heaven, but the fact is that our national efforts need strong propping if the goals  of the United Nations Development Decade are to be realized. We have started serious  schemes on universal primary education, in the hope that if all the young of today are edu-  cated there will be no illiterates in the next generation, and all adult literacy projects can
80v   Sesiones plenartas / Msenapure Jacevanua XXVII  then be laid to rest, ut, Mr. President, developing countries must bo given more treip  than at présent. We appreciate what is so far done but we are only Oliver I'wiate who juat  want some more In order to live upto the standards and the requirements of the United Nations  Development Decade, To convey thia in appropriate terma to the appropriate United Na-  tlons quarters for action, this is the duty of Uncaco ~ to put ncrosa what exactly 19 neces -  ary for achieving theso desirable goals,
12,11 Finally, Mr. President, although the lead of my delegation has already paid tributes  to deserving personalities, I would do myself much injustice If I were to leave thia rostrum  without expressing certain sentiments, Tar be it from me to take up your valuable time,  but there are three tributes I must make on a personal note, Thesge are to the President  of the fourteenth session of the General Conference, Professor Tuncel, whose manner and  way of handling the session I most admire, then the President of the Executive Board, and  finally, the Director-General, These are men whose exemplary life of devoted service to  humanity will go down in the annals of history; and especially the Director-General - he  is simply marvellous. He is everywhere, and has his hands on everything. His voice  speaks loudest on all the documents, he is on all the Commissions and Committees and he  strikes problems right at the core, He {a a credit to the country that was privileged to  have such a gon born in it and those of us who are disposed to learn would learn from him,  if nothing else, at least that quality of full-time devo:edness to whatever duties we have to  perform and above all to the service of mankind,
12,12 Mr. President, the resolutions proposed by India and Madagascar are out to tilt the  balance of things in favour of greater service to humanity and I am leaving this rostrum  confident that all those of you who have the interest of mankind as a whole at heart will gee  it through, and adopt other devices as well to ensure that within the shortest possible time,  Member States of Unesco will be sitting here on a basis not only of equal sovereignty but  algo of equal or almost equal development, to the extent that all species of that animal cal-  led man may enjoy to the full the fruits with which our world is plenished, and all men and  women of all nations can be in a position to look at the achievements of man, homo sapiens,  with admiration and say with Shakespeare "What a plece of work is man! How noble in  reason! How infinite in faculty... The beauty of the world!" The Scripture says "What  shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose his soul? “; it may now also be  agked, what shall ft profit a man if he enjoy the fruits of the earth alone while others of  his species struggle in abject poverty elsewhere? ‘Support therefore the Indian and  Madagascar draft resolutions which are.out to mitigate the struggles of your fellow men  in the developing countries.
13.1 Le PRÉSIDENT, -  Je remercie le délégué du Cameroun de son discours si dense et si intéressant,
13,2 Je donne maintenant la parole à M, Okhotine, délégué de l'Union des républiques s0-  cialistes soviétiques,
14.1 A.A.OXOTHH (Con3 Conetokux ColHaaHcTHUOCKIX Pecny6auk):  Toctionui IIpeaconatesrb, rocnona RonoraTs! B CHONX DHOTYNAOHHAX YDAXAOMEI npoeja-  CTABHT@Nb HHAHH T-H Kupnaa H ypaxaonmui Nenepansietit Apekrop r-n Penne Mas AocTarou-  HO HO/MHO HPO/ACTABHAH HAM BONPOC o J[OCATHAOTHH pAIBHTHH,
14.2 Tocnonun Ilperncoraronb! Mpoura nopnast MOHOBHHA JLOCHATHIOTHH paIBHTHH. ÉCAH roBo-  PHTb B 11€JIOM, TO CCTb No DCOR CHCTOMO OOH, TO HTOIH NOPBHIX NATH MOT JIOCATHABTYA pa3-  BUTHR OO ue npuiecan XONAGMEX peaynrraTon, OTHOCHTOALHO CKPOMHEO IAJAUX ILecATHAO-  THR MO POCTY TOMIOD SKOHOMHYOCKOFO H COUHANbHOTO NOALOMA PAKTHUOCKH HO BEIIONIHHIOTCA,  O6 3TOM XO CBHAOTOARCTBYOT H POIONOUHA, IpHIIATAN DKOHOMHUGCKHM HW COINHAJLHLM Cope-  TOM JleToM 1966 r. n Xenene, B KoropoRt oTMoeyaeTcs "C pasoYaposantem M@ANOHHbIH npo-  TPOCC D JIOCTHXOHHH NRONOH H poewounil 3aaaY, NMOCTABABHILIX Ans JlecATHAOTHA pasBHTHA",
801   XXVII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
14,3 CoKpamensuo TOMNON IKONOMHIACKOFO POCTA PAIBHNAIONIXCH CTPAH, COTOCTROINHO, BJO  or OA colofl H BCO OTPHIBTONLHLIO IOCHONCTRHA ANA PAIRHTHA D COMMANDION OGHACTH, B 06-  NACTH pASHHTHH HAYKH, obpasonalus H KYABTYPH.
14.4 Hoy/NONAOTBOPHTOAbHOO HEIHO/IMOHHO IAAAU JlecATHAGTH PAIBUTHA OGYC/ONHOHO, B nep-  nyo OUGPO/b, NPONONKANUOHOH OKCIVEYATAIMON OCTOCTBOHIBIX H JIVACKHX POCYPCOR pasnHnab-  UHXCH CTPAH HHOCTPAHIBMH MOHONONHAMH.
14.5 B nacrosanoc BPOMA NpHHATO CUHTATh, YTO PpAI3PpOUEHHO IKOIOMHUOCKHX, CONHA/NBHELX H  KYJRTYPHEIX npo6/ioM pasnHBAOI(HXCH CTPAH SABHCHY D Goabuoft CTOMONH OT MOOHAUSAIHH Ma-  TOPHA/IbIEX H PHIAHCOBHIX pocypcon. Kolteullo, B HIBOCTIHON Mopo ato Tak, Ho ne CHOAYOT  YNYCKATD Ips OTOM H3 BUHAY, “UTO MOGHAH3AIUHA POCYPCOB BHYTPH CTPAlIL SADHCHT H OT XApaK-  TOpa DHOUNHX CHAIOÂ TO cTpanst,
14.6 BsICOKHO TOMNLI pasDHTHH xoasficTna, pocT HayKH, KyJNbTYpH, BHOAPOHHO HOBOñMON  TOXHOJOTHI TP6ÔYIOT HOBO} SKOHOMHAVECKOÏ H COUHANBHOÏ CTPYKTYPBI, AUKBHNANHH AHCNPOTIOP-  UHH, OCTABIHXCAH B HACJIOCACTBO OT KOJONHA/NHIMA, TPHOYIOT HOBEIX PABHONPABHEX MexAayHa=-  POAHBIX SKOHOMHYOCKHX H COLHA/bIHBX OTHONOHHR. JINR Tex PAIBHBADL[HXCH CTPaH, KOTOPhIE  HuyT aPPOKTHBHEIX nyTeR TIPOONONOHHH CHOGH 93KOHOMHUYECKOH H KYJbTYpHOIt OTCTA/JIOCTH, 06-  UHM ABJIACTCA OCYUICCTRICHHO AONTOCPONUHEEX TIPOTpAMM HX XOS3AHCTPEHIOrO H COIHA/bHOFO  pocta HA OCHOBE IIPOBE/IGHHA MOponpHATHi NO YKpOIVIOHHIO TOCYHAPCTHGHIIOTO COKTOPpA, HaIHO-  HA/MHAAIHH paxuefimnx orpacnaeil 3KOHOMHKI, OTPpAHHUCHHS NOATO/NBHOCTH HHOCTPAHHEX Kanu-  TAJIHOTHYOCCKHX MOHOMOJHH It OCYMCCTB/ONHE APYTHX MED MPOTHBONOHCTBHH HOOKO/NOHHANHIMY.
14.7 Tlporcranurerb KoHro #3 BpassaBH14 H pal APpyrHXx DBICXYNABUINX 3/16Ch AO/NOTATOB ro-  BOPH/H O TPYA1IOCTAX B paIBHTHH HX CTPAH H O MOHCKAX MYTOÏ A/a bLIXoaa H3 3THX Thy AitocToll,
14.8 HekoTOopsIe H3 pasnHDAHDI[HXC5 CTPAH MbITAIOTCA HATH DLIXOA H3 TPYAHOYO MOTOXKOHHA  HOCPOACTBOM MPHD/CYONHH HHOCTPANHEEX HCTOYHHKOB PHHAHCHPOBAHHH, Koneuno, Gb1710 Gut se-  peasbllo HrHOPHPOBATL BAXHYO POJIL, KOTOPYIO CMOXOT CHIFPATL HHOCTPAHHHH KanuTan B 3KO-  HOMHYGCKOM H COIMHANLHOM pA3BHTHH pasBHDAI{HXCA CTPAaIl.
14.9 Onnako hakTH HOKA3bIBAINT, ©C/IH FOROPHTb O YACTHOM HHOCTPAHHOM KanliTazne, 4TO OH  NpOAOCTAB/ACTCA PAIBHBAOUIIMCH CTPAHAM JAUACTYM la HOGHATOTNPHATHLIX YC/IOBHAX, H3 oTHX  CTPall D KOHCYHOM CUGTE yTeKawnT GONBUIHO cpejicroa B DHAO upnbuneft un aunuaenaon. Tak, no  NatHHbM npesyionta Mex/yHapontoro Ganka peKolCTPyKIMi H pasDHTHA r-Ha Bynaca, Ha pas-  BHBAOIHXCH cTpal B BHAC NPHÔLIEH, AUBHACHAON H MNPOICHTOB Ono BHBOIONHO B 1964 roay
6 MAPANONHAPOoR.
14.10 CrHenonaTesnbHo, COI/ACTCH TAKAA OGCTAHORKA, MPH Koropoit HHOCTPANHBE KaDUWTANH-  CTHYCCKHO MOHOMNO/HH DHDOIAT H3 pAIBHBAOUHXCA CTPAH Gonbue, VOM ONH MPONOCTAB/HIOT  HM D MOpAAKO MNOMOIIt H BKAAABBBIOT D BHO SIOBAEX HHNCOTHUHÉ. OCHOBHOÏ NPHYHHOÏ YTOUKH  CPO/JCTB H3 PAIBHBANIHHXCH CTPA HB/MAIOTCH HOIMOMEPHO BHCOKHE NPHOLLIH H HBH/EH/B, KO-  TOPBIE YIVIAUHBAIOT PAIBHDANHHECH CTPAHIH YACTHOMY KAIHTA/NŸ.
14.11 PasyMeeTcs, OTTOK CPONCTB CKA3LDACTCA HA 3AMC/UIEHHH TOMHOB XO3HHCTROHHOFO 1  KyY/bTYPpHOTO CTPOHTE/IbCTBA PAIBHBAIOIHXCH cipal. len H SAAAUH, NOCTAB/IOHKBIC NICPOA HH-  MH JLECATIVICTHOM PpasBHTHA OOH B O6NACTH ©X6FOAHONO NPHPOCTA HEIHOHA/BbHOTO JOXONA,  TecHo CBH3ANLL C NPOÉNOMON HAKONM/OHHA, ¢ HEOOXOAHMOCTLO IIPOBOC/OHHH B 3THX CTpaHax pa-  AUKA/NBHEIX @MOKPATHYUOCKHX 3EMOJbHEIX pehopM.
14.12 Oprannaauxa Obreaunennerx Haut H CHOUHANHIHPORAHHBLO YYPOXAONHHI OOH, BKAOUYAA  IOHECKO, Honxub ohPeKTIHBHO coaeficTBonarh ÿCH/IOHHIO GopbGsi C pasiHuHoro poaa npo-  ABJIOHHAMH KO/MOHHA/IHIMA H HEOKOJIOHHANHIMA B IKOHOMHHGCKOR, CONHANBHOR H KY/IbTYpHOR  OGJACTAX.,
14.13 3/6Cb B BHCTYNICHHAX 3ATPATHBANCH BONPOC O IIPOAOCTANHONHH MOMOIN(S PAIDHBAIONHM-  CA CTPAHAM. Mb! HIPH/AGOM GONBUOO IHAYOHHS 3TOMY AO/Y, COBOTCKOE Iocy/lapcTBO OKAILIBAOT
14.14 Ora noMoms OCYMOCTH/IAOTOHK B POPMO co3fanig B OTHX CTPAHAX Y"1G6HEX IADOAONHÉ  pastitix THIOD, Y“USÔHEX HONTPON, KOMAHAHPORAHNA TYAA CIHOIHAIHCTOB HAPpOAIOTO OGpasona-  nid, TIPONOAABATO/ON, nocranok HAGOpAaTOPHOr] H npouero yuebiioro oGopynonanusa, Takas  HOMOU[L okasmnaorca OAP, Mans, Adrauscrany, Hein, Comans, KamGonxe, BupMe, Pni-  neo, TyHucy H ApyrHM CTpatHaM, 3 HacToAunoce npeMs B ConerckoM Cownae OGYUAIOTCA THCAUN  CTYACNTOD, ACIHPAHTOR H PA3NHYIOT0 posa CTAXOpon HI PA3BNBANNNXCA CTPAl B YH OHEIX I  HaAy4IO-HCCHONODATO/NLCKHX HHCTHTYTAX, HA NPOHIDOACTRO Kak D MOCKBO, TAK # D KPyNnHHIX  roposiax Ha MopHPOpHH, NOAroTORAAN ANA GTHX CTPAH GYAYMHX HIEXOHOPOD, YHOHEX TOXHHKON  H APyTHO KDAïHPIHtI{Hponainitre Kajapsl,
14.15 TOM io MOIIOE, Ham DO3MOXHOCTH HO JHE OOH oule HOAOCTATOWNO HCHONLIYIOTCA,  Ha cyerax OOH no nporpaMmMam TOXHHYOCKOÏ noMoms, OCOGeHHo CrolmanbHoro doiaa, AO  CHX IIOP elle He HCIOMNb3OBANO CRHLUO 9 Man, py6reit.
14.17 Y Hac ecTh B OYHONIGHHH HOTO Ana 3aMeuaHin. llepsoe - D TipeaMGyie pesorouxH,  a6sau 5, rae ronopiTea: "c GecHoKoficTBOM OTMOYas, YrO MOANTHKA I1OH HA CHPbO, NPODO-  MAA T/ABHBIMH, CHAbHBMH B 9KOHOMHUOCKOM OTHOMOIHH, JAepxaBariu" - Mel XOTOAN 6m,  uT06H MOCHE CHOB "C GOCHOKOÏNCTBOM OTMOYAA, UTO MOAUTHKA GH HA CHIPLO, MpOBO/HMAs",  Gb1710 BCTADAOHO ono CHOBO "HOKOTOPELMH", H AAICE no TOKCTY,
14.18 Hawia cTpaia B CBOHX TOPTORbIX H# 9KOHOMHYOCKHX CBA3AX, MAA HANCTPOYY MOXC/AHHAM  MHOTHX pa3BHBAIOIHXCA CTPAH, DCC YDO/HHIBACT B IHAUNTONbHEX MACHTAGAX SAKYNKH y HHX  FOTOBEIX H3AOHHÀ H TON1YGAOpHKATOB H TOM CAMbIM TAKXO AKTHBHO CONCHCTBYOT HIIAYCTPHANH-
3a PA3DHBAHI(HXCAH CTPAH.
14.20 K npookry pesonbuux 14 C/DR, 113, NPOACTABNCHIOMY A/1XHPOM H PANOM ApyrHx  aPpHKaHcKHX CTpaH, lava AO/OTAIUNT OTHOCHTCA CO DHUNMAHHOM H 6YACT 3a HOYO TONOCOPATh,
(14,1) M, OKHOTINE (Union des républiques socialistes soviétiques).- (Traduit du russe, )  Monsieur le Président, Mossieurs les délégués, l'honorable représentant de l'Inde,  M, Kirpal et le directeur général de l'Unesco, M, René Maheu nous ont exposé suffisamment en  détail, dans leurs interventions, le problème de la Décennie du développement,
(14,2) Monsieur le Président, la première moitié de cette Déconnie s'est maintenant écoulée,  Si l'on se place du point de vue du système des Nations Unies dans son ensemble, les travaux  accomplis au cours de ces cing premières années n'ont pas donné les résultats escomptés, En  effet, les objoctifs relativement modestes qui avalent été fixés concernant le taux de croissance  économique ct social n'ont pas été atteints, C'est d'ailleurs ce dont témoigne la résolution adop-  tée à Genève pendant l'été 1966 par le Conseil économique et social, résolution où l'on peut lire  "que les progrès réalinés vers les buts et objectifs fixés pour la Décennie des Nations Unies  pour le développement ont été lents et décevants',
(14.3) La diminution du taux de croissance économique des pays en vole de développement  exorco évidemment toutes sortes d'effets néfastes sur l'évolution soclule et sur l'avancement de  la science, de l'éducation et de la culture.
(14.4) Siles progrès réalisés au cours des cinq premtères années de la Déconnie sont décevants,  c'est avant tout parce quo des monopoles étrangers continuent À exploiter les ressources natu-  relles et humaines des pays on vole de développement,
803   XXVIII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
(14,5) À l'heure actuollo, on considèro généralement que la solution des problèmes économiques,  sociaux et culturels de cos pays dépond on grande partie de In mobilisation de lours ressources  naturelles ot financières, Ft c'ost oxact dans uno certaine mesure, Mais {1 no faut pas perdro  de vue pour autant que In mobilisation des ressources intériouros d'un pays dépond aussi du  caractère dos lions qui oxistent ontre co pays ot l'étrangor,
(14,6) Pour qu'il y ait un taux élové do dévolopyoment économique, pour que la science ot la cul-  ture progrossent ot que soient appliquées des tuchniques nouvelles, il faut une nouvelle structure  économique ot sociale, la liquidation des déaéquilibres hérités du colonialisme et l'établisso-  ment do nouveaux rapports d'égalité ontre los pouplos sur lo plan économique ot social, Tous  les pays on vole do développement qui cherchant des moyens officaces de surmontor lour rotard  économique et culturel so doivent d'établir ct d'exécutor un programme a long terme do dévelop-  pement économique et social visant le renforcement du socteur public, la nationalisation des  branchos importantes de l'économie, la limitation de l'activité des monopoles capitalistes étrangers  et l'adoption d'autres mesures de résistance au néo-colonialismo,
(14,7) Le roprésentant du Congo (Brazzaville) et plusieurs autres délégués ont parlé dos diffi-  cultés que leurs pays rencontrent sur la voie du progrès et des efforts qu'ils font pour trouver  les moyens de surmonter cos difficultés.
(14,8) Certains pays en vole de développement tentent de sortir de leur situation difficile en  chorchant à attirer des capitaux étrangers. Certes, il ne serait pas réaliste d'ignorer le rôle  important que peut jouer le capital étranger dans le progrès économique et social des pays en  volo do développement,
(14,9) Pourtant, les faits montrent que le capital étranger privé ost souvent accordé aux pays  en vole de développement à des conditions pou avantagouses, En fin de compte, d'importantes  ressources s'échappont de ces pays sous forme de bénéfices et de dividendes, Selon lo témoi-  gnage de M. Woods, président de la Banque internationale pour la reconstruction et le développe-  ment, 6 milllards de dollars ont été exportés en 1964 ces pays on vofo de développement sous  forme de bénéfices, de dividendes et d'intérêts.
(14,10) Ainsi, so crée uno situation telle quo les monopoles capitalistes étrangers retirent dos  pays en vole de développement plus qu'ils ne leur donnent au titre de l'assistance ou qu'ils no  leur apportont sous forme d'investissemeonts, Ia raison fondamentale de cette déperdition de  ressources ost que les pays en vole de développement palent des bénéfices ot des dividendes  excessivement élevés au capital privé,
(14,11) Bien entendu, l'exode des ressources se traduit par un ralentissemant du rythme du  progrès économique et culturel, Ios buts et les tâches qui ont été assignés aux paya on vole de  développement par la Décennie des Nations Unies pour lo développement en ca qui concerne  l'augmentation du revenu national annuol sont étroitement liés au problème de la formation de  capital et À la nécessité de réaliser des réformes agratres radicales et démocratiques.
(14,12) L'Organisation des Nations Unies et les Institutions apécialiséos, dont l'Unesco, doivent  contribuer effectivement A l'Intensification de la lutte contre les différentes manifestations du  colonialisme et du néo-colonialisme dans les domaines économique, social ot culturel,
(14,13) Les orateurs qui m'ont précédé ont parlé de l'assistance aux pays on volo de développe-  mont, Nous attachons uno grande importance À cette question, L'Etat soviétique apporte une aldo  considérable aux pays on vole do développement, tant sur lo plan bilatéral que dans lo cadre des  programmes d'assistance technique de l'ONU.
(14,14) Cette assistance consiste à créer dans ces pays des établissements d'ensoignement do  différents types ot des centres pédagogiques, à y envoyer des spécialistes do l'éducation ot du per-  sonnel ensotgnant et à lour fournir de l'équipement de laboratoire ot d'autres moyens d'enseligno-  ment, L'Union soviétique fournit une aide de ce type À la RAU, au Mali, à l'Afghantatan, à l'Inde,  A la Somalio, au Cambodge, à la Birmanie, à la Guinée, a la Tunisie et A divors autres pays, A  l'heure actuelle, des milliers d'étudiants, boursiers et stagiaires de différentos catégories ve-  nus des pays en vole de développement étudient en Union soviétique dans divers établissements  d'enseignement et Inatituts de recherche scientifique aussi bien qu'en usine, tant à Moscou que  dans les principales villes périphériques, Ce sont les futurs ingénieurs, chercheurs, techniciens  et autres cadres qualifiés de ces pays,
(14,18) Néanmoins, on n'utillse pas encore assez les possibilités offertes parles Nations Unies,  Sur les fonda versés par l'URSS aux Nations Udles pour les programmes d'asnistanco technique,  ot surtout pour ceux du Fonds apécial, on n'a guère utilisé jusqu'iet plus do 9 millions de roubles,
(14,18) En co qui concorne le projot de résolution 14 C/DR,109 présonté par un groupo {mpor-  tant do pays en vole do développoment, 11 nous somblo acceptable dans ses grandes Hgnon,
(14,17) Nous avons copondant deux remarques À faire à aon aujot, Tout d'abord, au quatrièmo  nlinéa du préambule dans le membro do phraso ""conatatant avec inquiétude quo la politique des  prix des matières premières suivie par los puissances économiques dominantes", nous aimo-  vions qu'après les mots "suivie par" on remplace le mot "les" par lo mot "certaines", et que  la même modification soft apportée dans les autros partios do ro texte,
(14,18) Fn effet, dans ses rapports économiques et commorciaux avec l'étrangor, l'Union so-  vlétiquo, allant au dovant des désirs do nombreux pays en vole de développement, continue A  accroftro dans do fortes proportions ses achats de produits finis ot somi-finis A ces pays, con-  tribuant ainsi activomont à leur {ndustrialisation,
(14,10) Par aflleurs, nous no pouvons pas donner notre appui au To alinéa du préambulo du pro-  jet de résolution, relatif au transfert aux pays en vole de développement de 1 % du revenu na-  tional de tous les pays économiquement développés, ot nous nous abatiendrons lors du vote sur  cet alinéa,
(14,20) Pour ce qui est du projet de résolution 14 C/DR, 113 présenté par l'Algérie ot divers  autres pays africains, notre délégation l'a examiné avec attention ct votera en sa faveur,
(14.21) Nous nous réservons le droit de reprendre la parole, s'il le faut, pour faire connaître  notre opinion sur les projets de résolution et los aniondements qui ne nous sont pas encore par-  venus,
15, Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie M, Okhotine et je donne la parole à M, Olivier de Sayvo, délégué do la  France.
16.1 M, DE SAYVE (France), -  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Mossiours les délégués, Chacun de nous a été  frappé, on lisant le rapport du Directeur général sur la Décennie des Nations Unies pour le  développement, des perspectives décevantes qu'il ouvre, notamment en ce qui concerne  l'évolution en sens inverse du taux de croissance des revenus selon qu'il s'agit des pays en  voie de développement ou des autres pays, Toutefois, la lecture du document 14 C/10 fait  apparaftro, dans les domaines rolevant de la compétence de l'Unesco, certains éléments  positifs qui soutiennent notre espoir et prouvent qu'une partie de l'action menée par l'Orga-  nisation est dans la bonne voie, en particulier en ce qui concerne l'enseiggnement scolaire,
16,2 Il n'en reste pas moins que de grands efforts restent à faire, Tout le monde le recon-  naft et le Directeur général a bien posé le problème sous ses trois aspects : ressources,  planification, coordination.
16,3 I'n ce qui concerne l'augmentation des ressources, j'estime que cette question est,  avant tout, du ressort du Conseil d'administration du Programme des Nations Unies pour  le développement, Et le Directeur général a eu raison d'insister sur le rôle de l'Unesco :  c'est notre Organisation, en effet, qui peut faire en sorte que les pays et les peuples  prennent plus profondément conscience de la solidarité qui nous unit tous, sans exception,  Et c'est aussi l'Unesco qui peut ancrer en nous cette notion d'humanisme du développement,  dont plusteurs de nos collègues ont déjà parlé, J'ajoute que j'ai écouté aussi avec beaucoup  de sympathie los déclarations du Directeur général sur l'harmonisation de l'aide bilatérale  et de l'aide multilatérale,
16,4 Pour ce qui est de la planification, je pense que c'est là un des domaines fondamen-  taux où l'Unesco peut faire - et faire faire - des progrès. Le Chef de la délégation fran-  caise a insisté là-dossus à plusieurs reprises et j'estime qu'en établissant de strictes  priorités et en améliorant l'administration, on pout contribuor d'une façon appréciable au  redrossement désiré, En co qui concorne les efforts prévus dans le document 14 C/10, ila  ont été oxaminés par la Commission du programme et la plupart des suggostions présen-  tées ont recueilli l'approbation enthousiaste de la délégation française.
805   XXVITI , Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
16,5 Resto onfin la coordination. T0 Dirocteur général, dans son rapport Intitulé "Evalua-  tion dos activités do l'Unesco (1064-1066) ot porapoctivos d'avenir" (document 14 C/4),  nous a fait part des grands progrès accomplis dans ce domaine à l'intérieur du système  dos Nations Unies, notamment dans los rapports entre l'Unesco ot lo l’onds spécial on ma-  tière de programmation et, particulièrement, de l'oxcollent système de consultation à deux  phases qui a été institué, Voilà un système qu'il nous faut maintenir et développer, Le Di-  recteur général nous a proposé dos améliorations et nous sommes enclins à appuyer  l'ensemblo de ses propositions,
16,6 C'est un aspoct particulier de co domaine qui est visé par le projet de résolution
14 C/DR, 113 Rev. Nous comprenons parfaitemont l'importance et l'acuité des problèmes  mentionnés, Nous savons aussi que lo Directeur général se fera l'intorprète porsuasif de  la cause ainsi présentée, Néanmoins, la délégation française s'abstiendra lors du vote, car  elle estime que les demandes précises qui figurent dans ce projet de résolution, notamment  dans le dernier paragraphe, sont de la compétence d'autres instances internationales et  doivent être examinées avec soin par ces instances,
16,7 En ce qui concerne le projet de résolution 14 C/DR,199, je n'ai pas encore pris con-  naissance de l'Addendum qui y a été ajouté, Pour ce qui cest du projet de résolution
14 C/DR,204, présenté par le Brésil, dont le texte n'a pas encore été distribué, je peux  dire, d'après ce que j'en sais, qu'il bénéficiera de la sympathie de la délégation française.
17, Ie PRESIDENT. -  Je remercie le délégué do la France et je donne la parole au dernier orateur inscrit,  S, xe, le Dr Ricardo Gallardo, chef de la délégation d'El Salvador.
(18,1) M, GALLARDO (El Salvador) , - (Tracuit de l'espagnol. )  Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les déj égués, Je mo suis permis d'appolor votre atten-  tion sur deux notions : celles d'un "marché co mmunt dos intelloctuols et do l'intelligence et  d'une "banque de la technique” - notions que j'ai oxposées sommairement ot dont jo voudrais  reparlor maintenant un peu plus en détail,
(18,2) L'Unosco dovra désormais s'intéresser do plus en plus aux aspacts économiques de la  vie des Etats ot des peuples, Comme lo Directeur général l'a rappolé, l'éducation est étroito-  ment léo au dévoloppement ; cependant, certains concopts qui convionnent parfaitement À l'éco-  nomie pourraient paraître déplacés lorsqu'il s'agit d'éducation, Après avoir écouté les orateurs  qui m'ont précédé, je peux dire que los expressions "pays évolués" et "pays insuffisamment dé-  veloppés' qui sont employées dans le domaine économique, n'ont pas le même sens si on les  applique à l'éducation, Je ne prétends pas trouver sur le champ un terme approprié que l'Unesco  pourrait adopter, mats je tiens à établir une distinction très claire et très nette entre l'aspect  économique et l'aspect éducatif du développement des peuples,
(18,3) Nous nous sommes aussi demandé quels sont les pays qui peuvent accorder une afde et  ceux qui doivent on bénéficior ; c'est là un point sur lequel il y auraît beaucoup à dire, De plus,  nous avons étudié la question de la compétence do l'Unesco à l'égard de divers problèmes, qui  sont du rossort de certaines autres Institutions spécialisées des Nations Unies et do différents  Oorganismon internationaux,
(18,4) Je mo permottral toutefois d'appoler votre attention sur une question extrêmement con-  crète, en me fondant sur quelques données qui, naturollement, ne sont pas dos secrets d'Etat,  Il existe uno rivalité évidente entre les peuples dits évolués lorsqu'il s'agit de venir en aide aux  pays qui, comme lo mien, n'ont pas atteint le même nivoau, Certains des orateurs qui m'ont  précédé A la tribune seront peut-être surpris par los chiffres sur lesquels je tiens à insister.  Les crédits quo l'industrie et le Gouvornement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique invostissent dans les  recherches ct lo développement technique ont augmenté de 16 % en moyenne depuis 1965 ;  l'année dornière, leur montant s’est élevé à plus de 22,000 millions de dollars,
(18,5) En revanche, les crédits que l'ensemble des pays européens ont affecté l'an dernier aux  recherches techniques n'ont pu dépassor 8,000 millions do dollars, Ainsi, la Grande-Bretagne,  la France et l'Allemagne ont consacré quelque 2,000 millions de dollars chacune au financement  de recherches d'ordre aclontifiquo et technique, En citant ces chiffres, je n'entends nullement  mettre en concurrence les Etats-Unis d'Amérique et los pays curopéens qui font partie de  l'OCDE ou qui pourront y adhérer,
(18,6) Il convient d'ailleurs de préciser quo si les investissements afférents à la recherche  scientifique sont aujourd'hui beaucoup plus faibles en Europe qu'aux Etats-Unis d'Amérique, ils  ont un rendement plus élevé : un dollar invest! en Europe produit le même résultat que 2, 2,5 ou
3 dollars investis aux Etats-Unis d'Amérique,
(18,7) En 1962, qui est l'annéo la plus récente pour laquelle nous disposions de bonnes statis-  tiques comparées, 5,000 millions de dollars ont été dépensés en Europe pour financer des re-  cherches scientifiques et techniques, contre quelque 17,300 millions de dollars aux Etats-Unis  d'Amérique, D'autre part, les investissements consacrés aux recherches représentent 3 % envi-  ron du produit national brut aux Etats-Unis d'Amérique au leu de 2 % seulement en Europe,
(18,8) L'Amérique latine, comme l'Europe, souffre d'un "exode des compétences" dont nous  avons déjà expliqué les causes, Il conviendrait donc que les nations les plus évoluées du point de  vue économique interviennent en vue d'éviter cet exode qui, comme je l'ai signalé, constitue  pour nos peuples une véritable perte de substance : en cinq ans seulement, 19,000 intellectuels  d'Amérique lat/ne ont quitté leur pays, On pourrait en dire autant des Etats européens et, sur-  tout des pays du centre de l'Europe, .
(18,0) Mais je r1e contenteraf maintenant de traitor la question suivante: les orateurs qui m'ont  précédé se sont demandé si l'Unesco est ou non en droit de participer à certaines études do ca-  ractère économique, ot s'il convient qu'elle le fasse. A cet égard, ma délégation a estimé que  le Conseil oxécuti? comme le Secrétariat et les dirigeants de l'Organisation doivent se montrer  très circonspects ; ils ne doivent pas approuver la création de nouveaux organismes dépendant
808   Sesiones plenarias / Ixenopuue 3acedanaa XXVII  de l'Unesco ni appfiquor de trop nombreux projets, surtout dans les domainos où 11 oxfste déjà  des organiames Internationaux ou des projets dont dos institutions appartonant au syatèmo dos  Nations Unies ont entrepris l'oxécution, Comme nous l'avons dit, mieux vaudrait on parell cas  que l'Unesco entre on relations avec cos organismes afin do coopéror avec eux pour éviter une  prolifération d'institutions internationales sans grande utilité pratique et qui constituent uno  lourde charge pour le budget de notre Organisation, It est done bien entendu que nous approuvons  le document 14 C/DR, 199 et son addendum, auquel nous donnons notre plein appul, De même,  nous approuvons sans restriction lo poragrapho 97 (relatif à l'Amérique latine) du rapport du  Directeur général sur la contribution do l'Unesco à la Déconnio du développement ot nous sommes  persuadés quo lo Contre régional latino-américain pour l'application de la science ot de la tech-  nologie au développement qui doit être créé en 1987, jonora un rôle très utile,
(18,10) Je tiens à conclure ces témoignages d'approbation en rovenant sur une question étran-  gère aux préoccupations et à la compétonce de l'Unesco : 11 s'agit des perturbations dont souffre  actuellement le monde entier en raison de l'instabilité du prix des matières premières, Ces prix  subissent des fluctuations considérables qui provoquent les graves inconvénients que l'on peut  imaginer, Lorsqu'en dix ans, le prix de nos produits s'abaisse d'un centième de "cent" (endollars  des Etats-Unis d'Amérique), 11 en résulte une porte d'argent et de ressources bien supérieure A  toute l'aide que nous avons pu recevoir des nations évoluées pendant cette brève période,
(18,11) Je répète que ce n'est pas là un problème qui relève de l'Unesco ; je crois cependant que  l'Organisation devrait être représentée aux conférences sur le développement ct le commerce  International lorsque ce problème est étudié ; car il ne saurait y avoir do stabilité dans les do-  maines moral, éducatif et politique tant que la stabilisation des prix ne sera pas assurée et tant  que le coût dos produits manufacturés en provenance des nations évoluées augmentera, pour  atteindre des niveaux de plus en plus inaccessibles.
(18,12) Il est triste de le constater, mais seuls les conflits armés améliorent la situation écono-  mique de nos pays en voie de développement, C'est là, naturellement, un état de choses déplo-  rable ; je crois que le jour où les pays évolués le comprendront et aideront les pays moins dévo-  loppés à résoudre les difficultés que soulève la vente de leurs produits, un immense progrès  sera accompli, pour le plus grand profit de l'éducation, de la science et do la culture, aussi  bion que de l'ensemble de l'économie mondiale.
19,1 [Ie PRESIDENT, -  Je vous remercie beaucoup, Monsieur l'Ambassadeur,
19,2 Mesdames ot Messieurs, la liste des orateurs se trouve ainsi épuisée et la discus-  sion est close, Ainsi que je vous l'avais annoncé à l'ouverture de la séance, je vais main-  tenant donner la parole aux auteurs des trois projets de résolution, afin qu'ils puissent ré-  pondre aux questions qui leur ont été posées et fournir les éclaireissements qu'ils jugeraient  nécessaires. Je vous rappelle que la Conférence générale estactuellement saisie de trois  projets de résolutfon qui p rtent les cotes 14 C/DR.113 Rev, 14 C/DR.199 etadd, et 14 C/DR, 204,  Le texte de ce dernier projet va être distribué incessamment, Il nous sera, de toute façon,  impossible de voter aujourd'hui sur ce dernier texte, que les délégations n'ont pas encore eu  le temps d'étudier,
10,3 D'autre part, plusieurs orateurs ont fait remarquer qu'il y a beaucoup de points de  ressemblance entre ces divers projets et c'est pourquoi je voudrais demander aux auteurs  de nous dire tout à l'heure, lorsqu'ils prendront la parole, s'ils sont prêts à mettre à pro-  fit le temps qui s'écoulera jusqu'à notre prochaine séance pour se rencontrer et s'efforcer  de mettre au point un texte unique sur lequel la Conférence puisse se prononcer demain,
19,4 Je donne d'abord la parole à M, Ramarosaona, au nom de la délégation de Madagascar,  qui est l'un des auteurs du projet 14 C/DR, 113 Rev.
20,1 M, RAMAROSAONA (Madagascar), -  Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président, de m'avoir donné la parole pour apporter  quelques éclaircissements et, peut-être, une mise au point, dans la mesure où je pourraf  le faire,
20,2 Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames, Messieurs les  délégués, les interventions qui se sont succédé hier et aujourd'hui à cette tribune sont,
809   XXVIII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  pour la délégation malgache, une sourco do satisfaction, jo diral même do réconfort, Fn  effet, lo Diroctour général ot los délégués du Brésil, dos Pays-Bas, do ln Yougoslavie,  des Etats-Unis, par oxemple, ont tous souligné avec insistance la nécossité d'accélérer lo  développement, Ils ont trouvé des mots porcutants - si j'oso dire - ot souvent émouvants  pour qualifier cotto nécessité.
20,3 On a parlé lci du défi quo notro siècle ae doit de relever, On a lancé dos oxpressions  commo "la courso que notre génération ne doit pas manquer", Ie Directeur général nous  a fait part de son souci de transformer "une partic que nous sommes an train de perdre on  une partie gagnéo", Je suis porsuadé, Monsieur lo Présidont, Mesdames et Mossiours les  délégués, que tout cela no pout pas âtre réduit à de simples slogans ou à des figures do  style grandiloquentos, Jo suis persuadé quo cette unanimité traduit la vérité essentiolle et  irréductible dont j'ai parté hier et qui est la "solidarité des hommes, mais aussi et sur-  tout la solidarité des problèmes",
20,4 Cette unanimité une fois admise, laquestion est de savoir - pour reprendre l'heureuse  expression du délégué des Etats-Unis - "Comment passer des paroles aux actes" ou, comme  le disait tout & l'heure le délégué du Royaume-Uni, "Comment bâtir pierre à pierre et non  comment jeter la pierre",
20,5 Ie projet de résolution 14 C/DR, 113 Rev, que nous vous présentons, Mesdames,  Messieurs, vise simploment à faire admettre le principe suivant : l'aide internationale est,  en définitive, une expérience nouvelle et inédite dans les relations internationales, Par  conséquent, cette expérience est forcément tätonnante, Mais, au fur et à mesure qu'elle se  développe, apparaissent los obstacles et les difficultés qui rendont parfois inopérants les  mécanismes de cette aide, Nous avons pensé que le problème des controparties nationales  représente l'un de ces obstacles et l'une de ces difficultés,
20,6 Cela étant, venons-en maintenant aux objoctions qui ont été soulevées à cette tribune.  J'en retiendrai surtout deux,
20,7 D'abord, on a dit que les projets de résolution présentés - le 14 C/DR, 113 Rev, aussi  bien que le 14 C/DR, 199 - ne sont pas du ressort de la Conférence générale de notre Orga-  nisation, mals devraient être présentés directement aux instances compétentes des Nations  Unies. On a dil aussi que l'adoption de ces projets pourrait être interprétée comme un  manque de confiance de notre Organisation à l'égard de ces instances internationales,
20,8 Nous sommes, Monsieur le Président, en présence de deux projets : le premier, le
14 C/DR, 199, présenté par l'Inde et signé par 52.pays, s'efforce d'établir une évaluation  aussi exacte que possible de ce qui a été réalisé jusqu'à maintenant dans lo cadre de la Dé-  cennie des Nations Unies pour le développement, Dans lo dispositif, un appel est lancé aux  Etats membres pour les inviter à fournir davantage d'efforts en vue d'atteindre les objectifs  fixés et, de mêmo, l'aide du Directeur général est sollicitée pour épauler ces efforts dans  un cortain nombre de domaines précis, L'autre projet, lo 14 C/DR,113 Rev,, traite d'un  problème - je le reconnais - beaucoup plus particulier et concret, mais que rencontrent à  tous moments tous les pays en vole de développement dans les efforts qu'ils font pour ga-  gner la course que leur propose la Décennie du développement,
20,9 Ie point 11 de notre ordre du jour a trait à "la contribution de l'Unesco à la réalisa-  tion des fins et des objectifs de la Décennie des Nations Unies pour le développement”, Il  nous paraft donc normal que, devant les obstacles et les difficultés qui nous empôchent de  gagner ensemble le pari du développement, nous examinions les problèmes que suscite la  réalisation des programmes lancés ou appuyés par notre Organisation, Nous avons égale-  ment, je pense, A présenter des propositions pour répondre notamment ainsi au Conseil  économique et social, qui a invité"les institutions intéressées des Nations Unies à procéder  à un examen critique de leurs programmes, de leurs pratiques et de leurs procédures, y  compris les srrangements intororganisations" (résolution 1152, adoptée par lo Conseil  économique ct social à sa quarante et unième session),
20,10 Dans lo fond, c'est un voou quo nous exprimons dans ce projet de résolution
(14 C/DR, 113 Rev,) : commo nous l'indiquons dans le premier paragraphe du dispositif,  nous désirerions que le Directeur général se fasso notro intorprèto auprès des instances  internationales compétentes pour obtonir que les règlos du Programmo des Nations Unies  pour le développement solent assouplios en ce qui concerne les contributions des pays béné-  ficlaires ot que, si possible, les ressources de ces programmes solent accrues, Cela  n'empôche d'ailleurs pas que nos pays alent l'intention de soulever directoment le même  problèmo, en temps opportun ot en d'autres Ueux, auprès des autres instances des Nations  Unies ; jo suin porsuadé qu'ils le feront,
20,11 Enfin, Monsieur le Président, je voudrais relevor une autre romarque qui a été  faite, Si nous l'avons bien comprise, l'aide accordée à un Etat pour la réalisation d'un pro-  jet de développement suppose, de la part de cet Etat, la volonté de réussir et lo sérieux  dans l'effort - cetto volonté ot ce sérieux constituant ainsi la meilleure garantie que l'Etat  puisse offrir,
20,12 En ce qui nous concerne, cette question ne se pose même pas, la participation à un  projet de développement d'un Etat hénéficfaire d'une aide est, pour nous, une condition sine  qua non, Ia volonté et le sérieux dans l'effort fait pour so dévolopper sont deux postulats  préalables A toute aide et à toute coopération internationale : on ne doit pas aider un Etat  qui ne veut pas s'aider,
20,13 Notre projet do résolution vise simplement à concevoir et à imaginer des modalités  d'assouplissoment et d'aménagement des contreparties nationales, Ces modalités doivent  faire ~nous le soulignons - l'objet d'études et de recherches qui s'inscrivent dans un cadre  général, Nous pensons, en effet, que ce problème est géneral et concerne à la fois les  Etats qui fournissent l'aide et les Etats qui la roçoivent, Et c'est la raison pour laquelle,  Monsieur le Président, nous avons soumis le projot de résolution 14 C/DR,113 Rev, à  l'examen de la Conférence générale,
21, Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercic M, Ramarosaona et je donne la parole à M, Thapar, délégué de l'Inde, qui  est l'un des auteurs du projet de résolution 14 C/DR, 199,
22,1 Mr, THAPAR (India):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Development Decade draft  resolutions has been most instructive. We are happy to note that there is a great degree  of unanimity on the draft resolution submitted by my delegation along with many others,  but certain voices have been raised to question various aspects of the texts before us, And,  as always, interested in unanimity, I thought the Indian delegation should attempt to clear  up some of the misunderstandings which have been created in the course of the debate.
22.2 We aredealing here with a resolution, and I would like tostate this very categorically,  which deals with the spirit and the soul of the overwhelming majority of mankind. It is  this spirit which motivates all development, and if this spirit is destroyed or eroded or de-  moralized by pruning down or reducing the content of this resolution, I am afraid develop-  ment itself will suffer.
22,3 We spent long hours with a large number of delegations trying to work out a resolu-  tion that would not give offence to anyone in the General Conference. Long hours were  spent on this, The intention behind our resolution was certainly not to shout, much less  to throw bricks. I can assure you, that everyone was convinced that it was necessary,  within the family of Unesco, to find the terminology which would unite us and help us make  Unesco! s rôle in development very much more effective.
22,4 Lord Ritchie-Calder talks of change taking place. Yes, but at what speed? And, it  is no fault of the developing world that the speed is slow. This part of the world - two-  thirds of mankind - was for some 200 years, as the distinguished delegate of the United
811   XXVIII Plenary meetings /Séances plénières  Arab Republic reminded us, the provider of tho surplus which helped to launch the indust-  rial revolution in Europe. Communicators and scientists should not forget this central  fact which 18 vory firmly planted in the mind of the developing world - for when Asia,  Africa and Latin America look at aid, they often consciously somotimes, unconsciously  at other times, and not without reason, see it as a debt repaid or being repaid. And wo,  as enlightened educators, for this is what we are, should remember that this is the con-  aclouaness on which Uneaco begins its activities, You or I may hold different opinions  ag to what is behind aid, what motivates aid, what was the past, how we interpret it, but  by and large it is our duty as educators, as practical men, to understand the complexity  of this situation whore aid is seen as a debt repaid and where any attempt to see it other-  wise or to project another type of image for it, is to destroy the very spirit upon which  development is based,
22.5 Talk of the massive problem and its growing massivity in terms of mouths to feed  should not blind us to other facts. The effort being put into development by the people  and governments of the developing countrien - this needs stressing in the speeches we  often hear, which always ignore such efforts. We are not here as supplicants. There  is a philosophy behind the Development Decade, and it is necessary always, I feel, and  my delegation together with the 52 nations inall who have signed our resolution, feel also,  that it is necessary to project this philosophy so that the entire meaning of the Develop-  ment Decade, being within Unesco's competence, becomes understandable.
22.6 In India, for example, independence meant not that we sat back when the tricolour  was unfurled to think of all the problems and rue the day of independence. Independence  meant that we could utilize our resources for our own development; 83% of our invest-  ment in the last twenty years in our development is our own. It is a fact which ia notre-  corded in the pross of the world, and very often the demoralization is so extreme that it  is a fact which is not recorded in our own press in India. Eleven per cent is loan, and  you have heard the distinguished delegate of the Soviet Union desaribe the payments made  on such loans - only 6% is aid.
22.7 This indigenous effort has continued despite the collective offort of advanced induat-  rial nations to raise the price of manufactured goods faster than the price of raw materials,  which these nations take from the developing world, Several delegates from the developing  world have drawn your attention to this, This we see, in the developing world, as a new  form of exploitation. And I am surprised again that Lord Ritehie-Calder fails to see this  side of the picture. We demand funds for the Development Decade through the United Na-  tions family of nations, because this is our only chance to get the surplus for our develop-  ment without having to surrender - and I repeat-it - without having to surrender to the em-  barrassing financial conditions imposed by other forma of aid, often advanced by the captains  of private industry, in advanced countries - practices, which within our own experience are  destroying the reviving spirit of our nations. We are not impressed by arguments that  this is only a matter of skill and expertise and that development is best served by the pro-  vision of these inputs only. This is an extraordinary simplification, sophisticated to the  extreme in the context of our experience, These were the arguments offered when we in  India sought to increase steel production in our country, Our steel production prograrnme  was dismissed as foolhardy by some of the world's leading experts in the field of steel.  It proved otherwise. We are now in a position to double steel production, within ten years,  with our own technicians growing with the steel plants as they rise. I will not repeat the  story about the best way to learn to swim, It is too obvious,
22.8 We acknowledge assistance, we play it across the front pages of our newspapers, but  we continue to maintain that more has to be done if our world is not to be dangerously pio-  larized between those who have and those who have not. It is an old cliché but itis more  relevant today than ever before: tho fact that sticks in our minds is that 150,000 million  dollars are invested in war by those same persons who have in the past lectured ua on eco-  nomic planning and priorities. Planning was born in our underdeveloped conditions,  Those who lectured us learned their lessons from'us ~ whether planning for a day, for a
812   Sesiones plenarias / ffaenapuue Jacevanua XXVILI  lite -time or forever. And this experience has taught us that we have to popularize and  project another lesson < that this world will remain at peace only if massive efforts are  - made to make a success of the Development Decade - not one, but many many decades - and  through the United Nations and its Agencies. And this explains to you, fellow delegates,  why in our long discussions on our resolution we did make the resolution long, We had  many introductory clauses because we did not want the spirit of our approach to be con-  fused. Development lies within the scope of Unesco. For development cannot be sepa-  rated from the tasks which Unesco performs. Any one of us who has sat through Sub-  Commission I and Sub-Commission IT of the Programme Commission does not need to be  shown how Unesco comes to play a rôle in development, In fact the entire discussion  over the last threa weeks has done nothing else but link every plan to development, and  here there have been spceches made which say that the Development Decade is not within  the competence of Unesco,
22,8 I do hope that the distinguished delegates who are hesitant to support our resolution  will study its operative paragraphs, because these operative paragraphs make clear what  Unesco! 8s rôle is within the Development Decade, On our part we shall remain firmly op-  posed to any attempts to reduce Unesco's rôle in the Development Decade. We plan  Mr. President, to get together with all those who have advanced resolutions and to take your  advice and produce a single draft to place before the plenary session of the General Con-  ference. And on the part of the Indian delegation, and I feel on the part of many of those  who have signed with us, may I! say that we should like to accept the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republic! 8 amendment,
23.1 Le PRESIDENT:  I thank you very much Mr. Thapar for your brilliant and constructive explanation.
23,2 Je donne la parole à l'auteur du projet 14 C/DR, 204, S, Exe, M, Chagas, délégué du  Brésil.
24,1 M, CHAGAS (Brésil), -  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur lo Président du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le  Directeur général, je pense pouvoir être très bref, J'aimerais d'abord dire qu'il y a une  petite erreur dans la version française du projet de résolution 14 C/DR, 204 présenté par  la délégation du Brésil : à l'avant-dernière ligne, il faut lire "humanisme du développement"  et non pas "humanité du développement", Dans la version espagnole, cette erreur est  corrigéo, -
24,2 Mesdames, Messicurs les délégués, je tions à dire que je me sens gêné d'être seul  ici pour présenter un projet de résolution, alors que le projet do résolution 14 C/DR, 113  Rev, a été présenté par 7 délégations, et le projot de résolution 14 C/DR,199 par 52,  Je me sens donc un peu isolé dans ce débat, et j'aimerais seulement souligner quelques  points que j'estime importants.
24,3 Il faut d'abord savoir que le projet de résolution présenté par la délégation du Brésil  est le fruit de trois considérations, La première, c'est que nous avons essayé de nous li-  miter au document 14 C/10, dont nous avons fait l'analyse et où nous avons essayé d'intro-  duiro quelques modifications - disons quelques apports - résultant des observations que  nous avaient inspirées les travaux de la Commission du programme,
24,4 En deuxième liou, nous avons essayé, lo plus possible, de faire bénéficier ce projet  de résolution du travail réalisé par le Comité consultatif des Nations Unies sur l'applica-  tion de la science et de la technique au dévoloppement, parce que nous pensons que le rôle  de coordination de ce Comité ost très important, et que l'Unesco lui a défà apporté uno  contribution extrêmement appréciable.
24,5 lin troisième lieu, je pense que je n'ai pas besoin de répéter ici que nous souscrivons  aux arguments en faveur d'une action concertée, dnns le cadre de la Décennie des Nations
813   XXVIII Plenary meetings /Séances plénières  Unies pour lo développement, do tollo sorte qu'un offort considérable permotte de comblor  lo fossé qui géparo encore les pays on voio de développement des pays dévoloppés. Il nous  a donc paru nécossaire de répétor, dans les considérants du projet de résolution
14 C/DR, 204 los arguments que j'ai exposés à cette tribune ot dans beaucoup d'autres occa-  sions, Je pense qu'il ne peut pas y avoir de doute quant à l'intérêt do notre pays, ot de  l'Amérique latine, on général, à s'associer au mouvement qui vise À accroftro au maximum  la contribution au développement,
24,6 Dans la partie opérative de notre projet de résolution, nous avons essayé d'aller un  peu plus loin en fixant quelques méthodes opérationnelles que je crois importantes, Par  exemple, pour ce qui est de la nécossité de prévoir ou d'exarcer une coertaine pression sur  lo Fonds spécial, dont J'ai parlé à cette tribune même, afin qu'il assouplisse sa politique  d'octroi de crédits pour l'exécution de projets Unesco, nous répondons directement À une  question qui a été soulevée ici par le Directeur général, et que nous trouvons très impor-  tante : comment obtenir des fonds pour les programmes d'enseignement scientifique aux  degrés primaire, socondaire et supérieur ? Je crois que, si nous ouvrons cette brèche  dans la véritable muraille devant laquelle nous nous trouvons placés, nous aurons déjà fait  un grand progrès,
24,7 Bion plus, dans le projet do résolution 14 C/DR, 204, nous avons posé lo principe  d'un Projet majeur d'éducation scientifique, qui n'est pas présenté avec cotte précision dans  le document 14 C/10,
24,8 La partie opérative de co projet n'est d'ailleurs que très peu différente de celle du  projet de résolution 14 C/DR, 199, présenté par 52 pays, Nous allons seulement plus loin  que les conuteurs de ce projet en demandant à la Conférence générale de renforcer à cer-  tains égards l'activité de l'Unesco, dans le cadre de la Décennie des Nations Unies pour le  développement,
24,9 Mais il y a, dans notre projet, un point que je considère comme très important et qui,  s'il est pris en considération, rendra le travail opérationnel de l'Unesco plus facile cet  même plus rapide, C'est le point qui est libellé comme suit : ‘Invite le Directeur général  à réaliser l'analyse opérationnelle (le mot "analyse" étant pris dans le sens critique, parce  que, bien qu'étant actuellement Président du Comité consultatif, je crois que le Plan d'action  que ce Comité a proposé doit être critiqué), budgétaire et prospoctive du "Plan d'action"  proposé par le Comité consultatif sur l'application de la science et de la technologie au dé-  veloppement et à collaborer à l'oeuvre de ce Comité, dans la mesure où elle se conjugue  avec l'activité propre de l'Unesco".
24,10 Beaucoup des sujets qui sont évoqués dans notre projet de résolution et dans celui  qui a été présenté par l'Inde font partie intégrante du Plan d'action du Comité consultatif,  Tel est le cas de l'évaluation régulière des systèmes d'éducation, C'est une tâche que le  Comité a déjà demandé à l'Unesco d'ontreprendre ot le Directeur général a invité les orga-  nismes compétents à siéger ici, au mois d'octobre 1967, afin de procéder à une évaluation  des problèmes d'éducation, notamment des problèmes d'éducation scientifique. Le Comité  a demandé aussi - et ce point a été traité par S. Exc. le chef de la délégation d'El Salvador -  une enquête sur la très importante question de l'exode des compétences des pays en voie  de développement, parce que c'est encore là un problème qu'il est extrêmement urgent de  résoudre,
24,11 La rédaction de la partie opérative du projet de résolution 14 C/DR, 199 présenté par  l'Inde cofncide presque partout avec celle du projet du Brésil, mais co dernier contient  quelque chose do plus ¢ la référence au Plan d'action proposé par la Comité consultatif,  d'abord, et enspite, une précision do détail que nous considérons comme utile même pour  l'orientation de l'action du Directour général, Nous avons abandonné dans notre projet de  résolution 1l'e‘thortation aux Etats mombres, Non quo nous la juglons sans intérêt, mals  parce que nous avions surtout en vue le document 14 C/10 ; c'est à ce document quo  s'adresse le projet de résolution présenté par le Brésil.
24,12 J'aimorals maintenant, Monsiour lo Président, dire quelques mots au sujot du pro-  jet de résolution 14 C/DR, 113 Rev, Je ponso que co projet a été mal interprété tel, En fait,  il ne contient pas un soul mot qui aillo à l'encontre de la participation des pays en voie do  développement, de leur effort national, Nous savons que le développement est avant tout un  état d'esprit, Et los nations qui n'ont pas cet état d'esprit soront incapables de réalisor  leur développement, C'est parfois une révolution, parfois l'action énergique de certains  leaders qui crée cot état d'esprit, mals il faut qu'il soft créé pour que le développement  ait leu,
24,13 Ta participation nationale est done indispensable, et l'aide internationale ou l'effort  de l'Unesco ne doivent viser qu'à éveiller cet état d'esprit, à encourager cette participa-  tion nationale, Or je ne vois aucun mot, dans le projet de résolution 14 C/DR,113Rev, , qui  dise que cet état d'esprit ne doit pas exister,
24,14 Je suis tout À fait d'accord avec ce qui est demandé, dans le dernier paragraphe de  ce projet : il s'agit là d'une autre brèche qu'on pourrait ouvrir dans la muraille des insti-  tutions de financement, Mais la bataillo est difficile à livrer, peut-être plus difficile que  celle dont il est question dans notre projet de résolution, Ce que nous demandons, c'est  simplement que le Fonds spécial admette dans ses prévisions, des projets d'enseignement  scientifique et de recherche fondamentale, Cependant, 1l y a tout de même une initiative  qui doit être prise, et je pense qu'il appartient à la Conférence générale d'en décider,
24,15 Te paragraphe précédent du projet de résolution 14 C/DR, 113 Rev, est aussi inclus  dans le projet de résolution 14 C/DR,204, mais sous une forme différente : quand nous de-  mandons, explicitement, que des crédits soient fournis par le Fonds spécial, en vue d'un  Projet majeur d'éducation scientifique, il s'agit bien de la même chose, c'est-à-dire de  l'assouplissement dont j'ai parlé ici même, dans mon intervention.
24,16 Je désire vivement, Monsieur le Président, que la Conférence générale puisse  aboutir à un projet de résolution qui soit vraiment opérationnel, Je crois que toutes nos  difficultés se résument aux considérants et qu'on peut arriver très facilement à un accord  sur la rédaction de la partie opérative des trois projets de résolution qui nous sont sou-  mis, de telle sorte que les indications précises que nous souhaitons voir approuver le  solent par la Conférence générale. Je crois même qu'il est indispensable que cela se fasse:  dans lo cas présent, l'unanimité me paraît essentielle, Il ne faut pas oublier, en effet, que  nous sommes en train de jouer avec le destin de l'humanité, Et je crois que nous devons  tous, quelles que soient notre origine géographique ou les structures sociales de nos pays,  nous associer en vue de mener cet effort à bien,
25,1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Merci, Monsieur l'Ambassadeur.
25,2 Je remercie les auteurs des trois projets des éclaircissements et explications qu'ils  nous ont fournis, Je suis de plus en plus convaincu qu'il doit être possible de rapprocher  ces trois textes ot j'invite donc Jes représentants des trois groupes de pays à se réunir, à  l'issue de cette séance, ot à n'épargner aucun effort pour revenir ici demain avec un texte  unique,
25,3 Si aucune objection n'est formulée, je considérerai, Mesdames, Messieurs, que vous  acceptez cette manière de procéder.
25,4 La séance ost levée,  The meeting rose at 6,40 p.m,  La séance est levée à 18 h, 40  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 18,40
3acexWaHHe IAKpHBAO®TCH B 184. 40 M.