28 October 1066, at 11.20 a.m,  President: Mr. Bedrettin TUNCEL (Turkey)!  SEPTIÈME SÉANCE PLÉNIÈRE
28 octobre 1966, à 11 h, 20  Président : M, Beadrettin TUNCEL (Turquie)  SÉPTIMA SESION PLENARIA
28 okTa6pa 1966 r, B 114, 20M,  lIpeacenarens: P-n Beapertun TYHUEJIL (Typunsa)  CONSIDERATION OF THE FOURTH SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF  THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE  EXAMEN DU QUATRIEME RAPPORT SUPPI.EMENTAIRE DU PRESIDENT DU COMITE DE:  VERIFICATION DES POUVOIRS  EXAMEN DEL CUARTO INFORME SUPLEMENTARIO DEL PRESIDENTE DEL COMITE DE  VERIFICACION DE PODERES  PACCMOTPEHHE YETBEPTOTO IOTMOHHHTEJBHOTO MOKJANA NPEJICERATEJS  KOMHTETA TIO NPOBEPKE TIOJIHOMOYHH
1,1 Le PRESIDENT, -  La septième séance plénière est ouverte,
1,2 Avant de poursuivre le débat général, je donne la parole à S, Exc, M, Dell'Oro Maini,  président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs, qui va présenter à la Conférence géné-  rale un nouveau rapport supplémentaire sur les pouvoirs de plusieurs délégations.
(2) Mr. DELL'ORO MAINI (Argentina), Chairman of the Credentials Committee (Translation  from the Spanish):  As authorized by the Credentials Committee, I have pleasure in reporting that four countries  whose representatives have been provisionally accepted in re have fulfilled the requirements laid  down in the Rules of Procedure as regards regularizing their re vesentation. These countries,  which have now presented credentials in due and proper form, aix Bulgaria, Finland, Kenya and  Thailand.
155   VII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
3, Le PRESIDENT, -  Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, vous avez entendu le quatrième rapport supplé-  mentaire du Président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs, S'il n'y a pas d'objection,  je considérerai que ce rapport est approuvé par votre assemblée,  GENERAL DEBATE (continued)/DEBAT GENERAL (suite)/DEBATE GENERAL (continua-  cién)/OBIIASL MHCKYCCHS (npononxenne)
4,1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Nous allons reprendre maintenant le débat général,
4,2 S, Exc, M, Carlos Maria Gelly y Obes, secrétaire d'Etat à la culture et à l'éducation,  chef de lu délégation de la République argentine, a la parole,
157   vit Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
161   vu Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
(5.1) Mr. GELLY Y OBES (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish);  Mr. President, fellow delegates, it fs a great honour for me to have this opportunity of speak-  ing on behalf of the Argentine Government at the fourteenth session of the General Conference of  Unes.:o, which constitutes another landmark in the progress of the Organization. Unesco, by en-  larging its possibilities and extending the area of {ts coverage, has brought the world closer to  achieving the noble objective of raising the level of man's intelligence, transforming it into an  instrument of peace, understanding and mutual assistance. My government is in full accord with  that superlative objective, and reaffirms its support for so worthy an aim.
(5.2) First of all, my country, 1 am happy to state, has noted with great interest and approval  the Draft Programme and Budget for 1967-1868. It is undoubtedly the product of a great collab-  orative effort atthe various levels in which due recognition should be given to the ability and ex-  perience shown by the Director-General in interpreting the recommendations of the last session  of the General Conference and the decisions of the Executive Board.
(5.3) The document before us is an outstanding work of synthesis but it is not merely - and this  is as it should be - a collection of plans, projects and budgetary estimates: it is also inspired by  a deep intellectual concept which finds its source in the Constitution of Unesco and the Universal  Declaration of Human Nights. This is a cause for congratulation, for by these means the inde-  feasible aims of Unesco are achleved - aims which inform the whole of its activities and find their  realization in the strengthening of peace, the safeguarding of security and the raising of the living  standards of mankind. In this way, the General Conferenceacquiresa profound moral significance  through a dialogue in which men resolve their differences and embark together upoa concrete  achievements, following the path first traced out by the San Francisco Charter which gave birth  to the United Nations.
(5.4) At a time when the world's leading personalities have expressed their desire for peaceand  equality, for education and the harmonious development of all the resources of science in the ser-  vice of society; when from the chair of St. Peter, PaulVIchampionsthe struggle against illiteracy  and shows the way by his own example and utterances, this Conference assumes one of the greatest  and most solemn of responsibilities - an historic responsibility; and with the lapse of twenty years  since the creation of Unesco, it already has the means to exert the necessary Influence on the  minds of governments and peoples.
(5.5) In this respect, we recall the words pronounced by the Director-General at the closing ses-  sion of the fourth Conference of the Canadian National Commission for Unesco. He said that the  basic eiement, in the task of raising world living standards, was to think in terms of man, adding  that development was not an end in itself but a means whereby man could fulfil his destiny and re-  alize himself. The problem was not to develop a country but to develop its people. Development  should serve man, not man development. And he rounded off this great thought with the statement -  in our view fundamental - that economics must be made to serve justice and dignity.
(5.6) The Argentine National Commission for Unesco, one which, as Secretary for Culture and  Education, I preside, has studied document 14 C/5 through its competent bodies and found it an  excellent and reliable working instrument. 1 should like to single out briefly some of its salient  aspects in the light of Argentinian experience. 1shallbeginbyassociating myself with the Director -  General's concern to ensure a greater concentration of effort in the execution both of the Regular  programme of the Organization and of the United Nations Development Programme. Althoughthis  is a matter in which the decisions taken are usually highly political, I believe that all possible
162   Sesiones plenarias / lten puèie 3aceoauva vil  measures Fnould be taken to ensure proper co-ordination in all fields; accordingly, I would urge  not only the General Conference but also the Member States to unify their procedures and in this  way to facilitate the work of the United Nations and of Unesco.
(5.7) Likewise with a view to Improving co-ordination, the relations between Unesco and regional  institutes, centres, offices and associated institutions should be studied andthe statutory relations  with the International Institute of Educational Planning revised. Since the General Conference is  the supreme body of Unesco, it follows that the institutes which come directly or indirectlyunder  it must, without prejudice to their intellectual autonomy, adapt their terms of reference to our  recommendations and work plans. I realize that this fs a difficult task. Nevertheless, Iconsider  this point essential if progress fs to be achieved in the crucial sphere of Unesco’ sa operatfonalefl-  ficiency.
(5.8) With regard to the execution of the programme, I agree with what the document says tothe  effect that financial resources alone are not enough, and that the existence of adequate admini-  strative machinery and the requisite political and intellectual support from Member States are  equally necessary. Iam particularly concerned with the phase of operational execution, the im-  plementation of the theoretical directives of the programme. And in order, specifically not to  arouse expectations that cannot be fulfilled, Unesco should clearly define its responsibilities.  On the other hand, to ensure that creative work is done and that the new ideas resulting from the  exercise of human ingenuity are translated into fact, I consider that the Office of the Director-  General should be provided, at the planning level, with flexible and effective resources, in con-  sultation with governments, individuals and non-governmental organizations in a position to col-  laborate in a joint effort of this kind.
(5.9) My government has given deep thought to the method by which the draft programme and bud-  get are prepared. In my view, the efforts required of the Office of the Director-General, namely  spending 14 months out of a financial period of 24 months on the preparation of the future pro-  gramme, are both too arduous and too prolonged. To some extent, this limits the capacity ofthe  Office of the Director-General to carry out properly the tusks set by the General Conference. 1  have no desire to enlarge, of course, on the inevitable gap between ideas and their implementa -  tion; nevertheless, I think that in this respect we may reasonably hope - and indeed are entitled  to hope - for a more sustained and continuous effort if we are to achieve concrete results. For  this reason, my delegation will vote in favour of any resolution calculated to expedite operations  and permit results. I should therefore like to take this opportunity of expressing my endorsement  of the sound principles applied by the Office of the Director-General in its approach to questions  of active administration.
(5.10) We also welcome the proposed new principles for the economic evaluation of financial  periods, and the emphasis on maintaining over a relatively long period the system of priorities  within the principal sectors, thereby assuring that real priority is given. To demonstrate the  seriousness of my government's attitude, I should like to point out that, however limited this  offer may seem, my country has decided to double the number of fellowships under the Argentine -  Unesco plan for 1967-1968.
(5.11) We consider appropriate the proposed structure of the Secretariat and the priorities es-  tablished within the various sectors, as evidenced by the significant figure of $37 millionallocated  to the Education Chapter. Although this sum is insufficient to meet all requirements, it shows  the trend in the distribution of funds, particularly in a sphere in which extra-budgetary assistance  is more readily obtained.
(5.12) I should like to lay special stress on my government's interest in integrated educational  planning, educational recearch, school building and the concept of life-long continuing education  carried out at various stages, both in and out of school. We are committed to the accomplish-  ment of this task, surely, without haste and without making any undue claims. We are mindful  of the recommendations of the previous General Conference and of the Conference of Ministers  of Education and Minioters responsible for Economic Planning in Latin America and the Carib-  bean, held in Buenos Aires in June 1866, and also of the official statements on educational plan-  ning made by my government. Simply in order to demonstrate our firm resolve, and not as a  rhetorical statement, I should like to inform the General Conference that my government wishes  to bring about as rapidly and effectively as possible the installation in Argentina ofa regional cen-  tre for educational research. In line with this educational policy, the State Secretariat for which  I am responsible has proposed the establishment of a Department of Integrated Educational Plan-  ning and taken the necessary steps to join the Regional School Building Centre for Latin America.  It has also given firm support to the project to set up a documentation and information centre for  voluntary youth services.
163   vi Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
(5.13) To exemplify the guiding principles followed by the educational authorities in Argentina in  solving the long-standing problem of lack of co-ordination and Maison between the various scho-  lastic levels and cycles, I should like to mention the rgrecrmuent concluded two days before my de-  parture between the primary, technical and secondary school authorities in my country. These  agreements will enable pupils to take the entrance examination to secondary schools within the  framework of an integrated system and with the participation of all the educators who, directly or  indirectly, have to do with this diff{cult and special occasion in the pupil! a life.
(5.14) It is gratifying to be able to mention that I have just returned from Madrid, where my  government joined the Ibero-American Bureau of Education, thus strengthening the links of his-  tory and destiny which the countries of Latin America have been forging for more thana century-  and-a-half of independence. Work has just started, in Madrid, on the Colegio Mayor Nuestra  Scñora de Lujén, at the University City, which is intended for Argentinian students there. To-  gether with the institution that has already been set up in that city, in which we recelved so warm  a welcome, it symbolizes my country's determination to provide facilities for Argentinian and  other Latin American students to enter into direct contact with peoples whose cultural influence
(5.15) I consider that science policy planning programmes and studies on the application of sci-  ence to development are extremely valuable and will have a definite and direct impact. 1 should  lixe to remind the Conference of the conclusions of the meeting on Science Policy Planning in La-  tin America, which Unesco organized fn Buenos Aires in July 1966. Today, no educational policy  san exist if it {8 not based on scientific progress, and no scientific planning is validunless it takes  the country's situation into account. In this field new techniques and ideas abound. Argentina,  for example, is sharply aware of the imperative and urgent need to promote studies and work on  water and its utilization, a matter of critical importance at the present time. My government  has accordingly decided to exploit to the ful! the country's rich and varied hydrological resources  with the aid of modern methods, as one of the basic factors for social and economic development.  In this connexion, the establishment of the National Centre for Hydrographical and Applied Hydro-  logicai Research, to be set up by the competent government department with funds provided by  the United Nations Special Fund, is in our view of inestimable value. The investment of these  funds has already been approved, and Unesco will be the Executing Agency for the project. As  a further example of my country's policy in this regard, I should like to mention that it has al-  ready allocated funds and a plot of 300 acres of land to the centre. My government also views  with great interest the work of the International Committee of the Hydrological Decade, and is  ready to offer to have the suggested Latin American meeting on this subject held in 1967 in  Argentina.
(5.16) One effort which we consider to have reached a successful outcome is the symposium  which has just taken place at Mar del Plata on the task of universities and oriental research in-  stitutes in Latin America. I would urge the Conference to make a decision in pursuance of the  symposium’ s recommendations by setting up a centre for co-ordinating those studies in our re-  gion. We are proud, after ten years of the Major Project adopted in New Delhi, to have suc-  ceeded In our country in laying the foundations for co-ordinating oriental studies in Latin America  at the university level and to have formulated, in particular, a plan which will continue the am-  bitious project which is now coming to an end. The Museum of Oriental Art, located in Buenos  Aires, which came into being on the eve of the symposium, will surely develop - such is my  government's hope - as the result of the latter.
(5.17) Mindful of the unfailing support which should be given to the conservation, dissemination  and advancement of culture, we note the importance - especially among the newly emergent coun-  tries - attaching to the conservation of the cultural heritage in its archaeological, historical and  artistic manifestations. For this reason, we are keenly interested in the possibility of organiz-  ing seminars in our region on museology and on the restoration and conservation of the cultural  heritage, as a contribution towards the proper and essential training of technicians and the fruit-  ful exchange of experts. Our look towards the past - a living past, even in these evidences of it -  is of necessity coupled with my government's forward-looking concern with the social communi-  cation media so characteristic of our modern age and which, by channelling ideas, information  and images, help to bring men closer together and hence to prepare to meet the future. Specially  emphasizing this concern, encouraged by the amazing level of technical development achieved by  all these media in my South American country, I should like to propose in very clear and formal  terms that a seminar be held in our capital city on the nature, aims and organization of tele-  vision in the service of education, science and culture. Reiterating this concern, this necessity  and this desire, I can confidently assure you of the collaboration of the State and of the private  undertakings in our country which are connected with the press, radio, cinema and television.
(5.18) As an example of co-ordination with the work of the government in the field of cultural  activities, I might mention the happy initiative of the Argentine Mozarteum, whose efforts have  made possible the acquisition of a studio in the Cité des Arts, in Paris, thereby affirming, as a  preliminary measure, the future presence of Latin America in that city.
(5.19) Our support for Unesco is evidenced in the backing we give to the National Commissions  and to the importance we attach to them. I therefore urge the Conference to give carefulthought  to the assistance which Unesco gives the Commissions, in the hope that it would even be found  possible to measure this collaboration in terms of a fixed percentage of the Organization's total  budget, in the Increasing grant of essential contracts, and intheir dissemination; in the four of-  ficial languages, of the recommendations of the conferences which the Commissions organize.
(5.20) We advance an argument of the same nature when we stress the advantages of expanding  the programme of subventions to the main non-governmental organizations, such as ICOM, with  which I am closely connected as Chairman of its Argentinian Committee, IMC, IAPA, ICSU, etc.
(5.21) I would also mention my government's intention to accede to and ratify the Unesco con-  ventions and recommendations to which it has not yet subscribed, I hope that in this way my  country and the international community in general will be equipped with facilities for fruitful in-  tellectual communication, as the key requisite for international understanding and co-operation.
(5.22) As my fellow delegates will have noted, I have deliberately and repeatedly stressed our  desire for concrete results. I have not come here, ladies and gentlemen, conscious of the high  standing of this Conference, to list my country's projects and activities and the benefits it has  reaped from them. Neither did I wish to indulge in empty statements. Taking a realistic stand,  in line with the spirit of Unesco, my country's desire was to provide positive evidence of its in-  ternational solidarity and an educational and social policy of the highest calibre.
(5.23) The President of the Republic, defining the essential objectives of the nation as regards  culture, science and education, made the following statement: "The government attaches funda-  mental importance to forecasts and practical achievements in the field of culture and education.  It will be its continuing concern to bring about a constant improvement, at all levels, in the work  of spreading culture and education among the people. It takes action accordingly, ensuring, with-  in the limits of its possibilities, that no one is deprived of education through lack of economic re-  sources, and that everyone, even the least able, is guaranteed a training which ensures his inte-  gration in productive society, and his further training after completing his school education. The  necessary financial means will need to be obtained from charges fixed on a rational basis and  from fiscal resources.  Whatever relates to the general culture of the population forms the essentfal basis for the  country's spiritual development. That sector, like education, will be able to count on the  firm backing of the State, particularly from the financial standpoint.  The work of planning and development is guidedby the objectives and the policy set out as  follows:
1. To rationalize Argentina's education system, as a whole, clearly establishing its aims  and objectives, reorganizing its structure and revising curricula, methods and direc-  tion of effort in order to adapt them to the community's current needs;
2. To regard as the focal point the effort to be made, in order to increase educationalef-  ficiency, to establish the complete cycle of general education constituted bythe primary  school and the first cycle of the secondary schoo!, paving the way, by a proper system  of guidance, for the continuation of studies by those who can benefit from them. Atten-  tion will therefore be given to the problem of school drop-out in both cycles;
3. To co-ordinate State and private education, without favouring either, in order to avoid  duplication of effort and to provide the entire population with the possibility of access  to all levels of education. The State will exercise direction and control so as to ensure  the achievement of the objectives in accordance with the planning targets laid down;
4. To work out fair and equitable methods of selection and State support for children and  young people possessing aptitudes for the various disciplines but lacking the necessary  resources, thereby preventing their frustration and the resultant loss tothe community;
5. To take vigorous action in matters relating to physical training and sports, reorganiz-  ing the existing bodies or creating those required in order to improve the present sit-  uation and ensure for young people wider access to sports and physical activities.
(5.24) The State Secretariat for Culture and Education, of which I am incharge - formerly called  the Ministry of Education and Justice (its powers and functions are identical, the change of name  merely reflecting the new structural organization of the Argentinian Government) - has worked  out a programme for a national educational policy. In this connexion, our government proposes
165   vi Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  to set up a Sub-Secretariat for Science, under the Secretariat for Culture and Education, as an  expression of the outstanding importance which it attaches to a scientific research policy at the  highest level. One of the general objectives set is the construction of an educational system pro-  viding a training in line with the spiritual characteristics of our civilization and fully designed  and adapted for effective integration in a country whose social and economic development should  be in tune with its histeric past, its present and {ts future. We have embarked on the task ofen-  auring the effectiveness of the achool system (rom the quantitative and qualitative standpoints;  and equality of opportunity by promoting the democratization of education in Argentina and par-  ticipation by the community, thereby giving concrete expression to the educational responsibili-  ties of all sectors of society.
(6.25) As regards the national universitier, the government’ as desire is to gear their essential  autonomy to this co-ordinated national educational policy. A national university nationally inte-  grated: perhaps that is the simplest formula for defining the government's aspirations with re-  gard to higher education; a university autonomous in respect of {ts academic functioning and the  appointment of its authorities and teaching staff, confirmed In the principle of freedom of instruc-  tion and scientific research, working in the service of the nation and of its institutions and needs,  and keenly aware of its responsibilities; a university conceived as an organ for forming the na-  tional character and transmitting the most precious elements of the nation's spiritual heritage;  a university which is rooted in the historical past, and sustained by national realities and which  is the receptacle, finally, of a culture that knows no frontiers; a university ladies and gentlemen,  which looks to the future, In line with this conception, an Advisory Council for State University  Education has already been set up in Buenos Aires with a membership consisting of leading pro-  fessors from the various national universities, with full powers to advise the government in the  matter and prepare the draft text of a new legal statute.
(5.26) One of the factors at present militating, in many countries, against the programming and  implementation of scientific research projects is undoubtedly the manifest tendency to confuse  the university milieu with that of political activity, whether national or international. In our coun-  try, the normal development of teaching and research work will always be guaranteed so as to  ensure that technical assistance and subventions from abroad for scientific research projects do  not suffer in any way for reasons extraneous to strictly university interests.
(5.27) Conscious of the importance of universities as leading centres of education, science and  culture - in other words, of the three objectives and functions for which we are workinghere -I  cannot but mention also the great promise held out by the private universities in our country -  universities which came into being in line with the principles of cultural freedom laid down in  our N tional Constitution and in the international charters. I am proud to say that we have in our  count. y, as a bastion of civilization, the most southerly university in the world.
(5.28) I should like to stress the work which the national academies are doing, on the basis of  complete autonomy, as the country's top-level institutes. We are honoured that the Chairman of  our Executive Board, Dr. Atilio Dell'Oro Maini, presides with such distinction over our National  Academy of Law. A proof of the standing that these bodies have achieved is to be seen inthe deci-  sion adopted by the Fourth International Congress on the History of America, which was recently  held in Buenos Aires, to set up an Association of History Academies of the Latin American coun-  tries to be located, by the unanimous vote of the participants in that Congress, inour capital.
(5.29) As regards government action, provisions have already been made for the establishment  of a Standing Committee, with myself as Chairman, lo co-ordinate the school administrations  coming under my authority; to work towards and set up a Co-ordinating Committee for Education  in the national and provincial territories; to set up a Technical Department for Integrated Fduca-  tional Planning; to ensure that adequate use is made of broadcasting media for the transmission  of educational programmes; that history, science and art museums are equipped with teaching  material; to formulate the necessary directives to ensure that vocational guidance is given its due  place in the educational system and that the law concerning the renovation and conservation of  school buildings ts applied.
(5.30) With regard to the cultural field, a general development policy will be envicaged with a  view to enhancing our traditional national cultural values and raising the intellectual level of the  Argentine people. M
(5.31) With regard to those never to be forgotten and almost legendary sources of culture - books  and museums - the Argentinian Government is planning to bring up to date the law on museums  and the conservation of the national artistic and cultural heritage, and to remodel along modern  lines the legislation and the authorities in charge of public libraries.
166   Sesiones plenurias / I senopihe 3acevanua VII
(6.32) Mr, President and fellow delegates, I have pleasure, in concluding my government! s de-  position at thia fourteenth session of the General Conference, in expressing its intention to renew  its support and backing for Unesco, in the conviction that the Organization, strengthened in its  mission by twenty years of uninterrupted activity, will embark on a further stage of sure and posi-  tive advance towards the happiness of mankind.
6,1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie S, Exe, M, Gelly y Obes de son discours,
6,2 Je donne maintenant la parole à S, Exc, M, Kazuo Tanikawa, chef de la délégation  japonaise.
7.1 Mr. TANIKAWA (Japan):  Mr. President, first of all, in the name of the Japanese delegation, I wish to congratu-  late you heartily on your election to the presidency of the fourteenth session of the General  Conference of Unesco. A man of excellent calibre and abundant experience in Unesco's  field of activities, you will, I believe, lead the present session to a successful conclusion.
7.2 Availing myself of this opportunity, may I say, Mr. President, with our sincere con-  dolences, how deeply we regret the sudden death of the President of the last session of the  General Conference, Dr. Noraïr Martirosovitch Sissakian. The late Academician, who  was a distinguished scientist, not only left many works of international value in his aca-  demic field but also contributed greatly towards the development of Unesco as a member of  the Executive Board and the President of the General Conference at its thirteenth session.  The Japanese delegation pays tribute to the memory of the late professor who in his life-  time visited Japan several times.
7.3 I express my respects to the Director-General, Mr. René Maheu, who with his great  intelligence and powers of leadership is ever striving to promote the authority of Unesco  at this juncture when the world is expecting more and more of our Organization.
7.4 Since the last session of the General Conference, two new countries have been born  in Asia: Maldive and Singapore, of which the latter joined Unesco just a year ago. Con-  gratulating this new Member State on its accession to Unesco, the Japanese delegation  would like to express its warmest welcome to the delegation of Singapore as it takes part  in a session of the General Conference for the first time. Also, it is gratifying forusall  thet Indonesia has wisely cancelled itg once -submitted notice of withdrawal from Unesco  before it took effect. I am confident that in its resumed participation in the work of Unesco  Indonesia will be all the more active.
7.5 In a week's time, Unesco will be celebrating its Twentieth Anniversary. It was in-  deed an epoch-making event in the history of mankind that, out of the scourge of the war,  an international organization like Unesco should have been created, with the hopes and ex-  pectations of all the peoples of the world for the lasting peace and welfare of mankind.  Since then, the Organization has extended moral and practical support to all the Member  States for the advancement of education, science and culture, thus contributing effectively  to the objectives of international peace and the common welfare of mankind for which it was  established. It is extremely significant that such an international organization is now cele-  brating its Twentieth Anniversary. It is with great pleasure that my delegation expresses  heartfelt congratulations on behalf of the people and the Government of Japan.
7.6 Iam happy to say that the Constitution of Japan, which was promulgated on the day  just preceding the day on which the Constitution of Unesco came into force, embodies the  same spirit of devotion to peace. Since our admission to Unesco in 1851, we have made  every possible effort, on the basis of our own experience in the fields of education, science  and culture, to contribute to the development of Unesco. On this felicitous occasion, I  pledge myself, on behalf of the Government of Japan, to continue our positive support and  active co-operation in the work of Unesco.
167   vu Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
7.7 The Japanese delegation listened with great interest the day before yesterday to the  statements made by the Acting Chairman of the Executive Board and the Director-General,  introducing this general debate. As they stated, and as is Indicated in the documents which  we have before us, Unesco's Draft Programme and Budget for 1067-1968 has been prepared  most carefully on the basis of the experience and ideas of the Secretariat, the comments  and proposals of Member States, and tiie opinions, suggestions and advice of the advisory  committees and international non-governmental organizations. I shall, therefore, refrain  here from commenting on individual projects for 1967-1968, and confine inyself to a few  general observations.
7.8 In examining document 14 C/5, the first thing that we notice is that in its Part II the  systematization of programmes has been executed, that the future development of long-term  projects is clearly shown in various sections, and that the suggestions as to the measures  to be taken by Member States and National Commissions are presented. I would like to con-  gratulate the Secretariat on its success in incorporating in such concise form the enormous  volume of programme activities which Unesco is called upon to undertake.
7.9 I now turn to the future programme. It goes without saying that the long-term action  proposed in 14 C/5 should be well programmed and effectively implemented with due re-  flection and evaluation in the light of the objectives of the Organization.
7.10 I will begin with the education sector. Nobody I believe, would object if I were to say  that education constitutes the foundation of the development of a nation. This being so, the  emphasis of the programme and budget of Unesco should continue to be placed on education,  without of course any prejudice to science, culture and communication.
7.11 In the domain of education, there are such important sectors as the development of  educational research, the development of compulsory education, the improvement of sec-  ondary and higher education, the eradication of illiteracy, and the reorganization of life-  long education, all involving many problems to which solutions must be found. It is true  that great efforts have constantly been made by Unesco to promote the quantitative expan-  sion and qualitative improvement of education. I earnestly hope that such efforts will fur-  ther be strengthened. Here, I should like to emphasize one thing. It is that we should keep  in mind that education should always be oriented towards the establishment and lasting  maintenance of peace. T'v» this end, Unesco should, 1 believe, continue its efforts for the  diffusion and improvement of education for international understanding and co-operation.
7.12 Japan began the modernization of its education by the promulgation of the Education  Act in 1872. Serious efforts supported by the whole nation, on the basis of the educational  background accumulated until then, enabled us to develop a system of universal compulsory  education and to eradicate illiteracy in a comparatively short period of time. On the basis  of the experience thus acquired and with a view to furthering the development of education  in Asia, we have undertaken such activities as the organization of regional meetings and  training courses, the preparation and distribution of technical information materials, the  provision of equipment and experts, and invitations extended to educational administrators  from Asian countries to visit our country for observation and exchange of views. From  next year onward, in line with the recommendations adopted by the Conference of Ministers  of Education and Ministers responsible for Economic Planning of Member States in Asia  held in Bangkok last year, the Government of Japan is planning to make contributions to  the development of educational research in Aslan countries. Co-operation in this regard  is sincerely solicited from all countries concerned.
7.13 Now the natural sciences. In ‘he sector of the application of science and technology  to development, the Japanese delegation considers that the main concern of Unesco should  be the establishment of scientific foundations fn the Member States with special emphasis  on the development of human resources. From this point of view, Japan has been carrying  out, fn collaboration with Unesco, various projects for the benefit of scientists, teachers
168   Sesiones plenurius / Maenapuéie Jacedanua Vu  and research workers from the developing countries. Such projects include the establish-  ment of the International Institute of Sefamology and Farthquake Engineering, organization  of the international post-graduate university courses in chemistryand chemical engineering,  organ{zation of regional shipboard training courses in marine sciences, participation in ac-  tivities for the advancement of science education. I assure you that Japan will not fail to  exert further efforts in these lines of action in the future.
7.14 With regard to the sector of international co-operation for the advancement of natural  sciences, I should like to stress that the ultimate goal of all endeavours forthe advancement  of science and technology should be international peace and the common welfare of human  beings. We are firmly convinced that it is the mission of Unesco to assume continuing and  intensive responsibilities in this respect. An explosive population growth is now to be ob-  served, particularly in the areas in the process of development where people are suffering  from shortage of food. It is even said that the whole world could starve before long unless  some eftective measures are taken to solve the problem of the population explosion. Under  such circumstances, every possible measure must be put into effect. We therefore consider  that, as one such measure, the promotion of agricultural education and research is a very  urgent necessity. With long-term objectives in view, efforts should be made to improve  and develop vocational education at school, to promote functional literacy, and to trainhigh  level agricultural researchers. It is therefore earnestly desired that Unesco should make  further efforts, in co-operation with FAO andany other organizations that maybe concerned,  to draw up and implement concerted and effective programmes of action.
7.15 I now come to the social sciences, human sciences and culture. We understand that  the Major Project on Mutual Appreciation of Eastern and Western Cultural Values ends  this year. Among the various component projects carried out by Unesco within the frame-  work of the Major Project, the most highly assessed in Japan are (a) the project of assist-  ing national institutes for regional cultural study and (b) the project of translation and pub-  lication of representative works of literature. For the future, therefore, my delegation  strongly desires that these two projects as well as a programme of study of cultures of the  world by regions, initiated in 14 C/5, should be continued and expanded inthe ensuing biennia.
7.16 From 1639 and for the following 215 years, Japan was under strict restriction in re-  gard to international exchanges with Western countries. However, whenthe door was widely  opened for external relations by the Meiji Restoration which took place in the latter half of  the Nineteenth century, Western civilization was introduced to Japan with a rush, and Japan  came to feel the impact of the West in every aspect of life, The people of Japan digested  and absorbed the contributions of these Western cultures, and succeeded in fusing them into  their own culture with its ancient traditions. The countries of the West in turn enriched  their views through the resultant close contact with the classical cultural values of Japan.  Now, in order to celebrate the centenary of the beginning of the Meiji era which took place  in 1868, government bodies, representatives of national non-governmental organizations  and government consultants, meeting in a committee, have already begun preparations for  the commemorative celebrations and long-term projects.
7.17 The Director-General has proposed, in document 14 C/5, a project entitled "Japan's  contribution to contemporary art" with a view to making a study of the creation of new cul-  tures as a result of the encounter of different existing cultures. The Japanese delegation,  while expressing profound respect for the insight of the Director-General in this regard,  earnestly hopes that the study will be expanded on a long-term basis to include not onlyart  but also other branches of culture. Japan is ready to make every possible effort for the  effective implementation of Unesco! s study projects, and indeed I sincerely hope that all  concerned will give their full support to the promotion of these projects.
8,1 Le PRESIDENT, - .  Je saisis l'occasion que m'offre l'intervention de S, Exc, M, Tanikawa, pour rappeler  à la Conférence générale que la Commission nationale du Japon pour l'Unesco, dont nous
169   VII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  connaissons tous l'efficacité, a fait traduire intégralement en japonais le Projet de programme  et de budget pour 1987-1968,
8,2 Je donne maintenant la parole à S, Exe, M, Borg Oliver, ministre de l'éducation, de  la culture et du tourisme et chef de la délégation de Malte,
9.1 Dr. BORG OLIVER (Malta):  Mr. President, honourable colleagues, it gives me great pleasure and pride to address  for the first time this General Conference of Unesco. For Malta it isa matter of great honour  and satisfaction to have been admitted as a member of Unesco, for which in the name of our  delegation I would like to convey our thanks. I would like at the same time to add our sin-  cere wishes for the continued success of the work of this august organization which has ren-  dered and is rendering a great service to humanity by strengthening the bonds uniting the  peoples of the world without distinction of race, creed or colour.
9.2 I take this opportunity to express on behalf of my delegation our special satisfaction,  and my personal good wishes, on the election of Professor Tuncel as President of this  General Conference. In conveying our heartfelt wishes for the success of the high mission  entrusted to him, we are confident that his long experience and profound culture will be an  important asset to us all and a great contribution towards the achievement of the goals of  this current session.
9.3 My small country attained independence just two years ago, and has since then been  admitted to form part of the world organizations of the United Nations and some of its Spe-  cialized Agencies. It is my government's firm intention to honour the obligations we have  thus contracted, and we shall make it our duty to contribute effectively to the work of the  General Conference of Unesco and its various commissions, thus helping to promote that  intellectual co-operation so necessary for the general well-being of humanity.
9.4 To the President of the General Conference, the Director-General and the members  of Unesco I would like to express the thanks of the Government of Malta, whichhas followed  with admiration the steady and often difficult achievement of your ideals particularly in the  various fields of teaching and education throughout the world, thus making available the la-  test educational knowledge and techniques to populations clamnuring for intellectual pro-  motion.
9.5 In spite of the waves of various and sometimes dissonant theories of materialism that  are propagated throughout the world, it is the sacred duty of whoever assumes the respon-  sibilities of government to foster and maintain the cultural heritage handed down through  past generations. The greater interdependence of the peoples and nations of the world is  today becoming more and more apparent, and with the increasing rapidity and ease of com-  munications, the causes of ignorance andisolationarebeing removed. The geographical  situation of my small island country, at the crossroads of the Mediterranean Sea, made it  the pathway to the most glorious and flourishing civilizations of the past. Malta is proud  to possess an incalculable artistic wealth, which we consider to be an integral part of the  universal cultural heritage, which it is our common duty to preserve. It was for this rea-  gon that, before becoming a member of Unesco, the Government of Malta asked for the ur-  gent co-operation of this Organization, by the provision of financial aid and the services of  experts, to explore the possibilities of establishing a museuin to house the antique and ar-  tistic treasures of the Church at Mdina, the old capital of the Island. It was thanks to the  zeal and devotion of the members and of the Director-General of Unesco thata recommend-  ation was adopted in favour of this request. My delegation reiterates {ts expression of tha ks  for the attention thus given to the solutions proposed by my government.
9.6 We are also deeply grateful for the assistance given to us in the educational field, es-  pecially in respect of the Malta College of Arts, Science and Technology, which is of such  great help in giving our youngsters the technical training necessary to prepare them toplay
170   Sesiones plenartas / den peue 3acevaxnua vi  their part in the diversification of our Island's economy, made necessary by the diminished  importance of the defence services on whicha very large proportion of our economy depended.
8.7 Fully aware of the importance of the mission you are accomplishing, my delegation  will be guided by the high spirit of devotion to human welfare which hasalways characterized  your work. Looking confidently to the future, my government is fully determined to play  its part in the fulfilment of the aims of Unesco as set out in its Constitution and to make its  contribution to this admirable and indispensable undertaking, enriching humanityand foster-  ing the solidarity of all members of the international community.  .10, Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie S, Exe, M, Borg Oliver de son discours et je donne la parole à S, Exc,  M. Boutros Dib, chef de la délégation du Liban,
11,1 M, BOUTROS DIB (Liban), -  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, la quatorzième session de  la Conférence générale s'est donné un président qui est l'une des figures éminentes de l'Uni-  versité, En ce vingtième anniversaire de l'Unesco, etaumoment où l'Organisation se penche  sur les divers problèmes de l'éducation avec un soin particulier que traduit éloquemment  l'importance qui continue d'être accordée à ce domaine, il me plaft d'attribuer à ce choix  une signification symbolique, Le professeur Tuncel est un grand éducateur ; mais c'est aussi  un érudit, un esprit issu de l'une de ces vieilles terres méditerranéennes qui, depuis  l'Antiquité, ont si profondément marqué notre conception de la culture et de l'homme, En  mon nom et au nom de la délégation du Liban, pays arabe, petit par ses dimensions mais,  depuis l'Antiquité, point de convergence des grands courants intellectuels et spirituels, venus  aussi bien des profondeurs du continent que de la mer admirablement intelligente qui baigne  ses rivages, je voudrais présenter mes félicitations à l'érudit qui va présider nos travaux,
11,2 Je saisis cette occasion pour exprimer les félicitations et les voeux de la délégation  libanaise aux vice-présidents qui, constituant le Bureau de notre Conférence, sont appelés  à marquer celle-ci de leur empreinte.
11.3 Qu'il me soit permis aussi de rendre hommage au Conseil exécutif et à son dynamique  président, S. Exc, M. El Fasi, Je prie S, Exc, M, Dell'Oro Maini, qui représente si digne-  ment parmi nous le Conseil et dont la sagacité et la vaste érudition, jointes à une riche expé-  rience de la vie publique, ont apporté une contribution des plus précieuses à l'oeuvre de notre  Organisation, de vouloir bien être l'interprète de nos sentiments de grande considération  et de profonde gratitude à l'égard du Conseil exécutif. Mais, avant d'aller plus loin, je vou-  drais m'associer à tout ce qui a été dit, ces jours derniers, pour évoquer la mémoire du  grand académicien, le professeur Sissakian, qui a laissé parmi nous le souvenir d'un homme  de la plus haute valeur intellectuelle et morale, d'un scientifique en qui les vertus de l'huma-  niste étaient restées actives et vivantes et qui, par là même, par cette incarnation parfaite  de l'humanisme dans l'acception classique du mot, par ce refus de dissocier la recherche  scientifique de la complexité du réel, portait témoignage de ce que j'appellerai l'une des  préoccupations à long terme de l'Unesco.
11,4 Et, puisque nous célébrons le vingtième anniversaire de l'Organisation, je voudrais  me tourner d'ores et déjà vers con Directeur général, Je ne me propose pas de louer ici  les qualités de rigueur intellectuelle, la largeur de vues, ou les capacités d'homme d'action  de M. René Maheu, Qu'il me soit seulement permis d'évoquer ce que j'appellerai son privi-  lège le plus singulier - j'entends cette étonnante union, en lui, du besoin de lucidité, en de-  hor 3 et au-delà de toutes les suggestions de l'instant et du lieu, et de la solf d'efficacité,  qui distingue les grands caractères, Ce que je voudrais dire aujourd'hui, Monsieur le  Directeur général, c'est non seulement que l'Unesco vous doit beaucoup, depuis vingt ans  précisément que vous lui consacrez le meilleur de vo os forces, aux divers postes où votre  compétence vous a successivement et naturellement‘ porté, mais aussi que, sans vous,  l'Unesco n'aurait peut-être pas été tout à fait ce qu'elle est : cette Organisation qui, malgré
8a puissante assise matérielle, a su garder assez de sveltesse pour rester attentive À tous
171   vil Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  les aspects d'un monde en plein devenir, s'intéresser vivement aux problèmes posés et dé-  sirer intervenir pour leur apporter, dans leur complexité même et sans rien sacrifier de  cette complexité, qui est richesse, les solutions simples et évidentes qui s'imposent, Si  donc l'Unesco peut revendiquer aujourd'hui, dans le domaine qui est le sien - mais, à  l'heure des actions et des interactions, comment délimiter avec précision un domaine ? -  si, dis-je, l'Unesco peut revendiquer d'être la "conscience du monde", c'est à vous en  grande partie qu'elle le doit, Si elle n'est pas un simple instrument d'exécution, si sa voca-  tion, comme vous l'avez magnifiquement dit, "n'est pas utilitaire mais éthique", elle doit  cela, en grande partie, à votre intelligence de ses moyens et de sa finalité.
11,5 Quel chemin parcouru depuis vingt ans ! S'il est vrai que les chiffres parlent, ce qu'ils  disent dans ce cas eat clair : alors qu'il y a vingt ans, le budget annuel de notre Organisation  ne dépassait pas sept millions de dollars, aujourd'hui l'Unesco, directement ou indirecte-  ment, dispose de plus de deux cents millions de dollars pour franchir une étape de deux ans,  Cela ne serait peut-être rien si, tous les deux ans et à chaque rendez-vous de la Conférence  générale, on ne voyait un peu mieux que l'Organisation, tout en s'ampliffant, progresse sû-  rement vers des objectifs de plus en plus déterminés et précis, Soixante projets en train  d'être réalisés dans les pays en vole de développement, À quoi viennent s'ajouter les projets  mis en oeuvre dans les pays développés et les projets-pilotes, voilà un bilan d'action qui  fait de l'Unesco, dans le triple et unique domaine de l'éducation, de la science et de la cul-  ture, une force décisive - décisive par les principes et les critères qui inspirent et orientent  son action, décisive aussi par l'immense champ ouvert À son entreprise, L'Unesco est au-  jourd'hui une force capitale au service de la paix, d'une paix qui ne soit pas seulement main-  tien des choses en l'état, mais plutôt conquête organisée de l'avenir, La paix, qui est essen-  tiellement un phénomène de culture, ne se situe-t-elle pas, comme l'Unesco elle-même, en  ce point de rencontre où convergent le respect des individualismes, des particularités et de  la diversité des hommes et des nations et la recherche, à un niveau plus profond, de ce qui  est motivations identiques, aspirations similaires, communes valeurs ? Peut-être est-il  important que ce témoignage soit porté par le représentant d'un petit pays pacifique, pro-  fondément attaché à son identité nationale ainsi qu'à son appartenance régionale, mais aussi  à ses amitiés internationales, un pays qui se flatte d'avoir transmis l'alphabet aux hommes,  d'avoir été, il y a vingt ans, l'un des premiers Etats membres de l'Unesco, et qui est fier  d'avoir accueilli sur son sol, en 1948, la troisième session de la Conférence générale, pré-  sidée par Hamid Frangié, Qu'il me soit permis, tant sur le plan personnel - étant donné  les liens de famille qui me lient à lui - que sur le plan national, de déplorer les raisons de  santé qui empêchent, hélas ! Hamid Frangié de participer à la Table ronde sur la contribu-  tion de l'Unesco à la paix, où tant d'éminentes personnalités viendront, dans quelques jours,  discuter et définir en commun nos raisons de croire et d'espérer.
11,6 Parce que ncus croyons en l'Unesco et que nous espérons en son action, c'est pour  nous un devoir d'être plus attentifs encore à tout ce qui vient d'elle - plus attentifs et plus  exigeants. C'est de cette conviction que procèdent les quelques observations que je vais  me permettre de faire relativement au Projet de programme et de budget,
11,7 Certes, ce Projet de programme et de budget, tel qu'il nous est présenté, répond  parfaitement au souci exprimé par le Directeur général, À la suite de la résolution formu-  lée par le Conseil exécutif (71 EX/Décisions, 6.1.1), de faire aussi'clair, aussi court, et  aussi logique que possible, Ainsi, la lecture s'en trouve agréablement simplifiée et les ré-  solutions, présentées sous forme de projet chaque fois que cela est nécessaire, se trouve-  ront ainsi plus faciles à étudier et, éventuellement, À adopter, Le Directeur général a rai-  son de signaler qu'étant donné la complication de plus en plus grande des tâches de l'Unesco,  la nouvelle procédure d'établissement du document, avec les nombreuses études prélimi-  naires et consultations d'organismes compétents ou d'experts spécialisés qu'elle implique  est appelée À alléger conaidérablement le travail de la Commiigsion du Programme et, parla’  suite, celle du Secrétariat lui-même : muni rapidement d'un plan d'opération clair et défini,  celui-ci devrait pouvoir désormais - sans perdre un temps précieux À s'efforcer d'adapter  les textes - entre» très rapidement dans le vif des questions. Oui, le Directeur général a  raison quand il écrit ce qui, me semble-t-il, est l'un des principes essentiels définis dans
172   Sesiones plenurius / lrenapuwe sacevanua VII  l'introduction : "l'Unesco n'est plus, à bien des égards et dans de multiples domaines, une  organisation qui se cherche, Elle est engagée dans l'action : pour ses organes exécutifs,  l'action désorm”:s doit primer toutes choses",
11,8 Ce souci de réalisme et d'efficacité qui anime le Directeur général nous incite égale-  ment & nous féliciter de la manière dont le Projet de programme et de budget envisage la  collaboration de l'Unesco et d'autres organismes des Nations Unies - collaboration dont les  avantages, aussi bien purement techniques que moraux et spirituels, n'ont pas besoin d'être  décrits. Toute collaboration est harmonie ; toute tentative d'harmonisation sert la paix.
11,9 En ce qui concerne le nouvel effort de l'Organisation dans le domaine de l'éducation,  nous nous rallions, dans l'ensemble, aux grandes lignes définies dans le Programme, no-  tamment à celles qui tracent de nouvelles directions ou à celles qui soulignent des faits édu-  catifs dont l'importance devient, d'année en année, plus considérable, C'est ainsi que nous  nous félicitons, notamment, de l'acceñt mis sur la nécessité de faciliter à la femme l'accès  à l'éducation et sur l'intérêt de l'éducation extrascolaire, des activités de jeunesse, de l'or-  ganisation des loisirs, Pour notre part, en effet, nous croyons que la valeur d'une civilisa-  tion se mesure, entre autres éléments, à la manière dont les hommes qui s'en réclament  occupent leurs loisirs, comme nous croyons que l'éducation est permanente, qu'elle ne  prend fin qu'avec la vie, Que ce soit là, aux yeux du Directeur général, des domaines défi-  nis comme prioritaires, avec la planification ou l'administration de l'éducation, l'amélio-  ration de la condition et de la formation des enseignants et la lutte contre l'analphabétisme,  voilà qui donne bien la mesure de l'attention portée par l'Unesco aux problèmes les plus .  aigus du monde contemporain dans le secteur qui nous intéresse,
11.10 A propos de ces problèmes, je me fais un plaisir de citer ici, devant cette assemblée,  le texte du message que S, Exc, M, Charles Hélou, président de la République libanaise, a  adressé à M, Maheu le 8 septembre dernier : "Nous nous réjouissons des efforts déployés  par l'Unesco dans sa lutte contre l'analphabétisme, et nous associons sincèrement au projet  de célébrer désormais le 8 septembre comme journée internationale pour l'alphabétisation.  Le Liban, berceau de l'alphabet, et toujours attaché à la promotion culturelle des masses,  ne peut que redire sa foi dans l'élévation de la condition de l'homme pour laquelle milite  l'Unesco sous l'impulsion de son éminent Directeur général",
11,11 Aux yeux de certains, des projets aussi ambitieux que ceux que j'ai mentionnés ne  sauraient, pour le moment, aboutir à des résultats concrets suffisamment importants pour  que l'Organisation soit récompensée-de see immenses efforts ou des sommes considérables  qu'elle a consacrées à leur mise en train, L'argument vaudrait si l'Unesco était seulement  cet instrument d'exécution dont j'ai parlé tout À l'heure, si l'Unesco n'était pas, de plus en  plus, cette "conscience du monde" appelée à mettre en place, d'ores et déjà, des cadres  bien tracés pour des opérations à venir, dont le caractère ambitieux, loin de devoir nous  décourager, devrait, au contraire, constituer pour nous tous, un stimulant,
11,12 Quant à la planification et à l'administration de l'enseigneme t, elles nous paraissent  de plus en plus nécessaires, en raison même de l'extension quantitative et qualificative de  l'enseignement, ainsi que de la diversification de ses formes et méthodes, "Planifier l'édu-  cation ne signifie pas autre chose qu'imaginer et déterminer l'avenir d'un pays", a écrit  quelque part M, René Maheu, Cette planification, dans la mesure où elle englobe l'enseigne-  ment supérieur surtout (paragraphes 230 et suivants du Projet de programme et de budget),  assurera la formation des cadres dont, même dans les pays développés, on éprouve de plus  en plus le besoin, La planification devra tenir particulièrement compte des méthodes nou-  velles, comme il est indiqué aux paragraphes 390, 418 et 419, L'application de ces méthodes,  avec ce qu'elles supposent d'uniformisation - sans qu'il soit porté atteinte, bien entendu,  au respect de la personnalité des individus et des nations - aura un autre avantage : celui  de faciliter les échanges culturels, voire les échanges d'étudiants,
11,13 En ce qui concerne les sciences exactes et naturelles, on ne peut, certes, que se  louer de les voir bénéficier d'un fort pourcentage d'augmentation des crédits - 9,8 % - dans
173   vil Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  le cadre du budget ordinaire et 9,3 % dans le cadre de la participation au Programme des  Nations Unies pour le développement, L'Unesco, qui, pendant les deux années écoulées, a  fait beaucoup pour l'avancement de la recherche scientifique, continuera dans cette voie,  d'u pas plus décidé encore, Il reste que notre voeu le plus cher est que cet avantage donné  aux sciences exactes et naturelles ne nuise pas à l'effort que réclament également de l'Unesco  les sciences sociales, les sciences humaines et la culture, au sens le plus général duterme,
11,14 À nos yeux, en effet, sciences sociales, sciences humaines et culture constituent le  terrain d'élection pour cette rencontre entre les hommes et pour ces échanges qui sont les  facteurs essentiels de la paix - de cette paix qui est, par delà même l'éducation, la science  et la culture, l'objectif le plus élevé de notre Organisation,
11,15 Ce que nous déplorons, c'est la manière - je me permets de souligner ce mot - dont  aujourd'hui l'Unesco semble proclamer la primauté des sciences exactes en les rattachant  au progrès d'une façon qui semble les opposer aux sciences sociales et humaines, Certes,  les sciences exactes et naturelles deviennent, dans notre civilisation, de plus en plus im-  portantes. Je dirai même que, dans la mesure où la possession de cadres modernes con-  sacre effectivement la souveraineté d'un pays ct le libère, par conséquent, de tout complexe  vis-à-vis des puissances plus développées, ce pays peut s'intégrer plus facilement dans le  concert des nations, Mais la situation de la culture dans le monde n'est peut-être pas si  brillante qu'elle n'appelle les remarques suivantes :
11,16 Tout d'abord, l'enseignement humaniste est en régression et souvent en décadence,  un peu partout. Certes, l'humanisme véritable n'est pas exclusivement littéraire : il est  aussi scientifique, Mais c'est surtout à travers leurs cultures respectives, prises dans  leur acception traditionnelle, que les hommes apprennent à se mieux connaître. C'est là,  je l'ai dit, le principal instrument qu'on puisse mettre au service de la paix,
11,17 Ensuite, à lire certaines publications de l'Unesco, à voir l'insistance avec laquelle  le présent Projet de programme revient sur la nécessité de mieux faire connaître l'Orga-  nisation, n'a-t-on pas l'impression qu'il règne un certain sentiment d'insatisfaction au sein  même de l'Organisation, relativement à ses propres réalisations ?
11,18 Il serait à craindre que ce sentiment n'ait fini par créer une lassitude - ou même  un découragement - qui aurait amené, à son tour, l'Unesco à réconsidérer son attitude vis-  a-vis des options qu'elle avait faites jusque-là et qui portaient essentiellement sur la cul-  ture. Avant de pousser plus loin, je dois dire que les explications fournies ici même, il y  a deux jours, par le Directeur général, sur les priorités, le "pourquoi" de l'action de  l'Unesco, la conscience plus claire que celle-ci a désormais de l'efficacité de ses moyens  d'action, atténuent quelque peu certaines de nos appréhensions, Toutefois, il ne serait  peut-être pas inutile de formuler les remarques suivantes :
11,19 Premièrement, la nature même des questions culturelles fait que les résultats des  efforts déployés dans ce domaine ne se constatent d'une façon sensible qu'au bout d'un  temps relativement long, très long même. Or, comme l'écrit le Directeur général lui-même,  "s'il y a un domaine où la réflexion s'impose et où la qualité prime la quantité, c'est bien,  je crois, celui-là". De plus, la "culture" est déjà, en soi, un fait des plus complexes. Sa  définition même n'est pas encore uniformément acceptée, Echanger les cultures, c'est en-  core plus délicat, Les effets quantitatifs se manifestent, évidemment, d'une façon bien  plus sensible dans le domaine des sciences exactes,
11,20 Deuxièmement, pour surmonter, en se regardant dans le miroir du monde, ce que  j'appellerai sa crise de culture, l'Unesco ne disposait pas encore des moyens de commu-  nication dont elle vient de se doter : les moyens audio-visuels, Elle n'avait même pas en-  core mis au point le meilleur emploi possible des moyens dits classiques : livres, presse,  etc. Désormais, il lui appartient d'utiliser au maximum le Département de l'information  dont elle vient fort heureusement de renforcer et de développer la structure.
11,21 Evoquant ce problème de l'information, en marge des préoccupations de l'Unesco  en ce vingtième anniversaire, je ne peux m'empêcher de repenser à la formule célèbre :  "Etre informé, c'est être libre". Serait-il exagéré de voir dans l'avènement d'une infor-  mation digne de ce nom un moyen pratique d'aider au règne de ce droit fondamental de  l'homme qu'est la liberté ? Et le droit à la connaissance, le droit à la vérité est-il moins  fondamental ? Ne rejoint-il pas, dans ses conséquences, ce droit A la paix dont l'humanité,  brûlant d' impatience, attend la réalisation ? L'homme, on le sait, est ennemi de ce qu'il  ignore, Dans l'oeuvre de rapprochement entre les peuples tentée par les Nations Unies,  l'information a un rôle essentiel à jouer, Aussi, le regroupement, dans un même départe-  ment, des diverz02 antivi££7 concernant l'information nous semble-t-il une excellente idée,  Excellente aussi, l'idée de doter ce département d'un règlement qui lui assure le maximum  de souplesse, partant, de rapidité,
11,22 Sans entrer ici dans les détails, nous approuvons l'ensemble du Programme pour ce  qui concerne les moyens d'exécution. Toutefois, au sujet des objectifs que se propose d'at-  teindre ledit pregramme, il nous paraft utile de formuler les remarques suivantes :
11,23 Premièrement, les paragraphes 1088 et 1089 semblent dire que ce gigantesque appa-  reil d'information,dont se dote l'Unesco, eat "essentiellement' - l'adverbe est dans le texte -  destiné à faire connaître l'Organisation, Or, il me semble que des tâches plus importantes,  voire sacrées, attendent celle-ci, Nous ne sommes pas hostiles à l'idée de faire connaître  notre Organisation, Nous souffrons du peu de compréhension - voire de l'incompréhension -  qu'elle rencontre parfois, Nous insistons auprès d'elle pour qu'elle se fasse mieux connaître,  Ce qu'il faut éviter, ce sont les ambiguftés : vous devinez, certes, Mesdames, Messieurs,  la réaction du lecteur qui en viendrait à s'imaginer que l'Unesco se dote d'un gigantesque  appareil d'information pour se livrer à une autopropagande qu'elle classerait parmi ses ac-  tivités essentielles,
11,24 En second lieu, il faut surtou - comme le Directeur général l'indique dans l'intro-  duction - parvenir à mobiliser l'opinion publique, non en faveur de l'Unesco en tant qu'orga-  nisation internationale, mais en faveur des idéaux et des oeuvres qu'elle est appelée à dé-  fendre, à illustrer et à réaliser - et qui sont sa raison d'être,
11,25 Echanges culturels, technique moderne de l'information mise au service d'une fra-  ternité internationale authentique - je ne puis évoquer ces moyens de rapprochement entre  les humains sans songer au Projet majeur Orfent-Occident, La délégation libanaise ne peut  qu'approuver la teneur des articles qui s'y rapportent. Toutefois, le Projet de programme  pourrait donner l'impression que les échanges culturels sont considérés comme une opéra-  tion "quantitative" - comme cela ressort des paragraphes 138-139 de l'Introduction - qu'il  s'agit de remplacer par une autre, qui serait plus "'qualitative", car elle adopterait une mé-  thode "'d'intériorisation qui s'efforce de saisir la vie propre des réalités culturelles et non  plus leurs relations",
11,26 Certes, il faut, croyons-nous, que l'on travaille en profondeur sa propre culture, En  cela, nous sommes d'accord avec les auteurs du Projet de programme. Aussi bien, plus la  connaissance d'une culture est profonde, plus les échanges dont elle fait l'objet seront fruc-  tueux. Mais nous croyons aussi en la vertu des échanges considérés en eux-mêmes, dont  l'histoire recoupe, d'une façon fort significative, celle de l'évolution de l'humanité.
11,27 C'est en partant de ces données que nous saluons avec enthousiasme l'idée de mieux  faire connaître les vieilles civilisations d'Afrique - ce qui constituera, j'en suis sûr, un  apport fort précieux à la civilisation en général.
11,28 Et les richesses de l'Amérique - ce prolongement culturel, si j'ose dire, du monde  méditerranéen ? Si, un jour, s'avérait exacte la thèse selon laquelle nos ancêtres Phéniciens  ont poussé jusqu'aux rivages de ce qui restera à jamais peut-être le Nouveau Monde - sous  réserve des futures conquêtes spatiales - les racines culturelles de l'Amérique puiseraient  jusque dans l'Antiquité méditerranéenne.
175   Vil Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
11,29 Quant au secteur balkanique, dont il est également question de répandre la culture,  la dénomination de "baril de poudre" qui lui a été donnée est-elle autre chose que la traduc-  tion politico-militaire du fait historico-géographique du "carrefour balkanique" ? Puisae le  potentiel de ce baril être mis au service de la paix et de la fraternité universelle, du res-  pect de l'homme et de ses droits !
11,30 Mesdames, Messieurs lea délégués, parmi les résolutions proposées, il en est une  qui me touche particulièrement, c'est celle qui figure au paragraphe 853 et qui concerne le  respect universel des droits de l'homme et la lutte contre les préjugés raciaux, Mon pays  est si traditionnellement attaché aux droits de l'homme qu'il s'est parfois défini - véritable  creuset de cultures et de spiritualités diverses - comme la "patrie de l'homme”, Et c'est  une tradition de l'Université libanaise que.de célébrer, tous les ans, l'anniversaire de la  Déclaration universelle des droits de l'homme,
11,31 Mais, si cette évocation des droits de l'homme s'impose ici à mon attention, c'est  que je songe aux millions de réfugiés répandus à travers le monde, que les organisations  internationales n'arriveront guère à convaincre de l'existence de ces droits, Et cependant,  pour l'homme à qui le sol natal n'a pas soudain fait défaut sous les pieds, ces droits existent,  au même titre que l'air respiré et l'eau indispensable à la vie, Le respect des droits de  l'homme est un facteur essentiel de la paix qui est, elle-même, l'un de ces droits évoqués  et, me semble-t-il, l'un des plus fondamentaux,
11,32 Voilà, Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs les Délégués, l'essentiel des  remarques que je souhaitais faire devant cette assemblée, Ces remarques, je le répète,  n'ont d'autre but que d'ajouter, dans la mesure du possible, une parcelle de lumière à ce  document lumineux que le Secrétariat nous a remis entre les mains pour que nous voyions  clair sur les routes de l'avenir. Cet avenir s'annoncerait menaçant, si les tragiques éclairs  qui sillonnent ici et là le ciel sombre des nations n'étaient heureusement compensés par de  grandes et puissantes chances d'éclaircie qui nous viennent des assemblées des hommes de  bonne volonté, notamment d'ici même, de l'Unesco. À la montée des orages, l'Unesco oppo-  sera ce que son Directeur général a magnifiquement appelé son "âme", Elle y opposera,  nous en sommes convaincus, les chances victorieuses de ses vingt ans,
11,33 Voir les hommes, à travers leurs cultures, prêcher les mêmes idéaux, vénérer les  mêmes valeurs de liberté, d'égalité, de justice, de fraternité, plaider également pour la  dignité de l'homme : tout cela ne peut que contribuer à créer, entre les hommes, comme  entre les nations, une atmosphère de confiance réciproque, sans laquelle la paix ne serait  ni possible ni viable. Et c'est pourquoi nous critiquerions volontiers l'opposition plus fon-  damentale encore qui semble se dégager du titre du paragraphe 745 du Projet de programme  et de budget : "La diveruité des cultures face à l'universalité de la science et de la techno-  logic", Les cultures, aussi, ont leur universalité,
12.1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Je sais gré à S, Exc, M, Boutros Dib d'avoir évoqué, en ce vingtième anniversaire de  notre Organisation, la mémorable troisième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco,  qui s'est tenue à Beyrouth et qui a été l'une des plus intéressantes, grâce au concours du  Gouvernement libanais.
12,2 Je regretie que la séance du Bureau de la Conférence se soit prolongée, ce matin,  plus qu'il n'était prévu, et que nous ayons ainsi pris du retard, Les trois autres orateurs  qui avaient demandé la parole ce matin parleront au début de la séance de cet après-midi.
12,3 La séance est levée,  The meeting rose at 1,05 p, m,  La séance est levée à 13 h, 05,  Se levanta la sesién a las 13, 05,