30 November 1966 at 10,30 a, m,  President: Mr, Bedrettin TUNCEL (Turkey)  TRENTE-NEUVIEME SEANCE PLENIERE
30 novembre 1966, à 10 h, 30  Président : M, Bedrettin TUNCEL (Turquie)  TRIGÉSIMONOVENA SESION PLENARIA
30 Hoxn6p4 1966 r. 5 10 4, 30 M,  Ilpeacenarens: I'-u B.TYHYEJIb (Typuus)  CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORT OF THE PROGRAMME COMMISSION (continued)  EXAMEN DU RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION DU PROGRAMME (suite)  EXAMEN DEL INFORME DE LA COMISION DEL PROGRAMA (continuacién)  PACCMOTPEHHE NOKJAJIA KOMHCCHH NO NPOI'PAMME (nposonxenne)
1.1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Mesdames et Messieurs, la trente-neuvième séance plénière de la Conférence géné-  rale est ouverte. :
1.2 Je donne la parole à S, Exe, M. Kirpal, qui va nous présenter le sixième et dernier  fascicule du rapport de la Commission du programme (document 14 C/92),
2.1 Mr. KIRPAL (India) Chairman of the Programme Commission:  Mr. President, I invite the attention of the distinguished delegates to document 14 C/92,  Instalment 6 - Report of the Programme Commission, Part D - Detailed Consideration of  the Programme and Budget for 1967-1968,
2,2 This, Mr, President, is one of the most important parts of the Report of the Pro-  gramme Commission - its report on the future programme of Unesco. The Commission  regards it as an innovation and the Deputy Director-General, in his concluding statement,  has categorized it as adding a new dimension to the legislative functions of the General  Conference.
2.3 In this instalment of the Report, the General Conference has itself embarked on a  system of long-term planning of the Organization's programme - an Innovation and a new  departure, The report on the future programme consists of 14 C/02 Instalment 6, Part D,  which is in your hands, and the Summary Records of the Commission's 11th, 12th, 13thand
14th meetings, which yesterday, Mr, President, you decided should be published as part  of this Report.
1093   XXXIX Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
2.4 Lot me oxplain why this should be done, The Commission felt that the debate on the  future programme was so rich and full of nuances that it would be difficult in the shorttime  at its disposal to establish an analytical summary, It was therofore decided that the Sum-  mary Records will constitute its roport and that the concluding synthesis by the Deputy  Director-General should be the last section of this report, as a general guide to what took  place, The Deputy Director-Gencral's concluding statement is therefore the last Annexto  this report.
2,5 The report on the future programme has five main divisions and four Annexes. The  five divisions of this document are the Introduction - paragraphs 1 to 19; Time-table of  Preparation of the Programme and Budget - paragraph 20; Evaluation - paragraphs 21 and
22; Directives for the Elaboration of the Future Programme - paragraphs 23 to 26; and Fu-  ture Rôle and Organization of the Programme Commission ~ paragraphs 27-28,
2,6 The four Annexes are as follows: Annex 1 - Report of the Working Party on Evalua-  tion; Annex II, in four parts: Annex II-(i) - Report of Sub-Commission I concerning the fu-  ture programme in the field of Education; Annex II-(i1) - Report of Sub-Commission II con-  cerning the future programme in the field of Natural Sciences and their Application to  Development; Annex II-(it1) - Report of Sub-CommissionIT, concerning the future programme  in the field of Social Sciences, Human Sciences and Culture, and Annex II-(iv) - Report of  Sub-Comr mission I concerning the future programme in the field of Communication. An-  nex III, deals with the Future rôle and organization of the Programme Commission; and  lastly, Annex IV is the Stute:nent of the Deputy Director-General at the close of the debate  on the future programmrm.,
2,7 Now, taking up (ne first division, paragraphs 1-19, these are merely historical and  informative and are to be noted by the General Conference.
2.8 The second division, Mr. President, deals with the time-table of preparation of docu-  ment 15 C/5. As you have, on Monday, adopted the recommendation of the Administrative  Commission, this recommendation contained in paragraph 20 is merely to be noted since it  conforms to your decision,
2.9 The third division deals with evluation and appraisal, and techniques to be used in  future programme and comments on past efforts. I call your attention, here, to Annex I -  The Report of the Working Party on Evaluation of which the General Conference is reques-  ted to take note, as the Commission has already done,
2.10 In paragraph 22 the Commission unanimously recommends that the General Confer-  ence adopt the resolution proposed in the working party's report (Part VIT) as set out un-  der this paragraph,
3.1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Mesdames et Messieurs, je mets aux voix le projet de résolution qui figure au para-  graphe 22 du Titre III (Evaluation) du fascicule 6,  (Le vote a lieu à main levée. )
3.2 Voici le résultat du vote : le projet de résolution est adopté par la Conférence géné-  rale à l'inanimité.
4,1 Mr, KIRPAL (India) Chairman of the Programme Commission:  Mr. President, 1 now turn to the fourth and most significant division of this document:  Directives for the elaboration of the future programme. We shall go through it slowly,  step by step, because of its great importance. :
4.2 First, the directives on Education; these are found in the resolution in paragraph (23)  (a)(1) - Future programme in the Field of Education; and the report attached to this resolu-  tion is to be found at Annex II (1). These two documents are to be noted, Mr, President,  and no other action is required.
4,3 Secondly, the directive on Natural Sciences and their Application to the Development  is to be found in tho resolution in paragraph (23)(b)(11), and the report attached to this re-  solution i8 to bo found in Annex II(i1). Here again thése two documents, the resolution and  the Annex are to be noted,
4.4 Thirdly, the directive on Social Sciences, Human Sciences and Culture is to be found  in the resolution in paragraph (23)(c)(111}, to which two further resolutions are annexed,  and the report on it is to be found in Annex II[(il1), These resolutions and the report, Mr.  President, are to be noted; no other action is required.
4,5 Fourthly, the directive on Communication is to be found in the resolution in paragraph
(23)(f}{1v), together with three resolutions annexed to it, and the report attached to this  resolution is to be found in Annex II(iv), These also are to be noted, Mr, President.
4.6 And laatly, we come to the overall directive on the future programme contained inthe  resolution in paragraph (25) to which eight important resolutions are annexed,
4.7 In the preceding paragraph (24) you will note, Mr, President, that at the close of the  debate and in the light of the above reports and draft resolutions, and of proposals contained  in its Summary Records, the Commission unanimously adopted the resolution containedin  paragraph 25, as it appeared in document 14 C/PRG.13 Corr,.1,
4.8 The Commission requests approval by the General Conference of the recommendations  made in this overall resolution, which I would like briefly to explain,
4.9 The resolution calls attention to aix specific issues of programme co-ordination: the  overlapping of science education as between the Education and Natural Science sectors; the  joint and somewhat competitive interests of the Education and Science sectors in technical  and vocational education; the importance of further work and thought on developing an inte-  grated approach and possibly doctrine in the two new sectors of Social and Human Sciences  and Culture and Communication; the Importance of integrating all elements in the Communi-  cation sector (mass media, documentation, statistics and training) into the programme of  every other sector; the relevance of the programme in Social and Human Sciences to the  programme of all other sectors, its special significance for the system of built-in evalua-  tion which is systematically initiated in 1967; the clear and explicit recommendation and  projects within the framework of long-term planning in the Natural Science sector which  are also implicit in other sectors, These issues of programme co-ordination are brought  to the attention of the General Conference.
4,10 Then the Programme Commission recommends to the General Conference, that it:  (a) invite the Director-General and Executive Board, when elaborating the programme for
1969-1970, to take into account the proposals made orally and in writing in the Programme  Commission with regard to the future programme, as contained in the Summary Records  of the Commission of 24 and 25 November, and in particular draft resolutions annexed  hereto, which have commanded general support; (these draft resolutions, Mr. President,  are 14 C/DR,130, 14 C/DR.141, 14 C/DR.79, 14 C/8, page 4 (draft resolution by Roman-  ia), 14 C/DR,203, 14 C/139, 14 C/DR.200 and 14 C/DR.201); (b) request the Director-  General to transmit the report of the Commission to Member States so that they may take  it Into account in formulating their proposals with regard to the future programme.
4.11 So, in this overall resolution on directives, Mr. President, the General Conference  is asked to note the issues of programme co-ordination to which attention is called here,  and then it is asked to vote on the last part of the resolution in which the Programme Com-  mission makes certain recommendations to the General Conference.
4,12 The eight draft resolutions annexed are very important and I will briefly mention  what they refer to. 14 C/DR.130, a resolution submitted by India, concerns the long-term  planning of reglonal conferences. 14 C/DR.141, is a very important resolution submitted
1085   XXXIX Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  by Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Swedon, concorns the harmonization of multi-  lateral and bilateral programmes, 14 C/DR,79, submitted by Austria, Belglum, Bulgaria,  Denmark, Finland, Hungary, Romania, Sweden and Yugoslavia, concerns the intensified  Unesco programmes of co-operation in Europe and their development on the basis of the  programme for Europe approved for 1067-1668, The draft resolution in 14 C/DR.8, page
4, submitted by Romania, concerning human resources and manpower development, is a  directive both for the next biennfum and for the future, 14 C/DR,203, concerning man and  his environment, and submitted by Czechoslovakia, Finland, Japan, India, Mexico, Poland  and Yugoslavia, 18 an overall resolution which would undoubtedly influence all parts of the  programme, and open the way to a long-term programme. It contains suggestions for cer-  tain pilot projects, which will be carefully studied by the Director-General. 14 C/DR,139,  submitted by Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden, contains a proposal for a  budgetary reserve under Programme Operations and Services. This is an important res-  olution which marks a new departure. The General Conference invites the Executive Board  and the Director-General to earmark, in Part II, Programme Operations and Services, of  the Draft Programme and Budget for 1969-1970, a reserve not exceeding $150, 000, the use  of which {8 to be decided by the General Conference at its fifteenth session on the basis of  proposals to be made by Member States, 14 C/DR.200, submitted by Belgium, concerning  technical and vocational education. And finally, 14 C/DR,201, submitted by Yugoslavia,  on education, work and civic participation,
4.13 So, to sum up, Mr, President, I propose that the Goneral Conference take note of  tha issues listed in the resolution under paragraph 25 and vote on the last part of the res-  olution and also take note of the eight important resolutions which I have specified,
5.1 Le PRESIDENT, -  La Conférence est invitée à prendre note des paragraphes 23 (a), 23 (b), 23 (c) et 23  (f) du Titre IV (Directives pour l'élaboration du Programme futur) du fascicule 6 du rapport  de la Commission du programme, ainsi que des rapports des sous-commissions qui figurent  dans l'Annexe II (parties (1), (ii), (iii), et (iv)) à ce fascicule.
6.2 Si aucune remarque n'est formulée, je considérerai que la Conférence a pris note de  ces paragraphes et des rapports annexes,
5.3 Il en est ainsi décidé.
5.4 La Conférence générale est maintenant appelée a se prononcer sur le paragraphe 25  du même Titre IV, où la Commission invite la Conférence générale à approuver les recom-  mandations formulées dans la résolution qui figure à ce paragraphe, à voter la recomman-  dation contenue dans les deux derniers alinéas - (a) et (b) - de cette résolution, et à prendre  note des divers projets de résolution qui figurent en annexe au paragraphe 25.
5.5 Je mets aux voix les alinéas (a) et (b) qui terminent le paragraphe 25.  (Le vote a lieu à main levée, )
5,6 Ces deux alinéas sont adoptés à l'unanimité.
6.1 Mr. KIRPAL (India) Chairman of the Programme Commission:  Mr, President, I now turn to the fifth and last division of the report, the future rôle  and organization of the Programme Commission.
6.2 I draw your attention to the Annex III containing the report which I submitted to the  Commission, analysing the replies which 107 out of 120 delegations sent to me in answer  to a questionnaire addressed to them, It is suggested in paragraph 27 that the General  Conference endorse and take note of the report as the Commission has already done,
6.3 Mr, President, paragraph 26 of the Report contains a resolution which ia to be approved  by the General Conference: The Commission unanimously recommended that the General
1096   Sesiones plenarias / Naenapuue sacedanua XXXIX  Conferonce adopt the following resolution, as it appeared in document 14 C/PRG/13 (para-  graph 4 (b)), as amended in the course of discussion, I shall read this resolution:  "The General Conference,
1. Bearing in mind its decision that "the Sub-Commissions should discuss the direc-  tives to be established for the preparation of the programme in that seotor for sub-  sequent biennia" and "that the preparation of directives for the development of the  programme for future years heyond the immediate coming biennium is one of the  most important functions of the Programme Commission" (document 14 C/2);
2. Having noted the reports of thé Programme Commission and its Sub-Commissions  on the future programme (document 14 C/92 Part D);
3. Requests the Director-General to circulate these reports to Member States and  Associate Members so that they can take these reports into account in formulating  their proposals on the future programme;
4, Invites the Director-General and the Executive Board in preparing the Draft Pro-  gramme for 1969-1970 to take into account the reports and recommendations of  the Programme Commission and its Sub-Commissions with regard to the future  programme, together with their Summary Records.
5. Requests the Executive Board to study and propose to its fifteenth session proced-  ures for discussion of the future programme which will enable it to work with  groater precision in establishing directives for the preparation of the programme  for future biennia," ;
6.4 Mr, President, may I request that you put this resolution to the vote of .he General  Conference and also the resolution contained in paragraph 28.
7.1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Je soumets à l'approbation de la Conférence générale le projet de résolution qui figure  au paragraphe 26 du Titre IV, ainsi que les deux paragraphes 27 ct 28 du Titre V (Rôle et  organisation futurs de la Commission du programme), le sccond de ces paragraphes conte-  nant également un projet de résolution.
7.2 Je mets aux voix les paragraphes 26, 27 et 28,  (Le vote a lieu & main levée, )
7,3 Voici le résultat du vote : ces paragraphes sont adoptés par la Conférence générale  à l'unanimité,
7.4 Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, nous avons ainsi examiné successivement toutes les  sections du rapport de la Commission du programme, Il nous faut maintenant adopter ce  rapport dans son ensemble, y compris les résolutions avec les amendements et modifica-  tions qui y ont été apportés, y compris aussi les différentes ouvertures de crédits.
7.5 Je mets aux voix l'ensemble du rapport de la Commission du programme, tel qu'il fi-  gure dans les documents 14 C/92, fascicules 1 à 6, 14 C/92 Add, I et II, et 14 C/92 Corr.,  avec les modifications que nous y avons apportées,  (Le vote a lieu à main levée, )
7.6 Voici le résultat du vote : le rapport de la Commission du programme est adopté à  l'unanimité.
7.7 Je donne la parole au Directeur général.
8, Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL, -  Monsieur le Président, en ce qui concerne le rapport de la Commission du programme,
1097   XXXIX Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  que la Conférence générale vient d'adopter à l'unanimité, je précise que, répondant au dé-  sir exprimé par la Commission dans la dornière résolution qui so trouve à la fin du docu-  ment 14 C/92 Add. 2, je publierai, conformément au dispositif de cette résolution, dans  le volume des Actes de In Conférence qui contient les résolutions, ainsi que les rapports  des commissions et comités, dans le cadre du rapport de la Commission du programme et  à l'endroit approprié, les parties des comptes rendus analytiques des séances de la Com-  mission qui sont énumérés dans te dernier paragraphe de la résolution, c'est-à-dire les  SR, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 16 et 17, Le texte de ces comptes rendus, qui sera donc incorporé  à la version imprimée du rapport de la Commission, comportera les corrections qui auront  été faites par les participants au résumé de leurs propres interventions. Ce seront donc les  procès-verbaux définitifs qui scront imprimés, Ces procès-verbaux seront présentés de la  même façon que les comptes rendus in extenso des séances plénières dans l'autre volume  des Actes, c'est-à-dire dans une seule version quadrilingue. Seuls, les passages en russe  ou en espagnol seront traduits en anglais ou en français, alternativement,
9, Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie le Directeur général de cette mise au point et je donne la parole au Prési-  dent de la Commission du programme, S, Exc, M, Prem Kirpal,
10.1 Mr, KIRPAL (India) Chairman of the Programme Commission:  Mr, President, you have now voted upon all the resolutions contained in Part D, In-  stalment 6 of the Report, including the last resolution, under paragraph 28. You have al-  s0 adopted the full Report of the Programme Commission.
10.2 It remains for me, Mr, President, to express my gratitude to all the delegations  who participated in the Programme Commission and made the work of that Commission so  significant and creative. The Programme Commission working hard end earnestly and  thoughtfully, has set up standards for the future which augur well for the development of  our programme in the long term,
10.3 Mr, President, again ! wish to take this opportunity to thank all my colleagues, the  Vice-Chairmen of the Programme Commission, the Chairman and officials of the two Sub-  Commissions, the Rapporteurs, and to express my gratitude for the excellent help we have  recoived from the Secretariat, and especially from the Deputy Director-General  Dr, Adiseshiah. We had the benefit of receiving the advice and comments of the Director-  General on several important issues, Our work was conducted, as I said yesterday, in  great harmony and understanding, and I thank you, Mr. President, for steering the Report  of the Programme Commission so well and so successfully through this debate,
11. Le PRESIDENT, -  Mesdames et Messieurs, je me plais, en cet instant, à exprimer, en votre nom à tous  et en mon nom personnel, à la Commission du programme, à son distingué Président, au  Rapporteur et aux Vice-Présidents, ainsi qu'aux Présidents et Rapporteurs des deux sous-  commissions et des groupes de travail, et À tous ceux qui ont travaillé à la Commission,  non seulement notre gratitude, mais surtout notre admiration pour l'effort remarquable  qu'ils ont fourni et qui a été couronné de résultats aussi satisfaisants, Nous avons tous pu  nous rendre compte, chaque jour, de l'intensité du travail de la Commission et de ses or-  ganes subsidiaires je crois pouvoir dire, sans crainte de me tromper, qu'aucun organe  de la Conférence n'a travaillé aussi durement que la Commission du programme ; et cette  impression a été confirmée par la densité et la richesse du rapport qui vient d'être approu-  vé, Je ,noudrais féliciter, en particulier, S, Exc, M, Kirpal d'avoir mené les travaux de  la Commission à bonne fin et, surtout, de nous en avoir présenté le rapport avec une clar-  té et une précision exemplaires, ce qui a singulièrement facilité notre tâche.
1098   Sesiones plenarias /5enapuue 3a6edanns XXXIX  VOTE ON THE APPROPRIATION RESOLUTION FOR 1967-1968/VOTE DE LA RESOLUTION  PORTANT OUVERTURE DE CREDITS POUR 1967-1968/APROBACION DE LA RESOLUCION  DFE CONSIGNACION DE CREDITOS PARA 1967-1968/ TONOCOBAHHE TIO PE3ONDIHH  OB ACCHTHOBAHHSIX HA 1967-1968 TO/IbI
12,1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Je vous invite maintenant, Mesdames, Messieurs, à prendre en considération le point
17 de l'ordre du jour : Vote de la résolution portant ouverture de crédits pour 1967-1968,
12,2 Je vous demande de vous reporter au document 14 C/89, Ce document représente, en  fait, la récapitulation de décistons qui ont déjà été prises par la Conférence serlatim, la  forme de la résolution ayant été examinée par la Commission administrative et approuvée  par la Conférence générale en séunce plénière. Les ouvertures de crédits concernant les  Titres I, III, IV et V ont également été recommandées par la Commission administrative  et approuvées par la Conférence générale, Nous venons, en outre, d'approuver, sur rap-  port de la Commission du programme, les ouvertures de crédits relatives au Titre II - Exé-  cution du Programme. Il s'agit maintenant, par conséquent, de confirmer toutes ces déci-  sions. Mais il s'agit, en même temps, d'une décision capitale, car, par l'adoption de cette  résolution, nous renouvelons notre accord unanime sur le montant total du budget et nous  donnons ainsi à l'Organisation les moyens nécessaires pour exécuter le Programme et les  autres décisions que nous avons adoptées.
12,3 Si personne ne demande à parler sur le projet de résolution portant ouverture de cré-  dits qui fait l'objet du document 14 C/89, j'aural l'honneur de soumettre ce projet à l'appro-  bation de la Conférence générale,
12,4 Je le mets aux voix.  (Le vote a lieu à main levée, )
12,5 Voici le résultat du vote : le projet de résolution est adopté par la Conférence à  l'unanimité.  DETERMINATION, ON THE RECOMMENDATION OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD, OF THE  PLACE AND DATE OF THE FIFTEENTH SESSION OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  FIXATION, SUR LA RECOMMANDATION DU CONSEIL EXECUTIF, DU LIEU ET DE LA  DATE DE LA QUINZIEME SESSION DE LA CONFERENCE GENERALE  DETERMINACION, POR RECOMENDACION DEL CONSEJO EJECUTIVO, DEL LUGAR Y  DE LA FECHA EN QUE HAYA DE CELEBRARSE LA 15a, REUNION DE LA CONFERENCIA  GENERAL  ONPEIAEJEHUE, TIO PEKOMEHAAIHH HCNIOJTHUTEJIBHOT O COBETA, MECTA  H ATH NNPOBEAEHHS MATHANUATOH CECCHH TEHEPAJBHOH KOH®EPEHUHH
13,1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Mesdames, Messieurs, nous allons aborder maintenant, si vous le voulez bien, les  questions concernant la quinzième session de la Conférence générale. Tout d'abord, nous  prendrons le point 41 de l’ordre du jour : Lieu de la quinzième session,
13.2 J'invite le président du Conseil exécutif, S, Exo, M, Mohammed El Fasi, A nous  présenter la recommandation du Conseil à ce sujet (document 14 C/66).
14,1 M, EL FASI (Maroc), président du Conseil exécutif, -  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messiours, comme il est dit à l'article 3 du Règle-  ment intérieur de la Conférence générale, que je me permettrai de citer :
1099   XXXIX Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  "1, Tout Etat membre peut inviter la Conférence générale à se réunir sur son territoire.  Le Directeur général Informe la Conférence générale de ces invitations,
2. En fixant le Siège de la session suivante, le'Congeil exécutif et la Conférence géné-  rale n'examinent que les invitations qui ont été transmises au Directeur général au  moins six semaines avant l'ouverture de la session en cours, , , "‘
14,2 Or, à la date du 12 septembre 1066, c'est-à-dire à la date mite définie au paragraphe
2 de l'article 3 du Règlement intérieur, aucun Etat membre n'avait invité la Conférence  générale,
14,3 Pour le calcul des crédits demandés au chapitre 1 (Conférence générale) du Titre I  du Projet de programme et de budget pour 1987-1968, on est parti de l'hypothèse que la  quinzième session de la Conférence se tiendrait au Siège de l'Unesco, à Paris,
14,4 En conséquence, le Conseil exécutif u décidé, à sa 73e session, de recommander à  la Conférence générale de tenir sa quinzième session au Siège de l'Organisation, à Paris.
14,6 Je vous invite donc, Mesdames, Messieurs, à vous prononcer d'abord sur le choix  de Paris comme lieu de la quinzième session de la Conférence générale,
15,1 Le PRESIDENT. -  Je soumets à l'approbation de la Conférence générale la proposition qui vient d'être  faite par le Président du Conseil exécutif,
15.2 Si aucune objection n'est formulée, je considérerai que la Conférence a approuvé  cette proposition,
15,3 Il en est ainsi décidé,
15,4 Je donne la parole au Président du Conseil exécutif,
16,1 M. EL FASI (Maroc), président du Conseil exécutif. -  Pour ce qui est de la date de la réunion de la quinzième session, le Conseil exécutif et  son Comité ad hoc ont étudié longuement le calendrier des travaux du Conseil et de la pré-  paration du Projet de programme et de budget, dont dépend, en définitive, la date de la pro-  chaine session de la Conférence générale.
16,2 Le projet de résolution qui figure dans le document 14 C/66 est rédigé comme suit :  "La Conférence générale,  Considérant la recommandation du Conseil exécutif sur le lieu et la date de réunion de  la quinzième session de la Conférence générrie,  Décide de tenir sa quinzième session à Paris au Siège de l'Organisation, et  Décide que cette session s'ouvrira le mardi 29 octobre 1968".
16.3 Mais, à vrai dire, comme je l'ai précisé en proposant cette date & la Commission du  programme et à la Commission administrative, le Conseil exécutif n'y tenait pas et l'avait  prise en considération uniquement pour des raisons d'ordre pratique (place disponible dans  les hôtels, ete,). Or, sur la base de renseignements qui nous sont parvenus depuis, la pos-  sibilité est apparue d'avancer cette date, conformément au voeu initial de la majorité des  membres du Conseil, Dans ces conditions, les deux Commissions se sont mises d'accord  sur la date du mardi 15 octobre, au lieu du 29 octobre.
16,4 La date sur laquelle la Conférence générale est maintenant invitée à se prononcer  est donc celle du 15 octobre 1068,
17,1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Je vemercie le Président du Conseil et je soumets à l'approbation de la Conférence gé-  nérale la dernière phrase, amendée comme il vient d'être précisé, du document 14 C/66 :  “"Décide que cette session - la quinzième session de la Conférence générale - s'ouvrira le  mardi 15 octobre 1068",
17,2 Si aucune remarque n'est formulée, je considérerai que la Conférence générale a  adopté cette recommandation,
17,3 Il en est ainsi décidé,  ELECTION, ON THE REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE, OF THE MEMBERS  OF THE HEADQUARTERS COMMITTEE, LEGAL COMMITTEE, REPORTS COMMITTEE  AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE INTERNATIONAL CAMPAIGN TO SAVE THE  MONUMENTS OF NUBIA  ELECTION, SUR LE RAPPORT DU COMITE DES CANDIDATURES, DES MEMBRES DU  COMITE DU SIEGE, DU COMITE JURIDIQUE, DU COMITE DESRAPPORTSET DU COMITE  EXECUTIF DE LA CAMPAGNE INTERNATIONALE POUR LA SAUVEGARDE DES  MONUMENTS DE NUBIE  ELECCION, CON ARREGLO Al, INFORME DEL COMITE DE CANDIDATURAS, DE LOS .  MIEMBROS DEL COMITE DE LA CASA CENTRAL, DEL COMITE JURIDICO, DEL COMITE  DE INFORMES Y DEL COMITE EJECUTIVO DE LA CAMPANA INTERNACIONAL PARA  SALVAR LOS MONUMENTOS DE NUBIA  BbIBOPbI, NO NOKJALY KOMHTETA TIO KAHAHIATYPAM, YIEHOB:  KOMHTETA NO IITAB-KBAPTHPE, ODPHIAHYECKOTO KOMHTETA,  KOMHTETA TO JOKJAAAM H HCTIOJIHUTEJIBHOI'O KOMHTETA  MEX/YHAPO/MHOH KAMIMAHHH NNO COXPAHEHHD ITAM5ITHHKOB HYBHH
18,1 Le PRESIDENT. -  Mesdames, Messieurs, nous considérerons maintenant, si vous le voulez bien, le point
42 de l'ordre du jour, qui concerne les comités qui doivent se réunir pendant ou avant la  quinzième session de la Conférence générale.
18.2 Je donne la parole au vice-président du Comité des candidatures, S, Exc,  M. Arianayagam, délégué de la Malaisie, qui va nous présenter les recommandations con-  tenues dans le rapport du Comité qui fait l'objet du document 14 C/95.
19.1 Mr. ARIANAYAGAM (Malaysia) Chairman of the Nominations Committee:  Mr. President, it gives me great pleasure to present the Report of the Nominations  Committee. The Nominations Committee has considered recommendations for the follow-  ing committees: the Executive Committee of the International Campaign to Save the Monu-  ments of Nubia, the Headquarters Committee, the Reports Committee and the Legal Com-  mittee,
19.2 The Nominations Committee decided to recommend to the General Conference to ex-  tend the term of office of the present Committee of the International Campaign to Save the  Monuments of Nubia for a further two-year period 1967-1968.
19,3 No change in the membership has been proposed, That is, it has been proposed that  the following countries should continue to serve on this Committee: Brazil, Ecuador,  France, Federal Republic of Germany, India, Italy, Lebanon, Netherlands, Pakistan,  Spain, Sudan, Sweden, United Arab Republic, the United States of America and Yugoslavia,  Mr, President, I propose that these recommendations be adopted by the General Conference,
1101   XXXIX Plenary mectings/ Séances plénières
20, Le PRESIDENT:  J'invite le Vico-P.ésident du Comité dos candidatures à poursuivre la présentation  du rapport du Comité.
21,1 Mr, ARIANAYAGAM (Malaysia) Chairman of the Nominations Committee:  It was unanimously agreed that the following 15 M mber States should bo recommended  to serve on the Headquarters Committee: Australia, Austria, Burundi, Ethiopia, France,  Greece, Iran, Iraq, italy, Morocco, Netherlands Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the  United Kingdom, tho United States of America and Uruguay.
21.2 The Nominations Committee also unanimously decided to recommend to the General  Conference that the meinbership of the Reports Committee should be as follows: Argentina,  Australia, Austria, Bulgaria, Congo (Democratic Republic of), Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Da-  homey, Ecuador, France, India, Italy, Libya, Malaysia, Mexico, Mongolia, Nigeria, Po-  land, Senegal, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Togo, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom, the United States of America,  Upper Volta and Yugoslavia.
21.3 Mr. President, for the Legal Committee, the membership of which is restricted to
21, there were 26 nominations, A secret ballot was taken and the results of the voting are  given in document 14 C/95,
21.4 Accordingly, the Nominations Committee recommends to the General Conference that  the following Member States should constitute the membership of this Committee: France,  the United Kingdom, Colombia, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Dominican Republic,  Urited States of America, United Arab Republic, Romania, Canada, India, Kenya, Tunisia,  Sweden, Cameroon, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Lebanon, Hungary, Pakistan,  iabon and Czechoslovakia.
21.5 Mr, President, I move that these recommendations be adopted.
22,1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie le Vice-Président du Comité des candidatures de nous avoir présenté le  rapport du Comité sur le point 42 de l'ordre du jour,
22.2 Mesdames, Messieurs, je vais d'abord soumeitre à votre approbation la première  recommandation qui a trait au Comité exécutif de la C:mpagne internationale pour la sau-  vegarde des monuments de Nubie, Si aucune objection n'est formulée, je considérerai que  vous adoptez cette recommandation du Comité des candidat.wres.
22.3 Cette recommandation est adoptée.
22.4 Je soumets maintenant à votre approbation la liste des membres proposés pour faire  partie du Comité du Siège. Si aucune objection n'est formulée, je considérerai que vous  l'aepprouvez,
22.5 Il en est ainsi décidé.
22,6 Je soumets maintenant à votre approbation la composition du Comité des rapports.  Si aucune remarque n'est formulée, je considérerai qu'elle est approuvée,
22,7 Je vous soumets maintenant la recommandation concernant la composition du Comité  juridique : le Comité des candidatures recommande que soient retenus les noms des 21 pays  figurant dans la liste reproduite dans le document 14 C/95 qui ont obtenu le plus grand  nombre de voix.
22,8 Si aucune objection n'est formulée, je considérerai que la Conférence générale a adop-  té cette recommandation,
22,9 Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, le dernier point qui reaté'à'notre ordre du jour  est l'adoption des conclusions et directives résultant du débat génél'al, qui nous seront pré-  sentées par le Comité de rédaction établi à cet effet, dont le président est S, Exc, M, Dell'Oro  Maini, Nous examinerons cette question à la séance de cet après-midi, qui sera la dernière  de la quatorzième session de la Conférence générale,
22,10 La séance cst levée,  The meeting rose at 11,20 a.m,  La séance est levée à 11 h, 20,  Se levanta la sesién a las 11, 20,  Jacenanne sakpsiBaerca B Îl4. 20M,