Twenty-eighth plenary meeting
4 November 1968 at 10,20 a.m,  , President: Mr. ETEKI-MBOUMOUA (Cameroon)  Vinêt- hüitièmé séance plénière
1,1 Le PRESIDENT, =,  Mesdames, Messieurs, je déclare la vingt- huitième séance plénière ouverte,
1.2 Le 4d novembre 1946, Unesco était’ nde’ et vingt. Etats rätifiatent à Londres. son “Acte  constitutif: Le 4 riovembre 1966, nous célébrions {ci même, : dans-l'enthousiasmé. et la fer-  veur, le vingtième anniversaire ‘de notre Organisation, et’ le Président de la République --  française honorait et rehaüssait de sa présence cette éérémônte, qui consacrait la matu-  rité et la majorité de l'Organisation, des Nations Unies, pour l'éduçation, - la science et la  culture. Le 4 novembre 1968, 125 Etats sont membres de l'Unesco, C'est avec le désir  d'affirmer cette maturité de notre. Organisation - maturité que je me plais & souligner, ;  pour que nous nous en félicitions mutuellement - que nous ‘allons maintenant reprendre,  pour éñ'arriver à un acte important de là présente session, l'examen du point 29 de, notre  ordre du jour,
765   XX Vill ) Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  CONSIDERATION (OF ITEM, 29 OF, THE AGENDA ;1 COMPOSITION OF. THE EXECUTIVE  BOARD, DURATION OF ‘TERM OFOFFICE OF MEMBERS AND' METHOD OF ELECTION  (continued) A  I IEA - 0- ;- - it e pit “At at à LL à PL à ER R  EXAMEN DU POINT 29 DE L'ORDRE' DU JOUR, :""COMPOSITION DU, CONSEIL EXECUTIF,  DUREE DU MANDAT ET MODALITES D'ELECTION DE SES MEMBRES'{suite)  EXAMEN DEL PUNTO:29 DEL, ORDEN DEL DIA ; COMPOSICION DEL GONSEIO  EJECUTIVO, DURACION! DEL, MANDATO Ÿ MÉTODO DE ELECCIONDE SUS MIEMBROS  us pu  (contiriuacién) . ;  LÉ ART SE IL IE ges te  PACCMOTPEHHE IIYHKTA 29 IOBECTKH.AH#: COCTAB HCHQOJHHTEJBHOTO  COBETA, NPOZMONKHTEJBHOCTb CPOKOB MOJIHOMOYWHH H METO/BI  NPOBEJEHHA BbJBOPOB EI'O YJIEHOB (npogouxeHHe)  * ‘ tt 4 HE PEE * :
2,1 Le PRESIDENT, - 1012100 Co  Nous reprenons donc, aujourd'hui, Mesdames, Messieurs, après une première discus-  sion préliminaire, qui a été, en fait, une discussion de fond, l'examen du point 29 de l'ordre  du jour : "Composition du Conseil exécutif, durée du mandat et modalités d'élection de ses  membres, TN - : » s. - Te H  #14, ESA iy } - 4, , La ET  LR PR STE 828 - * - ,
2,2 Je dois rappeler que cette question se trouve inscrite à l'ordre du jour en application  de la résolution 7, paragraphe 25, ‘adoptéé par la’ Conférence générale à sa quatorzième  session, Cette résolution fnvitait'1é Conseil ékéculif À réétudier 1¢' probleme de la compo-  sition du Conseil de manière à "garantir une représentation équitable et équilibrée des di-  versen cultures et régions géographiques, sans oublier que les personnalités élues devraient  posséder une expérience et une compétence dans les domaines propres à l'Unesco" et  compte tenu du fait "que la moitié des Etats membres n'ont jamais été élus membres du  Conseil exécutif". ,
2.3 Le rapport et les propositions auxquels a abouti l'étude du Conseil exécutif sont conte-  nus dans le document 15 C/24, Un projet d'amendement à l'Acte constitutif, relatif au même  problème, a été déposé par le Japon et le Pérou et fait l'objet du document ‘15 C/25,
2,4 La discussion préliminaire qui a eu lieu en aéance plénière les 21, 22 et 23 octobre  s'est terminée par l'adoption d'une résolution renvoyant au Comité juridiqué'él' à 1a Commis-  sion administrative l'examen‘des aspects juridiques et administratifs dé èe-problèmé: Ces  deux organes se sont acquittés de la tâche qui leur avait été confiée et ont déposé leurs  rapports, qui font l'ôbjet dés documents:15 C/76 (Rapport.du. Comité juridique) et'15 C/77  (Rapport de la Commission administrative); Avant d'engager lé débat, je vais inviter les  représentants de ces deux orgaries à présenter brièvement eux-mêmes ces rapports,  D : ' - . ‘
2.5 Je donné d'abord la parole au président ‘de la Commission administrative, M, Kirpal,
3.1 Mr. KIRPAL (India), Chalrriah of'thé Administrative Cômmission: LE  "MF. President, T'have the Honour to present thé special report of the Administrative :  Commission on the composition of the Exécutive Board document 15 C/77. = to
3.2 In accordance with paragraph 4 of the resolution concerning the composition of the  Executive Board adopted by the General Conference at its fourteenth plenary meeting on
23 October 1968, the Administrative Commission examined and has reported in this docu-  ment on the administrative and financial aspects of tiie draft resolution recommended by  the Executive Board and contained in document 15 C/24, Annex V.
3.3 When it wes examining this matter, the Commission was aware of the proposals of the  Governments of Japan, Peru, Malaysia, Ceylon and India, but concluded that they had no  identifiable administrative or financial implications. :
3,4 Thé Commission's general-oonolision was that the only recomméndationin the Exeou-  tive Board's ‘draft résolution having clearly.identifiable financial or administrative implica-  tions was the one under‘which the membersliip of the Board would be increased from 30 to
34 It was ticted that the cost of this incréase: was estimated at $38; 000 for two years, as  is specified in document 16 C/5'Add, and Corr. 2.) Annex II, paragraphs 10-end 12, and.  that this figure has been included 1 in the ° provisional budget ceiling for 1969- 1970 adopted by  the General Conference . ced  , LOY Tata ite Lf ; ' Cn
3.5 There v was a discussion, Mr. President, on this matter. Some members, felt that some  administrative or financial problems might arise which were not now readily apparent, For  example, the system of voting by electoral groups might take more time ofthe General Con-  ference, and the change in the duration, of ‘the term. of office of Bogard. Members, | ‘while, ;  having no financial implications, might influence the manner in which the Board carrie  out its work, ‘The Commission recognized that such problems could arise but that {t was  difficult to forecast their exact eftect, …
3.6 A number of questions wére asked and’ ahswered by ‘the. Sèéretariat and after hearihg  replies by the representativé of the Director-General, to questions’ of members, the Com-  mission decided that the following information regarding tlie proposedincrease in the num -  ber of members of the Executive Board from 30 to 34 should be included in its special  report,
3,7 (a)” the Coniiniesion noted the’ basis on which the sum of $38,000 was “eatulatéd as .  the cost of increasing thé Board membership, and that the estimate.did not cover any in-  crease in the membership of subsidiary’ organs of the Board; The latter question was not  mentioned in the draft’ resolution of the Board, and wae a subject for decision by the Board  itself.
3.8 (b) Increasing the ‘membership of the’ Board would entail additional work for: its  secretariat, The representative of the Director-General hoped, however, that at least  during the next biennium, this additional work could be absorbed by the four permanent  staff of the secretariat and that another post would not be required.
3.9 In conclusion, ‘the Commission’ was ‘satigfied that the sum of $38, ‘900 Was an approp-  riate estimate of the cost of increasing the membership of the Executive Board,
4.1 Le PRESIDENT. ER  Je remercie le Sriateii de 1a ‘Commission administrative. Je tiens à préciser quinn’  s'agit là d'un avis, destiné à éclairer la Conférence générale en vue de l'examen des, as- ,  pects ad inistratifs et financiers de la question qui lui est soumisé, La ‘Conférence n'a C  donc pas à adopter ce rapport : il lui suffira d'en prendre note.
4° 2 Je donne maintenant la parole, à M, Eek, président du Comité juridique, ;
5.1 Mr. EEK. (Sweden), Chairman: of the Legal ‘Committee: IER . a  Mr, President, distinguished delegates, I have the honour to present. to; the | ‘General  Conference the report of the Legal Committee on item 29 of the Agenda, composition of  the Executive Board, -The report as a whole, contained in document 15. C/76 and Corr. ,  was adopted unanimously by the Committee on 30. October Co J RP 4,  as. + . og EE vd , var 5234 1 - Aie
5.2 ME, president; 15 heh hie “Géreral” Conférence on 23° October referréd ito thie ‘Legal  Committee the’ VpuRelÿ légal aspects" of the draft resolution recommended by the Ex cutive  Board, together with the proposals of the Governments of Japan,’ Peru, Malaysia and Cey<  lon, it did so without defining those aspects. In these circumstances, the'Committee took  as a basis for its work a noté containing suggestions with regard to the list of legal ques-  tions with which the Committee might have to deal and the order in which they: should ! .be  discussed. tu ‘ REINS . :
767   XX VIII ’ Plenary meeting's / Séances plénières
5,3 The first task of ‘the Comiuittee: dealing. with the, amendments to the Constitution,  recommended by the Executive Board and reproduced in operative paragraph 2 of the draft  resolution:fecommended by the Board, Was to take note of the fact that these amendments  had been communicated to the Member States within the time limit prescribed by the Con-  stitution: I'refer to paragraph 5 of ihe Report of the Legal Committee, document 16 C/76,  The Committeé was therefore of the opinion that the General Conference could, if it so -  decided, adopt those amendments, Further, the Committee took the view that the proposed  amendment relating to the increase in the number of the Board's members called for no  particular comment of a logal nature, : “.  : N 3 . ; :  * ’ * EY
5.4 “The Cèminittéé thèn sxamined bie récommiéndétions of the Bosrdcorderntfd the ‘stab  Uishihent; ‘on a | provisiohal basis for the ‘fifteenth’ and sixtéénth'ééssioiis of thé ( Géneral Côr-  ferenéé, ‘of a "system ‘of ‘electdral ‘groupe of Member States: 'Here'I refér té Parâgräphs
6-12 inclusivé of the Committeè's report. In this connexion, the Committee considered the  question whether the introduction of the system as defined in document 15 6/24 would re-  quire an amendment to the Constitution, taking into account the fact that the Board's pro-  posal was of a provisional and experimental naturé. This question relates to the draft  amendments to the Constitution proposed by Japan and Peru in doéument 15 C/25.
5. 5 At the conclusion of the Committee's discussion, it was decided that, in order to. ‘sub-  mit an opinion on this question to the General Conference, the Committee should, in  accordance with Rule 33,.paragraph 2 of the Rules of l’rocedyre, take its decision by a  two-thirds majority of members present and voting: As explained in paragraphs 10 and 11  of the Committee's report, two subsequent votes were taken, one on the proposal that an  amendment to the Constitution was needed, the ot ther onthe. proposal that an amendment  was not needed, A two-thirds majority was not attained on either of these two proposals,  Thus, neither was adopted and, therefore, Mr. President, the Committee is not in a  position to give the General Conference an opinion on this question.
5.6 Howevér," the’ Cominittee ‘has exatiiinéd, from à toéhniééi point of view, the- draft  amendment to the Constitution proposed by J anan and Peru fn doéumerit 15 C/25. I refer  to paragraphs 13-18 inclusive in the Committue' s report. The Committee noted that the  text of these draft amendments’ had been communicated to ‘the Member Statés in due time.
5.7 The Committee thought that it should also give the General Conference a legal opinion  on the following question: "Do the amendments proposed by Japan and Péri, if ‘adopted by  the General Conference, réquire subsequent accéptehée on the: part of two-thirds of the  Member States before they ¢ome into force, as involving new obligations for the Member  States, pursuant to Article XIII of the Constitution?"
5.8 At the conclusion of its debate on this question, the Committee, by 15 votes to five,  decided in the négative. Since the two-thirds majority of members present and voting re-  quired by Rule 33, paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure, was attained, the Committee  wishes to inform the General Conference that, in its opinion, subsequent acceptance is not -  legally ‘requitéd: ‘ ;  REE "+
5:91 Hôw fuck bitefly 16 the proposa aUbrittéd | by Malayéla and' Ceylon: 1 refef to péra-  graphs 19-26 Inclusive. Both were ‘discussed in the Committée and the representatives of  Malaysia and Ceylon took part. However, the representative of Malaysia informed the  Committee that document 15 C/DR .165, was to be regarded as,a communication expressing  his delegation's point of view and not as a draft amendment to the Board's proposals réquir-  ing a vote: by the General Conference. . . .. us
5. 10 : Thé representative of Eeylon stated that in the light ot. the “discussion in. the Legal  Committee’ he had decided to. withdraw his proposal, In these circumstances, the Com-  mittee did not need to deal further with the two proposals mentioned.
768   Sestôn'es plendrias / MXénäpnwé sacédanua XXVIIE
6,11 The Committee then’ turned its atféntiôn t é a formal ‘examination ot opérative para-'  graphs 2, 3'and 4 of ‘the Executive Board's draft resolution tnd as a. Yesult it suggested  some minor changes of phrasing. referred to'in ‘paragraph 27 of the’ report. i ;
5,12, During the: examination. of these texts, it was made clear that there was no presçribed  time «limit for the, presentation of draft amendments concerning the proposals by. the Execu-  tive Board which do not require an amendment to the Constitution and that, consequently, .  any such drafts could be presented up to the closure of the debate ° in the plenary Meeting  on the items on the agenda. . ' ; no  Lo FE +. oe ir 4 ze (ei ras ce Tate 2101pe dE ., .
5. 13 parigiaph 29L32 sotuëtve of the Committee's réport deal with operative: paragraph 4  of the draft resolution proposed by the Executive Béard; bearing on the ‘suspension‘ôf cer:  tain provisions of the Rules of Procedure and of the Rules for the Conduct of Elections by  Secret Ballot, In considering which'provisions should be suspended, the Committee, by 16 -  ‘Votes to one,’ with three’ abstétitions; supported a’ proposal that both’ a'list of the rules  affeéted by thé special provisions contained in Arinex VI of document 15 C/24, dnd an'addi+  tional clause of & géneial nature should bé included in ‘thé text of operativé paragraph 4:0f  the Board's proposal. This’deciston 1s incorporated in the text of paragraph 4 as it appears  in Annex I to the Committee's report. It should be noted that ohly those provisions incom -  patible with the special provisions proposed would be suspended.  Lor gts  from taking a decision in this matter which would apply also at its tenn géssion, it  being understood that the General Conference, at its sixteenth session, would be in a posi-  tion to examine the ‘question and, if it’ deemed fit; take other décisions.
5.16 The special provisions governing the: procedure for the election of members of the  Executive Board in 'Annex VI ‘of document 15 C/24 were then examined by the Committee  which, however, reached no decisions. ' As regards the discussion in:the Committee, I  beg to refer to paragraphs 33-39 inclusive of the Committee's report which include some  mainly minor changes. in the wording of the proposals .  ta" 5
5. 16 Pafagraphis’ 40- 50. incluaty % “of a Cominittee's réport ‘deal ‘with the’ question of  whether the Getieiral Contatéise, ‘voting se] paratély ôn, parts ôf a proposal, céuld arrive  at a constitutional text whi ch _was rit a both from’ the’ status quo and fom the proposals  _ submitted within the’ required time Umit.  Lu m4 A . .
5. 17 ‘References were made duririg the debate to Rule 85 of. the ‘Rules of Procedure entitled  lSeparate'vote'*; and also toithe provisions for the amendment to the-Constitution in  Article XIII, paragraph 1 of the Constitution. and in’ Rules 103 and» :104 of the Rules of Pro-  cedure of the General Conference RE à a  Cet ts  Pr ete {ht eo RUT Co. NTE
5.18 After a Cisnaihy fig oy oh is issue Just tet fo the’ Conitilttée “decidèd'tô‘put  to the voted text & égested bY the répreséntative of Fri ahéé ‘Yné text] Which: fé'ihéluded in  paragraph ¢ 41 of thie Committee ts *épott Kéads”âé follow! (1) Ras’ 88 18’ {ni torddtand’ any  delégaté car théréfôre Fequést à ‘aéparate" voté éfparté of à proposals” (2) There's aré no  legal grounds for ts Buéh i bl request ‘Provided’ that the ‘prôcedutë’ for the alkénidment  of the Constitution ‘3 16" riot’ involved, d. (3) However, Rule 85 cannot ovérride the’ specific  prévisions of ‘Rul 13 105'¥6°10 ë, ahd 1 5 ‘sépi dvste ) voie wet to Tead to the liitrodüétion, in  the draft ameéndments’ vétetrèd | té in’ Rule He of a subbtantive change” which Had Hot' been.  communicated t6’ Meïbèr States ‘1H’ advaice, that ‘éénge Would best Virtance with the  proyisions” of Rule 104)’ (4) The, only décéèièn when this’ does not apply toa ‘ éeperâté vote
18 ‘when such a vote merely. ‘results ih Introduclig into the text uridér, disélaslon’ ‘an amend  ment of form within thé nieaning ôf Rule 106 and Rule 106". °°
789   XXVIII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
5,19 . The voting on this proposal is recorded in paragraph 49 of the Committee's report.  Thé text as a whole was approved by 17 votes in favour, none against, ant three absten-  tions, the two-thirds majority ‘being secured, It therefore constitutes an ‘opinion of the  Legal Committée.
5.20 Lastly,’ the’ Committee décided that it ought to tender advice to the Géneral Confer-  ence regarding the’ Tigjority fieéded in’ Plenary session for the adoption of the proposals :  submitted to the Conference both ‘jtém by fterri'and ‘as à whole, Here I réfer to Paragraphe
51-62 friciuSive" of ‘the Committee's report: *Thid advice corresponds to the:prodedure  proposed by the President in document 16 C/INF.9. I just have oné point'to make here: the’  Legal Committee did not express an opinion regarding the majority which would be required  for the adoption of sub-paragraph (ç) of the Board's proposals, Here I refer distinguished  delegates to paragraph 56 of the Committee's report. -
6. 1 Le PRESIDENT, SET ;  .Je remercie.le Président du Comité juridique. Je constate que 1e rapport de ce comité  ne : comporte pas de propositions soumises à la Conférence générale, mails présente,  comme celuli,de la Commission administrative, une série d'avis et de conseils destinés à  guider. la Conférence au cours de ses débats et en ce qui concerne la procédure à suivre,  Il n'a donc pas à être formellement adopté en séance plénière : la Conférence générale de-  vra simplement en prendre note, [
6.2 En, vue d'éclairer le débat qui va 8! engager, je crois utile de préciser, d'ores et déja,  quels'sont les textes sur lesquels 1a Conférence’ générale doit, en définitive, se prononcer,  Ils ‘agit des {textes suivants :
(1) deux projets d'amendéments à-l'ârticié V, paragraphe 2, de 1'Acte’ constitutif, pré-  sentés respectivément par le Japon et le'Pérou, Ces déux projets sont, én réalité,  identiques en tous points et ont été rassemblés dans le document 15 C/25, Ils pourront  faire l'objet d'un seul et même vote, Je signale cependant que les versions russe et  française ont été légèrement amendées, ‘dans leur forme, par le Comité juridique et  c'est sous cette fornie amendée que ces projets seront mis aux voix.  RS ;  ) of
(2) le projet de résolution soumis par le Gonsell exécutif, ‘qui est présenté, comme, je  l'ai dit au début de cette séance, en exécution de la résoluilon adoptée par la Confé-  fau f Fede ae  et le Règlement sur les élections au scrutin secret, ainsi qu'un classement des Etats  ‘membres en éinq groupes électoraux;-en'vüe' de l'élection-des membres du'Corseil  exécutif. Ce'classement devra-d'ailleurg.être revisé pour tenir compté de l'admissièn  - de trois nouveaux Etäts-membrèes'à/l'Organisation,- ’ -. 1 are od .  Les seuls projets. d'amendements a 1'Acte constitutif sur losquels la Côntéfence géné-  rale peut se prononcer sont donc, d'une part, ceux qui sont présentés par le Japon et  le Pérou, d'autre part, ; :les propositions soumises par. le Conseil exécutif. Selon les  … dispositions. du Règlement intérieur ,rappelées, dang l'avis. -du Comité juridique, aucun  amendement de fond à. ces. .amendements | n'est plus. recevable et, ne pourra être exa-  - miné, Quant | aux. “propositions qui avaient, été. préséntées tant par la Malaisie que par.  Ceylan, elles, ont, été retirées par leurs auteirs, Co 2h PL +2 a, 3  RET : (ER) [ont  L'e Ps + 3 : IEE
3) ‘une rolaième reposition s sl pééaeritée 1 par. ir l'Inde, ie Japon ; et {e'Népai." Eile, tait,  . l'objet:du “document 15 C/DR/PLEN/5- Rev. Elle n'affecte en- rien. l'Acte constitutif où  les ,réglements -et tend, simplement à inviter le Éonseil ‘exécutif à  ‘Budier | les résultats  - “du système des groupes électoraux, ‘et la question | de ja durée” du. mandat des membres  ‘ du Consefl, et a fairé rapport ‘à'la “Conférence générale a une prochaine. session. pile  sera mise ‘aux voix séparément, aprèg le vote ‘des autres textes. oa            ot 0038 CH
6,3 Avant que ne s'engage le débat, : je crois utile d'annoncer que le Bureau de la .Confé-- .  rence à accepté le principe de la ‘mise aux voix d'une question préalable, ‘aprés la clôture  de ce devat.  TTI TRAN ES ) TEN UU
6,4 ‘En, effet, commé le Président- au Comité juridique l'a indiqué, oe ‘comité’ s'est posé. ia  question de, savoir.gi l'adoption d'un, amendement à l'Acte-constitutif est une, condition, né-.;  cessaiie à; l'établissement du ‘systéme’ des groupes éléctoraux proposé, par le Conseil, Bien  qu'une majorité deg membres du. Comité juridique. se soit: prononcée par: la négative,, cette  majorité n'est pas la. majorité qualifiée, c'est-à-dire la majorité des deux tiers qui était :  requise par le Règlement pour que le comité donne valablement un avis, À défaut.d'un avis  du Comité:juridique sur cette question, il est donc normal que j'invite la Conférence géné-  rale à se prononcer elle-même. La décision de la Conférence générale sur ce point n'exi-  gera que la majorité simple.
6. 5 -Je me résumé : ‘à l'igaue du, débat, a Conférence générale sera i appelde’ %, voter, à aus. .  une question préalable,. la question de savoir .si un amendément a l'Acte’ constitutif est une  condition nécessaire à l'établissement du.système des groupes électoraux proposé par, le .  Conseil exécutif, En:cas de réponse négative à cette question. préalable: - clest- a- dirersi ‘  la Conférence estime. qu'un amendement;à l'Acte constitutif n'est pas nécessaire -- je de- :  manderai aux délégués du Japon et du Pérou s'ils maintiennent leurs projets d'amendements  ou s'ils les retirent. Si ces projets sont retirés, nous passerons au vote sur les proposi -  tions du Conseil exécutif. a , ‘ : . F5 to gt  ‘ PEERS FEET SIR LN 5 Xd
6,6 En, cas “de réponse, affirmiätive. à, la question préalable, je mettrai aux voix les, piojits ;  d'amendements présentés par le Japon: et le Pérou et si ces arendements, ‘sont adopiés, Je  mettral aux “voix: les propositions du Conseil exécutif.’ Si ,,par, contre, - ces projets d'anien-  dements sont ‘rejetés, il ne pourra, être procédé au vote, sur les pr opositions | du. Consé 1 exé-  cutif relatives a l'introduction du. .système deg groupes électoraux. Seules, ‘seraient’ ‘alors. {  mises aux voix, dans cette hypothèse, les propositions du, Conseil xécutif concernant le oy  nombre des membres du Conseil et la durée de léur mandat, c'ést-â-dire les septiolis 1 (a)  et (b), 2 et 3 du dispositif du projet de résolution figurant à l'annexe V du document 15 C/24,  à l'exclusion des sections. 1 del « et 4. Ce Ls gy ]  EE  senté par le Conseil exécutif, i 4e NE 4.
6,8 Cela dit, 1a dsouaston est ouverte et je donne la parole a s; fio. M, ‘Suyaina, ‘chef de  la délégation du Japon, ; ‘
2.1 M, “suŸ) MA: (Taps). Te ars Eo  Monsieur 1& ‘Président, Mesdames, Messléÿiré | les aisies je vus) remercie, {reg fn-  cèrement d'avoir accepté que, conformément la recommandation du Buirçau € de la Cont i  rence générale touchant la. procédure, à adopter, nous commencions Par nous, prononcer, sur  la question juridique. suivante fun amendement à l'Acte. constitutif est-il ou ‘Yon nécessaire  pour que puisse, être adopté ie, système, de groupes électoraux défint, dans, I dogument :
7.2, Comme son, pists Yyient à de’ A) is Sie, le. Comité fie a idk spas” f  être en mestire dé, donner? à 1a Confé 3rerice gé ale un; avis sur ce point, sep dees nembres  ayant estimé que, Jadite nécessité ‘existait et treize = ‘autres au'elle 7 n lexiatait pas, Comime 25.  vous vous’ en souvenez, :gértainemenit, \ fons leur, le; Président, ‘j'ai (déclaré Jôré duobel; 5.  préliminaire; que le Japon, serait) prêt à “relier la propoaitjon ‘ui se, ‘trouve re  l'annexe, It, du .docurient 16. C25 si la, Conférence; générale, Jugealt Popaible d de  tème de grôupes, électoraux sans, modifier l'acte, constitutif. D'autre part, l'é mi inent, a  gué du Pérou,., M. Wagner de Réyna, qui prés de, en. ce. moment même l'une, des. sôus- 6 my  missions de la. Commission : du programme, m'a chargé de vous. faire. savoir. que le Pé qu-  TTL   XX VIII : Plénary meetings / Séances plénières  prendrait’ une position identiqué en ce’ qui € concerne la proposition qu'il ; a présentée « et qui  figuré à l'ânnèxe Idû’dècument'15-C/25j- ' 1 .
7,3 Vous pouvez donc, Monsieur le Président, considérer qu'il y a idendité non seulement  entre led texted des deux ‘in'étidenients à'l'Acté constitutif présentés respectivement: par  les gouvérments du’ Japon’ etdu' Pérou)” mais Aussi entre les positions que’ les délégafièns :  de ces’déiix pays ‘oft’ décidé ‘d'adopter; "Je tiens à répéter,» Monsieur’ le: Présidént, que le  Gouvernement di’ "Japon n'est nullément convaincu qu'uñ amendemeñt- à l'Acte' constitutif ‘  soit nééessäire pour introduire’ le système’ de groupes électoraux ! s'il a jugé approprié de  présenter un tel amendement, c'est simplement parce qu'il a'pensé que céla pourrait faci-  liter‘l'établissenient dudit système, même si celui- cine devait êtré institué qu'à titre pro-  visoire’ et expérimental. - mo
7.4 La délégation japonaise: apprécie vivement tout ce qui est dit au paragraphe 9 du docu-  ment16' C/né. “Les vues qui'ÿ soit ‘exposées sont parfaitement!valdbles et je'tléns à' de pro-  pos a félicitér-le Comité juridique € de son’ excelletit travail; A mon avis, Monsieur le Pré-  sidenty7l'ärticlé V;- ‘paragraphe 2; tde 1'Acte coiistitutif imposé aux Etats membres: unie série  d'obligations très diversesy-Si - Von examine de près-le texte de cet article, on copstate qu'il  préconise tout d'abord ün effort'visant a faire’ figirer au sein‘du'Coñséii éxécutif*” dés “per-  sonnalités coripétentes‘dahs le domaine des arts,  dés lettres; des sciencés, de l'éduéation  et de là diffusion de la peénsée et ayant l'expérience et la compétence nécessaires pour rém-  plir les fonctions administratives et exécutives qui incombent au Conseil", ‘A ‘qui d'obligs-  des’ porcine de ce type au dil au ‘Conseil sans qiie lea ‘Etats: ist alent: ‘a‘abord”  i  persona tee _,
7.5 Tellé est'la ‘prémière obligation imposée aux Etats érehibrtéé € ét cette ‘obligation, sich  le constatons, exige’ d'eux un effort. L'article V, paragraphe 2, impose ensuite à la Confé-  ‘réniée générale Une’ obligation’ d'une alitre’ nature, ‘puisqu'il prééise: qué’ Har Coiférence’ géné-  ralé "tiendrd “edhjite ‘égi alement de 1a’ divérsité des culties et d'une tépréséntation’ gebgra-  phiqiié’ équitable", tet*"il'he's'agit plus,” ‘Ménsiéir 1é Président; ‘d'in ‘effort à fälvé,' mais  d'une obligation catégorique, la Conférence étant tenue de prendre’ en { considération ia’ dt"  versité des cultures et d'assurer une’ représentation géographique équitable, Dans ces ‘con-  "ditions, 1 ést riormal de'cénsidérer qde l'Aûte cohstitutif confèré Aütpliéttement à la Cen-  férence générale lé droit d'établir une procédure grâce à laquelle ‘cette ‘obligatioh’ pourra ;  être remplie, Îl serait en effet impensable que 1'Acte constitutif imposât' une obligation ‘à  la Conférence généralé et la priyât dea moyens de remplir cette obligation.” Telle est, à  “mon avis, l'intérprétariôn à doñiner, én Yoceurience, a à l'Acte conétitutif.  res [RECITES ETE LE SN 154 Lt EE  La dé16gation Jierate considère" ‘que le système des’ groupes électoraux ôffriait un!  bye ‘éftiédéé et réaliste ‘d'assurer l'éxécdution de cette 6bligation ; ‘et’ jlen Arrive’ étriat a  la’ ‘éonéluston qu'itn! est pas métegsaite de' modifier l'Aété constitutif pour Introdutré le sys-  tème dé groupés électoraux défini dans le document 15 C/24.  V'Mohsiëur r le] PRA) i jé’vouarais “maintenant Eborder” undo"dutsstion très ——  " TE Vouarate poser, utie ‘question précise au ‘Soua?Dirédteür genérut pour les ‘Hotmés tht  ternät{ônalés’ ‘ét lès affaires’ juridiques; Por ‘cela il} me faut a'abord téürnir quelques ins  dicatisné” sûr les. positfons'qu'oit décidé de! plétidre- les: Etats’ ‘iemblreéd’ d'Aglé Ces Etats  sont,’ saut érreur dé ma part, ‘lina nifnéfrient d'accord OX ‘deùx “pôlfits. “Prétnièrèment; Né.  ‘sont “dnäntinement fäVorables & 1a ecorimändation: du ‘Conseil exécutif selon ldquélie 14 Coh-  tétèlicé ‘générale devrait,” tomme ile est Mndiqué ai paragraphe 1 (6) du’ projet ‘dë'résolutioh  proposé + son approbation dais le docufnent 15’ C/24; annexe v, décider “d'établir; à titré  prôvisoire ‘et'expérimental pour lès ‘quinzième et séiztème’ sessions un’ Système de groupes
713   Sesiones plenarias / Maenapuoe 3acedanss XXVHI  électoraux entre lesquels sont répartis:les Etats membres.qui régirauniquément les élec:  tions du Conseil exécutif!!, ‘Je viens de parlér du paragraphe 1 (¢) male, à partir'de main-  tenant; je me, conformerai- ada terminologie adoptée dans le- document 15 C/INF/9 et’ em*  ploierai toujours le mot.!'seètion” de préférence au mot ' ‘Paragraphe”, Le EL 124  er a8 310 au 48 1 TS at Na CURE SLI JETER: So ats Lt ni !
7, 8 Deuxièmement, : len Etats membres d'Asie sort également unanimement d'accord.pour  augmenter:le nombre des membres du Conseil exécutif et-le porter‘à 34, En revanche,{l1-  y a,. Monsieur le Président, un troisième point sur: lequel la convergence'de vues n'est pas  réalisée.; je veux parler de la.durée du mandat des membres du Conseil exécutif, iCértaines  délégations estiment qu'il-faudrait porter cette durée à six ans, tandis.que d'autres déléga-  tions souhaiteraient que l'on;s'en tint au statu quo,. c'est-à-dire'à un mandat de quatre ang  avec rééligibllité immédiate pour un second mandat de quatre ans. À cet égard;'je-guis ré-  connaissant à, Monsieur:le Président, ‘ainsi qu'au Bureau'de la Conférence générale; d'avoir  recommandé que le vote sur la résolution présentée par le Conseil exécutif se fasse par di-  vision ; chaque délégation pourra ainsi, lors du vote sur la section 2, faire connaître net-  tement sa position en ce qui concerne la durée. du'mandat des membres du Conseil exécutif,  LÉ rv = dev, Ve at 4 > Lt Torah oaT 1 +
7, 9 Il importe cependant que toutes les délégations i se : rendent b bien compte des conséquénées  qu ‘auront les votes successifs auxquels il va être procédé si, comme je le pense, la "divi-  sion" est effectivement demandée, : : :  CEREAL PA 58 EEE SE € LE 44 RATE SE : :
7. 10, ‘Monsieur. le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs; ‘je: me permets. d'attirer votre atten-  tion sur le.document 15 C/24, annexe V,-où figure la résolution que le Conseil exécutif re-  commande à la Conférence d'adopter et je vous prie de bien vouloir vous reporter à la sec-  tion 2 de cette résolution: ( page 11 du document 16 cla), CEE
7,11. La Conférence générale sera’ d'abord appelée à vôter sûr. la section 2 2 (a) et: sur cla -  seconde partie de la section 2: (c) qui; si elle est adoptée, pourrait devenir le paragraphe
14 de'l'article V de 1'Acte constitutif; Pour ma-part;-‘je souhaite que ces deux sections -  soient approuvées à 1'unanimité. La Conférence 'devra-ensuite: voter sur 1a section 2 b) ;  - où il est prévu que les mémbres-du Coriséil exécutif seront désormais élus pour six ans  et ne seront pas immédiatemerit rééligibles -‘et sur la prémière partie de la seotion'2 (è)  où il est quéstion de la disposition transitoire (alinéa 13) ‘qui serait applicable, en matière  de rééligibilité, aux’ membres actuele du Conseil, EE '  EASE Ada gf De D nt - es EE
1. 12- Monsieur le. Président; si le résultat de ¢ ce. e‘dernièr vote était négatif, Sa y! aukaît in:  probléme. juridique a. résoudre. eri èé: ‘qui concerné les’ “élections'au- Conseil: ‘exécutif. lors de  la seizième session de la’ Conférence générale, Jé prétise bien que ce n'est pag mainte rt  nant; mais lors de la seizième- ‘session de-là Conférence générale que ce problème. Be,po-"  serait. Je me place, je le précise encore, dans l'hypothèse où la-section 2 (b) tila presi  mire partie (alinéa 13) de la section 2 (c) seraient rejetées, alors que la section 2 (a) et  la ‘deuxième partie (alinéa 14) de la section 2 fo) auraient été adoptées; ©: > ©‘ nF i  set His far fus LP races CI : ti she
7.13 Je ne trouve en effet dans le ‘rapportidu Comité. juridique aucune indication claire sur  ce qul se passerait dans cette éventualité, bien que la question me paraisse - d'après le  paragraphe 48 de ce rapport - avoir été Évoquée. . ERR :  _ . 1 FRE - ’
7.14 Je me permettral ‘donc d'exposer mes propres. vues sur ce point et de vous dernan-  der, Monsieur le Président, d'inviter le Sous-Directeur général pour, les nérmes Intérña-  tionales et les affaires juridiques À nous faire savoir si son: avis edfnelde” ‘aveoile mien, »  ! ; os I § EF [A
7.15 Dans l'hypotlèse que je viens de mentionner, le paragraphe 3 de l'article V de l'Acte  constitutif demeurerait en vigueur, ¢ependant que le:paragraphe 13 de ce ménié article 'sé-  rait rempldcé par le.texte qui figure à l'alinéa 14 de la section 2 du ji projet de résolution qui  sè trouve à l'annexe: v. du ‘documeht 15 C/24. HR Le SNH 1  ER Cone VS I RT ON IS “1 ey et A
7.16: La Conférence générale devrait idonc;. à sa. présente session, “procéder à l'élecfion de
19 membres du Conseil exécutif, qui se: trouverait’ ‘ainsi composé de'34 membres; Cela ne
773 .   XXVIII : Plenary meetings / Séances pléniéres  poserait ‘en’ sol a] jeun ‘problème, ‘Maïs il: convient de rémarqüer que ‘la dernière phrase du’  pardgraphé 3 de 1 article. 'V. de 1'Acte:constitutif demeurerait en vigueur: Or, cette phrase  stipule que !"le Conseil eat renouvelable pan moitié tous les deux ans"! - disposition qui se  révélerait {riapplicable lors de la seizidme session de la Conféretice générale; Ed effet; les
15 membres élus A la quatorzièmé session arriveront alors au terme de leur mandat, tan-  dis que.le. mandat des 19 membres que. l'on va yraisémblablement’ avôir:à élire à la pré:  sehte ‘session ne séra:pas: ‘terminé. On se trouverait ‘donc en présence d'une difficulté pour  l'eltrination de laquelle rien ne peut’ être’ ‘fait au cours de la présente : ‘gessiori,: attendu  qu'audin texté de modifiéation au projet d'amendement en‘cause n'a été communiqué: aux  Etats’ niembres, troisimois au moins a'l'avarice, comine il ést prévu à l'article 104‘ du” Rè-  glement intérieur: Il serait, en revanche, possible de se débarrässer de cette difficulté à  la séizième'session dé la Conférence:générale si un nouveau prôjèt d'amendément à*l'Acte  constitutif était communiqué aux Etats: membres six mois au moins avant l'ouvérture de  cette séizième Fussion, - : ©  ta a 11 x > * y + i . - ; ;
7:47; Je regrette, Monsieur le Président, “d'avoir pris à la Conférence générale un temps:  précicux, mais jé souhaiterais vraiment connaître sur ce point l'avis du Sous- -Directeur  général pour les normes internationales et les affaires: Juridiques. : pot
7. 18 J'en viens maintenant au ‘troisième point que je voulais aborder Ils ‘agit pour moi  de présenter le document 15 C/DR/PLEN/5 Rev. En ce qui concerne le paragraphe I, son  contenu est le même que celui du projet de résolution 15 C/184 qui avait été présenté par  les délégations de l'Inde et du Japon; les différences ne portant que sur. ia forme,  t a Ar = 2 1 el 5 stage
7, 19 En ce qui éoncerhe 1 le paragraphe I ‘du projet dé résolütion: is. C/DR/PLEN/S Reva  que j'ai l'honneur de présénter au nom des délégations de l'Inde, du Japon et du Népal, il  permettrait,‘ à mon avis, de faire face à des éventualités diverses, Je n'ai pas éu le temps  de ‘me consulter .ce matin a aves mes éolègués.>Je prends donc sous ma seule responsabi-  lité les rémarques. que je vais maintenant formulér, La: rédaction de ce "paragraphe IIa été  métivée par les raisons exposées en bas'de page dans la noté n°.3 ; cepéndanht; ‘à mon avis  personnel, ce paragraphe conserverait son utilité.mênie si la Conférence gériérale n'aécep-  tait pas ‘que, la durée du’ mandat des membres ‘du Conséil- soit. portée à: six : ‘ans; “J'ai déjà  parlé de: la nécessité ‘dans: laquelle on setrouverait- de Modifierl'Acte constititif si la durée  du mandat était maintenue à quatre ans et le nombre des: membres. du Conseil porté à 34,  Dans uné ‘pareillé'éVentualité, ce paragraphe pourrait, a supposer ‘qu'il ait êté ‘adopté’ par  la: Conférence’ générale, ‘jouer un rôle utile, car la disposition contenue: dans la deriiière  phrase- -du- ‘paragraphe 3 de l'article V-de l'Acte constitutif pourrait étre considérée comme  faisant partie ‘des”dispositions relatives à-la durée du mandat dès membres: du Congeil,! Je  demande donc à la Conférence générale d'examiner avec bienveillance ce document. 15 a/  DR/PLEN/5 Rev... . = PS - .  Lee : I a ;
7, po Avañt de tetminer; ‘ Je ‘souhaite, Monsieur le Président; ‘me réservér la possibilité  de reprendre ultérieurement la parole, “notamment pour indiquer sur * quels points nous  voudrions ue le vote se’ fasse © par appel noniinal, ‘ ‘
1 = 3 Re = T 1
8.2 :Avant- de donner la parole aux autres ‘orateurs: inscrits," ‘je ‘rois devoir inviter 1 1e Sous-  directeur général pour:les normes internationales et les affaires. juridiques à répondre à .  la uestion posée par M. Suyama.
9, 1 Ma SABA (sous: -directeuf général); fll RATES  or : Mohsteur le Biésident, ‘ “je veux tout. d'abord refidre hommage ‘à l'esprit juridique etd’  la précision de 14° ‘pensée ‘de M. l'ambässadeur. Suyama. Ila posé‘ une’ question: cénéernant  la contradiction, plus: apparente que réelle; qui existerait entre le paragraphe 3 de l'ar-  .ticle:V.de 1'Acte conatitutif:--si cet article demeurait sous sa -forme actuelle par suite.du ‘  rejet éventuel par la Conférence générale de certaines des propositions conténues dans le’
774   Séstones plenarias / Häénapnie 5aceoanns XXVIII  projét'd'amendément préseñté-par 16 Coñseil‘etécutit - &f 1e paragraph’ 14 Git’ fighre sous  le titre "Dispositions tratisitolres” dans ‘ces mêmes propositions (decuiniént 15°C [24] an-
1 v neo CL ' AGE pass PE aed Can BY Carded Canin a 3 shine BERYL
9,2 En effet; la disposition contenue au paragraphe. 14, à laquelle M, Sujama s'est référé  et qui, dans l'hypothèse qu'il à-posée, serait acceptée par la Conférence générale, afipule  ace fF  mieux, à un certain moment, supprimer toute référence à ce renouvellement par moitié  AYRES A 2Y SER  système quelconque qui permettrait de revenir au renouvellement par moitié.
9.3 Je nilexcubé dela complexité'mémé deice que: je viens de dire, mais’je répète qu'il -  n'y a pas actuéliernent dé: difficulté ‘essentielle”d'ordre juridiqu . Il s'agira plus tard, si  l'hypothèse à laquelle s'est référé l'ambassadeur'Suÿàama se vérifie, d'opérer une tollétte  des textes - ces textes devant être appelés à être définitifs, Pour l'instant, il n'y aurait  pas de difficülté,. puisque‘les dispositions transitoirés ont pour’caractère’et poub objet. ‘ ‘  d'apporter une éxception provisoire’ aux règles énoncées dans d'autres dispositions de -  l'Acte constitutif. + - CT : PET ETES TS     - 4 - ro. - ’ «7 y Ce 1 Ee, os, . ; Co Lo. ; LA Le sr 141 SAT
10,1 Le PRESIDENT,- -  ...-locca 0 oe TS NE RAS nd ne a ii  Je remercié le Sous-Directeür général pour les normes internationales et les affaires  juridiques, Jé pénsé que sa réponsé'doriné satisfaction au chef de la délégation du Japon.’  En tous cas, je créis que, Même 81 celui-of n'éta t pas datisfaft dans l'immédiat, 11 s'est’  assuré, dans le texte du'projet de résolution 15 C/DR/PLEN/5 Rev: qui est signd par 16°  ‘Japon, une ‘clause ‘de sauvegarde dul permettrait de remédier à toute‘ possibilité de’  contradiétion, D à i . + = Tara HT + TC LE ET 1 ND =: red HEC *  TB   AXVIII ; Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
10.2. Ayant de Wg A parole au prochain orateur inscrit, je demanderal aux honorahles  délégués: ‘d'observer même courtoisie et la même discipline dont ils ont. fait preuve ors  du débat de politique générale en évitant de trop longues -interyentions, De nombreux. ora-.  teurs sont, déjà Inscrits et je. rappelle que trois séançes seulement sont prévues pourle pré-  sent débat, . à ; ;Ç , v
10, 3 Je donne Ia parole à s. Exe. M, De Silva, ‘chet de la délégation de Ceylan,
11.1" Mr, DE SILVA (Ceylon); ;  Mr, President, ‘your ‘excellénoies,: ladie 8 Land gentlemen, | on beheld of the ‘delegation  of Ceylon, I wish to, pay high tribute to the Chatrman. and the members:of the. Legal Com-  mittee for their draft second report contained in document 15 c/ LEG/? 2 and’ we appreciate  the manner in which they have discharged their duty in.a very difficult situation. ‘ ‘  FRY] : ps rite 5 VèE FRITS SE [SO I TRITLI
11, 50 al ‘he. Conference 18; now (gonaidering, the resolution contained | in "Annex; | i of ‘document
15 G/L $G/2 regarding changes in the composition of the Executive Board, These changes.  have been proposed by H,E, Mr, Suyama of Japan and Dr. Kirpal of India, distinguished  men representing two great nations of Asla, Let us examine the reasons which have led to  the‘ present réview of this ‘situation, ’ Thé fourtéénth session’ of ‘the General: Conférence  considered that’ the « compost sition of the Executive Board should be reviewed by the’ Executive  Board 86 as to ehsure an equitable,’ ' balanced ‘répresèritation” ‘of, the various ‘cultürés’ and  geographical ‘regions; ‘bearing iu mind that ‘Mémbérs elected to the Board should also bë  persoiis’ ‘with experience and competence ’ In'the fields proper’ to Unesco, in accordance  with Ane ‘apte ‘and letter of Article V.A,2 of the Constitution. _ n
11, 3 Hog bialion 14 ‘e/r; “péralptepn: vit, 25, ‘Yeads in’ ‘park; ingaiiig ih md, oder  that half the ‘number ‘of Merdbét States. have HeVér bean eleétéd'to ntetibekship' of the, ‘Exécu-  tivé’ Bard", the‘ Exécutiÿe’ Board was charged’ ‘to consider this’ situation and the “preséht  proposals ‘aré thé Work of the ‘two’ distinguished réprésentatives trom Aja,” It'js'd source  of satistaction’ that the number of Stâtes in Unesco has increased’ overt the past few years:  thrée have heer added’ since’ thig ‘Conference opened ‘and the figure i now ‘stands at’ 125,
11, 4 ‘Let us corigidsr the various” [measures rng In" ‘the récoläiton “whith has’ been  NEE)  will véteciné those proposals. |
11.5 We are grateful to the’ Vikecitive Board for ‘proposing these measures, but thé pro-  posal to extend the term of office from four years to six years contained in paragraph 1 (b)  of the draft resolution contained in Annex I of 15 C/LEG/2 is unacceptable to the Ceylon  delegation and I am’ glad to say unacceptable to the majority of the 19 Asian States who  would prefer the term of. office to be four years. - :
11, 6. Mr Suyema, in his opening address, indicated. that the Asian States had some doubt  on this point, On Saturday night, -the 19 Asian States met and decided by. a majority that  we were in favour of the four ~year term. And may I say Ifeel it is to ‘the credit of Dr. Kirpal -  and the Indian delegation that, although Dr. Kirpal is in favour of six years, they have  intimated their willingness to go along with the majority.  ; sit 2a,
11, i] T hope. 1 may. say that the Asian States now- face ‘this. Conterence, united, ‘and. 1, éppeal  to the African and Arab States ‘and ‘other developing countries to stand united. in favour, of,  the four-year. term of office. It is the view of my delegation that the extension’ of the term  of officé to'six years is a retrograde step and the members of the, Board seem to have over-  looked the mandate given by the General Conference to devise a better method of election to
776   Sesiones plenarias / nex puose sacedansa XX VIII  ensure amore equitable representation on the Board whereby half the membership who have  so far. failed. to, be elected will;haye an opportunity tobe’ represented, The Executive Board  should eyen have considered reducing the term of: office | to two years, That;is, gne. simple,  way of achieving what is wanted; We have asked. the Exegutive Board to, ‘work out a gcheme  so that the "have-nots! will be "haves! in the foreseeable future, This, cannot he, done; by :  increasing the term from four years. to gix years. The, only solution is to reduce, the term  to two years, As a representative of one of the undeveloped nations, I would remind my.  friends from Africa, from Asia, and the Arab States, that we must fight fer our rights .  ome ih in ve arts, cibles e the a Slencen, gas SE on  As you are aware, Artlels, A, 2, Hh thé on a tha, et does not oy ihe recy  mnt  of one of the two super-powers of the world, is-elected for only ‘tour years. Those of us  who are appointed as Ambassadors serve for only three years. . « © x  . ? : A. + Ve a ta Tu + 2% € #5 Graf 1 ME
11,9 ‘Let us’ try to! ‘observe the: spirit of ‘vntaté: ‘’and not éfgaté: a bugekiorssy ot western  interests in oùr Orgahization,” Has the “Executive Board dise harge: ite’ ity In'this'respect -  to’ your satisfaction? *This'is'nét a legal’ ‘Tssüè, let there be no confusion. The’ ‘furtedhith  session of thé General Conference requested the Executive ‘Board tô evolvé : a ’metfiod of  quicker rotation, but has it suggested any way of doing so?  i
11, 10 It. is our view, that the’ "Executive, ‘Board has. ‘not’ carried out. this mandate, I ould  urge that we request | ‘the Executive Boaid to reconsider; the ‘matter and to, report to the  sixteenth session of the Géneral Conference with proposals to ‘achieve | our objective, per-  haps by reducing the term of f office from four | to two years or by intréducing a system of  rotation. - '  ‘ [EE SE SCAT » 2°} {> VIS ra “ î
11,11 Rejératrig'aéédih ét 15 ©/à6; “which has, been plied bétors' van by Tan and DoF, -  we of the Ceylon’ ‘delégation sHdré the Ÿlew'of HAE. Mr; “Suyamià that | té ‘introdiice’ Feglonal ‘  grouping doés fot thvolve any aniéhdment to thé ‘Coñetitütion bédause this concept is implicit’  in Article V7A,2 of thé’ Constitution. Aiiendnients are réquirea only’ Wwhéh | view ‘procedüres ‘  are adopted to give effect to the very specific obligations of that Article. "Mr. Suyama has  explained why the introduction of the regional system does not involve ¢ an amendment and  the Ceylon’ delegation’ endorses his view,  [BR Fa [EE  Fi a*344 15H
11,12 "Regarding | the draft’ resolution 1s C/DR/PLEN/5). submitted by India, Japan. and  Nepal, I would ask why we should walt until the sixteenth and seventeenth session of the  General Conference .; Let ug consider that we are conducting an experiment and at the next  session see what has been achieved and what are the drawbacks,
11,13 It might be contended, ‘that’ ‘the. reglonal grovping involves, a ‘curtailment, of the: free: '  dom of voting of Member States in that the Member States are called upon to vote regionally...  The answer. of the Ceylon delegation À is that regional grouping. is, implicit in ‘Article’ Ÿ A2  in our Constitution, which refers to. the representation of “geographical areas, fherefore, Ç  although in a sense regional voting could be interpreted as an infringement on the freedom:  of the vote, this does not really matter since, within the framework of the Constitution, we  are governed by this specific xequirement. I respectfully submit that Article V.A,2 implies ;  that. there. should be some form of regional grouping. system, ; and I ‘might ‘add that every .  election involves, some curtailment of freedom. In the view of. the Ceylon delegation, there  is no substance in the. argument ‘that any real infringement of the, freedom. of, voting is  involved. NS
777   XXVIIT Plenary meétings / Séances plénièrés
17 /14 On béhalf of the Céylon ‘delegation; I would ask, Mr, President, that a voté be taken  oli‘ thé resolution béforo’us under Rule 86 of the: Rules of! Procedure, "For its ‘part’ ‘the  Céyloh delegation is quite satisfied withthe status ‘quo. ‘We would ‘rather have four years  with "the" right té’re- -election than’six years, ‘Our view is that the present system is a’  hundiréd times’ bétter than thé proposed six-year term, At the'énd of four years we ‘can  choose, ‘and; if we Wwish'reject, at the seme time infusing’ new blood by sending'a new  representative to’ Unesco.  pes sry 1 à
12, Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de Ceylan et je donne la parole à M, Sohakine, au  nom de la délégation de l'Union, des républiques socialistes soviétiques,  ' ‘
13, 1 B, Ki ‘COBAKHR (Éobs CôseroxhX Côujiantiéruueoxux Pecny6juik):"  ; TER fipéacéaérenr, Tipexne em nepenti_ K lcymectBy HAXOAA LHXCA Ha paccMorpeHHu  pégepanihoi kouqepéhituit fipoéxroé ‘pésoniounil ito ‘Bonpocy o cécTane’ HohonHrénéHoro  cometa, CObéTCKké# Réneratjna xorèna Gut O4YeHb Kparkô OCTAHOBHTÈCA Ha Bonpoce o BO3HHK-  Homi sTon npoônèmei,  IEEE Per A : . Lo v FEY
21 un 22 oKTa6ps, HeKOTOpH H3 BHICTYNaBUWHX NbITaAHCh-AOKA3aTh, TO HednpaneAiHBOe oo  pacnpejie/leHHe MecT B HononuWrebHoM copeTe AKo6nt OÔTACHAGTOA HeAOCTATKAMH cyitecr-  Bylolleñ ( cHçreMsl BHÔOpOB, Ho passe, cymecray an ,cHcTeMa BBIÔOPpoB npHBesa, K 'HeAONpeA-  CTaB/I@HHOCTH, a3HaTCKHX, ad UKaHCKUX } ‘apa6ékux eTpaH?. Coscem HoT. | ‘Ora HeAOnpeAcTaB-  NEHHOCTE HMeeT TphuxHoë | Jin ° BHyTpeliHite 3aTPYAHEHHA HeKOTOPpHIX rpyün, Tocÿnapcrs, THEO.  pocT. 4neHcKoro cocTaBa. ‘Hameit Opranwaaunn. Passe MeAnéHHas, poTauna rooynapera- “AeHOB  B cocTaBe CoBeTa HMeeT KaKoe- HBO « OTHOMEHHE K chcTeMe BHGOPOB B Hcnonuutensusif, co-  Ber ? AGCONIOTHO HUKAKOTO, Mostomy,’ T-H lMpeacedaTent, MEL CuHTaeM, uro COBEpPINEHHO ’  HernpaBHABHO HCKATh BLIXOA U3 3aTpyAHeHHH C COCTABOM HononsurensHoro côpeTa HCKAOYH-  TéNbHO B péhopué chôrebei BÉÉOpos. Mwo6äa pehopma ‘atoil cHoTeMb He OKaXeT BANAHKA Ha  nogniHHse fipdunne " HeaneKBaTHÔro fipéAcTaBHTenbCTBa B CoBoTe, B TOM YHCAE H  Tpynnbi  colWanuorimeëkux cÉpan, °  Fa. or EE “oe i
13. 3 Pexomenaosanne HcCNonHHTe/1bBHEM COBETOM, npoexT pesonounn conepauT PRA nono-  XeHuit, HANpaB/eHHsX Ha uchipan,eHHe MeHCTBHT@/ABHBIX NPHYHH HEXOCTATKOB, [To HameMy  Rig so. ean cogras, Copera He ie yBennuen, ny NpSACTABHTENECTEO YKa3aHHBIX  rpyng, Focypapers, He MOXET, BHT yAyuymeHO BHe 3aBHCHMOCTH OT TOro, GyAeT HAH HeT BBE-  AeHa HYBaA CHCTEMA BHIÔOPOB, + Co  PE SEE ç
13.5 Yneïhtenne cocrana CoBeTa HeCKONLKO YCKOPHT POTaUHD YñeHOB YICHONHHTENBHOTO  coBeTa, HO He HACTO/bBKO, YTOGH MOXHO GrJIO Gb OrpaHHYHTHCA ato#t Mepoñ,
13. 6 Mu ‘rosé uto ‘Btonymanu BécbMa B3BONHOBaHHOE BHICTYNeHHE npeAcTabuTens néne-  raunx Uéfviona, noceA meHHoe TOMY ponpocy. CoseTckas Nerlereuns FOTOBA noAxepxaTh pasym-  Hoe coxpambrie € cpoka iontoMouxn | tGreHob HonoNHKTEABHOTO coserd,’ YTO MÔ3B01ÂT 6onbmémy  KosinuecTBy TOCYRaptTB- ‘YñeHOb H sa Gonee KOpoTKHH cpok HMETb cBoux npéacraburens B  HononnnrenbHoM oprane VHECKO,  - 1 -  PH sn TI A -. ; 20T1
13.7 Teriebt, r- il MpeAceadrons;- paspémüre nepeñru K rpérron ripoGnoite;  pomaphaiéton  B fipoekre pesonsuHH;' NpédorannènHoM HaM HonoshtreñshtiM cobeTom, * % BBÉACHHD Hosoi  ÉHCTEMEL BÉ16dpoB dñeHos HénonunrenbHoré copéra, Mo Hatremy MHeHHB, sTa’cHéreMa npeA-  cTaBafeT ¢obok HanumHee H naxe BPeAHOÈ MEPONPHATHE, YpenaTOÉ CEPLESHBIMEH nocneacr-  BHAMH,  . 718   Sesiones plénärtas /Haenapune sacedauua xxVvif
13,8 Nouemy: OHA 'HaZNIHA? TIOTOMY” yo npn Tipoashènsk MHHHMYMÉ ROGPOA BOAH éc'érépohu  HEKOTOPHIX rpyriti rocyRApeTe cymèctBy 0IRaR" chôteMd' Bbi6Opon; ‘OcHobaHHaa Ha)axeWibMen-  CKOM COTñamenNH, OGéctièyns HOpMÈApHGÉ NpeACTABHTOAbCTEO ésWatokux; ‘aH prKAHORHX HW :  apa6cekux OTpaH B Corere, CouvanhorhueckHe cTpahériiponsnak rakyb Hoôpÿn' Bonrs, Mei ie’  TO/LKO Ha CHOBAX; HO 1 Ha Rese nokasask, 4T0 He XOTHM’ KOHKYpHPOBATb © KaHJHAaTâMH Ha  passuBantuXoa CTpan,: He CTpéMHMCA YBOAUYHTE HAMe” npexerabWTeAboTko sa ux cuer, "Hors  cnpaBeaHBO nojaraeM; 4TO NPeACTaBHTEeNECTBO counanueFiyeckix cTpan’ B Cônere' He ÉGdOT*  BETOTBYOT TOMY BKRAAYs koTopsii STH cTpaHit BHOCAT B nentenbhôofs Oprartñsaiqtäi "  ‘ F5 C0 st A Le
13,9- ‘Bent Boe rpÿnéétoipai néotynñnn 6s1 atanornitsise 0o6pasom ie TOPKESTREOHHO 3ATBH-  nn 0 caoeñ FOTOBHOCTH TONOCOBäHHEM NOAtePXATL KAHANNATOB U3 ‘A3HETCKHX, ‘ad pHKAHCKUX'  H apaôckHx ctpan, | to He 6H AO Ont HHKaKxoi Heo6XOAHMOOTH B nepeomoFpé CHOTOMH BBIGOPOS  B Hz FONHUTENBHH coer, Cov ‘ vs
1330 B uém ‘Sobol, fio HameMy MHEHHD; onacHoëtx tipenñétéefroh HOBOR cucremif. Bit6o-  pos? Mpéxhe Béero a TOM, \ro‘onà Gÿnër chècoGoTaoBaTs réenbHub B'COBbT fipeActapure-  neit rdcydapére, 'Habpanite korôpix' ‘HenpHeMIEMO AAA nonäsnanutéro 6dhbmHHètra ylieHoB  IOHECKO, a Takxe B TOM; uTO OHa 6yAeT cnocO6ciBOBATL He oGtéauhèHhe; a padbesunenno  crpau-unexon Hamed Oprannsaunn. na Toro, 4T06b1 y6eAHTHCHA B 9TOM, AOCTATOYHO NPO-  anaHaHposaTs hpexñaraëMilä HOB MeXaHH3M BHÔOPOB, à He ‘orpaHi\ÿHsarhe#'T0NbKO '  TeOpeTHYECKHMH BLIKAAAKAMH no noBoAy opURHIeCKOH SHaŸHMOBÏH oTHx npemoxeHnh,
13.11 B COOTBETCTBHH C HOBBIMH npaBHAAMH He 6yAer GoJee ‘o6ixero CNHEKA kanañnatÿp  B HenonnurensHsii copeT, HO DyayT CYMECTBOBATB NATH CNKCKOB NO rpynnaM, Ans xaxnoù  rpynnil oTASNBHEIA chñcok KatAHAaToB, B kaxgsi H3 aTux CNHCKOB MOXET GbiTh BHeééHo
160 poBHO CTONBKO KaHAWAATOB, CKO/MbKO HMeeTCH ¢poGoauLIX MecT, nuGo 6onble KaHAHAa-  Toby ‘yéMm HMEETCA | eBOÔOZHBX Mec, -  . Ce Cu  ‘13,12 B tom ciiyuae, Korpa yncjio’ xandaTOR Symes” PaBHO YHciy CBOGOZHBIX' Pp ‘BCE  npejficTap/leHHble KaHAKAATH JOJIKHBI OHITH obasaTenbHO H36pänb TénepénsHéñ Konhépeiitthèñ,  XOTA CPE AU HUX MOTYT HAXOAHTBOH KaHAHAATH OT TOCYRAPCTB, *KOTOPHE B CHIY, HanpHMep,  cBOGH' pacHETCKON NONNTHRA ‘aBCONOTHO | HenpHeMJIeMbI “Ait Hohasnaimiero Gohbmintérsa Yé-  HOB’ Oprannsätnn, HO'MOANEpXHBA OTSA GPaBHUTENIEHO Heborbuon,-Hô chñovehñon Tpynrion,  Her HyxAbl ÿTOYHATL, KaKHe rOcyAap&rna Mul HMeeM' B BHAY. Ont BCÈM HôBÉGTHbl'H' 6e3 ‘oco-~
6x yToyHeHHH, B stom ¢nyvae I'énepanbhana KonhepeHyHa Gyger RbIHYXAEHA MPOBOAHTE ;
13,13 B TOM cnyuae, Koraa konuibeTno kaHAHAaTÔB 6yner NpeBbmaTb YHC/O CROÔOAHEIX  MecT, BpeFHsle NOCACACTEHR Hosoi 'éHcTeMbI bsi6opos GyayT HE MeHee aHaunTenbHbiMh, Heine  AeficTBy Vilas ¢HcTeMa BbHGOPOB CTHMÿnHpyeT MNOHCKH COPJAItEHHA BHY TPH Tpynn FOCYAAPCTE  H AÔTOROPEHHOOTB Méxay: passHuHHHH rpyinamH, Hèsas CHCTEMA He TONBKO NONHOCTHLX YHHU-  TOXaeT STOT CTHMY/, HO H CO3AÜET'GNarONpHATHHE YCHOBHA ANR NPOBOUNPOBAHHS pasHormachi  BHY TPM rpynn H Ansa 060oTpEHuA OTHOMEHHÀ Mexay TpynTaMH,
13,14 B chyyde BBeAeHHA HOBO cxéremnt, vocymaporaa, npeñosasusune CBOHX Kanmizatoh  B Hônonhurenbnsi COBET, AONXUEI GYAYT HCKäTb HONNÈPXKH HE CTONBKO BHY TPH’ rpynn, K  KOTODEIM OHH NpUHafiexaT, GKONLKO BHé THX FPyNn.-  LEE 01 HE
13.15 HaGpaHHe Toro Wad HHoFO KaHAHFATa GyHeT 3aBHCETHb He OT TOTO, HACKO/BKO OH MOA-  REPXAUBAQTCA CTPAHAMH CROCTO PaHoHA,:.A OT TOrO, HACKOABLKO MONKTHKA €rO NPABHTE/NLCTRA  COOTBETCTBYET HHTepecaM HeKOTOPH X T CYAAPCTB APyrofi rpynns, KOTOpad npeTeHAyeT Ha  RoMuHhpybmee nonoxetne 8 WHECKO, écau ne no KoAHiieoTRY Ton0COB) 70 no peansHoMy  BAHAHHD Ha ee AeATEeNHHOCTS, : EN
719   XX VIII . Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
13,16 Boe ato 6yAeT ONOGO6CTEQBATR,; BOIHHKHOBEHHD NPOTHBOPEYHÉ BHYTPK PPyNN CTPau= |  YGHOB H HCNQ/IBIOBAHHD:THX _NPQTHEOPOUHI B HHTepecax onpesñeslenHoN rpynntl POCYAAPÇTR,  To HameMy MHEHHD, I~} TpeAceaaTens, npeanaraeMym GHcTeMy BHOGOPOB BNOJNIHE MOXHO  XapaKTepHaoRaTh KaK CHCTOMY - DPHANYECKOTO HOOKONOHHATHIMA, . ;  EI AH : ta 15360 wot, te . Tr vs RUE < #0
13.17 B ‘kateczae OTpuHATOAEHIX. Roce ao TERA Hosoñ oHCTeMB, BuiGopes Heo6xoguMo TaKXKE  OTMETHTE YFpos3y TOFQ, YTO NPH ONPEMO/IGHHBX YCROBHAX P'OCYAAPOTBATY/IOHH: MOFYT 6HTb _.  AHWEHb! FNPABA FO/QCA, Ha YTO 06pamaeTc4 BH!MaHHe B AOK/aAE J0pHARUEOKOTO. KOMHTETA.  KpoMe Toro, B TOM Xe floknafie yKa3HBA@TOA, YTO C NPHHATHEM HOBOÏ CHOTEMEI FOCYAAPOTBA-  YIeHB MOTYT OKR3AThCH B HepaBHOM [JOJIOXEHHH =, ANA, Hs6ÔpaHHA;B Coser IIpencTasjreneñ  OAHHX FOOYMAPCIE, norpe6yerca 6oree sHauHTenbHoe GonbmuHexBo, 4eM AIR H3GPAHHA- |...  npegcrasureneñ APYTHX CTpaH. 3TO HHKaK He; COTJACYETCH C NPHHUHNOM CYBEPEHHOro paBeH:  CTBa FOCYAAPCTB, AefcTBymuM BO BCeEñ cHcTeMe Oprannsaunn O6xegunenns1x Hauuit,
13.18 Moxud Gro 651 POBOPHTE O APyrux HeAocTatkax TOM cuOTEMbi,, B YACTHOCTH HanpH-  Mep, © upeanblugH5oi ee CHOXHOOTH, ITY upegsHyañHy_ CIOXHOCTE NORVEPKHY/D COT OH, Hee BHCTYNNEHHE NPeAcTaBHTenn Anon. 5 AyMam, BCe NPHCYTOTBYDINHE H3 PTOrO BHCTYN-  NeHHA NOHANH, -HTO orereke, KOTOpyD HaM npomaranT, OYeHb C/IOXHA, - . Caer
13, 19. Moxuo Baio Gat npHBecTH eme npyrne Hppmepsr. ‘orphiare nine | F nanoko HAY MUX  MOCAGACTBHÉ, K KOTOPHM NpHBeAeT, HoBan, CHCTEMA BHIGOPOB, HO Mb OCTAHOBH/AHCb TOAbBKO  Ha MAaBHHX H3 HHX, KOTOPHE Han6onee HATAAAHO MNOKA3HBANT HOOÉXOAHMOCTE OTK/OHEHHA  aToù YACTH PACCMATPHBAOMOTO NPOEKTA POIO/OUYHH. |. : Le = :  : 5987 Lor 1
13.20, Onnako cosetckas ‘nenerauna B, "cBoeM OTHOMEHHH K. paccMaTpHBaeMoi, npo6neme ‘ora-,  BHT BO T/1aBy yr/la CTPeM/IeHHe OGeCNeYHTE CNpaBeANHBOe NpeACTABHT@/ABCTEO B Conere pas-  BHBANDMHXCA CTPAH, MosToMy coBercKas Ae/erauHs, YYHTHBAA NO3HUHDO CTPAH Asun n Adpu-  KM, TOTOBA COT/MACHTbCA C BPEMEHHBIM 9KCTIEPHMEHTOM B 9TOH o6nacTH, HO CYHTaeT Heo6xo-  AMMBIM elle pas NOJYePKHYTb BCD ONAÇHOCTb 3TOTO OKCITOPHMEHTA H HEOÔXOAHMOCTb MPHHATHA  Mep XK OTpaHHUeHH, ero ONACHBX MNOCAGACTBHÉ.. .. - .  Cera » 450 Es qe ‘ , .
13. 31 ,B cuny nanoxeHHoro TOABKO 476, .coBeTcKa nenérauna, coxpausa. BCE cBOH npUHLK-  : nwasbHe BO3PpAxeHHA, FOTOBA GOI/TAÇHTBCA Ha, BpeaeHne CHCTEMEI TPYN HA.OAHY, TO/AbKO.  Ha CAHYMATHBAUATYR CEeCCHD TenepasibHoft Koubepenuxn, . . .-  [ER IPL HEN YHi 01 54 0 < Huit Lori Let, +
13. 22 HomeHeyne | B,9TOM, CMBIÇAE, npeandxennorg npôgkra pesonnunn nossonuT. obecneunre  YAY HIOHHE, TipeAÇTaBHTENBCTPA. pa3pypapmuxca CTPAH:B Copere, HO BiTO Xe BPeMA He.0CTa-  BHT BPeMeHit ana. TIPOHB/OHHA.BCEX TeX OTPHUYATEABHEX nocneacranñ nosoû CHCTEMBI, O KOTO-  psHx yxe TOBOPHAOCE.: Hne4 o TOM, YTO meoyHamaTas CeCCHA T'enepanbHoä KOHQepeHLuHH -  RONXHA, BHOBL M3YYHTb, STOT BONPOC, ,y Xe CORÉPRANACE | B BHCTYN/IeHHH NpeACTaBHTeNA  .Heftnoug, H,;Topropan, MB MOANEPXHBAEM.HAON O TOM; YTOGH AGÂÇTBHE SKCNEPHMEHTA
6bt510 orpatweno TONBLKO NATHAAUATOR ceccueit Tenepansuof KOH epeHuHH.  “hais 7 200? [ONE SA Tr Pot rs LEIP RIN fan i ‘
13. 23 T-4 ; Tpeaçeaatens. YyuxHBAN danoxennyn nosuuue cosercxoñ Renerauym, npomy -  Bac MoCTABHTE Ha OTAE/IbHOE FOJNOCOBAHKE CHÉAYIOIIHE YACTH 0o6cyxAaeMOoro npoeKTa peso-  ANUHH, COAepXaNerocs B AOKYMeHTé 15. ‘0/24, “Mut JIPOCHM-NYCTABHTB HA OTAO/bHOE,.TO/O- |  COBAHHE NOC/eFHHH (YeTREPTHR) aban MOTHBHPOBOYHOR YACTH- ( considérant), nyHKT | c)  NOCTAHOBNADUER YACTH, T.0. TOT NYHKT; KOTOPHH Kacaerosn npesnaraemMo HOBOH CHCTeMBI  BMGopoB B HenonnurensHHit copeT, NyHKT 4 nocraHopnApmelt YacTH, T.e. TOT NYHKT, KOTO-  pH KACAGTON pemeHHA OTHOCHTE/IBHO MNPHOOTAHOBKH-AeHorbHA MpasH-npoueayps l'enepasb-  Hoñ XoHdepenumn, H npHAOReHKe VI x AokyMeHTy 15 C/24, NPpHAOXEHHE, KOTOPOE CONEPAHT .
351} MrT SOBAKIN. (Union of Séviet Socfaltst’ Jt Republics) (translation from the Rüsslaï}; al  #1 Mr, President; ‘Before examining the substance of the draft resolutions that the General Con-  - ference has to consider concerning the composition of the Executive Board, the Soviet Delegation -  would like to dwell very briefly on the question of the origin of this problem, .
(13,2) “As you temémbër; “fn thé préfinitiaty. dfscusstoi'héld hers on 21 and-22 > Octébiery- some  speakers tried té’ Bhow that trie’ inequitable” distribution ot‘seäfs!'on thé Executive Board Yok Some:  how attributable té shorfcominys in the existing’ Byatein of election. But'ls the: éxisting system of’  election’ really Fès) nsible"té qth’ Aitidertreprasentation’ of Asia, African’ aiid Arab’ éotintyles ?  Definitely not, : “This undep-rejreseiitation 18 dud,’ “did the one hand, to’ tnternal obétructiontsnt on  the part of certäiri' proue of Slates, and, oh the other, to the growing membership of our‘Organt-  zation, Does the slow rotation of: Board seats among Member States really have’ anything’ {6 do  with the system of electioï to the Exectitlve' Board? Nothing whatsoever, ‘We therefore, think  Mr, President, that it is quite wrong to look for a way out of the difficulties regarding the côm-  postion of the Executive Board solely by reforming the system of election, No reform of thissys-  tem can have any efféct on the real causes of Insuffictent representation on the Board, Including  that of the Séclaltst group of countries. Cat ' ue © wo  ' AI 5 ; LE Le 1 “2
(13.3) The draft resolution subliitiéd by’ the Executive Board’ contains d Aumber. of provisions  aimed at correcting the real cquses of these shortcomings, ‘ Most importaiit of all,‘ fn our opinion,  is its proposal to increase the number of seats on the Board by four, which seats wouldbe ‘reserved  tor the Asian, African and Arab States, ‘It 1s quite bbvlous that if the composition of the Board is  not inoreäséd,' the representation ‘of these groups of States cannot be increased, Irrespective of  whether a new system of election is introduced or not,
(13.4) Fully appreélating and sharing the point of viéW of the ‘Asian, > Africah and Arab ‘States, the  Soviet Delegation will vote for those sections of thé draft resolution and for those amendments to  * the Constitution that call for an Increase in the Board's membership,” We hereby firmly declare  that we’shall vote unreservedly for an increase in the composition of the Board, ‘
(13.5) Such an increase would, in some degree, ensure a faster rotation of seats, but not to a  sufficient extent. .  BE ie a pd ae 4 or
(13.6) We have ‘just heard the representative of { Ceylon speak most’ persuasively onthis question,  The Soviet Delegatici'is ready to support a reasonable reduction of the term of office of Executive  Board mémbers, which would enable a larger number of Member States to have representatives  in the executive organ of Unésco in a’ shorter’ time,
(13. 7) -May 1 now turn, Mr, President, to the third problem with which the draft resolution: sub-  mitted by the Executive ‘Board is concerned, namely the introduction of a'new system of-electing  members td’ the Executive Board, In our opinion, this system { is unnecessary - even mharmful - and  fraught with serfous consequences, y A :  RE CTE LRT RCL Pat tg
(13,8) Why unnecessary? Because witha minimum of goodwill’ on the part of corlain groups of  States the present ‘aÿâtem of eléction; based on a'gentiemén's agreement,” ensures fair, à feprèsen-  tation on thie Board for the Asian, African and Arab couatries, ‘The Socialist countries ‘have shown  such goodwill. Not only tn'word, but in deed, we havé shown that we do not wish fo compete with  candidates put up by the déveloping countries and that we do not seek to increase our representa-  tion at their expense, although we rightly consider that the representation of the Socialist coun-  tries on the Board is'not commensurate with the contribution that these countries make to! the  Organization's activities. Le to. foo .  CA oar con 41
(13.9) If ati the groups of countries were to do the : same and solemnly declare thetr readiness, in  ‘the form of a’ vote, to support the candidates of ‘Asian, African and Arab countries; there would  be no need at all to review the system of eleétion to the Executive Moard.  vey 7 TER YI DEP TREES BES * : %
(13. 10)" Wherein; - then, à our. opinion; es the danger of the proposed new system of “lection?  " Primarily; id! the fact: that it will ‘facilitate ‘the entry to the Board of representatives of States  whose election is unacceptable to the vast majority of Unescd Membér States, and in the fact that  it will foster not unity, but rather disunity among our Organization's member countries, To realize  this, it 1s sufficient to analyse the néw system of ‘election that is proposed, looking beyond the  purely theoretical’ considerations regarding the legal significance of these proposals. 4  DEA
(13.11) According to the new rules, there would no longer be a single list of ‘candidates to the  Executive Board, but five group lists, with a separate list of candidates for each group. Each .  / Mat could éantatié êtther the'satié number of candidates : as thefe Were ‘eats to ‘bè fitled, or more  candidates” than seats to be filled, ; CL 201:  = LS - 15% tr “ i ‘ EEA ut à
(13,12) 1 He number of' ‘sénataëies wére the’ same de the number ‘of ‘seats to bé filléd, all thé'can-  “'didates put ‘forWärd wold have to be eleéted by the General Conference, even'thoigh they night  include cardidates'of Statés which, becausé of their ‘racialist poliéy for example, wére absolutely
781   XYXVHI - Plenary meetings / Séances plénières | P  … of à comparatively amall,  unacceptable to the vast majority of the Organization! 3 Member States, but which had the gupport  ough united, group;.. There 18 no negd to say. which States we have in  mind, as they aré‘well known to everyoiie find do not need to be identified, In this case,the General  Conférence would be forced, to: carry out à large number of ballots, but under the new system it  - would be. compelled,» and I mean compelled - to elect the representatives of such States to the  Board, Inother words, the proposed system of election would open the door to the revival in Unesco  of the notorious’ "voting machine" , This system invites the emergence of a situation in which one group  of States could impose its will on all the other members of the Organization, even on the General  Conference itself.  [AES
(13, 13) nf ‘the, number of candidatés exceeds the number of goats to be titled, the harmful conse-  quances of the riew system of election will not be diminished, . The system of election we have at  prosent encourages efforts to reach agreement within groups of States and between different groups.  Tho new system not only completely does away with this stimulus, but also creates fayourable con-  ditions for the breeding of dissension within groups and for the worsening of relationsbetween them.  . -  { 13, 14) It the now system were introduced, States putting forward their own candidates for the  Executive Board would have to seek support not so much.) within the groups to which they belong,  but rather outside these groups,
(13.15) The électionof a particulair candidate would depend not sd much on the support of countries  + of his-own region, but rather on the extent to which the policy of his government concorded with  the interests of certain States in another group seeking to secure a dominant position in Unesco,  not through the number of votes it commanded, but through its actual influence on the Organiza-  tion's activities,
(13. 16)" ‘An ‘dis ould’ contribute to the er reation of conflict among the different | groups of Member  States and to the exploitation of such conflicts to the advantage of a particular group of States, In  our opinton, Mr, President, the proposed system of election fully deserves to be called a system  of legal neo- colonialism.’ . -
(13, 17) Andther bad consequence of the new system of election is ‘that in certain elreumstances  Member States could be deprived of the right to vote, as is pointed out in the report of the Legal  - Committee. The sahie‘report also points out that under the new system Member States could find  theinselves placed in a position of inferiority, with a greater majority being required to elect the  representatives of some States to the Board than to elect the representatives of other States. This  is quite incompatible with the principle of the sovereign equality of States, which applies through-  out the United Nations system.
(13, 18) Something could also be said about other drawbacks of the proposed system, especially  _ about its exceptional complexity, to which the representative of Japan has drawn attention today.  - I think that it was clear to all those present, after what he had said, that the proposed. system is  extremely complex. A. :  ne ; ii.
(13.19) We could also give other examples of the negative and far-reaching ‘consequences that the  new system of election would have, but we have limited ourselves to the main objections that clearly  demonstrate the need to reject this part of the draft resolution under discussion.
(13. 20) ‘However, >the “attitude of the Soviet’ Delegation to the problem under consideration’ is pri-  marily governed by its desire to see the developing countries adequately represented onthe Board,  The Soviet Délegation is therefore prepared, bearing in mind the position of the Asianand African  - countries, to‘agree to a provisional expériment in this sense, but feels it necessary to point out  once again the danger of such an experiment and to stress the need for action to limit any tamaging  consequences. that it might entail.
(13; 21). on these grounds; and maintaining all {ts basic objections the Soviet Delegation is pre-  pared to agree to the introduction of the group system for the fifteenth, and only the fiftzenth, ses-  sion of the General Conference.  : EE : RTE i i  (i3, 22)" A suitable hangs. in the proposed draft resolution wil ‘make i sible té “thifease: the  representation of the developing countries on the Board, whereas,’ there 3 will not he, tin © ‘for ‘all  the bad consequences of the new system; of which we have already spoken, io operate,’ ithe ‘notion  . that the sixteenth session of the General Conference should re-examine this question wis already  .implieit, in the speech of the | representative ‘ot Ceylon, 1 repeat that we, support the {deh that the  ! ‘ experiment should be limited solely to the fifteenth session of the General Conference,
(13,23) Mr, Prepldent, bearing in mind the, stated position of the Soylet. Pelegatt De I would. ask  you fo put to a sopérate vote the following parts of the draft resolution une er cons deration, con-  tained in document 16°C/24, We usk that a 'séparate voté bé taken on the ‘fast! (4th) ) patdgr ph’ of  the preamble, on paragraph 1 (c) of the substantive part, f,e. the paragraph dealing with fii ‘pro- ‘  posed system of election to the Executive Board, on paragraph 4 of the substantive part, i.e, the  paragraph concerning a decision to suspend the Rules of Procedure of thé’ General Conference, and  on Annex-VI to document 15 C/24, containing a special rule of procedure applicable to elections  to the Executive Board, Thank yous Mr, President,
14. Le PRESIDENT, : =  Je remercie M, Sobakine et je donne la parole à M, Fernand- Laurent, au nom de la  délégation française, .
15.1 M, FERNAND- LAURENT (France), - ,Ç  Monsieur, le, Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, ies ‘délégués, là, délégation, ‘française |  entend, Gomme. vous le savez,. donner’ ne, suite effectiye à  la résolution 7, adoptée. par, la  Conférence générale’ à, sa foie Jesalon, « en ses de porter À 34, le es des  membres. du Ci heel exécut f, de vi à a          tribune ; jé 1 confirme. C'est là une pics de pe générale qui ne © eoulave aucun i  problème juridique de fond et qui ne nécassite, même formellement, aucune de ces lroi-  lettes de textes". auxquelles s'est référé “avec tant d'élégance le Sous- Directeur général  pour les normes internationales’ et les affaires juridiques, .  +
15.2 En revanche; le ‘Systeme’ des” ‘grôupes’ électoraüx,‘’dü' moins tèlg ‘date ‘sont comsoads  dans le projet de résolution présenté par le Conseil exécutif - c'est-à-dire d'une manière  qui cristallise officiellement certains, blocs politiques et idéglogiques qui ne correspondent  pas aux réalités géographiques et culturelles. évoquées dans l'article:V, paragraphe 2,..de  l'Acte constitutif - n'est pas conforme, selon nous, À l'esprit de cet Acte. Au surplus, ce  système ne saurait être-introduit, même d'une manière expérimentale pour deux sessions  ou.même pour une session, sans qu'il soit nécessaire de, modifier la lettre de l'Âcte  constitutif, :
15,3 Sur ce ‘dernier int; 16 Comité fst ië fila Phi à adopté ne position ions ”™ is  nôtré, puisqu'il n'a’ pas formule’ d'avis, Notre opinion Provisoiré est'doné dévériue life opi-  nion définitive,‘ à savoir qu!) faut ‘modifier Acte constifutlf, ‘ en y ‘apportant un amendement  tel que éelui qui à été prése té ‘parie. Japon’ et par” Ie ‘Pérou, pour. Intrôduire 1 je ‘nouveaii  système dane la vie de Dofelnidation C'est pois duel nous Pépondrons_ “oui! À la’ ‘question  Pour  nous ee pe et. éntravet‘ là ve dé fiotre Organisation g de promouvoir ai ‘  esprit de coopération tntérnationäle qut soit vraiment’ universel, Que déviendra,. Mesdames,  Messieurs, ‘notre ‘Consell'éxécutif si, au Meu d'être - ‘comiine 11 devait l'être - un organe  travaillant au ‘profit’ de tous les Etats mémbres, 1 devient un ‘Organe ‘où un nombre ‘erois-  gant de’ mémbres ‘ebélront au ‘mandat impératif qui leur sera donnê | par des constallations  ‘pôlitiques ‘d'Etats ? : ; … A Co
15.4" Motistedr Ie presldefit jréi ntends Hii ne tons ada ÿ par lès derdnldh on ‘ont’ par X fies  aux sessions précédentes de la’ ‘Conférénde  enériie que la ‘présente Shasion eat, datis l'en-  semble, une bonne session, sérieuse, laborleuse, On y fait preuve, dit-on, d'un remar-  iquable esprit-de coopération, .Toutefoid, il s'y manifeste; à notre avis; une téndance inqüié-  tante à refléter,‘ au seiii de la Conférence’ généralé;. publiquément; officiellement, - à: cette  tribune même, tout à'l'heure'-.une politique dé blocs qui est contraire à l'esprit des. fonda-  teurs de notre Organisation, et qui n'est pas favorable aux efforts que nous voulons déployer,  avec le Directeur général et-avec ses. collaborateurs, pour promouvoir ce, que -M,:René  Maheu a appelé une Yeivilisation de 1'universel’,. C'est en s'inspirant de cet esprit d'uni-  versalité, Monsieur le Président; que la délégation française’ votera tout à- l'heure et au ‘elle  vous invite, Mesdames; Messieurs.les délégués, à voter, - - . .
783   XX VIII ; prononé nés Stonsevpbinsits
16," Lé PRESIDENT,’ Let He  . Je Femérele M, Férnand- Liens et je ‘donne la parole À a M, Kirgal, chef de la asie  tion de l'Inde. ate Lou CL , ,Ç
17, 1, Mr: 'KIRPAL, (India); Cpe Cae  Mr. President, first of all, I wish to thank. you for having ‘suggested such a oléar pro-  cedure for examination of this item in document 15 C/INF.9, I'am sure if‘we follow: your  suggestion we will be able to solve this very difficult and very complex problem | in the  course of this morning, and failing that in the afternoon. We are also very ‘grateful for the  work déHe by the’ Légal Committee ‘and; on behaif of my delegation, I should like to express  a word of appreciation to its Chairman.
17.2 As the previous speaker, t 1e delegate of Francé, Has said, "his. bribe’ can be ‘settled  in’ the Spirit of harimohÿ' and’ {ind Fatanding Pelghing at this’ Cénféitsiice’ and in thé spiit of  this’ fourth}'day. of "November; ‘which, ag you ‘mentioned’ Mr; resident; “is ‘hie Bi tiday of  Üneséo.” ‘From ® the state efits” Which; we have already’ heard from, He elegates of'J apan,  ‘Céylon, thé USSR ‘afd Fiance," i séèms to me that’ there are no ‘great divisions: among us.  Therë dre differences of opinion and différent approaches, but some kind of corcligion and  compromisé would ‘appeal to be’ quite’ feasible. |
17:31 should ilke' £6 comment briefly isthe questions Feferedtotn doëliment 15 G/N, 9:  the queation of the legal "aEpedt | of ‘the. ‘system’ of electoral grolips, "the general “question : fof  the‘solution proposéd by the Exétutive Board ‘ahd, lastly, | very béetiy, I should iiké’to add  a few remarks to what the Ambassador'of J apn’ his already said in'régard'té"the draft  resolution referred. to in paragraph 10, which we have co-sponsored with Japan and Nepal,  ani. . ar ‘ cet à bons! : poor LI GES 2 Tue [RAR .
17.4" With regard to the deittdn 6 of whether an amehdment to the Constitution” is Heceasdky ‘  to permit the establishment of the system of electoral groups ‘récorfiéndéd by. the Executiye  Board; we’ fully understand ‘the‘coripiexity and far-reaching natüfe'of suéh'a'éystém; "Thé  matter has béer'discisééd over a’ long'pertod in'the Spécial Comtiittee and’in he Executive  Board, and’ various, .argüménts for. ‘and’ ‘against’ have“ béëñ'advätiéed; We realize that the  system is. not a. pérfect one: even the distribution proposed does not strictly ‘gétisfy ‘the  cultural and geographical criteria, That, is understood, and admitted. We do feel, however,  RYT  that what is being suggested 1s a device i nténded essentially, to, correct a fun lämental  tint  imbalance ‘which has, crept into the working. of the Organ ization; ; ‘and | 80 far it is “the. only ‘  propos sséd to the” ‘General Conterénce. It is à provisional | ‘and, expérimental solution.  We are only. pci out’ a fyridariental provision of the Constitution, pamèly ‘Article’ V.A.2,  and aré’ introducing ‘a ‘practical’ device: o on- “and expérimental” and provisional” ‘basis,’ “The  experimental and ‘provisional character of this n measure should be alressed, The Conference  should : Técoi size ita as, bee, es RRR a fasting be point’ for the plain épis of the     assert that, it is not necessary to amend the Constitution to permit the establishment of the 8 DE  system ‘of electoral groups proposed by ‘the. Executive, Board. ho,  SERRE TR TLE BR RAE LE ETA ST I LS BI A
17,5 As.t6 the proposal of the Executive: Board, 1 do- riot wih. to ‘repèat- the’ reasons 3 which  I have given sevéral:times; in the Executive Board and in the Special Committee; concerning -  the urgent reed.to improve ‘thé representation of>Asia’and Africa'in’the Executive Board :!  Resolution 7: adopted by thie General Conference at itb:fourteenth dession called for a re-:  view: of the composition of the:Executive Béard to ensure an- equitable balancéd répresenta-  tiohtof.théivarious cultures ‘and geographical regions, { The matter Has been the: subjectiof  long; odncentrated study by. the Executive Board and its Special Committee; and the proposal’  which has emerged is one which I think can be aécepted. provisionally and as an experiment.
17,6 I wad heartened to hear the statèment of the USSR ‘delegate’, His delegation had much  greater difficulties with the proposal earlier than it seems to have now, -I appreciate’ its:  point of view, although I'do not agree with some of the things that have been said, :We feel,  however, that the USSR delegation now also-agrees with the solution proposed; The only  difference which séenis to exist rélates to’ whether the experiniént should las} for twô ses  sions, as the Executive Board proposes, ‘or for ‘one session as seems 6 bé ‘agreed so tar,  My delegation‘ will voté for the solution proposed by thé Executive Board, Thé two ques-  tions, the increase of membership to 34 and the allocation of ddditional seats 6ii the Board  equally important, the need to.give all countries the maximum opportunity for: serving on  the Executive Board, This latter question is one of rotation, and we, have full syfapathy To  with the point of view so ably éxpressed by the Head of the delegation of Ceylon, However,  we have no strong views on this and, in the draft resolution we have submitted jointly with  Japan and Nepal, we suggest that the matter be examined by the Executiye Board and con-.  . sidered by the Conference at its sixteenth session (16 C/DR/PLEN/5, paragraph II), At  present, it seems to us that the only solution is to accept.the Executive Board's proposal, -  and then, if the General Conference accepts our joint resolution, this question of tenure  would be examined and, we hope, a solution would scon be found which took into account  the views expressed by the delegates of Ceylon and Malaysia and several other Asian  countries.
17,8 We are prepared to yote for the resolution recommended by the Executive Board as  it stands because it. provides a, means .of . redressing the : situation ;.of the .  Asian and African countries, but we are prepared to go along with.the Asian and African, ..  countries if they wish to reduce the length of the experimental period. We hope that this  solution will be unanimously adopted because all agree that the representation of Asia and  Africa should be improved and that the only, way of doing this is to increase the member-  ship of the Board .to.34, We also all agree that this is an experimental and provisional .  solution which needs to be éarefully studied, and that the question should continue to be  studied and the position réviewed with à view to improving the situation ‘of:the Exédutive  Board, No solution of ‘this type. can be considered as permanent and one that should be  written into the Constitution. - This is another reason why we do not think that any change -  in the Constitution is required. ‘We do not want to crystallize the figures proposed for.the  representation of Asia and Africa, We hope that in the years to come there will be further  improvement. Thé number and. diversity of cultures and populations in these countries -  would fully justify such improvement. :
17,9 This, Mr, President, is the point of view of our delegation and the explanation of  how we shall vote on the various problems which you have specified in this excellent  document.
18, Le PRESIDENT: ‘Je remercie M. Kirpal et-je donne maintenant la parole à S. Exes.  M, Han Lih-Wu, chef de la délégation de la République de Chine.
19.1 Mr. Han LIH:WU (China): . : PT LC ee a Te a . .  . Mr. President, fellow delegates; my delegation is prepared to support the recommenda-  tions of the Executive Board in their entirety, We support them not because they are ideal .  but because they are a good working formula for experimental purposes and, as such, do  not necessitate amendments to the Constitution. : In human affairs -and particularly in: -  matters involving so many nations, it would be utopian to hope for any idesl arrangement.  The: essential thing is the promotion of: goodwill through closer co-operation for: the  :
785   XXVIII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  common good. No matter how attractive the formula and the ‘accompanying statistics, etc.  these .are secondary. to the: paramount consideration, which is > goodwill leading towards  closer. co-operation, Pt It “ :  SYST
19, 2 T Jheretore Fecdomme end that’ we vote’ for the adatitoi of four, members to thé Exégu-  tive Board - two for / lala, one for ' ‘Africas, and oné for the Arab countries, I also urge  that we ‘vote ‘for the eleotoral system necessary, to ensure that such additional ‘membership  results in a, rectitication of ‘Inequalities’ in Toprogentation. ,
19. 3 Lu 16 prother members. of jh Ekéqutiyé 1 Board should serve ‘for fur. years or six  years, e, ‘have. an “open mind; br but ‘we are ‘ready t ?, support the ‘recommendations of the,  Board since, after all, At has spent nearly a year. in ‘considering such, a formula, But, 1  repeat), all ‘formulas are ‘merely secondary to the important task of ‘promoting goodwill  among members, Unesco, of all the international organizations, is the place for efforts  in this direction, ,
20. ‘Le PRÉSIDENT! AAR :  “Je: réméroefe ‘8; Exé,. M, Han: Lih:Wu et je donne’ la parole au prince Khalid Ibn Féhad  au nom de-la délégation de l'Arabte ‘saoudite.  . 1 a A = 1 A - N  ab 2 084 [CONTE FEN : "€
2151 Le prince: ‘Khalid Ibn'FAHAD (Arable: saoudite) - (Discours prononcé 6 en arabe. Trans-  criptiori de l'interprétation) -  : . Métisieui le: Président, Mesdames, Méssieurs'les délégiiés, je suis’ hébreux, au ‘nom  de'la’ déiégation’ de'l'Arabie saoudite; dé diré què'ñous approuvôns' la récommiandation'ten-  dant à’ hügrnénter le Tnômbre dés ‘membres’ du Conseil exécutif en le faisant passer à 34,  Ceci perméttrait' aux Etats mémbres arabes ét aux Etats membres d'Asiè et d'Afrique, de  participer de façoir plus efficace aux travaiix du Conseil éxécutif,  _
21,2 Nous appuyons également l'avis exprimé par le chef de la délégation de Ceylan, à sa-  voir Que là dürée du mandat des membres du Conseil ne'devrait pas dépasser quatre ans,  sans ‘possibilité de‘rééléction immédiate.’ Ainsi, un plus grand nombre d'Etats membres  pourraient partiélpér aux travatix du” Conseil exécutif.
22: Lé PRESIDENTY =" ) ’ 5  ‘Je ‘remertie le prince Khalid Ibn Fahad et jé donne la parole à S. Exc. M, Minkovitch,  chet de là délégation de la République goclaliste soviétique de Biélorussié. °  + ll = *f
23,1 M À: MHHKOBHY:(Benopycexaa Coseroran Gounantornseëxen Pecny6anka):  >D-H- Ipeaceaatenbi O6ocyxaeune Bonpooa o cooräne HcnonHuteAbHOrO conera nokasalo,
4YTO CYMECTBYIOT CHIÉHbE PA3HOr/IACHSA B TOM, YTO KacaeTCs BBeJileHHS HOBOË CHCTEMEL BbI-
6opon-B HonoyHuTerblibi coset, Jlaxe Te Aeseraulid, KOTOPHE NOAASPXHBAKT OTY:CHCTEMY,  NPpH3HANT, /YTO OHA'CTpajiaeT MHOTHMH CYMECTBEHH;IMH HEAOCTATKAMH, CyllecTBYOT TAKXE  H cyillecTBeHHbI@ ‘PA3HOF/IACHA NO NOBOAY PelleHHsA BONPOCA O CHPOKE NONHOMOYHH Y/IeHOB  HenonuuresnbHoro coBeTa. a ;
23.2 Mexay TEM, nonoxeHnA, KaCéDIIHECA 06OHX STHX BONPOCOB, - HaXOAATCA B OAHOM  npoekre pesoïniHH BMECTe C NONOXEHHEM 06 yBe/HYeHHH KO/HYeCTBa MeCT B Henonsuurenb-.  HHA copeT. Bes pemeHHs 9TOro NocjeAHero BONPOCA COBEPLIEHHO HEBO3MOXHO peuxTb  Npo6reMy ynyqlleHHs NPeACTaBUTE/NLCTEA PASBHBADLINXCA CTPAH B Corere, PasHormacHa no  BOMPOCaM: 0 CHÈTEMe Épynn H O CPOKe TIONHOMOYWHÉ MOryT NPHBECTH K OTK/IÔHEHHIO pesonpuni  B uesoM, Te. H K OTK/IOHEHHD-YBE/HYEHHA KONHYECTBA YieHop Copera,
23,3 na Toro, UTd6b! He ‘RONYCTHTH STOTO, Aejerauus Benopycoxo# CCP BHOCHT npégioxe-  HHey KOTOpOe MOMOXeT. COKPÉTHTE pas’HOTJ/IaGHA iO OFHOMY H3 BOrNpoCÔB;» à HMeHHO; no HaH-  Gonee criopiiony. Bonpocy ‘0 BBORÉHHH Hosoñ CHOTEMbi EHOOpoB:": .. ‘  Hite a ast : ft.» Las * . Teo
23. 4 Bonpog! ‘HOBOro” riôprage su 6opos oltens thoxnnñ H BHOMBAST MHOTO apynanocreñ: 3neot  H BonpocH ipoyexypii, -H BONpoobl nônparox K YoTamy, H Apyrne BOMpOCH, BHauMo nostomy  WOphanueckHi KOMHTeT H He Aan OTBETH HA MHOrHe BONPOCH;' KACADIIHECH HOBOR CHCTEMH.  . 186   sesiônes plénarias /HAenapnuwe'sacédauxa- XXvin
23, 5" Mui He coritacHut 2oobme c'BBEAeNHeM TOR Hopoñ cuoTeMH, TPYyAHS cKasatb;' KOMy  ara’ cHoTeMa 6yner BbiroaHa HW kékyn OHa ‘néñbay MOXeT npHAeCTH, Eé npeAnaraeron ; BHECTH  Ha ‘spemenHon w akénépumentanbHon o¢HoBe. Hau HeNORATHS, ‘ioueMy KCTIepHMeHT, ecfiu  ero OrphyaTenbHèté nocapAcTBHA npofsaren ‘yxe Ha ganjo ‘ceccuñ, aonxeH nponoñxerben  H BO BpeMA mecTHaAUaTOR ceccuu Penepansnoi soubopenunu, + ES  > pee Greta ER gd
23,7 Henerauyus Benopycckoit CCP BHOCHT choayomue nonpaskH K npoeKy p egonmuMn B  NPHAOXEHUH VK AOKYMEHTY 15 c/24 HK TIpHIOX EHH VI Toro xe MoxyMeHTä! i, daMeHHT  Tekcr nepsoñ bpast Nynkra 1 é) céayomim "TEKCTOM: “ôsnare ha Bpemenôn J] ‘Sxonépu- .  MeHTa/bHOH OCHOBE Ana nATHAAUATOR CE@CCHH CHOTEMY apa sise rio KoTOpbIM  NyHKTax H nokyMekrax, KacaluWxcä BbÔOpOB B Honénmrenstian comer.  F
(23.1) Mr, M; A, MINKOVICH (Byelorussian: Soviet Sotatist Republic) (Translation trom the Russian):  Mr, Presidents Our examination of the question of the composition of the Executive Board has  shown that thère is strong disagreement oyer the introduction of a new system of election to the  Executive ‘Board. : Even thôse delegations that support the system admit that it has many basic short-  comings, Thére Is also fundamental disagreethent on how the question of the length of term of of-  fice of Executive Board: members should be ‘solved: : .-
(23.2) However, proposals relating to both these questions are to be found in one dratt t resolution,  .together with a propo posal to increase the m mber of Executive ‘Board seats, Until this last question  is solved,’ it {a quite. Irr-possiblé té solve 2 problem of. ère asing the number of ‘Tesprésentati es -  of the ‘developlity i countries on the Board,  Disagreèment about thé system of electoral groups and’  ‘the length of the term of office’ could'lead to the rejection of the Pesoldtion “altogether, and alsb’  therefore to the rejection of the proposal to Increase’ the number of Board Members. ’  . des on A ;-  ta. 3) .Toprevent tits, the Delegation of the Byelorussian Soviet. Soclaliet Republic has a proposal.  . that will help to lessen disagreement on one of these questions, namely on \ the most controversial |  question of the introduction of a new election system. .  vor  relating to the proposed new svete. yo  - 5e SE 2 + quan a dd a, a ;
(23. 5). We are absolytely opposed fo. the’ troduction. of this new, system. It ie ard t o say, wha  would be favoured, by this system and ‘wha benefit it could possibly yield, bi) is proposed | to in-  troducé ton a pro sional and éxperimental basis, “We fail to see why the experiment should" be  continued during the slxteénth ‘session of the General Conterèricé if its ‘negative’ donsequerices be-  ¢éme apparent : at this fifteenth! Bession. : ”  Ter 0s Codd Less  nes  bya considerable accepted it not ‘unanimously, . ; . >,  reg i 14 14e » 1 LEERY
(83. 7) The Délégation of the Byelorussién SSR’ opie the: rois nloûdinoäté té‘ the” drag re-  "solution ‘contained in Aniex V to 'dociimént 15 C/24 and to Annex’ ‘VI to this'docuriént, Firétly, we it
787   XXVIII : «Plenary meetings /Séances plénières  propose that the first clause of paragraph. 1 (o) should read as follower a, establish for.ihe. fit  teenth sesglon,. op à provisional and experimental basls, a system of glegtoral groups of. Mémber -  States, which shall govern ony elections do the Executlye Board; aid to cn mine the results. “atthe  néw system in the light of experfénce at vin session", Secondly, aragraph 4 of the ‘draft re-  solution we ‘propose’ replacing the Words "and sixteenth ségafon" by! session"; ’ “Thirdly, s we pro- '  pose that the word " sixteenth” in the hedding of Annex VI and in’ paragraph Il, 1'of Annex VI be °  deletéd, Fourthly, in the preamble to Annex VI, we propose that the word Wgixteenth" be struck  out, Similariythé word" sixteenth” should be deleted from all the other paragraphsand documents  relating to elections to the Executive Board, . ; 8
(23.8) ‘We believe that these amendments would make it A for us to solve the difficulties we  have encountered in this matter, Thank you, Mr, President,
24, Le PRESIDENT. .  ' Je remercie S, Exe, M. Minkovitch et je donne la parole à M, Wade, au nom de ls dé-  légation des Etats- Unis d'Amérique.
25,1 ‘Mr, WADE ûltéa States of Amertéa): Ce  ‘Mr, “Président, distinguish id delegates, “in t rtiminacy debits” ‘on this subject : a  week or 50 ago 1 in a lenary mee: ing, my ‘delegation indicated that we had’ no objection to  referral of the, legal ‘and: administrative, ‘aspects of the Executive Board's proposals’ ta, the  competent organs of the “Vieneral Conference for advisory opinions . Stace then, both the  Administrative Commission and the Legal Committee have met to consider their respective  tasks, and we have their reports before us today.
26.2 The Adminitrative Commission's report ‘Confirms the ‘financial epimatés. already  given to us by the Director-General in 15 C/5 Add. and Corr. 2. It's cléar that the sum  required to put the new proposals into effect is relatively small - less than $20,000 per  year.
25. 3 As far as ‘the legal aspecis are ‘concerned, the United States deiegtioh ‘is pleased to  note that the conclusions of the. Legal Committee coincidé with my government's earlier  conclusions that there is no doubt about the legality of the proposals recommended by the  Executive Board.  ‘, «dt =
26.4 In this connexion; ‘we’ ‘note {hat the Legal Coiiraittee proceeding urider: the {two-thirds  voting requirément, has reached a ‘consensus on thé legal questions forthulated by its able  Chairman and put to the. Committee for its- advisory opinion, There: is only’ one ‘major ques-  tion on whiéh the Legal . Committee did not reach a firm- ‘advisory opintoii: the. question of  whether thé Géneral Conference can adopt a system of electoral groups - without amending  thé Constitution, On’ this’ ‘ point, ‘the report notes that a large’ majority of the Committee -  one ‘vote ‘short of the ‘required: two-thirds’ majority - - found that no uch améndment was  necessary. The United States voted with the majority on this matter, ard contiriues to hold ‘  that amendment to the Constitution is neither necessary nor desirable. .
26. 5. ‘My ‘delegation agrees with the conclusions get forth’ in. paragraph 9 of the réport of the  Legal Committee that Article V, paragraph 2 of the Constitution already’ stipulates that in  electing members of the Board the General Conference shall have regai‘d to the diversity  of culturés and’a baldnced geographical’ distribution, ard that the ‘establishment ofa system  of electoral. groups is ‘desighed to give éffect to this ‘provision.’ Accor dingly, ‘when the  President ‘puts this to a vote, the United States will vote "No" on paragrapl\ 6.of ô ‘C/INF. 9:  that is to say, we will voté that no amendment to the Constitution is WAAL in order to  establish electoral groups. "  a. " : ‘ sut 41 * “ol dr ?
25, 6 TH BO fait as 5 the other méjor questions pis to thé Legal Committe areléonterried, ‘the  Committeé adoptéd its advteory opinions by a two!thirds Imajority; ‘and'the United States,  in every case, voted with the majority. We think ‘these opinions ‘are’ cléarly | det ‘orth in  the Report of the Legal Committee which all delegations have now received ani which. they  have had an opportunity to review and ‘study. Moreover, these opinions have been’ concisely
788   Sesiones plenatias / Maenapnue sa0edanua XXvil  outlined for us: here this morning by ‘the distinguished Chairman of the ‘Legal ‘Colriittee :  My delegation fully süppoits these ‘opinions. Théréfore, I shall not attempt to discuss  them in detaily although I would like to reserve the ght to do so in the light of further  developments in the: debate. a .
25.7 The: United States: delegation is pléééed to’ Tote that à 1er jo" conseñsuë te tri favour of  the Executive Board's: proposa) although we are concernéd that some délegations are not’  fully satisfied as regards the term of office of Executive Board members’, ‘We understand  their concern, I would, in fact, point out that the United States representative in the res-  pective committees and in the Executive Board put forward the suggestion for a four-year  term without re-election. We withdrew it, however, because a majority of the Executiva  Board memberg were not in agreement and the proposals of the Board were subsequently  drawn up on thet basis ‘of a single six-year term,
25,8 Thé Bèatd'a: proposal for à &ix-year term was designed to provide for quicker rota-  tion. Manifestly, from what we have heard here this morning, the proposal, in the view  of many delegations, does not go far enough in this respect, Consequently, the United  States delegation would be happy to see the term of office remain at four years if a large  majority of delegations prefers this course of action; ar seems to be the ¢ase. From what  the Legal Adviser told us this morning, I understand that {t'is possible, legally, to adopt’  such a course of action, I would be grateful, Mr, President, if youcouldindicate before the  voting takes place, the implications of the maintenance of the status quo as regards the  term of office, in relation to the adoption or rejection of the series of proposals to change -  the ution and the Rules of Procedure as set forth on pages 11 and 12 of Annex V of
25.9 Mr, President, the United States delegation remains convinced that thé adoption of  the package proposal before us, modified if necessary to maintain a four-year term of  office, will‘ provide an equitable and stable Board in which all regions represented in  Unesco will have a fair opportunity to participate, We believe. that the proposals represent  a fair compromise.’ For. this reason, my delegation would ke opposed to the amendment,  put forward this riorning by the delegation of the Soviet Union, to limit application of the  electoral group system to the fifteenth session of the General Conference, after which it  would be reviewed. This same proposal was considered in the Executive Board and re-  jected, The United States opposed the proposal there and we oppose it here. As far as we  are concerned, we would have preferred that the electoral group system, which we consider  fair, equitable and legally sound, be instituted on a permanent basis, Similar arrangements  are already in effect and working most satisfactorily in a number of agencies in the United  Nations system and there is thus ample precedent for it.
25,10 We agreed, reluctantly, to the compromise proposal to re-examine the matter after  the experiment had been conducted at two sessions of the General Conference, the fifteenth  and the sixtéenth sessions. We believe it would be most unwise to accept a further com-  promise and proceed with such a re-examination after the expérience of only one session.  We do not believe that one session will give us the basis on which to make an informed  and sound judgement, We will ‘therefore vote against any such amendment,
25.11 In conclusion, Mr. President, let me say that the United States delegation continues  to believe that the adoption of the proposed expansion of.the Executive Board, the establish-  ment of electoral groups and a shorter term of office will enable the General Conference ;  to settle for some time to‘come, and in a fair and satisfactory manner, this difficult ques--  tion of equitable geographical distribution in the Executive Board. We are satisfied that  the proposals that we have before us represent a considered, legally sound and practical  solution to this problem, and we urge their adoption. .
26,1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie M, Wade,
789   XX VIH . Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
26,2 .Nous allons maintenant suspendre le débat La liste des orateurs inscrits est encore  assez longue, Elle comprend les délégations de Colombie, de Hongrie,- du;Népal, des Pays-  Bas, d'Espagne, de la Répyblique dominicaine et de Roumanie. Et elle n'est pas close pour  autant, J'éspère néanmoins que; si tous les orateurs se limitent à exprimer leuk opinion  sur les points qui font l'objet des documents soumie à la Conférence générale et évitent de  rouvrir un débat de fond qui a été, je crois, :6puisé au cours des premières séances que  nous avong consacrées à ce point, de l'ordre du jour, nous pourrons parvenir à voter à la  fin de la séance de cet après-midi.
26.3 La séance est levée, .  The meeting rose at 12.55 p.m, -  La séance est levée à;12 h,55, -  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 12, 55