Twenty- second plenary meeting  - 28 Octobër 1968'at 3,25 p.m. -  President: Mr. ETEKI-MBOUMOUA (Cameroon)  Vingt- deuxième séance plénière
1 Le PRÉSIDENT, -  Mesdames, Messieurs, je déclare la vingt- -deuxième séance plénièré ouverte,
1,2 Nous allons we piitiitvre ie débat de politique génétate, Je dorine là parole au premier  orateur insèrit, le professeur Cash, chef’ de 1a délégation du Chili.
5717   XXII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
42,1): Mr, CASH (Chile) (Translation from the Spanish); .
(2.10) Katicktiy,  to our needs. .  Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen: The Chilean delegation, ‘at thia fifteenth session of = a  ‘Unesco! s General Conference, is of the opinion that the Executive Board's decision to propose  some basic themes for discussion, such as the main lines of future policy and the problems of  youth, 18 of utility in'detérmining the future general direction {o be taken by the Organtzatioh.  int
(212) To'érééntiâte our diécussions'on'soine fundamental points of interest td all Membér States  - helps.to reaffirm fhe idea and practice of international éo-opération;'and enables évery delégation  - to make a valuable contribution to the formulation of some general line of action. That, I think,  is what interests this assembly most, and our respective nations as well,
(2.3) 1 should like to begin, Mr, President, by referring to the evaluation of the regional pro-  . grammes for Latin America, and first of all to some aspects of the doctrine of international tech-  nical assistance in the United Nations system for stimylatingthe process of national development.  AE a Ay RENE BFE T0 15
(2.4) International technical agaistance, or more specifically the Ardnsfer, of technol Anternationat technical og to'develop-  ing countries, must be selected, examined and adapted to national problems, and not the other way  nancial resources of the  duced, and research that proves sterile through lack of resources for giving it roots.
(2.5): Foreign technical teams and professignal team from each recéivirig country must work to-  gether on the same footing within the framework of:an adequate plariñing of international technical  assistance, national technology, and financial afd, It seems to me that Such coroperative work is
(2.6) Téchnologleal progress, which dépends entirely on à high level of géneral kriowledge and on  . sound management, cannot be created away from its basis,’ which is the education of young people  and adults. The fullest development of man's capabilities is impossible without modern techno-  . logy and the infrastructure needed for human progress. ;  EO Len an 1 SL ATID de ER 15 UE 51 IL 15 ES A re Va ny Se
(2.7) I know that what I have just satd ls a répetition of criteria already stated and which must be  familiar to other bodiés of the United Nations system, but I think that the experience of many de-  - véloping nations justifies careful considération of these principles, aid that it is not superfluous  for the General Conference to give them attention.  Regular programme and ovér 50% of the UNDP Technical Assistance Regional Programme are  earmarked for literacy projects. ©, 2°, Coe aa             BA GE al Trespeeit ae fe pA whe adept ey enn Preis aiifale TL gg DT a 8
1 tural ‘net trying to deny. the imporignce of literacy, I merely, want to underiine ….  the existing imbalance In relation là other programmes chiléd for by the various stages of devefop-  ment of States ‘’Chilé considérs that thé region now néeds an ambitious programme, such as the  * Major Project was; thid might, for example, be an exténsion on à continental ‘scale of the Expéri-  “mental Out-of-School-Education-Programme. - Co TE EA  Lt Û wr  pis [SAT SANE f Po BE 4 Late
(2.11) As regards priority suhjeots of regional interest; my Government considers that the work:  being done in baslo sciences riust continue, over a wider geographic area, as it would then be pos-
21 ES PERE ef,  : vo.  - sible for us to have a technojogy of our own and be able to adapt the technologies of other countries  VON OL I 1 PE Lt + Co TS
(2.12) With respect to the éfficiency.of regional action; I think that there should be a bettér -  -balance between the staff and administrative coste of thé various centres and the cost of the other  services proyiled (seminars, documentation, scholarships). A rough calculation of the present  situation shows that over 70% of the budget of she reglonal centres is spent’ on staff salaries ‘  [IN
(2. 13) T should prs to‘express our firm Sippy for Unésco's’ Reglonal Offices} Whose work 1  not limited to information and documentation, but is fundamentally a matter of assoclating and co-_  ordinating thé various regional programmés: - The dfficé 1h Chile’ 18" dolhg work of outstanding im-  portance in Implementing the {deals of the ‘Organization, but it needs" greater human and financial  resources to extend its activities and co-ordinate more closely the various projects active in the  region, '  A Ri e I     of Latin sib 18 Hit a jit of the aay of initiating’ in fu 1971-1972 hy, a SAA  for the promotion of Feglona ar int egrâtion in the spheres’ “of Education, Sèleñce, ulture and Com-  munication, and to submit hls proposals to the General Conference at its sixteénth séssion: ‘1  think that this 18 bound to afford the governments of Latin America and this Organization a rich  expertérice in cultural, educational and scientific co= ‘operation complementary to what is being  done fèr economic integration. .
(2.15) Mr. Presidont, 1 should like in the second part of ny address to vefer to > the place of € youth  in contemporary society, adding that we are fully and unreseryedly in favour of what might. be  called Unesco's i new opening on the ‘problems of young people, problems which are: certainly  shaved, by us. and by. our peoples; A few days ‘ago in this same conference room, the Director-  General defined - <1 think in most impressive arid evocative terms - the sense of ‘that’ ‘opening, 80  that I ‘need not develop. lengthy, further considerations on the subject. Nevertheless, I should like  to examine some aspects of the situation that seem:to me fundamentai. In my opinion, the emer-  gence of various youth inôvements, of ‘various tendencies but ail of them revealing In the last  analysis an element of protest, criticism and a rejection of the existing structure of soclety, is  not a matter of chance. Even less so is the fact that youth is in arms all over the world, some-  times with an ‘intensity and violence which Will be discussed later.
(2, 16), Independently, of the sootal end. poittfcal systems of the. various states, of the disterent  stages of their development, - .youth expresses uneasiness and shows, signs of strain, in obedience  to a: profound phenomenon ‘of contemporary, society and culture - It seems to mé that civilization  has reached a point of crisis, of disintegéation of the traditional forms of learning and of social  organization, nf new forms which are struggling into being. It seems to me that youth, the time  of life when mankind is most open and receptive, is proving ‘to us that these are not words already  spoken by someorie who ean be migtaken 1 ike anybody else, but the reflection. of a reality which is  already an element in the life ‘of nations ‘and of mén, ‘  [SR      at the same time ter :  aré being éhallénged hominy 3 pressure.’ ‘After all; ls ‘there tof c'éclels of near as  à cohérent’ ‘explanatién of ‘existence 7. 18 there not a crisis of education its methodolégy and its.  aims?" Is' thére riot a'crlèls Lefween the Most advanced sclentific, ‘and téchnoldglcal deVelopient  and its'effèct'on'the’liré‘ôf iiankind and society?" Ie theré not’ ‘a crisis in the stFictures of govern-  snent affecting the political system the truly representative nature’ of Powér End’tha omonly  accepted concept of Democracy? Is there not, over a considerable area of the world, a grave  dilemma bétween the economic, bagig and its organization, and the need for greater political and  cultural freedom 7. 1s the struggle for economic decentralization in that area not something of  interest, to > youth in its search for values based on liberty? . _- +          IE. Sh 5 Sucre ! EN
(2. 18). Thé présënce of youth confronts us} ‘erbforè With « a twofold problem if we want fu consi-  - der the underlying significance of its behaviour: the problem of understanding; of réally äppreciat-  ing the sense of crisis which affects humanity, and the problem of espousing thé éause’of youth  through a systematic inquiry into its aspirations, in order tJ integrate it with society and with the  . planning of its future. Such an inquiry entails a comparative study on an international scale _of the  psycho oglcal,” economic, social, political and cultural questions affecting youth. 3 tt A1
583   XXII + Plenary meetings / Séunces plénières
(2 19). ‘Fo speak of youth Implies’that the: problem mugt.be tackled in‘all its complexity: It has  ‘vavlous facets, among them the dignificant Increase.in the échool-agè' population, -young people in  family life; out-ofrschoo! education, the inclusion of youth in development progesses, ‘the specific  problems of youth inthe more advanced and thé less advanced countries and between these. two  bases of reference, the problems of rural youth, working class youth and students, the latter's  scales of {values à and d their uaderatanding « of the specific problems of the society fr in à which they live.  She elise af ant quuteinsaui on br soe GENES CE FELLA  PS
0 2 C e   —   be)   «©   a  |  a .   œ = © []  clal. relevance. . ‘The upsurge, of youth is a world-widé, phenomenon, but one of psrtionar impor -  tance in underdeveloped reglons »- where the young are more preponderant in relation to thé average  age of the population, where they assume their responsibilities earlier in life and enjoy. a greater  influence, Such is the case in Latin America, and so it is in my country. In Chile, In 1965,  three-quarters : of the inhabitants were under 40 and 58.24% were between 1 and 24 years of age.
(2. ayy With this’ ta, wi 1 ‘shoud like fo express very ‘aétirilte Support for certaly of Uriesco s  ‘activities, ne want. fo begin by, saying, that, my ‘Government. bk; deeply | in tere sted’ in the analysis  of high er “educa Jon in. contemporary soglety. have been 190 king over the ocuments concerned  ’ with te round table which met'at Unesco Headquarters, an the decision to continue the discussion  in some Latin’ ‘American country seems lo me very important. oC
4  “(a 22) White, it ia uridoybtedly true ‘that the’ organtzalion of education and the def in the univer-  sities go ‘beyond the problems of youth and involve the future of léarning, {ts role in soclety and  its ingtitutionalization, it ia the young who have turned a searchlight on the current definition of  what universities are.  tr =} T2 1 8 , 1
(2. 23)" n would be ‘inopportune for me to ‘sttempt à at ‘hii stdge fo Tay à down’ any ‘éritèria in ihe mat-  ter; éspééially If we aré supporting an Ariquiry organized by Unesco on the to ic, which may prove  a valüable element of ‘appréciation for Member States.’ Néverthéléas, ‘the in epeñdente of ‘the uni-  “versities,’ in‘some countries where pu €-budgetary State grants play a ‘determining rolé in their  ‘development, the mäñner in which they come td terms with ‘society, and student participation in  the admihistration and ¢o-ordidation ‘of higher education are, in'my opinion, fundamental  questions:  + ‘
(2.24) My’ chlintry id (andré an everbible! process of PE of ‘higher : and iniyéraiiy edus  cation; with a search for more’ progressive forms of student participation and a ‘new ‘policy fegard-  ing the university's functions. What is really Important is that youth, which ls associating itself  with this process; should decide té maintain the highest! level of reséarch and académic’ integrity;  in short,’ that youth Shbuld not exercise its power unjustly by impoverishing the richest and purest  aspects of the university tradition, that it should not imperil the prospéct of i its own Intellectual  and scientific growth.
(2.25) As'far as Chile 18 i bonged, 1 fdel ceaictably optimistic about’ the future. Str dents, tea-  chèrs and administrators’ are at work thrashing | out new paths in an atmosphere of freedom. My  Government is not ‘apprehensive of this discussion, but looks towards it with hope, as it does to-  wards all evidences of the democratization of the cultural power which raise the status of men at  whatéver level they happen to be.
(2. 26). Our ‘extraordinary eltoris in education, achleved - as ‘Unesco Knows, since they haye been  described by members of my, delegation.- - at the cost of many. sacrifices; and much privation, our  efforis in favour, of children and young people, are things which, accurately; ) reflect our love of  youth and the _conylciion that our country ‘ would be.unworthy of its past if, by limiting the freedom  of the young, to learn now, how, to take decisions tomorrow on the problems affecting our nation, it  failed to place its trust in those who will take over the building of its future.
(2. 27)- The: out- ~ot-achiol éducaiton | prégrétiames âtealsd of éssentiai interest to 3.” Out<of=  school edücation and youth activities, i they’ alm’at the active and conbtFuctive {ntegration ‘of  young people in séctal life, may prove à basic form of response 16 the crisis Which'I hive des-  cribed, the means by. which a dialogue may open between youth and society; provided it does not  ; turn into a new form of palernalism; but into a vast, shared experience which the young can re-  …, gard ag their own, as the best way to participate in, and contribute to, the general development  of their countries: .  TERA CAN OW 2  “ (2.28) Mrs President, fellow delegates, violence te at the present time plying a “maj r ole in  the behavior ‘of youth. That is because youth has been ‘educated to violence. In practice it has
584   Sesiones plenarias/Msenapuue sacedanua XXII  been éducated In'éxact contrast to thé deals’ which Inspire Unesco; I do not. réfer to official édu="  . cation, to'schools and universities, or even to what Marx called the falsity of high thinking, I re-  fer to that more subtle and pervasiye form of education which young people breathe in froni the .  society in which they live, a kind of deadly. human exhalation which poigons the \ife-of today.  v FRET i, da, larger, à IN ti ABC FE FREI SWE [EEF FUNNEL AGE
(2,28) Youth has experienced the. viojence, of ‘injustice. at homie and abrosd, hes. ithessed the vio-.  lence of racial discrinifnätion, discrimination in education, discrimination in opportunity, and  has sertie seen Ylojence expressed | In International co-exislence with an Intensity à and a 2 gre-  gard tor he’ r a Crm sich, as n Has proba i neyer tik in Ri other à des. ; That ho tn     national justice nd peace; a man who through his work has helped to form contemporary ne,  ; Tam sure that” other ideas and other: ‘views have followed hia, which compare not unfavourably with  the Jnovi; g testimony yhich he yas, able to give, “while others remained silent, , I mention him here  because there is” To Colter p ace for doing : 80, because he Inspired the’ {deals of our youth, which 1  hope aré thése of’ youth today." T'refér to the iistrious French philcsopher Jacques Ma'itain, in  the hope that mentiohof his name and example will act ag’a talisman in the ‘building of the world of  tomorrow - a world which, if it is not based on respect for the rights of man, is doomed to perdition.  : . Ire N :  oi
(2. 30) Although tte words may "be written in the sand, “the Chilean delegation felt it a duty to spell  them out this afternoon. I.thank you, Mr. President, . -
3, Le. PRESIDENT. -  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Chili, et je donne la parole à M, Prem Kirpal,  chef de la délégation de l'Inde.  I . En i
4,1 Mr. KIRPAL/ (India); * : ‘  -Mr. ‘President and fellow delegates, ‘we have come here to considéé a'varied and im-  portant agenda; our decisions will shape the working of Unésco during the next two ÿears  and will also, 1 I hope, lay down decisively the lines for future development on a long-term  basis. .  Tris tons, s 2
4,2 ‘Céñaidérihg that- may ‘of Unesco!s s'uotivities are of a contiiing’s ‘nature and depend;  therefore, on long-term planning in accordance with our potential resources and the require-  ments:of the next four- to six years, the need { for forward d planning with realism and fleki-  bility aritot be ‘dénied: :  DEEP : 7-4 Eo ve en et
4.3 x Was té éénécioustess” of ifs” feed that ied the Executive Bead to récomirièndr nat”  in addition to the/progranime’ for 1971: -1972y} the’ ‘sixteenth session of the Gefniéral Conférénce  should also discuss; in broad outline, the & proposals for the’ suéceëding two biennis-in order  to éstablish an integrated) balanced,’ ahd'flexiblé longiterm plan, ’ And, In fact; ‘during the  current session, we could make a long-term appraisal of the different prôgrarimes-in ‘order  to visualize the targets and requirements for the four succeeding years. Thus, a useful  outline’ of long-term ‘planning’ could be 'formulatéd in our final’ résolution on the: general poli-  cy debalè; and siipplemented by thé récommendations, of the Programme and Administrative  Commissions." ‘  PT € Jet #2 t ta Ta Te  Cars  thé mpaaio tr resourcés for Sang cot operative tasks bps Human veltére.  ENE
4,5 wé regret that éven present ‘resources are not’ ‘aéproyéd’ = ichmitn effect; ‘there are  some bigns'of Waste and extravagance in the ‘spending of money and the mounting céstof ‘
585   XXII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  administration 1s especially disconcerting, A thorough examination and review of the ad-  ministrative machinery,: both at Headquarters and in the field; should result in'substantial  economies and greater efficiency, There 18 a feeling that Unesco's action is éostly and  slow, and the iricreasingly buréauératic character of its operations’ needs to be checked,  The concentration of staff at Headquarters exaggerates this trend and it is time that we  thought about decentralizing the operational machinery. '
4,6 The possibility of sétting up régional commissions to implement the ‘ prograipme should  be examined, . This development could lead to a desirable devolution of authority and greater  co- ordination with: the activities of Member States, We suggest that the General Conference  might instruct the. Executive Board to examine this aspect and to submit a report for con-  sideration at its next session,
4,7 During the dst decade, ‘Uriesco re soûght to assist. its Member States, particularly  the developing, nations, in ‘shaping their programmes “of éducational 'dévéldpment, Edüca-  tion canriot be, considered. in isolation : or planned ina vacyum, ’ It isa powerful’ instrument  of social, ‘economie ‘and, political charge, and must ‘therefore be. related to the. long- term  national aspirations. of the developing States, their plans of- national. development and their  pressing short-term problems, ; Two years ago, in order to achlave an educational revolu-  tion on a vast scale,’ & National Educational Commission appointed by the Government of  India produced, with assistance from Unesco, an.important report desigried to transform  the educational system in India so as to relate it to the life, needs and aspirations of the  country, to effect qualitative improvement of standards of education and to plan for ade-  quate expansion of educational factlities in the interests of social, economic and cultural  development.
4,8 On the basis of this report, the Government of India has formulated a National Policy  on Education. We invite the co-operation of Unesco and of any Member States, who may de-  sire to participate in any way in our massive drive for educational change, and we hope to  learn and profit from the experience of others, :
4, 9 There are other developing countries which, like India, are seeking to , transform their  traditional societies in the facé of challenges posed by science and technology; in these  efforts Unesco's role isthat of a catalyat inhelping them to achieve the desired transformation.
4, 10 ‘The, essence of education 1s that it is a dynamie and 1ife- Jong. process. | At the. present  time, when the boundaries of knowledge are expanding so quickly, and the population. explo-  sion in many parts of the world confronts us with problems never before envisaged, Unesco  should aid developing countries to renew and reinvigorate their systems of education, to  modernize them for ‘economic and social change, and to transform their structure and con-  tent, The year 1970 is to be celebrated as International Education- Year, and Unesco  should intensify its efforts to strengthen education as a major instrument of change 1 in de- .  veloping. societies. :
4, 1; We. regret, ‘that the. excellent, recommendations, made by the: recent International. Con-  ference on Educational Planning in Paris and by the Regional. Confererice on Education at  Nairobi have not been sufficiently reflected in the proposed programme, I suggest that the  General Conférerice might direct the Executive Board and the Director-General to find  means of initiating the implementation. of these recommendations in the next biennium,
4, 2 ‘New strategies must be devised for ‘educational dévelopment. In the. past, Inter;  national action and aid have often béen directed at ‘trénsplanting the ‘educational systems  and experiences ¢ of the affluent Western, societies’ to the newly-independent and déveloping  countries of ‘Asia. and Africa, regardless of local, conditions and needs. Educational’ change  in the ‘developing world must emanate from the’ realities of each society, and new methods  and techniques must be applied as fully as possible in order to achieve as speedily as pos-  sible both the expansion of facilities and qualitative improvement in content, It is Unesco's  task, to ‘stréngthen international, co- operation 80 as to make such development possible.
4,13, The réorientation of education is intimately linked with the upsurge and revolt of ..  youth, : which is one of the biggest problems:in the world today, - Never in history has. the  gulf and the conflict between generatioris been so great, A Secretariat report on youth is  on our agenda and shows that between 1960 and 1965 the world student population increased  by 61 per cent.. The widespread student unrest which has:led to tragic violence in many  countries pin-points the need for Unesco to implement a far-reaching programme of youth  activities, Young people must be helped to transcend the barriers - both mental and physi-  cal - which divide nations and comrhunities and.encouraged.to work for peace and inter-  national understanding, .I hope that International Education Year will also pay the fullest  attention to youth activities, In fact, I would suggest that it might be given a new dimen-  sion and be called " International Youth and Education Year",  a, 14; ‘The, youth révoluh6}'n now. in progress will ‘have, a profound impact on educational,  thinking and practice, In _many countries, student groups are demanding participation in  education at the univertity- level, They:aré calling for the removal of barriers between the  student, and. proféssqrial functions and for active participation by students in the administra-  tion of universities.… .Thig need not be viewed as an erosion of the teacher's authority, -  which is ultimately based on personal qualities so that a good teacher will always command  respect, .Partioipation.of students in higher education at the decision-taking level may ul-  timatély lead to the shared management of university administration, including discipline.  It is interesting to note that the educational changes now under consideration in our host  country, ; France, provide for such active student participation. . Similar changes may be  contemplated elsewhere and I think that they will result in the strengthening of the univer-  sities on a basis of partnership hetween teachers and taught, . .
4.15 In this connexion I would like to mention the profound value, of work experience in re-  lating education to the life of the community, The Indian Education Commission has defined  work experience as participation in productive work at school, at home, in workshops or on  farmg, in fagtories or in any other productive situation. . I believe that all good and pur-  poseful education, should include, work experience and social service in order to integrate  the way.of life of young people with the Life of the community and provide them with a valu-  able outlet for self-expression. .
4,16 "Another aspect of education which is at: the heart of Unesco! 8 mission is ‘education  for international understanding, | Unesco! 8 Associated Schools Project alms at establishing  systems of education whereby young children, who are the citizens of tomorrow,, learn to  understand the cultures of other countries and are taught respect for human rights, and free-  doms and the concept of a united world community which 1s the goal of the entire United  Nations sytem: In fetid we have implemented this exportmnnt! programme : with conspi-  tion for Iarnatioal Understanding, As. suggested by Unesco; we are “also trying out the  project’ in selected primary schools, 1 would invite your attention to the resolution pro-  posed. by] India, suggesting that this programme be implemented more intensively, with spe-  cial’ attention to ‘the rôle of education’ in promoting peace and combating the harmful ‘effects  of racial ‘prejudice ¢ and the, other irrational antagonisms which divide. the world; -1 also,  welcome the resolitions’ introduced on this subject by Austria and Yugoslavia. ‘Unesco  should do everything | possible. to ‘promote. the effective implementation of a recent recom-  mendation adopted by the International Conference on Public Education at its XXXIst session  in Geneva concerning education for international understanding as an integral part of the  curriculum and life of the school,  rcetrart  sions in the Member, States, Each National Commission is naturally conditioned by the tra-  ditions, practices and ideals of its national society and there are ineyitably wide differences
587   XXII . Seslones plenärlas / ltenapuue sacedanus  in their: organizational patterns ‘and modés of action, In the midst of this: natural diversity,  we are witnessing: thé ‘gradual emerïgénce of a: unity of outlook’ and purpose; derived from  the growing fatth of the peoples’ of the world in thé objectives’ of Unesco ‘and: in international  co-operation; ’ Almost everywhere, ‘the National Commissions have grown: beyérid the sorne-  what limitéd conception of their functions set out in Unesco's Constitution and this natural  development holds: great hope for the future: .  or pt VTT PI A ; Pode SE 1% "br ET
4, 18 Every National’ Coïirhitséion should be authorized by | the govérnment té. éstébiteh -  direct ‘co- operation ‘with other Natiônal Commissions: and prepare plans'and’ projects for:  this purpose: By initiating such: projects,’ the National’ ‘Comthissions’ Would’ in’ effect’ bring  the governments of Memder States into a' co-operative endeavour reflecting thé aspirations  of their peoples, Both the intergovernmental character of Unesco and broad and spontaneous  co- operation among peoples must be developed and’ strengthened by the: énergy' and’ Wisdom  of the!National Commissions, - The latter form à uhique and’ signifitant’ diménsion of i  Unesco's’ ‘activities and, - at their best, should: ‘promote Unesco's objéétives and programmes  and provide. dt with an‘impetis towards new ideas and bold initiatives ‘which come more  readily’ frori frèé, au creative minds ‘and groups than from Saitious governments. ;  | ' EAST IE oo
4,19 At tho sheeting of a sub regional Working grotip of Nattonal Comiriitesidha held i  Delhi ih Apeiyy ‘and at the’ Conference of ‘Asian National: ‘Commissions; held in Tokyo" th Sop  tember, ‘the ‘consensus of views’ ‘eXpressed Wis that while‘ Member’ States’ Bhoûld stréngthen  their National Commiésions and’give them adequate help/' Unescd'also'should éxiend greatér  assistance'to’enable’ National Commissions to exercisd thelr” growirig responsibilities in the  fields of Unesco's action, These proposals have beén embodiéd in the form of resolutions  which have been placed | before the General Conference and I hope they will receive the  widest support from the’ delegations. 1  LI , r LU a 1s  - 4,20 I béliève that:our Oi ganization Shida sive more: 6 éimphaèle té thé , contitbiilon that the  social scierices can make td’ social and’ eéonomic plañhing; * The prépgsal to sonvéhe an -  international conferericë if 1970 on thé theme” Social Sciences dnd ‘Development! is'very  welcome. This’ conferericé will’ presiimably ‘discuss the ‘sérvides that'the social sciénces  can render to development and their efficient use in the framtñg éf policiés ‘ atid’ ‘the plèn-  ning and execution of “developmeiit programmes. In so far as developing countries are  concerned; more Work is required’ on the social and economic ahalysis of: their problems,  including the population ‘explosion; - - family" planning and the migration of talent or the )  "brain-drain'’. - In India, ‘ whéré the "brain drain" has become a serious problem, we are  now engaged, in collaboration With Unesco, on a study in depth of this Subject.
4; 21° 1 wing algo tke to corimend 1% 3 you' the “project € on ‘Man and his Ehyigofmgnt ;  otherwise known as ' ‘Design for Living! “Détailed: stildies’ ‘should bé Made frômi'all’arigles,  inclÿding ‘the social and the biological," ‘or Man's rôlé In ‘changing his’ environrent and. -  miliel 4nd ‘éreating thé conditions fèr a bétteÿ way ‘ôf Life iii tHe ‘context’ ‘of ‘science’ afid tech.  nology The ‘Indian delegation’ 18 ‘anxious to make it ‘clef’ that, while dae attention should’  bé give to Sovlrontibms) reséäroh and planntñg the tes should’ hot becom nants an  Dlittaieil wy  oF 14 5 re 5 . Lt AT : 3e
4, iz We are : tid hak the. irost ‘projet & for the preservatiéi ‘of the ‘Abi stihbof — in  the United Arab Republic, has been successfully. completed, This remarkable achievement  is aii"example of ‘Go-ordinated’ intéritätiohal endeavour at'îts best; Thèrë are Othe’ tegions  of the world fvhele ‘sifhilar efforts are necessary. ‘India ahd “Atghantatai have co-bponsored '  a resolution tor: thé ‘présérvétion’ ‘of the anclent’ Buddhist Monuments at’ Bamiyan'in’ ‘Afghaït:.  stan.; Thègé great ‘mohaménts’ are now in serious peril dnd may bé lost té hurianity thléss  inteénétionél ‘action 1s ‘takeri speedily to’ preserve therhy from the ravages of ‘time, ‘ We hope  Unesco will ‘act swiftly and efféctively to save this precious héfitage of mankind.
4,23. After completion of its major project on mutual appreciation of Eastern and Western  cultural yalues,. Unesco decided to initiate a new project on the civilization of:the peoples  of Central Asia; due to last from 1967 to-1970, The purposé of this projeot'1s to make :  better known the civilizations of the peoples of Central Asia through studies of their archae-  ology, history, sclence, art and literature, - I believe that impressive work is being done  in connexion with the project, Considering its wide scope, both in space and time, I would  suggest that it might be continued beyond the proposed four-year period, - °
4,24 ; Turning to the chapfer on natural sciences, 1 would like, to refer fo the important  Conference of Aglan Ministers of Education, Sclence, Technology and Planning on the,  Application of Scie ce and Technology to the Development of Asia, which was held by,  Unesgo in Delhi last August, ,.I hope that the recommendation of that, Conference will be.  reflected in'the discussions of the appropriate çub-commission, and that its work will de-  cisively, influence the formulation of our pattern of activities in the future. ; The Secretariat  might apply the data received from CASTASIA when revising the science chapter for the  next biennium, - The resolutions of the CASTASIA Conference on many important subjects,  must be carefully studied by Unesco and other appropriate agencies of the United Nations ..  for preparation of adequate programmes. ,  . TEE NC TE TRY SERED SO nl FS LL AA 781 ae SE LA rte Le 4 1
4,25. One of the midst significant proposals made by, the Director-General is for. project  on space satellite conimunication in one of the, developing countries, . Space satellite.coms  munication will revolutionize the mass media and transform education and mass çommuni-  cation beyond all récognition. A Unesco mission which visited India in.1967 was convinced  that the quickest and cheapest way of achieving some of the major objectives of India's de-  velopment plan was by mens of a satellite system integrated with the terrestrial communi-  cations’ and broadcasting facilities. The requiréments of literacy, the expansion and im. ;  provement of schoo] éducation, Health and 1 ipiily planning, the improvement of agricultural  production,’ rural aiid urban community development, All these important tasks could be’  assisted beyond all expectations by satellite technology, The Unesco miéalun, therefore,  took the view that it would be feasible and desirable to institute a pllot project on satellite  communication in India and Iam glad to say that the Government of India is actively in.  terested in this. Studies in depth on the technical and engineering aspects of the problem,  as well as on the question of programming, are being undertaken with a view to reaching a  definite decisfon. We are asking Unesco for assistance for preparatory work on studies  connected with the project. Co . : co a
4.26 I am pleased to inform the Géñefal ‘Cofiférendé that, in 'côrinexioï with tee’ corfifiemo-  ration of the, Twentieth Anniversary of Unesco in 1966, the Shri Aurobindi Society, Pondi-  cherry, India, took steps to establish an international cultural téwnship known'as Auroville,  where people of difféfert cultures‘will'livé togéther in one community and éngage in cultural,  educational and bther pursuits} This pkéject was:commended to all those interested in -  Unesco's ideals by resolution 4:36 adopted at thé fourtéenth session of the Conference. We  are confident that Auroville, with its many interrelated sub-projects, will add a new dimen-  sion to Unesco's activities for the promotion of international co-operation and understand.  ing and appreciation of: cultural and human values. .. We have put forward a resolution re- ..  questing the Director-General to examine the possibility of rendering assistance to Auroville.     in Mahatma Gandhi's message.  ‘wad Voy Much concèrned with’ ‘was ÿêky much i  international understanding, should havé a special interes  Gandhi believed ini non-violence as à positive rénéloté ad Yay mu w  tnd ineans'Läéd, stick he Hab convit Lod that the Mheéils invatioblÿ shape thé éhds. A 1érdb  flimber of délegations have introduce] à resélution inviting Unesco and Membér States to  participate in observance of the Gandai Centenary and we hope that this requést will receive
689   XXII Plenary meetings /Séances plénières  favourable consideration by the Conference, I am-glad to note that; subject to the'approval  of the General. Conference, the Director-General prôposes to hold an intéfnational seminar  in October 1969 ori the thème " Truth and Non-Violenté in Gandhi's Humanism, { We hope  that this séminar Will examine the ways and mearis which Mahatma" Gandhi used to achieve  his ehds'and will discuss his techniques and methods of discipline for non-violent action :  ahd his pursuit of truth as an end in itself, - These are matters of universal concern in the  present state of the world,  hushed  plans of individual countries, We must stress the importance of re thé pepe  for the Second Decade, assoclating governments with these preparations, and reaching agree-  ment on the measures to be taken by governments and: internatiofial agencies for the ‘im- -  plementation of the objectives and targets. We hope that the resolution on the Development  Decade initiated by Yugoslavia and sponsored by many countries will be adopted unanintous-  ly by the Conference.’  A
4,30 We must once again appeal to Member States to 'niake every fort ‘to’ achieve the’ êb-  jectives of the Dévelopment Décade’. Developing countries: éhould ensure ‘raximüm national  participation in the tasks of the Decade and fostér a ‘spirit of ‘sélf-reliance if ‘success is'to’  be achieved. It is incumbent on the more fortunate developed ‘countries to increase ‘their  contributichs towards the achievements of objectives of the’ Decade and to maintain and in-  tensity their efforts to Increase the financial résources of the international ‘organizations  of the United Nations. I believe that the world can depend on their generosity and co-  operation.
5. Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de l'Inde et je donne la parole à S, Exc. M, Han  Lih-Wu, chef de la a délégation de la République de Chine. . .
6.1, Me. HAN LIH-WU (China):  - First of all I wish to join other delegations in extending to you, Mr. President, our  congratulations on your unanimous election to the highest. office in the Conference and to  the Director-General on his reappointment to the leadership of the Secretariat.
6.2 I also wish to congratulate those participants and friends of Unesco who have received  honcurs from this and othér internaticnal bodies, and the United States delegation o on nthe  success of its country! 8 latest apace exploration. = :
6.3 I should also Like to paÿ my delegâtion! 8 tribute to those who have' died in the last two  years. In this'connexion, I must regretfully announce’ ‘that Di+'Chen Tlen-fañg} ‘Chairman  of our National Commission and leader of the Chinese delegation at the last three sessions,  and r ‘may. ‘add; my immediate süccessor as Minister of Education, passed away last’ year.  I am sure’ this is ‘grievous news to all of you who knew him. |  + Le ta case!
6.4 The beitod \inder review, "1066 to 1068, lg an éstremely, nugnitieét one’ for “chier ‘In  edücation, after three Years of plañning and preparation, an, extènsion of ‘compulsory ‘edu-  cation from six to nine years was put into operation throughout Taiwan and Kinmen a8 ‘from race,  September 1968. i
6.6 Nearly 800 hew'schools were built and 6, 000 extra teachers were trained to’ cope with  nearly 400, 000 ‘children who had completed six-year. courses at elementary ’schools and  who entered this fall into the extended three-year course ; involving a special appropriation  equivalent to US $85,000,000 for 1968 to 1970. The Republic of China thus becomes the.  second country in Asia‘ to have a nine-year compulsory elementary education. -
6. 6 We, recall y with pleasure. that, twenty-one. years ago, the first Asian Regional Study -  Conference. under Unesco's auspiges.. which was held in Nanking, and over which I had the  honour to preside, was devoted solely to the promotion of fundamental education, As a  loyal member of Unesco, my country has therefore done its best to conform with its pro-  gramme and objectives. -
6.7 ‘For ‘the! advancement ‘of Sélence, a Science Promotion Guidance Commission Was.  formed in 1967 under the National Defense Couneil, and | a special ‘appropriation ot US  $60, 000, 000 was made for à promotional programme : ‘covering advanced training and re-  search § in various branches of science and technology. a. , ,Ç
6:8 In the" cultural Tied, 4 is’ noteworthy that â médalÿe movement ‘for the proséivaf for  and prothotion of tradittdrial Chinese ‘culture was "1éünched by ‘the’ Government and pe ple”  in'Decembër 1968, A national commitiée was ebtablished'In'Julÿ 1967, with branches all ‘  over Taiwan and Kinmén as well as in the principal Chinese communities abroad. The  objectives of the movement are the revival and adaptation of traditional Chinese thought  and ‘ethics to Modern life ‘As is wellknown, the core of Chinesé thought is Confüélantani,  which is’ both’ hurhanistié and rationalistic with an emphasis on a code ‘of ethics.’ Its pro-  motion {a not only complémentary to the further develon> ent of science and democracy,  but serves also as an effective antidote to the spread of cotalitarian thought which is essen-  tially un-Chinege .
6.9 Nor is this" ally’ The erécitionat Chinese culture is a mainstream of Eäâtern culture  which is both arctent and rich, particularly in art and philosophy . Compared with the "  East, the West enjoys an enviable lead in science and’ technology: ‘We, the nations ‘of Asia,  cannot but be thankful for the opportunities afforded’ us of sharing the advances made by the  West. Nevertheless, with the material progress of the West reaching such an advanced  stage, could it be that its cultivation of spiritual values has, in comparison, rather lagged  behind?
6.10 For one thing, there are all the various gaps, gaps between the older and younger  generations, gaps between affluence and happiness, gaps between leisure and its meaning-  ful enjoyment, ete. - 0. ; .
6,11 For ‘another; this is ‘an age of exposure and disbellef ‘Technical advances have re-  vealed many of the secrets of nature and matter, and the physiology of the human body has  been thoroughly Investigated.
6,12 Inquisitivèness : and the relentless unravelling of hidden phenomena, while conducive  to knowledge, also carry with them the seeds of disbelief. This is particuiarly so in the,  light of an accelerated reliance on mechanical devices. and gadgets designed te to reduce both  physical and intellectual effort. ; : ‘
6.13 1 read, some time ago that an 2 IBM machine, ted with. the! recesgaly ‘data, ‘could fore-  cast the lot. of any particular person. in a matter, of minutes. Now, i human destiny. is fully  predetermined by a juxtaposition of physical : and chemical factors, then what 18 left of the  dignity of man and his personality? ‘And what will be the ‘oftect, on our faith in God, and in  man himself?
6.14 “any 4 We ‘have, on the ‘one ‘hand, "Hojalitérian systeme “with t heir. concentration € camps,  ‘secret police, ‘callous Shins and ruthiess suppression, and, on the ‘other. hand, a deep.  desire tor peace. on the part of the democratic states. A dopble, ‘standard is accepted and.  we are often impelled to ask: where is the conscience and voice of mankind? NT
591   XXII Plenaty meetings / Séances plénières
6:15 All-this:has-led us.to think that perhaps the philosophies and éthics of China and the  East; with their emphasis on spiritual and moral valyes,: dan make a significant'contribu-  tion to meeting. the needs of ithe ‘present times I do not subscribe; however;' to the: view.  that the West is solely: materialistic and the East wholly spiritual, although I do think that  in an age whén we éan travel in space and voyage into the océan deeps, the Chinese tradi-  tional concept of a synthetic comprehension of man, matter and universe may be a useful  complement to the ‘analytic and compärtmentalized ‘concepts of the Wést!"In any case, the  promotion’ of traditional Chinese culture cannot but be an ‘asset to the cultural life of man-  kind as a whole :
6.16. Reverting to some of the special features obtaining in the fields of £ education, sclerice  and culture in my country qver the last two years, I am happy | to be able to report that de-  velopmient Was, normal LL d 1h iid cases faster than Pose Pa © oh  e it  Pin “te PN  jy esi de hi YT (14 22 xt  Fa  and chore, to, nations : in Asia, the ‘Middle ‘East, Europe and Latin America, representing more  than 1, 200 experts and technicians. Q . , 0 ra ; ;
6.19 A cultural heritage going back five thousand years has left China with a Yast ‘collec-  tion of art treasures The cream. of:the. collection, totalling 250, 000 items, 18 now housed  ina modern’ museum -in Taipel which- opened two years ago. During the period under-re-.  view, the’ museum, besides holding regular exhibitions, has enlarged its publications, pro-  gramme. by printing. colour reproductions, slides, and photographic, copies available to the  general public and for exchanges with museums and other institutions. Thus the priceless  paintings, bronzes, jades, porcelain, carvings, .ete., rarely seen before, are now acces-  sible to all.
6.20 As one who helped with the removal: of the‘ art/treasurés from thainland China to ous  provisional ‘éapital;'I take’ pariicular satisfaction’in the fact that the collection is riow well  cared for and is fast becoming a major attraction for tourists from all ovér the world: ‘-  This is certainly a ‘useful contribution to international understanding and cultural exchanges,  and is in full’ conformity’ with a major Unesco objective - namely, the preservation ‘of man! 8  artistic and ‘ciltural heritage.’ 2
6.21 Let us now consider the situation in mainland China from the educational and cultural  point’ of view 6 ‘Schools were ‘closed’ an 1966" when students” were: érganized' into’ Red Guards  who' roamed ovei "the county as a spearhead of the sirugglé for power. - Their excesges |  crédtéd widesphead Hobtllity) particularly as' tar ds thé army wa ‘dotitérned., Ag” a ‘result,  they were summoned back to school in 1967, but the schools Were than'in ‘a’ ‘éhaotic 'dondi~:  tion and their: principal occupation was the. study of Maoist thought. In order to achieve  furthér éatrol” over thé students Hid politiélze éducation; thé so-called " ali-out educational  reform" ir August this your’ ‘stipulated’ thafy’ instead ‘of having à school prinéipaly ‘there -  should be'a ‘Comittee for " educational’ revolution" comprising workers! and “peanatits’ :  représentatives; ‘aloïg with teachers and students. TT ol Cah
6.22 Apparently the workers are now given pre cedence, for the New, China News Agency,  ‘réportéd In’ the là er ‘part ‘of last August that iséfuotions Had bebñii iivék that’ the, ‘go-called  " workérs propa ganda téâmé" in most caged’ consisting’ of one, should + ead per-  mevientiÿ ‘fn the” 6 ehodts, nat only taking part. in transforming thé’ échoolë ut  attildlly'c domi-  nating them. ~~" "
6.23 It was also reported that there was a movement to shorten the length of primary edu-  cation from six to five years, secondary education from six to’ four, and university educa-  tion from four to two or three years. If adopted, this ‘decision would mean that the stan-  dard of university graduates on mainland China would be about the same as high school  graduates elsewhere.
6.24 "The educational, revolution" ie, of course, part of the ! "cultural revolution! , What  is the " cultural revolution". and what. effect has it had on Chinese culture? It is alméd at  the suppression, first, of traditional Chinese culture ,; second of. modern revisionism, and,  third, of bourgeois thinking and tendencies, Maolst thought, ‘meaning an incessant struggle  to achieve pure Communism through the establishment of communes, is regarded as being  of paramount importance, Has the revolution succeeded? Will it succeed? And what  would be its consequences? These are questions beyond the purview of this report.
6.25 However, I cannot but recall that Unesco was founded immediately after the‘ Second  World War to construct the defences of | peace ‘in the minds of men, Let me therefore ask,  which is more conducive to peace - ‘traditional Chinese culture or Maoist thought?
6.26 Concerning the organizational side of Unesco, I-would like to point out that many  Member States, mine included, are still under=represented in the Secretariat, My dele-  gation also wishes to reiterate our strong support for the recommended increase of mem-  bership of the Executive Board to 34, two more for Asia and two for Africa and the Arab  nations. .  "6.27 Finally, allow me to express my pleasure at attending the Conference again. At the  second session, in Mexico, I had the privilege of presiding over the Administration Com-  mission and I am struck by the considerable and gratifying increase in the size of the Con-  ference since then.
6.281 wish, ‘However, there were less ‘politicking.’ During’ the ‘general policy. debate, for  instance, ‘certain’ delegates expressed regret at ty ‘absence of North Korea, North Viet- *  Nami, ‘the Chinese Communists and so ‘forth,’ ‘régin es ‘that ilkè to call themselves demoera-  tic while exploiting the people. I do'nof propose té offer a lengthy statement: in rebuttal’  but I should 1iké to praise the solid achievement of the Republic of Korea in’ éducation,  science and culture, and of the Republic of Viet-Nant‘in pursuing the ‘objectives’ of Unesco  in the face of tremendous difficulties. As to the Peiping régime, it was designated an  aggressor by the United Nations i-,°1950, and the even greater threat which it now repre-  sents to world civilization and peace should be denounced by this Organization:
6.29 Leaving this aside, I would like to say ‘that the complexity of the Unesco’ programe  has increased to such an extent that we are likely to be immersed in technical details and  hencé’ perhaps ‘overlook'its basic! objectives dnd main lines of action. ‘From five or six"  million dollars’ in the early years, the annual budget has now risen to over séventy’ millions.  Certainly, a great déal has been accomplished iri many fields of endedvour; nevertheless,  instead of permitting the programme and budget to expand much further, may I suggest  that the Execiitive Board and the Director-General consider ‘appointing an independent com-  mission of inquiry to evaluate our past programmes and expenditures so that we'have a  better guide for the futife. As one of the earliest participants in Unesco's work, I venture  to submit this for your consideration.
7, Le PRESIDENT. - =  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de là République dé § Chine’ et je donrie la parole  à S, Exc, M, 1ssak, ministre de l'éducation, chef de la délégation de Somalie,
8,1- Mr. 1SSAK (Soiriaita):- Sands '  Mr: Président, ‘distinguished dèlegates, it gives me , great Pleaure to exténd té you;  Mri Président;'imÿy heartiost congratulatiofis ‘on your unanimous election to’ your high post:  My delegation ‘has the greatest admiration’ Yor you and’ your country ‘and we’are ‘confident ‘  that you will fulfil the responsibility entrusted to you to the satisfaction of all of us.
593   XXI1 . Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
8.2 I would like also to tongratulate all those among us who'havé been elected to office for  this fifteenth session of theiUnesco General Conference y ‘I wish them all success and hope  that, with ourico-operation, both individually and collectively, the Planned objectives of  the various commissions and committees will be realized. '
8. 3 On behalf of my delegation and my country, I would also lke. to express our gratitude  and appreciation’ to the Nominations Committee," and particuld arly to my’ African, colleagues  on that Committee; for having elected Me a Vice-Président of this session of the General  Conferénce’y This is the first time that my county has béen honoured in'this way, ‘and T°  hope that I shall prove worthy of this high task, which X shall try to carry ‘out to the very’  best of iny ability.
8.4 My delegation als désires to express our appreéiation’to Professor Tuncel, Head of  the Turkish delegation, who presided over the fourteenth session with. such efficiençy and  SUCCESS; :Nor should I fail to mention the: “hospitality of the French Government and people  in arranging for our stay in Paris . On kthalf of my delegation I tender our thanks to them.
8,5 My delegation hag examined with’ great interest the documents rèceivèd'frôm Unesco  Headquarters in-connexion with this fifteenth‘sessior of the General Conference... We are  therefore able to express full approval of the items under conéidération in the present de-  bate: ‘itern 9, Reports by the Director-General on the activities of thé Organization in  . 1966, 1967 and 1968; item 10, Evaluation by the Director-General; item 12, Report by  the Executive Board on its own activities; and item 18, General consideration of the pro-  gramme and budget for 1969-1970.
8.6 We’ are all ‘aware of the taiportäné work ‘that’ TS is doïné for the achieyement of  permanent peace and prosperity throughout the world, Our Organization, ff collaboration’  with the governments of Member States, with the United Nations and its Specialized Agen-  cles and other international organizations, is erideayouring to spread its limited resources,  both human and’ material ' to almost all the rations of the world for the purpose, of extending  and improving’ education, eradicating illiteracy, developing education, science and techno-  logy in the interests of peace, preserving and enriching culture and, in short, pursuing  the objectives. for which it was founded.
8.7 During the two. brief decades of its existence, Unesco has already helped Member  States, and particularly the developing countries, to organize their educational, scientific  and cultural activities, acting as an 1 effective bridge between the developed and the under-  developed nations. . .
8.8. However, although Unesco is making e every effort to meet the increasing ‘demands of  all Member States in solying their various problems, the Organization will be, unable to  fmplement 1 its ‘plans : und ideas without 4 having adequate resources at its disposal.  L430 10 BAT A APT  countries to raise their ‘standard ‘of culture and gain a ‘deeper understanding of the many  critical problems confronting the world today. Only in this way can mankind 4 perhaps pre-  serve peace and make the world a better place to be. in. .
8.10 The ‘hewly emerging’ ‘sodieties are ‘facing’ Tumerous problems in building ‘their nations.  The inheritance of foreign cultures left behind by the colonial powers-is.the factor that re-  tards.their development, To cite a typical example, Mr. President, despite the ‘fact that  Somalis; wherever they may be, are homogeneous, - ethnically; linguistically. and religious-  ly - it will require a long time and much effort to develop their inherited cultures into a  single national culture. 1 Co … ‘
8,11 ‘With the assiètance of Unesco and: other intérnational organizations and’ ‘friendly nas  tions, we have achieved tangible success in the field of education since independence, ‘We  have been able to unify the various’ educational systems existing in the céuntry at that time;  to lay sound foundations for the development of the curriculum and textbook: ‘production; to  improve the quality of teacher training; both in-service and pre=~servicej: té expand and :  diversify education especially at the secondary.level; in accordance with the manpower  requirements of the country; to establish a few urgently needed institutions of higher learn-  ing; to expand Hteracy campaigns, encourage female education and improve educational  administration.
8.12 Somalia: considers that the development of education) culture arid science should be  among the first priorities in the process of nation building. This year alone we have in- -  creased our budgetary. allocations for education and training by 12 per cent over the amount  spent last year, at the ‘expense of other urgent national requirements. À prerequisite’ for  development and progress is an appreciation of the fact they are mainly dependent on the -  expansion of education and training for as many members of society as possible, and the  production of the right ratio of qualified manpower able to o make the best use af the limited  resources In the country. : .
8.13 The Somali’ delegation contends that without thé People's Republic of China, ‘a coms  try representing one quarter’of the world population and possessing immense ‘cultural:and  scientific resources, our Organization cannot ‘properly be regarded as international. We  also believe that so'long ‘as colonization; apartlieid and racial discrimination exist in any  part of the world, and particularly in Africa, the efforts of the United Nations (and its ._  Specialized Agencies; especially Unesco, whichis dealing with the most delicate: aspects’  of nation building, will be inevitably jeopardized. It is therefore our hope, ‘as has already  been stressed in item 11 (Implementation of the resolutions of the fourteenth session of the  General Conference) that this Conference will condemn the countries concerned and oblige  them to end their barbaric policies,
8.14 Last but not least, the Somali delegation associates itaelt with those who have ex-  pressed their complete satisfaction with the services. rendered by the Director-General, :  Mr. René Maheu. We fully supported his candidature this time, as we did when he was -  first elected Director-General at the twelfth session of the General Conference. It is:  therefore with great pleasure that we extend to him our heartiest congratulations on his  unanimous and unopposed re-election.
8.15 We are confident, Mr. President A that under his wise leadership and with his a ccu-  mulated experience, Unesco will flourish and spearhead the achievements of peace and  prosperity, contributing through its noble work to the easing of the tensions and crises .  that are threatening the existence of mankind. -
9, Le PRESIDENT. - 2  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de Somalie et je donne la parole à S. A, Sisowath  Essaro, chef de la délégation du Cambodge.
10,1 S; A Steowath ESSARO (Cambodge): - : ‘  Monsieur le Président, qu'il mé soit permis tout d'abord de vous adresser. mes félici-  tations les plus ‘chaleureuses à-l'oécaston'de votre élection uñanime aux hautes fonctions  de président de la quinzièrie session ‘de la'Conférence générale de l'Unesco. Je suis con-  vaincu qu'aveo votre sagesse, votre diplomatie et votre longue expérience acquiée au sein  de notre Organisation, vous saurez conduire les travaux de notre Conférence vers des:  conclusions des plus heureusés. -
10.2 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, je voudrais ensuite sa-  luer la venue à l'Unesco des quatre’ pays qui en sont devenus membres depuis: la- quator-  zième session dè la Conférence générale et souhaiter qu'avec l'appui de notre Organisation,  dans le cadre d'une action concertée, conduite en collaboration avec les institutions soeurs
585   XXII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  des, Nations Unies, ils bénéficient d'un déve? oppement rapide dans les domaines de l'éduca-  ton, de. la science et de la culture, a. .  saan! 1s  jo. 8. Je e: 'tiens, également a exprimer, au nom du Cambodge; ma vive gratitude à l'Unesco,  qui-n'a cessé d'apporter à mon pays son constant soutien, et à reconnafirz l'importance de  l'oeuvre qu'elle a accomplie avec la plus grande détermination,
10, 4. Mais, en rendant hommage par ma voix à l'Unesco,- 1e Cambodge, du fait de sa situa-  tion géographique et politique, ne saurait perdre de vue que toute oeuvre durable en: ma--  tière d'éducition, de science et de culture, demeure conditionnée par la sauvegarde de la  paix. ‘La proximité des foyers d'affrontement armé, les dangers'd'exténsion du conflit et  les menaces graves qui pèsent constamment sur notre pays nous réhdent, particulière-  ment sensibles A.cette yérité première, et l'on nous pardonnera, je pense, -de répéter inlas-  sablement notre conviction angoissée que la paix, le retour et le maintien de la paix, doivent  rester le premier objectif de la collaboration internationale. Toutes les fôrmes de coopé-  ration doivent concourir à ce but, .  . +. ï PRE H
10, 5 Le Cambodge, d'une manière définitive, adopte la voie de la: neutralité et du- non-  alignement, car il a conscience que cette politique lui permet de travailler à la réalisation  de la paix, qui,‘ pour nous, pays du Sud-Est asiatiqué, n'est pas seulement un idéal lointain,  mais une urgence immédiate, une angolase de tous los instants.
10. 6 En cette année. 1968, “déclarée; par l'Assemblée générale: dès. Nations Unies; Année  internationale des droits de l'homme, pour commémorer'le vingtième anniversaire de la-  Déclaration universelle - anniversaire à -l'océasion duquel uhé-conférenée internationale a  réuni, - en avril-mai’derniers à Téhéran, des’ personnalités. spécialement quälifiées’ de  toutes les nations pour participer à ‘une grande ‘confrontation des cultures, des traditions  historiques, des conceptions: politiques ‘et des idées- religieuses et philosophiques - 11 in-  combe à tous et à chacun, plus que jamais, d'oeuvrer inlassablement en vue d'obtenir une  coopération Internationale effective, prélude a la paix,
10.7 - Le Gouvernement royal du: Cambodge- n'a jamais perdu de + vue: des impératifs; Ti n'a  jamais failli à ld-politique pacifiqué et d'oùuVerture iritérnationalé' qu'il’a librement choisie  au lendemain du retour du Cambodge à l'indépendance; ‘cdr, respectant les'libertés fonda-  mentales, il est toujours inspiré et guidé par la philosophie bouddhique; basée/sur le res- -  pect de la vie, sur l'égalité entre tous les êtres, sur la’ compassion - et la tolérance, et il  a toujours eu pour principal souci le bonheur de l'homme et du peuple - de tous les hommes  et ‘de tous les peuples.” ‘  EERIE 5, > FN oct - Sant 4 2° '
10,8. Toute action: sincère € en faveur. de 1a. -paix-au sein des organisations Internationales a  toujours’ regu son appui sans réserve - ‘quand il n'en était pas: l'initiateur: = dès lors qu'elle  n ‘exprimait aucune marioeuvr e, aucune arriére- -pensée, Cette politique a ‘permis au Cum-  bodge de sauvegarder une unité, un équilibre et une neûtralité assez exceptionnels dans une  des zones du monde où la violerice se.déchaîne sans mesuré, Ce résultat, dont il ne nous pa-  raft pas, illégitime d'être fier, absorbe une grande part. de nos. énergies, : La paix que nous  connaissons, et pour laquelle nous luttons, n'est. jamais un acquis’ définitif : : ‘sans cesse,  elle se trouve menacée, remise en cause, sans cesse bon mathtiën’ ‘exigé de nous de nom-  breux efforts, ‘de nouveaux efforts, ‘de. ‘nouveapx sacrifices, Et pourtant, la poursuite de  cet objectif. majeur, malgré les efforts qu'il. requiert, “n'a ‘pas stériltsé fintre’ action dans -  d'autres domaines, en particulier dans celui de l'éducation. -A l'abri de la stabilité poli-  tique qu'il a su:maintenir, -1é Gouvernement-royal du' Cambodge ‘a;pu mener à bien une:  campagne d'expansion scolaire qui, en 15 ans, .a fait franchir à notre pays une étape con-  sidérable dans la voie du progrès intellectuel et de la prise de conscience de ses valeurs  nationales,
10. 9 - Soience,. cultire,. éducation, voilà des démaines extrémeniont vastes, mais combien  .vitaux pour: chaque pays, pour chaque peuple, Ce serait enfoncer une porte ouverte que de  ‘mettre un accent surles multiples bienfaits qué nous procurentles progrés dela science, de
596   Sesiones-plenartas /Maenaprwe-sacedanva . XXII  la culture et de l'éducation, - Il s'agit, bien entendu; de'la science orientée, non véré la desr  truction, mais vers le bien-être des peuples, Ils'agit, bien entendu, de la culture qui donne  priorité absolue à l'homme, à la protection de sa dignité et à la sauvegarde de ses patri-  moines. Il s'agit, bien entendu, de l'éducation tournée.vers la promotion de l'enfant, : de :  l'adolescent et de l'adulte, de telle sorte que rien ne vienne leur inculquer des 1dées fausses  sur l'homme en tant qu'être pensant et raisonnant, ; Co
10,10. En dépit des restrictions ‘générales imposées par, l'actuelle politique, d'austérité à du  Gouvernement, le Cambodge n'a pas lésiné sur les moyens financiers et intellectuels pour  faire faire un bond en ayant à l'enseignement, et le budget de l'éducation nationale n'a ces-  ‘sé de croftre en valeur absolue et en pourcentage du budget national, Les quelques chiffres  cités ci- -après sont éloquents à cet égard, ;
10,11 En 1968, nog ‘avons 5, 857 écoles primaires, contre. 2. 731 on 1955, Nous nè ‘dis-  poslons que. de 12 établissements ‘d'enseigriement secondaire en 1955, nous, ‘en comptons,
180 en, 1968,.. Quant à ‘l'enseignement supérieur, inexistant en 1955 : = soit un an après l'ac-  cession de notre pays à l'indépendance - nous avons maintenant A notre actif 9 universités,  avec 48 ‘ecultés et grandes écoles, Enfin, la population scolaire est passée de 317, 000  élèves en 1955 à 1, 161, 000 élèves et étudiants en 1968,
10. 12 C'est au niveau de’ l'etiséignement primaire que, ‘ mélgré une “pression démo raphique  croissante, la écoldrisation de la quasi- -tôtalité des enfants - garçons et fillés - a Ee réa-  lisée, En outre; un pourcentage’ exceptionnellement élevé des élèves de l'enséigneinent  primaire aborde les études secondaires, ‘Depuis 1959, les programmes ont été considé-  rablement modifiés, adaptés aux exigences nationales, afin de faire une large place aux  enseignements pratiques, dont l'un'dès principaux est l'enseigriement agricole, .
10.13 Le rythnie'de là scolarisation ‘au gtade’ pietinal fe étant 'déja normalise; “ied ils gros  efforts portent actuellemeñt sur le! développement de Vénseignement” secondaire - et supé-  rieur, ‘sans lequel le pays ne “pourrait rapidément disposer; en quantités” suffisantes, ‘de  cadres ‘natioriaux compétents, ‘conscients de leurs devoirs et de leurs’ obligations ‘ dans  l'oeuvre d'édifiéatton nationale qui doit être menée a bién efficacement et rapidément,
10,14 D'un autre côté, grâce ‘À nos institations religieuses, qui existent depuis des siècles,  qui existalént même ‘Avant l'instituttôn’ Byétématique dé l'enseignement’ primaire,” public: et  obligatoire,” ét ‘qui déadrent 1'éducation des jellies ‘dans des’ dizaines dé‘inilliers dé monas-  teres répartis sur tout le territoire du Royaume, l'analphabétisme ” a Jamais posé, un .  sont offerts’ ‘pour ‘enseigner aux area et pour organisèr lès. cours. “Sans ducing  contribution financière ‘de 1'Etat, l'alphabétisation intégrale de la population se trouve pré-  sentement presque réalisée,  ae + I . NPN
10, 15 ‘Pour arrivera èes résult ata; en particulier à cette écolaÿtéétién exlénatvt,: 11-hôde-  a fallu'résoudte le probleme dés -bâtirients et de l'équipément- écolaires - “ problème lôûrd>  d'incidences’ ‘financiéres; Grâce à un effort national considérable;'! celui ‘el esta’ 1'hetire-  actuelle sinoh'résolu > il'ne 1'ést jaiiais’ totalèmeñnt pour ducuht paye ‘du ‘onde = du’ moins”  dans un état satisfaisant 7 en ée domaine, nous'’avène ‘très largement dépâssé le’ sell"  d'équipement en-dega duquel le "décollage"' - pour trarisposèr ii "terme W'économiste - - n'est  pas possible, Lo.  Vois +.  ! [ANN
10, 16 C'est'à un ‘autre hivéad € que se‘sitrient nos ; ditches da que o pet’ iétvontr’ü the âtdé  de l'Orgarisation, qui viendra donner a nos efforts’ riationaux tous gés ‘prolbn; ements pro-’  ductifs : il s'agit de faciliter la formation de nos chercheurs ‘et dé nos ‘enseignants, ‘en
597   XXI | Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  mettant à-leur disposition tout le matériel technique et documentaire qui’ peut leur ‘être  nécessaire. No  i  +
10, 17.:Ce besoin se ‘manifesté déjà dans ‘les sciences soétales et humaines, où s'impolse-  raieñt la création du le ‘rénforcement ‘des structures ingtitutionnelles (centré de’ re-  cherches, centre de documentation, etc.) aliisi' que le rassemblement ét l'analyse des don-  nées socio- “économiques qui sont indispensables à l'élaboration et à l'exécution du plan  de déveléppement. .  +  tags
10,18 colfimé ‘dans bien dates iy, Titort fitianicier ‘national à a ‘porté, ‘dans’ ce ‘domaine,  beaucoup plus sur l'enseignement‘ que sur la’ rechérché, ‘ Celle- ci'- notamment’ sur là re-  cherche fondamentale, qui nécessite des moyens financiers importants et dont 1a’ rentabl-  lité ne paraît pas immédiate - est laissée aux pays qui possèdent déjà des organismes de  recherche importants, dotés d'équipes de chercheurs suffisamment nombreuses, Mais,  contrairement a ‘cé qui se ‘passe ‘ailléurs, la’ situation historique 'du’Cambodge a poussé  notre pays a s'intéréssef plus ‘particulièrement à cé genre d'activité, “qui ‘touche de près  notre patrimoine national,
10,19 Nos institutions universitaires sont à voisine dé la plupart des ‘initiatives’ de re-  cherches en sciences sociales et humaines, mais des études qui, relèvent de ce domaine  sont’ effectüéés’égaleirient aux Ministères du plan; dela santé, de l'agriculture, des cultes,  et un comité dont les activités intéressent particulièrement l'ethno- médecine et l'ethno-  botanique, a été récemment créé, ,
10. 20 Le bésoin’ est’ encore, plus. impérieux dans, le ‘domaine des, sciences exäctés, et ‘natu-  relles, qui exigent pour leur développement - même limité - la ‘disposition d'un matériel  particulièrement coûteux. Il est urgent d'accélérer l'action de toutes les techniques utili-  taires qui, dang le, Secteur agricole en particulier, tendent. à répondre directément aux.  soucis des pays nouveaux, La mise sur pied, dans tous ces domaines, . d'une recherche  fondamentale ¢ ou appliquée, la formation de chercheurs et de techniciens, dépassent les  possibilités d'un pays neuf, Nous ne. ‘pouvons, à cet égard, fournir qu'un potentiel intel-  lectuel auquel la coopération internationale peut donner son plein épanouissement.
10. 21 Aussi rious Féjoutssons- nous profondément de voir. la place taste. à, ces ; objectifs  dans le Preise de programme et de budget a aut est soumis ala Conférence, entree.  bir ale
35 Su yn  via cie  térêt momie et International, le jpg Frégors ne son royal Tao pie ‘leur  consacre. Tote sa sollicttide, Il est aidé dans cette’ entreprise’ par uno institution admi-  rable, ; à laquelle mon pays se plait à rendre publiquement hommage i l'Ecole française .  d'Extrêmes Orient, Celle- cl assure, dans le cadre de la conservation. d' Angkor, une oeuvre  remarquable de. ‘protection et de restauration. L'action de cette, institution offre véritable-  ment un, modèle des résultats auxquels peut atteindre une coopération bilatérale, dès lors  qu'elle est désintéressée et ‘exempte. de toute arrière- “pensée politique - ce qui devrait tou-  jours être le cag dans le domaine culturel, |, LOIR LL 1e 0 ‘
10.23 Mais les richesses monumentales du Cambodge ne se limitent pas à ce site célèbre,  où une eu écrasante reste d'ailleurs.à accomplir, Du fait de leur nombre, de leur dis- ,  pôrsion ‘ et de leur état de détérioration avancée, l'ampleur. du travail À réaliser apparaît  comme étant ‘largement au-dessus de nos moyens, . RI ‘ ,(
10,24 Nous nous empressons de dire que le Cambodge se réjouit de 1l'assistance que’  l'Unesço, dans le cadre de la.promotion du tourisme culturel, lui a apportée en lui envoyant,  au début de, cetie année, une équipe de trois consultants comprenant un archéologue, un éco-  nomiste et un architecte - celui-ci étant encore sur place = pour étudier un groupe de mo-  numents autre que celui d'Angkor, formuler des recommandations et: établir. un: projet de  restauration. Nous exprimons l'espoir que l'assistance qui nous a été accordée pour ce  projet précis puisse se poursuivre et se développer davantage dans les années à. venir, .  d'autant plus que,, lors, de la réunion des commissions nationales d'Asie pour. l'Unesco, .:  qui s'est tenue à Tokyo en septembre 1968, les délégués des Etats membres d'Asie ont  bien voulu reconnaître l'importance de notre patrimoine artistique et lui céder la priorité .  pour ce qui est ‘de l'aide que les organisations des Nations Unies, pourraient consentir,
10, 25 Au stade actuel des. travaux. de la Conférence générale, ‘alors que nous avons réélu  à son poste de directeur général M, René Maheu et que nous avons voté le plafond budgé- -  taire provisoire, la délégation cambodgienne approuve le Projet de programme de l'Unesco  pour l'exercice 1969-1970, tout en appuyant spécialenient les propositions tendant à contri-  buer, plus que par le passé, à l'effort que requièrent l'analyse des phénomènes de la jeu-:  nesse, la solution positive des divers problèmes qu'ils posent à la société dans son ensemble  et aux jeunes eux-mêmes et, plus généralement, la nécessité de réaliser une insertion -  plus active des jeunes dans la vie nationale et internationale,
10,26 Monsieur 1(Préstdent, Mesdames, Messieurs ‘les délégués, voilà lés quelques °.  obseryations que j' avais à présenter au nom de mon pays, Nous nous réjouissons de voir:  progresser sans cesse l'action de l'Organisation et se multiplier ses réalisations dans -  les domaines de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture, Mais on nous pardonnera de  teinter notre. enthousiasme d'une nuance d'angoisse, en rappelant. cet ordre de priorité  auquel nul ne peut rester insensible | : la paix d'abord et, à l'abri de la paix, - l'éducation .  et la culture. Luttons pour préserver la vie de ces jeunes dont l'épanouissement et le dé-  veloppement culturel sont notre souci, Que toutes nos actiyités soient dominées par la-vo-  lonté farouche, non seulement de sauvegarder la paix - là où elle existe, .non seulement -  d'écarter toute menaée ‘qui puisse la compromettre 1a où elle est menacée; mais encore .  de la redoriner à ceux qui ont le malheur de ne pas la_ connaître, C'est la vocation de  l'Unesco, c ‘est le voeu du Cambodge, qui ne peut qu'être partagé par l'ensemble de  l'humanité.
11. Le PRESIDENT, - | Lo  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Cambodge et je donne 1a parole as. Exec.  M, R. Babitchouk, ministre de la culture, chef de la délégation d de la République socialiste  soviétique d'Ukraine. oo ; .  “a  al 24e ur,
12.1 P. B. BABHHYYK (Ykpantoxaa Conetcxan Counannernyeckaa Peony6nuka):;  r- H Mpeaçeaaréfib, rraa AeferaTl, . Bucrynas B 06meñ AHCKYCCHH, Aenerauus .  Ykpannoxoï CCP, Haut, CBOD sagauy B TOM, YTOGH B ckaro#t qopme AaTh QLEHKY H TIOHHMA-  Hke TOTO nyTH, “xoropsif | Hama Oprauuaauus npomna sa BpeMA, HCTEKMee MNOCAe YeTHpHaa-  Hato ceccHH D'énepaisnon. xoH®epeHunH, BHCKA3ATBCA OTHOCHTE/ILHO NPOTpAMME Gy Ay meit  RCATENBHOCTH IDHECKO, H Tex ycnosuñ, KOTOpHEe, | no HameMy MHEHHD, HEOÔXOFHMB VIA  ycnemHoro npeTBOpeHHA B XH3HB 9TOÀ NPOrpaMMH. .
12,2 .C sTon. :TPH6ÿHe y Xe, OTMEVAHÇQL Te onpefe/leHHbie JOCTHXEHHA, KOTOPHE HMéeT |  Opranjéaiuns. YKpanHexan Aenerauus,; B,CBOD OUEPEAB, . OTMEUAET, . YTO sa NpomeauxH ne-  pHoa HECK, ynenana Hamiexamee BHHMuHHE OGPA3OSAHHD, eCTEGTBEHHHM | H.TOYHSIM ,.  HayKaM H HX NPHMEHEHHD, uTO enoco6cTBOBaNO RansHeñmeMy PasBUTHR o6pasonauna 2 pas-  BHBADIHXCA, cTpaHax Asun, A®puxu H JlaTHHCKOR AmepukH. Baonyxusaer, TaKKO MONOXH-,  TenbHoH OLEHKH NPOBEACHHO MOXAYHAPONHEX MePONPHATHA B OSJACTH, oxeaHorpaGun, THAPO- .  AOTHH, GHONOTHH, MPOBENEHHE CHMNO3HyMa, NOCBAMEHHOro 150-AeTHD CO AUX POXACHHA  Kapna Mapkca, coane Esponefickoit xonqepesumn MHHHCTPOB NO BONPOCAM BHCHEro o6paso-  BAHHA H Ap, i , Co eenne + pi. .
599   XXII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
12,3 Jleneraius YKparnoxoñ CCP cunTaeT, 4TO npeactannenns Ha’ pacemorpenxe Ipoekr  .NporpamMsI Ha 1969-1970 rr, B OCHOBHOM OTBEYAÉT saAâyaM, CTOSÈJHM nepea Oprantsauneñ  B MNpeACTOAILÈM AByXAETHH, - HaM- -npeAcrébnaerca NpAaBHIBHBIM," UTÔ NPH päspa6oTkë npo-  rpamMèl Ha npexorosumee nByxneTHe Cexperapuar I0OHECKO ÿnenua Hamlexaujee BHHMAHHE  BONPOGAM IVIAHHPOBAHHA 06paiosaHHs © YÿMETOM 9KOHOMHYECKHX H COLHA/BHEX norpe6Hocre  pasBHBal0IHX0A CTpaH, B O6HacTH ecTecTEeHHEX HayK OCHOBHOE BHHMAHHE ¢ocpeporounBaer-  CA Ha coAeHCTBHU MeXZiyHapoAHOMY COTPyAHHUECTBY B pasBHTHH HayKH H TexHHKH H MX mpH-  MEHEeHHH B' UÉNAX NOBLIWERHS GHarOCOCTOSHHA H 9KOHOMHYECKOFO Hporpecca,
12.4 KouKpeTHoe aaMeuanue fo Tpoekry nporpamMii Hamu’ ripe actaBhTe sm B KOMHCCHAX  BHCKa3aïiH H eile ébrokaxyT, UTo kacaeroa poéra' Goaxera IOHECKO, To MH He MOXEM’  COrNACHTECA C TeM, YTO MORBINIEHHE eTO YPOBHA HET B 3HAYHTE@ABHOÏ CTeneHH Ha afIMHHH-  CTPATHBHHIG H'ApyrHe Pacxofbl, He Bcerja CBASAHHHE C BbINOJIHeHHeM nporpaMmsl, Mo Hame-  My MHexHHb, l'eHeparbHsÂ AHPEKTOP AONXEH NPHHATE MEPH NO NOBLIMIEHHO 3) PEeKTHBHOCTH  pa6oTsI cymecTByDUeTo annapara,
12.6 Oro ocobeHHo Heobxoanmo, H60 MexayHaponHas OGETaHOBKA Ha COBpeMeHHOM STäne,  Kak 06 3TOM yXe rOBODH/IH MHOTHe Ae/leraTsI, MO-NpeXHeMy OCTaeTCA CJOXHOH H TPEBOXHOÏ,
12.7 TnapnsiM W Han6oñee ONÉCHBIM OMäFOM ‘Me xAyHapoäuoh Hanpaxehnocrx H ÿrposoñ' Bce-  obmeMmy MHPy sB/iAeTCA arpecéns ‘CI A' Bo BheTHaMe. Bo Bcex cTpanax, B TOM yHcse HB  CoégunénusIx I rérax AMepHKH, AésATerIH HaykKH, KyAbTYph H npocsemenhs, BCe, KOMy Xo-  por uaeans Mupa- H CMNPABEANHBOCTH, BHICTYMAIOT NPOTHB oTo BaprapcKoñ Boñnsl,
12,8 Bce Gonee HarHeTaoT HanpaxenHocTs Ha BnuxHeM BocToKe napaWlbekHe aKcTPpeMHCTEI,  Boenuwuna Hapauna, nonbaysñcb noanepXkoil HeKOTOPpsIX samadHeIXx gepxaB, BONpPEeKH pesonn-  UWH Cosera BesonacHOocTH OT 22 Hoabpa 1967 roaa cosepmaeT BCE HOBBE NpOBOKAIHH NPOTHB  apabckux cTpaH;.-  ; ‘  xaHHbe HauMoHanbHo- OCBOGOAUTE/BHEIM ÆABHXeHHeM, Tosopuaa KonoHHambHan cHCTeMa HOxH-  Baer CROH nocséane' BH. Onnaxo npouece nvikeuhaimu kosoHanisma éme He '3akoH4YeH, Met  He MOxéM'6HTb PABHOAYMHDB! K TOMY, UYTO AeCATKH MHANHOHOB ADAEÛ ace ‘eue: nonséprapron |  KONOHHANLHOMY | W pacopoMmy yrHeTeHHD, AHmeñbl SNEMEHTAPHEIX MenopeWeckWx npas, Hé  MMe T AOCTynà K'o6pasoraHHo H Hayke, né MotyT pasBHBaTB CBOD HAUHOHANBHY DO KYMBTYPY 4  He NONL3YI0TEA TeMH CBOÔOHAMH, KOTOPHE ABNANTCA HEOTBEMNEMEIM NPABOM KaXAOro Hapoga  H Kofopsé sa®HkcHposaHsi B YcTaBe Oprannsaïtyn O6rèannennsix Hauui HB YcTasé nameñ  OprannaauyuH,
12.10 B'nôénéätike roan; r- Ka, ocoboe GéctiokoñcorBo'muporo o6imecTBeHHôoTH BH3bIBAIOT  COGtITHA; ‘éBÂSAHHÈIe G éodpoxaehnem H aKTHBHS, ‘une ReSiTeNbHOCTH HatiHoToKHX H Heôta- |  NHGTCKMX ‘Oprainyaumn} i fpytà B'pane’ “Sana gui’ crpai, HailGonee onacHsiit ouar BO3POXKAEHHS  HédôHaunaMà'HaxoAure# B’ ®ésepartäbHoi Pecny6nukè T'epmaHnk, #neonoruyeckné H nonuthue-  cKHè HCTOKH koToporo BOCXOAAT K HauxoHas- counanamy, ‘cosepunbmemy- senvañuue npe-  CTynnéRns Mporus 'uenobevectsa, te |
12, Ab: M côpëreknx igo némeuixiit Mhnttapusi W'‘pepahmHam - ato ie abofpaxii, à à HCTOpHYECKas pearbHOCTb, C KOTOPOH HeAB3N MHPHTHCA,
12,12 Mupoxo H3BECTHO, ‘KAKOÏ ypoH NPHUHHHAO YKPAHHCKOMY HapoAy CTpeM/ieHHe rATAepoB-  CKHX HAaUYICTOB YCTAHOBHTH BAACTB "pach Tocnoa", SauxoTb Paspylwnan H COXIIM Ha Yxpanne
714 ropoäon; Gonee 27,000 ces, ocTaBuny 6e3-KpoBa okoyo 10 MHANHOHOB N0AEH, yHHYUTOXHMH  oxono 16,000 npomutmenHstx NPEANPHATHÉ, Ho caMoñ Taxenof norepeit 61/10 TO, 4TO OT pyK  damuoTcKHX H3Bepror Ha Yxpanke norubno 4,5 mH, Yenosex H Gontee 2 Man, AwAei 651,10 Ha-  CH/bHO BHBe3eHO Ha amncTcKylo kaTopry. Bes NpeyBe/rHYeHHA MOXHO cka3aTh, TO Ha’  Ykpanne HeT ceMbH, KOTOpoñ GH BOÏHa He npHHec/a HEMONpaBHMOro rops, Cyponas HCTOPHA  Hay<4Hla Hac 6bITB GAUTOABHBIMH,
12,13 MockKonbky IOHECKO He cyllecTByeT MSONUPOBAHHO, Hawa Oprannaauus He MOXeT  CTOATH B ‘éTopoe ‘of pemennd saXHeHmux Tipo6sem conpeMeHHocTH, a‘ AonxHa BHOCHTE Bééo-  MBIA BKñdA B Aèno yKpefinenus ‘MHpa, MexAyHapogHoro éOTpyaHuecTBa u Gesonaenpes “1 Hapo-  AOB C NOMOUBH o6pasonähia, Hay Ku H KyAbTypsl, BHCTY NATE npoTus KosonuaALHOM 1 pacoBoit  AHOKPHMHHaAlHH, NPOTHE HeoHaUW3Ma H pesaHmH3Ma, Mut nosaraeM, UTO IOHECKO® cnéjyer  Gonee S®PeKTHBHO HCHONLGOBATL CBOM H3AAHHA ANA pasTACHEHHA NPHHUHNOB MiipHoro cocy-  IeCTBOBAHHA H MexAYHAPOAHOTO COTPYAHHYECTBA, NONYANPHIAUHH IOpHAHYECKHX, COUHAJBHÔ-
9KOHOMHYECKHX H KYJIBTYPHEIX ACNEKTOB PA3OPpyXeHHA H Jlorosopa 0 HepacnpoctpaHeHHH #nep-  HOFO OpyXHA, HeAaBHO NOANHCAHHOTO 80 TOCYAAPCTBAMH. Huaye IOHECKO ne émoxeT shpexr-  THBHO B5INOJHATb CBOD MNPOrpaMMy H Ty BHCOKYD MHCCHD, KOTOpas BO3JIOXeHa Ha Hee Hapo-  RaMH,
12,14 T'-pna Aenerarthl, Mb CTPEMHMCA K TOMY, 4T06H apTopHreT Hamefi Opratnsaunn Henpe-  p»IBHO BO3pacgTan, YUTOGBL OHa NO/b3OBANACh yBaxeHHeM H AOBEPHEM y BCeX 6e3 HEKMIQUEHHA |  CTPaH H Hapoñor, Kak yunBepcanbHan oprauusayus, B sroñ cBA3K He/b34 He 06paTHTE caMoro  Cepbe3HOro BHHMaHHA Ha TOT GaKT,, MTO B, Haueñ Oprannaautu, He npeacrarsehb l'epmançraa  NemoxpaTHieckaa Pecny6nuka, Nemoxparhueckan Pecnybnuka BrerHaM, Kopefickas Haponto-  NeMoxpathyeckas Pecny6nuka. MecTo Kuras n IHECKO He3aKOHHO 3aHHMaeT HHKOrO He  NpéacTap/1A0uas KAHKa xaHKañmHCTOB, Hapymenxe NPHHLUHNA YHHBEpcarbHOCTH He MOXeT He  cKka3aThcs OTPHIATE/BHO Ha NPAKTHYeCKOÏ pa6ore WHECKO, DS
12,15 l'-na generarei, B npomaoM roay Cosercxhñ Cons OTMETHA SHAM@HAT@ABHYO, AaTY B  HCTOPpHH YesloBeuecTRAa - 50-seTHe Bennkoñ OKTA6pbCKOÏ COLUHA/JNHCTHYECKOH peBOJNIOUHH, OTa  AaTa cTa/a NOBOPpOTHBM MYHKTOM H B XH3HH yKpaHHCKOro Hapoña. Ee nofeaHoe mecTBHe npH-  Beno x oôpasopaHxn 25 nexabp; 1917 roaa YkpanickoW CopeTckoñ CouxanucThyeckoñ Pec- .  nyGaukH, pabHoñ cpean Panu Pecny6nuk Cosetrckoro Coisa.  es OE we
12, 16 Monysexosoñ ays ykpaHHcKoro napoña - ro MyTb reponyeckKux chepuennf, Bè/HKHX  HCIbITAHHH, 9TO PHDAHTCKAF cO3HAaTe/pHas PaÔOTA BO BCEX 06/1acTAX COLHANBHOÏ,. SKOHOMH-  ‘Yeckoï H KyABTypHoÏH xHaHH, Ceñtdac CoBeTckas YxpauHa - oro Pecny61nka MOuHOH HHAYCT-  pHH, pasBHTOro Ce/IbOKOTO XO3HHiCTBA, BLICOKOTO YPOBHA OGpA3OHAaHHA, HAYKH H KY/AbTypHi,  Ha TeppHTOpHH KOTOpoñ npoxHBaer Gonee 46 Man, uvenonek. B Pecny6auke HacYHTbIBA@TOA  oxoso 100.000 HayyHBIX PaGOTHHKOB, cpeau KOTOPHIX- Gonee 24,000 HMeDDT yueHbre creneHx H  SBAHHA, Pas4HYHBIMH bopmamH o6y“enna oxsayeHo 14 MAH, Y4énoBek, T,e. kaxAbH TpeTHH  rpaxaaHuH YKpanHoKoi Conerckoï ‘Couvanneruueckoñ Pecny6nuxu yyuxros B Hapognom xo-
3HHcTBe paGoraer 2,5 mau, creuxanxoToD.
12.17 Bcé señnvañnme npeo6pasoBaHa, npoxcmeAmHe B Hameñ cTpaHe sa 50 neT, Hepas-  pHIBHO CBA3aHL C HMÈHEM B, H. Jennua, cronetne KOTOpOro B 1970 rony 6yner oTMeuaTh  YenoBeYeCTEO,  ; ix
12,18 Yxpanncxan CCP okaasipaer axaäurenshyD TOMOMB' Moros pacsupapmHMCS. rôcy-  AapcTeaM B paspHTHH, o6pasosaHna, H HayKH, B MOAFOTOBKE, Kaxpos. 3a nocnegune 7 net B  BHOMHX H èpedHux crieihanbäsx ÿweonux saBeneHHAx, B HayuHo- HecneiopaTensckux Yricru-  TyTax Pecny6nukH TOAYYHAH 06pasopanne WAX MOBBCHIH KBa/MPUKALUD oKkono io. 000. TpaxmaH  pasBHBADMHXC#A CTpaH; IlonysHB 06pasosauxe, MOJIOAbl® CHEUHANHOTE. BOSBPATADTCH Ha: :po-  AHHY H fVIONOTBOPHO TPYAATCA Ha GJIATO CROHX HAPOKOB. a oe :
601   XXII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
17,19: Mut panbl, TOONOAA; MOMCAUTLCA.CBOHMH AOCTHXEHHAMH, CBOHM OMBITOM C APyÉHMH  CTPAHAMH H HapoRaMH, MEI I'OTOBH H BMPpeAb Pa3BHBATH MOXAYHAPOAHBIE HAYYHBIE H KY/ABTYP-  HBE CBA3H, H6O CYHTAEM HX BaXHHM CPOACTBOM B3auMooforauleHHA HAUHOHA/NBHEX KY/BTYP,  BKAAAOM B Ae/l0 nysmero B3AHMONOHHMAHHA HAPOXOB; B A6/0 > ykpenmeHna MHpas  GE i} a
12 20. r- na ReñeraTH,: .T'onopa 0 CceroaHAmHeM AHe, He/Nb3A He OCTAHOBHTBCA Ha sonpocax  XH3HH H AeATeNLHOCTH MOJIOAEe XH, KOTOpaf HrpaeT BaxHyl) porb B COBpeMeHHOM o6ujecrBe H  KOTOpoñ npuHannexHT GyAyulee, Jlener aril MHOFHX CTPaH B CBOHX BHOTYANACHHAX Goabuioe  BHHMaHHe YAC/ANH npo6GieMaM MO/OAe XH, BbCKA3bBA/H 6eCllOKOACTBO H TPEBOTY O ee cyabbe,
12, 21’ ‘Mu He, CKAOHHE ‘pacoMarpupath ary npoGnemy;. HOXOAR Ha Gnonoruyeckux, HAR uanono-  THYECKHX, HHaye TOBOPA, BO3IPACTHLIX ‘oco6ennocTeñ, .KaK arto. noguepkHBanu HeKOTOpHe Ae- -  fleraTsl, Mn, HCXOAHM Npexae BCEro H3 couñanbHoro : ‘acnekra. Counansnas ‘cpexa, o6uecTBeNHO-  NOAHTHYECKHHÉ CTPOH,.YC/HOBHA XH3HH, FOCNOACTBYIOIAH HAEONOrHA - BOT YTO ONpeñeANeT  B3AHMOOTHOMEHHA Me XAY ulieHaMH OÔLIECTBA H OGRACHRET MNOBEAEHHE MONONEXH, ee POL B  XHIHH Hapoña.
12, 22 To Hamemy ‘Menno, IOHECKO _RonxHa ripexne BCOTO HCCAO AOBATb counansnsÿ acnexT  TONOXEHHA MONONEXH B CTpaHax « c pasTHYHBIM, COUNANLHO-SKOHOMHYECKHM CTpoeM, BCEMepHO  pacñpocTpaHars cpeax MO/IOZeXH conpeMeHHble HayuHble H KYIBTYpHBIe SHAHHH, HAeH ryMa-  HH3Ma, MHpa, Apyx6s! MexAy HapoAaMH, BbICTYFATb NPOTHB Kÿ/IBTHBHPYEMOTO B HeKOTOPBX  CTpaHax HacHJH4, nponaraHas une pacusMa H HEOHAUH3MA,
12.23 Uro Kacaercs Yxpanteroit CCP, TO b Hameñ Pecriy6iuke, KakH BO BCEX pectiy6nukax  Cosërékoro Céwaa, B KOTOphX hpoxisaer Gônee 120 HaïlhohansHocrel ñ HapozHocTeñ, scéñ  MOAOAEXH' raparuposäto: paskoë' npaso rOBOpHTH’ Ha poanom H3bIKe, Honydate obpasopaiire  (Bkniouas H Bblomeé) Ha A3biKe, KoTopHä BbIOHPANOT cami’ poaureñn, HMeTE npaBo Ha TPYA,  OTABIX H Ky ABTY PHBA nocyr, H THe THbI ROA TKK ôgnoro H3 BbCTyNabmero opaTopa "YM8NHTb
3TH Be/lhyañmhè saBdeBaHHA Hapozos Corérékoro Conaa, ‘BH AYMBIBAS HecylleCcTBY WH BO-  npoc 0 AHCKPHMHHALUHUH OTHebHHIX HAPOHOB B COBETCKOM Cownae.
12:24 CoBeTckass Monolexb HenocpeACTBEHHO yYacTByeT H B yMpAB/JeHHH FOCYAAPCTBOM, H  B'pemenHH npobneMm pasBHTHA 9KOHOMHKH, Haykk H KyABTYPH,
12,25 ‘ * Hexoï#'U3 nonoxeñnä,  paspa6otaniiiix eige BnaakmhpôM, Hnsnuëm’ ‘MexHntiblm B obnacTH  BOCMHTAHHA 0OHOmMECTBA, Hama’ Monogexi HOGNHTL EASTER B AyXxe Mipa, cnpasgAlinsocTh;’ BbI-  cokoñ HpaBCTBEHHOCTH, APyYX651 H ryMaHH3Ma. Ha sTHX HAeAX BOCNHTHBAIOTCA MHOTHE MOKO-  JIeHHA COBETCKHX /IvAeR B mKone, B Brhicwux y4eGHLIX BaBefeHuax, B npodpcoosax H B'JeHHH-  CKOM- KoMMyHHCTHUBCKOM CONM3E MONOAe XH; 50-/eTHe KoTOporo G6yAeT MHPOKO H TOpXecT-  BeHHO OTM@YATRCA B CopeTckom Conse 29 okra6pa cr.’  Ts ' .. N ' 4 : eo. !  c Oprariniatinah, Mu HagééMcs, uro Hama Opranrsanni évier ir BCE dspacrabouly D  ponb B pemeHxHH ocTpeininX npobaem, cToauux' nepea YenoBeuecTBOM. Biäroaapp sa bHHMa-  HHe.  ,.
(12.1) Mr, BABICHUK (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Re ublio) (Translation from the Russian}: ;  Mr. President and. tellow delegates:. In, speaking In f the general debate on behalf of the delega-  tion of the Ukrainian SSR, I feel I should give à brief appraisal of the progress made by the Organi-  zation since the fourteenth session of the General Conference and express our views on Unesco's  future programme of activities and on the conditions which, in our opinion, must be met if this  - programme is.to be successfully carried out. |, ‘ 2001 ;
(12. 2) From “this } plattori’ due Hckiôhkleägemient has already’ been’ made’ to the “définité schieye. | i  © ments of the Organization! The Ukriiniah'délégation, for Hé part, W jould'obsérve that dulling  * ‘past biennium Unéséo his pald due atténtion to’ education to the ñätural solendes and'(o hate he  “tical application; and has thus assisted the further growth of eduction in thé developing countries  - of Asia, Africa and Latin America. International work in oceanography, hydrology and biology, :::.
602   Sesiones plenarias /lAenapuue sacedankA XXII  the symposium held to commemorate the 160th anniversary of the birth of Karl Marx, and the con-  vening of the European Conference of Ministers on higher education, to mention only these, also  deserve favourable mention. ,  in : i 20354 Ru! e “ LAN LINES ST LA
(2. 3) The delegation of the Ukrainian. SSR. considers that the Draft Progratime tor 1969- 1970,  which is under consideration, basically conforms to the {asks faëing the Organizatiôn'in the coming  biennium, We belleve that, in preparing thé programme for the coming biennium, the Secretariat  of Unesco hag.pald proper attention to the question of educational planning in relation to the econo-  mic and social needs of the developing countries. In the natural gclences, the main emphasis is on  promoting international co-operation for the development of science and technology and their appli-  ation with a view to increasing prosperity and furthering economic development.
(1254). Specific comments on the Draft Programme. have been made and have still to be made by  our representatives in the commissions. As regards the Increase in Unesco's budget, we cannot  agree with the fact that a considerable part of the increase is to cover administrative and other  . expenditure no} always connected with the execution of the programme. In our opinion, the  Director-General should take action to increase the efficiency of the exteting maçhinery.
(12.5) Fellow delegates, it would be hypocrisy on our part to say that we were fully satisfied with  the practical results of Unesco's work. The first thing we would note is that the Organization  frequently: adopts important decisions on vital contemporary issues.’ What we fail to understand,  . however, is the excessive timidity of the Secretariat of Unesco in putting them into effect, especlal-  ly resolution 10 adopted at the fourteenth session of the General Conference relating to " Unesgco' s  contribution to peace" . The Draft Programme contains no plan for concrete action by the pro-  gramme departments and the information and other services of the Secretarlat to strengthen  Unesco's contribution to peace for the next biennium.
(12,6) Such action is particularly necessary, since the present international situation remains  complex and unsettled, as many delegates have pointed out.
(12. 7) The chief and most dangerous source of international tension and a threat to world peace is  - the U,S.A,'s aggression In Viet-Nam. In countries all over the world,-including the United States  of America, leading figures in the world of sclence, culture and education, and all those to whom  the’ ldeals of peace and Justice are dear, have come out against this barbaric war.
(12. 8) The Israelt extremists are creating mounting ‘tension in the Near East: The military.  clique in Israel, supported by certain western countries, is continually carrying out new acts of  provocation against the Arab countries despite the Security Council's resolution of 22 November
1967. . ME ' ; .  toe , ati 561200 TT wc. - CL
(12,9) -Mr. President; the resounding victories. achieved by Rational liberation movements are  unlversally known. “The shameful system of colonialism 1s'iñ its last throes. Howevér, the.pro-  cess of eradicating colonfalism:is not. yet over. We cannot be indifferent to the fact that tens of  millions of people are still subjectéd to colonial and racial oppression, are deprived of their ele-  mentary human rights, have no access to education and sclence, cannot develop their national cul-  ture and do not enjoy. those liberties which are the inalienable right of every nation and which are  ‘enshrined in the United Nations Charter and in the Constitution of our Organization. :  mp gs di Aaa RI [AIREY 2,6  ua. 10). Fellow daleghies inl recent years. ‘world spinton his been paëtieutaciy disturbed by events  connected with thé revival of Nazi and neo-Nazi organizations and groups in a number of western  gountries. . The, most flangeraue. centre of neo-Nazi reviyalism is the Federal Republic of. - -.  Germany. Its tdeologi cal and political sources, ‘can be traced back to national socialism, which  was responsible for t ; greatest crimes ever perpetrated. against humanity.  quai For ths people of the ‘Soviet Union, German millitariem and revanchlsm are not an abstrac-  tion but a historic reality, with which there can be no reconciliation, .
12.1 3), The aûtforhidé 5 ; te Uicrainien people ai the. ‘hands 9 of ‘Hitler and i ail Vids a {hetr  attempt to eatab ay La fe of the "master. race" ,are ‘well- ee In the Ukraine, “the! Fésolsts  ravaged and bur Ve to wns, and cities andr more than ; 27,000 xilages 8 made 2pproxlistely
10,000, 000 ie oad and ‘destroyed'approximately 16:000 {nduétrial concerns. But the  most enieye loss was that, fo and a. halt alle fat ex the Rang h who, A dome at. {ie  ITH       PER td NN Qué ae de 67 nt, ¥ PN £ ali Fin Sida Ma SF DY  ar rein 3 one fam us to be which in RE
603   XXII Pleñary meetings / Séances plénières
(12.13) Inasmuch as Unesco is not something existing in isolation; it cannot remain indifferent to  the most important problems of our time and must makè à significant contribution to the. strengthen-  ing of peace, International co-operation and security through education, sclence and culture; it  must combat colonlal and raclal discrimination, neo-Nazism and the spirit of, revenge. We feel  . that Unesco should make more effective use of its’ publications’ iri order to expsünd the prinéiples  of peaceful covexisténce and international co-operation; to give wide’ publicity to the legal, social,  economic’and cultural Aspects of disarmament and of the convention on the Hon<digsemination of  nuclear weapons, recently signed dy 80 States. Otherwise Unesco will not be able to carry out  effectively either its programme or the great mission with Which the ‘nations have entrusted it.
(12, 14) Fellow délégâtés, ‘our afm’is that the’ suthaelty of our ‘Organitätion should: row isin  strength to strength and that, as a universal organization, it should be respected and trusted by  all countries'and peoples without éxéeption, For this'réason,'wé cannot but bé sertéisiy‘con-  cerned by the fact that the German’ ‘Democratic Republic, thé Démocratié Republic of Viet-Nam  and the Democratié People's Republic of Korea aré not’ represented in our Organization. The  seat of China in Unesco is Megally occupied by the Chiang-Kai-shek clique, who’ do not represent  anyone. This infringement! of the principle of universality ls bound to have adverse repercussions  on Unesco's activities. .
(12.16) - Fellow delegates, last year the Soviet Unto commemorated a'significant date in the his-  tory of mankind - the 50th annivérsary of the Great October Socialist Revolution: This date was  also a turning-point in the life of the Ukrainian people, The victorious advance of revolution led  to the creation on 25, December 1917 6f the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic - one of the Repub-  les of the Soviet Union and an 1 equal among equals.
(12, 16) This half-century in the life of the Ukrainiän people Has seen’ a‘story of heroic achtève-  ments, of great ordeals and of tremendous work in every sphere of social, economic and cultural  life. Now, thé Soviet Ukrainé has a powerful industrial structure, ‘an up-to-date systern’ of agrl-  culture, a high standard of education; science and ‘culture and a population’ of over 46,000, 000  people. The Republic has approximately ‘100, 000 scientific workers, of whom more than 24, 000  have academic degrees and titles. There are 14,000,000 people receiving various forms of in-  struction = i.e., one citizen in three in the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic is studying. There  are two and a half million specialists working in the national economy.
(12.17) An the tremendous transformations that have taken place in our country during the past
50 years are indissolubly linked with the name of V. I. Lenin, whose centenary will be universally  celebrated in 1970.
(12. 18) The Ukrainian SSR gives considerable assistance to the new developing nations in the  fields of education and science and in the training of qualified personnel. In the last seven years,  approximately 10,000 ‘éltizens of the developing countries have undergone training or have im-  proved their qualifications in higher and intermedlate specialized educational institutions and in  scientific and research Institutes in the Republic, After receiving their training, the young spe-  clalists return to their native countries to do useful work for the good of their peoples.
(2: 19) We are glad, fellow delegates, to be able to share our ächievements and oùr ‘experience  with other countries arid peoples, and we intend to continue to develop our international scientific  and cultural relations, since we regard them as an important means of mutual enrichment and as  a means of contributing to better understanding among nations and to the strengthening of peace.  i
(2; 20) Fellow detegätés, “at the present day it 18 {mpôsôtble nôt to (leh ‘on questions affecting  the life and ‘activities of the young, who play an important part in ‘contemporary soctèty ‘and to  whom the future belongs.’ The delegates ôf many countries have’ placed ‘¢onsiderable emphasis in  their speeches on the problems of youth and expressed their anxiety and concern about its fate.
(12.21) We are not incliñèd to viéw this problem’ from the biological oF physiological angle, or,  to put it another way, to regard | it as’a problem of age; as some delegates did, We would rather  emphasize thé soëlal aspect, The social environment, ‘thé so¢lal and political system, living con-  ditions and the prévaliing ideology are, the things that détermine the relations bétween members of  soclety ‘and explain the ‘behaviour of youth and the’ part'it Plays in a Mation!s fe.  :  ‘(laÿ22) In’ our opinidn, Uhéëco should investigate’ chiefly the soèlal” aspects ‘ot ds donittôn ot young  people’ in countries with different social and ecohomié systems, disseminate in évéry possible way  among’ oung people "modern ‘scientific and cultural knowlédge, thé’ {deals of humanism, peace and  friends ip among pcoplés,‘ and oppose the cult of viélence practised in some countries and raclalist  and neo-Nazi propaganda.
604   Sesiones plenarius /Mlsenaputie 3acédauus XXII
(12.23)»-As far as the Ukrainian SSR is concerned, in dur Républic, as in ail the Republics of the  Soviet Union, which numbers over 120 nationalities and peoples, all young people are guaranteed  the right to speak their native tongue, :to receive education (including higher education in the lan-  guage chosen by the parents) and the right to work, rest and leisure. - One of the speakers here  made a futile attempt to belittle these tremendous achievements of the peoples of the Soviet Union,  raking up some fictitious question of discrimination directed against individual peoples of the  Soviet Union.
(12,24) Soviet young people participate directly in the management of the affairs of the State and  in solving problems relating to the development of the economy, of science and of culture,
(12,25) On the’ basis ‘of the ‘principles elaborated by Vladimir Llyich Lenin him golf relating to ‘the  education of the" young, qui young people are brought up in a spirit of peace, “justice, high moral  rectitude, friendship and humanism, Many generations of ‘Soviét peoplé are being brought up on  these ideas In schools in higher institutions of learning, in trade unions and in the Leninist Young  Communist League, the 50th anniversary of which will be widely and solemnly celebrated in the  Soviet Union on 29 October of this year.
(12,26) Féllow delegates, highly esteeming the aims and tasks which Unesco was set up to athteve,  the Ukrainian SSR is making great efforts to co-operate fruitfully with the Organization. We hope  that our Organization will play an increasing part in solving the critical problems facing mankind.  Thank you for your kind attention.
13, Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la République socialiste soviétique d'Ukraine  et je donne la parole à S, Exc. M, Aboubakar, au nom de la délégation du Niger.
14,1 M. ABOUBAKAR (Niger). - ;  Monsieur le Président, ma délégation voudrait tout d'abord s'associer aux éminents ora-  teurs qui m'ont précédé à ‘éetté tribune et vous adresser ses chaleureuses félicitations à  l'occasion de votre élection à la présidence de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco.
14.2 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, nous avons ; été invités  à essayer de dégager des perspectives claires et précises pour les programmes futurs de  notre Organisation, À la lumière des enseignements qu'on peut tirer des réunions régio-  nales qui se sont tenues pendant la période biennale écoulée et des événements qui, cette  année, ont secoué diverses parties du monde, je voudrais’ vous livrer quelques réflexions  sur trois points du Projet de programme et de budget pour 1969-1970,
14.3 La décennie qui va se terminer bientôt apparaît plutôt comme celle de l'organisation,  de l'aménagement, de l'ajustement, En effet, nous pouvons tous, Mesdames, Messieurs,  faire les constatations suivantes : - ’  !
14, 4 Premièrement, on s'est attaché à organiser la coopération entré les organisations  du système des Nations Unies et les divers pays, en particulier ceux qui venaient d'accéder,  en grand nombre, à l'indépendance nationale, À ce sujet, il convient de noter que le sys-  tème des Nations Unies accroft sans cesse son assistance aux pays qui n'y ont encore pas  accédé,
14,5 Deuxfèmement, ‘il &'fallu que le’ système des Nations Unies’ lui-même sé restructure  pour faire face à l'intensification de cette coopération, Aussi avons-nous assisté à la hais-  sance et à la prolifération d'institutions nouvelles, au point que de sérieux problèmes de  céordination commencent à se ‘poser,
14.6- Troisièmement, ‘les domaines de la coopération se sont précisés : ren matière d'édu-  cation, orn est parvenu; sur de nombreux points, à une harmonie entre les besoins des:di-  vers Etats et les conditions et critères dé l'assistance internationale, bien qu'il reste beau-  coup à faire, rictamment pour la formation au nivéau mèyeh. Par contre, dans un domaine  aussi important que-la formation scientifique et technologique, et malgré un plan mondial  visant'à assurer l'application de la solence et de la technologie au développement, l'assis-  tance internationale a pris un retard considérable sur les besoins des Etats membres,  quand elle ne les ignore pas.
605   XXII + Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
14,7, Il n'est pas nécessaire de g'attarder sur l'insüffisance des ressources-mises a la dis-  position de cette coopération, .nl’gur. l'écart qui existe entre les moyens ou -méthodes ‘actuels  et les objèctifs, fixés dans les divers’ progr animes, ‘Je’ suis tonvainéu' que le principe d'éva-  luation permettré dé ‘traduire’ de plus” en lus facilement ¢ ces objéctifs” sous forme de: pro-  grammes ‘éppropriés,, D'éiiédrs Je’ nouveau, ‘système, dé Programmation offre cerfaihement,  pour ‘I'action ‘ des ‘organisations du système ‘des’ Nations ‘Unies, ‘de grandes possibilités, En  effet, il est clair qu'il faudra choisir les priorités et les projets en fonction de leur renta-  bilité, D'autre part, on devra consacrer plus de temps à la réflexion sur la mise en oeuvre  des programmes; ‘Enfin, la perspective plus lointaine diminue les risques d'actions occa-  sionnelles et d'interventions hâtives, dans le domaine de l'assistance technique internatio-  nale, dont je souhaite vivement qu elle né’ “perde rien d'une’ suiiplesse qui est déja insuffi-  sante, La programmation à long terme doit servir les plans nationaux de développement si .  elle veut'être efficace au cours de la prochaine décennie.
14,8 Cependant, il y a lieu de conserver un ferme espoir, ‘car les ‘résolutions adoptées  par la Conférence générale à sa quatorzième session (résolutions 9,1 et 9.2) ont commencé  à porter leurs fruits,
14,9 L'assistance internationale reconnaît - quoique timidement - l'opportunité d'appuyer  les écoles normales rurales ainsi que les projets tendant à former des professeurs d'ini-  tiation à la technologie.
14,10 De même, en ce qui concerne la coordination entre les institutions du système des  Nations Unies, l'Unesco, la FAO et l'OIT sont parvenues À un accord eh matière d'ensei-  gnement et de formation dans le domaine des'sciences agritoles, Cés indices encoura-  geants me permettent de penser que la Deuxième Décennie des Nations Unies.pour:le déve-  loppement se placera résolument dans lai perspective de la mise en valeur des ressources  humaines si les deux conditions suivantes sont réalisées : accroissement des ressources  affectées’ à la coopération Internationale, adaptation de cette coôpération aux besoins des  Etats membres,  la qualité du contenu de 1'éducation et sur la politique scientifique,
14.12 Au cours de la Première Décennie, -l'assistance internationale s'est attachée; d'une  manière très naturelle d'ailleurs, à faire proliférer les projets ; les Etats membres, en  particulier ceux d'Afrique, ont procédé’ à une scolarisation massive et, dans: l'ensemble,  malgré les efforts déployés de ‘part et d'autre, l'éducation n'a que très faiblement contri-  bué au développemenit économique et social,  ML ,( : Th
14,13. Il est dono indispensable que les spécialistes et les Etats membres cherchent’ à  assurer-une liaison toujours plus étroite entre la planification, générale et la planification  de l'équcation. Quant à d'Ünesco,. ‘elle. doit 8 ‘attacher à ptteindre : les frois objectifs sui-  vants : : d'abord. ia, réforme des, programmes, compte tenu en articulier des ‘recommanda-  tions pertinentes de la ‘Conférence internationale sur la plani ication de. l'éducation tenue  à Paris en août 1968 ; deuxièmement, Vorientation du contenu de l'éducation y vers la solu-  tion des problèmes posés: par le développement économique (les pays,en.voie de développe-  ment ont besoin à la fois de cadres pour moderniser le monde rural et d'un: grand nombre  de scientifiques et de techniciens pour rattraper les pays Andustrialisés)- ; tréisièmement,  la formation de cadres moyens, : qu'on a tendance à négliger parce qu'on oublie la diffé:  rence.entre les niveaux respectifs de développement atteints. :par, les Etats membres, Je  considère:.pour-ma.part;que:les diverses. suggestions faites dans le document 15: -C/53,  relatif, à l'Année internationale de-l'éducation, constituent une base très. réaliste en la  matière, .
14, 14 Les documents préparés a l'intention de la Conférence de Nairobi sur l'éducation et  la formation technique et scientifique dans leurs rapports avec le développement en Afrique  font ressortir que le pourcentage d'étudiants africains inscrits dans les disciplines scien-  tifiques constitue une faible proportion de l'effectif total de ces étudiants et que les dis-  ciplines scientifiques fondamentales pour le développement de l'Afrique (par exemple  l'agriculture) ne sont pas les plus recherchées,
14.15 C'est pourquoi l'Unesco pourrait contribuer a l'élaboration; par les Etats membres,  d'une politique sci-ntifique prévoyant, non seulement l'étude et la solution des problèmes  posés par l'organisation et l'orientation de la recherche scientifique et technique, mais’  également la-formation des cadres nécessaires, tant pour le dévelcppement que pour cette  recherche. ; i
14,16 Bien que les politiquis et les pratiques soient très différentes en la-matière, la  mise en place d'institutions appropriées constitue une des conditions nécessaires à l'im- -  plantation de la science et de la technologie, Elle offre également un cadre propice pour  la coopération internationale et permet de mener des activités soutenues afin de parvénir  à l'acculturation scientifique, Cependant, au cours de la prochaine Décennie, l'Unesco  devrait également promouvoir, grâce à l'action opérationnelle, la formation'scientifique  et technique pour répondre aux besoins très variés des pays en voie de développement.
14.17 En ce- qui concerne la jeunesse, il ne serait | pas juste de nier l'action de notre Orgä-  nisation, Les efforts constahts dans le domaine de l'éducation, la création de clubs Unesco,  les programmes de voyages à l'intention des responsables des mouvements de jeunesse, la  Conférence internationale sur la jeunesse, tenue à Grenoble en-1964, constituent des me-  sures pour lesquelles nous devons louer le Secrétariat.
14, 18 ui a fallu” 1a, vague de contestations, violentes que l'on salt pour que. les Etats membres  acceptent ‘enfin de reconnaître. l'existenée de ce que le Directeur général a si bien appelé la  "crise de la jeunesse". Mais il y à une forme latente de, .contestation a laquelle on ne préte  pas suffisamment attention et qui ressemble à une indifférence de la part des jeunes à  l'égard de la société, C'est là que se pose le problème des responsabilités des Etats  membres et de l'Unesco vis- “vis de la jeunesse, , oo
14. 19" Le Niger, je lé rappelle” à ce propos, ‘a ‘été ‘ehoisi'p pour ia ‘mise’ én ‘geuvré ‘du pro-  grammé expérimental concernant la éhéation’ cet le! “dévèle ppément de- réseaux nat lonaux  s'oécupant ‘de l'éducation! extrabcolaire, des ‘jeunes. ‘A mon avis,’ si ‘les jeunes en sont, Arr  vés! ‘iéi ef 1a, a'ce‘qu'on’ appelle’ ‘également, intolérance, ‘ffcompréhension; élesty parce, qué  les adultes se ‘soit Bubstitués ‘à eux pour ‘babes leurs problèmes et les’ ‘rééoudre à leür .  plaéé, chäque‘Etat ayant d'ailleürs, en la’ matière, Ses. ‘solutions ‘originales, ‘alors ‘que le  mouvement des jeunes est à la dimension du monde: “Où péut né pas être d'accord sur les’  significations de la contestation, mais je suis sûr que celle-ci exprime fondamentalement  la volonté des jeunes de participer à la solution dé'leurs prôpres problèmes, à la vie pu-  blique et à la vie internationale - en un ‘mot a la vie sociale moderne,
14,20 Què pouvons- nous fairé én faveur des taéaux* de justice’ et de pal, août s'umépirat  les jéunes ? - ‘Je crois tout d'âbord qu'il faut éviter d'élabérér un’ programme’ qui tendrait  soit à détourner les jeunes dés problèmés sociaux réels,” soit a’ prévenir les’ mouvenents’ :  de contestation en vue' d'assurer aux aduites ‘üné ‘certaine ‘quiétudé, solt A'isoier une couche  quelconque de l'ensemble de la jeunesse, Tout al ¢ontrairs; les Etats membres et l'Unescô  doivent encourager les jeunes à poser leurs problèmes et les aider à les résoudre, pour  qu'ils puissent apporter À nos sociétés leur ardeur et leur énergie.  te ’ ragga I ce Lt on
14,21 Les propositions présentées par le Secrétartat de l'Unesco dans son remarquable  rapport sur la jeune: 3e (document 15 C/65).méritent la plus. grande attention: elles visent  à assurer la participation des jeunes à la vie sociale et au'développement par dés études -  comparatives, des. activités nationales, et régionales, et par l'association de la jeunesse  aux activités de l'Organisation. Je souhaite que les Etats membres précèdent l'action de
607   XX - Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  l'Unesco:en désignant chacun, au niveau le plus élevé, un homme jeune pour s'occuper des  problèmes de la jeunesse,
14. 22 Le dernier point de à mon’ fitervention sera consacré à la politique culturelle,
14, 23- A € sa quatorzième session, la Conférence. générale avait demanidé, lors de 1a discus-  sion du programme futur, que l'on fasse bénéficier "d'une priorité élevée les activités des-  tinées à aider les Etats membres dans 1'élaboration d'une politique culturelle, grâce à'l'or-  ganisation. de conférences régionalés de ministres des affaires: culturelles", Tout d'abord,  l'Unesco doit clarifier la notion‘de politique culturelle par des études: comparatives portant  sur des pays dont les niveaux de développement et les systèmes socio-politiques sont diffé-  rents, Cette clarification devrait s'effectuer sur le plan national aussi bien qu'internatio-  nal, Il est évident qu'une politique culturelle doit tendre à faire participer toute la société  A l'appropriation de sa culture - et cela dans la reconnaissance et le respect de la valeur  des autres cultures,  - 24
14,24 La seule culture exportable et ‘qui revêt en fait déjà un caractère international est  la culture moderne scientifique’; malheureusement, ‘elle est encore victime d'insuffisance,  d'égofsme et de violence, Si l'Unesco veut aider les Etats membres, elle doit tenir compte  des différents- stades auxquels ils ge trouvent. Si*elle les ignorait,” notre Organisation  atteindrait difficilement les objectifs organiquement liés qu'il faut voir, d'une part, dans  "la culture pour tous' à l'intérieur d'un pays, d'autre part, dans la culture pourle respect  et l'arnitié à l'égard des autres Pays sur le plan international.
14,25" En premier lieu, il faut identifier, 8 ‘approprier et utiliser la culture, Pour des  raisons faciles à comprendre, nous ÿ attachons une importance particulière, L'accession  à l'indépendance est la condition préalable au développement d'une politique culturelle na-  tionalé, Notre situation de pays en ‘voie de développement’ nous ithpose par ailleurs d'uti-  liser la culture, ses moyens d'expression et les instruments de'sa diffusion pour atteindre  les objectifs du développement économique, social, politique et culturel,
14.26 ‘C'est ainsi que nous participons très activement au rogramme ‘d'études sur Vhis-  toire générale de l'Afrique et d'études de lihguistique africaine, A ce sujet je voudrais, |  en lace dès verte i in et Le organismes dont le but est de traduire dans les faits cette  politique d'appropriation et d'utilisation, ce qui nous a valu en 1966 le Prix Japon décerné
21 l'Association des radio- clubs du Niger, ;  [SET
14, 27. ‘Le, théâtre occupé ‘chez nous une place de, oholx et s'exprime dans. toutes. nos langues  nationales ainsi, évidemment, . qu’en frangais,: Il constitue non seulement un moyen de ré-  cupération de notre culture, mais aussi et surtout un instrument d'éducation par excellence  grâce à l'emploi des ‘ 'mass media", en particulier de la radio, .En. effet, le théâtre parti-  cipe à l'évolution d'ensemble en traitant des problèmes actuels de notre société, qu'il s'a-  gisse d'institutions sociales qui entravent ou favorisent le développement (règles de ma-  riage), de phénomènes particuliers tels que l'exode rural, ou de pratiques condamnables  telles que le détournement de deniers publics,
14,28 Nous appuyons chaleureusement pour cette raison le projet d'études sur le théâtre  populaire prévu dans le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1969- 1970. E
14, 29 Après l'appropriation se pose le problèmie des votes: et moyens de détriston de la  culture, Et nous sommes parfaitement disposés-à reconnaître qu'il‘faut clérifier le‘don-  cept de droit à la culture, comme le prévoit le programme d e coopération Internationale  dans le domaine de la culture,  , 608   Sestones plenarias / MAeuaphue sacedauus XXII
14,30 La diffusion de la culture doit être assurée de manière appropriée :.les "mass  media" constituent l'un des instruments susceptibles d'être utilisés à’cet effet ; le livre  en constitue un autre ; le musée un troisième, Et, si nous évoquons l'exemple du Musée  national de Niamey, ce n'est pas pour nous étendre sur nos réalisations, même si nous  souhaitons exprimer encore une fois notre reconnaissance à l'Unesco qui a contribué au  développement de ce musée ; nous désirons simplement faire remarquer que les visiteurs  que reçoit chaque mois ce musée doublent la population de notre capitale ; et, parmi ces  visiteurs, les plus nombreux ne sont pas, comme on pourrait être tenté ‘de le croire, les  intellectuels, mais les ruraux, qui y accourent en masse,
14,31 Voilà ce que nous entendons par "culture pour tous" ; et une souscription lancée  en faveur du Musée national a permis de rassembler la somme de 6 millions de francs  CFA, soit environ 24, 000 dollars,
14.32 Enfin, l'application effective des principes de la coopération culturelle internatio-  nale et la ratification par les Etats membres d'instruments internationaux (conventions et  accords adoptés par la Conférence générale) sont les meilleurs moyens de développer  la coopération culturelle internationale,
14,33 En ce qui'concerne l'Afrique, nous souhaitons que la réunion prévue sur la politique  culturelle contribue largement au développement de cette coopération.
14,34 Nous venons de nouveau, par un acte unanime, de confier les destinées de l'Unesco  à un homme dont le dévouement, la compétence et la valeur sont au-dessus de tout éloge.  Je forme le voeu que les Etats membres continuent, plus encore que par le passé, à mettre  leur désir de coopération et leur amour de la justice au service de notre Organisation et  au service de la paix mondiale,
15,1 Le PRESIDENT. -  Je remercie S, Exc, M. Aboubakar,
15.2 Mesdames, Messieurs, la liste des orateurs inscrits pour prendre la parole cet  après-midi est épuisée,
15,3 La séanée est levée.  The meeting rose at 5.50 p,m.  La séance est levée à 17 h, 50  Se levanta la sesién a las'17; 50
3acenanne saKpHBaetTcAa B 17 4, 50 M.