Twenty-third plenary meeting"
39 October 1968 at 10.164, m.  President : ; Mr, ETEKI- -MBOUMOUA (Cameroon)  | Vingt- troisième séatice plénière
29 octobre 1968, à 10 TT :  Président : : M, ETEKI- MBOUMOUA (Cameroun)  Vigésimotercera sesion plénaria-  ps 28 de octubre de: 1968 a las 10, 15 ‘  Presidente: Sr. ETEKI- -MBOUMOUA (Caniertn) oe  i  Ipanïare Tpérse riéHäpHoe saceianme
29 okTaÔp# 1968 ‘à; 5°10 4. 16 un. ”  IpeacexaTers: r-H OTEKH-MBYMYA (KamepyH)  A 17 14  +, FPL 2: oar REN be ak vt dy, . V1 !  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued) /DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE: (sutte)/  REBATE: SOBRE POLITICA GENERAL: (continuaciôn)/ |  ; 8 + NEE SE 20!
1,1, Le PRESIDENT, cas 1 2 FT 1" Co '  "+ Mesdames, Messieurs; je déclare la vingt-tvotstème séance plénière ouverte.  to oii Tar
1,2" Nous allons: reprendre le débat de politique ‘générale. de ‘donne là parole ’à S.:-Exc/  M. Katiti, ministre de la culture ‘ét du développement communautaire; ctief-de la-déléga-  tion de l'Ouganda.  A  oi ul FIN sf El she B #0 PE he BERNIE I ce BE I Co
2, g) “Mr, KATTTL (Uganda) ::.: best EE NE Coon. nin SRR IW  .,, Mr. President, distinguished delegates. it is a , great pleasure ‘and privilege for me to  address this fifteenth session of the Géneral Conference of Unesco on Behalf of my deloga-  tion and the Government of the Republié of Uganda.
2.2 Mr. President}; 1 ‘takeithe’ Uberty of referring | to‘you as a éôn of. Africa: Wel are véry  proud of you and we gladly, associate. ourselves with the previous distinguished speakers in  congratulating: ÿou most warmly fon your:well-deserved election as President of: this Con  ference, May I algo take this opportunity: of conveying: our: congratulations to: Mr, René  Mahéu on’his ‘énañimous re- election to the post of the Director-General of this Organization. .  Wa wish to assure ‘him through you; Mri, President, of our fullest support and ¢o-operationy  We aïe confident’ that, thanks to his wide experience and forceful leadership, Unesco's éfforts  to, promote international understanding and; peace; will; go from strength to strength. :-
20oui ufr ar FTL ENS 2 4 CRT LCR 20, Le hate RR I Fed of de FL gigi 4e gi ey pie
2.3 Mr. President, {Uganda is one of the ‘emergent nations of Africa, + having had six: years  of independence after nearly, seventy years of- colonial: rule. Our country\lies ast#ide the  Equator in the heart of Africa, has a population of about eight million, and is blessed with.  a wonderful climate. , ; :  REUNITE RON ARE BE PE LR oy aies BRYN be, nie, ROUTE +. oo aid AIT E
2. 4 Distingutahed speakers have already made very interesting. statements and. have .re~  viewed the. various, spheres in which Unesco has served the free world and outlined the co-
611   XXIII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  operation taking plade in different programines sinonget Membe States,” "The Uganda dele-  gation approves of the Work that is to be cArridd out In the nest’ lenniiüm, ‘and hopes that  all projects set out in the Draft Programme and Budget for 1969-1970 will bu fully implemented.
2.5 The need to do thord in’ the field of ‘education, scienée and culture cannot be over-  stressed, especially in a developing country like Uganda where national five- year develop-  ment plans are, régularly, launched | to ensure rapid and planped, progress. ‘We in Uganda  believe that ohe of; the- math purposes’ >of ‘education is to create a well- alanced society  capable of handling the manifold tasks facing our nation. This means training both men  and women in the various specialized’ fields” of ‘education, science, the arts, medicine,  agriculture, commer'cé and hidustry and so on. The’ Government of the Republic of Uganda  has therefore decided to revolutionize education by expanding and extending schools,  colleges and other Institutions of Jearning. . £  f à s
2.6 Although much has been achieved since the first five-year development plan, much  remains to be done, The govdrnrment's aim'is‘to Increase the number of children in both  primary and secondary schools, “the greatest outlay beiiig in’the ‘latter sector which now  represents the most formidable bottleneck in the education system. To carry out this plan  effectively, many trained teachers at both primary and secondary levels will be required.  The need for ~ the immediate > expansion of our téachèr- training colleges is therefore imperative.  In view of this; the government has proposed ‘to rationalize the present primary teacher  training colleges both qualitatively and quantitatively.
2,7 Our government is, ‘however, very conscious of the fact that the educational system  has a much broader rôle to play than merely producing trained "manpower cogs' required  for certain jobs and for rapid economic development. It has a crucial rôle to play in shap-  ing attitudes and aspirations and in opening up new opportunities which are essential in  modern society and which are not yet available to.the great'majority.’ The government is  also aware that these objectives will be difficult: tô/aéliièvé- unless primary: education is  designed to suit the needs of the bulk of the population whose future lies in agriculture, while  giving boys and girls the opportunity to obtain the further education which‘ is a'necessary  background for their future. I am, pleased to inform the Conference that the.Government of  the Republic of Uganda has accepted and ratified the Convention Against Discrimination in  Education. -Our accession to this Convention comes at a time when we are celebrating the  Twentieth Anniversary of the Declaration of the Human Rights. -
2.8 I wish to record our appreciation of the assistance Unicef is giving towards the re-  training of 4, 000 primary teachers and the advisory assistance Of Unesco personnelin the  in-service training of primary teachers. It would be very much appreciated if Unesco and  Unicef could extend this assistance to include all primary teachers in Uganda, particularly  those who are untrained.
2,9 At this point'I would like to say how grateful we are to all thôsé Member Statés con-  cerned for their aid and for enabling us to recruit anumber of teachers from their countries.  We feel sure that with such continued assistance and our own determination we shall achieve  our educational goals in the second five-year development plan. iE
2 10. Formal education: is ¢ a’ preparation for the future but otir govérnment is also éénéernéd  with the‘solution of present-day problems. This is where adult éducation plays’ a'vital rôle  at all stages of economic and social development becduse itiis a préparation foi the prèsent.  When a country is trying to develop fast it must utilize all its human resources in the best  way possible. “ This’ calls for a maximum contribution from all its oitizéns. I have'in mind  the problem of -illiteracy - ore of the main problems confronting us in Uganda, ‘as in many  other developing countries.
2, 11 Hliteracy is also a world problem and occupies a key place in Unesco's ©/ogrammes.  We. are glad that every year this Organization convenes’ international conferences to review  and assess thie position. Illiteracy is not a new problem; it has existed throughout thé ages,
612   Sesjones plenarias /Msexapuue sacedanvs XXIII  but’ was riot sérious in simple arid self-sufficient societies. - Today it has become a pressing  problem at a time when technological advancement has brought about economie and social  changes which make adjustments essential. So :
2.12 'In-1964, our Presidént, Di,” A, M; Obote,-launéhed a national literacy campéign: by  appealing to the whole hatlori to join ih a country-wide programmé.’ À great effort is being  made to eradicate illiteracy through the Cornmunity Development Programme, Literacy  contributes to enlightened citizenship and brings a world of knowledge to the individual and  the community, Thousands of adult men and women each year pass through the literacy  classes, .
2,13 The Ministry of Culture and Community Development:in’ Uganda has recently reviewed  the overall literacy -programme and has now, with the advice of Unesco ‘experts, ‘ launched  many selective functional literacy classes in' eighteen” districts with a ‘view to” improving  literacy teaching methods and'evaluating the results-of our work, - Adult literacy- classes  continue in the countryside as a complement to functional literacy, In addition; ‘the govérñ-  ment is:stepping up efforts toencourage educated men arid women, including voluntary groups  of students and ôther organizations, to wage war against ignorance through the ‘medium of  adult literacy. Uganda is grateful for the assistänce we have received from Unesco, which  consisted of experts to advise on the literacy programme, ‘equipment for the programme,  Unesco gift-coupons which have helped us with the women's programmes; we are likewise  grateful for Swedish, Danish and Israel fellowships made available to anumber of our womén  leaders for courses in community development, adult education and literacy;. and for the  book van operated by the East African Literature Bureau. Assistance for the continuation  of this programme is ‘sought.
2.14 We also place great emphasis on our national culture and the Ministry of Culture and  Community Development is actively engaged in this sphere. Already Unesco has given help  to the National Theatre and Cultural Centre for Uganda, ‘The work cf promoting youth activities  is related to cultural activity and the National-Uganda Youth Or ganization was established  in 1964, The Ministry of Culture and Community Development issues a programme of activities  for. the ‘guidance of staff and this is adapted to the special needs of each branch. Although  this Organization is relatively young, it has gone a long way towards improving the facilities  and living standards of young people and also in developing the spirit of patriotism and nation  building.
2.15 My delegation is pleased, to note that the concept of mass communication embodied in  Unesco's ‘Constitution. is reflected in the Draft Programme and Budget, for, 1969- 1970 as a  means of déhieving € our. purposes. We agree that the basic human right to freedom of. infor-  mation can only become, a reality if:varied and. widespread action is taken all over the world.  We cannot leave, this entirely to thé Unesco Secretariat. The developing countries must take  some initiative, before they come to Unesco for assistance, Modern communication techniques  are needed 1f information is to flow from one Member State to another and we have already  requested Unesco to assist us in the establishment of a mass communication institute for the  East African community.
2.16... Exchanges of programmes for television and radio wil go ‘along way towards ensuring  exchanges of our cultural heritages as well as of information, In the Preamble to the Unesco  Constitution it is stated that "ignorance of each others ways and lives has been a common.  cause of suspicion ana ‘mistrust"”., We therefore see that lack of information breeds suspicion  and mistrust and finally leads to a breakdown of relations, -Within Unesco we must do every-  thing possible to bring about better understanding amongst Member States. The Uganda dele-  gation isitherefore very pléased to see that due emphasis is given to. thè free flow of infor-  mation and we believe that Unesco can Play a very. vital Fôle in this respect. . :
2. 17 1 ‘wish to mention briefly, the. progress made by the Uganda Film Unit attached to the:  Ministry of Information, Broadcasting and Tourism. Since its establishmerit, the unit has  produced a number of films for entertainment as well as for educational purposes. Some
613   XXII "++ "Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  of the. educational | films produced by the unit include: i'child-nutrition, better housing, clean  water, ‘ farming. with" oxen, . and. a number. of other subjects ‘of practical interest, . 1 wish to  record our ‘appréciation to Unesco for assisting us in the building up of this unit.
2/18 Mr. President, while. we ourselves are now free and haye joined others in this General  Conference; there are other, countries. which‘are still’ under. .the’ yoke! of colonialism. In  South West Africa’ we. have a people’ who could be benefiting from the: type of :services'that  Unesco offers; ; in Mozambique and Angola, to mention no. others, we have people who can-  not determine: theiriown future because of colonial oppression. . ' Mr. President when will  these people be free and able to join Unesco?
2, 19: -Uganda believes: that: without; political freedom, ‘freedom: to determine. one's’ future,  education, ‘ ,cultyral advancement; and frée exchange of knowledge cannot be achieved. - Peoples  must freely. determine tlie type of education’ they want; the type of government: that suits  them best and the type of cultural enjoyment appropriate to their environment, We consider  these are ‘lundamental human rights whichrcannot be abrogated because -some nations are  stronger than others.:: As Member States of:this Organization let us learn to réspect the  dignity of all men.and the integrity of other Member States, large or small.  RTI added. À Wf tr i h
2.20. ; Mr, President, the. Republic of: Uganda pledges’ its support and co-éperation to Unesco  in all its endeavours to achieve peace and universaluhderstandirig through education, science  and culture, ‘5... oe
3. Le PRESIDENT, - 7?  ‘Je remércie 1a chef de la ‘délégation de l'Ouganda et jé donne la parole à S. Exc.  M. Wina, ministre de 1'éducation, chef de la délégation de la Zambie,
4,1 Mr} WINA' (Zambia)? . ’ : a ‘  Mr. President, ‘distinguished délegates, ‘on behalf of my “délégation and thé Gôvérriment  of the Republic of ‘Zambia, I would like to congratulate you, Sir; ofi your unanimous election  to the Presidency ‘of ‘this aughist body. ‘May l'âlgo take this. ‘opportunity to’ congratulate Mr.  René: Maheu on his re-election to thé high offiée of Dirèëtor- -Genéral. Giver oùr ‘Kmowlèdge  of his brilliant, incisive administrative ability, ‘and his concérn for the dignity of man’ aiid  the’ development and security of man's welfare, we in Zdmbia look forward to his continued  contribution td the work of Unesco and human society as a wholé with a real sense of ‘hope  and optimism.
4,2 ‘Some two’ years ago,” my ‘predecessor’ caifle before this distin Giéhed: düdienée té deliver  a'message of hope: ‘and résolution on behalf of thé people of Zambia, At ‘thatt tine, thé ‘rebéls  in Rhodesia’ had? just Statéhed'théir ‘’indepëndenée" from the Hot: too“tighly ‘clenched Hat of  the'British Govérnment. ' At that time, despité the Hardship arising' from the legal ‘decià-  ration ‘of indepitidence, there was a firm conviction that we woutd ‘come through this aiffi=  cult:period; no matter what happened. - It was art: optimism born of our Hevwly-aèquired  independence.  BE HS TEE Sr
4, 3 The message I bring, once again, te a message of resolution anid of hope, “Zarbla- is  in a position to report remarkable progress, at very great sacrifice, in its educational de-  velopment,: “This,” ‘Mr, "Presidént, ‘lg rieithei the time nor the place té chtalogué our progress.  I shall; -hqwever,’ discuss very briefly’ gome of the problems peculiar tô Zambia in the hope  that our experience. may b e of interest’ to others in a situation similar’ to ours,  HERE CURE S cored sid pesado any sab FED oe A EYRE Dit : I
4,4 In ‘educational. planning, ‘our. targets of- expansion. have been- dictated by: our détermina-  tion to ‘achièvé ‘universal primary education for all: children’ of school. going’ age by 19783:and  to attain ‘self-sufficiency in the fléld of manpower within.a decade. To this end, our primary  school system has been expañdediby, over 90 per cent since 1960, - and.our secondary. school  enrolments by more ‘than 1, 200 per cent during the same period, Three years ago auniver-  sity, offering a wide range of disciplines including engineering and medicine; was éstablished.  In addition:to this, we have a few, and 11 must admit, far from n adequate, technical and vo-  cational institutions: ' .
4; 5 This/ iphenoménal expansion has brought in its wake a host of problems which; in our’  view,-are far more formidable than the initial business « of laying ohe brick on another and  opening one’ classroom’ after another. :  . tr VE PITRE GE QE > he ; :
4, 6. Firat; there is the question ôf- the: ccitent of the cdrrteulur. * When à country | attains’  independence, there is an immediate tendency to devote all available resources for educa-  tion to ‘quantifiable physical ekpansion,: with little or no regard to the contént of the Giirricu-  lum. »:But-éoonér or later, a’ newly-indeperident nation reaches a point where it must’ con-'  template the frightening possibility that the differencé bétween its system of ‘edication” and  that of the colonial past could well be merely orie of quantity rather than’ quality’ ‘and rele  vancy. We in Zambia are at present going through this: heart- gearching period in which we  are trying to-appraiseithe ‘relevancy of the conterit of our éducation tô the'bäsic humanistic  philosophy of our land,’ Humanism briefly defined is “the greater prosperity of man, man  in the widest sense of the word",  es . ‘ - H se,  “a . ter IES t H PIRES  A Là Fe I To) : hear
4; qu ‘We: consider die: question of curriculim dévélopment important.” TE is imperative ‘t that  dévéloping countries should definé their educational ‘goals as quickly as’ possible for unless  this is done there: ‘will'bé a lack of purpose and a éonsequent dissipation of scarce resources,  To do this job propérly and also ‘to facilitate development of international equivalence ‘of  diplomas, it is essential to seek the guiding hand of Unesco in addition to technical assistance.
4.8 Secondly,’ the developing countries face the problem of assessing’ priorities. " They  start from’a: position in which everything seems urgent arid requiring immediate action, If  they have espouséd a démocratic systern of ‘government, - the pressures for varios’ projects  from ‘different sectors of the community make the scale of priorities béwilderingly vast ‘and  complex..:In the ‘situation’ in whiéh-we find ourselves -a situation in which wé have äimyriäd  of possible projects competing for limited resourtès - planning is essential to éffective uti-  lization of those resources, In our country, and indeed'in other African countries, educa-  tion represents the largest single item of expenditure in the national budget, It is thus obvious  that educational planners are under an obligation to ensure an efficient utilization'of thé rè-  sources ‘oi goveimment, -We in Zambia are very conscious of this need, - especially after a  visit early this year of'a Unesco World Bank preparatory mission; It is therefore our hope  that this Orgänization, if so requested by any Member State, will regard the provision of  experts for this purpose as an important priority. a  EN 3 ‘ EINE SEE TN
4.9. Thirdly, every expansion at primary school level ha generated t he’ difficult problem  of the school leaver. The number of school leavers iat thé erid of this year’ who cannét be -  placed in secondary schools will bé 42, 000, double ‘that of last year. *Added to this 18 the  fact that wé have Teduced thé‘age for thé primary school entrance age from eight to séven.-  As a result,” a large numbér of primary school graduates will be too young to be gainfully  employed and not even legally employable.  a. 10 At present, it would appear that the’ ‘solution of this problem lies 5 in providing facilities  for vocational and technical education. iThis step'has the added: advantage’ that it" will'pro-  duce the much needed lower rungs of middle-level skilled manpéwer.'' The &chool’ lèaver  problem might also be solved by increasing our activity in the field of agricultural education  so as to prepare school leavers for agricultural work,‘ But it is our experience that, as’ ir  any other sectors, :the attractiveness' of 'agriculture is a function of the general level of  economio ‘activity and infrastructural services and, above’ all, ‘of mental attitudes. Until  the people acquiré purchasing power; until à nétwork of communications and markets is dé-  veloped, it is very difficult to'make'agriculture’ "attractive, - ‘Here too, in copirig ‘with’ the”  ever-increasing problems of the school leaver, we need assistance. For to do nothing about  it, or not to do enough, is to turn a good Investment à into crime, into social and’ economic  waste. 07 '  a - . ; Ta . Cea
4, 11 Yet another problem, which: will perhaps be even Move intractable for some time ‘to’  come; is the problem of teacher supply. At the level of primary schools in Zambia we have  one of the highest percentages of trained indigenous teachers in Africa.’ At'the secondary
615   XXII Plenary meetings / Séances pl£jières  level, however, the position is desperate in terms of local manpower, We have been able  to keep our schools staffed, .and staffed well, solely through the assistance:that ve have re-  ceived from many Member States of this Organization, ..To.give distinguisiied delegates an  idea of the scale of our operations, as of next year we shall require at least 500 new secon-  dary school. teachers, practically all df whom will have to be recruited from outsides Zambia,  + FS LEERY A" . Let GE 1 m4 2 Ca 4 H ;
4, 12. What. ate; the problems which arige trom: this state of affairs? . They : are many, chief  among them being the high turnover rate, leading to instability,- and the lack of tradition in  the new schools, ; My:government is doing everything possible to reduce the turnover rate;  it is striving, ‘with the assistance of Unesco, to ensure, increased output of teachers from  local sources, In this respect perhaps I may make special mention of the secondary teacher  project being operated at the University of Zambia by this Organization, Particularly grati-  fying to me is Unesco's willingness to extend the intake from 40 in 1967 to.100 in-1969,
4,13 ‘Mr. President," 1 have said enough to indicate the educational difficulties which we in  Zambia are facing. .;But my, statement would not be complete if I did not draw the attention  of this august body, to the violation of human rights in various parts of the world, notably in  Southern Africa: I feel it appropriate to do. so in view of the fact that 1968 is International  Human Rights Year, President Kaunda recently addressed the International Conference on  Human Rights of non-governmental organizations on this issue from this very rostrum,
4,14 In this regard, I would like in the first instance to inform the Gerieral Conference of  the educational plight of some of the ablest people in Africa who, through a perfidious acci-  dent of history, - cannot be here to speak for themselves. .I refer, Mr. President,.to the  millions of people of Zimbabwe, South Africa, South West Africa, Angola and Mozambique.  Unesco lias a difficult ethical mission to fulfil, and must therefore note what is happening to  the Africans living under these racist régimes,
4, 15. : The ‘fact, that Rhodesian Africans-could today run a government does not, of course,  gainsay the need for active assistance once democracy and human: rights are.restored to  that country, Even now such assistance -is necessary and urgent-because of the deliberate  and malicious programme of-slowing down African educational development which. the rèbel  régime has successfully carried out. Whereas, for ‘example, at the: beginning of 1964,  there were more African pupils in secondary schools in Rhodesia than in Zambia, the position  today is that there are roughly 133 per cent more pupils in these schools in Zambia than in  Rhodesia, The. main reason for this is not that Rhodesia lacks.the funds for this expansion,  since they have continued to provide 100 per cent progression. from primary into secondary  schools for all white children, ..'The reason is rather that: the government represents a  racial minority. Regardless of the amount of funds made available, . the Rhodesian African  will never experience any substantial expansion : of. education ‘unless there ‘is a change of  government from one representing a racial minority to one based on majority rule. It is  notimpossible - fuid I challenge anyone to deny this on the basis of the record of dishonesty  and deceit of the present régime - that the twenty million pounds promished by the British  Government will in fact be used to subsidize the white economy which has suffered slightly  from economic sanctions,
4, 16 May. I now: “turn, Mr. President, tothe Portuguese colonies - Mozambique and Angola -  where human rights are also being violated. Among the basic rights of man are the rights  to life and self-determination, but thesé are the very rights that are being- denied to the  Africans there as the struggle for emancipation continues against the ruthless Portuguese  forces. , Since. Zambla.shares common borders with these, countries, ‘we have- been faced  with an’ increasing refugee. problem, ‘More serious still, to Zambia, is the fact that Zambian  lives have been lost and property destroyed as a result of Portuguese .sir-raids on-innocent  border villages. As villages in Zambia are bombed and as Zambian lives are lost through  Portuguese gunfire, the patience of Zambians is wearing thin and they will soon demand that .  their government and the community of nations stop this piracy. We are surprised and in-  decd embarrassed to see a perpetrator of crime and a violator of human rights wearing a  cloak of respectability here.
4.17. Mr, President, ! have mentioned specific.cases as Ido not believe in presenting mere.  philogophical dissertations.on human rights, . I think-Unesco hag a moral duty tobe informed  of specific examples of the violation of human-rights in various parts of the world, I think  Unesco can, through its membership and moral status, inspire the conscience of mankind  to resolve this problem before it resolves itself disastrously, ;
4,18 In the developing countries of Africa, Âsia and Latin America, education is the key  to everything, Properly organized and faithfully executed, :it renders man more worthy of  his God-given status as. man, the very essence of humanity is enriched beyond measure by  it. Properly organized and skilfully executed, ‘it provides the key to that process of social  and economic evolution without which society cannot even remain stable but must decline  into decadence,
4.19 We have all’ experiéiiced the trängition” from CN ‘period’ ‘When man’s’ ie de  on the axe and his physical power. f atic  only bè achieved through’ recolirse: to highly-specialized techniqués in which! :  dividual is in danger of becomiing a mére cog. But that system,’ ‘nonethèléss. tli ‘depends  on man's ability to initiate, devise and develop, Man is, therefore, still” the alpha and  omega, he is thé very éssenté of technological dgvelopnient, ‘These consid erations clearly  underline the importance of human reséurces - an ‘objective’ Which” 1 trust this body'énd ifs’  distinguished and eminent experts will translate Anto practice terms, ‘th Unéscolé future’  projects. This is why Fi “Mr. ‘President, my, government feels itagreat honour to be, à membér  of this: body; this is' why" my governnient supports’ its ‘operations fully and is very. grateful  for he opportufiity it Was given two years ago to serve this Organization ‘through its member-  ship of thé Executive Board," For the same reason my’ government appreciates’ thé mahy  projects’ involving ‘collaboration with Unesco. For in receiving ‘and giving, let it not be for-  gotten ‘that the worthiness of the gift derives as much from its usefulness as ‘from the  worthiness of the giver. We are pleased, Mr. President, to report’ that we in Zambia have  received wor thy gifts from this body; we would like also to thank the Exécutive Board, the  Director-General and his staff for the enthusiasm and imagination with which they have re-  sponded to our requests.
4,20 Lastly, Mr. President, may I convey the greetings of my President, His Excellency  Dr. Kenneth Kaunda, to this Assembly and good wishes for thé success of its deliberations  from my government and people, 1 wish" too, ' to thank all the staff G Unesco and the  Director-General in particular for the hospitality which they accorded out‘ President when  last he visited this great city and this great country.
5, Le PRESIDENT. -  Je remercie Ie chef de la délégation de la Zambie et je donne la parole à S, Exc.  M. Ahmed Ben Salah, -ministre de l'économie et de l'éducation nationale, chef de la délé-  gation de la Tuniste.
6.1 M. BEN SALAH (Tunisie). - (Discours prononcé en arabe, Texte fourni par la déléga-  tion de la Tunisie, )..  ‘Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, permettez-moi, au début de cette intervention,  de présenter mes plus chaleureuses féliçitations as, Exc, M. Eteki-Mboumoua, pour son  élection à la prépidence de la quinzième session de'la Conférence générale, La Tunisie  s'honore de voir la présidence de cette session confiéé à une personnalité de cette jeune  Afrique qui aspire à une vie nouvelle. C'est pourquoi, tout en félicitant M, Eteki-Mboumoua,  nous nous félicitons également nous- -mêmes de son élection,
6.2 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames; Messieurs, “voilà deux ans, encelieumême, nous  fétions le XXe anniversaire de notre Organisation, et nous rendions unanimement un juste  hommage à'l'oeuvre magnifique qu'elle poursuit dans le monde, en célébrant les résultats  atteints grâce au développement des organes « directeurs et exécutifs.
6, 3 Avec le nouveau programme, tel qu'il nous est présenté - programme qui met l'accent  sur les problèmes de la culture - nous sommes particulièrement heureux de constater que,
617   XXIII © .+ Plenary meetings / Séances plénièrés  coming l'a:gouligné 16 Directeur ‘général dans son discours d'introduction, les trois” axes ‘  majeurs 'de1'action de notre Organisation + éducation ‘‘aèlerice'et culture - se'trouvent dé-  sormais bien dégâgés'et font l'objet d'une planification satisfaisante; La réélection, - à: la ”  tête de l'Unesco, ‘de M. René-Maheu, ‘dont nous connaissons tous la compétenceet le dé-  vouement et dont l'éloge n'est plus A:fairé, ‘est’la méilleure marque’de tonfiance qué nous  pouvions donner à notre Organisation, dont l'action ne cesse de s'étendre,  Car . FE ' N  à somirer an durée ot se péreñinifé, il faut créer l'homme capable de la comprendre, et. de deat  PE  tion et de développement continu.  LOL RC A cie TURN SF SUS Va rt 1 SARE BS PE FE ; ©,
6.6. La Tunisie se trouve aujourd'hui engagée. dans une.grande réforme de son système  scolaire et universitaire. Fidéles à notre démarche et après dix années d'efforts soutenus  qui ont falt ‘passer de 10 3 76 % le taux de scolarisation dans notre pays, nous avons jugé  nécessaire de réexaminer en profondeur l'oeuvre déjà accomplie et de déterminerle che-  min qu'il nous reste à parcourir afin de pouvoir mieux orienter et préciser notre action  future.
10 Le EE + , Cen - . : .
8.7- Nous ne nous sommes embarrassés d'aucune idéologie et d'aucun carcan intellectuel  préconçu, et hous avons rassemblé au sein d'une commissién nationalé.de’l'énseignement  des dirigeants politiques, des enseignants, des étudiants et des responsables de tous les  secteurs ‘économiques’ ét sociaux et 'de toutes les organisations nationales, Nous avons ainsi  travaillé toute une année, bien avant que ne sé déclenche le grand mouvement côntéstätaire  dont bia conataté les manifestations un peu partout dani lé miénde, Dé14 sorte, nous avons  été amenée’ à repenser tout notre Système éduéatif. En vie d'harmonisér'plus complètement  le ‘développement de l'éducation et celui ‘de l'écohomie; ‘et pour résoudre au mieux les pro-  blèmes que pose lé financement de l'éducation, les finances, le plan et tous les secteurs  économiques, ainsi que l'éducation, ont été placés, à partir de juillet 1967, sous la même  autorité. ; :
8.8 Trois:prindipes essentiéls ont guidé noire réflekion, “ à la lumière ‘de l'eXpérience ‘  acquise: la nécéssité'd'atnéliorer la qualité de l'enseignement à tous léb échèlons car la  démociatisation de l'enseignenient risque dé se soldér par üNeé'éertaine bâisse'de 'nivéaü ;  le besoin d'enräciner notre ‘eriselgnement -; de fa¢on plus profôtidé dans‘la Vie nationale ;'  enfin, la nécessité de tenir compte des exigences du développement économique et des be-  soins dela Tunisie en cadres - ce qui est, du'reste, conformé à l'une des recômmaridations  les plus importäntes de riotre Organisation, Ne voulant en aucurie façon cédèr à la facilité,
618   Sesiones, rlenarlas / Haexapune sacédanss XXII  nous nous proposons; avant‘tout;! d'améliorer/lé qualité dé'fos'enseignants et d'erifaire des  cadres valablès, ‘en instituant:up systèthe. de formation etde stages continus; Afin d'assûrer  toutes les chances de succes à ce que nous’ appélône ‘déjà Ma bâtaillé dinivead"!; nous avons  jugé indispensable de décharger les: Anspeéteurg et les directeurs’ ‘d'écoles da 16ufd travail  administratif qu'ils exécutent, pour. les rendre à léur vocation premiere; ‘ à savoir l'eñca-  drement des enseignants. L'introduction de nouvelles méthodes et l'expérimentation des  résultats récemment acquis en matière de pédagogie seront alors possibles, grâce à ce  recyclage permanent et aussi grâce à l'action de > l'Institut de psychopédagogle que nous  avons décidé de créer.
6.9 Mails notre anibitron # fie ‘s'arrête p as] là cary “outre je niveau proténtionner di ja PA =  giqué, il faut ‘éléver le niveau’ civique, def nos ’éhiselgnants énles Ln gibiltgants aux ‘problèmes  qui se ‘posent ‘d'Hotte éoñitniinauté 7 nationale’: “je veux parler de 1 lurgehice dù di svéloppement  et'dé‘la conatruétion afin fiation à mioderiné, "Nous" devolis Fompre. l'Igolemenit dans lequel  s'est trouvée'1! institutiôn scolarre at faire’ en éôrte € de Venselgnentent soft’ réliitégré dang  la éité et soit au main de Ta” ‘éommny uinauté Nols avons’ donc, "décidé de révoir les”, pro  grammes Jenselgne ent'däins ce séñs, en (organisant, pou iés'élèvés des'visités cofimen-  de la ole line Verltable br: et du déracinement, si  Cultonoria à dans les pays en vole “dé  développement. Lo ‘ ;Ç  . : Tg : Co A ©
6.10 si ‘Wécole ‘doit s'intégrer, à; l'hisfoire et ala ‘civilisation de notre ‘peuple; elle; doit ;  aussi, répondre à ses besoins du, moment. et acquérir par, conséquent ] la, souplesse néces- _  saire pour. s'adapter à chaque. nouvelle ; étape du développement économique du pays. Dans,  la mesure même où la Tunisie a opté pour, Ja. rationalisation. de ses efforts. et pour, 14 pla-  nification, il est évident qu'un secteur ‘aussi vital ae, ‘célui de: J'enséignement: ne peut res-,  ter à l'écart et, continuer, a igriorer;1 le monde, de la production ; ni les grandes Voies, de la  civilisation, moderne. Faire en sorte qu'à “chaque niveau d'enseignement corresponde. une,  réelle qualifiéätion professionnelle et qu'à. chaque qualification corresponde un emploi ; :  voilà notre objectif, Nous avons fait en espace de quelques mois ure’ étude de ce > grand  mettra d'établir le dialogue entre deux mondes complémentaires qui, jusqu'ici, s'ignoraient, ‘
6.11 En outré, pour faire face, dès la rentrée de 1968 au plus urgent de nos, besoins, ; à  savoir la formation de cadres agricoles ous avons décidé, de, créer, dans ‘les € éta lisse-  ments d'eniséignement ‘secondaire une dot ‘préparant à a un Baccalauréat agricole ‘et, au  sein de l'Ecole normale éupérfeuré, une’ section où l'on’ forméra des ingéniéurs profes-  seurs d'agriculture ; nous avons également décidé d'augmenter lé nombre des bourses  accordées pour des ‘études. d'agriculture et de pédagogiè; ainsi que’ d'iñatituer un présa-  laire ‘pour les étudiants’ ‘qui: blilvent- cès deux types d'enseignement, à partir de là‘troi-  sième arinée'd'étrides. TA travêrs toutes ced meésurés; ili se révèle &ertés’ que nous essayons  esséntiellement d'établir des liens organiquès entre. l'éducatiôn: et l'emploi ; mais hous -  nous. sommés également préocéupés’ de résoudre le problème de la liaison entre’ l'ensei--  gnement et la recherche, ‘en décidant notamment. ‘que’ chaque’ faculté devra organiser’ la re  cherche scientifique dans son domainé et ‘qu'en principe tout: professeur dé faculté est en  même temps un chercheur! Un institut national ‘de- planification, de'statistiques et d'études  économiques et sociales a été créé < en vue de réorganiser et d'unifier les recherches en  sociologie et en économie,’ Con oe a or
619   XXII € Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
6.12. Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurg, telles sont les grandes lignes de la  réforme; que nous avons.commencé à appliquer, en, Tunisie, en vue d'élever l'enseignement  au-niveau de'la fonction sociale qui doit être la sienne, .de contribuer à asseoir sur des :  bages solides ;une société moderne et de favoriser ainsi une véritable renaissance cultu-...  relle, sans laquelle il n'est pas de développement réel. Vo
6, is A notre ‘action « en vus. de la scolarisation correspond un n effort. pour assurer a ‘tous le  libre. accés.a la. culture, Par la lutte contre l'analphabétisme; axée; prinoipalement sur les  secteurs organisés, par la diffusion de la culture dans tout le pays et dans toutes les couches  sociales, au moyen de la radio, de la télévision, du cinéma, du théâtre. et des arts, par la  ‘multiplication ausel des institutions culturelles, surtout dans les régions les Po déshéri-  eta,  a dégager notre personnalité. et à recouvre? notre authenticité nationale,
6,14 ‘Ainel: c'est à ‘partir de nôtre ‘spécificité historique, géogräphique, culturelle, que  nous ‘concevons notre apport à la civilisation universelle, et non par l'imitation d'autres  pays, Cette option est’ d'autant plus importante qu teile constitue la seule garantie qu'une -  réelle coopération pourra un jour s' ‘instaurer entre les peuples.
6.15 Mais comment parvenir à réaliser cet idéal de coopération réelle entre les péuples  et cette renaissance culturelle, alors que, dans le monde, des peuples continuent à lutter  contre la- domination étrangère et l'oppression coloniale, comme le’ peuple palestinien, le  peuple de 1'Angola’ ‘et celui dy Mozambique ? Comment tolérer, en ce slécle de résurrec-  tion des’ nationalités,’ que se ‘poursuive éncoré le drame du peuplé palestinien, chassé’ de  ses terres ét lHvré'à la misère matérielle et morale; victimé d'uné des plus grandes infus-  tices de ce siècle‘? ‘Après plus de vingt ans de souffrances,’ 1és Paléstiniens démontrent au  monde’ entiér, comme nos frères d'Angola et du Mozambique, qu'ils'existent et qu'ils savent  payer le prix de la liberté. Puisse leur combat pour la dignité récueillir l'appui et l'aide so-  lidaire de tous les pays épris’ d'équité et de paix !
6.16 Moni" ‘le Préélaeïit, j'mésdémeés Rimini si plat pété ia’ liberté’ renouer  AU  géë tres l'Unescë, ets c'est 26 parce qu parce qu lélles’ ‘peuvent apboritr hed modeste contri-  bution à la golütiôri'dés ‘prébièmes soulevés ali’ cours’ ‘de 1'examen du ‘Projet de programme  et de budget | pour 1969-1970, ‘Nous considérons en ‘effet l'oéuvrèe de l'Unesco comme une  oeuvre collective à laquelle ‘chaque pays se doit d'apporter les fruits dé son expérience,  pour le bien de tous.
7. Le PRESIDENT) -:  Je ‘rémercie 18'chef dé la’ ‘délégation de la Tunisie et’ je donne la parole à S, Exc.  M, Larrea- Benalcazar, ministre de l'éducation, ‘ chef de la délégation de 1'Equateur,
3, à ' rl + +  M RE y
623   XXI «** - Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
8.28 Los ecuatorianos sômos uh pequefio’ pals que ama-la cultura y que ha puesto mailos  a la obra en la gran tarea deiconstruir'y de sembrar,  Graclas, sefior Presidente,  Lo Io . Le EAE :  . iy el  EE TS Pe 7 1 2 C1 KOE LS  Ly  + +     (s.i) M: LARREA"BENALCAZAR (Equatéur)-<' (THaduit de llespagrlel, ) on SRE  ~~ | Monsieur le Président,” Messieirs fed’ délégués, en ma qualité de ministre de {iédication et °  * ’de*çhef‘de’là délégation'de 1'Equatéur,® j'ai 1thénnéur de vous trahsmettre le édédial salut dé ‘moh’  .: pays. etide’ vous exprimei les voeux chaleureux que nous formons pour: le succès de cette quinzidme  . session de la Conférence générale. Si cette gession reyêt une importance considérable, c'estparce  qu'elle groupe, comme les précédentes réunions de l'Unesco, des esprits aussi éminents que les  vôtres, plus préaccupés que jamais par les passionnants problèmes qui sont de nature à influer sur  la vie de nos peuples, sir la déstinée historique de notre épôque et sur notre mission à tous rela-  tive à l'éducation 'êt à la culture.
(8. 2)  L'huranité vit actüellement'des’inetants décisifs. L'homme, être mystérieux et étrangé,  capablé'dés plus'haûtés provesses et des acter les plus'monstrueux, chemine, lesyeux ouverts,  vers -l'avenir.:Il se hausse jusqu'aux étoiles pour les caresser de ses malhs et, dans le même  temps, il sème la désolation et la mort sur les champs de bataille, il massacre et il’ détruit ;  mais il construit aussi, et il chante. :
(8,3). Etre étränge que l'homme ! En ce siècle où la technique travaille pour la mort, .on voit  cependant fleurir l'amour et le respect de la vie. Je crois qu'il nous faut prendré l'engagement  de devenir des hommes plus dignes de ce nom, c'est-à-dire plus humains,’ Nous avons oublié -
1'humanisme pour nous laisser séduire par le pragmatisme, le matérlalisme ou l'extravagance.
11 semble que, -perdant de vue lés nobles idéaux qui s'expriment dans les ‘parchemin et les livres’  nous ayons donné libre cours à l'ayidité, à l'exploitation de l'homme par l'homme, à un ôdieux dé-  chafement des passions, à une violence stérile, à la perfidie et au malheur, . - ee  Petia Po SP LOT 22h65 RS CEERI PN ‘ » Hp ANR SO ! D
(8.4) Notre jeunesse se débat entre un monde oul touche à sa fin et le monde nouveau qui:est en  train de naître. De là sa rébelllon, que heaucoup jugent sans causes ; de là les protestations et  les clameurs par lesquelles elle Ste le sommeil à ceux qui sont habitués à l'immobilisme.et à  l'inertie. ) ’  a PACE .. +
(8.6) Jé‘véldräis, a vous qui représenteZ'leï 16 monde de l'éducation et de ‘ia ‘cuituré, vous poser  les questions gue voici : Qu'âvons-Rous fait pour la jeunesse ? Quels remédes avonstnous’ trouvé
4 ses maux-et que lui ayons-nous offert pour répondre à ses aspiratickis, 7 Ihsécurité ét prôtesta-  tion, inquiétude et rébellion, c'est là ce qui prévaut aujourd'hui parmi les jeunes, La grève et  l'ineurrection sont les signes par lesquels le jeunesse manifeste. son attitüde en face des sys- -  tèmes d'enseignement et des régimes politiques. À travers un psychédéllsme aux formes, myl-  tiples, elle combat, à sa manière, les conventions soclales, Et pour avoir pris cetté attitude, .  elle à été victime de toutes dortes de répressions : expulsions, emprisonnements, massacres,
(8.6) Les problèmeu ‘de la jeunesse auraient besdin ‘d'être étudiés à fond par dés séclologues;  des philosophes, :des psychologues et des éducateurs qui devraient unir leurs efforts pour faire  appliquer, par l'intermédiaire de l'Unesco, un ensemble cohérent de mesures visant à remédier  d'tous ces gl‘avés conflits, ‘ ‘ ‘  OT TRRSEE TH ae ft" : . 1 [a - ‘ "Te LE Ra A .  I TY FUN LO TI ne aa 88 4 EC QE 0 2 log ati R ce
(3,7) Dé toute façon, noug devrions, devant ces problèmes, réfléchir à la part de responsabilité  qui revlént À chacun de nous. Interprétons-nous comme il convient lé monde dans lequel riots vi-  vonis, ?’ N'aurlons-nious pas tendance à nous accrocher. dégespévéront à un pnégé révold ? Sexait-H.  vrai gue nous soyons deméurês sourds aux ries d'agonie d'un monde qui a commencé ‘à, mourir,  "fe jour od est nèe 1h bombé atoriique # Qui sait si'nous nè‘commençohs pas à percévoir les vagis-  sements du mondé nouveait qui èst en train de naître ét dont l'apparition fait vibrer le cuaur des  jeunes dans tous les pays de la terre. n
(8. 8)-C'est-la jeünesse qui, de tolit temps, : a réndu possibles les grands changements et lès  grandés transformations sociales’; il est donc permis dé supposer qu'elle nous lan¢s aujourd'hut  . le ori d'alèrte dopt nous avons besoin, méme sj nous nous acharnons à ne pas entendre co cri ou  à vouloir le faire taire, Méditons profondément sur l'idée que c'est peut-être du. côté de la jeu-  nesse que se trouvent la justice et la raison. Sachons agir avec honnCteté et avec plus de justice  : que nous n'en avons montré jusqu'ici, - Co ’  . IL 113 0 oe - Co . AE LE 4 et 1 272 à 14°
(8.9) Malheureusement, les procédés jusqu'à présent employés exaspèrent'et traumiatièent‘les  jeunes. Ce n'est pas l'adoption de tellé ou telle attitude qui peut aider à la solution'du problème.
11 faut,’ &'notre avis, que 1'Unésco lance un appel aux gouvernements “de ses Etatä mémbres pour  obtenir la mise en pratique'de méthodes grace auxquélles la’ formation donnée à la jeneése - dans  uh €sprit de compréhension, de respect et d'assistance -'deviendrait la mèllléure ‘garantie d'un  avenir où triompheraient'la justicé, la'paix, le bien-être et la fraternité entre 1és hommes.     lement aux moyens dé production,  naturelles et l'injustice de l'actuel système de répartition des richesses, telles sont les véritables  causes de ce phéhomène. ; ° : -
(8.11) Il appartiént aux hommes dé écléñée, aux hommes de culture et'aux éducateürs de trävail-  ler avec passion ét dynamisme a l'édification d'un moride dont äuront'disparu l'injuétiée, la faim  et‘l'explôftation. La régulation des natssanées'aggravè'daris ros ‘'sociétés d'aujourd'hi les divi-  sions existantes et même en provôque de nouvélles ; élle conduit à l'iricertitude, à la névrose, à  l'affaîblissement et à la dégénérétion de l'espèce humaine { elle risqué même d'aboutir à des gé-  nocides et à'des'phénomènes racistes comme ceux que ions avons connus.
(8,12) it taudratt'adoptér une altihige courageuse et, ‘en recoirant à tous les mioyèns d'information  possibles, tenter de faire partout prévaloir ure noble politique humaniste qui permettrait de saisir  les vraies causes des problèmés, donc de trouver les meilleurs moyens d'assurer partout la pro-  tection et la dignité de l'espèce humaine, to  ied Re sis js Lu 11 44 A I EY TAs joveï dans 16 déetépperdait ot 16 progiée da Ihiianite,  Cleat elle qui permet aux peuples d'accéder aux hauts degrés de civillsation’et de cüllure qui font .  la dignité de l'homme, Aussi Hent-elle aujourd'hul unie place de choix parmi toutes les entre-  prises qui peuvent s'inscriré dans un programmé politique d s Etats. De toutes. cés entreprises,  la plus noble ct la plus humaine est toujours celle qui ténd au développement de l'éducation et de  la culture, ° : La.  I [PERE LR LL gag 1 PS SN ET I BI SY RAD EE 4 A PV oy A Ti ;
(8. 14) L'éducation rie peut pas avoir de limites ; elle ne peut être qu'ünivéréelle, Aussil'Unesco  ne sauraît-elle;-à notre avis, se donner dé mellleure devisé que la suivante: éducation pour la  paix, pour le développement intégral des hommes et des peuples et pour le bonheur universel.  SETI EF CR TIE EN IE IT LIRR IL] ee Ca at TM QUE ta Ten SES
(8.15) On voit se dégager de cette, tormulè un fait évident { guerre et éducation sont dex termes  diamétralement opposés, La guerre, c'est 1'anti-culture, c'est 1'anti-humanité, c'est l'anti-vie,  La guerre détruit tout cé que l'homme et la civilisation ont de plus précieux. Et elle coûte fabu-  leusement cher, Le budget annuel d'armement des grandes puissances suffirait à financer la com-  . plête application des programmes qui visent à apporter à tous les peuples du monde les bienfaits  du progrès, de l'éduçation et de la culture. : ; $ . 1 [I ,  RASE EE) ; APS + ‘ ; i I ni pt 6 ‘; 515 Ila » Lo he BEE SE] PR Ki = 1 FERRE EEN SR EP
(8. 16) .C'est pourquoi il est si importent que des orginismes comme l'Unesco, mettent toute lour  énergie et toute leur.compétance au service de la lutte pour la paix et contre la guerre, . Peut-il  y avoir, à notre époque, de plus haute tâche que celle qui consisterait à dénancer tout acte de  provocation, d'agression où de guerre ? Accomplir courageusement et honnêtement cette tâche  reviendrait, en fait, à s'acquitter de la haute .téche qui incombe à l'homme entant qu'être humain :  défendre la vie, défendre la culture, défendre la dignité humaine, .. - . - ot  “ Pt  EIRRUI AL SN IPE FI EE 54  Sr EE - CE EE a ‘ a. Pot >
(8.17) Les professeurs, les hommes de science,,19s savants et les techniciens devraient .vouer  leur intelligence à la construction d'un avenir pacifique. Il est paradoxal et injuste quela culture
625   XXIII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  puisse se mettre au service des forces de destruction et d'extermination. Il conviendrait d'adres-  ser aux hommes de science un appel par lequel ils seraient invités à s'abstenir de participer aux  programmes qui tentend À l'amélioration des instruments ‘de guerre, au perfectionnement des  armes de destruction et de mort, un appel par lequel ils scraient en même temps conviés à unir  leurs efforts pour travailler au progrès de l'homme, Au nom de la culture universelle, au nom  de l'éducation, au nom du présent et del'avenir de l'humanité, tous les êtres humains qui peuplent
1a terre devraient se sentir terus de lutter contre la haine, contre le sectarisme et contre le  bellicisme,
(8.18) Il convient d'indiquer que, citoyens d'une république qui aime la paix et la compréhension  internationale, les Equatoriens ont appris à parler un langage de vérité qui, s'il est parfois dur,  est toujours sincère ; ils ont appris à préférer aux vaines paroles les remarques réalistes comme  celles dont Romain Rolland a émaillé son Jean-Christophe, à exprimer leurs sentiments avec  franchise et ardeur.
(8.19) Je représente ici, je suls fier de le dire, un gouvernement éminemment populaire, né de  la volonté librement exprimée, lors des élections, par la majorité de la nation ; et Je tiens à vous  signaler, Messieurs les délégués, que sous l'inspiration de l'actuel président de la République équa-  torienne, ‘M. José Maria Velasco Ibarra, nous avéns mis en route dans mon pays, tant sur le plan de  l'éducation que sur le plan économique et social, de sérieuses et profondes réformes, dans lesquelles  nous avons vu le seul moyen d'arracher les masses équatoriennes à la faim, à l'ignorance et à la  misère. J'ajouterai que nous demeurons résolus à défendre l'indépendance et la souveraineté de  notre pays et à servir fidèlement notre patrie dans l'union et le sacrifice.
(8.20) C'est pourquoi nous avone adopté, dans la courte période qui s'est écoulée depuis que le  nouveau Gouvernement équâtorien est arrivé au pouvoir, un certain nombre dé mesures fondamen-  tales : (a) l'extension de l'enseignement a été assurée à tous les niveaux. En dépit de la pénurie  des locaux sçolaires, de l'insuffisance de nos ressources et de la crise financière que traverse  le pays, aucun enfant, aucun adolescent ne doit être privé de la possibilité de fréquénter,un éta-  blissement d'enselgnement, Nous vivons, en pratique, comme si pour résoudre les problèmes  d'éducation on avait proclamé l'état d'urgence, Dans chaque école, l'enseignement se donne selon  deux ou trois horaires différents, le but étant de satisfaire à toutes les demandes d'inscription, et  l'action d'éducation est désormais menée avec fermeté et optimisme ; (b) un décret entré en vi-  gueur dans toute l'étendue du pays assure en outre la gratuité de l'enseignement public. Les élèves  des établissements officiels d'enseignement primaire et secondaire sont exonérés de tout droit  d'inscription ou de scoldrité et il né leur est demandé, pour quelque motif que ée soit, aucune con-  tributioh d'aucune sorte ; (c) le Ministère de l'éducation a subi une réorganisation administrative  et technique visant à faciliter son action et à le débarrasser du virus de la bureaucratie qui avait  tendance à paralyser son travail ; (d) un décret a été promulgué pour mettre en route le planinten-  sit d'alphabétisation pour l'âpplication duquel le pays tout entier doit être mobilisé à partir de jan-  vier 1969, "Année de 1'alphabétisation' ; l'analphabétisme constitue en effet pour nousunterrible  fléau social auquel il importe de mettr= fin, puisque près d'un million d'Equatoriens demeurent  encore privés d'instruction et de culture,
(8.21) Notre pays est en cours de développement. A la vérité, tout nous fait encore défaut, Mais  nous avons le vif désir de construire quelque chose et de donner à notre république des bases so-  lides. Nous avons envie de travailler, Et c'est là, à mon avis, ce qui importe,
(8.22) Nos plans et programmes de transformation sont en route. Nous savons combien il est dif-  ficlle de mener, en cherchant à brûler les étapes, une action rapide et vigoureuse. Mais nous avons  conflan¢é dans nos proprés forces et nous espérons obtenir la généreuse collaboration d'organisa-  tions capables, comme l'Unesco, de comprendre les aspirations et les espoirs des peuples qui  cherchent 'à s'élever et à progrèsser.
(8. 23) ' Nous mariquéns de locaux écolaires, nous manquons de matériel 'd'enseignément, nous man-  quons d'aide technique, Nous avons commencé à appliquer, en collaboration avec les forces armées,  uh plan d'utilisation des bâtiments militaires tendant à installer, dans chaque groupe debâtiments,  une école et un centre d'alphabétisation, Nous nous sommes efforcés de tenir loyalement les enga-  gements que nous avons pris sur le plon international et, en particulier, ceux que nous avons accep-  tés envers l'Unesco, ' :
(8.24) Parmi les activités qui ont retenu 1'attention de l'Amérique lating; il faut citer celles du  CIESPAL (Centre intérnational ‘d'étidés'supérieures de journalisme pour l'Amérique latine).  Chaque année, des journalistes bénéficiaires de bourses se réunissent à Quito pour y suivre les  stages de perfectionnement de ce centre, dont les travaux et les recherches se poursuivent dans  de bonnes conditions, ce qui lui vaut, dans l'ensemble du continent, un prestige bien mérité.
(8, 25) H importe d'assurer le maintien du projet expérimental d'alphabétisation et du Centy'e na-  tional d'alphabétisation, qui ont entre eux des liens étroits et bénéficient de l'appui de l'Unesco.
(8,26) Le programme qui se développe sous les auspices de l'Unesco en faveur de l'éducation  pour la compréhension, la coopération et la paix internationales est très apprécié en Equateur  parce qu'il constitue, dans le domaine de l'éducation, le premier programme expérimental qu'on  ait voulu planifier scientifiquement, pour le réaliser ensuite systématiquement et 1'évalder  méthodiquement.
(8.27) Le çollège féminin "24 de Mayo" a servi de centre d'expérimentation pour le projet de  l'Unesco et de bons résultats ont été obtenus en ce qui concerne la réalisation des importants  objectifs que voici : mettre en évidencé l'unité et la continuité historique de l'humanité ; renfor-  cer l'esprit équatorien et le sentiment de la dignité nationale ; montrer que c'est en se fomiliari-  sant avec les mérites, les ressources et les problèmes de sa propre nation, én‘contribuant à son  progrès et en essayant en même temps de se faire une image exacte des autres peuples, qu'on  peut aider à jeter les bases de la coexistence internationale ; stimuler l'intérêt pour les problèmes  qui se posent sur le plan international et favoriser la formation des critères selon lesquels doivent  être examinés ces problèmes, une attention particulière devant être apportée À ceux qui ont trait  à la condition de la femme en Equateur et dans l'ensemble du monde,
(8.28) Petit pays, mais pays épris de culture, l'Equateur a commencé à participer à la grande  tâche qui consiste à construire et à semer pour l'avenir.
9. Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie le chef de la déiégation de l'Equateur et je donne la parole à M, Alvin  Eurich, président de la Commission nationale des Etats-Unis d'Amérique pour l'Unesco,  chef de la délégation des Etats-Unis d'Amérique.
10.1 Mr. EURICH (United States of America):  Along with the distinguished delegates who have spoken before me in this general policy  debate, I wish to take this opportunity of congratulating the President and the Director-  General on their election to these high offices. Their election assures Unesco of continuing  and most effective leadership. We are fortunate indeed that they have been willing to as-  sume these demanding responsibilities during these troubled times, In speaking to you to-  day, I do so with a deep feeling of humility, a feeling due to a recognition of the very great  collective experience and wisdom of the representatives of nations, large and small, from  around the world, before whom I have the honour to speak on behalf of my country and my  delegation. ;
10.2 I find it particularly appropriate that among the topics proposed for this general de-  bate is the Second Development Decade, from the point of view of man and the development  of human resources. We are not satisfied with the First Development Decade, we will not  be satisfied with the Second or with the Third or the Fourth, if we have them. À satisfied  world would not want, nor could it profit from, Unesco. À satisfied world would be a world  without help and without hope; a werld in which the process of development had been  arrested,
10.3 Our Member States are very diverse, but we must not continué to make the grave érror  of interpreting diversity as a dichotomy, or to use the current word, a "polarization" of our  Member States into "developed' and "developing' nations. Speaking for myself, and recog-  nizing widely different viewpoints even in my own country, I think we have made this mistake  and that as a result we deprive Unesco of much of its usefulness and effectiveness in carry-  ing out its original purpose. We must now do some hard and clear rethinking about the basic  problem of how to develop our human resources fully. ‘
10.4 The recent Conference on the Biosphere recognized that we are all passengers in the  same insecure vessel in space. We now note that the world is embroiled in a social revo-  lution which promises even greater changes in. our lives, most of them hopefully for the  beiter, than the technological revolution which preceded and, in fact, caused. it. From this  social revolution emerge some of our common problems, critical situations which no Member
627   XXII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  State-can afford to ignore. All of these situations raise potentially, if not actually, global  problems.
10.5 Amongst the” ‘factors cäntributing to our common problems there is, first of all, the  admittedly remote’ ‘but still never ‘to be forgotten threat of nuclear war;. even the possibility  brings a feeling of insecurity to life itself. Second, there.is the probable persistence of  more limited warfare despite all that can be done, through Unesco and otherwise, ‘to broad-  en and enlighten the minds of men, primarily because we have not yet learned to negotiate  differences between nations or live with them on more rational terms, Third,‘ there is the  increasing râte of crime throüghout ‘the world and the need to’ dévelop hew means of "social  defénse" without a rédiictfon of personal freedom. - Fourth, ‘there fs the ‘existence’ of {nstan-  tanéous ‘communication ‘throughout the world of every major event so that studént. riots, for  example, ‘immediately spark off others in remote .areas, Fifth - and here we are dealing  with an area in which there are still notable:differences in progress - there is the increased  leisure resulting from the growing application of technology. “Sixth, there is faster trans-  portation, Seventh, there are great chariges | in family structûré as social securitÿ programmes  relieve young people of thé ‘responsibility’ for caring for their elders during illness, ünem-  ployment, retirement and old age. Eighth, there isthe fact that the consumption of alcoholic  beverages per capita has risen sharply and a varieiy of drugs - - even thosé that are illegal -  have become readily available. Ninth - and what a significant long-term effect this may  have - the birth-control pill is now available. Tenth, there is now a ready ‘availability of  printed matter, motion pictures and television broadcasts dealing with intimate sexual re-  lations and with individual and collective violence, . Eleventh, young people have become  disillusioned with the standards and morals of the older generation, or perhaps the failure  of the older generation to live up to its own professed standards. Twelfth, churches and  religious organizations have been declining in influence as society has become more and  more secular, Thirteenth, there is a new awareness of poverty and of the wretched state  of many of the world's people, ah awareness which reflects the first hope that it may be  possible in the long run to eliminate poverty. And, finally, there are our fantastic explora-  tions into space, mankind's boldest step into the unknown.
10.6 These are some of the facts of life, Never before to myknowledge have so many major  developments affecting every human being taken place in so short’a time span. No wonder  the peoples all over the world are disturbed; these facts of life have a great bearing on  Unesco's programme for the development of human resources. They are so cataclysmic  in the life of mankind that if Unesco had not been created when it was, through the imaginative  foresight of the best minds of the time, the actual situation today would compel the nations  of the world to establish it now. >
10.7 With our present world-wide turmoil and, fortunately, with Unesco as an instrument  to promote peacé through education, sciénce, culturé and communication, what should we  in this General Conference do at this eventful junéture in our history? Al of our efforts,  it seems to me, should have as their focal concern the development of human resources,  No nation, and not even the world as a whole, has greater resources than the potential of  its people. The development of these human resources is the basic purpose and essentially  the only justification of this great international organization. Indeed, the full development  of, and respect for, every human being, regardless of race, creed, economic status or  national origin, provides us with the best perspective in which to view its activities.
10.8 Obviously I cannot, within the time at my disposal, do justice to each of the toples  suggested for this debate, all but one ôf which, I might add, have a direct bearing on the  development of human resources, I shall, therefore, limit my remarks to citing five draft  resolutions on the future programme which have been submitted by my delegation and to  commenting very briefly on each of our programme discussion topics. These draft resolu-  tions are contained in documents 15 C/DR/FUT. 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, and reflect the views of  my government and of our National Commission on the course this Organization should follow  in education, the natural sciences, the social sciences, culture and communication.
10,9. These draft resolutions look at Unesco problems in programming. “Our debate here  deals with the same issues but from a different point of view, riamely that of establishing  broad policies, .I will, therefore, restate here, very briefly, the views of my delegation  on the six topics proposed in addition to the broad one on human resources, :
10.10" The ‘United States of ‘America fully supports: long-term planning in Unesco asin the  other organizations of the United Nations family.. We recognize that long-terii’ planning is  already inherent in the Unesco programme in a general way. We also recognize that Unesco's  activities are complex and that future needs are difficult to project. - At the same time, we  believe that long-term planning should be more formalized and we applaud the recent state-  ment by the Director-General concerning his willingness to embarkon a six- year projection  of Unesco's activities, as recommended by the Executive Board,
10, 11 With respect to youth, our concern is best illustrated by the annual meeting of our  National Commission at Hertford, . Connecticut, ‘just one year ago, which was devoted wholly  to youth. In the work of both our National Commission and Unesco, we emphasize ‘three  themes, First, we must continue to stress activities which are.of particular importance to  those who will follow us, Who, more than our youngpeople, are affectedby our programmes  in such areas as educational planning, preservation of the cultural heritage of mankind,  oceanography or the prevention of further degradation of the biosphere? Second, we must  draw young persons as much as possible into the everyday work of Unesco. Above all, they  must ‘have a rôle in the planning of policies for education, science, culture and communica-  tion, for whatever we decide will affect them greatly. Finally, we must, in both the edu-  cation and social science programmes, give serious attention to the problems which under-  lle recent youthful unrest.
10.12 In regard to science policy and cultural policy, we expect ‘Unesco to continue to be  an invaluable instrument for the exchange of information and for technical assistance.
10.13 Many statements have been made previously by United States spokesmen in this Or-  ganization regarding the urgent need to strengthen Unesco's programme in the social sciences.  I need hardly add to these except to emphasize the great need for bringing the Organization  up to date with developments in this important area and for undertaking new, efforts in the  application of the social sciences to the problems of economic and social development, to  our rapidly growing cities and to global problems like population growth and degradation of  the human environment. ‘
10,14 Communication and documentation are, of course, basic functions of this great fôrum  and intellectual clearing house, Unesco. We need a strong communication sector not only  to deal with mass communications in themselves, but also to provide support for our edu-  cation, science and culture sectors. We also hope that continuing progress can be made in  fostering the free flow of information and in improving Unesco's capabilities in documenta-  tion and statistics.
10,15 We need not,- and we should not, be discouraged about what we cañ'do, in Unesco and  through Unesco, to cope with the very difficult problems I have mentionedi: Our task is to  develop human resources, to convert what have been reférred to as tht faceless masses"  into enlightened, productive, creative and free human beings. we need better educated hu-  mans, more scientifically trained humans, more cultured and creative humans, nore sensi-  tive humans and better informed and more communicative humans, * In developing these hü-  man resources, nations can mobilize more of their resources, material as well &s human,  to strengthen Unesco through the work of their National Commissions. We are actively do-  ing this in the United States of America. Our National Commission includes representatives  from 60 non-governmental organizations with a total membérship of 60 million people, almost  a third of our total population and the majority of our adult population. We are tryingto take  steps now to make all of these people more aware of what Unesco is doing in order that they  may understand the Organization's programme better and À support {t more fully. :
629   XXI Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
10. 16 In conclusion, I should like to re-emphasize a point I meéhtioned ‘earlier, ‘namely,  that the problem of hurhan development is a global problem." Some of thé smallest and poorest  Member States have made glorious contributions to learning, art and science, ' Or the other  hand, my own country, in terms of its potential, must still be regarded as a ""develop-  ing country", The problem of development is a continuum, evenif every Member State finds  itself in a different relative position in education, science, culture and communication. The  process of development can be agonizingly slow but we have reason to be encouraged, Can  anyone here imagine an intergovernmental meeting in, say, 1918 or even 1938, serlously  discussing the problem of global development "from the point of view of man and the develop-  ment of human resources''?
10.17 The great human ideals aïe clearly imprinted iri Unesco's Constitution. If we can  live up to them, strive through our programme to achieve them more fully, if we can gain  true understanding among nations and recognize that in our diversity we can gain global  strength, if we will respect one another through our common efforts to make the world a  better place in which to live, the great wave of social change in which we are now engulfed  will no doubt lift all mankind to not only a decent but a more glorious life. That, at least,  is our hope. ‘
11. Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie le chef de là délégation des Etats- Unis d'Amérique et je donne la parole  à S. Exc, M, Benjamin Ngoubou, ministre de l'éducation nationale et du service civique,  chef de la délégation du Gabon.
12.1 M, NGOUBOU (Gabon). -  Monsieur le Président, au nom de la délégation du Gabon et en mon nom propre, je  veux tout d'abord vous dire combien votre élection nous a comblés d'honneur et de fierté.
12.2 Nous voyons volontiers dans cette unanimité qui s'est faite autour de votre candida-  ture,la reconnaissañce éclatante du dynamisme de nos jeunes Etats, auxquels il appartient  d'apporter un sang notiveau à la société internationale et de contribuer ainsi à l'instaura-  tion de la paix, de ia justice et du respect'des droits fondamentaux dé'la personne humaine  Nous sommes convaincus, Monsieur le Président, que, grâée à cette élévation de pensée  et à cette noblesse de coeur que chacun à reconnues en vous, nos débats auront un cachet  spécial et se situeront à un niveau particulièrement digne d'éloges, C'est vous dire com-  bien nous nous félicitons de votre élection,
12.3 Qu'il me soit permis dé transmettre à cette assemblée les voeux que le président  de la République gabonaise, S, Exc, M, Albert Bernard Bongo, souhaite lui adresser; pour  le succès et la réussite de ses travaux ; nos voeux vont aussi - est-il besoin de le souli-  gner ? - à M. René Maheu, directeur général de nôtre Organisation, dontles éminentes  qualités intellectuelles et morales suscitent cette admiration générale à laquelle il doit  d'avoir vu renouveler son mandat pour six ans,
12,4 Que M. le Directeur général sache bien que la République gabonaise, que nous avons  l'honneur de représenter ici, se félicite des relations qui existent entre elle-même et  l'Unesco et apprécie pleinement l'aide reçue de cette Organisation,
12.5 L'éducation, la formation des.cadres et le développement culturel sont en effet au  premier plan des préoécupations du Gabon depuis que S. Exc, M. Albert Bernard Bongo a  dignement succédé, il y aura bientôt un an, au père de notre indépendance, le regretté  présidnnt Léon Mba, Ce jeune chef d'Etat a su imprimer à la nation gabonaise un dyna-  misme nouveau dans la lutte contre le sous-développement ; il a mis au premier plan de  ses préoccupations l'extension et l'amélioration de l'enseignement'à ses divers degrés,  ainsi que l'accélération de la formation des élites et des cadres, Il estime que les inves-  tissements. dans le domaine de l'éducation nationale doivent être aussi élevés que possible  et qu'ils présentent la plus grande urgence,
12.6 Il est toutefois évident que nos investissements en argent et-en hommes ne peuvent  pas - en raison de nos ressources limitées - être aussi importants qu'il le faudrait pour ’  répondre aux exigences de notre programme. Les objectifs que nous nous sommes fixés  ne pourront être atteints que si les pays relativement riches accordent des bourses à nos  jeunes étudiants et si nous faisons appel à un nombre important de profésseurs étrangers.  L'efficacité de l'aide au développement, dont l'Unesco est devenue en quelques années  l'agent le plus actif; dépendra essentiellement de l'aide apportée à l'éducation et à la for-  mation professionnelle, :
12,7 Mon propos, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, est de vous exposer en toute sim-  plicité sous quelles formes nous nous attachons à promouvoir, dans le domaine de l'éduca-  tion et de la culture, une politique de progrès que nous voulons à la fois hardie et harmonieuse.
12,8 Notre action culturelle et éducative présente pour le moment des éléments positifs,  mais aussi des lacunes et des insuffisances auxquelles nous désirons remédier au plus vite,  grâce au concours de nombreux pays amis et des institutions internationales compétentes,  au premier rang desquelles nous plaçons l'Unesco.
12.9 Je me permettrai doné de vous rappeler quelles sont, enmatière scolaire et éducative,  les lignes directrices de notre action, afin que vous puissiez saisir la gravité des pro-  blèmes qui se posent à nous et l'urgence des solutions à y apporter.
12.10 La politique gabonaise dans le domaine qui nous intéresse vise d'abord l'action sco-  laire et ensuite l'éducation populaire.
12.11 En matière scolaire, cette politique s'affirme à trois niveaux : au niveau de l'en-  seignement primaire, au niveau de l'enseignement secondaire et technique, enfin auniveau  de l'enseignement supérieur,
12.12 En vertu d'une loi du 9 août 1966, le Gouvernement du Gabon garantit désormais  aux enfants un enseignement gratuit et obligatoire jusqu'à l'âge'de 16 ans. Grâce à cette  mesure, le nombre des écolés est passé de 627 pour l'année scolaire 1966-1967 à 647  pour l'année scolaire 1967-1968 ; dans le même temps, lé nombre des élèves est passé  de 81. 125 à 85, 328, ce qui réprésente un accroissement de l'ordre de 4,5 %. Depuis la  rentrée des classes, l'effectif est d'environ 93, 000 élèves, ce qui marque une augmenta-  tion de près de 10 % par rapport à l'an dernièr:
12,13 Devant cet accroissement des effectifs, l'Etat a entrepris un vaste effort pour la  construction de locaux ; én même temps, la formation des maîtres a été accélérée. En’
1967, le nombre moyen d'élèves par maître a été de 41, alors qu'il était dé 44 en 1963,  D'autre part, la qualité du personnél enseignant ‘a été ‘améliorée : tout instituteur doit  maintenant posséder au minimum un brevet d'éfudes du premier cycle de l'enseignement  secondaire ; quant aux institüteurs principaux, ils doivent, à la sortie de l'école normale,  obtenir le baccalauréat de l‘enseignement secondaire, Un'effort particulier a été fait pour  doter les écoles primaires du matériel et des fournitures nécessaires, et un généreux don  de livres scolaires a été reçu de la Mission culturelle française.
12,14 Nous pouvons dire que les efforts déployés par le Gouvernement au niveau de l'en-  seignement primaire se sont poursuivis au niveau de l'enseignement secondaire et profes-  sionnel. En effet, notré pays comptait, .en 1967-1968, 23 collèges d'enseignement général  ayant un effectif total de 2. 635 élèves (ce qui représente un accroissement de près de 4,2%  par rapport à l'année précédente) et 10 collèges classiques ou modernes - dont un lycée -  totalisant ensemble 2, 674 élèves (soit 8,3 % de plus qu'en 1966-1967).
12,15 En somme, pour les deux cycles de l'enseignement secondaire, le nombre des élèves,  qui était de 5. 309 l'année dernière, est passé à 6. 400 pour l'année scolaire 1968-1969.
631   XXII .« Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
12,16 -Le nombre d'élèves reçus au BEPC augmente d'environ 100 par an; ce qui nécessite  la transformation de collèges modernes en lycées - d'où des problèmes de locaux et de per-  sonnel enseignant.
12,17 Ence qui concerne l'enseignement technique, signalons d'abord l'existence de centres  d'apprentissage, au nombre de )2, dont le programme est axé, à une exception près, - sur  l'enseignement de la menuiserie, Le placement des élèves s'avère difficile, leur formation  ne répondant pas aux besoins locaux, et l'on voit ainsi apparaître la nécessité de diversifier  ces centres ; là encore, se posent des problèmes de financement, de personnel et de moyens.
12.18 Aux centres'én question font d'ailleurs concurrence’ des colièges d'enseignement tech-  nique, ‘ Ceux-ci, al nombre de 4, sont, en général, médiocrement outillés : én gros, ces  établisséments dispensent un enseignement qui porte sur là mécanique générale, là serru-  rerie et l'électricité,  +l
12, 19 - Aces collèges d'enseignement technique s'ajoutent, d'une part, 3 collèges d'arts  ménagers, dont 2 ont été organisés avec l'aide de la FAO, d'autre part et surtout, un ly-  cée technique.
12,20 Dans ce lycée technique, situé à Libreville, l'enseignement est divisé en deux cycles, .  dont le premier est sanctionné, .par le brevet. d'enseignement industriel ou commercial, tan-  dis que le second prépare au baccalauréat technique et économique. Au total, cet établisse-  ment compte 494 élèves, Nous dévons indiquer que sa construction a été financée par le  Fonds européen de développement et par le Fonds d'aide et de coopération, auquel on doit  en outre la construction, à Port-Gentil, d'une école pratique commerciale.
12, 21 Au niveau de l'enseignement supérieur, enfin, nous citerons : l'Institut d'études fo-  restières du Cap Esterlas; chargé de la formation des cadres supérieurs des eaux et’ fo-  rêts ; l'Institut universitaire de technologie, qui forme les techniciens du bâtiraent ; l'Ecole  gabonaise d'administration, chargée de la formation des cadres de l'administration finän-  cière et judiciaire, et l'Institut d'études juridiques.
12, 22 ‘Tels sont les trois prinolpaux. aspects de la politique scolaire du Gouvernement ga-  bonais. Les responsables de cette politique savent cependant qu'il ne suffit pas de rendre  les études obligatoires pendant urie période de la vie de chaque individu pour qu'il en ré-  sulte un développement général du pays. L'éduçation est en effet un processus permanent,  qui doit se poursuivre à travers toutes les étapes de la vie, grâce à une tension perpétuelle  dont doit être constamment animé l'individu. C'est pourquoi le Gouvernement gabonais a  créé un service d'éducation populaire.
12,23" L'¢ducation populaire ‘eat’ assurée au Gabon | par tout un ensemble dé môyens, dont  la radio,’ la télévision, les bibliothèques et les ‘centrés d'écoute et d'alphabétisation. En
1967, 156 émissions radiodiffusées, de i6 ‘minutes chacune, ont traité de, thèmes touchant  à l'hygiène, ‘à 1 agriculture,’ aucivisime, ‘au ‘travail, à l'éducation, à la ‘scolarité ; cetra-  vail doit être intensifié, car ‘sa portée est immense, La télévision éstutilisée, quant à elle,  dans des "cases d'écoute" » qui, pour l'instant, ne se trouvent que dans deux villes : Libre-  ville et Port-Gentii, Ces cases d'écouté sont d'aitieurs de véritables centres culturels com-  portant une bibliothèque, L'an dernier, elles ont prêté 6,000 volumes,
12,24 La campagne d'alphabétisation a touché cette année 1,576 adultes répartis entre 54  centres, Elle est'confiée à des lhstitüteuré. - Trois groupes (ceux dé Libreville; ‘de Port-  Gentil ét de ld zone Francevillé-Moanda) ‘ dofvént étre constitiiés prothathément pour s'ôceu-  per dé l'alphabétisation "fonctionnelle" d'adultes de 15 à 35 ‘ans, ‘Aussi a-t-oñ lancé une  enquête qui;' portant sur 1: 100 personnes, devrait permettre de miéux connaître la popu-  lation a instruire et de ¢erner de plus près le contenii à donner à l'enseignement. Le dé-  pouillement des résultats de cette enquête sera achevé d'ici trois mois.
12.25 L'action que nous venons de vous décrire, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, est  celle que mènent les pouvoirs publics ; elle est complétée par celle de divers mouvements
632   Sesiones plenarias /Mrexapuue sacedansa XXII  relevant des autorités religieuses (comme les "Volontaires ‘du progrès") et par celle de  chefs d'entreprises qui’colläborént‘de plus en plus directement et efficacement avec ‘nous,  Mais tout ce travail n l'aurait pu s'accomplir ni aussi vite/ni aussi bien sans l'assistance  de l'Unesco, qui nous a'envoyé deux experts chargés de nous'aider de lours conseils ; un  expert du Service français de la coopération est également présent auprès de nous, ‘ Nous  pensons avoir, par l'ampleur de nos efforts, mérité d'obtenir ce troisième spécialiste de  l'éducation des adultes qué nous a promis l'Unesco et qué nous serions heureux de pouvoir  accueillir procheinement.
12, 26° Quoi qu'il en goit,- nous ; pensoris, ‘A la duite de“ ce répidé examen de. notre action scolaire,  et éducative, pouvoir formuler trois brèvés-rémarqueë { d'abord, il se pose pour nous un pro-  blème d'hommes : quel que soit le volume de l'aide bilatérale ou multilatérale que nous pour-  rons recevolr, il est nécessaire que notre pays se doté, eri Matière de culture ét d'éducation,  d'une infrastructure solide, capable ‘de faire fructifier aide’ reçue. ‘Cette infrastructure’  doit être formée dé cherchéurs êt de‘savants autoctitones’ aptes à ‘énidevoir, pour nôtre  pays, des solutions conformes à la fois aux exigences du progrès’ et'au génie particulier’  de notre société. C'est dire, Monsieur le Président, que l'attribution de bourses de re-  cherches a nos jeunes étudiants est dé nature à réporidre’ chez nous a uh besoin vital, qui  mérite de rêtenir particultèrement l'attention de l'Unesco, Deuxième remar ue : par Tap-  port à nos begoins qui sont immniehses, les moyens que nous’ ‘péssédons en ‘propre sont plus  qu'insignifiaiits. Nous pensons qu'en cetté matiére, comme ailleurs, l'aide doit être accrue.  Troisième remarque : le contenu ‘de notre enseignement a besoin d'être” adapté aux condi-  tions de notre société, les pr ogrammes scolaires doivent s'enraciner dans les profondeurs  de notre pays. A cet égard, nous pensons que les experts fournis par l'Unesco nous'seront  d'un immense secours,
12.27 Qu'il me soit permis, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, de formuler en termi-  nant un certain nombre de voeux.
12.28 Bien que l'éducation et la formation dés femmés soient depuis longtemps inscrités  aux programmes d'action des pays en vole de développement, nous dèvons constater, en  ce qui nous concerne, que nous avons à ‘cet égard vn retard éolisidérable, Or, il n'est pas  douteux que, pour être profonde, l'évolution soclale d'un pays doit se faire avec le con-  cours de la femme, ‘C'est dire que nous lançons un vibrant appel à tous ceux qui pour-  raient nous aider à assurer la promotion de là femme dans notre pays.
12,29 D'autre part, il est, nous semble-t-il, impérieusement nécessaire que nous opérions  en matière scolaire une certaine planification et une certaine intégration, Il'ne nous sert  à rien d'avoir’ lé taux de scolarisatiori le plus élevé d'Afrique, si nous devons continuer’ À  nous heurter ‘au douloureux problème des déperditions d'effectifs’ scolaires ; là encore nous  pensons que les spécialistes de ces problèmes nous aideront à trouver les formes et les mo-  dalités de l'intégration souhaitable.
12,30 Enfin, nous souhaitohs qu'une éoordiriaiton | permanente soit ‘établie à l'échelle régio-  nalé én ce qui concérné'la lutte contre l'analphabétisme, afin qu'il n'y alt pas de discordance  dans les résultats obtenus - ce qui riaquerait - de limiter considérablement la portée de  l'action entreprise.  CRE 2
12, 31 Teté nous paraissent être, Mesdaiies,: Messieurs les détégiés,- les points" prints  paux sur lesquels nous devrons porter notre attention dans les anfides à venir. Nous ne  nous dissimulons pas les obstacles qu'il nous faudra Vaincre, -les rétitences qu'il nous’  faudra surmonter, les résistances auxquelles nous devrons faire face. La réalisation de  ces objectifs ést ceperidant pour nous uné nécessité vitale, et c'est pourquoi nous devons  continuer à y travailler ensemble, avec toute notre foi.
13. Le PRESIDENT, = +01, ‘ cn  Je remercie le chef de la délégation du Gabon et je donne 1aparoleds. Exe, M. Erskine  Sandiford; ‘ministre de-l'éducation de la Barbadé, ét premier délégué de la Barbade à prendre  la parole à la tribune de la Conférence générale, 'Je suis heureux de l'an féliciter. -
633   XXII Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
14,1 Mr,- -SANDIFORD. (Barbados); .  . Mr, President, distinguished delegates, it was on 30. November 1966 that Barbados  threw off the shackles of its colonial status and became a sovereign, independent State in  the Caribbean. Shortly thereafter, on 9 December, it was admitted as a Member State of  the United Nations, . ’
14.2. Since then, the Governimént of Barbados has been giving very close and very careful  consideration to the question of its affiliation with other international bodies, My country  has had to go into this question most carefully, for each international body places obliga-  tions upon its members, including the financial obligations of membership dues - often pay-  able in a scarce hard currency - and the costs involvedin representation at various meetings.
14, 3 As a small country of approximately 166 square miles, with a population of a quarter  of a million people (giving a density of some 1, 400 persons per square mile), and with over
80 per cent of its economy dependent upon sugar and its by-products, Barbados must keep  a close watch over expenditure,
14, 4 After, due consideration, it was deëtded to’ ‘lodge an “application for membership of  Unesco, It is a matter of pride and satisfaction for me personally and for my country ‘that  a delegation from Barbados has been admitted today to participate fully : in the work of this  august world body, It is also a source of pleasure for me and my. delegation that our intial  participation in the work'of Unesco ‘should be under your distinguished direction, Mr. President,  and that such participation should coincide with the renewal of your mandate, Mr. Director-  General, to promote programmes of peace and enlightenment which are the imperatives of  this Organization,
14.5 The task which the Government and people. of Barbados are engaged upon is the build-  ing of a just society: just in equality of opportunity, ‘Just in social relations, just in law. In  our efforts to‘attain the goals of this great enterprise we are relying üpon'our own resources  as well as upon the assistance of friendly governments and of international agencies, not  least ahiong them being the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.  We here affirm our deep belief in, and our commitmert to, the Constititon of Unesco.
14,6 We affirm that "since wars begin in the minds of men" , We are engagedin building the  defences of peace in the minds of our Barbadian citizens through the expenditure of fully
22 per cent of our resources on education and related cultural activities.
14.7 We affirm our abiding faith in "the democratic ‘principles of the dignity, équality and  mutual respect ‘of men" and accordingly a charter of human rights is enshrined in my country's  Constitution. In our multi-racial society, we abhor the doctrine of the inequality of men and  races,
14,8 We affirm our belief in “full and equal opportunities for education fôr all, in the un-  restricted pursuit of objective truth, and in the free exchange of ideas and knowledge". The  Government of Barbados endeavours to provide such full and equal opportunities through a  system of free education at the primary, secondary and university level,
14.9 Our affirmation of the principles iald down in the Constitution of this international body  will enable us to participate without reserve in the programmes of the Organization in such  areas as education, the natural and social sciences, cultural activities, mass communica-  tions and the exchange of persons. -
14,10 As an associate member, my country did not derive full benefit from this Organiza-  tion, I am hopeful, however, that even as.early ag the sixteenth session of the General  Conference in 1970, the Government and people of Barbados will be able to record their  gratitude to Unesco for the outcome of co- operative efforts with us as full members.
14. 11. We are. guided in Barbados: by the beltef that the greatest resources a- country can  possess are:lts human resources, We hold this view all the more firmly because our country
634   Sesiones plenarias /llaenaprvie adéedanua  is not lavishly endowed with natural resources. The great task which we face, and the great  challenge which we are accepting; is the development of our human resources in the interest  of national development and in the interest of the individual development of each citizen,
14.12 It is estimated that, by 1975, the population of Barbados will number 279,530, of  whom 93, 060 will be between the ages of 5 and 19, and 27, 165 between the ages of 20 and 24,  What is required now is to-plan creatively for the education and the training of youth to en-  sure that their talents and their skills are directed towards the transformation of the economy  of Barbados from a developing into a developed one, and to ensure that these talents and  these skills are utilized to prepare our youth for the responsibilities of freedom,
14,13 Let us maké no mistake about this, The taskis a difficult one; - and the road to high  individual and national achievements, steep and winding, Much rethinking and. a great deal  of innovation will be required. Already plans are underway for the establishment in Bar-  bados of the first community college in the Commonwealth Caribbean which will serve not  only as a source of supply for the university but will also produce. cadres qualified to. meet  the expanding needs of the society at the superyisory and middle management levels, In ad-  dition, this institution will have as one of its objectives the enrichment of the cultural. and  artistic life of the nation. Instruction will be offered in the six divisions of agriculture,  commerce, fine arts, liberal arts, science -and technology. : We Hope shortly to follow the  example of some of our friends in the Commonwealth Caribbean and elsewhere who have -  made provision for'vocational education of their youth. The establishment of a Trades  Training Centre will ensure that craftsmen skilled in some fifteen trades will be available  to support the drive for economic development.
14.14 The major task facing mankind today, Mr. President, is to remove poverty, ignor-  ance and disease from the face of the earth and guarantee that the many may share abundantly  in the fruits now enjoyed only by the few, Education is a key factor in this whole question  of development in order to bridge the gap between the wealthy and the poor nations.
14, 16° My government recognizes that through its various programmes Unesco has a sig-  nificant rôle to play in aiding Member States to achieve national progress through the de-  velopment of their educational systems, and we look forward to fruitful co-operation with  the Organization and its Member States, to whom we pledge our fullest support.
16, Le PRESIDENT, - . ;  Je remercie le chéf de la délégation de Barbade ét je donne la parole à Mme Otilia  de Tejeira, membre du Conseil exécutif, chef de la délégation du Panama,
637   XXI Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
(16,1) Mme de TEJEIRA (Panama).- (Traduit de l'espagnol, )!  Monsieur le Président, Monsieur le représentant du Directeur général, Messieurs les délér  gués, je serai extrêmement brève - me conformant en cela aux ‘conseils de notre Gracian-, mais  je tiens à exposer clairement deux ou trois Idées qui méritent, à mon avis, de retenir l'attention,  . Dans la mesure où elles sont intéressantes, ces idées tirent leur Intérêt du fait qu'elles corres-  pondent'à 1a mänière de voir d'un ‘pétit pays latino-américain qui représente:le type même de ceux  qui tirent directernént profit'de l'action de l'Unesco dans le monde.
(16, 2) Se rangeant parmi les prinétpaux instruments des trois grandes tâches mondiales’ entre-  prises par les Nations Unies (assurer.]a permanence de la paix; stimuler le progrès économique  et social des Hations, faire prévaloir, l'esprit de tolérance entre les hommes), 1'Unesco joue à  cet ‘égard un rôle décisif, Aliant, au cours dés ‘ans, de victoire en Victoire, ‘elle én est venue à  nous fourñir'un admirable modèle d'action internationale, en ce qui concerne notamment l'aide  que leë pays'Félätivenent aisés péuvent apporter’ aux pays moins préspères ou plus pauvres,  L'éxemple'dé l'Unesco rontre,- en vérité, que l'action la plus efficace et la plus fécoônde n'est pas  celle qui.obéit à un seul cerveau ou'à une seule volonté, mais celle qui résulte de l'heureuse col-  laboration d'intelligençes et d'esprits dans les démarches desquels intervient l'élément régulateur  que. constitue la somme d'expérience acquise, au cours d'une longue période, dans les divers pays  et régions qu monde, L'aide internationale - telle qu'elle est conçue et organisée par l'Unesco -  n'a pas seulement’ une ‘efficacité directé, immédiate et matérielle ; sa qualité essentielle réside,  j'oserät le’ dire, dans’ ‘son caractère éthique et historique, Je vais m'expliquer.  {16, 3) L'uné. des aspirations ‘des péuples du monde est de fonter la vie internationale sur la seule  base juridique’qui soit digne'des temps modernes ;.cette réelle et tangible égalité des Etats qui  peut seule permettre d'éviter les erreurs et les injustices, Or, dans les relations bilatérales,  dans l'aide apportée directement par un pays à un autre, on perçoit presque toujours de vagues  désirs d'influence ul risquent finalement de porter atteinte aux droits ou À la digiité des pays en  cause, Au contraire, l'aide internationale fournie, dans le cadre d'organisations comme l'Unesco,  par des ‘nations’ qui refigncent mémentanément à leur qualité de nations pour prendre leur partdes  larges Fébporsabilités qui incombent à l'humanité tout entière ne peut, quant à eile, être entachée  d'aucun 'égofemé ; aucun intérêt direct ou indirect; conscient ou inconscient, avoué ou non avoué  - ne peut influer sur elle, ce qui lui permet d'atteindre ses fins sans se heurter aux écueils qui,  +  en raison de la difficulté de tout dialogue entre donateurs et bénéficiaires, sont toujours à  craindre dans les relations directes.
(16. 4) ‘Matériellement plus : efficace que l’aide bilatérale et répondant mieux aux exigences  éthiques, l'assistance internationale dont je parle a en outre le mérite de éontribuer à cet épa-  nouissemént’de la pérsonnallté naitonale de chaque pays qui doit être l'une des fins essentielles  de ce > que le Directeur général à appelé "l'humanierne du développement".
(16. 5). Car le développement,’ tel que nous le concevons, implique un effort pour cultiver les qua-  lités et les vertus propres à chaque peuple, en tenant compte de l'i/atoire,. de la vocation et des  perspectives d'avenir, de ce peuple, Quand on entreprend de développer ou de mettre en valeur le  potentiel national d'un pays, il ne s'agit pas d'imiter, il ne s'agit pas d'adopter ‘purement ou sim-  plement tel où i tel snodèle étranger, L'objectlt éssigné à cet effort érienté vers le progrès doit ré-  sulter ‘d'uné observation pénétrante’ de'ce ‘qui donne at pa] 8 da réalité propre, Cela ne véut’ pas  dire qu'il faillé ge laisser sédulrfé pardes conceptions natlénalistes anachronigiies ou par le charme  dangereux dé ce qui est ‘aimiplément folklorique, Non. ‘Le but suprême doit toujours être celui qui  est proclamé dans la Charte des Nations Unies et dans l'Acte constitutif dé l'Unesco : favoriser  l'élévation de l'homme, ;avec les progrès que cela implique en matière de bien-être matériel, de  connalasance et dé culture, ¢ de justice économique et de liberté politique, Et c'est précisément  parce que c'est 14 son but que 1 oeuvre de l'Unesco, pent, mieux que tout autre, contribuer au dé-  veloppement effectif de l'hoïime, Uné éducation bien conçue ét ‘orlénfée vers les nobles fins cl-  dessus pérmettra en effet 4 1a démocratie de revêtir un caractère plus réel dans chaque pays à  mesure qile celui-cf verra s'élargir ses horizons, ef de s'aricrer toujours plus solidement dans  le mode d'existence qui’ éaractéricé ce dernier tiers du XXe slècie.
(16. 8) D'autre part, la’ nelence; telle qu' on l'enseigne et telle qu'elle est ap liquée à l'étude: de  la nature, et la technotogie, qui n'est autre chose qus l'exploitation de la scie nce dans la vie cou-  rante, permettront t6t ou tard d'apporter. des solution: aux problèmes, fondamentaux de chaque pays.  De même, les sciéhces soclales qui permettent d'éclairer les phénomènes de la vie collective, de  les interpréter et d'agir sur eux, aideront au trioraphé des droits de f'hérime ‘et cohtribiieront, par  là mêmé, ‘au bien-être général, Quant à la culture, .avec les formés gi'ellé a revetues dans chaque  pays ou région (car nous’n'avons pas affaire ici à ce que Goethe a appelé l'inévitable grisaille des  théories), elle assurera, par le renouvellement de sèves séculaires, la floraison de "l'arbre d'or  de la vie", auquel clle fera porter ses meilleurs fruits. Enfin l'information, lien entre l'homme
638   Sesiones plenarias / Hxenapuwe 3acedanua RAT  ot le monde, continuera à famillariser chaque peuple avec les problèmes ét aspirations des autres,  ce qui conduira nécessairement au progrès de la compréhension et de l'amitié Internationales,
(16.7) L'Unëaco constitue dono le mellleur Iñatrurent d ’ action qui fend à assurer la paix, le  bien-êtré linivérsol et la bonne ‘entente entre les peuples ‘; ét l'aide internationale qu'elle fournit  est certainement la plus apte à assurer la réalisation dé tels [déaux,
(16.8) Il y a un autre point que je désire aborder : {1 s'agit des services officiels qui, dana chaque  pays, sont chargés de donner effet aux recommandations et suggestions de 1'Unesco, Ces sorvices  ont tendance - pourquoi le nier ? - à considérer comme de slinples matériaux d'archives les docu-  mente de tous genres que l'Unesco leur fait périodiquement parvenir avec une régularité exemplaire,  Grave erreur, Ces documents méritent d'être examinés avec le plus grand soln, ¢ar on volt s'y  refléter l'énorme travail qui s'accomplit au sein des conférences, stages d'études et colloques que  l'Uneeco organise dans toutes les réglons du monde, Les commissions natlonales et les fonction-  naires des administrations publiques pourralent trouver dans les documents de l'Unesco une mul-  titude d'idées du plus grand intérêt, Or, 11 n'est pas rare qu'une commission nationale ou un ser-  vice gouvernemental demande à recevoir des renseignements qui, ayant trait à une questionprécé-  demment étudiée par l'Unesco, ont déjà été communiqués par celle-ci à l'organisme intéressé,
(16.9) Il faudrait d'autre part que nous arrivions à convainore nos gouvèrnements des avantages  qu'il y a à assurer la continuité des relations personnelles qui peuvent se nouer entre Jeurs repré-  sentants et ceux des divers sérvices de l'Unesco, Ce n'est pas en un jour qu'on peut connaître tous  ‘les rouages d'une organisation comme la nôtre, Aussi est-il indispensable qu'il y ait dans chaque  pays des spécialistes de l'Unesco, autrement dit des personnes qui, sachant dans chaque cas à quel  service, département ou division s'adresser, puissent régler dans le minimum de temps avec  l'Organisation toutes les questions pertinentes, Il serait également souhaitable d'envoyer à chaquo  session de la Conférence générale, en qualité de délégués auxiliaires ou de secrétaires de déléga-  tion, des jeunes gens qui pourralent ainsi se préparer, en acquérant progressivement l'expérience  nécossaire, à remplacer plus tard ceux dont la vie active touche à sa fin, sans évidemment que  cela veuille dire qu'on a l'intention d'oublier ceux qui auront consacré nombre d'années do leur vie  à l'Unesco et à res idéaux comme chefs ou spécialistes des délégations,
(16.10) Il est évident que rlen de ce que je viens de dire ne s'applique aux pays hautement déve-  toppés, où fonctionnent des ministères de l'éducation et des affaires extérieures qui ont déjà der-  rière eux une longue tradition et sont dotés de rouages administratifs efficaces, Je ne puis natu-  rellement parler que des petits pays en vole de développement, autrement dit des pays qui, pour  résoudre leurs difficiles problèmes, sont plus souvent que les autres conduits à solliciter de  l'Unesco une aide dont ils ont particulièrement besoin. De son côté, l'Unesco devrait délibéré-  ment chercher à consolider les lens de ce genre.
(16.11) Je ne saurais clore cette intervention sans dire au moins quelques niote de mon expé-  rience personnelle. J'ai eu pendant plusieurs années l'honneur de siéger au sein du Conseil exé-  cutif de l'Unesco. En écoutant les paroles autorisées de mes éminents collègues et des hauts  fonctionnaires du Secrétariat, j'y al appris bien des choses qui vont maintenant me permettre de  mieux servir mon pays. Tout au long de ces années, j'ai été témoin de l'abnégation aveclaquelle  tous Îles fonctionnaires du Secrétariat, sans distinction de grades, s'efforcent d'assurer l'heureuse  issue des projets de l'Unesco, Mais on ne saurait travailler en collaboration avec d'autres per-  sonnes sans nouer avec elles des liens d'amitié et d'affection. Je l'ai éprouvé par moi-même.  J'ai tel des amis et des collègues auxquels je garderal toujours, en quelque endroit que je me  trouve, la même affection, Je tiens à leur exprimer A tous, à exprimer au Directeur général  = que je félicite encore une fois de na réélection - et à tous ses subordonnés, jusqu'aux plus  humbles d'entre eux, les voeux que je forme pour le succès de l'Unecco.
(16.12) L'Unesco a encore beaucoup à fairè. Quand nous voyons se dérouler les terribles événe-  ments dont parlent les journaux et la télévision, quand nous constatons que le monde est encore  en prole â toutes sortes de maux qui tiennent, par exemple, à l'ignorance, à l'insécurité, à la  crainte constante de la guerre, aux massacres qui atteignent les innocents ou à la façon dont sont  violés les droits de l'homme, nous nous rendons compte que l'Unescoa encore devant elle une tâche  immense et ardue. Mais l'Unesco s'est déjà montrée capable de relever victorieusement les plus  grands défis, Puisse-t-elle, pour le bien de l'humanité, continuer à faire préuve de cette même  hardiesse jusqu'au moment où les droits et libertés de l'homme auront définitivement triomphé,
(18.13) Pour ternifäor, permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, de vous adresser les félisitations  de la délégation du Panama pour votre élection tant méritée, En tant que Latino-Américains, nous  nous réjouisgons de voir à ce poste un représentant de l'Afrique, ‘Nous connalssons, dans nos ré-  glons respectives, dés problèmes, des combats et des espoirs dont la similitude crée entre nous  des liens particulièrement étroits au sein de la grande confraternité des peuples que l'Unésco ras-  semble aujourd'hui en son sein.
639   XXI Plenary neetings/ Séances plénières
17.1 Le PRESIDENT,- - | - .  Je remercie lé chef de la délégation du Panama. La liste des délégations inscrites pour  prendre la parole ce matin se trouvant épuisée, je profite de cette occation pour adresser collectivement mes sincères félicitations à toüs les orateurs qui ont scrupuleusement res- pecté le temps de parole qui leur était imparti.
17,2 Cet après-midi, la vingt-ciiquième séance plénière sera présidée par S. Exc, M. Dowuona, chef de la délégation du Ghana, vice-président de la Conférence générale.
17.3 La séance ost levée.  The meeting rose at 12, 50 â,m, -  La séance est levée À 12 h, 60  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 12, 50