Twenty= sixth plenary meeting  “ 30 October 1968 at 3,20 p.m. - ="  President: Mr. ETEKI- MBOUMOUA (Cameroon)  tag \
30 okra6ps 1968 r,s 15 4, 20 M,  lpencenarens: D-H OTEKH- MBYMYA (KaMepyH)  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued) /DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)/  DEBATE SOBRE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién) OBCYXHEHHE BONPOCOB  OBWEH NMOJMHTHKH (npononxenne)
1,1 Le PRESIDENT. -  Mesdames,  Mensieurs, je « ‘déclare la ‘vingt- “sixième séance plénière ouverte.
1,2 Dans le cadre du ‘débat de politique générale, je donne ia parole as. “Exc, -M, Abdul  Aziz Al Bassam, chef de la délégation dé l'Irak, ‘
2.1 Mr. AL-BASSAM (iraq) (Speech delivered in Arabic. English text provided by the dele-  gation of Iraq): I sf ne  Mr: President, ladies and gentlemen, itis a great honour for me to make this. speech  on behalf of the Iraqi delegation, summarizing our Views on the general. policy of our  Organization, ! ; ! : IE …. 114
2.2 1 should ‘like first to welcome the admitésion'to membership of the Organization of thé  three States of Guyana, Lesotho and the People's  Republi¢ of Southern Yemen, : which have:  all attained independence after a long struggle and are now far advanced towards freedom  and progress,
2.3 1 fake ‘great ‘pleésure,’ Me; Président, ‘In ; songratulating you ‘on your uflantioué ‘eleé=  tion to this high office,‘ “which {8 a’'personal honour paid’ to you and to your country. for Its :  great strides on the road of progress and fulfilment,
2.4 1 also. take, great pleasure. ho congratulating Me, René Mahey, | the ‘Diréclor- ‘dénèrel,. 4  on his unanimous re-election to this most distinguished post. There’ is no doubt thathe has  merited this by his great competence, efficiency and knowledge, and by; his complete devo-  tion to the aims of the Organization, , Our confidence in the future of the Organization will.  certainly be increased when we find that he will be there to glve a lead to the. Secretariat. ,
703   XXVI1 ' Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  We know of no athét person Whose carebr 18 ‘identified so fully. with the history of this Or-  ganization at thé present stage of its existence and whose achlevements coincide so ciosely  with those of the Organization.
2.6 Now that I am “talking. to you in ‘Avablo, 1 wish to compliment you" “on the wise decision  you made at the fourteenth gession of the General Conference to include rabic among the  working languages of, the Qeganization., ‘That decision | ls’ significan nt inc de Onstrating that  Unesco is pursuing fis miséton to be universal and to embracé all himan cultures. This  needs neither stress. nor emphasig; but, I should like to mention some of the practical résulte  of that decision, ‘ A big number of Arab’ Ministers, heading’ thelr delégations to this session  reviewed the development’ of education in thelr countries ‘which Was influericed by the ‘sound  guidance of Unesco, has followed its ideals, is endeavouring to benefit from its activities  and projects, and is upheld’ by trust in it and faith'in its objectives, ‘Hencè the use of Arablo  will certainly have far- ‘reaching’ éffects in disposirig ‘publié opinion’ at all levels in Arab  countries and beyond to look on the Organization with approval and support. This matter  should, therefore, not be regarded as a purely ‘administrative one ‘but rather as a measure  capable of deepening and strengthening the Organization's programmes, backing its projects  and facilitating the diffusion of its message to hundreds of millions of minds.
2.6 I'should like to express my admiration for thé implementation of previous programmes  in certain directions, refer to some projects especially the following:
1. A number of regional conferences hèld in Viénna, Nairobi and New Delhi and the  two international conférences on Educational’ Planning and the Blosphere held in Paris and  - convened by Unesco have been distinguished by the importance of their objectives, the quality  of their documentation and the soundness of their recommendations which should be reflected  in future projects. I should also mention the Seminar on higher education in Arab countries,  held in Baghdad, and I hope that its recommendations will be implemented.  Expansion in co- operation with the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies and  the ovo otaonieg of the co-ordination in their activities, especially by the agreements con-  cluded by our Organization with the Food and Agriculture Organization and the International  Labour Organisation and its agreement with the Development Programme,
3. The success which attended the world programme to saye the monuments of Nubia  heritage of humanity. . We wish similar success to the accomplishment ¢ of similar programmes,  and in particular of that concerned with the cultural heritage and artistic’ achievements of  European civilization in Florence and Venice’ as well as thé Second Stage of Saving Nubia’  monuments and Philae temples, which is one of the treasures of the old Egyptian era.
4, We welcome the increasing tendency towards the evaluation of our Organization's  activities and the study of its projects on a regional level, either by special committees or  by’ the workers ‘of the actual projécts. ‘We also welcome the explanatory visits made by the  Director-General, the Deputy Director-General and the assistant to the Director-General.
2:7 .As for the Draft Programme and Budget for 1969-1970, we observe in the proposed  programmes an extension of the basic tendencies and principles that have been propounded  in preceding years, and a confirmation of the requirements of regularization and concentration.
2.8 The criteria adopted in setting up programmes and the increased demands of the Mém-  ber States are based on sound principles. We have noted that the priorities in the proposed  programmes related to education and natural sciences coincide with the Heéds of the devel-  oping countries,
2,9 We welcome the convening of a regional conference for the Arab countries, devotedto  technical education, in which there is still room for improvement’ in those countries.
2.10° We support. the’ new organization ‘of the natural sciénéés prograimine and believe that  it makes for coricentration’ and ‘integration, Wè also support the afterition given to the ex-  change of scientific information, to university instriction and spécially to sélentific résearch.
2.11 .:We also see’ that téchnical : ‘and: ‘technological tralhihg âre ‘of special: interest to the’ de-  veloping. countries, if Such training comprises engineering sciences and Higher agridultural  education; , There is ‘algo ‘great need for reséarch institutes for the exploitation’ of natural  resources. We’ still look forward to the completion of thé remaining stages of the project:  for the teaching of mathematics in thé Arabicountries and to the profiting by thé results of  the other projeots.for the ‘teachirig of natural sciences; we also seé the neéd for regional:  centres for the improvement: of scienceiteaching andfor the establishment ofa special centre  of this kind for the Arab countries, ro.» 550 8 4  [EX SA i} RH t $7 ni
2.12 We appreciate the régularization’ of the programmes relating to soofal éciences ‘and  culture, and the chadges made in the programmes relating to communication)’: The: pro-  grammes in these two sedtora.arg:now based on greater concentration and integration and!  constitute sound guides towards future expansion: -We also strésbithe'need for further de-  velopment in the former.sector and the importance of training technicians for. the preser-  vation of monuments, . and the establishment of regional and national déntres for this'pürpose/  We have already mentioned the need: for setting up such a centre in Iraq, - and:we- Would re-  peat here what:we have already-said aboutithe constitution of ‘an international:fund ‘for: the -  preservation of monuments, We, also feel impelled to stress our interest in projects for  the training ‘of specialists in‘ frass médid;! and linking their activities’ with the: airs ‘of edu-  cation and culture. ‘The same applies to libraries ‘hd doëlimentatior: * The’ ‘study, of con-  temporary Arab'éulture 1s'ihdeed'à'Very welcome projedt'änd we would like'to see thie Higher  Institute of Islamic Studies of the University of Baghdad: taking an“active part in this" ‘and  similar studiés’ and co- operating with the Organization in the efforts to develop these studies
2 13 Having. ‘summarized the activities of. the Organization in. the: operational and inteiléo-  tual fields, I feel that I ought now. to deal with its moral obligations, for indeed these are  the essence of its comprehensive midsion to secure respect for the prinoiples of truth and  justice, and to strengthen peace and co-operation between nations. - . .
2.14 The United Nations has declared the: year 1968 Human Rights Year and appealed for  concern with human rights, at (all ievels; . but unfortunately this year and the preceding ones  have witnessed many instances of, contempt f or human rights in Asia, ‘Africa and above all,  Palestine, in the Arab terrilories, . ; a
2.15 The:treacherous Israeli aggression: against Arab territoriés in‘June 1967 resulted in  tragedies that shock the consclencé of mankind; It aggravated the long-standing plight of -  the refugees by adding to their numbers and making their living conditions much worse; it  disrupted the educational systems, the cultural heritage and endangered the peace and the  security of the population in the occupied territories; ‘and ‘exposed them to all manner of  torture,’ intimidation,’ ‘destruction’ of dwellings: and bloédshed, ‘ fe . ;  Et 13 HA ON AYRES UE ve 2€ !
2, 16 This, question | has of ‘course its pélitical aspects’ which have. culratnated- vi the viola- ‘  tion of the. ‘United ‘Nations Charter, and the seizure of territories by aggressive’ action, All  these are matters’ already judged by- the General Assembly, while thé’ Security Council has  adopted its well-Imown resolution ori the subject ‘which Israel treats with (disregard. .  astro fy 2 ;
2. CE In this distinguished gathering we are concerned with the human aspects of the ques-  tion, and ‘specially with those which come within the competence of Unesco, namely educa-  tion,. the cultural heritage. and human rights. = - .. we ‘  … #1 Frs tuE, . LA 432 + Eu Co Ya
2, 18, The es ddcaHonal sybteni. has, Héen disrupted;.- Wi occupation ‘authorities Inferfere with  curricula and textbooks,’ for they « do not recognize, the, right of the young Palestinian, Arabs  to learn and to cherish their own culture, religion’ and values and to love their country and  know. the geographical, and historical truth about it, .. They take the view that these might be  a source of, hatred, and ignore. that their. own: repeated’ aggressions. in: irecent yeirs,: are  what really feed the fire of anger in the hearts of young and old, : an anger which is frôm  time to time reflected in genuine and spontanegus reactions which will persist until the day.  when justice is established and rights achieved. | Victory will surely be for. these ‘values;  no matter how long the time may be.
705   XXVI - Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
2, 19.The implementations of the International. Cobvention : for ;the protection : ôf Cultural  Property immediately. aftér the Isréeli. aggression was indeed .a commendable’ measure,  .and we should like. to express our appteciation of the efforts made by the Director-General  towards that- purpose, We consider that this international agreement and the machinery it  has created are: probably rather weak and ambiguous to give adequate protection to cultural  treasures like those in the holy places, especially Jerusalem, which occupy such an emin-  ent place In the hearts of hundreds of millions of different faiths throughout the world, At-  tention should particularly be paid to excavation and the appropriation of cultural treasures  in occupied territories.  Gen ~
2. 20 With" regard to civilian fe, the rights of nationals to réturn to and occupy their own  homes, ‘to retain possession of their homes. and belongings and to live in safety from the  conditions to which the inhabitants of the Israel-occupied Arab territories are exposed, I  need only recall the resolution adopted by the International Conference on Human Rights,  held in Teheran in April and May 1968, - That resolution was based on the Geneva Conven-  tion for the protection of civilians in 1949, on the resolutions of the General Assembly and.  that of the Human Rights and the resolutions of- the Special Committee of these rights.  ENT L sb 4 a.
2.2 2 i I expresses, concern i for the. violation of Human Rights in the occupied Arab territories,  occupied ‘as a result of the hostilities during ‘the aggression; draws the attention of the Israeli  freedoms: and human rights, calls on Israel to desist forthwith from acts of destroying homes  of Arab civiliang in. the occupied territories and ‘to respect and - implement the Universal  . Declaration of Human ‘Rights. Those resolutions affirm the inalienablé rights of all inhabi-  tants who have left: their homes as a result of the Israell aggression to return, resume  norinal-life, recover their properties and homes and rejoin their families, and request the  General Assembly to investigate the continuing violations of human rights in the Arab terri-  tories by the Israeli occupying authorities.
2.22 ‘That strong condemnation passed by the Teheran International Conference, ‘should  have a élear response in this General Conference of our Organization, ‘ iri' the form of a  resolution having general support among you. This will be in conformity with the hopes of  peoples everywhere that this Organization will uphold the ideals of truth, justice and peace.
2.23 I feel I should refer here, towards the close of my statement, to some of the major  trends and projects which we wish the Organization would adopt 1 in its programmes and  activities, .
2. 24 We look ‘forward’ fo the General Assembly's resolution concerning the International  Education Year in 1970 and we feel, that it would not be enough merely to arouse public in-  terest in the important’ rôle of education in the progress and development of nations during  the year, ‘The principal issues ought to be stressed, thé objectives specified and the tasks  of all public and private authorities clarified on all levels alike + national, regionalandin-  ternational. We should indeed like to see this achieved by the programmes of our Organi-  zation, not only in the education sector alone but also in the other sectors of natural, hu-  man and social sciences, culture and communication, with education at the base of their  programmes, and ‘to see’ ‘that idea is applied to thé other’ intefnätional ‘organizations,  ‘
2. 25 We also Took forward hopefully to the Second International Developmènt Decade. Some  of our hopes in the first have been disappointed. ‘The gap between the advanced and the de-  veloping' countries’ ‘has been widened by the increase of population on one side and of scien-  tific and’ technieal knowledge on the other.
2,26 ‘We consider: that education should have a clearer anda more pronitñent place in the  policies that are.to be adopted in the’Second Development’ Decade, because of the part edu-  cation plays in the use of human resources. The eéconomists themselves recognize these  as highly important inh economic development, It should also be possible to define man's  general place in economic and social development. For central to that development, its  source and its end alike.
2, 27 >We also ought to make good use’ of the important’ results attained by the- International  Conference on Educatiôrial Planning in drawing the inain strategies of development, ‘’educa-  tion and planning and in harmonizing and integrating them on'all levels - national: ‘region--  al and international, . These results ought also to be reflected in the general policy of the  Second Development Decade, the programme of the Organization, and the United Nations  Development Programme,
2. 28 On this subject, 1 think it is sufficient for me to stress the need for closer attention’.  to both quality and quantity in educational development. » Contents of courses and metliods  of teaching should be continuously improved and defined; their level should be raised and  the machinery of administration and planning should be developed and its methods improved.  The trends of democracy should be reinforced and the principle of participation should be :  put into effect.
2.29 ‘The chief way of making these trends effective in iinproving éducational éyatemis and  increasing- their efficiency is, of course,’ to devélop educational résearch. Since'éduca- °  tional systenis must forever influence-and be iniflüenced by the social; economic and Cultural  conditions of the community, promoting educational research must start on the national’  level, and the problems of education must be considered in relation to those conditions. It  would not help much at this stage to be content td borrow results of educational research  carried out in advanced countries and Impose them on national systems.
2.30 Itis indeed of great concern to us that the scope of the United Nations Development  Programme and in particular of the Special Fund should be extended to provide international  aid for educational research. We hope that this international aid will be forthconiing for °  the Educational Resedrch Centre in Baghdad University,” which the competent authorities  of the university and the Ministry of Education continually foster and support. °
2,31 Attention must be given to the problems of youth, ‘both within and dutside educational  systems, We are grateful to the’ Director-Géneral for stbessing this matter and for urging  that it should be considèréd with'ah open mind. This attention must be the’ basis of future  programmes. The differences between the younger añd thé older generationsin point of view  and attitude towards life and contemporary issues are not a matter for surprise; the human  personality develops and is influericéd by the circumstances surrounding its acquisition of  knowledge and experience. There is no doubt that the present social, political and économie  developments, and the ‘changes in the progress ‘and evolution of knowledge are bound te" a  crease these ‘differences; biit that should not lead to contradiction’ and an increasing div f-  young, their love of adventure and their eagerness to explore the unknown can be combined  with thé realism, self-control, experience and ‘wisdom 6f the older genération for the bene-  fit and advaricernent of soëtétÿ: This undérstanding and integration’ will be âchieved by ap-  plying the prinéiple ‘of participation, We welcome thé trends apparént in France and other  countries towards a ‘reform of higher éducation on this basis, and we hope that the futuré  programme of Unesco will refléct and develop them,’  i
2.32 The results of the international conference on the biosphere, stressing the proper  utilization of natural résources and the proper adaptation and reconditioning of the environ-  ment underlining the prevéntion of dangers and recurrent troubles of life; ‘and the utiliza-  tion and improvement of environment ought to be followed up and made the foundation of -  national and international Plans.
2.33 If we > realizé that developinént 1 is a comprehensive operation possessing numeious  ‘interacting factors, that ‘it is ‘dynamic and subject to erivironmental conditions, then we -  should réalize that it/pérpetually renews itself and evolves. In fact; a consideratién of the  needs expressed by the’ Meinbér Nations on Unesco during the last decade demonstrates  that these needs have changed and became more complex and of higher level. These lines  of complexity will continue: This progress should be reflected in the programme, - which
707 -   XXVI . . Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  must increase in depth and concentration; for international assistance must act as a cata-  lyst and should not supplant natlonalinctivities, ‘The importance Of this truth mustbe made  clear; this calls for more efficient administrative: and technical machinery for exeouting :  projects both at Unesco Headquartets and in the field.. Scientific and educational research  projects and their institutions demand greater specialization and experience in undertakdng  research,
2,34, There is no ‘need to stress’ the {miportange. of the. proper geographical and'réglonal .  distribution it the’ process of recruitment of officials... The right attitudes towards the soil,  cultural as well‘aé-political conditions of developing. countries should also.be considered, .  There ig, ;howeyer, .room for improvement in administrative methods in general; and for.  greater. efficiency 80 that most of the increase in the budget: should go to development of the  programmes themselves, We advocate a continuous increase in the rate of growth in the -  programmes, defining a minimum standard for that growth, We also request adoption of  planning, better co-ordination and integration of the sectors, greater flexibility for adjust-  ment to the exigencies of objective conditions in education, science and culture or in the  economic and social sphere. This should d apply to national projects and the programmes  of international organizations. TS
2. 36. In ‘closing, we take pleasure. in recalling a n expression used à by the Divector- General:  "Our Organization is sound despite international crises and the. various difficult cireum-  stances that surround us'. We deeply appreciate all he has done to bring this situation  about. - ' a] :
3, ‘Le. PRESIDENT, =". ; -  . Je remercie le chef de Ia délégation de l'ivake et je donne -la parole à S. Exe. M. Alberto  Wagner de Reyna, -membre du Conseil exécutif, chef de la délégation du Pérou, .
709   XXvi ‘ Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
711   XXVI ’ . Plenary meetings / Séancés plénières
(4.1). Mr, WAGNER bE rr pel (Translation from the Spariteh}':  Mr, President,’ as, recommended by ‘the Executive Board, Ishall deal in this ‘general debate  with one theme only, one that le certains of great Importance to Unesco: the crisis of youth and  of university education,  .. EET)
(4.2) The mére Wong of the adi shows ét we are “oÿnébritedi Gi two is reli éébjétle, two  ’ ‘major and ‘permanent ‘Problème which are today painfully inférlinked," On the drie Hand we have the  crisis of youth, “which ie in ‘évidence the world ver, but particularly" in Countries witha long civic  and edudational tradition and a solid economic structure,‘ and alec in certain developing’ regions,  especially those which have for centuries been part of the West, asisthe case with Latin'America,
(4.3) ‘On ‘the, ‘athèr hand wé have the problem : of university éducation, the current Haturé of ‘Which  does not ‘spring ‘mainly from’ internal câlsés that ia, from ‘academié ‘BOUrées, bit ‘trom réquire-  "ments pressing in from contemporary external ciréistandes. The’ problem,’ though’ dië'to dif-  ferent causes’ in the various géographie sectors and’ assuming many ‘different’ torms, applies ‘with  the ‘same intensity both to countriés’ of the third world and to many highly-devéloped States.
(4. 4) ' Although youth and university are associated and interlinked themes, ‘they’ cannevertheless  be unalysed separately in order to establish their relationship in the melting “pot of today. -
(4.5) ‘Firat, ‘the erliéls’ of géo en {s- à stage’ ti Hèman lite whieh éarint be dt chréno-  Let that, des ve ‘cannot | say w  meet des Ao and old men who are Lo baste Youth is the stage in Lite in which the vital  urge, the force that comes from biological transformation and is inspired by the unfolding ôf the  spirit in the presence of thé unknown, that attempts {o assert itself, to conquer,’ expand,’ invade,  seize and dominate, And then it finds itself thwarted by two circunistandes, In‘the first! ‘plate  outside forces, structures and systems, unwilling to let themselves be despoiled or overcome 50  easily, raise a resistance, : resort to'strätagems to turn aside the youthful impetus aiid ‘direct it  into the vold of else,’ adroitly to'aébimilate arid reduce it. But there is also an'elément which  arises from within to'slow it down and'calim it. In'thé interests of victory; precisely the instru-  ment of action must be polished and the torrent contdined.:'If we are to win,’ we sooñ'realize that  we must learn, - Youth is consequently a time of apprenticeship; like a trée, it must be prunedin  season it it is to | grow, and the vital urge needs to be regulated and channelled so 48 not'to over-  flow and be toët, / 80 au’to opén'a breach {ii the defences of vested interésts and established posi-  tions, This ‘purification and limitation, this catharsis, obscurely felt and instinctively resisted  ‘if effectiveness isto be achieved. produces a state of tension between youthful énergy dnd the  kiowledge to which it must adapt itself, that is, between ité.own experience, ‘arid even the rejec-  tion of all experience, on the one hand; and the experience of others, of the older generation or,  their traditional‘ norms, on the other, ’ '
(4, 6) Such aii aitithests ténplies : an assümption ot distance,” a separation or, touse & Greek w ord,  a "crisis", a word which also means decision, "and ‘consequently judgement. : 1 Judging; deciding  and keeping its distance, youth is in a permanent state of crisis.. The result, as a rule, is the  transformation in a greater or lesser ‘degree’ by this youthful dynamic; of the texture of its envi-  ronment and the introduction of changes in the conceptual and goctal structure of its time. But  mention must be made of two characteristics of this phenomenon: firstly, the changes are already  prefigured in the old patterns, in which although submerged, - covered over orneglected, they have  been awaiting emergence, Youth, the springtime of lite, brings about the flowing of ideas al-  ready latent and turns them into new realities Ei 31 13  : [I EMA “Fu a > CLs Li on 1°
(4.7). This same process ot fituratiation,. otbringingto light, has the result that throughhie appres  ticeship man becomes part of, and has a share in, the edifice whose structure he is changin, snging. Th  encounter’ betwéen the youth and the 1dols he wishes to demolish is not a clash but a transac  and the crisià.of youth frequently. ends in a degree of integration, a sublimation which ‘achieves the  synthesis of the old and the new. According as thrust or resistance predoniinatés in the trans-  action, the phenomenon may be likenéd to the entry of the watezs of a river into the sea, or to a
713   XXVI © Plenary mectinés/ Séances plénières  -(tellurian upheaval, :with & whole range of possibilities lying between those extremes, . Transfor-  mation will then be séèn either as evolution or as revolution, although it will always have some-  thing of both at the same time, Youth, by its essence in a permanent state of crisis, is the most  characterized agent of the march of history, as was lately pointed out in the Unesco symposium,  on Marx, 2. _
(4,8) The radical crisis ot today's youth: but today the crisis of youth sounds’ so deep, so dra-  matic a note that these general remarks are inadequate to explain it. At the pointe where it is  strongest and which need not be located geographically, the crisis does not attempt differentia-  tion leading to Integration, but emèrges as "protest", and indeed absolute protest.
(4.9) Why has contemporary youth sq drastically cut itself off from society, “thom the older gen-  erations, from the ''world'! as it ig today? . Why is the ‘'erisie!! so uncompromisingly "critical",  - 80 totally negative, at the first explosion, as to amount to nihillem - which later, ft must be ac-  knowledged, tries confusediy to assert one or another constructive postulate? Why is the crisis  a‘guif, a gulf so wide that the human voice cannot carry from one side to another, that there is  no dialogue possible?
(4,10) The reason, I would say in plain terms, is that soctety the ! world"! (with all its Incompati-  bilities) has’ moyed to an ‘extreme, . has reached a point’ that is absolute, that, is. to say separate,  in the current ériels; and that that absolute position’ is quantification, the’ ‘abaol ute rile of the  measure of ‘quantity, ‘fhis 1s both a reality ‘and a symbol. . Our society {sin a state of crisis be-  cause quantification has produced a crisis, Let me explain: today's youth is radical, because  the society against which it protests and in which it has its roots, is in a state of crisis, that is,  because man today. is in a state of crisis. .  tags.  man, as in all living things, a duality 1a ¢oncealed, which need not be nterpreted theologically or  morally as Manichaeism, since it is part of a movement towards convergence in the Supreme Be-  ing. As Anaxagoras sald long ago, the forces encountered have different functions, the own mode  of existence, and in the course of time dominate each other turn and turn about (Diels, Fragment 17).
(4. 12) According to this fragment, ‘which is rich in metaphysical intuition, we have: (a) a struggle  for mastery between two sectors of ontology; (b) victory now with one, now with the other, never  final; and (c) a battle which is as long as history itself,
(4. 13) - Taking | “the fragment of Anaxagoras as a working assumption, we shall note an underlying  antithesis in the fact of existence, which is reflected in all its vital, conceptual and spiritual mani-  festations. - It is not an easy matter to find names for.the two opposing forces, which are complex  and multiform. On one side we find sentiment, symbol, quality, liberty, instinctive knowledge  the numinous; on the other side, sentiment is opposed by utility, symbol by concept, quality by  quantity, Uberty by order, knowledge by "episteme", the numinous by the psychical ..:. to cite  only a few of the Qualities which go in pairs without any axial connotation whatsoever. ‘
(4.14) “The history. of acts and tdeas shows. us two things: first, hat » man has a need for equili-  -brium, or at least for a reasonable balance between the two sectors for the affirmation of his  humanity, and second, - that each human belrig tries to make himself the. master of others, rarely  by simple elimination, but in more subtle ways, especially by interpreting one’ element as an as-  pect of its opposiie, This underlying connexion between opposites, the "palantropos harmonia"  as Heraclitus terms it, and which he symbolizes by fire, is as flexible arid malleable as a flame,  But its possibilities have their Mmits. When an extreme becomes absolute master, there occurs  a separation,. a break, in which the last remnants of the vanquished "protest against assimila-  tion, and the situation turns to crists, such as the one in which we find ourselves today.
(4. 15) What kind of crisis is ie Political, ‘economic, social? Yes, undoubtedly, but something  else as well: the crisis is metaphysical,
(4. 16) A metaphysical crisis because of the absolute dominance of quantity. To Muetrate my  argument let me select a single pair of opposites, quantity and quality, wh ch I canuse as examples  to verify my hypothesis, bearing in mind that in the other contexts there arise consquential - or  at least complementary - phenomena of such a nature as to point to a parallel type of evolution,  a. 17) Quality and quantity are related categories, inhabiting the same dimensions. They are not  opposites; and yet, throughout history and in the achievements of human thought we see them as  rivals, each striving to vanquish the other,
714   XXVI  ality in numbers, which are exprègélons ‘of  that things make for their natural locus, go that àn degendiiig pà  different from a descending movement = of.earth;,. The transposition of     Bises  re FRE TE SE ee A SLT! IF Tes
(4.19) Dual meaning of the supremacy of quantity: , the supremacy of quantity in conceptual de-  termination-and consequently in all that is rational and rationalized, has a mysterious and deep-  lying relationship with the real increment of quantity. . Astronomical distances'are constantly in-  creasing, as are speed and the fragmentation of particles; the earth has more inhabitants as the  population explosion develops; . there are ever-increasing quantities of products, necessities,  money, goods, etc. The absolutism of quantity runs parallel with the magnification of quantities,  quantification with mass; oddly enough, human quantity is now expressed as though it were ma-  terial quaritity, that is, human beings aré referred to as ''the masses", ol ’
(4.20) ‘The Achumanization of man and the humanization of matter: our society of consumption  and productivity, which makes irresistibly for more and better production and consumption and a  general increase in the volume of goods, is the outward sign of the absolute supremacy of quanity.  Only so can it continue to exist, independently of man, and justify its existence. Quantitybecomes  “ an end in itself, ‘
(4:21) Quantification, organization, automation are thus today the borders of our realities: what  were once the servants of man haye bound him to their service; they have taken the place of man;  they have become "humanized" within their cold inhumanity, whereas man, today reduced to the  rank of ''the public", "human capital”, an economic resource or factor, loses the essential attri-  butes of his humanity. Existence is determined by equations and dissolves in statistics, formulae  and graphs, As a result, the equilibrium is destroyed and crisis ensues, ' ’
(4.22) The revolt of quality: In défénce of the rights of quality, youth révolts and turns away" -  from this quantitative society, - Not that the réaction 1 as simple as all that,; For the time being,  the defence of quality is riot consciously conducted; ihut the desire to be different from the millions  of men.cut in the same cloth.who form our society. {oday (whether capitalist or socialist); by lead-  ing a scandalous existence or wéaring extravagent clothes, etc,,-is a way of affirming Quality:  against quantity, and personality against conformity. Equally sq is the iconoclastic fury. against  all that le organized, ‘against a State which exists to satlsty a soclety of consumer, Inthe sécond  "place this demand, which I shail call metaphysical, le accompaniedby others of ni academic) pro-  fessional, soclal, ‘etc. , nature, Thirdly, the protesters use the verbal andideologi¢al vocabulary  they find to hand, although {t may néf exactly answer thelr purpose. ” The yôcabulary is one that  has alréady been used in the protests of earller generations and hae served as a background to  present-day society, It is not exactly its concepts that the protesters adopt, but its pathos, its  polemical Intention, Behind the ''verbalism' - which is frequently quantitative - lies the rejec-  tion of intégral quantification. A Co a
(4.23) Finally,’ tn hddttion 16 all this; there exists d'désire"to be Inéegrated in thé concephial and  soclal structure and the protest 1s then directed ‘against the barriérs set up by an efficient organi-  zatlon to defend {self against its. own dissolution, The facilitation of examinations and of the, ex-  ercise of professions, the simplification of teaching, breaking-up thé hierarchical framework,  efc., are all phenomena which we can see very clearly both in thé major countries and in he de-  veloping regions. But then, participation is asked for. Participating" is an integrating elément,  the "organ'' in which it occurs is an instrument or medium; the act of participating does not pre- .  define the proportidn which may logically emerge as one half or one ten-thousandth part. Bufthe  participation demanded is thé opposite of the existing organization and moves ih a direction con-  trary to quantification. ’ fo ETRE 0 PT
715   XXVI ~~. . Plenary meetings /Séances pléiiéres
(4, 24) The phenomenon of protest which we are row witnessing has only just begun, and I feel  ‘that nothing can be achieved by methods identified with what ie being challenged, that 15 to sdy,  by quantification and organization, by looking fon solutions in ‘structures even more complex,’  intelligible only to computers.: What is needed le a qualitative form of programming.  Aa 10 ca EC ED EF n°527 5 dd ;  deuil a: ta. 25) i vntyéraitÿ' Education’ “hid ‘Ts’the LE ‘Whips trie nem of Youth '‘plerces’ the érstibrigea  social structure, ‘it 18 thé targét of the’ spearhead, ‘although not {tg finial objéctive.. ‘IE 18 simply  “the ‘Place ‘at ‘which thé ‘breach is to be’ bpenéd; - obviously 80, sihée 1€ 46 Ébove all in the uniyersi-  ties that youth betoïfies involved with ‘establishèd weigh It's here'that the orlsis of youth’ and  ©" the crisis of society become one’ ‘and the” dariie} where, t you Uke,’ the crises overlaj P, ‘and’ ‘the  breach'grows wider and ‘wider,’ And it is to that bréach ‘that we ‘must turn our attentiofi cit Unésco  de te be the’ cohéclencé-béarer of mankind In thie matter of eduction, ‘Bctenéé and culture,     i      “(4. 26) “geil! fas] = ‘Ynesco oid a Antoni tha cap hires’ oe gigi 5 signi-  cance of contemporary events : points the y Way to He nr of a So blenis, . Bu i ‘fn ad-  ! dition to this task’ va diet ‘Intér préting 9 éd encouragin ting, date problémé in  ‘focus, ot integrating the young ‘and iteeptiny Yesponsibilities NE wah rh the ‘changing ‘society to  which it belongs, it can, in {ts various programmes, accumulate the ingredients needed to build  the world of the fiitüre: “These'ingrédiènts are’ aome of the themes which éccu py a sécondary but  niôt‘fôr that reason ‘irrelbvant," ‘placé; ‘gifice’ they are predidety t those fron’ hn the’ rhovemiet of  protest started off: I inight Fefer to thern ‘4° ''qualitative thémes"; ‘many ôf them are to be’ found  . in thé four furidanientäl chapters '6f Part iL of dur draft programme and budget. As for’ othéré, of  ‘obvious importance; it would be’ advisablé to ‘approach them one day from‘a't hon- quantitative angle.     suish
(4.27) To quite à few ékamples: qu problem + dt'an fi as “apps to ‘something on- “public” -a  problem which belongs to cultüre; cofimiunication and 1ite- “long” education - "could be ‘attacked from  the angle of responsibility for guidéd action; the problem of population from the angle of freedom  and spirit; ‘that of development nét'as mere’ integration {ri a consuimersi Society but as awareness  of human values," naturally Including the quantifiable values of production’ hnd the standard ôfltving.  Scientific research ‘oh the brain and non-quantitative logic wéûld aldo be Intéresting ‘and opportune.  The’ protection of the cultural heritège, untransferable but shared by dll, is an’ affirmation’ of hu-  man values. It is of vital importance to Unesco that it should fight to save culfiirés which, alive  only in their vulnerable human carriers in Africa, Asia and America, are succumbing to the at-  tacks of an ill-conceived form of progress. It would be a helpful céntribution to put things back  in their rightful place, and give more importance to the spirit than to the secondary factor of the  letter. '  " (4. 38) vital hitinada and p gcd!” ‘We ‘can now sée' rièto We have | béen brolight By alii, ima-  gined by mankdnd as ry good falty-who, with a Wave of her’ maglé wand, would Faigé palaces and bring  forth a whole dream-world ‘of happiness, security and comfort, The dreams have indeed come,  accompanied by atomic bombs; and thé mechanical brains are no lénger ‘content to’ play” chèss  with marble pawns, like the automata of earlier timés, but néw calculate lethal orbits:!' Perhaps,  as in tales for children, ‘the fairy wag really a witch in ‘disguise, or ‘ratheF; the gorcérer's ap-  : Prentice who does not Know the spélivord which stops the broom from sweeping au before it  a. 29)" The ‘ebisf hie ET Boll bh oti ind Ghtverst édu atlôn Ban brel Lt dde ‘upon  © thé ve pero F ad-al) ‘61. Unesch, 7 Which is  pek ys li ‘ona  Hünien de : to  be ach: ved only roles récour rt ry hoge’ lorient ae fe mine Man's own’ pian ity, té ‘that  … huihdnigm’ id which Sioa 1 térature | points th Kay, but on whi GH it 18 noi dépeñidènt, Hdfiañlem  ‘le dn ‘appeal tô the oH st “achie éVements o of mankin he Yo, 8             drawing ns ration rom hi uman’ eüitüre with-  “ gut ‘distinction, Ay ‘them ÿ thin the reich i al,’ The deferités ‘of péace must bé buitt in: the  minds" of then 1 wonder ‘whe! bai these’ defences’ should ‘perhaps he’ poe “abhiegation and open-  heartédness, beauty, ‘symbolism,’ émotion)’ liberty édd quality?" ‘l'Yonder whbther ‘those mendi-  cant women who stretch out their hands to us in the Place de Fontendy and té whom wè are aécus-  tomed to give every two years - for the love of God - a few thousand dollars from our marvellous  ‘ blue book, ave not Pertiepé fairy | ringers of peace? -  Na RE - Da
4 30) Uitortuiately they" are not fairies; but the ord esééntill needs of mankind, . mokt ur-  “gént necessities of man, which only t the prosiniptiods colour- -blifidness of Number hides from our  ‘eyes. g  nr 8° sut gd 8 - 2» ,.. 204 UT 5 to.
5. Lé PRESIDENT, - toe  ‘Je remercie le chit de la aénkgetion du Pérou et 36 dorine la parole À à 8, Exc, M. Hector  Aristy, chef de la délégation de la République dominicaine,
(6.1). Mr. ARISTY (Dominican Republic) (Translated from the Spanish); a.  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I, should like, to begin by expressing to you, } Me Presi-  dent, our moat sincere congratulations on your ‘election to the highest post at this fifteenth ‘session  of Unesco's General Conference. The honour paid to your continent is one in.which we partake  fully through Africa!s contribution in tragedy and culture to the formation of various Latin Ameri-  can ‘countries, . a heritage which is still hesitatingly pointing the way ‘to co- ‘operation between our  continents.  - AS a PL Fo
(6.2) Fellow delegates my country's delegation wanted to. take partinthis general debate. because  it- knows that it is here, in Unesco, ; the. catalyzer. of man's conscience, .that cultures are trans-  formëd into a dialogue.of universal import, ."on the march to a planetary. civilization" , as the  Director-General would say. The truth is, that if Unesco were not "the infrastructure of all co-  existence and development', the world in its present state of crisis would, as it were, be ampu-  tuted of a new form of action and thought.  . x ‘ . N + - + , FEI NEE HUES à 0 Gos dora ral 24 fi {of de
(6.3) We are ribW almost on the. threshold of ‘the Second Development Decade of the. United Nations,  and for the cguntries’ of the Third ‘World the tnéreasing disappointments are strung out liké grave-  stones along a road of bitter recollections such as Geneva and New Delhi, or the striving for an  effective’ commitméht oii the part of the ‘developed ‘countries in regard to that 1% ot thei national  revenuds térinärked tor aid that seems to be constantly postpondd to the Greek calends::*I should  like to appéal from this platform; as has been donê inéreasingly in other places and-ir other in-  ternational conferences, ‘and to ask the iuidustrialized countries to accept with good grace: such  disturbance as would result for them from such a plédge of ald to the Third World. Only if that  is done shall we not be once more obliged, at the end of the Second Decade in 1978, to repeat what  is being said today, but by then buried under millions of speeches and documents. with ‘éridiess re-  petitions of the word "development"; while mén, ‘waiting on three Continents for. the Word to be  made culture, will’ still be hoping for the promotion and development of hil own human resources.  Là 3 nu. LOUE TE A
(6. a) only’ it thts* 1 is 'torthtialng in ‘thé form of ald for develSpaent ‘of all typés’ thoughout the  " Third World, will thé présent | situation cease to be what it was already in thé’ Nineteenth ¢éntury,  when ‘Huiiboldt referred to Latin America as "a beggar seated on a mountain of géld'. :
719 -   XXVI ‘ Plenary meetings /Séances plénières  . (6.5) I also think that orig, of the coi:tributions of all Member States in the. Second Decade could, :  » be a thorgugh study, , within the framework of Unesco, .of the effects of bilateral a d on education  in developing countries, The meagreness.of the aid administer} by the international organiza-,  {ons es coripared with programmes Of bilateral ‘ald {8 à secret for no-one; buf on the other hand,  Member Sthtes are Hound to aéknowlédg:, from réflection and expériencé, the attendant problenis  that acéompany bilateral aidi waste, duplicated effort, discrimination within the ‘country receiv~  ing aid in favour of the country giving it and against multilateral ald, and distortion of the educa-  tional curricula to reflect the foreign concepts of the giver. :  a das 'U 5 “4e ta > J Pa 20005 - “ea TN 216 A - + Ee H te" , -
(6.6) .The time has come, I feel, when the overall planning of educational programmes in devel-  oping countries should be carried ouf through multilatéral aid and agcordingly through the inter-  national bodies; while if bilateral aid is to be effective and free ôf any of thé démands whléh are  its natural counterparts, it should be confined to the implementation of plans established and for-  mulated by international bodies and by the responsible authorities in each country. In this way,  independence and initiative would be respected, ‘
(6.7) Multllateral ald, being stélctly objective, 18 therefore ‘the indispensable pattern for the aid  which States hope to be given, espécially when, as is the case with many of them, the training of  their peoples still lies in the future, whereby foreign influences in their educational eystem may  lead to fallacious deviations in the national psychology.
(6.8) I say this in the full belief that the essential condition for real development les in drawing  up truly national plans, with such necessary variants as are required for purposes of internation-  al'éo-ordinatton. iE
(6.9) Long-term planning and a careful choice of priorities must be very actively pursued by  Unesco. Experience has shown that programmes extending over several two-year periods can  be niore correctly evaluated, while at the same time they facilitate the necessary adjustments,
(6.10) My delegatioï firmly supports the contimied priority given to education in the' 1969-1970  programme, but {8 of the opinion that greater stress must bé laid on thé selective tiatére of ‘that  programme, so that in the long run increasing importénce can be given to the priority sectors.  One point calls for further comment. It ie an undeniable fact that ae the needs of development  grow in our countries, the programmes begin to show a declded tendency towards inflation; but  we must not overlook the essential, what in law is equivalent to that necessary minimum degree  of justice which manidnd cannot be denied, ‘It is urgent to call a halt pnd realize that within the  priority entitled education, there is a'chapièr calling for special attention: illiteracy.
(6.11) It 1& obvious that, ‘as pait of the long-term planning of the Organization's activities, êle-  mentary justice requires that priority should be giveñ to the World Experiniental Litéracy Pro-  gramme, Even if there were no other arguments in its favour,” the meré fact that 700 milion  human beings cannot read the Universal Declaration of Human Rights would suffice tô démand  priority for that programme. Ladies and gentlemen, it might be sald, paraphrasing the great  English metaphysical poet, John Donne, that "No man is an island, every man is a pièce of cul-  ture, and any man's illiteracy diminishes me because I am involved in the culture of mankind",  So lef us hope that, in the future, the literacy programme will continue to be one of the essential  features of Unesco. : ; f
(6.12) A distinguished Minister of Education has asked the following question from this platform:  "What, in 1968, is youth? Coming as I do from a country where youth, in addition tothe problems  . inherent in its stage of life is also involved in those peculiar to developing countries, I should like  to ponder and speculate on the situations which youth has to face in the contemporary world",
(6.18) 1 think that sociologists. should make a fresh attempt to establish the parameters for mea-  : suring what it has been fashionable to call the revolt of youth, "youth power'; and furthermore,  to determine how, .in spite of differences in economic, political and cultural structures, the simul-  taneous nature’ of the various protests reveals a certain homogeneity in regard to youth's collec-  tive rejection of the contemporary world. . Co ce  ot REI - LE for i 2 . i Veo LE a Pi ©
(6.14) But let us examine only the mediate ind immediate causes of this phenomenon, in particu-  lar thé social composition of the university masses. It is clear that only a verylow percentage of  the least-favoured classes has access to higher education.  Youthis everywhere inrebellion against  this injustice towa'/ds its con‘emporaries. We see, too, the generous feelings of youth evérywhere  in regard to the -Shdrd World, suffering’ as it does from the same injustices and consequently, un-  derstanding them, «Then there is the rejection of the consumer's society, seen by youth as the  standardized and sterilized expression of an unstable metaphysical system which it identifies with
720   Sesiones plenarias / Hxenapuñe sacédanua XXVI  a world wherein the total capacities of human resources are squandered and only 40% usefully  employed, Youth similarly rejects the pressure exerted on international bodies to reduce the  budgets proposed in favour of the countries of the Third World, 2 .. ‘
(6. 15) Finaily, ong crisis leads to another,’ Turning from youth t to the crisis of higher ediication,  of the universities, we may ask ourselves ‘What thé functions of the latter should be ‘today.’ ‘Above '  all, that function {s not merely passive,” ‘that of serving as an instrument of intellectüal Life; they ©  must anticipate new economic and social needs and ensure that vocational training keeps pace with  the demands of social and economic, change, That does not rule out the humanization of scientists,  To practi¢e science is té practice gulture, to train technicians 1g to humanize nan, ‘ The unlver-  sities derive’ much çustenance from the particularities’ of national culture as from a permanent  Absorption of universal values, the whole making for a super-national dynamic. ‘They are, in short,  the idea! national interpreters of universal values.
(6.16) I cannot let pass this opportunity of thanking the Secretariat for the- attentjon it, has. paid to  two themes of outstanding importance today. The first is the teaching of international law, inview  of the immense importance for small countries of the dissemination of principles concerning the  rights of nations, in a world where frequent violations of international standards have greatly helped  to traumatize the young. The second concerns the cultural heritage, for if there has been a rea-  lization at national level of the need to protect, defend and reappraise the cultural heritage of man-  kind, that is largely due to Unesco's action in an area of fundamental importance and significance  for world culture.
(6.17) In conclusion, fellow delegates, may it be here in Unesco that, as the head of the delega-  tion of Iran pleaded in this assembly, the rôle of Protest is played within the United Nations family,  Let us apply the slogan chalked up under the arches of the Faculty of Pharmacy: "Ici on pense”, -  For Unesco that privilege 1s a right, the right to cast lighton the problems of mankind by means  of thought. I thank you,
7. Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la République duminicaine et je donne la parole  à M, Nguyen Quoc Dinh, chef de la délégation de la République du Viét-nam,
8.1 M, NGUYEN QUOC DINH (Viêt-nam). -  Monsieur le Président, permetiez-moi tout d'abord d'exprimer les sentiments de joie  qu'éprouve la délégation de la République du Viêt-nam'à l'occasion de votre élévationtriom-  phale à la présidence de la quinzième session de notre conférence,
8.2 Tout le Tiers Monde est fier de vous voir occuper ici ce poste suprême. Nous sommes  persuadés en outre que, grâce À vos talents et à votre expérience, vous conduirez nos tra-  vaux vers d'heureuses issues,
8.3 Je voudrais également adresser au directeur général, M, René Maheu, nos ‘chaleu-  reuses félicitations pour sa réélection unanime, qui témoigne de la confiance que mettent -  en lui tous les Etats membres, Une aussi éclatante’ consécration signifie que, dans un  monde inquiet où conception et action doivent se combiner et s'harmoniser pour servir la  cause de l'Unesco, nul n'était, aux yeux de ceux-ci, plus qualifié que lui pour guider notre  Organisation et pour contribuer, en unissant intelligence et énergie, à son succès et à l'ac-  croissement de son prestige.
8.4 Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, le Projet de programme soumis à l'approbation  de notre Conférence générale apparaît, cette fois encore, comme une oeuvre considérable  qui fait honneur à ses auteurs, ‘ Chaque mesure qui s'y trouve proposée constitue une pro-  messe et un espoir pour tous les hommes, On ne saurait évaluer la somme de réflexion,  d'efforts et d'imagination qu'a dû nécessiter l'édification d'un travail aussi dense et aussi  riche. Aussi tenons-nous, avant tout, à assurer le Secrétariat de notre reconnaissance et  de notre admiration. :
8.5 Ma première constatation d'ensemble sera que notre Conférence générale se situe au  point de charnière entre la Première et la Deuxième Décennie des Nations.Unies pour le  développement, Il est donc inévitable que les auteurs du programme aient tiré les leçons
721   XXV1 ‘ Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  de celle de ‘ces "décennies' qui s'achève pour édifier les fondements de.celle qui va com-  mencer, En d'autres termes, ‘toutes les sections de ce programme 1969-1970 sont, ainsi  que leurs composantes, orientées vers uh même objectif : ¢elul du dévéloppement, Qu'il  s'agisse de l'éducation, des sciences exactes et naturelles, des sciences sociales et hu-  mainos ou de la culture, ‘nous sommes avertis que chaque chapitre est conçu “et élabôré  dans cet esprit, .  br tite
8.6 > 'Quend il” 8 la git on te continuation du développément, ‘l'eide aûx ‘Fats en ‘vole de déve-  loppement prend immédiatement un relief particulier, Comme dans le passé, ‘le programme  qui nous est proposé fait une place essentielle à cette aide, Nous nous en réjouissons en  même temps que nous apportons notre appui-sans réserve aux efforts engagés dans ce sens,  Quand on sait que 72 % des habitants du monde vivent dans les pays en voie de développe-  ment (dont'la moitié en Asie), on ne peut qu'encourager l'action de l'Unesco en leur faveur.
8,7 - ‘Lorsqu' on à parle de développement, n est, ‘à notre avis, nécessaire dé se reporter  constamment | A la’ résolution par laquelle l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies a re-  commandé que l'on’ s'attache essentiellement au dévéloppement général, autrement dit à  un développement portant à la fois sur les domainés économique, social, culturel, civique,  politique et éducatif et concernant aussi bien les groupes que les individus. C'est par rap-  port à cette généralité - ou, plus exactement, par rapport à cette totalité - qu'il convient  d'apprécier les éléments concrets du programme,
8.8 La planification de l'éducation comme celle des sciences devraient découler, en s'y  intégrant, de la planification générale. L'éducation et la science, en tant que moyens de  promotion des individus et des sociétés, ne sont pas des fins en soi, Leur développement,  au lieu de contribuer au progrès, provoquera des déséquilibres graves s'il ne s'harmonise  pas avec des efforts parallèles entrepris dans les autres sécteurs de la vie sociale : ceux  de l'économie, de la politique et, nous tenons à le souligner, de la morale.
8.9 En ce qui concérne notamment l'éducation, dans 1a mesure où l'on continue d'admettre  le dilemme quantitatif-qualitatif, cette harmonisation ‘oblige, dans l'état actuel dés choses,  a accorder plus de considération à l'aspect qualitatif qu'à l'aspect quantitatif. Pour illus-  trer ce propos, de portée générale, qu'il nous soit permis de citer un exemple national, ;  Sona i i , . . 2410 4 T4 4 . ‘ a. . Le Te re
8.10 A la fin de 1959, la Conférence de Karachi avait mis sur pied un plan de travail qui  invitait les Etats d'Asie à instaurer dans un délai maximum de 20 ans un enseignement pri-  maire obligatoire et gratuit s'étendant sur sept années au moins. En avril 19€2, une ren-  contre a été organisée A Tokyo entre les ministres de l'éducation des Etats membres d'Asie  ayant adhéré au Plan de Karachi, Ces. ministres ont examiné le Plan, tant dans ses rap-  ports avec la planification générale de l'enseignement que dans ses rapports avec les plans  généraux de dévelôppement économique et social,. Ils ont conclu que leurs Etats respectifs  devraient s'efforcer de porter à 4 % ou 5 % en 1980 la fraction de leur produit national brut  affectée à l'éducation, Or, d'ores et déjà, notre pays possède, .aux niveaux primaire .et  secondaire, un système d'enseignement public gratuit d'une durée totale de 12 années,  D'autre part, il est certain que, malgré les difficultés que nous connaissons actuellement,  nous pourrons atteindre à la date indiquée l'objectif des 5 % fixé à Tokyo, Par ailleurs,  nous avons réussi à implanter des écoles dans un grand nombre de communautés rurales.  i
8.11 Malheüreusement, nous devons avouer que nôus n'avons pas obtenu un à ‘rendement sa-  tisfaisant,' Mises À part lee difficultés particulières à notré pays, cette’ insuffisance quali-  tative est, d'après notre expérience, principalement due aux abandons én cours d'études,  à la pénurie de maîtres et à la précarité des installations scolaires, Nous sommes donc  heureux de constater que, dans le Projet de programme, on s'est préoccupé de ces pro-  blèmes ‘qui ont ‘provoqué ‘Une véritable crise de l'éducation, Nous souhaitons que des efforts  sans cesse accrus soient entrepris en vue d'y remédier, ‘
8,12 L'amélioration qualitative suppose encore, comme:l'a signalé au-mois d'août dernier  la Conférerice internationale sur la planification de l'éducation, ‘uno rénovation du proces--  sus de l'éducation, Celui-ci devrait 8tre conçu comme une activité:permanente se poursui-  vant pendant toute la vie, Dès lors, nous accueillons favorablement l'expansion de la ru-  brique relative aux.aotivités extrascolaires, Déjà, lors de la quatorzième session de la  Conférence générale, notre délégation avait souhaité que cette rubrique. englobât l'éduca-  tion des adultes. . ;
8,13 Il est en ‘outre indispensable de parvenir à la diversification des brarichës'd'engei-  gnement, afin que les jeunes puissent, selon leurs aptitudes, accéder aux professions qui  leur plaisent et avoir à tous les stades de:leur éducation des possibilités de clioix, Dans  les pays en voie de développement qui, bien qu'agricoles; sont en voie ‘d'industrialisation;  la planification de l'enseignement devrait tendre à encourager l'enseignement agricole  aussi bien que l'enseignement technique et professionnel -ce dernier étant de nature à  faciliter le processus d'industrialisation, ° Vs
8,14 Ces quelques éxemples, suffisent à'montrer qué ‘les tâches. à accomplir dans’ le cadré  du développement ‘sont riulfiples ét multiformes, Pourtunt, ‘alors méme que les ‘Pésul ats’  enregistrés au monient où s 'achèye la Prémière' Décenniè né sont’) pas pleinenient satisfai-  sants, 11 existe déjà i une ‘crise de iratde’ au ‘dévéloppément, ‘Dans la mesure où cette crise’  est une crise de ressources, ‘l'Unesco, qui à déjà réservé les deux tiers de son “budget â  cette aidé; ne peut'qu'en appeler aux pays développés. pour obtenir d'eux, que la part de’  leur revenu national consacrée à l'assistance technique âtteigie effectivemeht le niveau  de 1 % prévu à l'occasion de la Première Décennie, Par contre, si la crise, est aussi une  crise de moyens d'action, d'instrumentalité, il est perniis de souhaiter que l'Unesco réus-  sise à la surmonter par elle- même, en mettant sur pied des mécanismes spécifiq es de  coopération avec la PNUD ‘et avec les autres institutions spécialisées des Nations Unies,
8.15 Une autre exigence de l'intégration du développement de l'éducation et des sciences  dans le développement général nous conduit à dire quelques mots du secteur des sciences  sociales et humaines, .
8.16 Incontestablement, le développemerit dés sciences sociales et himaines est un’'fac-  teur du développement général, parce qu'ilinfluetout naturellement sur le secteur’ del'édu-  cation ét'de l'enseignement, Il l'est aussi pour une autre raison, qui nous’ “intéresse ici  dans là mesure 6ù-les dûteurs du Projet de programme pour 1969-1970 ont tenté de réäli-  seï.ün certaln équilibre entre le conceptuel et l'opératiorinel; - En effet, la recheréhe’ de  cet équilibre signifie que, dans la poursuite de tous les ôbjéétifs,- là théorie est aussi né-  cessaîre que l'action, ‘On'devrait'rnême reconnaître quil n'y aurait pas d'aétion utile sans  théorie,‘ C'est en fonction des données de l'ensemblé social qu'il faut ‘définir lés besoins ;  mais il convient aussi d'évaluér les répercussions qu'ont sur cet ensemble les initiatives  concrètes, afin d’en tirer des enseignements pour ‘l'avenir,
8.17 Or, on ne pourrait pas valoriser cet aspect coriceptiel de'l'activité de'1'Organisation  si le secteur des sciences sociales et humaines continuait d'être le moins favorisé du Pro-  gramme, Nous souhaitons donc, comme nous l'avons déjà fait à maintes reprises, que soit  augmenté le pouréentage du budget aécordé à ce secteur,
8.18 Avec les sciences sociales et humaines, nous débouchons tout naturellement sur des  considérations relatives à la société, ‘  € 2j
8.19 Volel done un sécond point de repère : : le Projet de budget pour ‘lexerolce biénnal à-  venir doit être exarniné sous le signe de la rénovation de’ la société, : Le Directeur général  lui-même, dans le magistral discours ‘qu'il a prononcé pour'ouvrir ce débat de’ politique  générale, a paru nous y inviter, ‘N'a-t-il pas énuméré et décrit les quatre ‘crises que,  dans le déroulement de nos travaux, nous ne devrions pas perdre'de vue 1 la ‘crise de
723   XXVI Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  l'éducation, la crise de l'aide au développement, la crise de la jeunesse et la crise des  droits de l'homme ? Or, il ne s'agit là que des aspects d'une seule et même crise : la  crise de la société, tant à l'échelon national qu'à l'échelon international,
8,20 Pour faire face à cette crise, le monde doit résoudre de nouveaux et vastes problèmes :  quels sont les défauts de la société existante qui ont engendré la crise ? Que faut-il faire -  pour rénover cette société ? Toute l'action à mener en faveur du développement général  doit être envisagée et pensée sous ces éclairages que nous devons aux lueurs d'une actua-  lité chargée de tant d'événements,
8,21 L'Uresco a pour mission d'aider les Etats membres à trouver des solutions à ces  questions, Elle en est assurément consciente,
8. 22 Nous pensons au remarquable rapport que le Secrétariat a consacré à la jeunesse et  auquel notre délégation apporte son appui entier et admiratif, Nous soucrivons a l'analyse,  et À l'interprétation des faits qu'il nous présente, comme nous acceptons les grandes lignes  de la thérapeutique proposée par ses auteurs, Si nous reconnaissons que la science doit  viser au général et à l'universel, nous souhaitons cependant que, dans toute la mesure du  possible, ‘des études comme celles’ qui sont envisagées soient conduites aussi dans chaque  Etat en ‘particuli er, Sans nous ‘rallier pour ‘autant à un rigoureux déterminisme, nous esti-  mons qué les ‘phériomènés sociaux subissent, tant soit peu, l'influence de l'environnement  propre à chaque société nationale, En outre, c'est bien par la’ comparaison des données  particulières que l'on peut atteindre le réel dans sa généralité,
8.23 ‘En ce qui’ éoncerne la crise des droits de Thoyame, elle découle aussi dé certains‘  aspects actuels de la société internationale, Sans doute, In ‘diversité’ du monde et la diver-  sité des cultures sont- -elles én partie responsables de la ‘diversité des conceptions dès  droits de l'homme. Mais ‘tout ce pluralisme ‘he créerait que richesse, et non conflit, s'il  ne reposait pas, en outre, sur des oppositions idéologiques, Nous voudrions, quant à  nous, ‘conserver’ l'espoir que les idéologies différentes convergeront finalement vérs la  reconnaissahce de grands idéaux cornmuns et, pour tout dire, vers une conception uni-  forme des droits de l'homme,
8. 24 ‘Sur le plan juridique, il y a également des voeux à formuler, . Les organisations inter-  nationales et-les Etats s'emploient à établir des textes consacrant les droits de l'homme,  et nous les en félicitons, Mais, depuis la dernière guerre, les résultats de ces tentatives  restent dans l'ensemble décevants, A part quelques rares exceptions, les textes obliga-  toires ne conttennent que des affirmations générales qui ne sont pas immédiatement appli-  cables, -tundis que les textes assez détaillés pour être immédiatement applicables ne sont  point obligatoires, ; Signalons, . en passant, que la Convention concernant la lutte contre la  discrimination dans le domaine de l'enseignement et son protocols = que la République du  Viêt-nam a, pour sa part, ratifiés - n'ont pas encore reçu l'adhépion de tous, Tant que se  prolongera cette situation, dont est responsable une société internationale fondée sur l'in-  transigeance de la souveraineté étatique, la méconnaissance des droits de l'homme conti-  nuera d'échapper à toute sanction efficace,
8.25 Espérons aveg lé Directeur général qu'un jour "les Etats comprendrorit que c'est  l'organisation mêmé du monde qui doit être revisée dans son ordonnance, dans ses mé-  canismes et dans ses règles",
8.26 En'tout cas, c'est la nécessité de rénover la société qui nous conduit à renouvelér  notre appel en faveur des sciences sociales et humaines, ‘Nous le faisons parce que, de-  puis les origines de l'humanité, c'est toujours au cours des périodes de crise - ou À l'oc-  casion des crises qui perturbent les institutions sociales traditionnelles - que g'épanouit  une pensée sociale orientée vers la construction d'un monde nouveau, Nous voudrions que  l'Unesco s'en souvienne et qu'elle se situe désormais dans Ja même constante historique  en encourageant partout des études sur la réalité sociale et humaine et en suscitant par-  tout le goût de telles études.  T24   Sesionés plenarias/llaenapusne sacedansa XXV1
8,27. Monsieur le. Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, contribuer au développement général  en se plaçant sous le signe de la rénovation dela société contemporaine, telle doit être fi-  nalement la ligne de conduite à suivre, ‘En fonction de cette directive, tous les éléments :  de notre programme doivent être, comme disait Auguste Comte, "profondément connexes"  et constituer, selon les termes employés par d'autres sociologues, une "totalité solidaire",  Sur le plan de l'instrumentalité, nous souhaitons donc que certains efforts soient accomplis  dans ce sens, Mais nous attachons’ surtout une grande importance à la coordination et à la  participation,
8,28 La coordination: existe déjà entre les divers services du Secrétariat et entre l'Unesco  et les autres institutions spécialisées ; elle existe aussi, sur le plan universel ou régional,  entre les Etats membres, , Nous estimons que, désormais, elle devrait être étendue au ma-  ximum ‘puisque, ,maintenant plus que dans le passé, tout est lé à tout, L'efficacité et la fé-  condité de la coordination régionale ont trouvé - nous tenons à le souligner - une remar-  quable illustration dans la Conférence récemment tenue à New Delhi sous le sigle de  CASTASIA, Nous devrions donc nous efforcer de favoriser constamment les rencontres  régionales,
8,29 En ce qui. concerne la participation, je dirai qu'ilest essentiel que les Etats membres  participent à la totalité des activités de l'Unesco, en raison, précisément, de l'interdépen-  dance de ces activités, C'est’ pourquoi, nous nous associons chaleureusement aux déléga-  tions qui réclament l'augmentation du nombre des membres du Conseil exécutit ainsi que  la représentation ‘équitable de toutes les cultures et réglons, Nous attachons également  beaucoup de prix À toutes les autres formes de participation. Nous jugeons par exemple  très utiles ces réunions de délégués permanents qui ont été régulièrement organisées par  le Secrétariat au cours des deux années écoulées,
8.30 Mesdames, Messieurs, telles sont les réflexions que la délégation du Viêt-nam sou-  haitait formuler à l'occasion de ce débat de politique générale, qui répond, au sein de notre  Organisation, à une tradition bien établie,
8,31 Qu'il me soit permis, avant de quitter cette tribune, de déclarer, au norn du Gouver-  nement dont je suis le porte- parole, que mon pays est déterminé à s'acquittel sans défail-  lance des devoirs qui incombent à tout Etat membre de l'Unesco et de la communauté inter-  nationale. Quel que soitle poids de nos préoccupations actuelles, nous nous refusons à de-  meurer en arrière sur la route que suit aujourd'hui l'Unesco pour tenter d'élever l'homme  et de préparer un monde meilleur.
9. Le PRESIDENT: -  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de la République du Viêt-nam et jè donne la pa-  role à M, Martin Hill, représentant du Secrétaire général de l'Organisation des Nations  Unies,
10.1 Mr. HILL (United Nations) :  Mr. President, the Secretary-General has asked me to convey his warm greetings and  good wishes to the General Conference and his profound sense of gratification that, with  such remarkable enthusiasm and unanimity, it has re-elected as Director-General of this  Organization, Mr. Maheu, whom he has learned to esteem so greatly as colleague, counsél-  lor and friend, ;
10. 2 It is customary for the Secretaries-General of the United Nations to send a message  of greeting to each session of the General Conference, but this has been done at the last,  and again on the present, occasion with a growingawareness and appreciation of what Unesco  means in the United Nations eystem and of the unique and essential charadëter of its contri-  bution. This awareness 18 particularly keen at the present time when there is 80 much in  the international political scene that is discouraging and it has been heightened by the char-  acter of the new programme which has been proposed to you, It found récent expression in  the Secretary-General's letter to the Director-General, of 18 March 1968, on the subject
726 -   xXxVvl Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  of Unesco's contribution to peace, international co-operation and security of peoples through  education,‘ science and culture, and in his formal message to the General Conference onthe  occasion of its Twentieth Anniversary celebration two years ago.  + FE EN 208
10,3 To such statements there is nothing that I ‘can usefully add. I should, however, like  to select for brief comment today a few closely linked subjects and aspects of international  action of particular current concern not only to Unesco and the United Nations but also to  many other members of the United Nations system.
10,4 "Firstly, the promotion and enrichment of human rights’ and freédoms, In one ‘sense,  and'a very’ réal: one; ‘almost every phase of ‘international ‘activity is directed towards this  énd; but'what I ‘want to’ refer to is more specific. ‘This is Human Rights Year the purpose  of which is to stimulate a review of the progress made in achieving the objectives embodied  in the Universal Declaration adopted in Paris Just twenty years go.
10.5 There has been every indication of a ‘positive anid éficouraging response to the General  Assembly's appeal for "intensified efforts in the field of Human Rights" during the year, and  as the Secretary-Genéral has reported, "the adoption of the Uniyersal Declaration is being  commemorated by tôcusinig the“aitention of thie Wor 1d on the importance ‘Which the ‘ ‘United  Nations attachés to res éèt for hüman’ dignity", " nia fridedd was the’ essential task of the  United Nations Internation :  though the Cénference was ‘only’ too’ well aware of the violations of the’ spirit and letter of  the Declaration still Otcurting in’ many, ‘parts of the world, In the ‘development of respect  for human rights, Unesco has a vast’ And’ continuing role to play ‘and I take this opportunity  of acknowledging what it has already accomplished in very many fields, most notably, per-  haps, in the fight against all forms of discrimination and for the freedom of the press.
10. 6 The ‘prémotion'éf huïnaf. rights and freedom 4e, of courée, very. ‘olosely ‘associated  with my second subject, Which" is youth, On this subjécé, one of the most eloquent and’  thought-provoking addresses ever made before the Economic and ‘Soétal Council was de-  livered last summer by your Director-General and the echoes of that address can still be  heard in the’ ‘other organizations closely concerned with ‘this problem, The debate. has now  been carried forward and 1 have learned with the greatest ‘interest of the far- -reaching pro-  gramme tor and by ‘youth which is now before the Conference,
10.7 ‘The ‘current problem of youth, with’ its radical questioning. of our potitical and soclal  standards and structures, is one which the international organizations are approaching in  knowledge of the fact that it is to help improve the lot of those who constitute the youth of  today that so much of the. work of the United Nations system for. economic, social and, cul-  tural development is ‘directed. They aré approaching it pragmatically and with some. ditti-  dence, but with the conviction that they have a contribution to make and a responsibility to  make it. Unesco's programme would clearly be the very core of the major effort which is  envisaged by the United Nations system,
10. 8 My. third subjeét, ‘the. International. Education Year, provides a noteworthy example .  of how the United Nations and Unesco can reinforce each other, the United Nations General  Assembly having adopted- the initiating resolution, . Unesco assuming ‘the leading and co-  ordinating rôle in carrying it out, The Programme Commission of this Conference may  have been informed already of the support for the objectives and modes of action proposed  by the Director-General which was expressed by the other Executive heads of the United’!  Nations system ut the meeting of the Administrative Committee on Coordination, the ACC  ‘held tn New York last week. .  RE . 4 os A . .
10. 9. This: supporti banged from’ the development of new. ideas and methods in edùèation and  vocational training (ILO) té the preparation of navigational manuals (IMCO) ‘and included  intensification of training of middle ‘and higher-level pérsorinel in specialized fields (ICAO,  WMO) - andthe possibility of concerted action between educational and health authorities
726   “ Sesiones plenarias /Haenapuwe sacedanus  XXVI  (WHO) .as well as:various projects designed to assist refugees (UNHCR and UNRWA) to pro-  mote human rights and the access of women and youth to education (United Nations and Unicef)  and generally the development:of human resources, particularly in rural areas, and the call-  ing of an agricultural education conference (FAO). . .  Le (EIS  EEE]  siderable valtdity; and it {8 also true that for many countries and fn mary aspects the hopes  engendered by the Decade have been disappointed,” It is important, however, not to béliftle  A 4H  which in 1969 will finance the largest programme in its history.
10.13 Thére aré many ‘Sther matters of Common interest which I should greatly like to  toüch upon, - including two that are relatively new. - These are the problems of the human  environment, on which the possibilities of a major programme through the organizations  of the United Nations system are under:consideration by the General Assembly on the basis  of a resolution of ECOSOC, and the equally exciting subjects of marine science, and prob-  lems of. the seabed and the ocean floor. NES 0" AE
10.14 But time {s short and I shall confine myself to raising one additional matter which  is of very general interest and with which I am myself closely concerned, namely co-  ordination. In the Introduction to the Draft Programine- and Budget for 1969-1970, : the  Director-General has drawn attention to two disturbing developments in the General Assembly  of the United Nations, The first - the tendency to create new centres of co-ordination, re-.  sulting in confusion and urnecessary doéumentation - has been taken up by the Secretary  General himself in the Introduction to his Annual Report to the General Assembly this year.
10.15 The second is the téndency to launch important new programmes without taking suf-  ficient account of what has been, is being or can best be done by the Specialized Agencies.
727   XXVI : Plenary meetings /Séances plénières  tices, ECOSOC, at the suggestion of ACC has recommended: that the General ty  adopt rules of procédure in the matter similar to its own. ‘These rules provide that, where  a proposal put forward in the course of a méeting for new economic or soblal activities to  be undertaken by the United Nations relate to matters of direct concern to one or more  agencies; thé Secretary-Genéral shall draw thé attention of the riiééting’ to the implications  of the proposal’ and the Assembly shall satisfy itself that adequate consultations have taken  place with the agénciès concerned, Evén if this’ proposal is not acted on this year by the  General Assembly, ‘pending further study, thére is some reason to believe that the very  discussion of it has already been of value aiid theré will be fewér, if any, causes for com-  plaint on such grounds at the current session. It is hoped, too, that other intergovernmen-  tal organs will be guided by the same spirit, :  RE  ject by ALY to achieve a comparable ee ‘of co- nus dé rer the’ United Na-  tions system during thé formulation and planning of International work, One thing ‘which  pleased ‘ me especially was the Director-Genéral's tribute to the | "patient clriying of the  Secrétarlats, at all levels and’ in all fields, towards elucidation, harmonization and co-  operation, under the aegis of the Administrative Committee on Co-ordination". Mr, Maheü  . has himself boen, one of the pillars of dur éntire inter-agency éo- -ordination system and his  words will be a source of encouragement throughout the international service, and not least  to those who are closely and constantly concérned with the task of ensuring that the incrédibly  complex United Nations system, with its autonomous organizations, functions smoothly and  effectively,
10. 17 Mr. President, speaking from. this rostrum two years "ago, my. colleague, Mr.  Philippe : de Seynes, United Nations Under Secretary-General for Economic aiid Social ‘Affairs,  referred to the Director- General as the authentic voice of Unesco ‘and praised] ‘his construc-  tive thinking and tireless energy, from which not only Unesco but also the entire United Na-  tions family of organizations benefito. I think the General Conterence is well aware, and  it is my privilege to confirm, that this expresses. the feelings not only of the Secretary-  General but also of the executive heads of all the United Nations organizations, who, with  Mr. Maheu continuing as a partner, can face with greater confidence their formidable re-  asponsibilities in the years ahead.
11. Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie le représentant du Secrétaire général de l'Organisation des Nations Unies  et je donne la parole à S, Exe, M. Caballero de Bedoya, chef de la délégation « du Paraguay.
(12.1) Mr. CABALLERO de ‘BEDOYA (Paraguay) (Translation from the ‘Spanish : ;  Mr. President, fellow delegates: Youth, the so-called student movement, the university  crisis, are the urgent problems of our time. Despite ‘the fact that they have arisen simulteneously  and have become genérel, they are not the ‘samé in the developed and the developing countries.
(12.2) It we seek an explanation; one was put foward by Galo Plaza, Secretary-General of thé Or-  ganization of American States, who said that Latin American youth was becoming agitated and im-  patient at the growing gap between developed and déveloping countries, not. only ia respect of  material resources, but also of scientific and technical progress. This sgitifion is caused by  inflation, thé high cost of living, disappointment at a further reduction of international financial  assistance and the fall in the value of exportable produce; the whole situation being aggravated  by attempts to exploit this youth movement for sectarian purposes by political groups.
729 .   XXV1 | . «Plenary meetings /Sdances plénièrés
(12,3): It ig against this background that the opposition of youth and the’ rebellion of.the uniyersi-  ..Hes in defence of thelr traditional privileges must be seen, . There 18 no question in Latin America.  _ of a rebelllon against. the industrial or, consumer, .gaglety, On the other hand, European youth |  moyéménte, ‘with few exceptions, are of a’ social or revolutionary character, ‘ _, The young are  ‘trying to éstablief thémselvés as d'soolal élazs and fè'draw In the workers to support their élaims,  There 15 an attempt to det up a "student power", :A thinker like Marcuse cannot recruit followers  ‘in thé developing countries. It would be madness to try when these countries are > Just beginning *  to develop, to become sirsorne, through industrialization.     , p LE : * IN
(12. 4) Education cannot sustain its status que ante, Reform is essential. We are e pained tos geo  immobility, routine and anachronism take hold of the universities in a changing world, following  the pattern of the Napoleonic educational monopoly. On a humanistic basis of human dimensions,  - itis necessary to build a complementary techiical culture,  af Leu B .  - (12.5) -To adapt education to the actual ‘situation, - place and time, to ettetid t to the renéwal of  teaching methods; to the raising of the school-leaving agé; to further training and adult education,  to establish the right to education in such a way as to contribute to national progress with due re-  gard to employment opportunities, these are the objectives,  ‘nai 6)’ ‘The rôle ‘ot the ‘established authorilies’ is te promote change while maintaining order, The  essèntlal task is to raise the ‘standard of living so that the‘ people can obtain what modern labour-  saving techniques haÿé to offer’, Security through progress has bécomé a catchword, However,  spokesmen in the rich countries essure us that all this is false, that we need to go back to our ‘  original purity, to a kind of renovated Rousseau formula, that soclety is the evil,  (i2, 7) ‘Equally a as between féachers and ‘students will create a spirit that ‘will integrate, them  : fully in the Institutional life of the university, in a way somewhat reminiscent of the scholastic  community of mediaeval Salamanca,  . ‘ ip ru y vd  IR LE
(12. 8)’ “The inbvéédiiles arg 5 faged y plie wen blers, that of nerensingly, taf je umb rs, on ‘the  one hand, that'ôt'guidériéé 1h highér Fi bi ‘the other. T6 promote the Fen inher sét-  entific studies, agricultural techniques and the "lucrative sciences" fs a necessity; but it is no  less essential to strengthen the hondg beïween the universities and the business world, ; Thus the  «problem of establishing a balance ‘between the content an d the methodology, « of. teaching arises  within the context of development, Failure to establish this balance; results, in the d hope  countries, in paradoxical phenomena such as “unemployment of intelléctuals, if too Evita  people have taken arts courses or prepared for the liberal professions, or a brain drain ir os  "is riot enough employment for those with scientific training, The report made by the sociologist;  Naraghi, to the United Nations gives us disquieting details concerning the numbers of scientists  lost to certain countries in the Third World. It lg necessary that Unesco should examine and solve  all these complex problems with the co- operation of youth. .
13. Le. PRESIDENT. - =  Je remercie le chef de la ‘délégation du Paraguay et je donne la a parole à M, Betancur  Mejfa, chef de la délégation de Colombie,  Fa LP ‘<7 Et R! + ' - : . D
14,19 Estamos en la época del ‘diélogo, y la paz del mundo exige que el diélogo se haga  con todos los pueblos dé la tierra, Hay que abrir las puertas en la Organizacién mundial,  y desde luego en la Unesco, al mayor nfimero de pafses, Debo concluir haciendo votos for  la paz, que es la meta de nuestra taréa, paz que debe iniciarse con el arreglo inmediato  del conflicto del Vietnam, herida ablerta en el corazén del mundo, Muchas gracias.  elon of the General Conference and to AM with all those who have A à 5e you and thé Afri-  can region for your well-merited elevation to the Presidency, Those of us who have for a nûmber  of years been familiér with what you have done in the Executive Board and who appreciate your  efforts on behalf of education; science and culture, both thére and at thé Education Ministry in  your own country, are not surprised by this new achlevement, the logical result of years dedica-  ted to the wholehearted service of the ideals which bring us together, 1 should also like to take  this opportunity to congratulate and welcome Professor Tuncel, our former President, vho per-  formed his functions with such brilliance and competence, A  id #4
(14. 2) On re- electing the Director- General, we successfully dealt with one ofthe most jmportant  items on our agenda, Very often great ideological schemes cannot become historical reality for  want of persons capable of dedicating themselves to their service.: On rerelecting him; we delib-  erately confirmed our confidence in the principles on which this Organization was founded, The  realistic programming of Unesco's policy and its increasing vu in such wide and diverse  flelds are largely due to our Director-General, René Maheu, to his remarkable ability and his  international expetlence. His noble ideology end humanism, his perfeel intellectual discipline,  have resulted fn Unesco having clear plans of administrative action. Under his direction the Or-  ganization is entering on the successful completion of this decade and ts preparing for a periodof  undisputed Importance in human development.
(14. 3) As we draw near to the decade of the 197016 we see more clearly the responsibilities  which will devolve on Unesco in the light of past experience. While in the 1850's ‘à few States  began timidly to allude to the importance of human resources, an importance which was to be  confirmed over the last ten years, it is now necessary to say that those resources ‘nust become  the overriding concern of the United Natl/sns through Unesco.
(14.4) As early as 1956 Latin Amerlca,, ‘when the importance ofhuman resources became evident,  began overall plarining of education, nof “only to facilitate its extension, but tob ring about a steady  improvement in {is quality while integrating it with each country's specific needs, with due em-  phasis on financial and administrative aspects, It was at this time that a campaign was launched  to direct the flow of international funds to the service of education. This heppy initiative was  crowned with success thanks to Unesco's efficient management, ‘ -
733 °   XXV1 Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
(14,5). AU these ideas, which have been so benefioial to member countries, should be constantly  improved upon and applied in all the spheres in which we are competent.
(14,8) Unesco could prepare a:plan for the next decade which would serve as a model for the other  Speclalized Agencies, - which would have some definite objectives for education, science, culture.  and information and which would be useful in that the programme could be adjusted to that plan at  each General Conference, the necessary changes being made in accordance with évaluations and  new realities,
(14. 7) t Wo have carefully studied the importdit report én youth, It would be advisable for the  national commissions to study it in the light of the situation in their respective countries and to  make pertinent coraments, which might serve as a basis for a ney version, to be studied at. the  ,next-Ggneral Conference. If would also be advisable for trends in this sector and the effective-  ness of the youth programme to be periodically rèviewed. In any atudy of youth it must be borne  {n mind that the problems which come up are’ sometimes those of a few minority groups. By  gaining tho attention of the mass media, these achieve incréasing impaét and frequently make us  forget the problems of larger groups interested in carrying out their traditional tasks.
(14.8) In recent months venerable universities which have contributed a great deal to Western  culture have been shaken to their very foundations. Everything indicates that a major reform is  on the way. ;
(14,9) In Colombia the university has been autonomous for many years. This privilege was  granted by the community so that the university might serve it more effectively and perform the  function which befits it in the devélopment of the country and {he preparation of its leaders. Uni-  versities shéuld be made more fully aware’ of thelr fntéknational réspoheibilitles and as far as  : poralble their co-operation should bé sodght in the préparation of the development of our programmes,  Today, when reglons are endeavouring to integrate, it is the rôle of the universities to study. the  repercussions of such integration and, through teaching and research, to formulate and facilitate  the appropriate solutions. The responsibility of the universities with regard to the whole educa-  tional system, must be made manifest, Their part {n the training of those who direct, administer  or teach at the varicus levels of education is becoming greater every day.  . : 42 2140 Ce to A * . FL . .
(14,10) Awareness of social responsibility must be inculcated in students, as also a feeling of  , solidarity with all social classes, They should be encouraged to place. their learning at the ser-  vice of the whole community and reject the mercenary spirit"to be found in some professions.  The universities must set up some machinery for the continual improvement of teaching standards  and methods and for ensuring flexibility in thelr organization. They will tend to turn into institu-  tions dispensing fresh knowledge to graduates and to become the backbone of continuing education,
(14.11) I should like to draw attention to the importance of the administrative sciences and their  ‘teaching, This is a field of coñcérn to Unesco bécause, in all gectors of development, when proj-  ects-are evaluatéd it 1:-dometimes found that à large proportion of the resources has been wasted  owing to Inefficient administration. : ) ' ' " '
(14,12) "In the ÿear 1966 it'was estimated that Member States of Uniescohad invested approximately  $90,006 million in education, an amount which would be much greater today, and if we include  the amounts spent on science and culture the total would be greater still. But what indication do  we have of the effectiveness or productivity of all this money?  ‘
(14.13) The scarcity of modern structures ahd systems of administration which hampers the de-  velopment of education, science and culture; could be remedied, at-least in part, by intensive  technical assistunce from Unesco. An experiment which yielded valuable results in my country  .was thé emergency plan to extend education to the maximum by turning all available resources to  the best account. We were able to increase primary school enrolments by more than 400, 000 and  enrolments in secondary and higher education by more than 20 per cent,
(14.14) It to plañnirig and adminiatiation, aspects in which Unésco has helpéd fyith subcess; we  were to add the Iniprovement of administrative machinery dnd particularly thé rélevant systems  _ réspoñsible for education, éstéhce and culture,” Member States would dérive incalculable benefits,  A programme for the Improvément of the teaching of the administrative écléncés ih secondary  ‘schools, ‘in higher education ‘and in adult education would also bé highly welcome to all the sectors  responsible for development, :
(14.16) Regional infegration is a step on the way to world integration. The planning of joint pro-  grammes for each région is not only an answer to the difficulties encountéred by all countries in  achieving their objectives, but would imply awareness of the fact that regional collaborationisan  effective way of distributing human résdirces, Latin America, ao other regions in the world, is  making a desperate effort to achleve regional complomentarity from the économie point of view,  The Unesco regional centres and the new programmes should serve to hasten integration in re-  spect of education and sclence also, Colombia's interest in the establishment of a Centre to pro-  mote the production and distribution of books stems from its intention to join forces in that region  with respect to this particular activity, We are counting on the support of various governments  for this project and we have hopes that for this purpose a meeting of experts will be organized by  Unesco in Bogoté in 1969. Novels and plays have assumed major significance in the development  of contemporary literature in our hemisphere,
(14.16) It was a great pleasure to my delegation to hear the heads of delegations of the Arab  countries speak in Arabic, a language of special significance in the cultural development of the  Hispzno-American peoples owing to the valuable contribution it made to our language,
(14,17) Uneaco's Constitution and Rules of Procedure contain some obsolete provisions which  require amendment, If it is possible in the United Natlons General Assembly, where matters af-  fecting world peace and security are dealt with, to modify the Charter by a qualified majority, it  is quite senseless that Unesco's instruments require so many time-wasting legal procedures that  the sovereign will of the Organization cannot be expressed. We cannot paralysé the General Con-  ference with formalities and legal procedures,
(14,18) I should like to draw the particular attention of all delegates to the impértance of the pro-  posed changes in Unesco's Constitution, designed to give the largest possible nuinber of Member  States access to the Executive Board and to ensure an equitable and necessary rotation. It was  with this purpose in view that it has been proposed to inèrease the membership to 34, to establish  electoral groups and to fix at four years the period during which it is absolutely prohibited to stand  for re-election, since re-election has in practice led to a stifling monopoly, All these measures  tend to consolidate Unesco, because they are inspired by the spirit of equity and justice on which  the Organization is founded, It is important to give all States an opportunity to help in the guid-  ance of Unesco, If this reform is not effected in good time the Organization's strength will be  sapped, because no country is disposed to remain in a subordinate position indefinitely, Al the  free peoples who make up this illustrious assembly want rotation rather than re-election in the  Executive Board,  {14.19) This is the age of dialogue, and if world peace is to be prescrved all the peoples of the  earth must engage in it, The greatest possible number of countries must be admitted to the world  community, and therefore to Unesco, In conclusion I must express my hopes for peace, to which  we are dedicated. Peace should begin with the immediate settlement of the Viet-Namese conflict,  an open wound in the world's heart. Thank you, Mr. President.
15,1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie le chef de la délégation de Colombie, dernier orateur inscrit pour prendre  la parole cet après-midi,
15,2 Sauf en ce qui concerne deux orateurs, les chefs des délégations du Sénégal et du  Nicaragua, qui, pour des raisons exceptionnelles, ne pourrontintervenir que samedi matin,  avant la réponse du Directeur général, je déclare clos le débat de politique générale,
15,3 La séance est levée,  The meeting rose at 5, 45 p.m,  La séance est levée à 17 h, 45  Se levanta la'sesién a las 17, 45