Twenty-fourth plenary meeting
29 October 1968 at 3; 15 p, m,  President: Dr, M, DOWUONA (Ghana) '  Vingt-quatrième séance plénière  , 29 octobre 1968, à'15h,16  Président : Dr M, DOWUONA (Ghana)  Vigésimocuaitd sesion plenatid
29 ôkTaOpa 1968 rr, b 15 4, 16 i.  NMpeacesatens: /-p M, IOBYOHA (Fana) .  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued) / DEBAT DE POLITIQUE ‘GENERALE (suite) /  DEBATE SOBRE POLITICA GENERALE (continuaci6n) / OBCYXIEHHE BONPOCOB  OBHIEH MOJIHTHKH (npoxonxenne) . ’
1,1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the 24th plenary meeting open,
1,2 Inow call upon the Head of the delegation of the Republic of Korea, Dr, Sun Keun Lee,
2.1 Dr, SUN KEUN LEE (Korea): 4  , Mr, President, distinguished delegates, on behalf of the Government ‘ ‘and people of  Korea, our delegafion wishes to convey warm and sincere greetings to the fifteenth’ séssion  of the General Conference, :
2, 2 We. would like to extend our sincere congratulations to you,. Mr. President, on your  election, and also to Mr. René Maheu on his re-election as Director-General, A Recalling.  the wise and experienced guidance he has given to Unesco during his past tenure of office,  ‘we are very glad to wish him continued success and to. assure him: of Korea! 8 firm support  and co- operation. : LU, Lo. Cy 101 1 15 },  . ; 11 © AN . . . FE  IN EPRI Cat. ui! . E . PN HE
2:3 We have been deeply impréssed by the many sound observations of earlier speakers:  concerning the fulfilment of Unesco's objectives, namely the attainment and enhancément  of the well-being of all mankind through the development of education, science, culture and  communication.  Poo, ov ; TE ’ Cen Cort
2.4 As a loyal. Member State of Unesco, Korea pledges its share of co-operation in; and:  support for, the programme to be adopted by this Conference, a and In the. actual fmplementa-  tion of the various projects envisaged, = , - oo Ve
641   XXIV Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
2.5 As regards thé development of huirnah fesources 80 vithl to natiohal development, our  delegation welcomes the priority given to education in our programme since this is in line  with the growing need for educational development in all countries, I am very happy to re-  port that Korea's quantitative and qualitative development in education has progressed  greatly during recent years, For example, our six years' period of free compulsory edu-  cation at elementary level is now to be extended to nine years as of next year,
2,6 Iam sube we agree that the problems of young péople and students merit our fullest  attention, for they are becoming increasingly acute in modern society, While urging  Unesco to concentrate on programmes’ for students and youth in general in the coming bien-  nium, and to accord a high priority in future programmes to these matters, I would like to  mention a few of our successful and vigorous activities in this sphere, some of which were  made possible by the generous assistance proyided by Unesco,
2,7 Under the ‘auspices of the: Now Campus Life Movement, there : are now more than 35  Unesco student associations at various universities and colleges throughout Korea, These  have been voluntarily organized by university students who recognize that the great national  goals are economic development and the creation of social stability, and who are earnestly  pursuing academic research and personal development as future leaders of the nation, The  Korean National Commission provides them with regular opportunities and activities through  summer and winter schools, voluntary rural service programmes, the exchange of students  with foreign countries, student conventions, annual international work camps for youth,  week-end work camps, training courses, workshops, seminars and meetings.
2,8 The Korean delegation has studied the programme in respect of human science, social  science and culture, and we would like to express our keen interest in this programme.  However, we observe that the growth rate for the social science programme of Unesco as  a whole is far too low, and we feel strongly that remedial measures shci:ld be sought at  this Conference,  i
2,9 The ‘social sciences can contribute much to the rapid and sound socio-economic devel-  opment of nations, for they deal with human relationships, capabilities and attitudes, We  strongly urge Unesco to strengthen and expand social science activities in future biennia,  with particular emphasis on the proposed projects for a social science clearing-house ser-  vice and the application of the social sciences to the planning of national science policies,  on problems of population and family planning, and also on the problem of the migration of  talents,
2,10 In order to develop the social sciences and measures for applying the findings, of re-  search to the planning and Implementation of our national development ‘programme, and be-  cause it recognizes the riéed to internatiohalize the‘ various disciplines of the social sciences, -  the Korean National Commission for Unesco last year sponsored a seminar on thé theme  of social science scholarship across national boundaries, This was atterided by foreign so-  cial scientists and by many leading Korean socfal scientists who have contributed to all  stages of planning, implementing, analysing and evaluating the nation's economic develop-  merit plans, ’ :
2; 11: Thé seminar featfirshed the’ urgency of  eliminating such weaknesses’ as the serious  gap in the International communication network as far as the social sciences are concernéd,  and the lack of study in depth of intra- and interdisciplinary co-operation, as well as the  need to organize a social science clearing-house service, both at the international and na-  tional levels. :
2,12 I am quite confident that Unesco can play a vital rôle in promoting an international  forum for intellectual collaboration in the social science sector, )
2.13 I need hardly stress the importance of Uneseo's prôgramme in the natural sciences’  and their application to development, V'e especially welcome the progrämmie of ehvirôn-'  mental sciences and natural resources research, More particularly, our delegation
642   Sestiones plenarias /NAenapuue 3acedanua XXIV  wishes to convey our satisfaction at the success of the programme of oceanography and  marine science, thanks to the untiring efforts ofthe Intergovernmental Oceanographic Com-  mission, Korea häs-been a member of this’ Commission since its establishment, partici-  pating actively in the international co-operative study of the Kuroshio current, We earn-  estly look forward to the launching of more vigorous international ventures and we hope to  be called upon for continued participation and contributions in future, .
2,14 We also agree, in general, with the programme of sélence policy, scientific infor-  mation and fundamental research, and the programme for scientific'and technological edu-  cation, since we are aware of thele dynamic impact on our efforts to achieve national de-  velopment,
2,15 Now allow me to make an observation on the application of the principle of diniversal-  ity that we advocate, This concerns the composition of the Executive Board, a subject on  which we have repeatedly expressed our views since the thirteenth session of the General  Conferente, -
2.16 Not all our member countries share equally in the rights and privileges of serving  on the Executive Board, and this ie especially true of the States In the Asian region, If  Unesco members are to work in harmony and co-operation we can surely find ways and  means of bringing about equality and justice on this important issue, Therefore, the  Korean delegation wholeheartedly welcomes and supports the proposed modification of the  composition of the Executive Board.
2,17 As one of the Asian countries most devoted to Unesco's principles. and projects,  Korea would like to join other Asian Member States in urging that fair and just considera-  tion be given to this matter during the present session, Recalling the resolution adopted  unanimously at the Meeting of Asian National Commissions held in Tokyo last September,  our delegation earnestly hopes that a satisfactory solution (taking into account the réason-  able wishes of all Asian countries and with the wholehearted support and understanding of  the other Member States) will become a reality atthis Conference, Thus all Member States, .  without exception, would be enabled to participate fn the work of the Executive Board in fu-  ture, and the universality which we seek would be embodied inour organizational procedures,
2.18 Our delegation is happy that the Unesco’ programme in Korea should havé found a  good climate and fertile soil in which to flower and mature, The increased support by the  governmental’ authorities concerned, the trust and confideiice placed in Us by the non--  governmental organizations and institutions, and'the general public's appt oval of, and en-  thusiastic participation in, our diversified Unesco activities in education, science, and  culture havé opened new vistas,
2,19 am very proud to inform you that early last year the Korean National Commission  for Unesco realized itg long-cherighed dream of constructing an imposing building with a.  total floor space of over 1,300 square metres, This is known as Korean Unesco House"  and is situated in the heart of our capital city, Seoul. ‘ î.
2,20 This large modern building will soon be dedicated to the lofty ideals of Unesco, as a  focal centre for. Unésco activities in Korea and other international ventures; Unésco's ac-  tivities in Korea, rest on a firm foundation and ‘are already proceeding most satisfactorily.  We hope and bélieve they will develop even further in the years to come,
3,1 PRESIDENT:  ; I thank the Head of the delegation of the Republic ot Korea for his contribution to ine  debate, . ; ‘
3.2 I now call onthe Minister of Education of Sierra Leone, the Honourable Mr, R. B, Kowa,.
643   XXIV Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
4,1. Mr. KOWA (Sierra Leone):  May I first of all on-behalf of my govérnment and my delegation, endorse all the Arle  butes that have been’ paid in this, hall to you,” Mr, President, and to the Director-General,  and’ add my warmest congratulations on your well-deserved election, I wish algo to pay a  warm tribute to the Secretariat and the Executive Board for the excellent way in which they  haye prepared this Conference; and especially for the extremely valuable documentation  they have provided, I would like, too, to welcome the four new members of the Organiza-  tion, the People's Republic of Southern Yemen, Lesotho, Barbados and Mauritius, and to  say that we hope that the Unesco family will continue to grow both in number and in the di-  versity. of culture represented in it, - . Lastly, I should like to express our appreciation of  the polioy of closer co-operation and collaboration between Unesco and other international  organizations and agencies, which we hope will enable Unesco to perform its functions  more efficiently,
4,2 I wish now to draw your attention’ to, what. appear to me to be ‘the, most important prob-  lems facing developing countries today 1n the flelds of education, sciénce and culture, Tho  first of these relates to regional planning, co-operation and re-grouping. In colonial West  Africa, there was considerable co-operation of this type, and I need only mention here the  narnes of bédiés such’as the West African Rice Résearch Institute, the West African Cocoa  Research Institufe, the West African Instituté for'Séelal and Economic Research, andthe  West Africtin Examinations Council, to illustrate the progress we had made in regional co-  operation in edlication‘and’sciénce, Unhappily, with the coming of independence, national  prestige intervéned, and all but the last:riamed of these bodies have now disappeared, their  functions having beon taken over by national institutions, ‘such as universities, ‘We are  happy to note that regional economic co-operation has very recently sprung up in West  Africa and we hope it will work successfully. - .  : ART] IY IPS U Cr
4, 3 In this: connexion, may I suggest that, ‘without in. any. way reducing the rôle of these  national institutions, we ‘in’ West Africa should re-examine the need for regional co-,  operation,: Unesco could assist us to rebuild the bridges-of co-operation between us so as  to avoid wasteful duplication of effort, particularly in the fields of university research and  teaching, . In the opinion of my delegation, it would be useful to set up an advisory. commis-  sion to look into this matter at the earliest opportunity,
4,4 Mv delegation would also like to suggest that the chiefs of missions at present resident  in West Africa should, between them, serve all the other States in the region,
4,5 À second ‘problem concerns ‘the exodus, of young people Teom rural to urban’ ‘areas, Jt  is, not, often realized ‘that, éducation ; in. countries | Buch as ours can very easily. become. ant  anti- social force in the. sense that i draws people out of, their own, communities’ into new  communities where codes of behaviour. and manpower needs are so, different that the ‘envir-  onment can actually become hostile to the hewcomer, In his search for primary ‘education,  the African, often has to leave the small village for the large village; in his search for  sécondéry ‘education, hé ‘muat leave’ the large: viliagé for the {6Wn;, and in hig seärch for -  higher ‘education, 'hé must often leave the town’ for the elty.” Evéry timé he moves, he ac-  quires not only'a new set of skills and ideas; but also à riew ‘get of Yaètes! | “and too’ often  the skills cannot be used nor the tastes gratified in thé community from which he originally  came, ; ‘
4,6 We’ éannot’ cantly SC WE vhovelriolt towärdà the! Centres this centripetal force in  our éduchtidnal éystéïms‘is nevithbie, but wé believe’ thidt thére are ways {n'which we ‘dan  counteract some of its‘ most harmful’ “tects. For example, we ‘¢an {mprove the social  amenities and employment opportunities in our rural areas; we can establish some of our  highest institutions of learning well away from the city, as we have dorie bÿ sy placing our  Njala University Coliége in a small dommunity-120 miles. from -Fréetowni © sion is  made for the training of agricultural and home economics teachers at this institution. Wé  can set up cultural centres in rural areas (I shall return to this later), We can introduce  more rural subjects into our: .curricula at all-levels, from primary school to university,
644   Sesiones plenarias/lixenapusie sacedanua | XXIV  We can diversify thé secondary school system-not only by establishing secondary schools  throughout the country as rapidly as the national budget will allow, but also by diversify-  ing the curricula of each school to ensure that they reflect the manpower needs'of the local  community, ‘For ah urban school this would mean including commercial and teclnical sub-  jeote; for a gchool in a fishing village it would mean including: subjects such’ as’ boat-  building, net-making and fishing as is being done in a new secondary school at Shenge on  the southern coast, ,
4,7 My delégation wishes to assoolate ttaolf with the remarks ot. prévicus speakeis from -  developing countries on the critical:queation of the bottleneck between primary dnd’ ‘Bécon-  dary schools and the heavy wastage of primary schôol-léaverä'owlig to lack of aéèommo- ‘  dation in secondary schools, We strongly support the idea of establishing rural polytechnics,  farm and craft centres and rural'institutes to provide training in farmirig and useful'loéal :  trades and crafts for, the growing numbers of youth who leave the primary schools unpre-  pared to earn their livelihood, We believe that there is a pressing need for this kindof in-  stitution at this stage of our development, : : a
4,8 At the same ‘time we must not negleot our universities, the custodians of our intelleo-  tual heritage and the explorers of the frontiers of knowledge, But here, too,” new empha-  sis should be encouraged, For example, Unesco should, wherever possible, hold seminars,  symposia and training courses of a scientific or technological nature in the universities of  developing countries, : I note that Unesco selected Denmark for a training course in marine  biology last year, and invited participants from West Africa, I feel.sure that our Danish. .  friends would be the first to agree that there are good reasons, scientific as well as finan-  cial, for holding the next such training course in an area such as West Africa which has a  rich marine life, and where at least two university research institutions, jn Abidjan and .  Freetown, are active in this largely unexplored field, ‘The.same applies to related fields ;  such as agricultural education, home economics, and the natural sciences, In all of these,  Unesco can, I feel, do more than at present to assist our universities to correct the pre-  sent imbalance in favour of the arts.
4,9 There is also the problem of literacy, My country is more than 90 per cent illiterate,  so I can speak with feeling on this subject, The illiterate man is often a very good judge of  men, but he is a poor Judge of ideas because he is cut off from the mainstream of human  thought, Worse still, his productivity is low because he is cut off (from. most of the tech-  niques and skills which mankind has developed, to raise his standard : of ying ‘and ward oft’  his natural enemies,” namely poverty, fgnorance and diséase, But when 8 ‘country. is al- ‘  ready spending nearly a quarter of its national budget on institutional education, as ours is,  survey,” amon i that pe on in tot ones Ai be maa amongst Ne  farmers of Kenéna dis ‘ca  ther help from Unesco,
4,10 Finally, ‘allow me'to také together two problems; those of youth and cultuftej, ‘which 1  believe are closely related, ‘The crisis of youth; to which the Direstor-General. péférred:  so eloquently, in presenting his report earlier this month, “can;’ I suggest,’ find: at least a  partial solution in the more energeti¢ promotion of cultiiral activities, ‘A sémitär'orgañ-  ized last week'by.the' United States ‘Embassy' in ‘Paris found that thé rmost! révolutionaby stu-  dents both in the United States of America and in‘ France caine from the upper: niiddlé’ classes,  This suggests that their hunger is not physical} ‘Could itnot thén be atleast partly’ cultiral?  Do these young people riot take te the streets because we have failed to give them the oppor-  tunity not merely to appreélatebut'to/tontribute‘their own distinctive quota ‘to'oiff cultural’  heritage of art, music," the theatre, the dance; aiid of philosophic refléétion ‘41862. The' only  field in which iwe really give young people the facilities they’ deserve 1s in ‘sport -becausé we  older people know we cannot compete with them favourably,” I suggest that’ Unesco's Depart:  ments of Culture and of Out-of-School Education should study thie problem together very  carefully, Far more money should; in our view, be spentby Unesco andits' Member States -
645   XXIV Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  on providing cultural centres for young. people where they could, under the: same roof, either  carve a mask, paint a picture, hold:a political debate, play the piano, ‘take part in a play,  listen to music, or dance their own native dances, according to their own ‘particular gifts,  Perhaps then the countries of Europe and America would not Have to call out the riot squads  so often, Certainly we in Africa would. not then copy foreign cultures so slavishly, and all  of us would enrich our cultural heritage far beyond anything we can imagine at present,  Such centres would be expensive to construct, however; and here again I venture to ask.  whether Unesco, with the relatively insignificant sums it has set aside for youth and cultu-  ral activities, is really showing a proper sense of priorities? This ls a question for the  Secretariat and the Member States to consider, and which seems to have been overlooked  in document 16 C/85,: "Report on Youth",
4/11. To sum up, these seem: to be the major problems of our day and of our region, in the  solution of which Unesco can make an’ important contribution; first, the promotion of re-  glonal co-operation, secondly; the arrest of rural drift; thirdly, the reform of university  education; fourthly, the spread of functional literacy; and fifthly, the harnessing of the  intellect and imagination of our youth for the enrichment of our cultural heritage and | the  combating of social unrest, :
4.12 ‘May I end by assuring you of the great importance Sierra’ Leone attaches to Îts mem-  bership of Unesco, If we are sometimes eritical, it is precisely because we feel that it'is  not only the right but the duty ofa good member to be critical, I assure you of our continued  devotion to the promotion of education, science and culture in all their aspects, as the most  suitable means of promoting international relations, co-operation and peaceful coexistence,
4,13 I would also like, oh behalf of my delegatioh, to thank the Frérich Government and  people for the warm welcome and ¢ourtesy they have extended to us,
5.1 PRESIDENT! Co  I thank the Honourable R, B, Kowa, Minister of Education for Sierra Leone, for his  contribution to our debate.
5.2 I now call on H, In Mr, Brian Lenihan, Minister of Education of Iréland,
6.1 Mr, LENIHAN (Ireland):  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, I'intend to be brief and to confine my remarks  to a few topics,  FERS  AE  while titig the number of the commissions ‘meeting at any one time so as 5 to make it pos-  sible for smaller delegations to play a reasonable rôle inthe ‘discussions.
6.3 It is. hot easy for.an organization of the size and scope of-Unesco to devise rules of  proceduré which provide adequate opportunities for delegations from its Member States to  become actively {nvolved in every aspect of the framing of policy: without thereby hamper-  ing the work of the Organization, - The degree of delegation to the Director-General and the  Secretariat must be considerable, and the opportunity for States notrepresented on the Exe-  cutive Board-to keep in touch with developments and to seek to influence policy is mainly  afforded through participation in the General Conference,
6, i “The Diréétor- General has expressed. the. ‘view, in the Introduction to the Programme  and Budget 1969- 1970, that the system of consultations which hag been in- operation for.the  last three financial periods could probably be dispensed with'it the! Generbi- ‘Conference  were to reorganize its work so as to devoté more time and attention to the préparation of  directives concerning future programmes for his guidance and that of the Executive Board,  The Irish delegation, for its part, would be in agreement with a proposal for the maximum
646   Sesiones plenarias /Hacxapuue Jaceoanus © XXIV  degree of discussion of the future programmie in the programme sub-commiasions, ‘pro-  vided always that the sub-éommisslohs were kept to a limited numbér, * We are pleaged to  note that recommendationd made by delegations, Including the Irish delegation,’ ‘durliig the  course of discussions in the programme sub-conimissione in 1966 appear to have resulted  In satisfactory proposals in the Programme for 1969-1970, My delegation therefore wel-  comes such further improvements in this procedure as may be found feasible with a'view  to conveying to the Director-General the collective views of the Member States and, at the  same time, keeping the technical work required for the pr paration of the budget as light  as possible, thus enabling the Secretariat to devoté its time to the maximum extent to its  essential task of carrying out the approved programme,
6,5 I must, however, expross' otie' hote’ of anxiety and édricerñi, The present abrétigéréoité ‘  for‘the’ discussions ‘on’future policy’ in tiie "programttie sûb- coinmisglons would not’ meet  the case of projects already included in the existing programme which may not be ‘inéluded  in the following biennium, The same consideration applies to the question of leaving aside  certain projects, ‘during the course ‘of the ‘execution of the approved programme,’ bécause  of the inadequacy of resources to meet all commitments, ‘The Irish Natlohal Commission  has expressed {ts disappointment that a project in thé cultural section to which it confél-"  buted a'good deal of effort has not reached ‘fruition, The new budgetary arrangémérits for  costing, représenting an important advance towards full budgeting, will go far’ towards rè-  moving the second of the two difficulties which ! have mentioned, ‘ I commend the first to  the further attention of the Seérétarlat.
6,6 The percentage increases in the budget : ‘for 1969- 1970 af ‘bétween, the: ‘chapters dealing  with education, science and. culture are upiform, and result in he rneintenal ce of the ex-  isting priorities, “The factors + which’ made it ngcessary to introduce C system of priorities  have been ‘digeussed on previous Sécasions,. and’ nééd not’ ‘be. taken, up again, , The Direotor-  General, has explained. that the proportion o f projects” in the. culture éhapter which’ are still.  at an’early stage is’ relatively high, and that, accordingly, ‘thèse, projects are. less kely to  expand rapidly during’ the, ‘biennial ‘period immediately ahead, "He algo states that this chap-  ter has, since 1967,’ been under goir, a gradual and far- “reaching overhaul, The. general  Inference 1s that increased activity’ Se this area may be expected in thé near future. As  Minister for Education, I welcome these assurances, Iam well aware that a system of  priority nécessarily means more, support for ‘some ‘activities and less for others, but; 1  also consider that the promotion’ of cu fuiral activities is fundamental’ to’ educational pro-  gress, and I recognize quite’ clearly from his ‘observations that’ the Director- -Gèneral also  holds that view, It is true, in my opinion, that itis only ‘when the separate étforts, in rela-  tion to education, science and culture converge that Unesco will have achieved a full unity  of approach in this matter, - ,
6.7 The problem. of duplicaiton or overlapping. of activities, of ternational ‘organizations 1e  a source of concern for many. delegates as well as for the organizations fhemselves, *Dele-  gations to which this question causes concern are well aware that in thig, connexion: one  must never judge the book by the cover, The fact that two studies béar the i same or simi-  lar titles is scarcely prima facie evidence of duplication, The studies may have different .  aims, be based on different premises and may, be conducted on different lines; ; It must be -  accepted, nevertheless, that the possibility of duplication bétween the activities of interna-  tional organizations leading .to waste of effort and scarce resources {sa real one, unless .  precautions are taken, On the other hand, ‘the advantages of co= operation can be sd’ ‘great -  that no effort should be: spared in seeking it.- The Irish. delegation, accordingly, . welcomes  the Director- -General's attitude on this question and the extent of the co-operation in com-  mon areas of activities which it has been possible to achieve, |, … - oy ’  : 5° : ‘ 2 AR SRT! Cosh
6.8 The- problem for Unesco in Yelatiô to’ duplication arises on different. fronts,” "There is  the possibility of overlapping of functioris as between: Unesco ahd other Specialized Agen-  cies of the United Nations; and between Unesco and such regional organizations as thé Coûn-  cilof Europe and O,E/C, D, As regards the Specialized Agencies of the United Nations, the’
647   XXIV Plenary meetings /Séances plénières  Irish delegation has noted with particular satisfaction the type of arrangements for co-  operation and joint action existing between Unesco and Unicef, It is at once a tribute to the  high standing achieved by Unésco in the area of education and science, and to the wisdom  and good sense of other organizations such as Unicef that they should seek the assistance  and advice of Unesco concerning expenditure on development projects for the improvement  of the living standards of peoples in the countries concerned,
6,9 This spirit of co- operation and, rautual understanding in relation to common purposes  should also extend to the local organizations working in the individual countries towards a  common objective, and would set an example of orderly co-ordination of effort on the basis  of specialized areas of competence and responsibilities, It would also give practical appli-  cation to the proposition that expenditure on education should be treated as an investment,  and have the effect of making extra funds available to Unesco in ita efforts for the expan-  sion of educational schemes,
6, 10 As ‘far as ‘Unesco and reglonal organizations are concerned, 1 would like to express  satisfaction at the close co- operation which ‘my, delegation understands to exist between  Unesco and the Council of Europe with regard to the new Documentation Centre boing estab-  lished by, the, latter organization, The advantage of, and indeed the necessity for, close  unders standing is illustrated very clearly in this instance where a cystem of computerized  documentation fa proposed and where, accordingly, firm decisions on costing and proce-  dures made at the outset will have very long-term consequences,  problem, one a a pet being toy measures veined tn rovide thé etn of  courses ‘sifted to the new situation and thus improve the € quality ep  In this respect,’ an ‘organization such as Unésco can be of very Vyreat sérvice 2 individual  member ‘countries by collécting and making available thé accumulated knowledge and wis-  dom of 8b many different partners in the task of promoting education for thé common good,
6. 12" One of thé recomendations made at the Conference of European Ministers of Educa-  tion ‘Held in Vienna in November 1987 'iinder ‘the ayspices of Unesco, coricerned ‘the y rovi-  sion ‘ot iñtérnationally" comparable ‘dal and the ‘standardization of educational’ statistics,  terminology : and’ definitions relating’ to higher education, ‘The’ delegates’ had in mind the re-  vision and up- -dating of the very \ valuabl documentation’ prépared’ for that Conforan xe, In  this cornexidn,” I should also like to suggest that Unesco should consider the ‘question of  having the "World Survey of Education" similarly revised and brought ip to date, The many  changes in the national educational structures in the different countries which are taking  place ‘with such Fapiditÿ nécéssitate révision at relatively short périods if the publications  are to continue to make their great contribution to comparative studies ad general ‘urñider-  standing of the eddcational systems. - - ,.  DER Sd Lf
6,13: | Unésco hag avery special concern With the’ progress of éducation and hie rétothg of  the ‘steñdard, of Uving in the developing countries, ‘and the Director“Général's’ appeals in "  this regard areiall the More effective in that they Téflect the difficulties and frustrations ;  experienced in bringing about greater progress.’ The contribution which édiñtries with dif-  ferent traditions and financial resources can make to a solution of this préblem will'väry -  in accordance with those traditioris arid'resources, Ireland's people hayé| for centuries been  willing to serve in countriés all over the world as teachers, doctors, énginèers, ‘and indèed /‘  in any of the professions. Some yeärs ago,’ in‘order to contribite fo thé raising of éduca-  tional standards in developing countries, we Introduced a credit system in respect of sala-  ries for service by teachers in foreign countries, The scheme has been very successful, ’  and has encouraged more Irish citizens.to serve abroad as teachurs;. On the occasion of à  recent visit to various countries, our Prime Minister was particularly proud to'meet so -  many Irish teachers, doctors, nurses and members of other professions willingly giving  .- 648   Sesionés plenartus / sexaphue 3acedaxsa XXIV  their services for the advancement of the educational, social and economio development of  these countries, It 18 our earnest wish to be in a position to continue to give such service  in the future, Le  \ ‘ FE : ae, ' ‘ ; raf #5 4 i
6.14 Many students from developing countries still have to seek facilities for higher stu-  dies abroad, deapite.thn great efforts made by those countries in recent years to develop  their educational systems, thereby, as the DirectorrGeneral has stated on several occa- -  sions, imposing an inordinately high financial burden on their budgets, ‘Iam happy to say  that comparative statistics show that Ireland is in the forefront of European countries in  the provision of such faoiiittes. We have also participated in the Unesco programnis of  scholarships for students from these countries, and I hope that students who came to us as  scholarship holders benefited from their stay and enjoyed their sojourn among us ss much  as we enjoyed having them,
6,15 Unesco has consistently striven to bring to the notice of ybung people its aims and ob-  jectives in the cause of peace, It has promoted !nesco clubs and initiated the Associated  Schools Project,” It has undertaken a programme for the: ‘revision of school textbooks and  for the promotion of the téaching of subjects rolated to civics and International understand-  ing and responsibility, It is accordingly in a gYeclal way concerned with youth and youth  affairs, and it is therefore not surprising that (t should be particularly concerned about re-  cent student unrest and should wish to play a part in resolving the problems which have  arisen in this context,
6, 16 Unesco 18’ particularly. well qualified to play an iniportant part in relation to inquiries  in this matter, Its‘ close contacts with youth organization in different countries and its  work in the promotion of youth activities have earned tt the confidence of young people, At  the same time, its various other activities have brought it into clove contact with teachers  and administrators, and with governmental and non-governmentel organizations,
6,17 Other international organizations are also concerning themselves with this problem,  It is essential that close contact should be maintained between the various bodies and that  the relevant conferences should be carefully and thoroughly planned,
6,18 We must guard against thinking of this problem in unduly abstract terms, We mus"  not think of youth as ‘an isolated entity; we must remember that the youth of today will'be  the adults of tomorrow, and that the adults of today were the youth of yesterday, The ideal-  ism and enthusiasm of youth'are not new, and our present difficulties may have arisen from  a failure of our society to adjust itself rapidly enough to changing circumstances.  “is Pa
6.19 The enormous ‘inorease in the numbers: attending educational és tablishments.- = both: :  formal and informal coursés - inevitably calls for fresh thinking about the structures of +:  our educational institutions, and the arrangements for their control and administration, : It  would, however, ‘be: unworthy of the faith and confidence which we place in the kdvantäges:  of widespread educational progréss to doubt that it should be possible to bring about such .  adjustments as are: required in a spirit of reasonableness," responsibility and maturity o of  outlook on the part of all concerned, i : . ,  Til > t4
6.20 We are passing ‘through a transitional stage where the pace of change has been’ 80.  great as to create a sense of bewilderment and make adjustment to a new order of things  particularly difficult; : -If:youth as a whole has never before enjoyed such educational oppoi-  tunities; equally it has never been less protected from harassment and incitemert to irres-  ponsibility, We may be too ready.to forget the responsibility.of parents in this connexion,  and the rôlé of the family as an integral part of society, In the pursuit of progress and new  concepts of living we may have overlooked some traditional values,  _ sh © = ’
6. 21 In conclusion, I would like to place o n’ record the pleasure ot the Irish. delegation at  the unanimous re-election of Mr, -Maheu as Director-General,:: There could be no greater  proof of the good'sense and maturity of the Organization than that it should have shown its
649   XXIV ' Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  appreciation of his services in such a ‘spectacular way, -No one could have ackieved more  in the six.years since 1962 in the way of advancing the cause and raising the prestige of the  Organization throughout the world, He has succeeded in forming it into a highly efficient  operational organization, capable of meeting the most exacting requirements, while at the  same time never losing sight of the high ideals and aspirations which marked its:foundation  and ‘which have remained the inspiration of its policy and activities ever since, ‘: We all feel  confident that under Mr, Maheu's continued direction Unésco will go forward to even greater  successes in the future,
1. 1 PRÉSIDENT:  I thank-Mr, Lenihan, for his contribution to our debate, informing us of his country's  activities and also calling our attention to some of the problems mentioned earlier, :
1. 2 1 now call upon H,E, Dr, Gallardo, Head of the dglegation of El Salvador,
663 -   XX1v ' Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
(8.1) Mr. GALLARDO (El Salvador) {Translation from the Spanish): .  Mr. President, fellow delegates: On my own behalf and that of my delegation, I congratulate  the President of this Conference, H.E. Mr. William Eteki-Mboumoua of the delegation of Cam-  eroon, on his election to such an important office, an honour which reflects the greatest credit  not only on its recipient but upon the entire African professional and teaching body.
(8.2) ‘Ariother equally encouraging event which took place was the re-election of Mr. René Maheu  as Director-Géneral, Mr. Maheu has shown, not only that he is the person best fitted to hold the  highest position in this International Organization, but also that he is ideally equipped to secure  the irhplementation of its short-term and long-terin objectives.’ We offer him our congratulations  and best wishes. : Co
(8.3) Nor can’! rèféairi from congrâtulating the Republic: of-Méiico on its patient preparation and":  : triumphantly successful organization of the Nineteenth Olympic Gamés «- The Greeks understood.  perfectly that the, soul is to be found !! neither. in the brain nor in the sinews, ‘but in the Form" ,  That 15 0.8ay, at the point of contact between the inner world and external reality = or more sim-  ply, in Man, Thus the physical exercises and athletic competition'of the anclent Greeks weré a  combination of significant sound and gesture. The murals and amphorae, the mosales and triezes  of the Parthenon inake Us hear, as if were, thé music and the dances of those far-off dayd at the ’  same time as we' contemplafe the hdrmonfous and rhythmic movements of the human body,” The  organizers of the Nineteenth Olympiad, with a rare combination of inventiveness and historical  imagination, ‘resurrected the true spirit of the'ancient Games from the (wenty-five centuries of  neglect and oblivién {ri- which they had fallen. Finally, we corigratulate Japan and the Uniitéd States  on having obtained the Nobel Prizes for Literature and Me licine respectively. : And, last but by no ‘  means least, we offer our warmest congratulations to France, host country of the Organization,  on the award of the Nobel Prize for Peace to Professor René Cassin; there could have been no  more titting recognition of the work which Professor Cassin, my former teacher at the Faculty of  Law in Paris, has so successfully undertaken with and for Unesco ever since its foundation.
(8.4) ‘My détegal{éhi was paritcularly struck by thé Director-Général's report on the aetivitiés'àf  the Organization in 1967 and by the reports on Human Rights ini this, thé twentieth ahniversary of  the Universal Declaration; and it looks forward with keen interest to the forthcoming celebration,  ia 1970; of International Educatién Years The, reports on colénialism and racism), ‘on out-of~ °  school education and on the improvement of the status'of teachers déserve our warm and ungrudg-  - ing approval. They are serious and careful studies, and their implementation could be in no ;  better hands than those of the Director-General of Unesco, who reminded us more forcefully than  ever, in his speech at Abu Simbel on 22 September last, of the prinéiple of universality inherent  In the cultural héritage of mankind. On that occasion, the Director-General appealed to mankind  to cultivate that sense of social and moral fellowship which it is one of Unesco's principal duties  to encourage.
(815). Finally, we ¢ongratulate the Executive Board and its distinguished Chairman; H.E.'Dr.  Atilic Dell'Oro Maint, on the remarkably skilful drafting of their various recommendations to the  . General Conférence - an achievement to which the near-unanimity with which the 1969-1870 budget  was approved in plenary session bears eloquent witness: | ;
(8.6) .I now turn to the ,éducational policy of the Government of El Salvador... To begin with, it is  our policy to avoid slavish imitation of foreign systems, methods and procedures in both the  administrative and the educational sectors. We feel, moreover, that the individual mus} be fully  aware of his dignity as a human being and thoroughly equipped for modern life. The educational  system must faithfully refléct the social and economic realities of life in El Salvador: The worker  must be efficient, ‘and therefore we must eschew curricüla of an over-intellectual type. My.  government is endeavouring to arrest the excessive trend towards university careers. On 20  September 1967 we established a Teachers' Welfare Department, which has been fully operative  since January 1868 and is responsible for everything connected with social assistance or benefits  to teachers. Our educational system aims at producing a type of citizen equipped for life in El  Salvador as it is today; and to this end we are proposing to reorganize the graduation system into  seven different classes, Educational television and programmed learning are being introduced on  an experimental basis :
(8.7) We are spending 25.68% of our national budget on education = 7:3% more than in’the last  budget. Of the amount appropriated to educational purposes, 58.4% is spent on primary educa-  tion, 9.9% on secondary and higher education, 17.7% on university education and the rest on  varlous other sectors. -
(8,8) ! was happy to be able to'partièipäte in the various Working groups and meetings of the Inter-  arr  between school and home is vital to the well-being of our children.
(8.9) Having been preserit at the recent meeting of the Programme Commission at which the re-  port on educational planning was approved, we take this opportunity of offering our sincere con-  gratulations to Professor Coombs, Director of the International institute for Educational Planning,  on the successful accomplishment of his task, to which he applied himself with his customary effi-  clency and zeal. )  ; EE IY Ga PE PE te 1 AF I -
(8.10) I should like to mention a point which has not, 1 belleve, received detailed treatment during  the present Conference, . Educational problems differ according as they refer to adyanced or  developing countries» - Educational systems are not adaptable to the particular economic needs of  new societies. In neither case can the ordinary State budget bear the increases demanded by expen-  diture on education, the cost-efficiency gap absorbing on an average one-éighth to one-fifth of  national resources. In the advanced countries, there are fewer people productively employed than  there are young people of school age. The latter Invariably predominate In relation {o total  population. . ; . . .
(8,11) If education is to be made more.cost-effective,,new techniques and uprto-daté management  are needed. ;Profesgor Edward Denison estimates in his recent study that, in the United States,
23% of the. growth index of the economy as a whole, and 42% of the increase in production per  worker, are attributable. to education.’ With some adjustments, these data hold true of Latin  - America, where Professor T. W. Schultz considers that 72% of the increase in agricultural pro-  duction between 1912 and 1949 is attributable to certain ! residual’ factors unconnected with the  . ordinary means of production. The most important of these "residual! factors is education. The  corresponding percentage increase in the gross national product attributable to education was 45%  for Brazil and 50% for Mexico.
(8.12) This leads us to conclude, first, that investment in education is a highly. productive and  paying proposition. This is true: but only if we accept a second conclusion, no less certain than  the first, which is that many years must elapse before such an investment shows any material  return, ’ ;
(8.13) It is not enough simply to direct the present generation of students into new channels or  speed up their courses of study. This is the intractable problem with which the. newly independent  countries are having to grapple. The colonial powers bequeathed to them, in most cases, nothing  more than a reasonably well-educated - and indeed cultivated - élite. But such an élite is a limited  group which finds itself subjected to à great many political pressures, both internal and external,  and which {8 numerically quite tnadequate. It is enough to say that the effect. of education on the  economy as a whole ls conditioned by the ineluctable fact that the children who are being born today  will attend primary school between 1975 and 1982, secondary school between 1982 and 1986 and the
665-   XXIV ; Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  university between 1986 and 1980, Today's infants will be the fully*fledged workers of the early  twenty~first éènturys And thus there arises, in its acutest form, the problem of national unity in  the néwly- independent countries. -
(8.14) There. is a further point on Which all the experts agree, and that le that education, in both  the advanced and the developing countries, must be liberal and of high quality. It is admitted on  all sides that "education is the principal ingredient of success" . For poor people and those of  limited means a complement of education - especially at the primary level - is undoubtedly an  immense advantage. '  pute  (a. 16) One final point must be made st we are ‘to realize the ‘width of the gap. between rich and poor  countries. In the last fifteen yeara, :gchool attendance. has doubled and public expenditure on educa-  tion has risen by 6.5% per annum in the industrialized countries and by, 12.1% in the developing  countries. In spite of this progress, one-third of all the children in the world do riot go to school,  and although the world proportion.of illiterates (an estimatéd.37%).1s diminishing, the absolute  number of those who, cannot read is rising steadily and will reach 809 millions In 1970. Two fac-  tors contribute to this poor outcome. First is the population explosion, on which I need not com-  ment as the situation is known to us all. The second factor is less well-known« It is the fact that  children receiving primary education in the developed countries (60% of the school-age population)  leave school before they have acquired a sound and enduring foundation of knowledge.
(8. 16) There fs) no ; doubt that we, ‘are, witnessing a rapid expansion in wprid education, but’ we must  not allow this'fact to blind us to the true = and tragic - state of affairs. Thus, while worid expen-  dituré on education is of the order of $100, ‘900 million, the amount spent on education in the devel-  oping’ countries, with : a total population three tines the size of that of the developed’ countries, 1s  only $10,000 motion, ( ,
(8.17) ‘I now come to the crix of the Cotes crisis in world education: The {ndistriaiized coun-  tries are goyerned bye a system of classical and traditionalist education. The same is true of the  developing countries ow hg’ {4 the Weight" of'ariétent tradition ‘and the faét of pre-established facili-  lies; In both groupé of’ rations. we’ aré wiinessing a'érisié in eduéation ahd a failure of traditional  “structures to'meëèt contemipo ary féduitéments." ‘In‘both casés, the field of education is not meet-  ing thé challenge of écoliomic and social'nécessities .’ Thesé are the economic ard social causes  which largely explain thé lack of an adequate supply of manpower to meet the demands of economic  development among so many peoples and nations. |  : Cae :
(8. 18) Hére 1 ay miénéto” d'report “avbrltted by” ECLA ‘to the United: Nations’ Eronéitie and Social  Counéil tr July’ 1964; which’ stated that both’ imports pér inhabitant'and Home ‘production ‘of goods  and sérvicés’ have tended 16 decreadé in Latin’ America dtnèe 1863 “According 16’ ECLA! 8’ data,  the various Latin’ Amétlean ééonomies were proving uñâble to absorb productively the incréasé in  the Industrial labous force préduced by the drift ‘away from’ ageiculord: Notwithstanding’ thé un- ~  deniablé Incréadd in Latti j'en ‘industiial activity," ré are'not' managing. to’ oveféome chronic  stagnation and the pérpetual agrariañ crises. Between 1950'and 1961, the adverse’ térme. of trade  as between primary and manufactured products meant à 17% loss, egütvalsnt to $10, 000 million,  for Latin’Amerlca. ’ In the dane period, the Infléw of foreign capital (including Telrivesirhent)  totalled $9;600 million. "However; trdnsfers of funds abroad during this périod totalled $13,400  milljon and thid resultéd in an’ ènôérmoüs deficit in the balance of ‘payments thus the’ erosion of  national capital has: peraisted dé a’ chronic evil, undermining the monetary and financial’ stability  - of the covintries in question’ ’ Thése figures make it easy to understand how closely thé’ question of  education 1s bound up with that ‘of à new strategic aprroach to agriciltural developmént, in the  ‘form of technical assistance and training. The burdens imposed upon our countries by foreign  debt cannét bé removed until thé importing countries’ establish. a system of preferential { tariffs for  our exports.
(8:19) Let ua'noW turd traf’ this écéumulation of figuras! to the psychélogical probiém facing the  nations, which has béén'déscribéd th ‘termè ranging from "events: té others ‘suggesting revoiis,  revolutions or merély the awakenifig of youth: Theré'is no denying’ that"ÿotith Wishes to ‘participate  in the political and cultural life of the community at an earlier age than was the case with my  generation. But there is no reason why this should not be brought about as the result of an imme-  diate and prolonged ‘dialogue within the existing framework of society : ‘The Juiverstlies for their  part, must erideävour to iñvolVé themseives still more deeply in thé life of the nation; even to the  "point of embracing, should it prove necessary, the ‘entire spectruri of thé pâtion* & professions  and activities.” , N ; ;
(8. 20)" 1 shoild now Mike to refer very briefly td thé’ character ot the’ student rebellion 1 tn’ Latin  America, which I belleve to be something quite different from what is taking place in Europe and  the United States. Now that dutoriomy is the rule in the majority of universitiés, Latin American
666   Sesiones plenarias / xen puoe 3acedanus XXIV  students are demanding access to positions of importance. in society: If we take into account the’  fact that Man's life cycle is extyemely brief and that precocity is one of our characteristics, thé  seriousness of the problem will be realized. Our young poople maintain that the university hag,  become a bulwark of conservatism and that the important positions i in, society are by way of being  monopolized by their elders, What ‘We are witnessing,’ in fact, 8 an awakening of student aware-  ness: but youthful unrest has now: become universall” The university, which 16 the’ ‘receptatle for  all this unrest, has shown that it 18 out of touch with the life of the nation:
(8.21) In its report on youth, Unesco hag indicated its desire to, play 8 a full part in the spose  reforms. As for my own government, it proclaimed | 1968 a8 a Gof nmemorative y year in onour of  Alberto Masferrer, who ‘was born {n'a small Salvadorian town with the evocative namie of Ale, egrfa  in 1868 and died at San Salvador in'1932. The gulding theme of his’ career on edrth could be’ ëx-  pressed a=." to improve the child fn order to transcend the man” . ‘He was à true precuréor of the  literacy work on which Unesco has now embarked. Let me conclude: by repéating these vérses in  which, with exquisite cansitivity, Masferrer reminds us that Man's childhood and youth are often  muddied and darkened by lack of knowledge; but that men in their prime or old age fail in turn to  share with théir fellow-men the knowledge they have acquired because they lack the gerierous and  unselfish vitality which ia éharacteristic of youth:  " Darkness envelop'd once the. infant's head:  A man now, from his heart the light hath fled,"  I solemnly request that,” ‘through Unesco and our respective governments, we may inittate a dia?  logue with the youth of today for the sané and proper purpose of improving the individual and the  society in which we live, for the good of all the peoples on earth. Thank you, Mr. President.
9.1 PRESIDENT: ‘  Thank you Dr; Gallardo, for your most interesting information on education and pro-  ductivity in your country,
9.2 I have pleasure in calling on H, E, Mr. Wynter, Minister of State in the Ministry of  Education of Jamaica,
10,1 Mr, WYNTER (Jamaica): ;  Mr,, President, I am pleased to join my colleagues in congratulating you on your elec-  tion as President of this Conference, Iam sure that it is no exaggeration to say that your  inspiring leadership has already stimulated us all, and we are grateful f for it,
10.2 May 1 also join in the welcome to ‘the delegation from Barbados; ‘our ‘124th: merhber.  This gives us in Jamaica particular pleasure, since Barbados is a distinguished leader in  our Caribbean.community and shares with us a common heritage ; and history a and many, of  the problems of the’ developing countries in our area,’ while her citizens’ have 8 a. ‘proud rè-  cord in éducation and in service to their fellow- -men. "I am certain that the participation of  Barbados in the work of Unesco will be à source of inspiration to us all,
10,3.‘May I also sdy a word of thanks and congratulation to the members of bur Executive  Board and to‘the Director-General and his staff for the excelleht arrarngenients which havé  ‘been madé for this Conferencé, The thoroughness of the preparations and the remarkable  production of helpful studies and papers have, I belleve, helped us greatly in keepihg to our  time-table by more purposeful and hence briefer contributions not only in the genéral de-  bate but in all the corumissions and sub-commissions.  FL tr TO Dr NY
10. 4 This, Mr, ‘President, 1s International: Human Rights Year, and you will therefore  forgive me if I make reference to this subject,” especially as it was my country which, on  its entry into the United Nations:iri 1962, proposed that 1968 should be observed throughout  the world in this way. . We had hoped, Mr, President, that there would have been a very: :  great effort throughout the world to imiprove the enjoyment ôf rights by people. ‘everywhere;  at the very least, we had hoped that there would have been significantly féwer cases of vio-  lation of rights, Unesco has played a significant part in the production of excellent publi-.  cations on apartheid and racial prejudice And other working papers and-algo by organizing  meetings of experts on cultural rights as human rights, and oh other related subjects. ! I:
667   XXIV + Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  believe that we have.succeeded this ÿear in creating a greater awareness of these rights,  but alas!" the apostles of hurndii rights and civil rights have at times’ endangered them by  the ‘violence ‘of their 'dernonstrations and the destructiveness of thelr protests, * And, at  other. ‘timès, the harshness of ‘their demand has’ induced violent reaction and repression by  outraged citizens through their governments, In South Africa and Rhodesia, moreover,  millions of people are denied their rights because of race.
10.5 ‘As a result, our distinguished Director-General, Mr. Mahe,’ ‘has reminded us in  sombre language that, for the most part, ‘this Human, Rights Year has witnessed increased  violations and regressions, that expedience on a national and international scale has tri-  umphed over justice and rights, and that technocracy, that is the rule of scientific techno-  logy, reigns supreme over rights and other abstract virtues and'ideals.
10.6 My delegation, agrees with. the. Director-General when he points to the lack of any co-  herent ideology behind Human Rights. The diversity of interpretations. given to the vague  principles in the Declaration of 1948 is a grave example of this deficiency. Can it be, Mr.  President, that in our deliberations in the international councils of the world, we have  been paying too much attention to the forris'and wordings of our declarations and covenants,  and too little to their ratification and implementation? In any event, it is significant that the  the two covenants on ecoñomic and social rights and on civil and political rights have been  signed by very few countries and ratified by none.
10.7 Mr, President, the gap between "promises" and "fulfilment" in this vital field will  certainly continué to aggravate tensions. If, during this International Human Rights Year,  we fall as countries even to decide to ratify these covenants, then we will have failed to -  ignite so much as a spark of hope in the hearts of the many people whose future depends to  a great extent on our words and our action.
10.8 Among the subjects suggested by the Executive Board for this debate is the " prob-  lems of youth, with particular reference to those concerning the nature and function of  higher eduéation in contemporary society". Already we have heard some iniportant staté-  ments from our fellow delegates oh this subject. We will not soon forget thé interesting  speech by the French Minister of Education, Mr. Faure, on thé problem of the young stu-  dent, and it was the Director-General who included " Youth" in what he called the four  crises = the others being development, education and Human Rights.
10.9 The protiminér: 7 study,’ ‘" Report on Youth" , “in document 15 c/ 65 is an interesting  survey of the ‘problems and, although it is admittedly provisional, it says enough to shock  us into accelerating the programmes of this Organization.
10.10 I do not believe that we should assume, on-the other hand, that the events of the |  last year, engineered mainly by students .and other young people, are a justifiable and in-  controvertible. condemnation of the policies which we have adopted at the national and inter-  national levels. Rather, they are an indication that we have been too late in starting and  are doing too little in our programmes.
10.11 And here again, Mr. President, we must note that, whereas in the developing coun-  tries our problems are bound up with the rising birth raté and rising expectations; in the  developed countries it is the birth rate whichis declinitig while frustration and boredom '  are increasing.’ This antithesis does not suggest that family planning leads to boredom,  but it-is.a fact that, in the developed Societies, the ‘young people who are the beneficiaries  of all the economic and technological development of the laët 20 yéars are bored and frust-  rated. They feel they are not: participating and can make no contribution and hence they  turn against the establishment... As one writer in a developed society puts it, "We are now  living in a time when the central institutions of: the traditional life of man are Increasingly  unable to command his allegiance and his obedience’ .
668   Sesiones plenarias /aexapuoe 3aceoands XXIV
10,12 The Report in document 15.C/65 attempts.to explain this, and it is. gratifying to  note that the Director-General hag invited delegations to take part in a consultation on  Thursday of- this week to discuss "ways of Increasing « and improving the participation of  youth in the fmplementation of Unesco's programme”  ey 0 ; A re oh
10. 13. But is it not sad to reflect that very. often 1 we’ ‘become militant apostles of ‘change -:  only in response to violent behaviour and demonstrations by the young? ‘Are we.to’ bel  that violence is the only justification for change and thie: only spur to action? Surely Mr: :-  President, one of the major tasks of this Organization of ours is to assist the world.to use  education itself as an instrument of social:and economic change by other than violent ;  means.’ May I also remind the Conference that because of the magic of modern éommuni-  cation media our young people in the develop! ng societies have almost certainly been affec-  ted by information about student action in the developed societies. Since our major prob-  lems continue to be poverty and unemployment and their _gocial concomitants, At’ 18 more  than probable that student revolt in imitation of the developed societies will, in a peculiar  expression of neo-colonialism, obtain violent support and co-operation from the poor and  the illiterate. . .
10.14. History has ‘shown vs, Mr. President, that, the frustrated but privileged can, make  dangerous bedfellows with the poor, desperate. and ambitious. It will be too late when they  themselves realize that the very state whose security they endanger is the only effective .  machinery for change.
10.16 Hence, as, 1 believe that our ‘work in Unesco. is prévention. rather. then cure,’ a le  right for us to dévote much study : add research to new social and ‘educational hümnan tech"  niques, but we have not mich time. The answer to what is’ likely to happen in five years'  time must be found and épplied now, and if the youth demonstrations have done’ nothing else,  they have certainly brought home to us the urgency of our task.
10.16 In-1966, at ‘the’ ‘fourteenth’ session of thé GereFal' Confe rence; whi hoping that;  in addition to its educational films, Unesco should draw. up’ a definite’ programnié, to pro-  duce cinema and T, v. films. providing’ à full couise in natural and techiological silarices '  and in agriculture, as well as general instruction in thie’ new, mathematics said "The  common colonial past of the Bets of ‘déveloping countries, ‘makes it easy, | pecdtiéé. of the’ .  similarity of their eduéatiorial systems, for à ‘single science course fo be ‘effective 1 ina  series of countries. But I should like to stress again the need for relating the, courses ,Ç  more closely to the environment ‘of the developing countries rather than following’ too ‘close-
1y the traditional paiterns ‘from which their systems, of education have been derived" ,
10.17 In répéating the 1 two simple but ‘important ‘proposals’ Mr. “President; may f also,  point out that the university crisis in the developed countries, where students. have been.  questioning the relevance of existing disciplines and courses, has now “vedched the develop-  ing societies, and this is all to the good! We in those’ countries cannot afford to wait for  half'a century before Teorganizing university education so as to satisfy the ‘neds of society,  while bearing in mind the’ need to educate the individual not ‘only to work 4n‘his soclety, but  ta "lve" effectively’ int.”
10, 18 I was grateful to Mr. Prentice of the: United Kingdom for reminding. us. all that  when there is a divorce between the university and employment needs - as frequently. hap-  pens even in some of the developing countries -.! the.scarce resources devoted to educa-"  tion and training. yield a very low return’, It is a sad fact that the system encourages the  young graduate to look only to research and very often to irrelevant research. This, in .:  turn, in our developing society, ‘leads to.a !' gap" ‘between the ‘university man and the rest:  of society, a gap which neither is eager to bridge. The " gap" of misunderstanding then  leads to frustration and in the unsettled atmosphere progress itself is retarded. BEE
10:19 But there. 18 ‘one further n role" of the university in developing societies. to “which  attention must be drawn. It is the inculcation in the students of their responsibility to .
659   XXIV Plenary meetings / Séances plénières  serve the community which has sacrificed so-muéh iñ'oùder-to train‘thèni Unless’ ways’  are found to do'this effectively in'the newer countries; ‘then, : Mr: President, we will lose -  the dynamics of social‘action; and imaginative: ideas for development will continue to come  from outside via technical assistance. For while technicallassistance:has been ésgential  to us, surely, Mr: President, it is the objective of technical assistance programmes to  eliminate the need for technical assistance and promote development to the stage of techni-  cal co-operation. ‘I believe you will pardon me if I again take this opportunity to point ‘out  that informal technical coroperation already takés place through the "brain drain” from  the developing to the devéloped countries. ‘But this 18 haphazard and uncontrolled and of  little short-term benefit to the poorer countries.’  SETI , Ève x 700 HE ay
10.20 And 1 ine context of educational rating and’ tonique may I, au otter dele=  gates, refér to'the’ ‘problem’ of iäiddie-level Manpower! we would like to hilyé’ Beg’ a less ’  modest’ provision ih the adult ‘éducation’ sectiok'of ‘the draft programmé for Unéséolz'  involvement in’ this problém.’ We belleve that @ higher priority should be given to'the  training and status’ of intermediaté manpower.’ In'devéloped as well as developing ‘couri~  tries these people have not been given the consideration they deserve. Their rôle ‘in mod-  ern societies is either not given thought or at best fo considerably under-rated. These are  the doers arid technicians without whom’ modern sélence and technology cannot function.  The skills and the attitudes that the bring to the task of ‘applying sclence and techñology  to industrial and social development détermine suècess or failure :  Co i
10.21 -And now, Mr. Fresident, may I saw a few words on the second Development | Decade  from the! point of, view of ‘man'and the evelopment’ of uhh rélolirces , ° tis’ ébylous that’  our goals and. policiés’ ‘for thé second Decade’ ¢ must’ flow from ‘an ‘exathination of the ‘expéri-  ence’ of the’ fret . ‘Jamäica!: ë experience during! the first Decade’ ‘has not Been unlque, anid |  so there my be some point in ‘generalizing | frôm our’ exp erlence’. The. lessons of the’ first  Decade appear to be: (a) that aid has been too little ‘and often too late; (b) that human"  resources may constitute an important | bottleneck in development - - due, to scarcity ‘ of .  skills - hence the’ realization that education is ‘as’ much a mâtier of éconémie as ot social  development; “(c) “that the ‘communication’ of techniéal ‘knowledge is aithqult, | 80 that new  knowledgé must be’ ‘assimllatéd'and adjusted t to the level of understanding | inthe; Fecelving -  society; at the'satie time, receiving socléty must ftself générate tec hnological changés in  view of the high rate of obsolescence of imported téchnologyi, (d); that economie develop- ’  ment ahd growth do riot necessarily guarantee the solution ¢ of all b ind problems - - "espe  cially unemployment; ‘(e) that the problem of excess population cannot bes ‘delved by émig-  ration since emigration “outlets are not’ dependable and’ selective, migration results in brain  drain or loss of Bcarce ‘skills; (f)' that cultural devélopmeént arid the identification and  preservation of the cultural heritage are a basic element of development - .embracing econ-  omie, social and educational activities and contributing t to national’ ‘pride. ‘and ‘mystique  without which nations cannot endure, . …,
2. P ‘ [ET Fes 110 i Lira 43  des  development strategy including a frontal attack on this problem; net higher sent, ‘for |  investment in human resources through education; including functional litéracy; (c) grea-  ter:attention to the problem of distribution of the fruits of development; (d) greater‘em-.  phasis on relating technological development in ‘developing countries to resouréés and the  stimulation of research In technologÿ in the‘ countries themselves; . (è) ‘greater attention  to assistance to, and co-operation with,’ developing: countries which have no ancient cul-  tural monuments but are seeking to identify their cultural heritage . n
10.23. May € How MF, President; Teter to two of thes pitortties! in thé Jamaican contéxt.  Our long-range educational planning is now being geared to assure: (1) adéquate primary  secondary school places for all; so that general education will facilitate greater cultural  development; (2) adequate training in the industrial and agricultural skills needed to meet
660   Sesiones plenarias / Msenapuue 3acedansa XXIV  the requirements. of the economy; (3) the training of the necessary number of taachers to  satisfy. the demands of educational expansion. Co : ;
10. A But these are. long-term goals}. ‘already the shortage of trained teachers is. most  acute and it is suggested that, in addition to other programmes, Unesco might assist  through arrangements for subsidizing the transfer of teachers and the phasing of school  programmes between those countries with an adequate supply of teachers, and those  without, so as to deploy the world's teaching force more rationally.
10, 25° ‘Over, a ‘century ago,. ‘Henri Christophe, ‘the ‘third President, of the. then ‘rowiyr. ts  independent | Heiti, drove his people almost savagely to build monuments of stone, ;of. which  the citadel remains today as a reminder of this man's ambition and ‘greatness. . When ; Gg  asked by an English admiral why he was ‘extending scarce resources and so much human :  energy on his monuments, Christophe 18 reported to have replied that.the English had,  their battles, their castles and other monuments to remember and give them pride; his  people had only the confused memory. of their slavery, and so he had to build in order that  their descendants would have something to remember, . ‘
10,26, We in Jamaica. have’ been ‘engaged, ‘especially since our ‘indépendénice, in in Jools  into our “cultural ‘fieritage | in order to identify it more accurately and hence, in ini 8  phrase, provide our people with things | to remember. Unesco! 8 assistance in this respect  would be one of the most effective ways of implementing the fourth. ‘paragraph of the Pre-  amble to its Constitution and carrying out one of its main functions as stated in Article 3
10.27 We ‘should Like fo] propose that Unesco ‘give, ‘éoñsideratiori to, lating in the ' estab-  IRR  lishrent of, à sgientific Javdratory br in Jamaica wid seek and devise new’ ‘methe not Pl preserv-  Jamaica, ‘and pce Arcs excavation of an area just off the coast of | pint ematen:  where At is believed caravels "of Christopher Columbus may be lying. “This” area’ was, loca-  ted by’ means’ of Tightly specialized electronic equipment invented by, Dr. Harold Edgerton  of the Massachusetts Institute. of Technology. I need not’ stress the. historical importance  to the wholé world of such findings, | since there is not, as far as We know, à a ‘single ‘signi-  ficant’ relic ina an museum in the world that can be associated ‘with Columbus, . Thèse -  findings would in effect be the ‘first tangible evidence of Columbus!’ visits to the New World.
10. 28° ‘The’ ‘arfitacts already discovered at Port Royal have aroused ¢ our ‘inbofest: in’ find  appropriate ‘preservation techniques . This sunken éity is éonsidered by : many to be the 3  most important marine penta site in the Western Hemisphere, and successful’  ioe  Re
10.29 Three hundred years later, in 1965, my government began excavations, and, Although  work has govered only five per ‘cent of the total area, the archaelogical ‘results have al-  ready béen fantastic,” Whole houses have beëñ located under the water, fine ‘eXamples of  pewter and silverware have been recovered, and in fact, I am told that more artifacts  have been retoveréd thus far than from all the shipwrecks which have been excavated  throughout the Western Hemisphere during the past twenty years: - - Sen
10.30 But the problem, Mr.'President, is that the present techniques of:presgérvation are  inadequate to deal satisfactorily with these antiquities which were exposed to tropical ma-,  rine conditions. I shall append to this statement a description of the technical difficulties,  and I need only add, ag I am pleased to do; that the Unesco Secretariat has already shown.  a great deal of enthusiasm for these projects ..'I agk my colleagues.in this Conference and
661°   XXIV ‘ Plenary meetings / Séance's plénières  on the Executive Board to support this archaeological campaign and in particular to‘estab-  lish a laboratory for research into preservation techniques; ds the results will be of im=  mense international significance and cultural impact. Archaeology of the period following  the mediaeval age is’a field only recently regarded as of interest and worthy of pursult,  and we bélleve that Port Royal and the possible find ‘of Columbus' ships will be of interest  to scholars’ and students throughout the world. +
10.31 And now turning tô thie ‘question of National’ Commissions, 1t'1 18 our beliet that thé"  greater the effectiveness of these, the greater will be the effectiveness of international  action and to-éperation through Unesco: For thia reason we have supportéd those wHo *  have câlled for a greatel percentage ‘of Unesco’ s budget tô be devoted to dé=dperation ‘with  National ‘Commissions » We support thé principle of the National Commissions because this  is the: -machitiery devised to ensure participation not only at the governmental lèvel but  among ‘citizens ready and willing to help.  CaF  can also be true in cases where everything is done for a hey without that country parti-  cipating in the dévelopiient plans and their implementation, - I shall not ‘Gontinup to run the  ‘risk, Mr, President; of provoking a revolt among my Colleagues by a too lengthy’ address .  I should just like to rémind this Conference that our major’ task in all our plans must be to  seek to harness the enthusiasm and energy of youth to the experience and maturity of our  leaders and éther citizens. °°  EAN  district to se city and ae a to the Fiation, and the nation "to Hk interhational séene - =  Ho  eG But, Mr. President, I am optiniatio enough to beliéve ‘that our world may be’ pass-  ing through what S:. John of the Cross called "the dark night" of its soul and that we have  rarely had a greater opportunity to save our ‘world. The challenge is clear and the timé is  now, 2° ; EE
10. 34 T close’ with the. words of that great ‘martyred’ ‘Civil Rights lgader, the. Tate Br. EU  Martin. ‘Luther King, replying to those - :who argued that time will solye everything, he said  "There. is an answer to the, ,myth of time: It is that time is noutral,’ it cañ ‘be. used ‘either  constructively or destructively ... Now is the time to make real thé promises’ of ‘demo-  kidd now is the time to make justice and freedom realities for all of God's children" .
11 “ithe PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr. Wynter, for your wide-ranging, forceful and eloquent contribution.
11.2 T now call upon Mr: Said Abdul Khaïr Al Noban to speak in the name of the People! 8  Republic of Southern Yemen, ue - ce SR
12, 1--Saeed-Abdul Khaïr‘ AL-NOBAN (République populaire du Yémen du Sud). - (Dis¢ours  pronohcé en arabe, - Transoription de l'interprétation, ) -  ‘Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, “maintenant que hous con-  naissons'le vént de la liberté, “que nous savons ce'qué sont la souveraineté et 1'indépendance  d'un pays; je vous apporte, au nom du peuple de la République populaire du Yémen du. Sud,
662   Sasiones plenarias / Haenapuoe s0c60onva XX  le salut de ceux qui ont combattu sur les monts de Radfan - ces monts qui ont vu là pre-  mière échauffourée de la révolte contre l'océüpant et qui sont'restés embrasés jusqu'au -  moment où le colonisateur a été expulsé, en dépit de sa force, de sa stratégie et dé ses  armes modernes, Nous; peuple de la République populaire du Yémen du Sud,’ nous avions ‘  foi en la vie’ libre et digne, et cette foi a été plus forte que’ les armes de l'occupant, ’  I ; cao
12.2 C'est ui grañd, hônnéirr pour 1a’ République populaire. du’ Yémeni. ‘dh Sid que arêtes  membré de l'Uneseo” et ‘de pouvoir exprimer. ici ses idées en ‘toute ‘inérté’ et ofiginalité, ’  Nous en ‘sommes, à “juste titre, fiers et hetireux, Voilà lé sens ‘de l'indépendanée, pout  laquelle hous’ ‘avons lutté, pour laquelle nous nous sor mes sacrifiés, L'Gécüpant | a quitté.  notre pays ‘d'une façon : que le ‘monde n avait jamais vue, ‘car il a tout ‘simplement’ fil, En ’  reprenant’ notre place ‘parmi les pays frères du mondé, nous nous engagéons envers tous  ces pays à poursuivre dans la même voie et à nous attacher aux ‘principes de cette Orga-  nisation en ce qui conçerne la défense des droits de l'homme et la promotion de la com-  préherision entre les peuples pour assurer la paix, Nous défendons tous ces principes sur  les bases du droit et de la justice ‘et sans Hypocrisie où détour aucuns,
12.3 Qu'il me soit poimia, Monsieur le Président, de rappeler. ici certaines.règles géné-  rales, notamment que les principes et les idéologies sont faciles à établir et que c'est la.  phase d'exécution. qui suscite des points de vue contradictoires et souvent des oppositions,  Je suis convaincu que c'est en oeuvrant avec sincérité et en étant décidés à appliquer de  tout coeur ces principes et ces idéologles que l'on peut effectivement atteindre les fins  visées,
12,4 Pendant les quatre jours que j'ai passés au sein de cette Organisation, j'ai vu s'exer-  cer beaucoup d'activités hah tenderit toutes d'assurer là dt J lai étiidie’ les nombreux pro-  Le  le oir. ALE lès 3 pélibipoe a eon Il y a à cet gard des’ 5 sacrilèges, ét l'on pout  voir Totarament, quel mépris’ et ‘quel dédain manifeste’ ‘pour les ‘chokes’ ‘säcrées le gang’  ieraélien qui” pce la Palestine. La ‘dernière manifestation d'ironte d'Israël; ld dernière ;  er Trin  cation le pat programmes sehtant, lov duit a les écoles de j'UNRWA) ’ math avait ‘simplement  interdit 1'emploi des Uviés conténarit des appels à la haine; & l'animosité et à la rancoeur,  - Que de mensongés et de tromperies !
12.5 Qui done äccepterait de croire qu'Israël tient à voir les enfants palestiniens recevoir  une éducation. adéquate, . alors qu'il a créé la situation anormale. d'aujourd'hui, qu'il a chassé  de leurs maisons.ces enfants et leurs parents, qu'il les a ‘spoilés de. leurs droits. et a dé-  truit leurs foyers ? . Comment Israël, qui, .par ses actes, a. rempli le coeur de ces, eiifants  de haine et de désir de vengeance, - pèui- -il aujourd'hui prétendre arrêter cela Pa st agit- il,  de sa part, d'un sentiment de culpabilité ? Je ne le crois pas : Israël ne 'connaft pas ce’  sentiment. C'est la haine pure et simple, c'est l'esprit de vengeance qui, en fait, anime  Israël ; evIsradlessaie dé trouver un prétexte à son attitude dans les principes de l'Unesco,
12, 6° C'est pourquoi -nous-fnvitons-la commission chargéé d'étudier les programmes dans’  les écoles de l'UNRWA à tenir compte de ces faits et à sauvegarder le patrimoine culturél  arabe et l'héritage de la Nation arabe, Cette commission a une grande responsabilité et  les résultats de son action seralent gravément dffectés siiles sentiments, les émotions et
1'ingtruction de ces éhfants se trouvaient détournés dans le sens que désire Israël; ! Car  l'essentiel dû programme ‘destiné par l'UNRWA a ces enfants vise à leur permettre d'être  des enfants arabes par la pensée,‘ la culture, la: religion, l'histoire," et à ranimer en eux  le séns de'l'action humaine; - : +: SITE
663   XXIV te Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
12,7 Monsieur le Président; après avoir’étudié. le-Projet de budget pour 1969-1970, ‘je  tiens à-dire que. le Gouvernement de-la République populaire.du Yémen du Sud en'accepte  les grandes lignes, en partant du-prinoipe que l'action de cette organisation et des autres  organisations internationales doit permettre de sortir, comme il convient, des crises arti-  ficielles où se trouve plongé le:monde actuel, : Les projets à long terme doivent permettre  l'interaction et le rapprochement conscient entre les peuples, L'esprit de fraternité et  d'amitié doit nous diriger. et, lorsque nous approfondissons l'objet de réunions telles que  la présente ‘seésion de la ‘Conférence’ générale, lorsque nous ‘exéminons des! ‘programmés |  objectifs, ainsi quéla’ stratégie qui permet de les mettre a exécution, nous tendong à créer!  une société ‘internationale dominée par l'esprit de fraternité et de paix, ‘par la morale  et lés vertus et non pas par la loi de la’ jungle - une société où l'on respecte tous les indi-  vidus pour leur valeur et eur travail, sans aucune discrimination fondée sur la race, la  couleur, la religion ou la langue,
12,8" ‘Les ‘projets qui” ont ‘sournis § pour étude y la Sou: :Gommission réduicttioi de iä Com-  mission du programmé méritent, “d'etre exaririés de “près,” ‘dléutant plus qu'ils jettent u ne -  vive lumière sur les besoins des pays développés ‘et des pays en voie de développement. Le  développement des programmes d'alphabétisation; l'éducation rurale, l'éducation des filles  - toutes céa activités sont de nature à modifierld vie dansles paÿs'en'voie'de développement  et à permettre'à ces pays de’ progresser vers leur épanouissement, à une époque où 14 techno-  logie etla science rendent l'évolution particulièrement rapide, Ce quel'on peut déjà distin-  guer à travers les discussions qui ont’éu lieu, c'est que l'on éssaie de combler le fossé qui  existe actuellement entre les pays développés et les pays én voie de développement, de  même que, sur le plan régional, on essaie de combler le fossé existant entre les villes et  les zones rurales. À mon avis, c'est un travail qui mérite d'être encouragé et poursuivi,
12,9 Les éludés quientreprend l'Unesco dans le domairie de la planification de l'éducation  présentent des ‘avantages conaidérables,: ‘qui se reflétent dans, l'intérêt grandissant que nous  observons ‘chez Jes Etats membres. pour, ces études, .çompté ténu des’ garactériatiques lo-  cales, Je puls ‘assurer que les étudés faites par les. centres. régionaux en vue dure plani-  fication de l'éducation, ainsi que, par l'Institut international de planification de l'éducation,  méritent de, retenir toute. notre’ attention. Il me faut poser, en principe, à propos de ces, |,  études, que le processus ‘d'éducation, qui concerne” ‘essen tiellement l'enfant, a sa source.  dans yne politique régionsle et. internationale de l'éducation que l'Etat essaie de mettre. € en  oeuvre, C'est pourquoi les. responsables qui. formulent, ‘des ‘recommandations en'ce qui’ ‘con-  cerne les programmes, doivent tenir compte, du. ‘milieu et, dé Ja comriiunaufé où vit l'enfant,  de rnême qu'ils ‘doivent s'intéresser à la situation sociale, ‘eulturelle, économique de la  société à. laquelle « ces programmes sont destinés, . que ce, soit à l'échelon du pays ou - dans  le cas d'une région présentant une certaine unité linguistique ‘et historique - à 1'échelon  régional,
12,10 La sitüäliôn étant ce qu'elle” éet, noûs he ‘Pouvona pas envisager uniquemeént des  études’ ‘thébriqués, ‘ni admettre‘ que les pays en voié de ‘dévéloppèment adoptént'tels quels  les systèmes’ appliqués dans des’ pays ‘développés; Car, pour obténir des résultats valables  sur lè plan social, il faut qué le climat soit propice, et il n'est pas ‘possible que les pays  en voié de développement adoptent les mêmes normes que les pays développés, qui” sont  déjà industriulises.’
12:11 Qu'il fhe soit’ povints, Monster 1 lé Préatdtnt, Mesdaines ‘Méssièdrs les délégués,  de passer maintenant à ce que fait la République populaire du Yémen du Sud dans le domaine  de l'enseignement, Ce que j'aural à dire à ce sujet ne différera guère de, ce. + que je viens  d'exposer, . 5 . ..  > Ù : . Nt. A t ~
12,12 Le 50 novembre 1967, nous avons. “obtenu. l'indépendance, après v une occupation qui ©  a duré 129 ans, ‘Dès: les. premiers jours. de notre indépendance, le Ministère de : l'éduca-.  tion d'commencé à étidier la situation dans ‘le ‘domaine de l'enseignement et, bien que ne’.  disposant pas du.personnel dont nous: aurions eu besoin pour nous fournir les conseils tech-  niques indispensables, nous avons essayé d'évaluer cette situation par nos propres moyens,
664   Sesiones plenarias /liaexapusie scéedanua XXIV  Nous en avons ensuite mis en lumière les points faibles, tels qu'ils résultaient de la po-  litique colonialiste qui avait été appliquée jusque-là en matière d'enseignement. Notre tra-  vail a porté sur trois questions : programmes scolaires, cycles d'enseignement et person-  nel enseignant,
12,13 Le premier problème était posé par l'extsterièe de déux prôgrammes “ditiévdatd sur  le territôire de la même République,’ Dans la‘région qu'on appelait la Fédération de 1'Ara-  bie du Sud, était appliqué un ‘programme qui n'avait aucun rapport avec le miliew dans’1é-  quel l'élève vivait, La langue anglaisé était le véhicule de la ‘pensée et de’ 1fenséignement,  En outre, les programmes d'histoire et de géographie étaient les mêmes que les pro-  grammes britanniques,‘ à quelques petites ‘différences près, Est-il admissible, Mesdames,  Messieurs, que 1'én n'étudie point dans cette région l'histoire ét la géographie du Moyen-  Orient et des pays arabes ?
12. 14 Deuxième observation en ce qui concerne ce programme : il né présentait pas assez  de souplesse pour permettre à l'élève de choisir les études convenant a ses goûts naturels,  à ses aptitudes et A ses dispositions, -
12,15 Ma troisième observation, c'est qu'en.:1967, juste avant que l'occupant ne quitte le:  pays, un décret-avait été promulgué, qui constituait, en fait, une arme à-double tranchant :  il avait été. décidé que l'enseignement serait gratuit jusqu'à la fin dy cycle secondaire et.  que les examens de passage seraient supprimés (alors que ces examens existent toujours,  en Grande-Bretagne et que 20 % seulement des élèves de ce pays ont accès à l'enseigne-  ment secondaire), Cette politique était apparemment démocratique, mais, en fait, elle  allait être une source de difficultés pour le Gouvernement de la République, qui ne digpo-  sait pas d'un nombre suffisant d'enseignants blen préparés, En fait, cette mesure était  destinée À la seule ville d'Aden et tendait à priver les autres régions d'enseignement.  HE in
12,16 En quatrième leu, lo programme: contenait dès matières d'enseignement courantes,  mais l'on ne pouvait y introduire des matières d'enseigneinent devenues indispensables  dans le monde d'aujourd'hui, comme les langues, la philosophie et la sociologie. En outre,  tout était encore à faire dans le domaine de l'enseignement scientlfique et ‘de l'enseigne-  ment rural.
12.17 Voilà, Mesdames; Messieurs, un aperçu de ce programme. ‘Quant au sécond pro-  blème créé par les colonisateurs, il était dû à la présence de deux cycles d'enseignement  dans la République : un cycle’ dé'11 années’ a +3+ 4) et un autre de 12 années (4+ 4+ 4),
12,18 Le troisidme probidine’ rësultait du fait qué’ occupant” ‘n'avait paé “établi de projets  précis pour la formation des enseignants du cycle intermédiaire et du cycle secondaire ;  il faisait donc appel à des enseignants étrangérs, et les sommes destinées à rémunérer  ces enséignants étrangers représentaient de 40 à 50 %. du budget de l'éducation, Ajoutez  à cela une grave pénurie de bâtiments ‘s¢olaires et l'absence de mesures ‘visant à assurer  le succès des activités déployées dans le domaine de l'enseignement,
12,19 Enfin, le dernier drame que je me dois de signaler ef « c lest € que toute une province,  que l'on appelait le pays du Mahrat, ne connaissait absolument pas la civlisation ; l'ocçu-.  pant avait laissé cette province telle qu'il l'avait trouvée : sans écoles, sans services sa-  nitajres, sans rhoyens de communication. . ; Lu ;  RENE Po ta 84 4 = cat ait 4 al
12, 20 Monsieur Je Président; Mesdames, Messteürs les délégués, je. ne‘veux pas prolon-  ger cerdiscours:: J'al'voulu tout-simplerment vous mettre:sous les yeux le draihe dé l'édu-  cation que connaît notre jeune République. - drame’ provoqué sciemment par l'occupant qui  n'a éprouvé aucun remords en commettant ces crimes à l'encontre d'enfants innocents.  Que peut faire la République populaire du Yémen du Sud devant une telle. situétion e ‘dans le.  domaine de l'éducation. : . ? Lui
665   XXIV ) Plenary meetings / Séances plénières
12,21 J'ai dit'que nous envisagions aétüellement dés plans de développement de l'éducation  et que-nèus souhaitions vivement que les pays arabes frères, les autres‘Etats membres  et l'Unesco prennent conscierice de nos épreuves et nous ‘aident à venir à bout d'une partie  de la lourde tâche que nous a laissée l'occupant, Notre Ministre de l'éducation a exposé  lui-même cette tragédie à la Conférence des ministres de l'éducation des Etats arabes, et  il a déclaré que la République d'Irak, la République du Soudan et la République arabe unie  avaient répondu à notre appel en nous envoyant des enseignants pour le cycle sécondaire,  afin que nos établissements d'éngeignement puissent rouvrir - car, en fait, ils étaient  restés fermés pendant six mois avant le départ de l'occupant,
12.22 En second leu, après avoir ‘évalué la situation de ‘l'enseignement, après « avoir pro-  cédé aux études ‘dont Jai ‘parlé, nous avons créé, un ‘organisme de planification de l'éduca-  tion, ~hargé à la fois d'établir des programmes scolaires ef des programmes de formation  du personnel enseignant et de s'occuper des relations culturelles, de l'éducation dans les  zones rurales, de la protection des Jeunes et de l'éducation des adultes,
12,23 En troisième lieu, immédiatement après ‘avoir’ accédé à l'indépendance, le Gouver-  neñiènt de la République populaire du Yémen du Sud a approuvé l'accord concernant l'unité  culturelle arabe, car nous reconnaissons l'existence d'un peuple arabe qui a une même  langue, une ‘même histoire et une même éulture, Enfin, nous savons qu'il faut mettre fin -  aux écarts résultant de conditions étrangères A la volonté des Arabes, C'est dans cet esprit  que la République populaire du Yémen du Sud étudie les recommandations de la Conférence  générale et espère les mettre bientôt à exécution,
12, 24 Monsieur le Présideñt,- l'occupant nous a placés devant une lourde tâche, Nous  sommes convaincus qu'én oéuvrant avec ardeut ét en conjuguant nos'efforts, nous réussi-  rons à l'accomplir. Nous sommes décidés à rattraper nôtre retard, ‘en dépit du fait que  nous partons dé zéro. ‘Nous tendons la main'à tous les pays pour qu'ils nous aident à cons-  truire le bâtiment destiné aux générations futures, Nous faisons partie de l'Unesco et,  comme on dit, si une partie du corps se plaint, l'ensemble du corps aura la fièvre ! Nous  devons faire face à certains besoins urgents : il nous faut surtout une école normale supé-  rieure. De même nous devons relever le niveau professionnel des différents éléments du  personnel enseignant.en créant à cet effet une école 'd'enséignement par correspondance,  J'ai été frappé, à ce propos, par le paragiraphe 291 du Projet de programme pour 1989-
1970, et je souhaiterais que l'Unesco commence à appliquer ce projet dans la République  populaire du Yémen du Sud, ,
12. 25 ‘voila, Monsieur le Président, ce que je désirals exposer. Jen l'oublierai pas, avant  de quitter cette tribune, de vous féliciter de votre-élection à la présidence de cette session,  de même que je félicite le Directeur général de sa réélection et du nouveau mandat qui lui  a été gonfié.
13.1 ‘PRESIDENT!  Thank you, Mr. Said Abdul Khair Al Noban for your contribution.
13.2 Now the last speaker for this evening is His Royal Highness Prince Mahmud Ghazi,  Head of the delegation of Afghanistan.  = Fa Ta
1401 Mr. ‘MAHMUD-GHAZT (Atéhantétan) BE ‘ ’ CU  ft is with genuine pleasure, Mr. President, hat 1 shold like to ter ÿ you, on my’ wit  behalf and on behalf of the Afghan delegation, corigratulations on your electiofi ‘as Président  of the fifteenth session of the General Conference. We are fully confident that in electing  you, we have made a wise choice; we wish you full suècess in gulding thé Conference to-  wards objectives - which in s0 many ways are; at the present moment, influencing the lives  of those who are sil in their cradles or are taking their first steps in life. -  PANT
14; 2 I should also like to express our. profound satisfaction that this distinguished as ‘assem-  bly has decided unanimously to put responsibility for the conduct of the affaire of this
666   Sesiones plenarias / llAenapuue sacèoaxua XXIV  Organization once more into the hands of a person who,‘ with his qualities.of head and heart,  has performed so well in'discharging his onerous duties during the past six years. .I am  not sure whether this is a proper moment to congratulate Mr. René Maheu on his re- .  election; he does ‘aftér all face a number of ‘éxtremely complicated problems, and will have  to endeavour to find a proper solution for them, ‘But I believe that we; representatives of -  Member States of this Organization have every reason to congratulate ourselves on'his re-  election to this highly sensitive and extremely important positicn. . :  +
14.3 Let me assure you at the outset that I have not come to this rostrum in order to re-_  capitulate thé modest achievements of our people in the fields of education, sclence and  culture during the past two years. A full report of our endeavours has already been pre-  sented to the Secretariat, and we shall let it go at that,  t A
14.4 I wish, nevertheless; to avail myself of this opportunity to express tha. appréciation.  of my government for the part played by Unesco in the attainment of some. of iour- objectives.  While I remain on this happy trend of thought, I cannot but-voice the heartfelt appreciation  of our people, our sincere gratitude, to the governments of countries such as France, our  host country, the Federal Republic of Germany, thé United States of America, the Soviet  Union and many other countries for their help and co-operation in preparing our children  better to face the responsibilities of living in a world, which, we hope and really believe,  will be a better one. .
14.5 My delegation has carefully studied the Draft Programme and Budget for 1969-1970. -  We fully support this draft, but we feel, nevertheless, that certain brief comments on it  may not be altogether irrelevant,
14,6 It is, of course, an accepted fact that education constitutes the most important part  of Unesco's programme, Based on that assumption, we, believe that from the viewpoint of  developing countries, planning does and must have top priority. We are pleased to note that  Unesco has become aware of this need, and we fully endorse Unésco's efforts and activities  in this field. We hope and in fact we are convinced that a proper method of planning will  eventually lead to an adequate solution of both the qualitative and the quantitative problems  of education : ’ Lo ,
14.7. While discussing education; we cannot afford to ignore a major problem; which, from  our point of view and perhaps from that of many other delegations from developing countries,  remains the key.to finding:an adequate solution.. I am referring; of course, to the problem  of teacher training, In this field too we: are receiving some assistance from Unesco, parti-  cularly in connexion with the training of teachers for the first oycle of secondary education.  Generally speaking; we are, satisfied with the objectives and implementation of this project,  but we are somewhat concerned about the recruitment of experts. . We must, to begin with,  cope with the fact that the number of ‘experts available is rather limited, iThen we notice -  that amongst experts who.are available there is little homogeneity; :in.other words, these.  experts often come from different areas and have different backgrounds.and are acquainted  with different systems of education. Added to that is the fact that they sometimes have to  -teach in'a-language-ôtheF than their own’ «The problem then becomes acute," arid ‘any possi-  bility of establishing'téäm work suddenly becomes remote: We fully appreciate Unes¢o's  [difficulties in keeping up with the requirements of geographical distribution) but:weé wonder  whether. it: would not be' possible for it to apply thé principle of sub-contracting:for certain  special and specific projects! ‘In saying that, I do not wish it thought that we. have the - 0  slightest reservation in supporting the criterion of fair geographical disfribution in so far  as Unéacô' 8 Secretariat is concerned : : We fully apprééiate the ceaseless'efforts of the.  Director-General to rectify the situation within the last few years. - = ; 3
14.8 The question of adult education and mass-illiteracy has been mentioned freqüently  during the‘current general:debate. Of course this is a burning issue; especially for the :  developing countries, and we hope that efforts in this regard will be continued and expan-  ded as much as possible. : Ce SEI TR 1 se
667   XX1v ) Plenary meetings /Séances pléniéres
14,9 ‘Another important issue and this is really a.vital onej'ie what we call today the cri-  sis of ‘youth, . The topic was discussed by the Director-General; the question seems to  have preoccupied many delegations present at this General Conference; ‘and we read about  some soft of a disturbance every day in our daily papers. .We cannot afford to say that  this is merely a contagious disease, we can no longer afford to pay it merely lip-service;  the problem is there, and it has attained international dimensions, ‘We believe we should  get to the roots of the matter; we must really find out what is troubling our hopes and as-  pirations for better days ahead, Have we really failed the young, are we ignoring their  problems? What better form than Unesco to look into these problems? Could we really .  find a better; a more appropriate, place than this to search our hearts and minds and to  come out with appropriate solutions? :
14.10 To conclude our comments on Unesco's programme for education, we would like to  stress the vital importance of further research and study for the benefit of all Member .  States. “We sincerely hope that no effort will be spared in that direction and that no obsta-  cles will prevent us from attaining the results we hopefully expact from research and study.
14.11 - I need not stress the importance of the application of science and technology to de-'  velopment for countries such as mine. The developing countries do really need greater  assistance for evolving a science policy. For the time being our main problem is that of  teaching science at different levels. In our particular case, given the nature and stage of  development of our economy, it is agriculture that happens to be our major preoccupation.  Perhaps many other Member States share this concern.
14.12 We feel that Unesco's progrimme for social sciences and human sciences gives the  impression of being rather indistinét. This may be due to the fact that in our day and age  greater emphasis io being placed upon sciencé and technology. We have no specific objec=  tions to make, but considering Uile8co's attempts to promote a more balanced and flexible  programmé, we would like to hope that a future programme might pay more attention to  these subjects.
14.13 Coming now to another objective. of Unésco! s activities, le can find no words to des-  cribe the enormous importaice of the diffusion of culture has for international understand-  ing. We believe that this sapect of Unesco's programme should receive greater attention  than it has in the past.’ There is ore specific project in that field which appeärs‘of special  importance to us, namely thé study of central Asian cultures and civilizations... We are  convinced that much has been done within the last few years, but there remains the tremen-  dous and sometimes. urgént task of preserving the historical monuments which:belong to :  humanity as a whole. - At timés unfortunately, certain Member States, ‘due to-temporary  financial ‘and technical difficulties, may not be in‘ä position to prevent the elements from’!  - destroying these relics of the common cultural heritage éf mankind. But wind and snow, !  rain and sun do‘their work day after day. Will it not be a 1dss to humanity as a whole if  some ‘of these moriuments ‘disappear from the face of the earth because they merely hap-  pened to be situated in a rather disinherited part of the globe 7-
14. 14 In this ‘connexion, 1 consider it my duty. to draw your ‘attention to. the historical monu-  ments in occupied Jordan, and especially to the holy and ancient city of Jerusalem ; where’  no country ‘on government has the right or. should be given the right to disturb, to transfer,  or otherwise; to tamper with religious and historical monuments which form the heritage of  three of the, greatest faiths established on the face of this earth... .. °  ; sq A ,  EY ast A
14. 16° Before concluding, 1 ‘should ike to say. that my delegation considers ‘that the National  Commissions have been carrying out a worthy task and that they should be given further  assistance. , ;  - -_- } see” = A 7
14. 16 ‘Our views. have already been given: ‘on the ‘question of increasing the membetsht at  the Executive Board from 30 to 34; we’ support this proposal for the benefit of Asian and  African Member States who have been really under-represented.
14.17 In conclusion, my delegation wishes to extend a hearty welcome to the delegations  of the newly admitted Member States, and looks forward to the day when this Organization  will have achieved its objective of full universality.
16.1 PRESIDENT?  I thank the Head of the delegation of Afghanistan for his contribution. Now, ladies  and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our list of speakers for this afternoon's meet-  ing. The general policy debate will be resumed tomorrow morning and the plenary session  will commence at 10,00 a.m. His Excellency, Mr. Babitchouk, Head of the delegation of  the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, one of the Vice-Presidents of the present session  of our General Conference, will be in the chair.
15.2 I now declare the 24th plenary meeting closed.  The meeting rose at 5.50 p.m.  La séance est levée à 17 h. 50  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 17.60
3aceAaHHe 3aKpPHBaeTCcA B 17 4, 50 M,