Twenty-third plenary meeting
26 October 1970 at 10,20 a.m.  Presidents: Mr, DELL'ORO MAINI (Argentina)  Mr, COOKEY (Nigeria)  Vingt-troisième séance plénière
26 octobre 1970, à 10 h, 20  Président : M. DELL'ORO MAINI (Argentine)  puis M, COOKEY (Nigeria)  Vigésimotercera sesiôn plenaria
26 okTH6pa 1970 r. B 10 4.20 MHH.  Il peacezarenb: l'-H KEJIb' OPO MAHHH (ApreHTHHa)  . saTem T'-H COMIDE/Jb KYKH (Hurepna)  Da tally BEI LUI dod)  |S is ol save UN gre 23) 5ST Nn  (oir dl) orale soley andl 1 nat)  (Lines) 535 opr wf tedl =  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)/ DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite) / _  DEBATE SOBRE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién)/OBCY XAEHHE BONPOCOB OBMEH  TIONHTHKH (MNposonxenne) à Lati ivloadl dail, Slits!
(1.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I declare the meeting open.
(1.2) We shall now continue the general policy debate, and I call first on Mr. José Luis Villar  Palas, Ministar of Education and Science and head of the Spanish delegation.
(2.1) Mr. VILLAR PALASI (Spain) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President, 1 am sure it will not be taken as a mere formal courtesy that I express my  deep satisfaction at the supremely-merited distinction conferred upon you by the General Con-  ference when it elected you President of its sixteenth session in International Education Year.
(2.2) In dedicating the year 1970 to education, on the threshold of the Second Development Decade,  the United Nations recognized a fact which is today unquestionably clear to us: that educution is  already a genuine world priority. This present importance of education means in its turn that  education policies are becoming major tasks of governments which are accordingly accepting the  great political impact of education and its growing technical requirements, and endeavouring to  adapt the education systems of our times to development forecasts.
(2.3) I am not going to describe now the recent achievements of my country, for I understand  that our duty here is to heed the interests of the international community, which are also the in-  terests of each and all of us, I therefore just want to tell you that this International Education  Year has been celebrated in Spain by its coincidence with the passage by our parliament, our  Cortes, of the General Law on Education, which ushers in a new and hopeful stage inthe cultural,  social, scientific and economic development of our nation.
(2.4) 1 believe that this coincidence is a zood omen, and I am delighted that this new law should  be our contribution to International Education Year, especially since I know that it is part of a  great international drive for education, and that our anxieties and hopes are those of all mankind.
(2.5) From our own experience I wish to say that I am convinced - as doubtless many of you also  are - that the time has come for far-reaching educational-reforms, realistic reforms whose  soundness must be attested by practical, comprehensive plans of action so that the next decade  may sce the attainment in Member States of Unesco's prior objective: the extension of an educa-  tion of high quality to offer through the educational system, without any kind cf discrimination,  real equality of opportunity to all.
(2.6) 1 want to emphasize this fact because I continue to believe firmly that it is also the surest  way to a fruitful and lasting peace among nations, that peace which arises from clear minds and  calm spirits, the peace of knowledge and understanding so different from this precarious peace  rooted in ignorance and fear.
(2.7) Unesco has already done much for peace, But we must continue to build up this effort by  educational policies and teaching systems that will bring us closer together instead of separating  us, and which will unite us in all that is best in the traditions of our people and all that holds out  the greatest hope for our future. We should educate to unite, never to separate, It is gratifying  to me to see how we have been united by studying our problems together in this Organization, and  thus showing that Unesco, with its policy for education is pre-eminently an organization for peace  based on co-operation for culture,
(2.8) We are convinced of the need for this co-operation because, in radically reforming our  educaticnal structures, we have tried to take account of the experience of other nations and have  understood how the urgency of our problems unites us with all peoples in the quest for the solu-  tions required of us by our own people's progress.
(2.9) In line with this feeling of international solidarity, the first article of our General Law on  Education prescribes that one of the purposes of education, at all levels and in all forms, shall  be to foster the spirit of international understanding and co-operation. In referring to this inter-  national co-operation I wish to make special mention of the Conference of Ibero-American Minis-  ters of Education - convened by the Ibero-American Bureau of Education and held recently in  Spain - which, as part of this International Year, has given yet another token of this spirit of co-  operation which, based on an ever-open congenial and brotherly dialogue, should govern the  joint action of our countries in the service of education and peace, Unesco's contribution to our  educational reform has been another striking token; and 1 consider it my duty to express here my  gratitude to the Director-General for the support that he and the Organization have given us  throughout.
(2.10) Co-operation there will be, then, in education for peace, but in education also for pro-  gress and development. This progress, moreover, will not be made if our countries do not pos-  sess a cultural platform based ona sufficiently high general level of education and providing a firm  foundation for training in middle and higher occupations in accordance with the requirements of  the labour market and a policy of full employment,
(2.11) This planning requires a genuine equality of opportunity not confined to rhetorical state-  ments, making no distinction between poor and rich, and acting as a binding social force for our  peoples. This is why, when 1 introduced the Education Law in our parliament, I went go far as  to call it a law for peace, For this purpose of equality of opportunity we should alt endeavour to  arrive at a fuller and more advanced understanding, because it is not fair that youth alone should  benefit from the democratization of education, There are people who, despite a strong vocation  for learning, have been excluded from the educational system by the very rigidity of its struc-  ture and by economic and social factors. Society owes them a debt and cannot condemn them to  permanent self-teaching or ignorance, but must open to them all levels of formal education, even  the highest. Only then will it be possible to speak of real equality of opportunity over and above  economic conditions and without distinction of age. For this purpose we have started this very  month a system whereby persons over twenty-five can enter universities even without secondary
23  qualifications, and henceforth, so long as they show themselves sufficiently mature, pursue  higher studies with the permanent help of the university to fill the gaps in their knowledge.
(2.12) All this should be included in the new educational reform movement which we believe that  the General Conference should distinguish at this session as a fundamental objective during the  Second Development Decade. These reforms, however, cannot be improvised or entrusted solely  to the imagination. On the contrary, they must be included in long-term plans and in precise  programmes of implementation, It is also necessary, in regard to finance, that governments  should awake to this new educational? planning and its effect on development; because the need is  to build, not simply a human capital put something much more important: the actual will to develop.
(2.13) Education fs not just a good investment; it is the supreme pre-investment and should be  taken into account as such when its long-term financing machinery is being prepared. We have  adopted this kind of financing for our educational reform, and our Law has approved specific  gradual increases until 1980, calculated precisely according to Spain's adaptation of Unesco's  macro-economic model.
(2.14) In addition to this concern for the basic themes of planning and financing, the driving force  of development itself also obliges us to adopt an innovatory turn of mind constantly kept up to  date by the will to improve our reforms. This is a need that we for our part have tried to meet  by a flexible system of periodical review of the Law to keep it constantly abreast of the times  and so prevent the educational structures from ageing, which they inevitably would under a set of  rules which could not be changed. This innovating attitude and this desire for constant renova-  tion carry with them the need to organize specific investigation of problems of development of  education, fur which the foremost institutions in the educational system, the universities, are  increasingly responsible and to which a growing proportion of the whole budget is devoted.
(2.15) Having said this and emphasized the unquestionable priority that education should continue  to have in Unesco, I do not think it contradictory to assert that this decade is going to see the  introduction of large-scale programmes of education and culture, precisely because this educa-  tional renovation raises a need to found far-reaching science policies on a general level of know-  ledge and on a proper democratic base for the selection of key research and technical personnel,  The very logic of the facts leads us to the conclusion that the democratization of education con-  stitutes both the basis for genuine social mobility and the means of selection which is essential  for the progress of science.
(2.16) Only through an appropriate educational system can science and technology receive the  constant creative impetus which can keep them in the vanguard of progress; because education is  the foundation of science and ought more especially to foster creative spontaneity and train the  scientific mind. This is something that should be ensured by the educational system itself, since  a mere transfer of technical knowledge can produce only alimited and superficial progress which,  shutting itself up and marking time, will forever repudiate its real duty of innovation. The edu-  cational system should therefore be concorded in structure and function with the needs of science  policy. But, while education should serve research by laying the foundation on which, through  the training of research workers, all scientific work must necessarily be established, research  should also constantly enliven the educational system by specific studies in educational science.
(2.17) Besides these essential conditions for education, which affect the training of the human  resources for a coherent science policy, it is also necessary to establishthe process of increasing  and rationalizing financial resources, research priorities and the political and technical struc-  tures which ought to be channels for decision and action. What has to be asserted before any-  thing else, however, is that science policy requires long-term planning concorded with general  development planning and serving it; because on this level the problems of the growing countries  can be solved, not by transfers and adaptations, but by indigenous technological resources equal  to their needs.
(2.18) Ido not believe it sufficient, however, to point out that education and science are essen-  tial to development. Our objective is man in all his natural and spiritual tucegrity, and the devel-  opment that concerns us is one which comprises all the factors which shape the full development  of a human being. Here it is especially interesting that at the Venice Conference, the Director-  General reaffirmed Unesco's cultural vocation in the face of the immediate priorities of educa-  tion and science.
(2.19) The Director-General's idea of strengthening Unesco's long-term work for culture must  be taken as an achievement because what is becoming increasingly plainto us today as a crisis of  cultural training is not a mere subject of an educational discipline, nor can it be resolved with
4,1  the internal resources of the educational system alone. The cultural crisis which looks to us  like a Inass indoctrination, a socialized pseudo-training, threatens to degrade the genuine demo-  cratization of culture. On top of this threat, technology's invasion of the media of social com-  munication faces culture with a new challenge which may enliven it or paralyse it but which will  in any case, as has been pointed out, make us reshape our cultural environment,
(2.20) This new and complex task of renovating the educational system; this determination to  provide equality of opportunity without discrimination between rich and poor or between young  and old; this intention to help to bring together countries with educational systems that safeguard  the international mobility of specialists: all these constitute an enterprise which is inspired by  the noblest ideals of human dignity and understanding between peoples, and is for all these rea-  sons an enterprise for peace.
(2,21) All this international work - and let us make no mistake about it - is going to cost each  of us a great deal of effort and money, just as our national activities do. But, just as in every  other human action, we shall have to defend this cause with our faith and with a sense of timing.  Therefore, it is just as urgent as drafting a long-term plan that we should tackle the international  problems of financial growth, and at the same time make this Organization more flexible so that  it can react more effectively and rapidly to the changing situations 0: our countries notwithstanding  the present system of perhaps over-detailed programmes that have hitherto been submitted to  the General Conference.
(2.22) This conviction leads me to make a practical proposal, We should consider whether in  the future the General Conference can be content to decide at a high political level the principal  lines of action - in the manner of document 16 C/4, which we fortunately now have for the first  time - and empower the Executive Board to approve the two-year programmes. We ought té put  before the Conference only those points on which the Board cannot agree and such others as it  deems fit to refer to the Conference. We should thereby very substantially lightenthese sessions  of the General Conference, about whose documentation and length we are always complaining,  particularly those of us who are bound to take part in its decisions and are prevented by our  national duties from devoting more time to that work.
(2.23) This proposal seems all the sounder to me since the Director-General has succeeded in  truly institutionalizing the Reglonal Conferences of Ministers and the meetings of experts pre-  pacing the technical and political items on which the decisions of the Board and of the General  Conference are based. I am not goint to start calculating how many working hours this would  save the Secretariat in preparing and conducting General Ccoiference sessions. If in this way we  could manage to reduce their length to a few Jays, the participation of the highest political au-  thorities would certainly become more permanent and direct.
(2.24) 1 would invite delegates and later the Executive Board to think about this proponal 1 have  just made. If they saw fit, the Secretariat could make a feasibility study.
(2.25) Lastly, 1 should like to reaffirm my faith in Unesco's work, especially since the Director-  General has told us that he is willing to continue ir office, and his presence gives us the best  guarantee of Unesco's effectiveness in this new decade of its life,  El PRESIDENTE:  Agradezco al Excmo. Sr. Representante de España su intervencién,  Tiene la palabra el Jefe de la Delegacién de Laos, Sr. Khamkhing Souvanlasy.
(3.1) The PRESIDENT (Tranglation from the Spanish):  I thank the representative of Spain for his statement.
(3.2) I call on the head of the delegation of Laos, Mr. Khamkhing Souvanlasy.  M. SOUVANI ASY (Laos), -  Monsieur le Président, retenu ailleurs par des obligations nationales, le chef de la  délégation du Laos, S, Exc, M, Leuam Insi sienmay, vice-président du Conseil, ministre  de l'éducation nationale, des beaux-arts et aes sports, m'a chargé de vous présenter ses  félicitations les plus cordiales pour votre élection à la présidence de cette seizième ses-  sion de la Conférence générale, Pour ma part, je suis profondément convaincu, connais-
23  sant votre personnalité, que vous saurez mener à bien avec la plus grande efficacité ta  tâche à la fois noble et difficile qui vous a ainsi été confiée,
4,2 Je veux d'autre part, Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif et Monsieur le Direc-  teur général, vous renouveler mes remerciements pour la façon attrayante et concise dont  les rappoits sur les activités et projets divers nous ont été présentés,
4,3 Je vous suis reconnaissant, Monsieur le Président, de permet.re encore une fois à  mon pays de faire entendre sa voix dans cette respectable et majestueuse enceinte, Qu'il  me soit permis de saluer tous les honorables délégués ici présents qui symbolisent si so-  lennellement notre grande famille humaine ! Ayant eu plus d'une fois l'honneur et le plaisir  de m'adresser à cette éminente assemblée, c'est avec une joie toute particulière que je lui  soumettrai encore aujourd'hui les vues de mon pays, le Laos, sur les activités de l'Unesco,
4,4 Chaque fois que nous avons entendu parler de !'Unesco, notre premier mouvement en  effet a toujours été celui de l'espérance, Dans ce monde troublé où jouent les intérêts les  plus opposés et les influences les plus diverses, il est évident que l'Unesco fait office de  fanal, qu'elle permet tous les espoirs et qu'elle montre par son action que, malgré toutes  leurs querelles, les hommes tiennent toujours pour sacrées l'éducation, la science et la  culture, Point n'est donc besoin d'ajouter combien nous réjouissent et nous encouragent  les efforts que l'Unesco dépioie tant pour l'éducation, la paix et le développement que pour  la lutte contre le racisme et l'impéralisme sous toutes leurs formes,
4,5 Les activités de l'Unesco en Asie nous touchent, cela va sans dire, au plus haut point,  surtout quand elles ont trait à l'éducation et à la formation des maîtres, C'est ainsi que  les projets à court comme à long terme nous permettent d'envisager l'avenir avec plus  d'optimisme, Et déjà nous pouvons déclarer que, grâce aux initiatives de l'Unesco, l'Asie  a pris une conscience plus aiguë d'elle-même, ayant depuis longtemps compris que le dé-  veloppement passe par l'éducation,
4,6 Enfin, dans le cadre plus modeste de mon pays, le Laos, nous sommes satisfaits des  résultats obtenus jusqu'à ce jour en ce qui concerne la formation des maîtres, l'éducation  des adultes et l'alphabétisation fonctionnelle, Pour ne parler que de cette année 1970, nombre  de stages pour les professeurs de l'enseignement secondaire ont été organisés dans mon  pays, stages relatifs aux disciplines les plus diverses et ayant pour objet aussi bien la mé-  thodologie que la nouvelle orientation de l'enseignement, Quant à l'alphabétisation fonction-  nelle, elle a donné, malgré les difficultés que connaft actuellement mon pays, des résultats  très positifs, puisque, depuis quinze ans, le taux des analphabètes adultes est tombé de
70 % à 39 %.
4,7 Voilà donc, Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, un aperçu des réalisations  dont, au nom de mon gouvernement et de mon pays, je tiens à féliciter sincèrement l'Unesco,
4,8 Cependant, ce serait mentir et rendre un bien mauvais service à l'Unes.o que de lui  laisser entendre qu'elle ne prête à aucune critique. C'est aussi bien dans son propre inté-  rêt que dans le nôtre que je me permettrai, à présent, de formuler les quelques réflexions  que voici,
4,9 Avant tout, la grande prolifération des programmes et des projets n'est pas sans m'in-  quiéter, Pour parler tout nafvement, on a parfois l'impression de s'y noyer, De plus, il  ne suffit pas que les projets soienttechniquement bien conçus ; il faut aussi qu'ils répondent  aux besoins dans l'ordre de priorité souhaitable et qu'ils puissent être appliqués sur le ter-  rain, Or ce ‘est pas toujours le cas, En Asie, par exemple, des centres régionaux de for-  mation ont élé créés pour s'attaquer aux problèmes de l'enseignement considérés sous tous  leurs aspects, C'est là le fruit de louables initiatives, Mais, souvent, à peine un programme  est-il à dem. réalisé que l'on passe à d'autres projets plus beaux et plus grands encore ou  même ... idantiques, Il arrive également que, faute de moyens, nos pays se trouvent bru-  talement dans l'incapacité de poursuivre jusqu'à son terme tel ou tel projet qui, en cours
23  de route, s'est révélé soit trop vaste, soit dépassé par rapport aux exigences du jour, Pre-  nons par exemple le Plan de Karachi, dans la réalisation duquel nous nous trouvons déja a  mi-chemin : ses résultats paraissent si relatifs que nous avons peine à croire qu'il y ait  eu progrès, car le taux d'analphabètes est loin de diminuer, tandis que la pénurie de per-  sonnel enseignant augmente et que la misère de l'enseignement persiste, N'est-on pas là  en précence d'un effet de boomerang, que l'on aurait pu prévenir ?
4,10 Cela pour vous rappeler, Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, que si  les programmes et les projets peuvent paraître magnifiques dans les bureaux, il ne faut  point oublier que les peuples restent toujours tributaires de leurs conditions matérielles  et budgétaires aussi bien que de leur situation géographique et de leur contexte linguistique,  L'ordre de priorité des projets a également beaucoup d'importance, Dans un monde où la  pauvreté et l'ignorance prédominent largement, ne faudrait-il pas que l'Unesco concentre  ses efforts sur l'éducation d'abord, et ensuite sur la science et sur la culture ?
4,i1 Une deuxième réflexion que je tiens à soumettre à cette éminente assemblée a trait  au problème de la jeunesse, Comme tout un chacun le sait, ce problème d'actualité est  devenu une vogue, pour ne pas dire un mythe que chacun comprend ou exploite à sa façon.  Aussi, au nom de la jeunesse, tend-on à tout excuser, à tout tolérer. à tout permettre,  Mais qu'est-ce au juste que la jeunesse ? Qui est vraiment jeune et qui n'est pas jeune ?  Ce qui est surprenant, c'est que personne n'ait jamais pensé à répondre à de telles ques-  tions, On parle encore de la participation des jeunes, Mais sur quels critères se base-t-on  pour définir la jeunesse et sa participation ? Est-ce sur l'âge, sur le niveau intellectuel,  sur les responsabilités professionnelles, sur la mentalité ou sur d'autres critères encore ?
4,12 Si j'ai bien saisi ce qui s'est passé depuis deux ans, les jeunes ont commencé par  ‘eantester" la société et l'autorité de leurs amés, lesquels, faute de savoir leur répondre,  onl fini par céder jusqu'à se démettre de leurs propres responsabilités, Que la jeunesse  soit pleine de ressources, d'énergie, d'idées, de courage et de bonne volonté, j'en con-  viena et je ne peux que m'en féliciter, Que dans une certaine mesure elle se libère de con-  traintes dépassées, cela est parfaitement compréhensible et normal en ce siècle où, avec  l'instruction, les jeunes paraissent mûrir plus vite qu'au temps de nos pères, Mais laisser  la jeunesse décider de tout, renoncer à lui imposer la moindre restriction, laissér les  moins jeunes se dérober à leurs devoirs d'aînés, voilà qui me paraît inquiétant et néfaste  pour la jeunesse elle-même,
4.13 Je sais, Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, que, par dé-  finition, la jeunesse porte en elle tous nos espoirs et, partant, tout notre avenir, Elle a  la santé, la fraîcheur intellectuelle, l'ardeur, ie courage, et l'esprit d'initiative si néces-  saire au progrès, Et c'est pourquoi un philosophe célèbre de notre temps a pu dire à juste  titre que "les grands hommes sont utiles au monde dans la première moitié de leur vie, et  inutiles dans la seconde", Cela nous montre les capacités de la jeunesse et aussi la néces-  sité, pour nous les afnés, de savoir rester jeunes, c'est-à-dire ouverts à tout ce qui se  fait et constamment "disponibles", Mais toutes les valeurs que porte en elle la jeunessene  pourront avoir d'effet pratique que si les atés, forts de leur propre expérience, aident les  jeunes à s'épanouir et à se donner, Il est donc évident qu'une organisation comme l'Unesco,  qui se veut universelle, doit éviter de traiter ce problème à la légère, mais qu'elle doit  aussi bien faire le départ entre ce qui, chez les jeunes, relève d'une mode passagère et ce  qui mérite d'être retenu dans l'intérêt de leur propre avenir, Et surtout prenons garde que,  sous des apparences flatteuses, l'on n'exploite la jeunesse à des fins idéologiques, poli-  tiques ou tout simplement commerciales, C'est là que se précise le mieux la nécessité de  regarder la jeunesse bien en face et de la protéger,
4.14 Bref, pour une jeunesse qui a la santé, des idées et qui est impatiente d'agir, il faut  un idéal solide et de saines occupations dont elle puisse saisir le bien-fondé, Faute de quoi  elle ne pourrait que se sentir frustrée et, au besoin, crier ses droits par la révolte, Et  cela principalement dans les pays économiquement évolués où la publicité n'offre plus  d'autre choix aux jeunes que la consommation,
4,15 Autre sujet que tous les hommes traitent mais qui ne cesse de les diviser : la paix,  On pourrait appliquer à la paix ce cri poussé naguère par un auteur s'adressant à la liberté:  "Que de crimes on commet en ton nom | ", Le présent est-il en progrès sur le passé ?  J'hésite à répondre par l'affirmative, Pourquoi ?
4,16 Dans le passé, on se disputait pour un trône ou pour un territoire, On se faisait la  guerre et, une fois le but atteint, la paix revenait, Denos jours, lesintérêtsne se limitent  plus aux frontières nationales, et les ambitions des uns et des autres sont si complexes  que l'espoir d'une paix complète paraît simplement utopique, C'est par petits pays inter-  posés que se combattent aujourd'hui les puissants, D'où des troubles incessants, d'inter-  minables querelles, des conflits qui, pour être limités, n'en sont pas moins meurtriers,
4,17? Après les deux guerres mondiales, tous les peuples et toutes les nations avaient es-  péré que la création de grandes organisations internationales permettrait de trancher pari-  fiquement tous les différends qui désormais pourraient surgir, Cet espoir a duré un mo-  ment. Mais, hélas ! il a bien vite fallu se rendre à l'évidence, Assurément, en cas de con-  flit, ces grandes organisations ne manquent pas de s'affairer, de convoquer de solennelles  ronférences et de signer de célèbres accords, Mais est-ce que les guerres se sont éteintes  pour autant ? Est-ce que les paix solennellement signées ont pu devenir réalités ? Hélas,  tout le monde connaît déjà la réponse à cette question, Non, de telles paix, à dire vrai, ne  sont que des simulacres de paix, Et nous ne sommes malheureusement que trop bien placés  pour faire cette triste constatation,
4,18 Qu'il me soit donc permis de mettre en garde une grande organisation telle que l'Unesco,  dont les buts, chacun le sait, ne sont qu'humanitaires et culturels, Nous savons qu'il n'est  pas toujours aisé, même pour un organisme de cette taille, d'agir efficacement eu faveur  de la paix, Cependant, nous persistons à croire que l'Unesco peut et pourra constituer pour  tous les peuples épris de paix une tribune où ils pourront faire entendre leur voix et dé-  fendre leur cause, en même temps qu'un rendez-vous pour la raison,
4,19 Je voudrais saisir cette occasion pour vous soumettre encore une autre réflexion con-  cernant la culture elle-même, que l'Unesco s'est précisément donné pour tâche de sauve-  garder et de promouvoir, Au moment de la création de l'Unesco, et tout récemment encore,  la culture, telle qu'on l'envisageait ici, était de conception nettement occidentale, C'était  inévitable, vu les conditions de l'époque, et les pays nouvellement indépendants ne pouvaient  faire autrement que de reconnaître cette prédominance de la culture occidentale, Mais au-  jourd'hui, grâce à la prise de conscience des peuples et grâce aux encouragements prodi-  gués par l'Unesco elle-même, les pays dits du Tiers Monde ont retrouvé leur propre cul-  ture, dont la valeur, si elle est différente de celle de la culture occidentale, n'en est pas  moins respectable, Dans quelle mesure donc l'Unesco prend-elle aujourd'hui en considé-  ration la culture de ces pays issus de la décolonisation ? L'Unesco elle-même n'a-t-elle  pas déclaré à bien des reprises que l'épanouissement intellectuel et spirituel n'est possible  que s'il est greffé et basé sur la culture d'origine ? En termes directs et clairs, nous ne  pouvons nous empêcher de nous demander si, déjà relégués à la seconde place par nos con-  ditions économiques et politiques, nous ne restons pas encore des parents pauvres sur le  plan culturel, sur ce plan même où l'Unesco a toujours souhaité que l'égalité la plus  totale règne entre les humains, Or il faut bien avouer que les cultures non occidentales  restent toujours plus ou moins un mystère pour bien des Occidentaux, ce qui d'ailleurs  suscite beaucoup d'incompréhension,
4,20 Une dernière préoccupation, qui ne cesse, je le dirai tout naîvement, de me poursuivre,  a trait à l'évolution actuelle de notre société et surtout de la société de consommation, En  effet, depuis quelque temps, certains signes semblent bien montrer que la raison cède  parfois la place à l'irrationnel, voire à l'instinct, sous le prétexte de la spontanéité ou de  l'inspiration artistique, Il n'est certes pas question d'éliminer tout ce qui relève du non-  rationnel, lequel occupe bien, comme l'affirment psychologues et psychanalistes, la ma-  jeure partie de notre vie psychique, mais il ne faut pas abandonuer ce salutaire gouvernail  qu'est la raison, C'est en redressant la situation que l'Unesco remplira le mieux son rôle  de flambeau pour les hommes et les peuples épris de sagesse et de civilisation,
4,21 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, si j'ai posé cette ques-  tion, ce n'est nullement que j'aie perdu confiance en l'Unesco, loin de 13, Mais j'ai tenu  À rappeler à ce grand corps sa vocation et à lui dire combien grands restent notre attente  et nos espoirs,
4.22 En réalité, comme tout corps qui a grandi, l'Unesco n'a pu éviter certaines difficul-  tés inhérentes A sa croissance même, Mais, si le corps se développe, l'esprit aussi doit  s'adapter aux conditions nouvelles et aux besoins du jour, faute de quoi le corps risque de  perdre de vue sa propre mission,
4.23 Pour terminer, je me permettrai de formuler le voeu que, fidèle à son idéal inébran-  lable de liberté, l'Unesco veuille bien, avec la générosité et la patience qui la caractérisent,  user de toute son influence et de tout son pouvoir pour permettre au peuple lao, que je re-  présente ici et qui à l'heure actuelle lutte pour sa survie contre des voisins expansionnistes  qui ont envahi illégalement notre pays, de vivre en paix selon ses légitimes aspirations,
5.2 Tiene la palabra el Sr. Inglés, Jefe de la Delegaciôn de Filipinas  - (5.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 thank the head of the delegation of Lacs.
(5.2) I call on Mr. Inglés, head of the delegation of the Philippines.
6.1 Mr, INGLES (Philippines):  Mr. President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen: It gives me great pleas-  ure to convey to you, Mr, President, on behalf of the Philippine delegation and in my own  narne, our sincere congratulations on your unanimous election as Presiding Officer of this  historic Conference. We are confident that with your intimate knowledge of our Organiza-  tion's policies as a member of the Executive Board, you bring to the Presidency of this  Conference the indispensable link ensuring the harmonious and beneficial operation of these  two most important organs of Unesco.
6.2 May 1 also avail myself of this opportunity to commend the members of the Secretariat  in general, and the Director-General, Mr. René Maheu, in particular, for the excellent  working papers placed before the Conference, especially document 16 C/4, often referred  to ag the red book; document 16 C/5, generally referred to as the blue book; and documents
16 C/12 and 16 C/13, identified respectively as the White Papers on Peace and Development,
6.3 As we stand on the threshold of the Second Development Decade it is fitting that we re-  view the operations of our Organization since its inception, for it is indispensable that we  look back into the past in order to chart our course for the future. The fact that we have  earmarked 1970 as International Education Year makes it a useful transition fromthe First  to the Second Development Decade. International Education Year 1970 has ushered in the  spirit of innovation which is the keynote of the Long-Term Outline Plan for 1971-1976 sub-  mitted by the Director-General in the red book and on which the Executive Board has re-  commended the General Conference to focus its attention in the present debate on  general policy.
6.4 It behoves us also to take into account the soul-searching and stocktaking that has taken  place and the resolutions that have resulted from the recently-concluded commemorative  session on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the United Nations. For indeed it is not  the prerogative of only one or two nations, not only of Unesco and the United Nations, but  of all mankind, to determine what human destiny shall be on this planet.
6.5 In the red book, the Director-General noted the uncertainty, not to say the lack of  agreement, as to the precise nature of Unesco's contribution to peace and as to the prac-
23  tical means to be employed to this end. Indeed, if we are to give a literal interpretation  to the raison d'être of Unesco as stated in the Preamble of its Constitution, the objectives  of international peace and of the common welfare of mankind could prima facie be advanced  simply "through the educational, scientific and cultural relations of the peoples of the  world", It would seem therefore that Unesco's efforts on behalf of international peace have  been inadequate because of the priotiry heretofore given to education and science, to the  detriment of culture. This much is conceded by the Director-General when he observes  that "Unesco's mission is essentially a cultural one and that its centre of gravity is des-  tined, in a relatively distant future, to shift from education, where it is located at present,  to science, then from science to culture and that the social and human sciences will play a  most important rôle in this process", We therefore welcome the suggestions contained in  resolution 5, 531 of the fifteenth session of the General Conference that Unesco's action in  this sector be accelerated and intensified, bearing in mind the need to attain a more bal-  anced level of economic, social, educational, scientific and cultural development within  the ensuing development decade.
6.6 Furthermore, Article I, paragraph 1 of the Unesco Constitution clearly lays down what  the objective of the Organization shall be in order effectively to contribute to peace and  security, namely, "to further universal respect for justice, for the rule of law and for the  human rights and fundamental freedoms which are affirmed ... by the Charter of the United  Nations". Unesco must therefore persevere in its appointed task to the end that the tyranny  of might shall not ride rough-shod over the face of the earth,
6.7 It is appropriate that the Director-General should direct the efforts of the special pro-  motion section of the Secretariat to carrying out this long-term plan of integrated action  as Unesco's contribution to peace, towards the eradication of racialism in 1971, which  year the United Nations has designated as the International Year for the Elimination of Racial  Discrimination. The Philippine delegation submits that the Secretariat's efforts in 1971  could well be directed towards ways and means, within Unesco's special fields of compe-  tence, to eradicate not only racialism but also colonialism, which are the two most viru-  lent forms of racial discrimination. For despite the attainment of political independence,  many developing nations are still afflicted by economic and cultural imperialism,
6.8 The Philippine delegation considers that the foregoing, together with the implementa-  tion of the Convention and Recommendation against Discrimination in Education, would be  an earnest of the growing commitment of Unesco to the fulfilment of its constitutional ob-  jective of promoting universal respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental  freedoms for all without discrimination, as proclaimed in the Universal Declaration of  Human Rights,
6.9 In line with the dominant preoccupation for the restoration of culture to its rightful  place in human development, the Philippine delegation supports the programme outlined in  paragraphs 951-958 of the blue book and paragraphs 298 and 299 of the red book, More  than that, we look forward to the increasing involvement of the Organization in specific  projects to revive, stimulate, preserve and enrich Asian cultures.
6.10 More specifically, Mr. President, we hope that Unesco will find it possible to lend  its valuable support to the proposed non-governmental Association of Asian Culture, which  was launched by the First Lady of the Philippines on 22 June 1970. The Association is to  be composed of distinguished ladies of the Asian Chiefs of State or Heads of governments  and such ladies as have been chosen by their people to be their national leaders, In the  words of Madame Marcos, "this informal Association would be our instrument for pre-  serving Asian culture, for stimulating Asian creativity and fostering deeper mutual under-  standing", Favourable responses have already been received from Her Majesty Queen  Sirikit of Thailand and Their Excellencies Madame Giri of India, Madame Suharto of Indo-  nesia and Madame Sato of Japan. Plans are now on foot to invite the First Ladies of the  Asian Member States of Unesco to hoiu the inaugural meeting of the Association at an early
23  date. In this connexion I beg permission, Mr, President, to have appended to the record  of this meeting the text of the speech of Madame Marcos at the EXPO-70 in'Osaka, for-  mally launching the Philippine proposal. (1  €.11 Within this context, it is similarly the hope of the Philippine delegation that Unesco,  in planning major cultural tourism projects for South East Asia (referred to in paragraph
327 of document 16 C/4), will include the fabulous rice terraces of Banawe in Luzon, These  rice terraces, built by hand in the massive heartland of Luzon, date back more than 2,000  years. They attest to the ingenuity and skills of the ancient Filipinos in harnessing limited  water resources for rice culture, They are not only a work of art but a unique engineering  feat worthy of preservation even in this Space Âge.
6.12 The Philippine delegation likewise supports the suggested lines of action indicated by  the Director-General in paragraphs 156 to 161 of the red book for the greater participation  and involvement of young people in Unesco-sponsored activities, Indeed, if we are to instil  a sense of responsibility in young people, and give them a sense of belonging, they must  be allowed to share the burden of both decision-making and administration in national edu-  cational, scientific and cultural organizations, While we ‘have not been immune from the  universal upheaval of student protests and demonstrations, I am pleased to state that we  have taken steps to meet the increasing demand of the young Filipino intellectuals to par-  ticipate actively in national affairs. The Philippine Government is perhaps one of the first  to have adopted a Magna Carta for students - with the creation in 1969 of its Youth and Stu-  dent Affairs Board composed of representatives of student organizations - and appointed  the President of the Student Council to serve on the State University's Board of Regents.  We therefore heartily endorse the Director-General's suggestion that representatives of  youth should be given membership in Unesco National Commissions and non-governmental  organizations as a step forward to the ultimate realization of the goal of general partici-  pation of the young in all sectors of Unesco's programme,
6.13 The Philippine delegation also supports the examination by the Organization of the  problem of "brain drain", which may be characterized as technical asristance in reverse,  i.e. from the developing countries to the industrialized countries, The Philippines, for  example, has been losing every year thousands of medical doctors, nurses and teachers  who have been lured by the higher remuneration available in the industrialized countries,  where they are sometimes exploited. The problem is perhaps not so much how to compen-  sate the developing countries for the loss of their investment in the training of these pro-  fessionals, as how to assist these countries to accelerate their economic development so  that they can give gainful employment to their highly-skilled manpower. The Organization  could also utilize more of these professionals in various technical assistance projects and  encourage their recruitment by other developing countries where their services  are most needed.
6.14 As far as the educational programme in the red book is concerned, we find it diffi-  cult to reconcile the apparent conflict in the Director-General's reference in paragraph
141 (b) to "establishing a network for training educators for the preparation of teachers at  all levels" on the one hand, and the earlier reference in paragraphs 73 and 77 to tiia ter-  mination of Unesco support by the end of this biennium for the Asian Institute for Teacher-  Educators in Quezon City, on the other hand. For if we were to follow the first of these to  its logical conclusion, the more rational decision would be to maintain and increase sup-  port for existing regional teacher-educator training centres rather thanto withdraw Unesco  financial aid altogether, It is, therefore, our hope that the Executive Board and the  Director-General, in line with the central theme of the long-range outline plan "for the re-  generation of education", will continue to extend Regular budget support to the Asian Insti-  tute for Teacher-Educators in Quezon City.
8.15 We regard the decision of the Executive Board and of the Director-General to pro-  mote the comparability and equivalence of various types of secondary school certificates  and higher educational diplomas and degrees as a positive measure to prevent discrimina-
(1) See Annex I to this verbatim record. 738
23  tion and ensure reasonable access of students from the developing countries to higher in-  stitutions of learning in the industrial countries, We hope that through Unesco a model  agreement for equivalences and reciprocal validation of certificates and degrees will soon  be submitted for adoption by the Member States. This would be in line with the Director-  General's call for concerted action in 1971-1972 for the democratization of education,
6.16 For the International Education Year and the Second Development Decade, the Philip  pine delegation considers it desirable to continue the efforts undertaken in certain areas  such as educational planning, research and development. This is the least thatcanbedone  if Unesco is not to be remiss in Its duty of erasing ignorance and prejudice from the minds  of men.
6,17 May I now address myself to the very controversial problem of funding the ever-  increasing programmes, both biennial and long-term, as well as the escalating administrative  and staff costs. Mr, President, my delegation wishes to associate itself with a number of  distinguished colleagues in calling for more severe measures to maintain present levels  of assessments and contributions, For if Unesco is to keep the integrity of its member-  ship, it must find means to make the price of such membership reasonable, not to say  bearable. Already at the beginning of this Conference, eight Member States have been  found to be in arrears. It is not a coincidence that they come from developing regions of  the world. If we are now to call for increased assessments, I am afraid that more Mem -  ber States will find it increasingly difficult to meet their basic financial obligations to Unesco.
6.18 No attempt to fix the anticipated tempo of growth of an organization can go beyond a  mere estimate, In all national planning, the projection of the rate of growth of the Gross  National Product is both a forecast and a targei, and hence the estimate of investment can  be increased or lowered at will. On the other hand it is an accepted principle, in the pre-  paration of national budgets, that the estimate of expenditures should not exceed the esti-  mate of revenues. It follows that the rate of growth of the Unesco budget for any future  period cannot be arrived at solely on the basis of stated goals and anticipated expenditures,  without taking into account the available resources of the Organization, My delegation,  therefore, would be unable to support the rate of growth proposed by the Director-General,  which is even higher than that of the Gross National Product of the developing countries,  unless it is given the assurance that the added financing required would be available from  savings or from extra-budgetary sources, or assessed as a last resort against the rich  member countries.
6.19 The Philippine delegation is in full accord with all proposals calculated to husband  and allot the resources o the Organization according to a well-established plan with clearly  defined priorities. We cai not but enthusiastically approve, therefore, the Director-General's  proposal to decentralize thie Secretarint and to farm out certain of its-activities, and even  of Unesco's programme itrialf, where these could usefully be carried out by international  non-governmental organizations, National Cor missions and other national institutions.
6.20 As to methodology, we have already indiceted our reservations to the phasing out of  financial aid from the Regular budget to certain regional centres and institutes. Member  States might be bard put to persuade thelr peoples nf the need to delete from the Unesco  Regular budget the outlays for the running expenses of these concrete symbols of Unesco  rasistance to developing countries, while at the same time taxing them with additional con-  tributions to the Organization in the name of development vssistance.
6.21 The Philippine delegation notes the appeal of the Director-Goneral, inhis White Paper  on Development, for the international community to define the ways nnd means of its co-  operation in the development tasks which Member States and Unesco will have to tackle  during the seventies, The Philippine delegation attaches great importance, in this con-  nexion, to document 16 C/7 containing the comments by organizations of the United Nations  system on the proposed programme and budget for the next biennium. To say the least, it  stresses co-operation with the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies, notably ILO
23  and WHO, with a view to the elimination of overlapping and so that Unesco will not dupli-  cate work already undertaken or being undertaken by other competent bodies.
6.22 What we have said about maintaining the budget at tolerable levels, however, should  not be considered as diminishing in any way our solidarity with the appeal of the Group of
71, which is supported by the Director-General in paragraph 58 (c) of his White Paper on  Development {document 16 C/13}, for Member States which are economically and techni-  cally advanced substantially to increase their financial and technical assistance to devel-  oping countries to at least 1% of their Gross National Product, particularly through multi-  lateral channels, in order effectively to assist in the efforts to achieve the aims and objec-  tives of the Second Development Decade, 8°
6.23 The Philippine delegation also favours in principle ‘the reduction in tKe number of in-  ternational conferences to the barest minimum, To thi} ‘end we are prepa Fed to go even  farther than the Executive Board's proposal to limit conferences to about 15 per biennium,  We favour, however, the holding of more regional meet;ngs, since this will facilitate the  decentralization of the Secretariat proposed by the Direstor-General and woyld also en-  courage Member States to co-operate more fully with edch other in discussing their com-  mon problems on a regional level. ; [4
6.24 Let me conclude, Mr. President, with the assurance that if I have expréssed some  strong views about existing operational directives and abyut certain tendencies in adminis-  trative actions by the Executive Board and the Director-General, these should ot be taken  as critical of the Organization but as a sincere expression of the desire of my government  to assist Unesco in the early realization of its primary objectives, to promote peace and  the welfare of mankind. For despite existing difficulties, the Filipino n°tion stands squarely  behind Unesco in the unrelenting pursuit of its sublime ends,  A
6.25 In the words of the President of the Philippines, His Excellency Ferdinand EF. Marcos,  in his "State of the Nation" address to the Congress of the Philippines: "The new Filipino  man brims over with the creative and the purposeful spirit, fees problems not as obstacles  but as opportunities for achievement, eagerly engages problems and challenges and views  the future as a challenge to greatness'. Needless to say, it is this spirit which informs  Philippine participation in the work of Unesco, Thank you, Mr, Fresident. (1)
(7.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 thank the head of the Philippine delegation,
(7.2) I call on Dr. Okasha, Minister of Culture and head of the United Arab Republic delegation.  (an iol ins pl i, pend] ) IA LS Ep pdf 5 9555 andl 2 ADN  vues di sae
5508 SGA of HL os bass! WE! SA NU 1 | EEOC EI COURT | SIA 0 VS 15  Jord of Gos ol p55 0 BALAI CSI ob LÉ eis, de 150 Ouf pe LAIT J  oti ld 555 Ge bad 6 55058 ayo gel aus JUront I Gl Se on  of msi dey dl us Jal 5e Sl Gosadl JAI ls gad le, 6 Lisle
(1) See also additional statement presented by Mr, Ingles (Annex IItothis verbatim report).
23  ets lie, UW SPRY 0% J OY | IPN JOR VW | Py | INSP J | WT JY Lis gl 1 Le Sal  JHaolinss, adiycais of sng 6 CLS 5450 6 lil Jin 6 pia pil le SI  gate of YI Ltn Gof 6 lly GAIN Jal 5e Lido Malas JUIN 4 wii 6 ge)  pill jas GI Lys Was ddl Lal jas ay ead pnt] cos SLL daasa JS  oo idles 1545 55  sl pl Lis, oe Lay WATE ELE] BW Pu | plus eds Le le (555 Lie canal add oop gx  ty aed) Jas ill LAON IAS, sly le Dolan USE saad] yds po  PLU ell Goldy Tate «05000 oan LLL «gold (Ll ssl  y ses 6 JAI Geol dae Saal Ul Sse AS US Je Ley puss)!  ooadoladl is SIN 11 all ag  Cody Gel Ll smal Got) aed GI asst oF 91 SN Gall ed - ay  oldly sil dal punt) del 5 6 pas Lines tly Sal ple mae apd  Grand ALL 6 Rhian pb Ldl JS, 6 paugiyy dpdsdl sles, isladl yo aslasf  cos J | SRT PE § plod 50 Jogo Sle  RUNNION |B WEE ROSIE. & BPI DO Jy BAP Vyans JN (PINES [| FY RVR Qu 6 el AIT - AN  Sas gdh Lehi, Wb Pagar Se Los Se, dual fay ndl in pend! only  vial lad &aaadl Jeadd 15055 6 poland] pladl SS ga [er con Gull  Spee S ad 33lnudl Gale oped] Guaadl I IL el of eee LS — AD  Pin os ali V5 0 Lis Liyesge) Lust, pla bust ole pile 55505 aol  hdi Gene SI oe [Gam 1 gae goin) elon! al wif by Sie aiçanti op LY)  JUN 4 | I WA | UPR! J W [RRC] WS I V3 Br ay WENN | 6 RANGS 58 Gt MANN gas JRORTS.  vad Lynas tae gaol  PENS | JRO |  os Las! sol  ele by QU php ddl asnadl oi 1, a¥) Gos 6 LME upd She oJ pal AN  os Jin ¥ LS ga Lespuas SIL has SSI ol of analy 6 SLA  Dolan?) endl oF pL asl ua, Wl asl 6 sde, HNP | J WF I TUR  J | geus fs 6 #1 54e 40 1 PON OY WEN | 5 Gentil JUIN VOUS J SPA WAST J IY  od dona JVI 15h das, dhe GL Let Lely Mages slid JLasdt Joss  Like Jos Le say 6 dled! LRU ar Oo sE SAT gpsladdly oladl Lady ins, Leas,  DLL dai, Lsdss 6 adliadly godly alia ga tS be obeys jd  grd 5 Le Lol pes se RSI dé 5 6 SO I PN | SLA LOST RAP RU RY RNY Ra  ol Lilet! 6 or y HUE Je Ji Les ja Lolo (Ste Gish Cds — AN  ising WY ss 6 Lys LOI: jad ge Lei Le JS 6 pe LAIT p31 py Jai  ea pds Los 6 WT ge last ill) Spa ha IE c LLG Led was LA JS,  Ss oid! ALLAN slau da plist inde Jods glass Jol pe Golo Lola  RIES) SS ALI Xe 5 oi
23  RES 515) Te Ds) Jy PE UE jee DYE SU | Ry CR | I POUR JU WRN CL AAA  GHAÈS a SIT 0 SAS dl Lane goons a Gol 8 angl endl gu os  SRT ES IE SY IST o% CRVRPVA I IE SURGING Ib SE EON] II GS GAS Lg LI  AS EI 5e WPS RY] SVU AE AN NN Et JUS ps Lois  Golo Ld parti of FLAN JU wad! ob 10) Lpsiis yall CEU A  = pl Gp UE sr sh er ore Ley LILI pa VI is 4  FENCE US Son |  os ASU dpa pda! Lie as gid Le td AM eens pe pl Le - AN  elas ths Lol ole MeV y aL, imyhadl yy dus lass] ph 5 dull Endl,  Jala JS om 11 jf Lol le Lol Jilly 6 iol amet py Leta JS0 illic,  ICI SH Fp = REE IPR Ry RO UT [DO TR TYR SOT RPE 2  od lr Le pe GL 55 6 Ye lelaidl BLEU | ge 0584 asl phd aun  LS os Yay 6 CLS laldl oda Céline go JUL golaadl (Us Sy agé ga dad  deal Vo ned 555 ied Modis US ody. madly andl Sad) of jas dilds  ps mole daisy el al blaadl ile, os Loys Lesl 6 gyaidl wigeal i  eRe LU FI SRT FS CRUE PRP DE JCISERU NS SVD) RN | J FTW TX] 8  EP LET Ree  of an 6° YS | If SUEY | BY PL | PR JS. OU | Sp TE WW US | WA | Re BS  realy Ul ael Lil edo of dass 6 SLI SAUT 1S, pis oi AI ia  Las ASE | OY Le ALU Irs PE JUIN 06 | TC Tir I. J I IVR | J TE J J FN  ele ya Jl VS. Les pans all peal ool tres EY oI CRC oss of +  -
6 #LäsŸl poole 6 pant SI at  IT SU Lyall hen! Jai mad] cantdl lise ST fF cl cS 1510 AOÛT  vL sll Gleb 5e ILE jee SUT len 22 AIE Lele past i gual  omis Beir dgd dss phedl Lies ol BG pyadl pts Lips of Se Ul  SN dope 6 Jedi y cond iy, pest wlan WG 6 pleud phy Jad wl  oba¥ UY Satis oe Lis LU Condi Las 6 Jose]; Lao Ld pd Es de AIS  sf rir bad GLS at pe Loa a Ld aes of 6 AU SAN ei  S|  andl Jens idl 155508 ef jl) dlls WS sans) UE, SIT al ay  ail an LE] Lge es sl 51 dl» hiluss 905 8 dE ALI ALL 6 A4 IRON PO J  GS vd 553) pars (age LIV IRR WOT | RW: J Le Ja Lai  es ECT IN PE SEE BE BU DER FPR PE] FYI ET FORRES SPU I SCO 5 I |  eS hy GIL LV) Ge erg) Let aan oS pall pad] Glad) LAS aps  ani 20s I 5 55455 6 Rye IY WRT Sy SURTI | By SURES | IN | | el st das  I | PR | ROP SPO | 58 SN at SV | LL SSL
35 aed UT SUSE Jal pn Glyadl pala his gil HUILE ol op yy  LA, aS 6 ana las palais lob alas SUSE od agus Ml Lin ds 55 aif  Cobelli (55 A5 Le pas 6 ails JULY Labs dl pl  o pS set
(8.1) Dr. SARWAT OKASHA (United Arab Republic) (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen: How dearly should I have liked to stand among you  today, full of joy, to talk about the accomplishments of your respected Organization during the  two years which have gone by since I stood before you at the last General Conferencel How  dearly should I have wished to take back with me to President Gamal Abdul Nasser a ray of light  from your mission of justice and toi) for the good and peace of the world! But it was decreed  that President Gamal Abdul Nasser should suddenly leave us a few weeks ago; and I therefore  come to you unwillingly, with a heavy heart and sad words, having lost in our President a life-  time friend. In him the world has lost a stalwart fighter for justice and peace, who always in-  sisted that every one of the oppressed should have his place under the sun. In him Egypt has  lost the leader who took her with one giant stride into the age of progress,
(8.2) I was deeply moved by the news that the Executive Board had eulogized our departed Presi-  dent and the General Conference had stood to .‘iourn his passing, and also by the gracious speech  in which the former President of the General Conference recounted President Nasser's accom-  plishments and praised his political leadership of the Arab world. Iam filled with emotion as I  see you here around me, closer thana family, extending your hands in generous, sincere sympathy,
(8.3) I must now express my deepest thanks for this gracious condolence offered to a heart full  of grief by the foriner and present Presidents of the General Conference, the Director-General  of Unesco, his Deputy and his assistants, the Chairman and members of the Executive Board,  the heads and members of the delegations, and all those who work for Unesco.
(8.4) Mr. President, I hope that you find in the greetings I bring you from the President of the  United Arab Republic and in the thanks of its people a new assertion of our commitment to Unesco,  which has become a part of the thought of contemporary man and a symbol of joint action for the  good of mankind.
(8.5) It also gives me great pleasvre to congratulate my dear friend Dr. Atilio Dell'Oro Maini  on his unanimous election as President of our Conference. There is nothing surprising about  this unanimity, for since he first set foot in the Executive Board, first as a member and then as  its Chairman, he has shown us a personality of great power tempered by modesty and charming  humanity. Please, my very dear friend, accept my most sincere and respectful congratulations.
(8.6) I had the honour a few months ago to take part in the International Conference on Cultural  Policies, and I had the pleasure to see Unesco paying to culture as much care and attention as to  its sister education, in recognition of the important part played by culture in the economic and  social development of all the countries of the world, developing and advanced alike. I was glad  that Unesco should call for careful financing of cultural activities according to a rational long-  term plan to be drawn up and executed by young persons and creative artists in co-operation with  public authorities, This appeal shows a way through the crisis of youth's rebellion against so  many beliefs, conditions and traditions, and recognizes the ability of culture to satisfy souls  which thirst for reality, and to bring groups arid peoples more closely together,
(8.17) I will admit frankly our disbelief in the ability of traditional methods to bridge the gap be-  tween the developing nations, burdened by shortage, and the advanced nations enjoying all the  benefits of great scientific discoveries. The world needs a sincere combined effort by mankind  to find ways of narrowing this gap, which may endanger world peace and security,
(8.8) A rapid look at the Organization's programme and budget, which is before you for ratifi-  cation, will show how far and fast it has moved towards meeting the needs of world peace and  assisting the developing peoples to catch up with the advanced States in their progress towards a  brighter and more fruitful future. Another look at the valuable report prepared by à group of  experts appointed to evaluate the Organization's accomplishments in this Development Decade  shows us a sincere desire to adapt present conditions tothe world's rapid development in the 1970s.
(8.9) I support with enthusiasm the important suggestion made in this report that education, the  natural and social sciences, culture and information should no longer be treated as ifidependent  sectors, each with its special programmes, but as parts of a whole system in which education
23  is the common denominator. Nevertheless, I gravely doubt the wisdom of making one particular  sector the pivot of the others' activity, fully, though I agree with the statement in the report that  these various sectors should co-operate instead of remaining isolated fragments. This in no  way detracts from the importance of education, of which I have no doubts, but simply advocates  a concern for creative activity and for the development of science, culture and the social sciences  for their own sake and not merely as auxiliaries to education,
(8.10) The whole world is looking towards you in this International Education Year. Now that  education has become the right of every citizen at every age, now that there is a deep faith and  belief in the importance of science as a spur to human development, and of culture as the mould  of human existence, the world looks to you full of hope that man will be the pivot of all your devel-  opment programmes, for man is the architect of civilization and the lawful reaper of its fruits.
(8.11) While I should like to reaffirm the gratitude of the Egyptian people for the International  Campaign to save the Monuments of Nubla, which protected Egypt's immortal monuments from  inundation, 1 confess to you that today our eyes are afflicted by the sight of our great Nile flowing  over the island of Philae between the High Dam and the Aswan Barrage, covering the temples of  Isis, Goddess of Love and Beauty, worshipped in the East and the West, and leaving only the up-  per part of the great structure above water, Our admiration for the monuments left by man at  the dawn of his artistic creativity compels us to do for those temples what we have done for the  Nubian monuments south of the High Dam.
(8.12) I recall, as I talk to you, certain moving expressions of grief for the carved stones of the  temples of Philae, falling one after the other into the waters of the Nile to be swalled and for-  gotten, These expressions were penned by Pierre Loti in his charming book "The Death of  Philae", in which h2 recorded his impressions during a Nile cruise round the temples. He saw  the shrine in which ancient man worshipped Isis, the symbol of the Eternal Woman, and saw how  man's modern engineering accomplishments sweep away his foreisthers' creations, which col-  lapse and disappear, carrying with them the memories of his first step in search of beauty.
(8.13) The great success of international co-operation in saving the monuments of Nubia has  awakened in our hearts fresh hope of saving the temples of Philae by a new international co-  operation and affirming that man today is the guardian of his ancestors' creations - a fact which,  in my opinion, affirms his own eternity.
(9.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1thank H,E. Mr. Okasha for his statement.
(8.2) 1 now call on H,E. Mr. Sene, leader of the delegation of Senegal.
10,1 M, SENE (Sénégal). -  Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi de saluer votre brillante élection et de m'asso-  cier aux félicitations méritées que vous ont adressées tous les orateurs qui m'ont précédé  à cette tribune, Soyez-en sûr, Monsieur le Président, il ne s'agit pas, pour moi, d'accom-  plir un rite, mais bien de manifester le sentiment sincère et profond qu'éprouve ma délé-  gation, C'est, il est vrai, la première fois que je participe à la Conférence générale de  l'Unesco, Mais j'ai pu apprécier, à l'occasion du vote unanime qui vous a porté à la prési-  dence de cette assemblée, les gentiments de très haute estime et de parfaite confiance  qu'éprouvent à votre égard toutes les délégations ici présentes, Les fonctions que vous  avez eu à assumer dans le passé, les amitiés que vous avez déjà acquises dans cette mai-  son, votre présence au Conseil exécutif, dont vous fates le président, vos qualités de ju-  riste et de diplomate, vos remarquables dons d'orateur, tout cela vous désignait, très na-  turellement, pour diriger nos travaux.
10.2 Par-delà votre personne, la délégation du Sénégal tient aussi, Monsieur le Président,  à exprimer sa sympathie au peuple ami d'Argentine et à toute l'Amérique latine, région qui  se range, avec l'Asie et l'Afrique, parmi celles dont le destin est lié à celui du Tiers Monde,
10,3 Il m'est agréable aussi, Monsieur le Président, de rendre hommage à votre prédé-  cesseur, M, Etéki-Mboumoua, qui a su honorer l'Afrique en accomplissant sa mission  avec dévouement et efficacité,
10,4 Je suis heureux que l'occasion me soit donnée d'exprimer au Président du Conseil  exécutif notre admiration pour la façon exemplaire dont il expose les vues de cet important  organe sur les problèmes qui lui sont soumis,
10,5 Enfin, permettez-moi, Monsieur le Président, de m'adresser encore une fois au Di-  recteur général et à ses collaborateurs pour les remercier de l'effort considérable qu'ils  ont déployé pour préparer les dossiers de notre réunion, Vous avez su, Monsieur le Direc-  teur général, mettre à notre disposition des documents précis et précieux ; d'utiles syn-  thèses, des analyses fécondes, le tout prénenté avec une rigueur remarquable, Ainsi, les  débats qui vont se poursuivre tout au long de notre session pourront s'appuyer sur une do-  cumentation abondante qui regroupe avec art toutes les données essentielles, Nous avons,  d'autre part, accueilli avec une intense émotion et une entière satisfaction votre décision  d'aller jusqu'au bout de votre mandat - car votre présence à la tête de l'Unesco, que vous  avez su diriger avec une passion militante et une autorité lucide, est plus que nécessaire  à la veille de la Deuxième Décennie du développement,
10,6 Monsieur le Président, la Conférence générale est pour nous l'occasion de venir en  ce haut lieu de l'esprit, situé au coeur de la France, pour proclamer solennellement notre  engagement total et notre foi éternelle en la mission élevée de l'Unesco,
10,7 Nous sommes convaincus que le but ultime de l'Unesco est de contribuer à la paix par  la coopération internationale dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la science, de la culture  et de l'information,
10,8 De nos jours, le problème de la paix est intimement lié à celui du développement,  Aussi le développement est-il devenu l'un des objectifs principaux de l'Unesco dans les do-  maines qui relèvent de sa compétence, Le rapport d'activité du Directeur général ainsi  que le Projet de programme et de budget pour l'exercice 1971-1972 en témoignent,
10,9 Le vieil adage romain “Si tu veux la paix prépare la guerre" n'est plus de mise en  notre siècle, La paix, dans notre monde, n'est possible que si les esprits y sont préparés,  La paix est aujourd'hui l'affaire de tous, Elle ne peut être fondée ni sur la division du  monde en blocs, ni sur la stratégie de la guerre froide, La paix, pour être durable, doit  se traduire par un état d'esprit universel, par une pratique humaniste à l'échelle mdndiale,  avant d'être une réalité politique, Dès lors, seule une éducation visant à la compréhension  internationale et à l'établissement d'une solidarité intellectuelle et morale capable de libé-  rer l'homme peut permettre de faire régner la paix sur la planète,
10,10 Le document 16 C/12, intitulé "Contribution de l'Unesco à la paix et tâches de  l'Unesco en ce qui concerne l'élimination du racisme et du colonialisme", met en lumière  la vocation généreuse de notre Organisation, Evidemment, l'Unesco à elle seule ne peut  ni assurer la paix ni éliminer le racisme et le colonialisme ; et le terme de "contribution"  employé dans le document 16 C/12 l'indique bien, Mais sa position privilégiée au sein du  système des Nations Unies et de la communauté internationale lui confère des devoirs dans  ce domaine et lui donne des chances de succèg dans son entreprise,
10,11 A cet égard, je suis heureux de constater que notre Organisation est pleinement  consciente de la façon dont elle pourrait se rapprocher de ses objectifs en procédant à une  recherche qui combinerait les ressources des sciences biologiques et celles des sciences  sociales, en vue de la réduction des causes d'agressivité chez l'homme,
10,12 Cependant, l'homme possède, pour éviter la violence aveugle et les conflits absurdes,  une suprême ressource, qui est le dialogue, A vrai dire, c'est la mort du dialogue qui en-  gendre les guerres, Le problème est donc, pour l'Unesco, d'utiliser la force morale qu'elle
23  incarne pour donner aux hommes la conscience qu'ils appartiennent à la même espèce, à  la même famille, et qu'ils doivent oeuvrer à l'avènement d'une ère nouvelle de paix et de  fraternité.
10.13 Mais comment pouvons-nous rester les bras croisés devant la réalité déchirante  que vivent les victimes de l'apartheid, soumises dans des conditions inhumaines à la domi-  nation d'une minorité ? Comment peut-on comprendre qu'en plein XXe siècle on laisse des  Blancs, sur la terre africaine, tenter d'ériger le racisme en système de gouvernement,  foulant ainsi aux pieds tous les principes de justice humaine et détruisant un immense po-  tentiel de fraternité ?
10.14 Comment taire ici le cri de révolte légitime des peuples qu'opprime le colonialisme  portugais et auxquels le Portugal refuse le droit à l'indépendance ? Et pourtant, le Portu-  gal sait qu'à notre époque l'impérialisme colonial est mort, Il est enterré, Et il ne sert à  rien de vouloir ressusciter les cadovres, Tant pis pour le Portugal s'il n'a pas su tirer de  l'histoire contemporaine les leçons qui s'imposaient, Ce qui est sûr, c'est que la marche  des peuples vers la conquête de l'indépandance est devenue irréversible.
10,15 Monsieur le Directeur général, veus avez su, “vec la fui en l'homme qui vous ca-  ractérise, traduire par des accents poignants la profondeur du drame qui se joue sur cette  partie australe de notre continent qui est devenue le dernier bastion du colonialisme et du  racisme en Afrique,
10.16 Monsieur le Président, l'Unesco a le devoir de se pencher sur cette situation tra-  gique qui menace gravement la paix en Afrique et dans le monde,
10,17 Malgré l'arsenal d'armements dont dispose les Blancs d'Afrique du Sud, de Nami-  bie et de Zimbabwé, nous savons que tôt ou tard la vérité finira par triompher, Ce qui se  passe chaque jour dans le monde démontre que la puissance militaire est aujourd'hui in-  suffisante pour maintenir éternellement certains peuples sous la domination d'autres  peuples en vertu de la loi du plus fort. Mais le temps presse,
10.18 Loin de nous toute idée de prêcher la haine ou la violence : nous avons voulu, sim-  plement, indiquer le chemin À suivre pour la conquête de la dignité, )
10,19 Je songe en ce moment au poème de Léopold Sédar Senghor qui chante dans "Ethio-  piques' le courage de Chaka, chef zoulou qui a lutté hérofquement contre l'occupation des  Blancs en Afrique du Sud ; dans ce poème figurent les vers que voici :  "Je n'ai haf que l'oppression .…. ‘  Je dis qu'il n'est pas de paix armée, de paix sous l'oppression,  De fraternité sans égalité, j'ai voulu tous les hommes frères, "  C'est parce que nous croyons en la fraternité humaine, en la civilisation de l'universel,  que nous souhaitons avant tout créer chez nous les bases dont noue avons besoin pour nous  mettre nous-mêmes en harmonie avec ces conceptions que nous n'avons jamais cessé d'af-  firmer, Et nul lieu n'était plus indiqué que l'Unesco pour lancer, une fois de plus, un appel  À la conscience universelle et tenter de la rendre plus sensible tux souffrances humiliantes  que sublssent des fractions de la population africaine,
10.20 De même, à la veille de la Deuxième Décennie du développement, l'Unesco doit sen-  sibiliser les pays nantis à la né-essité de combler le fossé grandissant qui les sépare de  la zone de misère et de pauvreté que recouvre le Tiers Monde, Car c'est là aussi une me-  nace pour la paix internationale, '
10,21 C'est une certitude que "le développement est le nouveau nom de la paix", comme  nous le dit le message de Sa Sainteté le pape Paul VI, Il s'agit bien sir du développement  de tout l'homme et de tous les hommes - en d'autres termes, du déve cppement et de la va-  lorisation toujours plus grande des conditions de l'existence de l'homme et de tous les  hommes sur la planète,  T44
10,22 Monsieur le Directeur général, je constate avec satisfaction que votre rapport inti-  tulé "Evaluation des résultats de la Première Décennie pour le développement dans les do-  maines de la compétence de l'Unesco et programme de l'Organisation rour la Deuxième  Décennie" (document 16 C/13) projette un éclairage nouveau sur les problèmes complexes  du développement, Car le développement est un processus cumulatif de nouvelles cohé-  rences, une oeuvre de synthèse qui implique, d'abord, l'éducation des hommes qui en sont  bénéficiaires, En effet, le développement de l'homme, à l'échelle collective ou individuelle,  se mesure au degré de responsabilité qu'il est à même d'exercer sur son propre destin,  Autrement dit, la finalité du développement est de permettre à chaque homme de se réali-  ser dans le monde en mutation qui l'entoure,
10,23 Au demeurant, la cara: téristique essentielle de l'homme du XXe siècle est d'ôtre  dans la mouvance de l'évolution actuelle et de faire face aux changements qui se préparent,  Ici apparaît l'importance de l'éducation comme moyen de donner de nouveaux savoir-faire  en vue de mobiliser les énergies humaines nécessaires pour l'accomplissement de ce dé-  veloppement qui se confond, pour nous, avec la construction de nos jeunes nations,
10,24 Monsieur le Directeur général, le programme que vous nous proposez dans Je docu-  ment 16 C/5 répond à nos préoccupations sur plusieurs points. Malheureusement, le temps  de parole qui m'est accordé ne me permet pas d'analyser tous les chapitres et paragraphes  de cet important document, Néanmoins, qu'il me soit permis de présenter rapidement  quelques observations,
10,25 S'agissant de l'éducation, je dois préciser qu'au Sénégal nous tenons pour sacré le  droit à l'éducation qui est inscrit dans notre Constitution, Mais les moyens dont nous dis-  posons ne nous permettent pas, bien que nous consacrions 30 % de notre budget national à  l'éducation, d'atteindre un taux de scolarisation de 100 %, Bien sûr, il efit été facile de  pratiquer une scolarisation de masse, abstraction faite de tout effort pour atteindre un ni-  veau international, C'eût été, à notre sens, une solution de facilité, Les pays en voie de dé-  veloppement ne doivent pas se satisfaire de l'expansion quantitative au détriment de l'amé-  lioration qualitative de l'éducation, Il est certain que si nous voulons résoudre la probléma-  tique muitidimensionnelle du développement, nous devons former des cadres de valeur,  porteurs de progrès, ayant le sens de la responsabilité, de l'imagination et de la création,  en un mot des hommes capables. d'inventer de nouvelles valeurs scientifiques et téchniques  puisées aux-sources mêmes de nos civilisations, Ce faisant, nous devons participer au  mouvement de la recherche fondamentale et appliquée.
10,26 C'est pourquoi le Sénégal, pour sa part, salue avec ferveur l'initiative prise par  l'Unesco en vue de l'organisation de l'information scientifique, Désormais, "le développe-  ment est la science devenue culture", À cette seule condition, nos peuples front au rendez-  vous de l'universel comme des producteurs de civilisation, parlant le langage de la ratio-  nalité et de l'efficacité scientifique aù lieu de se présenter, les mains vides, comme  d'humbles disciples, de simples consommateurs de civilisetion, C'est l'évidence même :  placées devant la mutation accélérée de la civilisation techno-industrielle, nos civilisations  traditionnelles ne peuvent échapper au phénomène d'acculturation pour répondre aux exi-  gences de la modernité, Il nous faut répondre au défi de la culture moderne, qui favorise  le développement de toutes les civilisations et leur enrichissement réciproque par leur in-  terpénétration à travers l'échelle des rencontres, Il nous faut trouver de nouveaux modèles  intégrant la jeunesse dans notre quête permanente d'un nouvel humanisme, Aussi, devant  le besoin urgent d'adapter les méthodes et le système d'éducation aux réalités nouvelles,  le gouvernement sénégalais a-t-il décidé de procéder à une réforme de l'enseignement, Ici  apparaît l'importance de cette rénovation de l'enseignement que l'Esquisse à long terme  tracée par le Directeur général propose comme "l'objectif majeur à donner à l'Unesco dans  le domaine de l'éducation", La réforme de l'éducation consiste pour nous à élaborer un nou-  veau système d'éducation afin de préparer la jeunesse, les hommes de demain, Notre souci  est de développer l'imagination et la sensibilité de l'enfant, de former sa personnalité,  d'éveiller son sens critique et de lui donner l'esprit d'initiative, Une de nos préoccupations  est aussi de faire tomber la barrière entre enseignement technique et enseignement géné-
23  ral, car, à notre époque, l'enseignement doit intégrer les valeurs de la technologie pour  permettre à l'homme de dominer le monde complexe qui lentoure et de maftriser son propre  destin,
10.27 Mais il s'agit aussi pour nous de retrouver les assises de notre identité, Ecoutons  le chef de l'Etat sénégalais dans ce passage d'un récent discours qui résume l'esprit dela  réforme :  "Ayant à réformer son enseignement, de l'école primaire à l'université, sous la double  exigence de la modernité, mais auparavant, de l'idendité négro-africaine, le geuver-  nement sénégalais a donné priorité et primauté aux deux disciplines fondamentales que  sont les mathématiques et la linguistique, Et aussi à leurs conséquences pratiques : à  l'enseign ment de la technologie et à celui des langues, Par "langues", j'entends la  langue officielle, le français et les six langues nationales dont la transcription phoné-  tique sera définitive avant la fin de l'année ; mais encore les langues modernes de  grande extension, mais aussi les trois langues classiques que sont le latin, le grec et  l'arabe, "
10,28 En vérité, si nous avons le souci d'affirmer notre personnalité culturelle, de con-  cevoir nos programmes à partir de nos réalités immédiates, nous n'ignorons pas pour au-  tant les idées et les expériences culturelles qui ont fait leur preuve ici et là, C'est pour-  quoi, sous réserve des adaptations nécessaires, le Sénégal se conformera aux instructions  internationales qui, sans être normatives, sont régulatrices et créatrices d'harmonie,
10,29 D'ailleurs, l'éducation ne s'arrête plus à l'école ou à l'université : elle est devenue  une nécessité durant toute la vie, L'éducation permanente est une perspective de promotion  collective, un courant continu d'échanges entre le monde professionnel et l'univers du pro-  grès moderne, Certes, il serait fatal pour nos pays que des mandarins paresseux dussent,  après des efforts sans doute méritoires, se complaire dans la contemplation, dans la dé-  lectation de leur savoir, sans chercher chaque jour à se maintenir au rythme du progrès  de la science et de la technique,
10.30 L'éducation permanente n'est pas seulement l'éducation extrascolaire, elle repré-  sente l'ensemble des informations, des connaissances générales, techniques et civiques  - qui sont transmises sous diverses formes à l'étudiant comme au travailleur pour élever  sans cesse leur niveau de culture,
10, 31 C'est dans ce cadre aussi qu'il faut situer les programmes d'alphabétisation fonc-  tionnelle et le rôle des communications de masse, A cet égard, l'expérience tentée à  Dakar par le gouvernement sénégalais, en collaboration avec 1'Unesco, dans le cadre du  projet pilote de télévision éducative, a permis d'évaluer l'efficacité d'une gamme de tech-  niques modernes d'information mises au service de l'éducation des adultes, Nous souhai-  tons que l'Unesco continue à nous apporter son aide dans ce domaine comme dans celui de  la formation de spécialistes des techniques de l'information, assurée au Centre d'étude  des sciences et techniques de l'information de l'Université de Dakar (CESTI).
10,32 Si les moyens d'information de masse sont utiles à l'éducation permanente, il est  nécessaire d'en permettre l'accès à toutes les cultures, Toutefois, devant la puissance  menaçante des nouveaux moyens de communication et d'information, il convient de trou-  ver, dès à présent, des solutions concrètes pour éviter que nos pays en voie de développe-  ment ne risquent d'être envahis par des messages culturels dont nous ne contrôlerions ni  le contenu, ni l'éthique, ni la dynamique, et qui pourraient porter un grave préjudice à  l'équilibre de nos peuples, À coup sûr, si nous nous acheminons vers une civilisation scien-  tifique à la dimension de la planète, cette civilisation ne pourra s'accomplir que dans la  diversité des expressions culturelles, En définitive, seuls le respect de la dignité des cul-  tures et l'affirmation des personnalités nationales dans le cadre d'un développement mon-  dial harmonieux peuvent assurer le maintien de la paix dans le monde,
10.33 Monsieur le Directeur général, vous le devinez, c'est la raison pour laquelle nous  attachons un intérêt tout particulier à la partie réservée à la culture dans le programme
23  que vous nous avez présenté, Peut-être aurions nous souhaité qu'une place plus importante  fût accordée à la culture pour mieux situer son rôle dans le développement, Cela, nous  l'avons tenté à Venise, avec succès, grâce à votre belle initiative car, comme l'a dit le  chef de l'Etat sénégalais, "la culture est le fondement et le but ultime de toute bonne poli-  tique", Mais vous nous avez donné l'assurance qu'à l'avenir l'Unesco porterait beaucoup  plus d'intérêt aux problèmes de la culture qui conditionnent le destin même de l'homme  face au monde qu'il habite, avec ses transformations, ses changements, ses crises et ses  progrès, Nous exprimons le voeu fervent que l'Unesco puisse célébrer l'année internatio-  nale de la culture au cours de la Deuxième Décennie du développement, En attendant, nous  souhaitons que l'Organisation nous apporte une généreuse assistance pour nous aider à  faire connaître, à conserver et à diffuser l'héritage culturel de l'Afrique, son histoire,  ses arts, ses langues, en un mot ses valeurs de civilisation,
10,34 La participation de l'Unesco au premier Festival mondial des arts nègres, qui a  tenu ses assises à Dakar en 1966 et dont le succès a eu un retentissement profond à travers  le monde, a répondu à l'attente de tous les militants de la négritude,
10,35 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, j'ai voulu, en parcourant le pro-  gramme, souligner quelques-unes des activités qui ont une résonance particulière dans  mon pays. Je ne méconnais pas, toutefois, les autres projets, dont celui qui a trait à  l'homme et son milieu, Cette question a particulièrement retenu notre attention, parce  qu'elle intéresse la vie intime de l'homme placé devant les bouleversements de l'équilibre  écologique qu'engendrent les "nuisances" de la vie moderne: destruction de l'environne-  ment historique, pollution, désagrégation sociale, difficulté des relations humaines, etc.
10,36 Je ne peux terminer sans parler de la proposition relative à la célébration de l'an-  née internationale du livre en 1972, Mon pays attache en effet un grand intérêt aux pro-  blèmes du livre qui est, aujourd'hui, avec le film et avec les moyens audio-visuels, un  témoin de la permanence des cultures, À ce titre, mon pays sollicite de l'Unesco une aide  en faveur de l'Ecole sénégalaise de bibliothécaires, archivistes et documentalistes, qui  forme des cadres indispensables au développement culturel,
10,37 Certes, à côté de l'Unesco, les organisations non gouvernementales contribuent ac-  tivement à la réalisation de certains de nos projets qui se situent dans le domaine de com-  pétence de l'Organisation, Il faut souhaiter qu'une collaboration plus soutenue s'établisse  entre l'Unesco et ces organisations, qui ont donné la preuve de leur sérieux et de leur ef-  ficacité par les efforts qu'elles déploient pour élargir la zone d'influence de l'Organisation,
10.38 Pendant la Deuxième Décennie du développement, nous aurons recours à l'Unesco  pour la réalisation de divers projets, Nous solliciterons aussi des bourses pour la forma-  tion d'une quantité de plus en plus grande de cadres, Nous tirerons parti de l'apport et du  dévouement des experts que l'Organisation voudra bien mettre à notre disposition,
10,39 Monsieur le Président, qu'il me suffise de rappeler que le gouvernement du Séné-  gal approuve sans réserve le Projet de programme et de budget proposé par le Directeur  général, J'ai eu l'occasion de m'expliquer sur ce dernier point avant le vote, Nous saluons  aussi une innovation, l'Esquisse de programme à long terme, En tant que compatriotes du  philosophe franco-sénégalais Gaston Berger, promoteur de la prospective, nous ne sau-  rions désapprouver cette incursion dans le futur, Ce document indique avec une précision  suffisante les orientations fondamentales de l'action de l'Organisation, et permet de les  traduire en prévisions à court et moyen terme, Ainsi, nous pouvons, dès à présent, tous  ensemble, réfléchir avec assez de cecul sur les prévisions retenues et chercher des so-  lutions efficaces, notamment en ce qui concerne le développement,
10,40 Monsieur le Président, le moment est peut-être venu de faire une rétrospective  de l'itinéraire parcouru par l'Organisation depuis un quart de siècle environ, Nous pouvons  affirmer que, pendant ce quart de siècle, elle a mûri et atteint un haut niveau de dévelop-  pement, En cette période de bilans, nous pouvons déclarer que l'Unesco, grâce à des
23  hommes de volonté et de bonne volonté, n'a pas aéçu les légitimes espoirs qui étaient fon-  dés sur elle, Elle est le creuset où s'élabore patiemment mais sûrement la civilisation de  l'universel, qui est la convergence pan-humaine de toutes les valeurs de civilisation, Les  jeunes nations ont foi en l'Unesco, qui fait souffler un nouvel esprit de coopération inter-  nationale fondé sur l'égalité et la justice, Les pays du Tiers Monde placent en elle d'im-  menses espérances en ce qui concerne le destin culturel de l'humanité,
10,41 Au cours de la Deuxième Décennie du développement, l'Unesco doit mobiliser toutes  ses ressources matérielles et spirituelles pour répondre à l'attente de la jeunesse, à ses  angoisses et à son désarroi, à ses aspirations et à ses espoirs, Sinon, la jeunesse sera,  surtout dans le Tiers Monde, une charge révolutionnaire explosive, C'est là, peut-être,  un problème majeur qui exige un engagement politique, au sens le plus élevé du terme,  face à la dialectique des idéologies en présence, C'est 1à aussi l'objectif primordial que  nous devons atteindre si nous voulons organiser cette mutation permanente, et voir un  jour l'émergence, sur toute la planète, d'un homme nouveau, d'un homme réconcilié avec  lui-même et avec les autres, avant l'avènement de la grande aventure cosmique,  (The Chair was taken by Mr. Cookey)
11. The PRESIDENT:  I thank H, E. the leader of the delegation of Senegal. I now call on H.E, Mr. Barthes  Wilson, head of the delegation of Sierra Leone,
12.1 Mr, WILSON (Sierra Leone):  Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, distinguished delegates, may I first of all  state how happy I am to have the privilege of addressing this session of the General Con-  ference - Unesco's sixteenth, Permit me, Mr, President, to add my personal congratu-  lations and those of my delegation to those of other delegates and men of goodwill on your  election to the presidency of this Conference. We have already felt your guiding hand, and  your words of wisdom are already bearing fruit. We wish you a successful term of office.
12.2 Mr. President, I will be brief, for our family now numbers a hundred and twenty-  five and each member must have his say, Furthermore, I have been preceded on this ros-  trum by many distinguished personalities who have mentioned many of the points I think  are important and to which Unesco should pay particular attention,
12.3 The Executive Board, Mr. President, in document 16 C/2 paragraphs 13.4, 13.5,
13.6 and 14,3, gave certain guidelines with regard to our speeches, and I propose to dwell  very briefly on a few of the suggested topics.
12.4 Mr. President, may I extend through you to the Director-General and his siaff my  warm congratulations on the layout and production of the documents 16 C/3, 16 C/4 and
16 C/5. It is evident that a lot of hard thinking and a lot of hard work were put into these  documents, I particularly welcome document 16 C/4 which is the result of a resolution  adopted at the fifteenth session of the Generel Conference. Unesco has for many years  given both moral, financial and technical support ané advice to many Member States in the  setting up of units and offices of educational planning. Indeed Unesco organizes, some-  times with another Specialized Agency of the United Nations, training courses in educa-  tional and manpower planning, It is therefore fitting that Unesco itself should make it clear  that it is setting its own house in order. In this Second Development Decade it is essential -  especially for the developing countries - that money and both natural and human resources  are not wasted, and that at least a hundred cents worth is received for each dollar spent;  and this can only be possible with wise long-term planning, and continuous evaluation of  results and revision of sectors of the plan when necessary.
12.5 Mr, President, my delegation endorses broadly document 16 C/5, We know that  some amendments have been proposed with a view to making Unesco's work more effective,  We welcome and support such amendments,
12.6 International Education Year will soon draw to a close; but midnight on 31 December  should not end our efforts and douse our enthusiasm in the manner in which the Olympic  flame 1s put out at the end of the Olympic Games to be relit four years later, Rather, like  the athletes we should reappraise our failures and successes, and redouble our efforts in  the fields of education, science and culture. My country, Mr, President, used International  Education Year partly for stocktaking, among other projects, and also to boost technical  and vocational education, and to formulate plans for curriculum revision at all levels, We  were thus able to produce a White Paper on Educational Policy which: (i) gives priority to  the improvement of primary education; (ii) emphasizes the adequate staffing, equipping and  housing of secondary schools; (iii) will consolidate primary teachers! colleges and expand  and develop an advanced teachers! college; (iv) seeks to improve technical and agricultural  education; and (v) consolidates the university. We look forward to continued help and co-  operation from Unesco and other friendly countries in the fulfilment of our aims,
12.7 My delegation welcomes the proposal in Item 14, 3.1 of the Agenda: the proclamation  of 1972 as International Book Year. Mr, President, whilst we are trying to eradicate the  scourge of illiteracy in our countries, it is of vital importance that the new literates have  material relevant to their life and environment to read, or they will soon lapse into their  former state, which would be a tragic waste of investment, I would therefore appeal to  Unesco and other friendly governments and non-governmental agencies to help the devel-  oping countries in this great task, and I would also appeal to the great powers to use 1972  wisely and responsibly and not in any way as a means for furthering cultural imperialism.  We therefore welcome and suppor! the spirit of resolution 1.33 as contained in paragraph
305 of document 16 C/5.
12.8 We welcome and support programmes on life-long education, and youth and out-of-  school activities. But, Mr. President, an aspect of Unesco's programme gives me some  concern. There does not seem to be emphasis on one aspect of education which is of vital  importance to developing countries. Forgive me, Mr, President, if [appear to be partisan -  the part cannot be greater than the whole, yet it is parts that constitute the whole, and the  developing countries are a part of Unesco. Emphasis does not appear to have been placed  on the first level of education - the level on which we all must build. Mr. President, for  many children in developing countries education at the primary level is terminal, and it is  up to us to make sure that such education is meaningful, useful and of life-long value.
12.9 My delegation supports the view that meetings and special conferences should be re-  duced to the minimum number possible, in order to ensure better preparation, avoidance  of duplication, and proper follow-up. And whilst onthis question of conferences, Mr. Presi-  dent, I would suggest that due attention be given to the timing of conferences. When in  July 1968 the OAU/Unesco/CRESTA conference was in session, a request was made which  the Unesco Secretariat felt unable to entertain as it was too late to be included in the bud-  getary provisions for the consideration of the fifteenth session of the General Conference.  The hope was, however, held out that CASTA FRICA would be held in 1970. 1970 is drawing  to a close and it 18 now proposed in resolution 2.11, paragraph 496 of document 16 c/s  that CASTAFRICA should be held in 1973, My delegation, however, welcomes paragraph
591 of document 16 C/5 dealing with integrated science teaching, and appeals to Unesco to  give help and advice in this field, and to co-operate with other bodies working along these  lines especially at the primary level - organizations such as the Science Education Pro-  gramme for Africa (SEPA),
12,10 Lastly, Mr. President, may I state that we have not lost sight of the place of cul-  ture and its value for man. In a world where various gaps are widening - the haves and.  the have-nots, the hungry and the well-fed, food production and population growth - where  racial tension, and wars and rumours of wars haunt our dreams, man will find it extremely  difficult to advance and develop culturally. For consolidation and development we need  peace and a peaceful atmosphere. It is my view that cross-cultural activities will help to  improve man's understanding of himself and his fellow man, so that we can look forward  to the day when we can live in a peaceful world, a world in whichevery man is his brother's  keeper, for it is only in a peaceful world that Unesco's goals can best be achieved.
12,11 Mr, President, Mr, Director-General, distinguished delegates, thank you for li3-  tening to me so patiently and may I in closing wish our Organization a successful entry into  the Second Development Decade,
13, The PRESIDENT:
1 thank H, E. the leader of the delegation of Sierra Leone, and I now call on the last  speaker for this morning, H.E. Mr. Henrik Bjbrnsson, head of the delegation of Iceland.
14.1 Mr, BJORNSSON (Iceland):  Mr. Presiden’, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first, on be-  half of the Icelandic delegation, to congratulate you, Mr, President, on your unanimous  election to this high office. I wish you continued success in your important duties as leader  of this Conference. I also wish to take this opportunity to express to the Director-General  my delegation's appreciation of the presentation of the Programme and Budget for the years
1971-1972, as well as for the excellent preparation and arrangements for the Conference.
14.2 As was to be expected, the number of speakers in this general policy debate is high.  The debate is nearing its end and my intervention will therefore be brief. I shall confine  my remarks to a few general observations and then touch upon one or two topics of parti-  cular interesi to the Icelandic delegation - subjects which might, nevertheless, be of some  interest to the Organization itself as well, I shall first, Mr. President, turn to the basic  tasks and texts which require decisions to be taken by the General Conference at this session,
14,3 The Icelandic delegation is, generally speaking, in agreement with the activities and  the budget as stated in document 16 C/5. We particularly welcome the efforts of the Director-  General with regard to an ‘increased concentration of projects and activities, Such a con-  centration is in our view called for and my delegation hopes that further efforts in this di-  rection will be made in the future.
14,4 We are grateful to the Director-General for his preparation of a medium-term outline  plan as presented in document 16 C/4. Undoubtedly this document will be of great help to  Member States in the preparatory work for the next session of the General Conference,
14.5 As regards specific subjects dealt with in the draft programme and budget, I want  first of all to stress the great importance of clarifying the concept of life-long education as  mentioned in Section 1.12 of the education chapter. My delegation considers the develop-  ment and generalization of life-long integrated education as being of the highest priority  for Unesco and for all its Member States. Secondly, we note with great satisfaction that  Unesco is directing its activities on a broader scale than hitherto towards cultural policy.  The very successful intergovernmental conference in Venice last summer was an impor-  tant step forward in this sphere, In our view, it will be essential in the future to concen-  trate Unesco's activities in the field of culture more than has been the case in the past -  cultural policy should, therefore, have a high priority.
14.6 The Icelandic delegation would, Mr. President, also like to stress the importance of  co-ordinating the work of Unesco with regional organizations, the activities of which some-  times overlap the competence of Unesco's field, as well as with the work of the United  Nations themselves and their Specialized Agencies, ‘I'o illustrate this I might point out the  difficulties involved for a country like Iceland which is a member of both OECD and the  Council of Europe. These two organizations'are in some respects dealing with problems  similar to those dealt with by Unesco, especially in the field of education, For my country  it is extremely difficult to participate in related or similar work being carried out in all  three organizations at the same time, My delegation, therefore, wants to stress the need  for making further efforts to co-ordinate related activities of Unesco with OECD and the  Council of Europe in order to avoid unnecessary overlapping. As regards the co-ordination  of Unesco's autivities with other United Nations organizations, the Icelandic delegation  welcomes recent progress and hopes that this development will continue in order to ensure  the greatest possible success to the Second Development Decade.
14.7 I shall now, Mr President, turn to two subjects of particular interest to Iceland, It  will not come as a surprise if I stress here, Sir, the importance which Iceland - an island  in mid-ocean, largely dependent on marine resources for its livelihood - attaches to the  rapid expansion of oceanographic research, In this field the General Assembly of the  United Nations, at its twenty-third and twenty-fourth sessions, assigned a leading rôle to  Unesco and to its Intergovernmentel Oceanographic Commission. There is very little doubt  that the Long-Term and Expanded Programme of Oceanic Exploration and Research, of  which the International Decade of Ocean Exploration will be the first phase, constitutes a  new corner-stone for international co-operation. My delegation attaches the greatest im-  portance to the work and activities of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission  and to Unesco's Office of Oceanography. The Icelandic delegation will deal more thoroughly  with these matters in the appropriate commission of the Conference. I can merely men-  tion here that Iceland has already expressed interest in taking part in a number of projects  foreseen in the programme I have just referred to. One of the more immediate contribu-  tions of my country to scientific research in this field will be the organization of an inter-  national scientific conference on sea ice, to be convened in Reykjavik in May next year.
14.8 Another field, Mr. President, in which Iceland takes particular interest is that sec-  tor of earth sciences which relates to volcanology. Volcanic activities are, as a matter  of fact, probably more frequent in Iceland than in any other country in the world and the  varieties of the Icelandic volcanoes are greater than anywhere else. This is why Iceland  offers extremely interesting possibilities of study in this field, Plans are now under con-  sideration for the establishment in Iceland of a centre for volcanic research. Such an in-  stitution would undoubtedly be of scientific importance internationally and should therefore,  I think, be of considerable interest to Unesco,
14.9 These, Sir, were the few observations I wished to make on behalf of the Icelandic  delegation, In conclusion, I would like to express my delegation's thanks to Unesco for  the assistance Iceland has received since becoming a member of Unesco six years ago.  We in Iceland look forward to continued progress and evolution leading through international  co-operation to the realization of Unesco's aims as defined in the Constitution of the Or-  ganization, Thank you, Mr. President,
15.1 The PRESIDENT:
1thank H, E. the leader of the delegation of Iceland. This brings us to the end of the  debate this morning.
15.2 This afternoon we shall begin at 3 o'clock and we have the following countries on the  list: Jamaica, Saudi Arabia, Malawi, Mali, Syrian Arab Republic, Morocco, Bolivia and  Afghanistan.
15.3 The meeting is closed.  The meeting rose at 12,20 p.m.  La séance est levée À 12h,20,  Se levanta la sesidn a las 12, 20,  Bacenanne saKprBa@ëTca B 12 4,20 Muu.  sda! day Lido vey 14 Bled dada)! GA,