Thirty-ninth plenary meeting
14 November 1970 at 3.15 p. m.  President; Mr. DELL'ORO MAINI (Argentina)  Trente-neuvième séance plénière
14 novembre 1970, à 15 h, 15  Président : M, DELL'ORO MAINI (Argentine)  Trigésimonovena sesiôn plenaria
2 da is Ui LAY+ oI oe iss eds NN  (erin Il) ie le 59 54400/ andl vps  ANNOUNCEMENTS BY THE PRESIDENT (MESSAGE OF SYMPATHY TO THE  DELEGATION OF PAKISTAN, MESSAGE ADDRESSED TO THE FOOD AND AGRICULTURE  ORGANIZATION ON THE OCCASION OF ITS TWENTY FIFTH ANNIVERSARY)  COMMUNICATIONS DU PRESIDENT (MESSAGE DE SYMPATHIE À LA DELEGATION DU  PAKISTAN, MESSAGE ADRESSE A L'ORGANISATION DES NATIONS UNIES POUR  L'ALIMENTATION ET L'AGRICULTURE A L'OCCASION DE SON VINGT-CINQUIEME  ANNIVERSAIRE)  COMUNICACIONES DEL PRESIDENTE (MENSAJE DE SIMPATIA A LA DELEGACION DEL  PAQUISTAN, MENSAJE DIRIGIDO A LA ORGANIZACION DE LAS NACIONES UNIDAS  PARA LA AGRICULTURA Y LA ALIMENTACION CON MOTIVO DE SU 25° ANIVERSARIO)  COOBIILEHHS IIPE/CENATEJS (BBIPAXEHHE COYYBCTBHA MENELAIUXH  IIAKHCTAHA, MOCIIAHHE, _AHPECOBAHHOE HPOHOBOJNLCTBEHHOH H  CEJbCKOXO3HHCTBEHHOÏ OPTAHH3AI[HH OBBEJAHHEHHbIX HAIIHH B CBA3H C
25-OÙ T'ONOBIIHHOÏ)  (Leas ole Le ls puyôs s dues jase delay 26500
(1,1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  I declare the meeting open.
(1.2) Ladies and gentlemen, I must allude with daep regret to the catastrophe which has struck  East Pakistan. At noon today a tidal wave devastated a vast area in the deltaofthe Ganges. The  loss of human life is calculated in tens of thousands. Once again the unleashing ofnatural forces  has caused destruction, death and pain and has awakened in the hearts of all men a feeling of  solidarity which in this hour, on behalf of the Conference, I wish to convey to the delegation of  Pakistan.
(1.3) Secondly, I must note with satisfaction that this is the twenty- fifth anniversary of the found-  ing of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, On this occasion 1 have sent  the following telegram to His Excellency Mr, Herndn Santacruz, President of the FAO Conference  in Rome: "On this twenty-fifth anniversary of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United  Nations I send Your Excellency our heartiest congratulations and beg you to convey to the FAO  Conference the sincerest wishes of the Unesco General Conference for the success of your Or-  ganization's fruitful labours",  {1. 4) I now call upon Mr, Shahab, of the Delegation of Pakistan.
2, Mr. SHAHAB (Pakistan):  Mr. President, on behalf of the delegation of Pakistan, I express our gratitude to you  for your sympathy on the tragic catastrophe that has overtaken a large part of my country.  We do not have many details as yet bus the first reports of the devastations are very alarm-  ing Indeed, As always, we shall look to international goodwill for solace and succour in  this hour of need, Thank you,  CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORT OF THE PROGRAMME COMMISSION (continued) /  EXAMEN DU RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION DU PROGRAMME (suite) /  EXAMEN DEL INFORME DE LA COMISION DEL PROGRAMA (continuacién)/  PACCMOTPEHHE JOKJIAZKA KOMHCCHK TIO NPOrPAMME (npononxenHe)  pelo ind 44785 gd bod Glas
(3.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Shahab.
(3.2) In accordance with what was stated this morning, I am submitting to the consideration of  the plenary meeting item 11 of the Agenda, which refers to the Development Decade, Delegates  should have before them document 16 C/105, Part B, Annex - Recommendations, Addendum,
1 may point out that any problem of a purely verbal character concerning the various versions in  the working languages will be corrected in due course by the Secretariat,
(3.3) The Commission has recommended by a vote of 44 to nil, with 4 abstentions, that the draft  resolution which appears in paragraph 1, concerning item 11 of the Agenda, be approved,  (A vote was taken by a show of hands, }
(3.4) By a vote of 67 to nil, with 8 abstentions, the draft resolution which appears in paragraph 1  is approved,
(3.5) The Commission has recommended by a vote of 44 to nil, with one abstention, that the draft  resolution which appears in paragraph 2 be approved,
(3. 6) The draft resolution which appears in paragraph 2 is approved.
(3,7) The Commission has unanimously récomrnended that the draft resolution which appears  in paragraph 3 be approved,
(3.8) The draft resolution which appears in paragraph 3 is approved,
(3.9) The delegate of the United Kingdom, Mr, Mathieson, has asked for the floor,
4,1 Mr. MATHIESON (United Kingdom):  Thank you, Mr. President. There are two features of the draft resolution presented  in paragraph 4 with which my delegation finds some difficulty and on which we would like  to see a separate vote taken,
4.2 The first is paragraph 16 (f) on page 8 of the document before us, which invites the  Director-General, on the occasion of the next International Conference in Geneva, to organ-
39  ize a meeting of Ministers of Education "to which the heads of international fund-raising  agencies should be invited to consider ways and means of finding resources for education  in the Second Development Decade", As we made clear in the Commission, Mr, President,  my delegation does not think that such a meeting would be useful, We accept that some Min-  isters of Education may well be representing their countries at this inevitable conference,  but it would equally inevitably prolong its session and disrupt its work if something entirely  different from the subject matter which is destined to be placed before it were tobe brought  into its agenda, I take it that this would be a formal meeting and not just a meeting in the  corridors out of hours, and therefore inevitably it will have some financial implications,
4,3 Again, it is not at all clear to my delegation that the heads of international fund-raising  agencies would necessarily and readily turn up atsuch a conference. As we heard yesterday  in another context, there are certainformalities which we are supposed to go through before  we seek to involve, or before we decide by resolution to involve, representatives of other  parts of the United Nations system to participate in occasions which we invite the Director-  General to organize. Like Mr. Sobakin yesterday, I am not harping on this point, Iam  simply pointing to it, and I do not believe that any of these proceedings have been gone  through in this particular case, although I understand that the Deputy Director-General  did say that he had no certainty for example, that Mr. Hoffman would be present or even  Mr. Hoffman's representative. We are against this paragraph, we would like it to be  voted separately, and we will vote against it.
4.4 The second point which concerns my delggation, Mr, President, relates to paragraph
26 (d). This is to be found on page 11 of the document in front of us under the chapter head-  ing: IV - Natural Sciences. This paragraph invites “particularly the economically and tech.  nically advanced countries... to consider the formulation of targets for science and techno-  logical aid that may be included in the international strategy for the Second Development  Decade”. ! know that this formulation was the subject of a certain amount of confused de-  bate in the Commission, and the representative of the British delegation on that occasion  did try to improve it but he agrees with me that it is not improved quite as far as we would  like. The international strategy for the Second Development Decade had been settled, It  has been voted upon by the General Assembly of the United Nations and therefore there is  no prospect of anything further being included in it, In point of fact, the strategy stated  that countries which considered this useful were invited to consider formulating, as it were,  targets in terms of a percentage of GNP or terms of a percentage of their owndomestic ex-  penditure on research and development. We do not intend ourselves to do this and we made  it quite clear in the General Assembly that we do not, because we think it is a pretty futile  operation. We are not even certain, indeed, what base figure we should take to calculate  such a percentage, since the greater part of the application of science and technology to de-  velopment domestically in Britain is carried out in the private sector and outside the con-  trol of government. In any case the possibilities for applying science and technology to de-  velopment cannot be determined arithmetically. They depend essentially on the availability  of skilled and devoted people, who are scientists, who are technologists, who are interested  in the problems affecting developing countries, who are able, with the help of these develop-  ing countries, to identify and define these problems and tackle them. That is the limit of  capacity in the application of science and technology to development, not a financial limit.
4.5 I therefore consider, Mr. President, that one alternative might be to amend this  text in some appropriate way - for example, one might delete all the words "that may be  included in the international strategy for the Second Development Decade"; and simply  invite the countries concerned "... to consider the formulation of targets for science and  technological aid". I would not like that. My country will not so consider, but there may  be others who will. On the other hand, if this particular sub-paragraph 26 (d) on which  equally I would ask for ‘a separate vote, stands as it presently does, I will also vote  against that sub-paragraph, Thank you, Mr, President,
(5.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you Mr, Mathieson, The delegate of the United Kingdom has raisedaquestion: whether  to keep sub-paragraph (d) of paragraph 26 of the draft resolution which appears in paragraph 4  of Part B of document 16 C/105 (Annex - Recommendation, Addendum), or to change it, The  meeting will be asked to vote on the United Kingdom's amendment in due course,
(5. 2) 1 now call upon the Permanent Delegate of Colombia, His Excellency Mr, Betancur Mejfa,
(6) Mr. BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President, fellow delegates: 1 wish to refer briefly to what some delegations so elo-  quently said when the delegate of the United Kingdom made the same remarks in the Programme  Commission. First of all, those who submitted the draft resolution concerning the Second Dec-  ade thought it would be opportune to take advantage of the forthcoming International Conference  on Education in Geneva to carry out a study in consultation with those responsible for the financ-  ing of the competent international bodies. We cannot overlook the fact that education is one of  the sectors which most requires international financial resources, We have repeatedly pointed  out that education forms the basis of the economic, social and cultural development of all our  countries, and that one of the essential ways of ensuring the success of the Second Development  Decade is precisely to endow that sector with sufficientnational and international resources, The  Commission stressed the desirability of having those responsible for international financing  bodies meet with those responsible for education in order to determine the best way of obtaining  greater resources for education and of making sure that funds available at present as well as in  future are properly invested. With regard to the last remark by the delegate of the United King-  dom, there was no doubt either about the position of the countries which supported whathad been  proposed concerning that contribution within the framework of the strategy for the scientific and  technical development of our countries, Thank you very much,
(7.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank Mv, Betancur Mejfa.
(7.2) 1now call upon Mr. Fabini, the delegate of Uruguay.
(8) Mr. FABINI (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr, President, 1 shall refer briefly to the Second Development Decade in which  we have placed somuchhope. What is the aim of this Second Decade? The Director-General  expresses it very well in document 16 C/4 when he says that development should be integral and  balanced and should, if possible constitute an expansion of the moral, spiritual and material as-  pects of the human being. It should also guarantee his social dignity, Weknow that education is  the principal weapon in the strategy to defeat underdevelopment. I should like to stress particu-  larly that most neglected sector, agricultural education, which, as the Director-General him-  self states in document 16 C/4, must be Infused with new life if it is to be brought out of its iso-  lation and become a part of the great movement in favour of the regeneration of education as a  whole. We are grateful to the General Conference for having approved the inculsion of agricul-  tural education in chapter 1, as an integral part of education, One of the goals of the Second  Decade should be the modernization of rural life, It should seek to impart momentum to this  vast and most underprivileged sector, whose backwardness is a cause of poverty, disease and  ignorance, as well as serious social difficulties, Thank you very much, Mr. President,
(9.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr, Fabini,
(9.2) I call upon His Excellency Mr. Marinello, head of the delegation of Cuba,
(10) Mr, MARINELLO (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr, President and fellow delegates: the proposals of the United Kingdom delegate are now  under consideration, but I have just heard the interesting remarks made by the delegate of Uru-  guay and I believe, for more than one reason, that we should repeat, with the brevity the occa-  sion imposes, our disagreement in principle with the text of the resolution on the Second Devel-  opment Decade, We feel that we are fulfilling a duty in expressing our delegation's opinion -  which is, of course, the view of the Revolutionary Government of Cuba - in stating that the draft  resolution concerning the Second Development Decade does not basically eliminate the weaknesses  which were largely responsible for the failure of the First Development Decade. In our view,  the underdeveloped countries and principally those of Latin America, if they are really going to  achieve that development which is of concern to Unesco, primarily stand in need of economic  and social development, In other words, the main task must be carriedout by the peoples them-  selves if they are to obtain their freedom, The text that has been approved by the Programme  Commission does not satisfy thoge essential requirements, Of course this does not mean that  Unesco's efforts to promote the Second Decade are in vain, We mean that it is indispensable  for the peoples of the Third World, and in particular those of Latin America, to achieve first of  all the development. of their economic and social forces - i, e. their national liberation - but that  Unesco in its sphere of competence can contribute to making the Second Decade effective and  fruitful by calling attention to its own specific problems and by pointing out that it is first of all  necessary for our countries to attain economic independence and afterwards encourage the devel-  opment of the human mind towards what are now unforeseeable goals.
(11.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank Mr, Marinello for his intervention,
(11, 2) The draft resolution submitted to the Conference for consideration consists of 35 para-  graphs, A separate vote has been requested on sub-paragraphs (g) and (f) of paragraph 16. The  United Kingdom has also submitted an amendment to paragraph 26 (d), 1 shall therefore put to a  vote all the paragraphs up to paragraph 16 (f}. We shall then vote on that paragraph and subse-  quently on the following ones until we come to the paragraph which is the subject of the amend-  ment, namely paragraph 26 (d), after which we shall vote on the remaining paragraphs down to
35, If there are no comments, J shall now close the discussion,
(11. 3) If there is no objection, I shall consider that paragraphs 1 to 16 (e) of the draft resolution  which appears in paragraph 4 of the document 16 C/105, Part B, Annex - Recommendations,  Addendum, have been approved,
(11. 4) Paragraphs 1 to 16 (e) of the draft resolution which appears in paragraph 4 are approved,
(11, 5) We shall now vote on paragraph 16 (f) of the draft resolution,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands. )
(11.6) By 51 votes to 5, with 29 abstentions, paragraph 16 (f) is approved,
(11.7) We shall now vote on paragraph 16, sub-paragraphs (g) and (h).
(11. 8) Sub-paragraphs (g) and (h) of paragraph 16 are approved,
(11,9) We shall now vote on paragraphs 17 to 25,
(11.10) Paragraphs 17 to 25 are approved,
(11.11) We shall now vote on sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of paragraph 26.
(11,12) Sub-paragraphs {a}, (b) and (c) of paragraph 26 are approved,
(11,13) We now come to sub-paragraph (d)}. We shall vote on the amendment proposed by the  United Kingdom, whereby the last two lines would be deleted,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands. )
(11.14) By 14 votes to 47, with 23 abstentions, the amendment is rejected,
(11.15) We shall now vote on sub-paragraph (d) as it was proposed by the Commission,  {The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
(11.16) By 16 votes to 2, with 21 abstentions, sub-paragraph {d) is approved,
(11.17) We shall now vote on paragraphs 27 to 35,
(11, 18) Paragraphs 27 to 35 are approved,  {11, 19) We shall now vote on the entire draft resolution which appears in paragraph 4.  {The vote was taken by a show of hands. )
(11.20) By 83 votes to nil, with 9 abstentions, the draft resolution which appears in paragraph4  is approved.
(11. 21) The Commission has unanimously recommended that the General Conference approve  the draft resolution which appears in paragraph 5.
(11.22) The draft resolution which appears in paragraph 5 is approved.
(11, 23) We must now break the deadlock which occurred this morning in the voting on sub-  paragraph (c) of draft resolution 3, 41 which appears in document 16 C/105, Part C,3, Annex -  Recommendations, ’
(11. 24) The Secretary will read out the text of sub-paragraph (c).
(12) Mr, JIMENEZ (Secretary of the General Conference} (Translation from the Spanish}:  Document 16 C/105, Part C,3, Annex - Recommendations; resolution 3, 41 (c) reads as  follows:  {c) by making due preparations, if deemed necessary, after consultation with the States  Parties to the Convention, for a review of the means to clarify the scope of the Conven-  tion for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict (1954), and  to enhance its efficacy. -  ‘ 1261
(13.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  A separate vote has been requested on this sub-paragraph,  {13.2) By 32 votes to 32, with 26 abstentions, sub-paragraph (c) is rejected,
(13. 3) I wish to have it clearly understood by the delegates that Mr, Tolba, delegate of the United  Arab Republic, requested a separate vote on this sub-paragraph, We have voted twice and both  times there has been a deadlock; consequently, sub-paragraph (c) cannot be approved,
(13, 4) I call upon Mr, Tolba, delegate of the United Arab Republic.  (dame) dy at yy ppendl) apte JUS giha, 553$ AS / andl — gg
6 ot Hl sas  dia he Madde Liggas evel Lily 6 (2) add dbl ple Las 5 RÉ of  wissl V5 6 (x) kdl as I coat) ii S à Las eel ET EOLA PRE 150  co Vy-$25 os pybgedl Via Jamcogadl 130) pe of dla of
(14.) Mr. TOLBA (United Arab Republic) (Translation from the Arabic)  Mr. President, I did not seek a vote on the deletion of sub-paragraph (c), I simply asked  that this sub-paragraph should be voted on separately, and said that I would vote against it.  Now that there has been a vote against the sub-paragraph in question, I cannot see any justifi-  cation for a further vote on this subject.
(15.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  The voting has been as follows: there was a proposal by Mr, Tolba, to vote separatelyon  sub-paragraph (c). It was therefore put to a vote but since the voting has resulted in a tie on
39  both occacions, sub-paragraph (c) cannot be retained. My proposal was clear and I believe tlic  delegates voted on the basis of it, I therefore want it clearly understood - and I ask that the in-  terpretation be unequivocal - that since the voting resulted in a tie, sub-paragraph (¢) is rejected.
(15,2) We shall now vote on the whole of Section 3, 41, without sub-paragraph (c).  (The vote was taken by a show of hands, )
(15. 3) By 84 votes to nil, with one abstention, draft resolution 3, 41 is approved,
(15.4) With this item we conclude consideration of the Report of the Programme Commission,  which has been approved in its entirety in plenary session.
(15.5) I now call upon Dr, Sarrûf.  po Lo dl iid purty (Led lI iy geen dl) Gg ye ol ad 593$ AN / Ar oy)  Ce saa.  rae ody pelo dl ind pis paid eb, Gul LSE oF Yb J nd  oi BG ling pelo) dan pis endl 5 6 bpd BIL  RETRY J SUSI LAS, 4 SN Via ais ul JY SS SCT J J SPSS  Je LOI pL->U shan! YFULE CERNE JU SN 1e 6 (SI psf of wl vf - lor  vsséy Lisa Sd pas 1) pany 6 slac¥i Jaadl 5455 Jd oe 41 ge UI  FETTER WY Liyesse Joly 0e JUVS | I ep) 0j 55 PSS ASS 6 Less NOE |  copay las, près ob Les Vas of 6 Lil dant lope ais 6 TI  créé Vishiol geli,y Jess LOUE al lid SUsl + py 6 smd] Lease I  Lid ge md] asaadl Vin 5 AncsnJI sa Joadl iol jl go gimmie! 6 Li  ear 6 dpi aphid) JI Gy Dyn of 6555 Lee s pladl aed! hie dpe,  NEN U K +5 VP I It re  sla oud 5555 liad RAI si ge peel of 6 Lol 1 gma 5 — yt  ashe aus 0 lal Gis 6 LAIT Lele of else ind 3 1,581 cd  vba ls el lily LL island) pall Load podadl yd all  indi proms eel sl presses prt sal 5 6 Loved doy hdl ele go pad Jo JI  (YT UVR SPY A TRF FY BC) I FF {EEUU | Ir iy SAI | TS BRP IY IT RS | JCA WIT Dp  JEN | [RY BIE | 5e FX UK IS SPE JURE sf WET WH SUR ool | Rv pW | ps Pa S WI)  plie Uy Bol Ledinay 6 pd pes Jl lo Li gay paldiis pl el ll els yin  lar sda cl lid elegy enh of LU 6 lel iol, ilbelesla, any  kygno LÉ 5558 JUNK. 4 | Jay SPRL J INEUN [PY We | Epi JF] SERN [NS Super ly |  Jol Il aps sLas¥l Joadl go Gels pened] ell pid 6 ASS hone Va — 4100  vis idl Lob, Lan 4 wd pas oll canddl 44 503 gil Jeadl 1 In pds 6 » Lad  dndac JU oY oly JAI ob XV A Sam old] ge dts pein) Gre ol Le ily Juda  Lope 6 Less pli 6 dl sige va SES ¢ La LE 955 Gaull dun dl Ol 203, LA  Cll ina Il pis Le ape SIA JI gyri 6 wlll pl A of NAS  ld any Vins oy Dy AIS Ling dl Goan le Lin Wl oi SSI  inst pra aude | pail y i pelo, led Il DLL ayo dhe Les samy,  a a
39  ne pylis lis glasl oo Guimpiad) 6 peed apd] 6 etl ae 6 SA — 1  doy ob ll of pbhaed Vela 5e draddl Loge Jl span Ld ges oy  + Ui is 442 5a 6 Ls als  oo Hl sare | Say
(16.1) Mr. SARRUF (Lebanon) (Translation from the Arabic)  Mr. President, allow me first to recall that I prefaced my presentation of the Programme  Commission's report with a brief statement in Arabic, and then went on to deal with the details  of the report itself in English.
(16.2) Permit me now to conclude my presentation of the report with a further statement in  Arabic,
(16.3) First, I wish to say to you, Sir, how sensible I am of the profound respect in which you  are held by the delegations of the various Member States, and how greatly I appreciate the wis-  dom, the detailed grasp of the affairs and structure of Unesco and the skill which have enabled  you, during the discussion of the Programme Commission's report at this late stage of the  General Conference, to guide us clearly, fairly andimpartially to the desired objective, namely,  the adoption of the resolutions necessary in order that the Organization's programme for the  coming biennium - a programme reflecting the will of the Member States assembled at this  distinguished Conference - could be embodied in an offical document whose provisions the  Director-General and his staff, with their wide experience and detailed knowledge, can proceed  to implement.
(16.4) Secondly, I should like to pay tribute to the representatives of the delegations of Mem-  ber States who participated in the work of the Programme Commission, both at its plenary  meetings and in the Sub-Commissions established for education, for natural sciences, for  soclal sciences, human sciences and culture, and for communication. The undivided atten-  tion they devoted to the subjects under discussion; the wide knowledge and detailed experience  they brought to bear on the various draft resolutions; the full part they played in the discus-  sions, with opinions at times diverging, at times converging on a happy solution of sorae point  at issue - all this made it possible for them to arrive at the draft resolutions which you, Sir,  have been good enough to put before the General Conference. Most of these draft resolutions  were adopted unanimously after long - and at times vehement - discussions; and all of them,  with a very few exceptions, were approved by the Conference, either unanimously or by a large  majority, without any difficulty.
(16.5) There is nothing surprising in this, for the resolutions of the Conference begin and end  with the various Member States. The work of the Commission of which I had the honour to be  Chairman and of Îts various Sub-Commissions affords abundant proof of the fact that, when a  nimber of people united by devotion to duty and loyalty to the common interest and to Unesco's  long-term goals are gathered together and guided by this spirit, they will sooner or later reach  agreementon what best serves the common interest, which, in our frame of reference here, is  based on the promotion of education, science, culture and communication. Besides being of  the greatest value in itself, this asset becomes twice as precious when taken in conjunction  with the merits of the programme that was in fact agreed on.
(16.6) Allow me therefore, Mr. President, to conclude by expressing my sincere and heart-  felt thanks to all those I have mentioned for their contribution - which I cannot praise too  highly - to our joint endeavours. Thank you.
(17) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  I have listened with great satisfaction to the remarks with which Dr. Sarrûf, Chairman of  the Programme Commission, has brought this discussion to a conclusion, and I thank him for  those addressed to me, In turn, I think I am speaking for the Conference and doing no more than  echo its congratulations, when I thank him for all he has done at the head of the Commission,  and at the same time thank the Chairmen of the four Sub-Commissions, Messrs. Arianayagam  (Malaysia), Sape (Ghana), Szezepanski (Poland) andOkkenhaug (Norway), their Happorteurs, and  His Excellency Mr, Wagner de Reyna, Chairman of the Resolutions Committee, I must not fail  to mention in passing the concentration and devotion with which the members of the Programme  Commission have worked, both morning and afternoon, and on many occasions at night, That is  why ! cannot understand the assertion that the meetings of our most important organslast too  long. This plenary meeting has been extremely active in drawing upon their labours, and I think  that what I say, speaking in a purely personal capacity, has some bearing upon the future, in so  far as it will be necessary to adopt working methods affecting the way in which the plenary meet-  ing tackles its decisions.  Item 59 of the Agenda: PLACE AND ORGANIZATION OF THE SEVENTEENTH SESSION  OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  Point 59 de l'ordre du jour: LIEU ET ORGANISATION DE LA DIX-SEPTIEME SESSION  Punto 59 del Orden del Dfa: LUGAR DE CELEBRACION Y ORGANIZACION DE LA 17a.  REUNION    Ilyuxr 59 nopecrkx ana: MECTO NPOBEJEHHUA H OPTAHHS3AIHS CEMHAJILIATOM  CECCHH
(18,1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  We shall now examine itern 59: Place and organization of the seventeenth session of the  General Conference (document 16 C/66), A draft resolution will be found in paragraph 4,
(18, 2) I call upon Mr, Grohman, Vice-Chairman of the Executive Board, who will introduce the  draft,
19,1 M, GROHMAN (Tchécoslovaquie), vice-président du Conseil exécutif, -  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, le Conseil exécutif, lors  de la séance qu'il a tenue le mardi 10 novembre, a examiné la question de la date d'ouver-  ture de la prochaine session de la Conférence générale à la lumière de l'expérience et des  conclusions qu'on peut déjà dégager de la présente session,
19,2 Il a pris connaissance avec satisfaction de la proposition qui, au paragraphe 4 du  projet de résolution contenu dans le document 16 C/109, tend à fixer au mardi 17 octobre
1972 la date d'ouverture de la dix-septième session de la Conférence générale, Comme les  auteurs de cette proposition et comme la Commission du programme qui l'a approuvée ré-
39  cemment, le Conseil exécutif estime en effet qu'il est souhaitable de revenir a la pratique  antérieure, qui consistait à fixer à un mardi la date d'ouverture d'une session de la Confé-  rence générale, afin, notamment, de laisser un jour ouvrable d'intervalle entre le moment  où le Conseil exécutif achève ses travaux de préparation de la session et le moment oùcelle-  ci commence. Le Conseil exécutif a donc estimé que la date du 17 octobre 1972 était parfai-  tement adéquate, et c'est à l'unanimité qu'il vous la recommande.
(20.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr, Vice-Chairman of the Executive Board, I shall now put the draft resolution  in paragraph 4 of document 16 C/66 to the vote,
(20, 2) The draft resolution is adopted.  CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTIONS ON THE CONCLUSIONS OF THE GENERAL  POLICY DEBATE  EXAMEN DES PROJETS DE RESOLUTION SUR LES CONCLUSIONS DU DEBAT DE  POLITIQUE GENERALE  EXAMEN DE LOS PROYECTOS DE RESOLUCION SOBRE LAS CONCLUSIONES DEL  DEBATE GENERAL  PACCMOTPEHHE IIPOEKTOB PE3OJIOLHH O BLIBOJAX JUCKYCCHH MMO BONPOCY  OBCYXIEHUA OBILEH IMOJHTHKH  eld] ilot cLisli Led) agatha Jl idl elegy de ob hd
(21, 1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  The next item concerns the draft resolutions on the conclusions of the general policy debate,  I draw the attention of delegates to the fact that these drafts refer to items 7, 8 and 12 of the  Agenda, The documents are the following: the draft resolution proposed by the General Com-  mittee of the General Conference (16 C/106), in connexion with which there fs an amendment
(16 C/DR/PLEN/22) submitted by France and Hungary; the draft resolutions submitted by the  Programme Commission (16 C/109) andthe draft resolution submitted by Spain (16 DR/PLEN/13).  All these documents are concerned with the conclusions of the general policy debate, but must be  examined separately and at different levels,
(21.2) The first concerns the draft resolution proposed by the General Committee on the con-  clusions of the general policy debate regarding the content of the Introduction to 16 C/4, a docu-  ment of exceptional importance since, at the present stage of Unesco's development, it signifies  a decisive orientation, in accoi'dance with the principles set forth in this draft resolution, for  the Organization's long-term activities, The General Committee, in co-ordinating its proposals,  has taken into account the reports of the Assistant Rapporteur for each of the two Commissions  who met, by decision of the Committee, with myself as Chairman, For the purpose of my task,  I convened the two Rapporteurs at the same time as the Chairmen of their respective Commis-  sions, the Secretary of the Conference and the Secretary of the Executive Board. The Committee  approved the draft, which it submits to you for your consideration.
(21. 3) I now call upon Mr. Maillard, who will present the draft amendment proposed by France  and Hungary.
22,1 M, MAILLARD (France), -  Mesdames et Messieurs, en proposant l'amendement que vous avez sous les yeux
(16 C/DR/PLEN/22), la délégation française n'a pas eu pour intention de suggérer une mo-  dification fondamentale au texte qui vous est proposé, ni - et j'insiste particulièrement sur  ce point - de remettre en cause les priorités actuelles, notamment celles qui sont confé-  rées à l'éducation, Elle a, bien plutôt, voulu rester fidèle a l'esprit du débat qui a eu lieu  à la Sous-Commission de la culture et aux conclusions qu'en ont souvent dégagées les ora-  teurs, Ceux-ci, pour la plupart, ont estimé qu'un effort supplémentaire devait être accom-  pli dans les années à venir, non pas, certes, je le répète, pour donner une priorité à la  culture, mais pour lui assurer une place plus importante dans nos programmes et dans nos  soucis, Cette préoccupation tient très à coeur à ma délégation, et la Conférence de Venise  nous semble en avoir mis pleinement en lumière la nécessité.
22,2 Il convient donc que cette idée soit soulignée et précisée dans un texte qui fait en  quelque sorte le bilan de nos travaux et qui en dessinc les orientations futures, J'ajoute  qu'elle a été expressément formulée, avant même la Conférence de Venise, dans le docu-  ment 16 C/4, où figurent à cet égard des indications auxquelles nous avons pleinement sous -  crit, Enfin, le texte que nous soumettons nous paraît se rapprocher, plus que le texte actuel,  du texte primitivement élaboré par le groupe de travail qui a oeuvré sous la direction éclai-  rée de notre président, M, Dell'Oro Maini, Nous espérons vivement qu'il pourra être ap-  prouvé par la majorité, sinon par l'unanimité des délégations présentes, car il nous paraît  ezprimer le voeu profond de la Conférence générale, et nous espérons aussi que l'honorable  délégué de la Roumanie, qui est à l'origine de la version amendée actuelle, acceptera, avec  son esprit habituel de compréhension et de conciliation, de s'y rallier sans trop de réticence,
22,3 Je voudrais en venir maintenant au projet de résolution qui nous est soumis soue la  cote 16 C/106 pour exprimer - n'ayant pas l'intention de reprendre ensuite la parole sur  ce point - les quelques réflexions qu'il nous suggère, Ce projet de résolution nous paraît  constituer, à bien des égards, un document exemplaire et d'excellente qualité, et je suis  heureux de pouvoir dire que nous approuvons la manière dont sont traités les différents  sujets qui y sont abordés, Rechercher les éléments à partir desquels une résolution con-  cernant les problèmes de politique générale pourrait être élaborée n'était pas une tâche  facile et notre délégation tient à remercier le président Dell'Oro Maini d'avoir bien voulu  accepter de mettre sa science et sa sagesse au service de cette cause qui, à notre avis,  marque une nouvelle étape dans le devenir de notre Organisation,
22,4 Sur un point, toutefois, ma délégation a des réserves à formuler : il s'agit de l'im-
39  portant problème évoqué aux paragraphes 11 et 12 du projet : celui de la détermination du  taux de croissance réel durant les années à venir, Si la délégation française est favorable  au principe de la programmation à moyer terme, qu'elle estime nécessaire pour assurer  la continuité des projets et une plus grande cohérence des plans de travail de l'Organisa-  tion, elle considère en revanche qu'il ne convient pas de fixer, même à titre indicatif, des  chiffres précis pour la croissance des activités de l'Organisation au-delà des deux années  a venir, Un taux de croissance aussi nettament fixé ne reposerait pas sur des réalités con-  crètes, Au demeurant, il ne nous éclairerait pas sur ce que serait le pourcentage global  d'augmentation du budget, ce pourcentage global étant, quant à lui, conditionné par l’ac-  croissement des salaires et par celui du coût de la vie, donc par des éléments qu'il est  impossible de chiffrer avec quelque exactitude pour les six prochaines années,
22,5 En outre, nous ne pouvons pas admettre que les notions de budget et de plan soient in-  dissociables l'une de l'autre ; si elles l'élaient, nous serions en effet conduits, après avoir  examiné dans son ensemble le cycle de planification, à prendre d'avance des engagements  quant aux dépenses que son exécution ultérieure devrait comporter, C'est d'ailleurs 1a l'une  des raisons qui nous ont amenés, au sein de la Commission du programme, à faire d'ex-  presses réserves sur la notion de fusion des documents C/4 et C/5, telle qu'elle avait été  envisagée,
22,6 Il est précisé, il est vrai, que le taux de croissance ne serait fixé qu'à titre indica-  tif. Mais, dans ces conditions, nous ne voyons guère l'intérêt qu'il y aurait à demander à  la Conférencè générale de se prononcer sur un chiffre, ce qui risquerait peut-être d'empê-  cher qu'un consensus général ne s'établisse à propos du programme envisagé.
22,7 Nous souhaitons, Monsieur le Président, que l'Unesco s'appuie, pour l'élaboration  et la mise en oeuvre de son programme à long terme, sur les recommandations du Comité  des quatorze, recommandations que l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies a approuvées  il y a quatre ans et que notre Organisation s'est engagée à appliquer, Or, dans ces recom-  mandations, il n'est nulle part fait mention de la nécessité de déterminer un taux de croissance,
22,8 La résolution qui nous est soumise est de nature à orienter l'Unesco pendant plusieurs  années. En raison même de sa portée, il serait hautement souhaitable qu'elle puisse être  adoptée à l'unanimité par notre assemblée ; et nous serions prêts, pour notre part, àl'ap-  prouver sans la moindre réserve si les paragraphes 11 et 12 n'y figuraient pas,
(23.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr, Maillard,
(23.2) I call upon His Excellency Mr. Lipatti, head of the delegation of Romania,
24,1 M, LIPATTI (Roumanie), -  Monsieur le Président, deux mots sur le projet de résolution contenu dans le document
24,2 Comme j'ai eu l'occasion de le dire au Bureau de la Conférence générale, ma déléga-  tion est satisfaite de ce projet de résolution et je tiens, Monsieur le Président, à vous fé-  liciter et à féliciter tous ses auteurs pour la clarté et l'esprit de synthèse qui s'y fait jour.
24,3 D'autre part, ma délégation appuie sans réserve l'amendement proposé par les délé-  gations de la France et de la Hongrie ; le nouveau libellé suggéré pour le paragraphe 9 nous  semble en effet infiniment meilleur que le libellé actuel et nous voterons sans hésiter en  faveur de son adoption,
(25.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Lipatti,
(25. 2) I call upon His Excellency Mr, El Fasi, head of the delegation of Morocco.
6 pd Hl sa.  gas—éJ sans qe © Les dis ay pis ddl riedt Jae! sasl of af  Le il Llaidl ge oa LILI gueadl of AUSS 6 JI Lal oy 5a SAIT YU all  PR PE pe y, + Lyaïl LA bas of con st, ASI REPS FOU gi Ge AS die Lil;  oF 610$ eal Ld has Lil s 6 dif Aes Ne JV bel 131 SN Od  tl EN YANN le MAILS 5 6 ais 153 58 paendl ag dan LS SSLAOIN 0  » PYF ik É, URI lin es Je SEE ER Er pg ER  ol- Si 6 3,1 5Y0 yd OE N E il E16. 90 | J ¥ [WF S| EPR OU AS i | JE IS RP  plat ple Jou AUS OS 6 wales of Vlad Gé a JE ol ail Laser dans of ig  Cilia gaaed eh Tay SSII
(26.1) Mr. EL-FASI (Morocco) (Translation from the Arabic)  Mr. President, while in favour of the draft resolution now before us, I wish to support the  proposed amendment submitted by France. For some six years we have constantly stated  that culture is among the things to which importance mustbe accorded. We donot say "priority",  because if priority were accorded to everything it would cease to be priority, but we say that  it must be accorded adequate importance, since the rôle of culture, as everyone recognizes,  is an enormous one and the preservation of the world's cultural heritage is also essential.  Special attention must therefore be paid to this sector.
(26.2) I asked for the floor this morning in connexion with the Director-General's proposal  but the debate was closed. I should like to say that I am astonished by all those people who  ask for importance to be accorded to culture and are then unwilling that culture should be given  the position it deserves in the administration. We all ought to have supported the Director-  General's proposal instead of opposing it, as a token of the importance that is beginning to be  attached to culture. Thank you, Mr. President.
(27.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. El Fasi,
(27.2) I call upon Mr, Mathieson, delegate of the United Kingdom.
28.1 Mr. MATHIESON (United Kingdom): .-  Thank you, Mr. President, I shall not detain you long. During the course of this
39  Conference and more particularly during our discussions yesterday on the Intergovern-  mental Oceanographic Commission, I was reminded of a notice which was very promin-  ently displayed in the Café Flore and which must be well known, at least to our Director-  General. 1 will quote it to the best of my recollection in Scottish French: “en cas  d'affluence certain clients sont priés de ne pas occuper les tables pendant plusieurs  heures avec la même consommation. In speaking on document 16 C/106 I shall there-  fore drink up and go out.
28,2 I would like first to welcome the elegant reformulation in document 16 C/DR/PLEN/22  of paragraph 9 of the document and I support this.
28.3 Speaking further on document 16 C/106 I shall confine my ren arks to one point only,  and this is a point to which reference has also been made by the distinguished represen-  tative of France. In general I find the draft acceptable but it presents difficulties to me  with regard to paragraph 12 concerning the establishment of a percentage figure, to be  endorsed by the General Conference, as an indicator of the extent of the real growth in  programme activities for which the Director-General should make provision in his medium-  term plan. When speaking in the general policy debate on 14 October, the British Minis-  ter of Overseas Development, Mr. Richard Wood, after offering some reflections on the  financial problems of the United Nations system, and after indicating his readiness to  accept the total proposed for the budget for the coming biennium, said that we shouldhave  to reserve our position with the utmost care on the indicative figure for programme ex-  pansion in subsequent biennia on which, as he remarked, the Director-General legitima-  tely seeks guidance from this Conference. In saying this he meant that we accepted the  need indicated in paragraph 11 of the draft resolution before us that some growth rate  should be taken as a working hypothesis. This, of course, might well be nil - zero.
28.4 In paragraph 10 of the draft before us considerable emphasis is placed on the need  for Unesco to seek constant renovation of its programme. This means the redirection  of resources from existing purposes to new purposes. These new purposes are an ex-  tension of the Organization's work into new fields and this process can properly in itself  be described as a growth in activity. Growth is not simply a matter of volume. It is  essentially an extension of influence and impact into fresh and relevant fields of action.  If this objective were resolutely pursued, and if, for example, we do not continuously  regard resources put at the disposal of new institutions by Unesco to stimulate their  creation as being permanent subventions for which the Organization is responsible, we  can still achieve a transfer to growth areas of resources of up to 10 per cent per bien-  nium without increasing the totality of the budget beyond what is involved through infla-  tionary pressures by the recosting of a given volume of action. It follows from this  that if the Director-General were effectively to pursue this approach, he could modernize  and extend the impact of the programme whilst still sustaining its essential continuity  without any need to have recourse to what in any event must be an arbitrary guideline for  overall expansion,
28.5 I take it, Mr, President, that the second half of the draft paragraph 12 before us is  meant to concede that there will be some element of renovation in future programmes but  also that the Director-General is nevertheless expected to seek to find additional purposes  and projects to the extent of a further 7 per cent in financial terms over and above the re-  costed budget of the preceding biennium. We think that 7 per cent in such a context is an  excessive figure and we believe that the switching of resources should take place not only  away from those activities which, in the words of the draft, have failed to produce the  results expected, but even more from those activities which have successfully achieved  the results expected and can then be left to proceed on their own momentum. What must  concern us as contributing governments, is not the individual components of the budget but  the total of the budget; and until we can gauge what the inevitable bill will be for such on-  going activities as will survive from the current programme on a recosted basis, we can-  not judge to what further extent, if any, we would be prepared to finance any total budget  for any future biennium.
28.6 If this paragraph is maintained in the draft, Mr, President, we must therefore ab-  stain on it. We would abstain not because we do not know our own minds, but because we  cannot in current circumstances select a figure which we could subsequently undertake to  honour in relation to the total budgets of future biennia.
28.7 For our part we would be happy to see the Director-General himself select a figure  for planning purposes which would not take him beyond a reasonable estimate of what the  Committee of 14 referred to by the distinguished delegate of France, described in para-  graph 73 (d) (v) of its Report as, I quote, "prospective resources" for the bienna ahead.  On this basis the Director-General would produce a programme of future activities which  could then be implemented in each successive biennium to the extent for which prospective  resources could then be counted upon to be available. This will involve the Director-  General in selecting from the activities endorsed by the General Conference in a C/4 docu-  ment only those priority activities for which he has reasonable assurance that resources  would be provided to carry out the proposals of a C/5 document. This will be dining à la  carte and not prix fixe. I can assure him that at the appropriate time we will stand  ready to assist him in judging these priorities.
28.8 Therefore, Mr, President, if as proposed by the distinguished delegate of France,  and supported by the distinguished delegate of Morocco, these two paragraphs - and I am  not particularly complaining myself about paragraph 11 - were dropped from the draft,  that is fine by me. If, however, paragraph 12 is maintained in its present form, or in-  deed in any form which has a precise figure in it, I would like to have a separate vote on  that paragraph, on which I will abstain. In any event thereafter I will vote for the resolu-  tion as a whole. Thank you.
(29.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Mathieson,
(29.2) I call upon Mr, Inglés, head of the delegation of the Philippines.
30.1 Mr. INGLES (Philippines):  Thank you, Mr. President. In view of the position taken by the Philippine delegation  during the general debate, we would like, Mr. President, to request a separate vote on  paragraphs 9 and 12 of draft resolution 16 C/106 proposed by the General Committee,
30.2 In paragraph 9 of the proposed draft resolution, it is sought inter alia to maintain  the priorities established by the General Conference in 1960 for education and in 1964 for  science and its application to development for the next six years, There is, however, a  growing recognition of the greater importance which should be given to culture, particu-  larly in the light of the results of the Venice Conference. This is a reflexion of the views  expressed at the Venice Conference, which emphasized the greater importance to be given  to culture, not gradually but immediately, in particular during the Second Development  Decade. The Philippine delegation considers it strange that despite the lapse of 25 years  since the founding of this Organization it is only now that it has come to realize the impor-  tance of the promotion of culture within the framework of the Organization. This ia a  frank admission that for the last quarter of a century Unesco has not given the importance  due to one of the three basic objectives of the Organization. My delegation believes that  the radical consequence of this factual appreciation of a sad state of affairs should be, not  an ambiguous statement of the greater importance that should gradually be given to culture  in the distant future, but a categorical resolve to end the cavalier treatment being given  to culture and to start here and now to implement that resolution,
30.3 After all, paragraph 9 rightly states that the idea of priority is not restricted to  budgetary considerations but entails also an intensification of intellectural effort and an  improvement in the quality of the activity. So why can it not be done now, instead of at  some remote future date? Even were budgetary considerations to be considered, this  should not preclude priority being given to culture equal to that now given to education and  science. Within the budgetary ceiling adopted by the General Conference it is possible to  reallot the funds equitably among the three purposes of Unesco, that is the promotion of  education, science and culture. It would indeed be difficult to justify, after 25 years, the  continuing violation of the spirit, if not the letter of the Constitution, by continued failure  to give importance to culture as co-equal to education and science among the basic objec-  tives of the Organization, Otherwise the Organization should be called Uneso instead of  Unesco.
30.4 Paragraph 12 would establish a 7% growth as a guide to the Director-General and  the Executive Board in planning for the next two biennia, that is from 1973 to 1976. My  delegation is gratified to receive the assurance in paragraph 12 that this growth rate takes  into account the foreseeable savings in the operation of the Organization and the execution  of its programme. My delegation would have preferred, however, the further inclusion  of a directive to explore the possibility of increasing the amount, if not the sources, of  the extra-budgetary funds that may become available for the use of the Organization, in  order tn reduce the heavy burden on the Member States who shoulder the budget of the  Organization; particularly the developing countries, whose populations can hardly keep  body and soul together and who, on top of poverty, have to contend with natural calamities  and disasters such as typhoons, earthquakes and tidal waves.
30,5 The Philippine delegation believes that an arbitrary rate of growth which wouldbe  out of proportion to the means of the developing Member States cannot be sustained. The  Organization cannot afford the luxury of corporate bigness. After all it is not a business  organization and certainly it is not engagedin commercial profit. The Organization there-  fore is not called upon to counter any proposals calculated to achieve the basic objectives  of the Constitution by a demand for additional budgetary appropriations. The Director-  General should be commended for his innovative efforts to meet the problem by proposing  among other things the decentralization of the Secretariat in his Long-Term Outline Plan.  We hope that the Director-General and the Executive Board will give effect to this innova-  tive approach in the preparation on the draft programme for the next two biennia, particu-  larly by slowing down the growth of the Secretariat. The emphasis should be on the re-  duction in expenditures through fiscal restraint rather than on progressive spending accor ~  ding to an imaginary if artificially conceived growth rate,
30.6 The Philippine delegation therefore reiterates its request, Mr. President, for a  separate vote on paragraphs 9 and 12 of draft resolution 16 C/106, and will abstain on  those paragraphs, For the same reason, the Philippine delegation will abstain on the  amendment proposed by France and Hungary (PLEN/22); although that amendment puts  in proper prospective the recommendations of the Venice Conference, it nevertheless  continues to treat culture as a poor relaticn of the Organization. Thank you, Mr. President.
(31.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Inglés.
32.1 M. PAPEIANS DE MORCHOVEN (Belgique), -  Monsieur le Président, deux mots tout d'abord sur les questions culturelles, M, le dé-  légué de la France et d'autres, notamment M, le délégué du Maroc, ont insisté sur l'inté-  rêt qu'il y aurait à voir se développer progressivement l'attention que l'on porte aux do-  maines culturel et social, J'ajouterais, pour ma part : le plus rapidement possible,
32,2 En ce qui concerne le document 16 C/106, je ne veux pas prolonger les débats de la  Conférence, et je me contenterai de dire que je me rallie à la position éloquemment défendue  par M, le délégué de la France, tant à propos des éloges que méritent les documents qui  nous sont soumis, qu'au sujet des paragraphes 11 et 12 qui nous causent une certaine préoc-  cupation et que, comme certains de nos collègues, nous souhaitons voir supprimer afin que  puisse être plus facilement adopté l'ensemble du document.
(33.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr, Papeians de Morchoven.
(33.2) I call upon His Excellency Mr. N'Sougan Agblemagnon, permanent delegate of Togo.
34,1 M. N'SOUGAN AGBLEMAGNON (Togo). -  Monsieur le Président, je serai très bref,
34,2 Je voudrais d'abord féliciter le Bureau de la Conférence de nous avoir présenté un  document synthétique et très bien rédigé, Vous me permettrez simplement de faire quelques  petites observations, notamment à propos du paragraphe 9, L'honorable délégué qui m'a  précédé a mis l'accent sur un certain nombre de points et, en “coutant tout à l'heure le dé-  légué des Philippines, je me suis souvenu de la Conférence dc Venise Notre délégation a  été parmi celles qui ont précisément souligné avec le plus de force, je devrais même dire  avec le plus de passion, la place éminente que l'Unesco doit donner à la ulture ; aussi ce  que je vais dire maintenant pourra-t-il se comprendre aieément,
34,3 Je suis tout à fait d'accord avec la notion de priorité, Mais je pense aussi qu'on ne  peut pas faire une sorte de procès tendant à déterminer l'instant précis où telle matière,  tel secteur du programme de l'Unesco est, disons, "la tête de pont de notre bateau"", Je veux  simplement dire que j'appuie très chaleureusement le projet de résolution 16 C/DR/Plen/22,  présenté par la France et la Hongrie, et cela pour une raison très simple : c'est qu'il me  semble que, dans sa concentration, ce texte répond parfaitement à l'esprit, je dirai même,  au risque de me répéter, à la passion que nous avons manifestée à Venise,
34,4 / propos de l'interprétation que d'éminents délégués viennent de donner du mot "pro-  gressi rement'', je précise que je l'entends comme signifiant "dans le programme que nous  venons de voter', Cela ne veut pas du tout dire que les droits éminents de la culture soient  renvoyés aux calendes grecques ni que nous redemandions à la culture de présenter son dos-  sier pour lui donner accès à cette priorité, Au contraire, il est bien entendu que, dès main-  tenant, et tout au moins depuis Venise, la culture a priorité, J'ajouterai - pour rendre à  César ce qui doit revenir à César - que tout cela est clairement exprimé dans le document
16 C/4, Quand on dit que la vocation de l'Unesco est essentiellement culturelle, on dit est,  n'est-ce pas ? C'est un présent qui dure, On ne dit pas était, Il s'agit donc d'une vocation  permanente, Maintenant, en ce qui concerne les raisons pour lesquelles la culture n'a pas  eu jusqu'à présent la place qui lui est due, peut-être sont-elles d'ordre budgétaire, Par  ‘’rrogressivement'' je comprends, quant à moi : ""dès que l'argent dont le Secrétariat pourra  disposer le permettra", ou “dès que la chose sera possible", Je trouve qu'il serait tout à  fait impossible de retoucher le programme que nous venons de voter ; mais il est entendu,
39  il est entendu, il est (je le répète trois fois) entendu que la culture, comme d'ailleurs le  dit le document 16 C/24 se trouve partout, au centre de tous les programmes de l'Unesco,  puisque la vocation de l'Unesco est essentiellement culturelle,
34,5 Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les délégués, je ne veux pas allonger cette séance  par une intervention trop longue, mais je tenais à insister sur ce point qui, d'après moi,  est très important.
(35.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish}:  Thank you, Mr. N'Sougan Agblemagnon,
(35. 2) I call upon the delegate of India, Mr. Devanesan,
36.1 Mr, DEVANESAN (India):  Mr. President, my delegation would like to express its appreciation to the General  Committee for this docur: ant, but since we do not wish to take up any more time I would  like very briefly to reiterate my delegation's interest in the maintenance of paragraphs
11 and 12.
36.2 My delegation has consistently held that we could do with a higher growth rate than
7% , though we do not wish to press that at this point. And so we would plead for the  retention of paragraph 12 as it stands. A distinguished delegate said a moment ago that  we are not a business organization; I am happy to agree with him, from a different point  of view. We are not a business organization - we are concerned with the lives of mil-  lions of people and many countries of the world. And as we think of all we seek to  achieve during the Second Development Decade, to think in purely business terms about  what we want to achieve would not, I think, be the spirit in which Unesco should look at  the forthcoming ten years. My delegation renews its plea that 7% should be only a mini-  mal rate and that we should have the courage to go forward hoping that we will have more  resources and more help to reach these millions of people, because it is with people that  Unesco is concerned,
(37.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Devanesan,
(37.2) I call upon the delegate of the Sudan,  (Lables a ll ol 3 gudl Ly) gpa) cha sil pons apd] — vA
6 od dl sane  Lt suds als oleh oi Il sin amasgle do, Used na oF 051 6 YT  oad Jaa! ages LS  Blind, pL ARTE pope gig Glass Last ras if) Joel of suf 6 Loy — vaux  ie Ll GLa of des laadl dela 55 Fil axl 5 SN 6 ila) 2 dl is  Cdl pds gb als blindly plat ol dl ge Ll dias i, iS me oY sso
39  AN Lad) isis pb Sms of wef) ya yell dghedl yo Lesa Jil  eons b ribs or Jor pladl Gad Ul JAI esas eau ol 35
6 JF. 98 cide JS 20505 eal andl ale Sa of
(38.1) Mr. SHERIF (Sudan) (Translated from the Arabic)  Mr. President, I should like first of all to congratulate the Secretariat on the preparation  of this document and to express my delegation's support both for the document and for the French  amendment to it.
(38.2) Secondly, I should like to place on record the view of my government regarding the ex-  pansion of the division for the preservation of the cultural heritage, since there was no time  for me to do so at this morning's meeting, The developing nations are currently embarking  on an earnest campaign both to reveal and to safeguard the cultural heritage within their own  countries, and the basic, natural step to take in order to achieve success in any campaign is  to strengthen and reinforce the organ through which you intend to wage it. The Dim:ctor-  General's action is correct and logical, and he deserves our thanks and steadfast support. Thank  you.
39.1 El PRESIDENTE:  Gracias, Sr. Sherif,
(39.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Serif,
(39. 2) I call upon His Excellency Mr, de Berredo Carneiro, delegate of Brazil,
40.1 M, CARNEIRO (Brésil), -  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, le problème du taux de  croissance du budget de notre Organisation s'est posé depuis sa naissance, Il est resté  longtemps arbitraire, accusant tantôt une augmentation rapide tantôt une sorte de stagna-  tion : lors de la Conférence de New Delhi, profitant d'une circonstance propice et prenant  un peu l'assemblée par surprise, certains d'entre nous purent soudain accroître le budget  d'un million de dollars, puis il y eut comme un temps d'arrêt, et maintenant c'est à chaque  moment que le Conseil exécutif et, je crois, le Directeur général hésitent et s'interrogent  sur la mesure dans laquelle les Etats membres seraient préparés à assurer à l'Unesco une  croissance continue, sur la possibilité d'établir un parallélisme entre la croissance des  budgets nationaux et l'accroissement du budget de l'Unesco. Il y a là encore des inégalités  de normes, Dans certains pays, comme le mien, il arrive que le budget national double  d'une année sur l'autre : dans d'autres, des crises provoquent une sorte de rétrogradation ;  ailleurs, on constate des stagnations, Pourquoi ne pas adopter, à titre indicatif, uncritère  qui sevait un point de départ, une hypothèse de travail - comme dit le document - qui pe -  mette au Directeur général de prévoir un certain consensus au sein de la Conférence à Lu-  quelle il devra s'adresser deux ans plus tard ? Corament peut-il, dans la solitude de son  cabinet, sans avoir vos directives, partir vers de nouvelles rives sans savoir à quelle vi-  tesse le navire de l'Unesco pourra naviguer ?
40,2 Je crois que l'intérêt de tous veut que nous puissions assurer une base ais travail qui  va commencer dans quelques jours aprè/ votre départ ; une base qui sera certas auscep-  tible de modifications, de retouches, mais qui dès le début représentera quelque chose de  solide, de valeble, d'acceptable, parce qu'acceptée à l'avance par notre assemblée,
40.3 Sept pour cent, au rythme où se développe le monde d'aujourd'hui, el surtout dars  les pays industrialisés, céla ne pèse ‘pas trés lourd dans les budgets nationaux qui vont  dans deux ans alimenter le budget de. notre Organisation, et je crois, Monsieur le Direc-  teur général, que si j'étais à votre place (la Conférence générale peut s'estimer heureuse  que je n'y sois pas), c'est 14 % que je demanderais, pour rompre les amarres qui re-  tiennent l'Unesco au fol alors que le moment est venu pour elle de prendre des ailes,
(41.1) The PRFSIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. de Berredo Carneiro.
(41.2) I call upon Mr, Hurnmel, delegate of Switzerland,
42,1 M, HUMMEL (Suisse), -  . Monsieur le Président, je serai extrêmement bref en cette fin de débat,
42.2 Vous savez que dès le début de cette session, j'ai dit que la Suisse, qui a toujours  voté le budget, continuerait de le faire, Je tiens donc, après la déclaraticn faite à ce pu-  pitre par le chef de notre délégation, à déclarer que nous soutenons entièrement les para-  graphes 11 et 12 du projet de résolution 16 C/106, Il me semble que ces deux paragraphes  sont formulés d'une manière extrêmement claire, qu'il s'agit d'hypothèses de travail, et  que le taux de croissance de 7 % est envisagé à titre indicatif, Je pense donc que cela ne  nous lie pas trop, mais qu'il est indispensable de donner au Directeur général une base de  travail pour la planification à moyen terme que nous lui demandons, Je ne doute pas que  nous sommes tous convaincus que l'Unesco doit croître et se développer ; il importe, en  conséquence, de lui donner les moyens dont elle a besoin,
(43.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Hummel,
(43. 2) I call upon His Excellency Mr, Han, head of the delegation of China,
44.1 Mr. HAN (China):  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. My remarks will be co:-  fined to paragraph 9.
44.2 While I have no objection to the French proposal, I am inclined to support the  original text. Cultural development and promotion of cultural understanding are of course  very important, and I have been engaged in these inmy country for more than thirty years,  but my experience telis me that education and science are more concrete. And for Unesco  education and science have their priorities. 1 think that it is better to have a gradual  shift towards ihe intensification of cultural exchange so that the Secretariat will in the  meantime be able to build up the necessary machinery and also the personnel. For this  reason I personally prefer the original text to any revision. Thank you, Mr. President.
(45.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr, Han.
(45,2) I call upon His Excellency Mr. Marinello, head of the delegation of Cuba,
(46) Mr. MARINELLO (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President, fellow delegates: our delegation has carefully examined the proposal sub-  mitted by France and Hungary. We think it ought to be supported, for the essential reason that  it would be somewhat inopportune, though certainly most interesting, to discuss once again the  question of the degrees of priority to be given to the fundamental sectors of Unesco's activities,  But as everyone has seen, the proposal of France and Hungary is based on what seems to me a  statement of the highest philosophical interest on the part of our Director-General, who foresees  a time when education and science will finally shift to culture, I think it veryimportant to accept  the statement, not as established fact, but as an indication of the policy to be followed by Unesco  in the immediate future,
(47.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Marinello.
(47. 2) I call upon the Director-General.
48.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais dire d'abor« que le projet d'amendement (16 c/  DR/PLEN/22) proposé par la France et la Hongrie me paraît de nature à améliorer le texte  original ; son acceptation aurait, je crois, pour effet de préciser ce texte et de l'enrichir  de quelques nuances intéressantes, Mais, sur ce point, je m'en remets évidemment à la  sagesse de la Conférence,
48.2 En ce qui concerne les paragraphes 11 et 12, je suis heureux que l'on ait proposé  des votes séparés sur les amendements dont ils ont fait l'objet, parce que ces amendements  sont en effet importants et qu'il est très nécessaire que la Conférence générale prenne cons-  cience de ce qu'ils impliquent, Ce n'est pas que ce qui figure dans le texte qui vous estpré-  senté me paraisse de nature à vous effrayer, Cela représente au contraire un incontestable  progrès méthodologique dans la programmation, progrès qui, quel que soit le chiffre auquel  on s'arrêtera finalement, se traduira par un gain très positif,
48,3 Je n'exagère pas, je crois, Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, endisant  que ces deux petits paragraphes vont être le test de la réalité des intentions, des directives  et des objectifs que vous ‘avez adoptés et qui font l'objet de tant de résolutions, Ce qui vous  est demandé ici, c'est de fournir d'abord des moyens méthodologiques et ensuite des res-  sources pour transformer ces résolutions en réalités. Je crois très franchement que la  Conférence générale, si elle ne votait pas ces textes, aurait accompli une oeuvre partielle  qui resterait boiteuse : les remarquables efforts qui ont été faits au cours de cette seizième  session de la Conférence générale pour donner plus de précision aux objectifs et aux direc-  tives auraient été en partie inutiles s'ils ne s'accompagnaient pas d'un effort analogue pour  la détermination des moyens et pour l'amélioration des méthodes,
48.4 Mais de quoi s'agit-il ? Il s'agit de quelque chose qui n'a rien, je crois, d'effrayant,  qui n'est pas de nature à effrayer qui que ce soit, Premièrement, au paragraphe 11, il  s'agit d'hypothèses de travail, Est-il interdit d'avoir des hypothèses ? Cela est-il dange-  reux ? Comrient travaille la science, si ce n'est de cette manière ? Comment peut-onef-  fectuer un ‘ravail de rationalisation, de planification ou de programmation sans recourir  à ce processus de l'hypothèse de travail ? Qu'au bout de vingt-quatre ans l'Unesco découvre  qu'il est bon d'avoir des hypothèses de travail et qu'il est souhaitable que ce soit la Confé-  rence générale qui fixe ces hypothèses, et non pas le Directeur général, cela n'a véritable-  ment rien d'inquiétant ; et il n'est pas, me semble-t-il, excessif d'espérer que la Conférence  saura accomplir ce pas sur le chemin d'une méthodologie rationnelle de la programmation,
48,5 En ce qui concerne le paragraphe 12, je voudrais rappeler que le chiffre aui y figure  n'yest proposé qu'à titre indicatif, c'est-à-dire en tant qu'hypothèse de travail, et que, s'il  est adopté, il ne le sera qu'à titre indicatif, Ce chiffre ne saurait donc lier ni la Conférence  générale qui, bien sûr, demeure souveraine et pourra étudier le 17 C/5 en toute liberté, ni  le Conseil exécutif qui aura à examiner le Projet de programme et de budget préparé par  le Directeur général et qui, même s'il était favorable au taux de croissance en question,  n'accepterait en fait ce taux que s'il trouvait pour cela des justifications substantielles dans  le programme,
48,6 L'indication donnée au paragraphe 12 ne lie d'ailleurs pas le Directeur général lui-  même ; car je pense que, si l'on se trouvait en présence de circonstances non prévues à  l'heure actuelle, le Directeur général aurait le devoir d'interpréter cette hypothèse de tra-  vail dans un sens ou dans un autre, Quel est le Directeur général digne de ce nom qui ap-  pliquerait à la lettre une résolution contenant un chiffre fourni à titre purement indicatif ?  La mention d'un tel chiffre constitue au contraire pour le Directeur général une invitation  à réfléchir, mais à réfléchir - comme l'a très bien dit le délégué du Brésil - sur quelque  chose qu'il aura reçu de vous et non pas sur quelque chose qu'il aurait vu se forger dans  sa solitude, Pendant vingt-quatre ans, on a laissé le Directeur général, permettez-moi de  vous le dire, prendre des initiatives trop importantes et trop solitaires, Il est temps que  les trois organes de l'Unesco travaillent encommun et prennent chacun leurs responsabilités,
48.7 Donc, Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, je crois que l'excellent travail  que vous avez accompli du point de vue des objectifs exige que vous fassiez un effort corres-  pondant pour ce qui est de la programmation et vous voilà maintenant en présence de para-  graphes décisifs. Le paragraphe 11 est décisif du point de vue de la méthodologie, le para-  graphe 12 est décisif du point de vue des chiffres, Mais, si vous votez en faveur de ces pa-  ragraphes, vous n'aurez lié les mains à personne ; vous aurez simplement introduit une  certaine dose de méthode, de raison et de pensée prospective dans l'oeuvre de notre Orga-  nisation ; et, dès le premier jour de cette session, il m'a semblé que c'était bien là ce que  vous souhaitiez,
(49.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Director-General,
(49. 2) This brings us to the end of the debate on the draft resolution presented by the General  Committee (16 C/106), The paragraphs willbe voted on separately, except that those which met  with no criticism will be grouped as one, On arrivingatparagraph 9, the meeting will first vote  on the amendment submitted by France and Hungary, After that, there will be separate votes on  paragraphs 10, 11 and 12, and finally, the remaining paragraphs (from 13 to 20) will be voted  on as a single group.
(49. 3) We shall now vote on paragraphs 1 to 8.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
(49. 4) Paragraphs 1 to 8 are unanimously adopted,
(49, 5) Paragraph 9, We shall now vote on the amendment submitted by France and Hungary,  which will be found in document DR/FLEN/22,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands, )
(49. 6) The amendment is adopted by 84 votes to 1, with 6 abstentions,
(49. 7) We shall now vote on paragraph 9, with the amendment included,
39  (The vote was taken by a show of hands, )
(49.8) Paragraph 9, in its amended form, is adopted by 92 votes to nil, with 3 abstentions.
(49.9) Paragraph 10,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands, )
(45,10) Paragraph 10 is adopted unanimously.
(49.11) Paragraph 11,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands. )
(49. 12) Paragraph 11 is adopted by 86 votes to 1, with 14 abstentions,
(49.13) Paragraph 12,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
(49. 14) Paragraph 12 is adopted by 77 votes to 4, with 14 abstentions.
(49. 15) We shall now vote on paragraphs 13 to 20,  (The votz was taken by a show of hands, )
(49, 16) Paragraphs 13 to 20 are adopted unanimously.
(49.17) We shall now vote on the entire draft text,  {The vote was taken by a show of hands. )
(49. 18) The entire draft resolution is adopted by 92 votes to nil, with 3 abstentions.
(49.19) I call upon Mr. Graham, delegate of the United States.
50. Mr. GRAHAM (United States of America):  Mr. President, the United States delegation abstained on the draft resolution in docu-  ment 16 C/106 proposed by the General Committee because of our opposition to the pro-  visions of paragraph 12 of this draft. We believe that the 7% rate of programme growth  stipulated in this paragraph is too high and, in any event, cannot be considered in isola-  tion from other items such as wage and price increases and other non-programme in-  creases which would in all likelihood result in total increases unacceptable to my Govern-  ment. Thank you, Mr, President.
(51.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Graham, [ shall now submit document 16 C/109 to the meeting for con-  sideration,
(51.2) 16 C/109 is the draft resolution approved by the Programme Commission on the prepara-  tion and examination of the draft programme and budget.
(51. 3) I call upon the Chairman of the Commission,
52.1 Mr. SARRUF (Lebanon), Chairman of the Prosramme Commission:  Thank you, Mr, President, This document cuntains two drafts which originally were  transmitted from the Administrative Commission to the Programme Commission because  of their programme implications. They were adopted as they appear here.
52.2 However, there is a discrepancy in paragraph 4 of the first draft resolution which  must be put in line with the previous paragraphs 2 and 3. Paragraph 4 reads: "Decides,  subject to any modifications that may become necessary as a result of the consultations  recommended in paragraphs 1 and 3 above, and that the Executive Board is authorized to  approve..."
52.3 When the Programme Commission discussed the draft resolution it eliminated from  paragraph 2 any reference to the Executive Board's taking part in this operation. There-  fore, if we remove the words which I have quoted, after the word "Decides in paragraph
4 we do not change the substance; we simply bring the three paragraphs into line. Sol  propose, Mr. President, that we remove that part of paragraph 4 after "Decides" which  (have read.
(53, 1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr, Chairman of the Commission,
(53,2) I submit to the Conference for its consideration the draft resolution, less the part of op-  erative paragraph 4 just referred to by Mr. Sarrûf,
(53, 3) 1 call upon Mr. Mathieson.
54, Mr. MATHIESON (United Kingdom):  Mr. President, thank you. I am sorry to hold you up but I think that the amendment  moved by the Chairman of the Programme Commission does not go quite far enough to  make this a satisfactory reformulation. It will be necessary to certain other words as  well. "Decides" - then the words are omitted down to the word "that" - "Decides that  the Executive Board is authorized" - then delete the words "to approve" - "that the Ex-  ecutive Board is authorized to adopt the following provisional time-table", or alterna-  tively "that the Executive Board is authorized to approve and adopt" - I prefer my second  formulation - "is authorized to approve and adopt the following provisional time-table".  Thank you.
(55.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr, Mathieson.
(55. 2) I call upon the Chairman of the Commission,
56, Mr. SARRUF (Lebanon), Chairman of the Programme Commission:  Mr. President, I approve the correction made by the distinguished delegate of the  United Kingdom. I would like to add that he knows very well that the Executive Board has
39  already adopted this time-table and that on this basis, it has set 17 October 1972 as the  opening date of the General Conference's seventeenth session. Thank you.
(57,1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Chairman,
(57,2) I must ask delegates to be patient while the text is being drafted,
58. Mr, SARRUF (Lebabon), Chairman of the Programme Commission:  Mr. President, following the last part of my statement that the Executive Board has  adopted this time-table, I would like to suggest to the distinguished representative of the  United Kingdom, Mr. Mathieson, that we abide by the original phrasing as 1 read it,  "Decides to adopt the following provisional time-table".
(59.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Sarrûf.
(59, 2) Now that this slight doubt as to the wording of the text has been cleared up, 1 shall ask  the Secretary to read it out with the modification introduced,
(60) The SECRETARY (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr, President, paragraph 4 will read as follows: "Decides toacopt the following provisional  time-table for the preparation, presentation and examination of the Draft Programme and Budget  for 1973-1974 (17 C/5) and of the medium-term plan for 1974-1978 (17 C/4),
(61.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
(61. 2) Consequently, gentlemen, if nobndy objects, we shall go over the draft resolution in docu-  ment 16 C/109 part by part, beginning with Section I
(61.3) Section I ie adopted,
(61. 4) If nobody objects, I shall declare Part II of the draft resolution adopted,
(61, 5) Section II is adopted,
(61, 6) Lastly, I submit to the Conference for its consideration draft resolution 16 C/DR/PLEN/13  submitted by the delegation of Spain,  (The vote was taken by a show of hands, )
(61.7) The draft resolution appearing in 16 C/DR/PLEN/13 is adopted by 74 votes to nil, with
20 abstentions,
(61.8) This brings us tothe end of our examination of the draft resolutions arising from the gen-  eral policy debate, but before proceeding to other matters, I should like to express my gratitude,  and that of the General Committee, to the two Rapporteurs, Mr, Al-Bassam (Iraq), appointed by  the Programme Commission, and Mr, Hummel (Switzerland) appointed by the Administrative  Commission, for their outstanding and invaluable assistance in drafting this document, Thank  you,  REPORT ON THE JOINT MEETING OF THE PROGRAMME COMMISSION AND THE  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  RAPPORT SUR LA REUNION CONJOINTE DE LA COMMISSION DU PROGRAMME ET DE  LA COMMISSION ADMINISTRATIVE  INFORME DE LA REUNION MIXTA DE LA COMISION DEL PROGRAMA Y DE LA  COMISION ADMINISTRATIVA  AOKJAZ O COBMECTHOM 3ACEZMAHHH KOMHCCHH MO NPOTPAMME H  AIIMHHHCTPATHBHOH KOMHCCHH  Lg IV SPN EAL REPU [J SEN i EG 8 AS
(62,1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) {Translation from the Spanish): -  We now come to the report of the joint meeting of the Programme and Administrative Com-  missions, document 16 C/107,
(62.2) At the suggestion of the Chairman of the Programme Commission, Mr. Sarrûf, I invite  Mr. Hela, Chairman of the Administrative Committee, to introduce this document,
63.1 Mr. HELA (Finland), Chairman of the Administrative Commission: .  Thank you, Mr, President. The distinguished Chairman of the Programme Commis -  sion, Dr. Sarrûf, has asked me to report to you, Sir, and through you to the plenary ses-  sion of the General Conference, on the joint meeting of the Programme and Administrative  Commissions held on 12 November with Dr. Sarrdf in the chair. The report has been dis-  tributed as document 16 C/107, dated today. My task now is to introduce the draft Appro-  priation Resolution and in addition two draft resolutions which appear in paragraphs 12 and
17, With your permission, Mr. President, I shall start with those two additional resolu-  tions.
63.2 First I take the draft resolution in paragraph 12, on the utilization of Unesco's re-  sources, as submitted and subsequently amended by the delegation of the USSR. This  draft resolution is mainly concerned with two possibilities: a further reduction in the num-  ber of Unesco conferences and meetings as planned for 1971-1972; and a further reduction  in the number of new posts in the Secretariat. This draft resolution does not affect the  draft Appropriation Resolution.
63.3 The joint meeting recommended by 45 votes in favour, one againstand3 abstentions,  the adoption by the plenary meeting of the General Conference of the draft resolution in  paragraph 12, I thus respectfully submit this draft toyou, Sir, for adoption by the plenary  conference.
(64.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Administrative Commission.
(64.2) In conformity with the suggestion just made by Mr. Hela on behalf of both Commissions,
1 submit to the Conference for its consideration the draft resolution in paragraph 12 (16 C/107).
(64.3) If there is no objection, the draft resolution in paragraph 12 is adopted.
65. Mr. HELA (Finland), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Mr. President, I now proceed to the draft resolution in paragraph 17, on the study  and distribution of Unesco publications, as submitted and subsequently amended by  the delegation of Switzerland. This draft resolution does not have any immediate budget -  ary implications. The joint meeting recommended by a vote of 37 in favour, none against  and 12 abstentions, the adoption by the plenary meeting of the General Conference of the  draft resolution in paragraph 17, Mr. President, I thus submit this draft resolution to you  for adoption by the General Conference.
(66.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Hela.
(66.2) In conformity with the suggestion made by Mr. Hela on behalf of the Administrative and  Programme Commissions, I submit to your vote the draft resolution in paragraph 17.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands. )
(66.3) The draft resolution in paragraph 17 is adopted by 71 votes to nil, with 8 abstentions,
67.1 Mr. HELA (Finland), Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Mr. President, with your permission I shall now proceed to the draft Appropriation  Resolution.
67.2 The textual framework of the Appropriation Resolution as originally proposed in
16 C/5, with two amendments recommended by the Executive Board, has already been  approved by the General Conference in plenary session. The General Conference,  on 19 October 1970, voted a provisional budget ceiling of $89,898,560 for the years
1971-1972 as proposed by the Director-General and recommended by the Executive  Board.
67.3 As can be seen from the document 16 C/PRG/ADM/1 the Administrative Commis-  sion, the Programme Commission and its sub-commissions, and the plenary meetings of  the General Conference, as a result of their deliberations, have recommended or decided  certain decreases or increases in the budget provision in relation to the estimate origin-  ally proposed in 16 C/5. As a result of these increases and decreases the budget was  out of balance by $290,020 over the provisional budget ceiling established by the General  Conference,
67.4 In order to balance the budget the Director-General proposed in the same working  document, 16 C/PRG/ADM/1, reductions which are listed in Annex IV of that document,  for the approval of a joint meeting of the Administrative and Programme Commissions,  Concerning these reductions, proposed by the Director-General, I wish to make twocom-  ments. Firstly, in proposing these reductions, the Director-General has been guided by  the desire generally expressed at the General Conference, especially in the Administrative  Commission, to reduce further the number of conferences and meetings and to reduce also  the number of new posts in the Secretariat, This is my first comment. Secondly, one has  to remember that it is always difficult to find the needed and appropriate possible reduc-  tions to the proposed budget during the very few days when the General Conference is still  in session. The list of reductions presented in Annex IV of document 16 C/PRG/ADM/1  is certainly not perfect - it simply could not be fully satisfactory for everyone of us.
67.5 Nevertheless, having to take a stand on this list of reductions, the joint meeting of  the Programme and Administrative Commissions, after some doubts and even regrets,  decided to accept it by 45 votes in favour, none against and five abstentions.
67.6 Finally the joint meeting of the Programme and Administrative Commissions decided
39  by 43 votes in favour, none against and 9 abstentions, to adopt the draft Appropriation  Resolution as amended, for submission to the plenary session of the General Conference,  This amended final draft Appropriation Resolution is to be found as an annex to the docu-  ment 16 C/107,
67.7 Mr. President, I thus respectfully submit the draft Appropriation Resolution to you,  Sir, for adoption by the General Conference.
(68.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Hela,
(68.2) 1 submit to the plenary meeting for its consideration the draft Appropriation Resolution  appearing in the Annex to document 16 C/107.
(68.3) I call upon Mr. Karabatsos, delegate of the United States.
69.1 Mr. KARABATSOS (United States of America)  Mr. President, thank you for the opportunity to address my fellow delegates, and  advise them of the decision arrived at by the Government of the United States of America.  This decision has been taken only after much consideration and deliberation. It deals  with the Appropriation Resolution contained in 16 C/107.
69.2 Let me say as a preface that the United States notes favourably the Director-  General's successful efforts to absorb the $290,020 increases over and above the approved  budgetary ceiling of $89,898,560. May 1 also say that during the debate on the budget  ceiling, the United States pointed out that we accepted with the utmost seriousness the res-  ponsibility to participate creatively and constructively in the work of Unesco. We have  always shouldered this responsibility, not only with words and deeds but also with money.
69.3 Nevertheless I should point out that during the past few years the United States has  been faced with an implacable problem that has threatened our economy. This is not only  a domestic challenge, but more importantly it is an international responsibility, and be-  cause of this firm economy measures have had to be taken by our government to ensure a  sound. and stable dollar. All of our programmes have been reviewed and remain subject  to continuous review in order to eliminate, postpone or reduce every item of expenditure  which cannot be defended on the grounds of urgent national or international priority.
69.4 Some of the steps taken in the United States have not been popular, in fact many ob-  jections have been loudly registered. Nevertheless, as pointed out by the head of our dele -  gation during this debate, our government has instituted extensive control on all expendi-  tures to ensure fiscal responsibility, New building construction, with minor exceptions,  has been cancelled; sorely-needed public work projects have been postponed; and money  previously appropriated by the Congress has been frozen by the President, In other  words, we have given our expenditures a critical self examination, We have determined  that we must tighten our belts, and tighten them we have.
69.5 In preparing budgets and programmes it is most important not to put the cart before  the horse, but I am afraid this is exactly what we are doing in the case of a sixth building  for Unesco. May I remind delegates that the Organization has not - and I emphasize not -  found a solution to the long-range Headquarters problem. Our delegation is fearful that
39  in appropriating funds for this building, Unesco may well be wasting its very scarce re-  sources, and if this is not placing the cart before the horse I know not what is.
69.6 The United States, which contributes nearly 30% of the Unesco budget, feels that in  order fully to discharge this responsibility it cannot vote for a budget level which it con-  siders unjustifiably inflated. As I previously noted, this judgement was not lightly made,  We fully appreciate all of its ramifications. As far back as the 84th session of the Execu-  tive Board, however, my country proposed reductions in the budget of $1.9 million. Other  nations shared our concern, yet none of the proposed reductions was accepted. To vote  for or abstain on this matter would be contrary to our belief, for it is precisely here at  Unesco that man seeks to know the truth. Therefore we would be contributing less than  our all if we did not vote our convictions, and accordingly we shall regretfully vote  against this resolution. Thank you, Mr. President.
(70.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Karabatsos,
(70.2) I call for a vote on the text of the draft resolution. The draft is in three parts: 1, Regular  Programme; II, United Nations Development Programme; III, Other Funds, Part 1 is divided  into three sections: A. Appropriation, B. Miscellaneous income, and C. Assessment on Member  States. Part II consists of the following sections: A. Technical Assistance Component, B. Special  Fund Component. The meeting will now vote on all these together.  (The vote was taken by a show of hands.)
(70.3) The draft resolution is adopted as a whole by 78 votes to 1, with 10 abstentions.
71,1 Mr. HELA (Finland) Chairman of the Administrative Commission:  Thank you, Mr, President. May I in conclusion, on behalf of the Administrative Com-  mission and myself, extend our very best thanks and appreciation to you, Mr. President,  for the admirable manner in which you have guided the deliberations in plenary sessionin  connexion with all the items arising from the Administrative Commission.
71,2 As I already had the opportunity to say in the Commission, I wish to express my  most sincere thanks to all the delegations which took part in the work of the Administra-  tive Commission and thus made it possible for the Commission to complete a rather heavy  and very technical agenda with great professional skill and in a business-like manner.  Finally, on behalf of the Administrative Commission, I wish to thank the Director-General  and the whole Secretariat for the excellent co-operation of all those involved, both before  and during the session of the General Conference. Thank you, Mr. President.
(72) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Ithank Mr. Hela for his remarks and should like in turn to voice the opinion of the whole meeting  in expressing particular thanks to him and to the Commissions for the work done by them.  TRIBUTES TO Dr, ADISESHIAH, DEPUTY DIREC TOR -GENERAL, AND TO Mr, SABA,  ASSISTANT DIRECTOR-GENERAL, INTERNATIONAL NORMS AND LEGAL AFFAIRS  HOMMAGE A M, ADISESHIAH, DIRECTEUR GENERAL ADJOINT, ET À M, SABA,  SOUS-DIRECTEUR GENERAL POUR LES NORMES INTERNATIONALES ET LES  AFFAIRES JURIDIQUES -  HOMENAJE AL Sr. ADISESHIAH, DIRECTOR GENERAL ADJUNTO, Y AL Sr, SABA,  SUBDIRECTOR GENERAL (NORMAS INTERNACIONALES Y ASESORIA JURIDICA)  BbIPAXEHHE BJAI'OZAPHOCTH I'-HY C, ATIUCEIIHA, HEPBOMY 3AMECTHTEJIIO  TFEHEPAJIBHOI'O AHPEKTOPA, H I'-HY X, CABA, 3SAMECTHTEJIO TEHEPAJBHOTO  AIHPEKTOPA NO ME XIYHAPO/HOH PETJIAMEHTAIMHH 4 IIPABOBBIM BOIIPOCAM  Lis al 5 6 plod! aad! IU 6 Lao Sad andl RY PRN ET f andl 5 6 à > J / Stig  slid petal SAP laa) wll pL al 1 LL.
(73.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Before bringing the Conference to an end, I submit two draft resolutions from the General  Committee, rendering tribute to two outstanding servants of the Organization who will shortly  retire: first of all, Mr. Adiseshiah, Deputy Director-General, with whose presence we are pro-  foundly and intimately familiar, and who, not only at Headquarters, but also outside of it, it is  the image and symbol of the Organization's activity. We are familiar with his natural gifis, his  intelligence, his experience, the address with which he tackles any problem or difficulty, his  perfect knowledge of the most varied questions, and above all the exemplary passion with which  he has served the great ideals of the Organization, from the most humble levels to the highest  posts. It is beyond the power of my eloquence to utter all the praise he deserves, and that is why  I should like the draft resolution submitted by the General Committee in attestation of our tribute  to be read out to you.
(73.2) I call upon the Secretary.
(74) The SECRETARY (Spain) (Translation from the Spanish):  I shall read out document 16 C/DR/PLEN/14:  "The General Conference,  Considering that, since 1948, the year in which he joined the Secretariat, Mr. Malcolm S.  Adiseshiah has been closely associated with the direction of the Organization, firatas Direc-  tor of the Technical Assistance Service and later as Assistant Director-General and Deputy  Director-General,  Further considering that, in the discharge of his high respensibilities he has served the Or-  ganization with unstinting devotion and energy, labouring untiringly, in particular, toadvance  the cause of developm nt and international co-operation,    Expresses the high este>m in which it holds Mr. Adis. zhich and conveys its deep gratitude  to him, hoping that his retirement, which prorn!s es to be very active, will afford him further  opportunities of promoting the aims of this Orsanization for which he has done so much. ”  (Applause)
(75,1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr, Secretary.  {15.2) The draft resoluticu is adopted by acclamation,
76.1 Mr. KIRPAL (India):  Mr. President, on behalf of the delegation of India, our government and our National  Commission, I wish to thank the distinguished delegates assembled here and the General  Committee of the Conference for the homage which is being paid now to one of my country-  men, Dr. Malcolm Adiseshiah, Deputy Director-General of Unesco. I have personally  enjoyed and valued the friendship of Malcolm and his very charming and esteemed wife,  Elizabawh, over a long period, and I feel honoured at the responsibility of recognizing  officially at this moment our great debt of gratitude to both of them for serving the cause  of international co-operation with great devotion and conupicuous s'iccess.
76.2 In a way Unesco's development, over two decades now, has been determinedlargely  by the energy, the zeal and the dedication of Malcolm Adiseshiah, who has set up impres-  sive records of incredible man-hours of work and travel, and who carries with him a large  part of both Unesco's memory and its experience.
76.3 For all these years of Dr. Adiseshiah's service with Unesco, the Government of  India have scrupulously honoured and respected his integrity as an international servant,  and we have ales been thankful to him for the service he has rendered, not only to India,  but to the entire community of nations represented here, and especially the developing  countries, whose needs he knew so well and whose development in education. -cience and  culiure claimed all his attention.
76.4 Today, onthe verge of his retirement, we can say how proud we are of Dr. Adiseshiah's  outstanding achievements and of the esteem and affection in which all countries hold him.  We now look forward to his return home to serve his own country and his own people for  many, many years and to enjoy the leisure and freedom which he has richly earned and  which, I am sure, he will continue to use not only in the service of his own country, but  also for the promotion of peace, development and human values which we hold as dear  and as precious as national sentiment.
76.5 Mr. President, a poet and seer of Malcolm Adiseshiah's own culture and language  of Tamil sang two thousand years ago: "The world is my village and all mankind is my  kin". This dream of the Tamil poet has undoubtedly been realized in the work and person  of Malcolm Adiseshiah.
76.6 Once again, Mr, President, I wish Dr. Adiseshiah great success and happiness in  the years to come and I thank my colleagues assembled here for the honour they have done  him,
(77.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  What Mr. Kirpal has just said signifies for those present, and particularly for Mr. Adiseshiah,  concurrence with the tribute just paid to the latter by the Conference. The unanimous and wide-  spread applause covers all personal tributes, and so I should like to close the list of speakers  and proceed to bring the Conference to an end.
(77.2) I call upon the representative of Pakistan, Mr. Shahab,
78.1 Mr. SHAHAB (Pakistan):  Mr. President, I have great pleasure in associating the delegation of Pakistan and  myself personally with the tributes that are so richly and so rightly being paid to  Mr. Malcolm Adiseshiah or the eve of his retirement from Unesco. Before I startedmy  connexions with Unesco, 1 had already heard a great deal about Mr. Adiseshiah the  chief architect of the technical assistance and development aid in the United Nations sys-  tem in general and in Unesco in particular, Later, as a member of the Executive Board,
1 found him a formidable avalanche of knowledge, penetration and eloquence. The only  difference between this avalanche and a mountain glacier was that Mr. Adiseshiah was  never cold but always warm; he never suppressed things under his m:ghty raastery of  facts but always brought them out factually, objectively and with a deep ~vnse of justice  and fairness. For this we shall always remember him gratefully.
78.2 As an international civil servant, Mr. Adiseshiah is indeed a citizen of the entire  world. But as a man of understanding and sympathy the developing world in general and  the continent of Asia in particular will feel a special void without his active participation  in the affairs of our Organization. let us hope ways and means will be found before long  to restore the Asian balance in the higher echelous of Unesco, to some extent at least.
39  We wish Mr, Adiseshiah and his gracious wife the best of luck in all the years to come,  and my delegation associates itself with 16 C/DR/PLEN/14 whole-heartedly. Thank you.
(79.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Shahab.
(79.2' J cail upon His Excellency Mr. de Sola, head of the delegation of Venezuela,
(80} Mr. de SOLA (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish):  I had asked to speak prior to your statement, in which you added, exactly as I wanted to do myself,  a further and personal tribute to the general applause with which document 16 C/DR/PLEN/14  was greeted. I appreciate that it is extremely gratifying for India that a citizen of that country  should have received such a unanimous tribute from the Conference, but I want to set the stamp  of universality on that tribute as you did, Mr, President, in your remarks. Whoever is active  in the service of this world-wide Organization must, in fact, be universal in his approach, and  that is what we have found in Mr. Adiseshiah. I do not want to say anything more, but to join in  the general tribute rendered to one who has worked in an international organization, on behalf of  mankind as a whole, with devotion, sincerity and efficiency.
(81,1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr, de bola.
(81.2) I call upon Nir. Romain, head of the delegation of Trinidad and Tobago.
82.1 Mr. ROMAIN (Triridad and Tobago):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, there is nothing that I cansay to enlighten you about  the sterling qualities of the manknown as Malcolm Adiseshiah. We wishto associate our-  sclves with all that has been said of him and we want to emphasize just one point. The  concept of Unesco as a body which should play and can play a significant rôle in develop-  ment in the world, improving the lot of mankind, is something to which we in the Third  World attach great importance.
82.2 When I look at the problems of this Organization, which have become increasingly  complex, sharp and ominous - for some of us there are clouds gathering - I would feel  apprehensive about the departure of a man of such ability, of one who is held in such high  ectaem by all those who sympathize with development. We have been impressed with the
39  absence within him of any bureaucratic dancing around a field. He has always shown the  greatest respect for the views of all delegations and a capacity to rise above personality.  And I think that whenever the developing Member States of Unesco begin, as they will  some time, to conduct cost-benefit studies relating to their association with Unesco, they  will begin to understand more precisely how tremendous the impact of Malcolm Adiseshiah  has been.
82.3 We wish to see this Organization develop, develop without fear of dialogue, of  debates and deep discussion, with no wasting of time over non-essentials, but dealing  with the substance of development rather than sparring with issues of academic concern  to the few. And it is because of this that we view the departure of Malcolm Adiseshiah  with more than just sadness, with deep concern. Meanwhile he has done his job well as  a true international civil servant, he symbolizes precisely the sort of universality that  we have been talking about for years, and the only thing we can say to a man who has  done a job well is that we wish him well in his retirement. This is the feeling of all of  us who have shared the labours of this Organization with Malcolm Adiseshiah. I thank  you very much.
(83.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish);  Thank you, Mr. Romain,
(83.2) 1 call upon Mr. Adiseshiah.
84.1 Mr. ADISESHIAH (Deputy Director-General):  Mr. President, Mr. Director-General and delegates, please sit back and relax for a  few minutes because I have something to say to you at this moment when the invisible line  that has divided you and me all these years is now being erased.
84.2 I begin by telling you that I am deeply touched by your homage.
84.3 In turn, I want in my mother tongue, Tamil, to say Vanakkam to four of you at this  final pujai. Vanakkam means I worship you; pujai means Mass.
84.4 First I say Vanakkam to the General Conference, which I have served for 13 out of  its 16 sessions. My mind goes back to the 1950 Florence Conference at which the Chair-  man of the Executive 3oard, Sir John Maud, asked the Conference to receiv :1y report  with acclamation and wish me bonne chance and bon voyage, as I was setting out to New  York to participate in the first pledging conference for the Expanded Programme of Tech-  nical Assistance which was just then being initiated. I also go back to the Montevideo  General Conference in 1954 when the proposal of Mr, Luther Evans, the Director-General,  to establish the post of Assistant Director-General, to which I was appointed, was made  by the delegations of the United Arab Republic and Israel, by Pakistan andthe Soviet Union.  And now at this General Conference in 1970 the great moment for me was when you adop-  ted with acclamation the Unesco Charter of decisions and pledges for the Second United  Nations Development Decade. And so I can join the wise man of 2,000 years ago and say  Nunc Dimitis, I go in peace.
84.5 Second, 1 say Vanakkam to the Executive Board, The Board started by adjusting its  programme to my heavy travel schedule and work exigencies. Sir Ronald Adam, its Chair-  man, was always announcing that 1 was to leave the next day for Chile or Cambodia andso  the Board had to take up my programme that day. This led to the oft-used and irritated  phrase "L'Empire d'Adiseshiah". I am proud that the Board has turned round and made  me adjust my work schedule and life to serve its function of programme control and super-
39  vision, particularly through its Programme Commission and Special Committee. I stand  before you a happy servant of the Board's growing and expanding empire.
84.6 Third, I say Vanakkam to Member States and National Commissions, of whom I can  only sample here a few. To France, my home from home, this city and country of lumin-  ous light and universal culture, where my friends extend from that great Frenchman and  symbol of the creative in our world who has left us this week, General de Gaulle, who on  one occasion looked at me with a glint in his eye and asked "Do you really enjoy Unesco?"  on to fellow professionals like André Maurois, Michelde Beauvais, François Perroux,  Jean Thomas, Paul-Marc Henry and Yves Brunschswig. To Great Britain where I have  innumerable friends among whom I will always remember Sir Edward Boyle, David (now  Lord) Eccles, John Vaizey and Hans Singer, who inspired and supported me in my work.  To Eek, Myrdal, Hela, de Hoog, Ricardo Diez, Bernard Barbey and Jeanne Hersch of the  Nordic countries and Netherlands, Spain andSwitzerland with their warm human memories;  to the United States and Canada who started me on my path of development co-operation  and whose people and leaders, extending from John Kennedy to Irving Solomon, Lester  Pearson, John Grierson, Elizabeth Heffelfinger, Paul Hanna, Sam de Palma, Alvin Eurich,  Alan Pifer, Fred Harbison and Wilbur Schramm have spurred me on to greater efforts.  To the Soviet Union, all the Socialist countries of Europe, who taught me many lessons in  social and scientific development, receiving from many close friends like Sobakine, Sissa-  kian, Romanovsky, Vakhruchev, Josef Grohman, Tudor Vianu, Wierblowski, Vilfan and  Vinogradov the kind of unfailing understanding and support that I needed,
84.7 To Latin America - starting with Pepe Figueres of Costa Rica, whohas now returned  as its President, who took me from the Havana Conference to his Finca La Lucha and  taught me how to plan and run a development project, which was Unesco's first in Latin  America. Venezuela, where an enterprising journalist rooted me out at 4 a.m. in my  hotel which I had reached at 2 a.m,, the flashlight photograph of me inmy striped pyjamas  appearing the next day in El Tiempo with the caption, "Gandhi's follower visiting Venezuela"  (those were the days when plane schedules were never kept, when alone and lost, lugging  a heavy suitcase, it was great luck to find one broken down taxi at the airport. And as I  went around the government offices inquiring who dealt with the Expanded Programme of  Technical Assistance, I always got the answer "Expanded What"). Colombia, where I  learned development at the feet of Gabriel Betancur andhis ICETEX programme and Padre  Salcedo and his pioneering Radio Sutatenza. Brazil where I discovered that President  Kubicek replied to all my questions about our Latin American programme by each time  putting to me the question, "what does Paulo Carneiro think about it?" After that I used  to walk the 10 metres from my office to that of Paulo Carneiro or Carlos Chagas to find  out what Brazil thinks rather than travel out 10,000 kilometres to Rio de Janeiro or  Brasilia to make my soundings. So too are memories of Eduardo Frei of Chile, Velasco  Ibarra of Ecuador, Aramburu of Argentina, Fidel Castro the charisma of Latin America,  Solomon, Wynter, Seaga, Arthur Lewis and Romain of the Caribeean and that beloved  land, Mexico, which is Unesco in and for Latin America and was for me always a means  and place of refreshment and renewal.
84.8 To Africa, where at the first Conference of Free Africa at Addis Ababa in 1961 the  historic Addis Ababa Plan was adopted, the leader of the 36 African Ministers, Minister  Ekwabi of Cameroon, suggested to His Majesty Haile Selassie at the concluding banquet  that he offered to celebrate the momentous occasion, that the names of Addis Ababa and  Adiseshiah be exchanged, so that the great city should be called Adiseshiah and I should  be called Addis Ababa: to Leopold Senghor, who worked with me for many years when we  lived in the seizième quartier in Paris, Kenneth Kaunda of Zambia as we fought the develop-  ment battle at the 1962 Oxford Conference, Nyerere, Kenyatta, Hubert Maga, Sékou Touré,  and Tsiranana and a whole host of friends like Hampâté Ba, Dadié and Cookey, who taught  me that development is Man.
84.9 To the Arab lands and their peoples, whose Presidents of Lebabon, Syria and Iraq,  Kings of Morocco, Saudi Arabia and Jordan dreamed dreams of CAFRAD, ASCETEP and
39  other development initiatives that are now being realized, and my innumerable friends in  Tunisia, Algeria, Sudan and the Yemens, I cannot express all that I have learned from  them and the bonds of friendship and affection that hold us together. To the United Arab  Republic which is the Unesco of and for Afro-Asia and its steel frame of support and  friendship, with which I associate the names of Okasha, Taha-Hussein, Soliman Huzzyin,  El-Borollossi, Tolba, Awad, Abbas Amar, Tewfik and others, is and will be as rock firm  and permanent as the Temples of Nubia, which it has saved for all of us.
84.10 To Asia (including Australia and New Zealand) - to whom I said goodbye at our  Teheran rendez-vous in September - I say nothing except to express my deep sorrow and  sense of mourning to our brothers and sisters who are victims of the typhoon in Pakistan  and to say that if I stand tall today, if I have not faltered in the tasks that you have given  me to do it is because of you - Asia - I am of you.
84.11 Finally I say Vanakkam to the Director-General and the 4,000 fellow Secretariat  men and women scattered over all our 125 Member States with whom I have shared all the  joys and sorrows, the great and small moments of serving you. I have served all the  Directors-General of Unesco starting with Julian Huxley on to René Maheu, and to all of  them, particularly to Maheu, go my respect and affection. During this biennium the res-  ponsibility of acting as head of each of the five sectors - Education, Natural Sciences,  Social Sciences, Human Sciences and Culture, Communication and Administration - has  been thrust upon me. It has been a joyful and revealing experience and the revelation that  I pass on to you delegates, you Mr. Director-General and you Mr. President is this - you  have a fine, efficient, loyal and devoted staff servingyou. Youcanirust them and be proud  of them. To all of them and for all the friendship and love that they have given me, I pay  now my humble homage. This salute extends also to all of my 50,000 fellow staff mem-  bers in the United Nations family who are, as Toynbee reminds us, "the new civilization  of the world of tomorrow".
84.12 There is one staff member who is not a staff member to whom also I say Vanakkam.  That is a person whom few of you know and who is at all times unseen - my wife, who has  had a lot to put up with both on my behalf and Unesco's and who has adjusted her life and  managed mine so that I was able to serve the Unesco which I love and adore in the way  that I have.
84.13 And as I end, I would like to repeat the closing words of the testament that I leave  behind for you and all who are of Unesco.
84.14 "I have a reason for this testament, this portrayal, for setting down the truth as I  have seen and known it in the cause of development, It is to serve Unesco. It is by truth  that Unesco works for the brotherhood of man, just as it is through the brotherhood of man  that she works for truth. And itis by following these two great calls alone that the Organiza-  tion will prevail,
84.15 "And 1 am still in Unesco's service. It is still my rôle, my purpose, my inner  calling, my way of life. Like India with her endless variety of races and creeds, of  riches and poverty, of the old and new, eternal change and endless permanence, Unesco  is still my country and still my task.
84.16 "I believe the time will come when all men will recognize two countries in their in-  most heart: the country of their birth, the country that formed them, that gave them sus-  tenance and their first sense of strength and solidarity and identity, and that other coun-  try, the country whose boundaries endlessly recede, whose flag is made of hundreds of  flags, whose rivers flow from a thousand sources, that universal country which is our  calling and our destiny, where all men are brothers, where all men and women work to-  gether not for power or material goods alone, but to "add an inch of happiness'' to each  other's lives,
84.17 "I realize that the time is not yet here, that perhaps at this moment it is further  away from us than ever. I realize that Unesco is but one of the first, cautious embodi-  ments of that universal country of the human mind and heart which may never come fully  into existence. Still I lift my voice as generations ago Tagore lifted his voice toIndia,  still I repeat his words so much more eloquent than my own, which say so well what I  would wish to say, which I believe will echo in men's hearts wherever and whenever  Unesco is given the power to speak:  "Where the mind is without fear and the head is held high;  Where knowledge is free;  Where the world has not been broken up into fragments by narrow  domestic walls;  Where words come from the depths of truth;  Where tireless striving stretches its arms towards perfection;  Where the clear stream of reason has not lost its way into the  dreary desert sand of dead habit;  Where the mind is led forward by Thee into ever widening thought  and action;  Into that heaven of freedom, my Father, let my country awake."
(85.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Adiseshiah.
(85.2) I now have the honour to refer, on behalf of the General Committee, to the other tribute  which it proposes for the approval of the Conference: the tribute to Mr. Saba, Having a certain  affinity with the legal calling, I understand the emotion inevitably felt by so eminent a colleague  at such a time. We have all appreciated in Mr, Saba a sound, efficient and industrious legal ad-
39  viser. The legal profession presupposes a certain ability to discern, it obliges us to cultivate a  nice sense in the matter of nuances and distinctions, and Mr. Saba has given proof of these quali-  ties, tackling doubtful points and queries with extraordinary frequency and settling them withtact  and the utmost consideration. But furthermore, in carrying out his duties within the Organiza-  tion, he has paved the way for what promises in future to be a very full development in the direc-  tion of the attainment of our objectives, as regards not only the rights of human beings, their de-  fence, promotion and education, but also the establishment within the programme of a body of  standards to guide the Organization in its work - standards firmly grounded in law and based on  precise, effective and creative formulas of co-operation, For that reason, Mr. Saba has the  great satisfaction of having been not only an adviser, but also a policy-maker, under whose guid-  ance we have followed the standards imposed by him as adviser and always nobly inspired by the  Director-General. The resolution, which I shall ask the Secretary to read out, will serve better  than any words of mine to express the gratitude of the Conference.
(85.3) I call upon the Secretary.
(86) The SECRETARY (Spain) (Translation from the Spanish):  "The General Conference,  Considering that, since 1950, the year in which he joined the Unesco Secretariat after serving  With the Secretariat of the United Nations, Mr. Hanna Saba, in his capacity as the Organiza-  tion's principal legal officer and, since 1967, Assistant Director-General for International  Standards and Legal Affairs, has made a distinguished contribution to the development ofthe  normative action of Unesco,  Appreclating the high sense of responsibility which h  with unfailing loyalty and remarkable competence,  e has demonstrated throughout the years  Expresses its profound gratitude to Mr. Saba and wishes him a happy and fruitful retirement,  during which he will no doubt continue to serve the Organization's objectives."  (Applause)
(87.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentine) (Translation frora the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
(87.2) The draft resolution is adopted by acclamation.  the United Arab Republic,
(87.3) 1 call upon Mr, Tolba, representative of
39  (daniel ip al Lp ppend]) pdb JUuS gibay 555$ 081 fared] — AA
6 gt df andl  lis Jl ransl of 6 FanaJl il gpl 55 of aus 6 pd 5159 on
6 5500 aia Vin ple Lenny ses wad 4 25a Luis hall pened!
38 6 64 iis Sad, sll pe oY 6 SLE plead Tae pl pedal as Yes ssl  sel dpe lingo Lei) Gis lil lisa plod) madi de lee 6 4 Le Liyang  JS Gil Jatt JS Road Jasdl sprl go bale guise aay ibid] sda od Jeol  J PP J |B SUS | PRT  Must y ola! od Laas diss pdl JSLaddl JS oi aril) Jl glass gill gues]  Sady 6 Lille Lim jpaSadl ad Lorie Lapel Gly Lasis Jed! ans LiS asl, o J  CBU i 6 Lil Leddy pall Sr JS ob HAS 0558 sla 6 AUS Judy 6 US  eros ob ol aug hof yl G0 ads cole Gully 6 dada HINER] I | RAY OC | I  cle ul J oe olen! Sf GU YG ds,
(88.1) Mr. TOLBA (United Arab Republic) (Translated from the Arabic)  Mr. President, it gives me great pleasure, on behalf of the delegation of the United Arab  Republic, to express to this distinguished gathering the thanks of my country's delegation and  of its government and people for the noble tribute which the General Conference has paid, with  such cordial unanimity, to a distinguished citizen of my country, Mr. Hanna Saba, Assistant  Director-General and Legal Adviser of the Organization, on the occasion of his retirement  after twenty years of devoted and untiring service to Unesco and its Member States.
(88.2) For all of us in Unesco, Mr. Saba has been the ultimate authority to whom we have  turned whenever a problem appeared insoluble, and who has never failed to produce a solution  that was clear, reliable and convincing. But over and above that, he has played an immense  part in all the Organization's efforts, especially as regarda conventions and intricate legal  matters, which, thanks to his penetrating intellect and precision of style, have been presented  with a clarity that left no room for controversy or misinterpretation on the part of any of us.
(88.3) The United Arab Republic looks with pride and admiration on one of its sons who has  been able, by his creative efforts, unique experience and sterling character, to attain high  office in this Organization and win the high personal regard of all those who have worked in it  or had dealings with it. We also look forward with interest and pride to the period now approach-  ing, in which it is our hope that Mr. Saba having completed his work for Unesco, will give his
39  country and the entire Arab nation the benefit of the immense experience he has gained in twenty  years of untiring exertion and intellectual application.
(88.4) Once again I thank you, Mr, President, and the distinguished members of the Confer-  ence for your courteous tribute to a distinguished son of the Arab nation, and I pray thathe  will continue to enjoy the fullest possible measure of health, happiness and success in the years  that lie before him. Thank you, Mr. President.
(89.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  I interpret these words of Mr. Tolba as being a tribute to Mr. Saba from his country, incon-  currence with that paid by the Conference.
(89.2) 1 call upon His Excellency Mr, El Fael, head of the delegation of Morocco.  ( ay medi Slee) pe ldd) orne / aid] lI — 4.  PRPYOIE RU | a J) EOS  A CY EL hs. HI DUT 4 | JRE UN VY (RN SR 1 pS at  RY JU | PON Ev: Jay PUL 4 4 JL 5 001$, à heghs Las OS JEN I IP 9er a  ool ss pd LL of eda ad, 6 Lésucof SLE Lsliiel! os day all  ey 6 yat is) Live pe Lag pal Ji poem oJ aS Le LU Luda af RTE J IY  Peles oe Ld dti Lee Sas pri: side Lae ao gd pny  pine ide ibaa LF ipa ae Jus gid oe Lle Las Sal WF og, py  of om ol las Lee ast af) I glam, flan, 6 si pudaedl (3 sas Lit,  bom JS ody plaid JS obo SAS pdaadl Gh Lh ied oe ST 3 Le  ci esUidl anally Tipadl asdpan ly ayes Wl Led gloss Julie Lid Sass  oe Lis, as dey aidan Vo) sf jay doe Ladd dbs 56 La PSS — qo  Lito) sda oF die Ye de oJ 5 Lad] col, 6 que of mi le Gras LS  af 1 190 edd, AIN pda] el Gad J GLS Louis are aden  set olan Lr J JU 6 pas Sf ges of sl Lesa Ll L du  iS yd Sun, Lili Juin oF 6 pas sf 4 Lolaÿsl sda do ls of 0 9  YoY of dss of ose ibosdl oe prés of AUS 11505 LL oi dés of con  RE ICON UN POETS. SPS | By SL OU Rr I PAR | J WE PR US pas 6 AT  J 5 pass pall AIN pel ols 6 55h05 oe LS le TE Ts — ql  TC | Ry TE ail ef RE EL Lr  dite if dale code 55958 5565 Visas 6 Lael JL] QUIS Jade LS  plane asus party + Liielie of Led pil LAS gl sda oe SIL LL  ip Sly La psdsl psa of gus VON 6 AVIS os JS Lle play Latins!  eLsLiIl oi police AIS gall Lists 6 game os SA LN poland slacl olay sd  lapels Sas Lal peel pail ddd 6 Vs Lila pr oad! oils ps  cle add, (WI |  NUT DEC 06 FI EN
(90.1) Mr. EL-FASI (Morocco) (Translation from the Arabic)  Mr. President, I am grateful to you for giving me the opportunity to speak on this occasion,  when we are paying tribute to two distinguished men who have rendered immense services to  Unesco. 1 had asked for the floor in order to express on behalf of the Arab delegations their  gratitude to Mr. Adiseshiah, but it seems that the Secretariat did not notice my signal.  Mr. Adiseshiah knows, however the affection and respect in which he is held by all the Arab  countries, and how well they are aware of the extent to which his services will be missed by  Unesco.
(90.2) As regards Mr, Hanna Saba, I know the truth of what has been said sbout him from my  own experience over a number of years as a member of the Executive Board, which has occas-  ion to seek his opinion more often than any other organ of Unesco. In the Board, at every  meeting and on every occasion, questions would arise that called for his lucid intelligence and  detailed knowledge of legal effairs.
(90.3) These problems were often so subtle and complex that had it not been for his knowledge  ability and competence, it would have been difficult for anyone else to find an answer to them.  The experience he had acquired during hie twenty years with Unesco made him my principal  source of guidance when I had the honour to be Chairman of the Executive Board, I once said  to him, ‘Mr. Legal Adviser, please answer yes or no. He replied, Mr, Chairman, itis  impossible to answer yes or no in these cases, since there are distinctions tobe drawn and  many points to be taken into consideration. He was thus able to extricate himself from the  difficulty without anawering either yes or no, but nevertheless we were able to solve the pro-  blem confronting us.
(90.4) This gives you some idea of his competence and ability. On behalf of the Arab coun-  tries I offer him our very best wishes for the years that lie ahead of him, Iknow thathe intends  to occupy himself with teaching, as does Mr. Adiseshlah, and so Unesco will have prepared the  way for whatever universities are lucky enough to profit from the vast experience which these  two distinguished men have gained in our Organization. We also offer our very best wishes to  Mrs. Adiseshiah and Mrs. Saba, for we do not forget the kindness and hospitality they exten-  ded to the wives of members of the Executive Board while their husbands were busy attending  the Board's meetings. I should therefore also like to convey our thanks to these two ladies on  behalf of the wives of Executive Board members. Good-bye and God bless you.
(91.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. El Fasi,
92,1 M. SABA, sous-directeur général pour les normes internationales et les affaires  juridiques :  (L'orateur commence en arabe)  (dsl oyna) glad) aed] d6 Le) Kyle Lix/avedl — ayy
6 wile 6 ol se 6 pat SN ae  Pepe) Pf | pes gl is M LOL oe ust ix yd of guy of PEEL OW |  NUR TY [PR #3] RS SY Lys peul PU J | Her 581 pal of
(92.2) Mr. SABA (Assistant Director-General for International Standards and Legal Affairs)  (Translated from the Arabic)  Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen, it is impossible for me to say how moved I have  been by the generous words that have been addressed to me, and ! should like to express my  deepest thanks and appreciation to all the delegations. i
39  (L'orateur poursuit en français)
92.2 Monsieur le Président, par une curieuse coïncidence, ce jour de clôture de la sei-  zième session de la Conférence générale est aussi celui où se termine ma vingt-quatrième  année de fonctions internationales, Auparavant, j'avais oeuvré dans les rangs nationaux et  comme membre de diverses délégations de mon pays, participé à la Conférence de San  Francisco et, pendant plus d'unan, aux premiers travaux des principaux organes des Nations  Unies,
92,3 Un quart de siècle au service des Nations Unies et de l'Unesco, c'est, même si l'on  se veut optimiste, plus du tiers d'une existence et à l'âge où elle se situe, c'en est certai-  nement la plus belle partie, On recueille beaucoup de souvenirs, et, à l'heure mélancolique  des adieux, on est amené à en évoquer certains : les premières réunions du Conseil de sé-  curité, qui ne dédaignait pas de tenir séance cans une école de filles, et qui, dans l'atrio-  sphère amicale du Hampton College, donnait à ses importantes délibérations un caractère  de détente qui n'a pas toujours été conservé depuis ; l'Unesco de l'avenue Kléber, l'hôtel  Majestic, où les salles de réunion aux dimensions réduites et nos bureaux aux grandes che-  minées évoquaient davantage le monde et le style du début du siècle que ceux des années
1950, En traversant la Seine en 1958, r ous avons certes franchi bien plus qu'un quart de  siècle, et je ne me réfère pas seulement à l'architecture du nouveau bâtiment ou à l'extra-  ordinaire transformation de la mode féminine, mais aussi, et surtout, à l'accentuation du  mouvement qui nous a définitivement orientés vers l'anticipation, la planification et la pro-  grammation de nos activités deux ou trois ans à l'avance, six ans avec le C/4, dix ans avec  les décennies, Dans cette perspective, le temps présent ne conserve peut-être pas toujours  l'importance primordiale qu'il mérite, et nous risquons de ne plus pouvoir consacrer à  l'action et à l'exécution les efforts et les soins nécessaires.
92,4 Monsieur le Président, en évoquant ces quelques souvenirs, j'ai sans doute dépassé  le cadre d'une courte allocution d'adieu, Je vous prie de m'en excuser, Mon propos était  surtout d'exprimer à la Conférence générale ma vive reconnaissance pour le témoignage  d'appréciation qu'elle veut bien m'adresser et de dire, à vous-même, Monsieur le Prési-  dent, au Président et aux membres du Conseil exécutif, au Directeur général, aux délégués  ici réunis, aux membres du Secrétariat et à tous ceux avec lesquels, à des occasions et à  des titres divers, j'ai eu le pluisir de collaborer, la satisfaction et la fierté que je conserve  de cette collaboration,
92,5 Je voudrais aussi vous dire que je suis convaincu que la fin d'une carrière adminis-  trative, si elle peut limiter les possibilités d'action, n'affecte enrienune vocation ni l'orien-  tation d'une existence et d'une pensée consacrées pendant de nombreuses années à la réali-  sation des objectifs de l'Organisation, Elle n'affecte pas davantage les liens d'amitié et d'es-  time que de longs efforts menés en commun ont créés et dont j'espère conserver toujours  le précieux bénéfice, Merci, Monsieur le Président,
(93) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Saba.  CLOSE OF THE SESSION/CLOTURE DE LA SESSION /CLAUSURA DE LA 16a. REUNION/
3AKPBHITHE IIECTHARLATON CECCHH 3,,0Jl pts
(94.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Fellow delegates, we have now arrived at the close of the session, The General Committee,  in accordance with tradition and after consulting the respective groups, has designated the  speakers, Onbehalf of the General Committee, 1 thank them in anticipation for their contribution.  His Excellency Mr. Rahnema, head of the delegation of Iran, will speak for Asia; Mr. Baugnlet,  delegate of Belgium, will speak for Western Europe; His Excellency Mr. El-Borollossi, head of  the delegation of the United Arab Republic, will speak for the Arab States; Mr. LeBlane, head of  the delegation of Canada, will speak for North America; His Excellency Mr. Mfinanga, head of  the delegation of Tanzania, for Africa; His Excellency Mr. Lipatti, head of the delegation of  Romaina, for Eastern Europe; His Excellency Mr. Eduardo Paz Aguirre, head of the delegation  of Uruguay, for Latin America and the Caribbean.
(94.2) I have received a note from the Secretary of State for National Education in France, His  Excellency Mr. Pierre Billecoq, regretting his inability to attend the meeting, as he would have  liked, as he is obliged to be present at today's session in Parliament, when the Budget of the  Ministry of Education will be discussed. He trusts that the ministers and heads of delegations  will understand the occasion of this constitutional obligation, but adds that he will be present in  spirit, as he has asked his permanent delegate, Mr, Maillard, to represent him,
(94.3) 1 call upon His Excellency Mr. Rahnema, head of the delegation of Iran,
95,1 M, RAHNEMA (Iran), -  En demandant à ma délégation de parler en son nom, le groupe asiatique lui a fait un  grand honneur, Cet honneur témoigne de la confiance que l'Asie met en mon pays, Pour ma  part, j'ai toujours, en tant qu'Iranien, été fier d'appartenir à ce grand continent, auquel  nous sommes reconnaissants d'avoir su maintenir, ici comme ailleurs, ses traditions so-  lides et plusieurs fois millénaires d'humanisme et de sagesse, de courage et d'espoir militant,
95,2 Dans la mesure où ces traditions sont celles-là mêmes que l'Unesco est appelée à dé-  fendre, en les réadaptant constamment aux conditions d'un monde soumis à l'accélération  croissante de l'histoire, cette seizième session de la Conférence générale me paraît avoir  été une réussite, Cette réunion a été digne de l'Année internationale de l'éducation (qui a  constitué un excellent point de départ, voire un tournant, dans l'évolution des politiques  éducatives et scientifiques nationales), digne aussi du vingt-cinquième anniversaire de notre  Organisation comme de la Décennie qui s'ébauche,
95.3 Il suffit de se reporter aux résolutions qui ont été adoptées à propos de la contribu-  tion de l'Unesco à la paix, de la Deuxième Décennie du développement, de la Commission  internationale sur le développement de l'éducation ou de l'université internationale pour  constater que ce fut dans l'ensemble une conférence tournée vers l'avenir plutôt qu'empreinte  du goût amèrement familier du passé, une conférence où l'espoir l'a emporté sur les ten-  sions stériles ou les compromis sans lendemain.
95,4 Je pense à la dernière session de la Conférence générale où notre collègue des Etats-
39  Unis avait cru nécessaire, à la séance d'adieu, d'évoquer l'histoire de la souris qui, sous  la menace du chat qui voulait la dévorer, avait demandé conseil à la sage chouette, Cette  dernière lui avait répondu qu'il lui fallait, pour se défendre, se transformer en porc-épic,  Et quand la souris, humblement reconnaissante, lui avait dit "But how do I do this 2", la  chouette n'avait eu que ce mot : "I must make policies, I don't execute them, " Et le délé-  gué américain avait conclu : "Mr, Director-General, we make the policies but you have  the honour to execute them, " Si mes souvenirs sont exacts, le Directeur généralavait alors  faitremarquer que, lors des premières sessions de la Conférence générale, on assistait ef-  fectivement au jeu du chat et de la souris - la souris étant bien entendu, à ses yeux, le Se-  crétariat, tandis que les délégués des Etats membres jouaient le rôle du chat ; il avait ajouté  que le Secrétariat aurait alors beaucoup apprécié les conseils de la chouette, surtout ceux  qui auraient eu trait à la manière de se transformer en porc-épic ; puis, avec la grande fi-  nesse qui le caractérise, il avait conclu en disant que, désormais, grâce à l'évolution cons-  tante des rapports entre le Secrétariat et les Etats membres, "nous ne jouions plus au jeu  du chat et de la souris' et qu'il fallait de toute façon remercier la Conférence générale, dé-  positaire de la sagesse du monde, d'avoir si bien tenu son rôle de chouette,
95,5 Quand je passe en revue les travaux de la seizième session, il me serable que la Con-  férence générale a plus que jamais mérité son titre d'oiseau de Minerve - autre nom de la  chouette -, Mais, cette année, l'oiseau a eu beaucoup moins souvent à traiter avec des  chats, des souris ou des porcs-épics, car le temps et l'expérience sont parvenus a faire  de nous tous des êtres qui sont à )a fois des chats, des souris, des porcs-épics et des  chouettes,
95,6 Sans doute cette évolution est-elle en.partie due au Directeur général et à son excel-  lente équipe, qui nous ont fourni cette année le précieux document intitulé "Esquisse de plan  à long terme". Ce document me paraît en effet tendre à mettre tous les chats que sont les  Etats membres en position de souris, autrement dit, à leur faire prendre conscience de  leurs responsabilités face au sous-développement, Comme tous ceux qui ont été rédigés  dans le même esprit, il met en lumière une vérité fondamentale, à savoir que chacun de  nous doit faire preuve a la fois d'imagination et de sens prr.lique pour que les grandes  idées dont dépend l'épanonissement de nos peuples puissent être adaptées aux conditions  particulières de notre développement national, L'expérience nous a permis de comprendre  la futilité de certaines positiuns dépassées et elle nous a également appris que, dans le  domaine de la rolitique scientifique ou de la politique de l'éducation, où s'imposent des ré-  formes ; arfois révolutionnaires, il importe plus que jamais de ne pas séparer les concep-  tions de leurs possibilités d'exécution et de préparer avec le plus grand soin l'avenir,
95,7 Or, au cours de cette seizième session de la Conférence générale, nous avons immé-  diatement été appelés à nous occuper de la préparation d'un avenir qui doit nécessairement  transcender les querelles qui ont pu marquer les premiers jours de notre Organisation,  d'un avenir qui devra se construire selon une programmation à long terme "harmonieuse-  ment harmonisée' comme l'a rappelé le Directeur général à la quinzième session, d'un ave-  nir fondé sur une réflexion aussi sérieuse qu‘ebjective et impliquant, avec la rénovation et  la refonte des structures, la naissance et l'émergence de nouveaux rapports tant à l'éche-  lon national qu'à l'échelle internationale, tant à l'intérieur des Etats membres que dans  leurs relations avec l'Organisation,
95,8 Je ne veux pas entrer dans les détails ; mais j'ai bien l'impression que la seizième  session de la Conférence générale a été marquée par la volonté de construire en commun  un tel avenir, un avenir à la mesure des questions essentielles de notre temps, Tel qu'il  émerge de cinq semaines de débats et d'‘:1tense activité, le programme constitue une base  de travail pleine de promesses ; en outre, l'accent qu! a été mis sur la planification et sur  la programmation ou préprogrammation aussi bien que sur la rénovation lui imprime une  orientation nouvelle dont il y a tout lieu de se féliciter, Parmi les questions particulières  qui ont fait l'objet d'un examen riche et fructueux, ma délégation voudrait signaler celles  qui se rapportent à la Décennie, aux projets expérimentaux d'alphabétisation considérés  surtout dans leurs rapports avec l'ensemble des systèmes éducatifs, à l'éducation perma-
39  nente, aux études sur "l'homme et son milieu", äux mesures à prendre en faveur de la re-  cherche et pour l'application de la technologie à l'éducation, aux politiques d'information,  aux problèmes de la jeunesse, à l'exode des compétences...
95,9 L'Asie s'est particulièrement réjouie de voir qu'une attention méritée lui a été accor-  dée, notamment à l'occasion des décisions qui ont été prises au sujet des commissions na-  tionales des pays d'Asie, de l'application de la science et de la technique au développement  de l'Asie, de la troisième Conférence régionale des ministres de l'éducation, qui se tiendra  en 1971, de l'étude des cultures asiatiques et de la coopération régionale scientifique et cul-  turelle, Qu'il me soit permis, au nom de mon pays, de remercier la Conférence générale  d'avoir pensé à associer l'Unesco à la célébration du vingt-cinquième centenaire de la fon-  dation de l'Etat iranien et aussi d'avoir reconnu le rôle que le festival de Chiraz a joué dans
1e développement du "dialogue"' entre les arts d'Orient ct ceux d'Occident et d'avoir invité  les Etats membres à tenir compte des possibilités qui s'offrent, à la suite de ce festival,  pour la conservation des formes artistiques traditionnelles et pour la création de formes  nouvelles de spectacles,
95,10 En cette séance de clôture, qu'il ine soit permis, Monsieur le Président, de vous  exprimer la reconnaissance de toutes les délégations des pays asiatiques pour l'intelligence  et le tact avec lesquels vous avez dirigé les travaux de cette seizième session, contribuant  ainsi dans une large mesure au succès de cette réunion,
95.11 Nos remerciements vont aussi à tous ceux qui ont pris part avec vous à la direction  des travaux de la Conférence générale et de ses organes, ainsi qu'aux membres du Conseil  exécutif et à son excellent Président, sans l'aide desquels il nous aurait été impossible de  faire tant de choses en si peu de temps, A chacune de nos sessions, nous voyons plus clai-  rement combien le travail sérieux et patient de cet organe - unique en son genre - qu'est  le Conseil exécutif contribue à la bonne marche de nos travaux et à la maturation des idées  dont la mise en pratique peut seule assurer la réalisation des objectifs majeurs de l'Unesco,
95,12 Il est enfin bien évident que tous nos efforts seraient demeurés particllementinfruc-  tueux sans la participation toujours si dynamique et si pleine d'inspiration de notre cher  Directeur général et de ses excellents collaborateurs, Tous nous ont beaucoup aidés, Qu'il  me soit cependant permis de rendre un hommage particulier au directeur général adjoint,  M. Malcolm Adiseshiah, qui, avec sa sagesse, sa patience, ses qualités intellectuelles ex-  ceptionnelles et son extraordinaire puissance de travail, a été le symbole d'une présence  asiatique authentique au sein du Secrétariat. Son départ imminent sera vivement et long-  temps ressenti par tous ceux qui, tout au long de sa brillante carrière à l'Unesco, ont pu  apprécier l'impact de sa personnalité sur le travail de l'Organisation, En tant qu'Asia-  tiques, nous sommes fiers qu'il nous ait si dignement représenté pendant de si nombreuses  années et que sa foi en l'homme en tant qu'alpha et oméga du développement, si lumineuse-  ment exposée dans son dernier ouvrage "Let my country awake', ait si largement contribué  à l'évolution des idées au sein du Secrétariat, Sur un autre plan, l'on pourrait en dire autant  de M, le sous-directeur général Saba dont le départ constitue une perte non moins grande  pour les pays afro-asiatiques, Qu'il soit assuré de la reconnaissance que nous lui avons  toujours vouée pour les grands services qu'il a rendus à l'Organisation, Nos sincères re-  merciements vont aussi à ces "'sol‘ats inconnus" du Secrétariat qui, dans l'anonymat de  leurs nombreuses fonctions, nous ont si généreusement et si efficacement servis tout au  long de la session,
95,13 Merci enfin de tout coeur à la France, Merci à la délégetion française et à la com-  mission nationale française pour l'Unesco de nous avoir, encore une fois, si bien accueil-  lis dans cette merveilleuse ville de Paris qui, par son rayonnement intellectuel, a joué un  rôle de premier plan dans le développement de notre Organisation, Et, au moment où j'ex-  prime tous ces sentiments de reconnaissance, qu'il me soit permis d'évoquer le silence  ému par lequel nous avons tenu, il y a trois jours, à rendre profondément hommage à la  mémoire du grand homme que ia France vient de perdre en la personne du général de Gaulle.  Son souvenir demeurera à jamais vivant parmi nous, car il était à nos yeux le symbole de
39  tout ce que le grand peuple de France a toujours représenté pour tous les hommes en quéte  d'une humanité meilleure,
96.2 Tiene la palabra el Dr. Baugniet, Delegado de Bélgica.  \v5.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank yon, Mr. Rahnema.
97.1 M, BAUGNIET (Belgique), -  Qu'il me soit permis, au nom des délégations qui m'ont fait le grand honneur de m'in-  viter à parler en leur nom, d'exprimer à M, le Président de la Conférence générale nos  sentiments les plus chaleureux de gratitude, Avec une autorité ferme et souriante, vous  avez, Monsieur le Président, d'une main experte, tenu la barre de notre bâtiment et l'avez  mené à bon port, à l'heure dite, malgré les récifs que l'océanographie avait jetés sur votre  route,
97.2 Monsieur le Président du Conseil exécutif, vous avez durant cette Conférence aidé  chacun dans l'accomplissement de sa tâche, en dispensant les conseils de sagesse du Con-  seil que vous présidez avec tant de bonheur, Soyez-en remercié.
97,3 Monsieur le Directeur général, la Conférence vous doit beaucoup, Tout au long de  nos débats, vos représentants et vous-même avez constamment éclairé nos délégations,  et votre Secrétariat nous a prêté un concours inappréciable. Nous sommes fiers de vous  voir diriger avec maîtrise, intelligence et courage l'organisation à laquelle vous avez donné  votre talent, votre érudition et votre sens à la fois de l'humain et de 1'universel,
97,4 Notre gratitude va aussi aux deux éminents fonctionnaires que l'on vient de fêter ce  soir. Je n'ajouterai rien à l'hommage qui a été si justement rendu à M, Malcolm Adiseshiah  et à M. Saba. Au cours des nombreuses sessions de la Conférence auxquelles nous avons  pu assister, ils ont été pour toutes les délégations des conseillers dont les avis et la valeur  ne sauraient être surestimés,
97,5 Nos remerciements et nos félicitations vont aussi aux rédacteurs du Journal qui nous  a tenu jour par jour au courant des délibérations de tous les organes de la Conférence  générale,
97.6 Dans cette gerbe de remerciements, nous comprendrons aussi ics Présidents des  deux grandes commissions de notre Conférence, ainsi que ceux qui ont présidé lous les  autres comi*és, sous-commissions et groupes de travail qui ont permis l'achèvement de  nos travaux,
97.7 Notre reconnaissance va enfin à la France, à son gouvernement, à sa commission  nationale, qui nous ont accueillis avec tant d'amitié et avec tant de chaleur, Notre séjour  à Paris, illuminé par la promenade inoubliable que l'onnous a fait faire dans l'Île de France  etparla prestigieuse réception que l'ona voulu donner pour nous dans les salles du Louvre,  a été malheureusement assombri ces derniers jours par le deuil quia frappé non seulement  la France mais le monde entier, Ce nous a été une occasion de communier dans le souve-  nir d'un grand homme déjà entré vivant dans l'histoire,
97,8 Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, nous nous félicitons de la bonne entente qui a  régné entre tous les participants à la Conférence, des contacts amicaux qui se sont noués  entre nous, de la sérénité de nos débats, Nous sommes toutefois un peu attristés que des  questions politiques, qui ne peuvent que favoriser la division, n'aient pas été laissées à
39  d'autres enceintes et que l'attention de la Conférence n'ait pas été unicuement retenue par  les questions qui peuvent unir, N'est-ce pas en approfondissant les idées qui peuvent nous  unir que nous pourrons réaliser la coopération internationale qui est le fondement même  de notre Organisation, dans le domaine qui est celui qui lui est assigné : celuidel'esprit ?  Etablir le dialogue, non pas une succession de monologues qui ne peuvent conduire qu'à un  dialogue de sourds, mais le vrai dialogue par lequel l'un tente de comprendre l'autre, tout  en lui laissant le droit sacré de maintenir son avis, son opinion, sa doctrine, même s'il le  croit dans l'erreur, Dialogue et tolérarce.
97,9 Si je fais un retour dans le passé, je constate que la génération à laquelle j'appartiens  se situe entre deux Belges qui ont été, à un demi-siècle de distance, honorés du Prix Nobel  de la paix, L'un est Henri La Fontaine, premier citoyen du monde, précurseur de l'organi-  sation internationale des nations, dont les ouvrages ont été le ferment qui donna naissance,  après la Première Guerre mondiale, à la Société des Nations ; il fut aussi l'instigateur de  la coopération intellectuelle internationale - tant en suscitant la création d'organisations  non gouvernementales qu'il devait associer dans l'Union internationale des associations in-  ternationales qu'en lançant l'idée d'une université internationale que, dès 1922, il réalisa  sur des bases modestes - et il joua un rôle éminent dans la fondation de l'Institut de coopé-  ration intellectuelle, L'autre, c'est le R,P, Pire, qui voulait bâtir la paix par la compré-  hension mutuelle des individus et des peuples, dans le respect de la personnalité et de la  dignité humaine,
97,10 Que l'Unesco fasse appel aux organisations non gouvernementales pour accomplir  certaines des tâches qui lui sont dévolues, qu'elle suscite la création d'organisations non  gouvernementales lorsque la nécessité s'en fait sentir dans certains secteurs spécialisés,  on ne peut que s'en réjouir, Aussi ne puis-je m'empêcher de regretter que la Conférence  générale ait, par une résolution prise “1 cours de la présente session, mis en péril la col-  laboration confiante et amicale qui doit -'instituer entre l'Unesco et les organisations non  gouvernementales,
97,11 Souhaitons que les efforts qui sont faits en vue de l'élimination de toutes les formes  de discrimination se poursuivent avec efficacité, et que les rapports entre les pays indus-  trialisés et les pays en voie de développement soient de plus en plus amicaux pour la pro-  motion du développement, qui doit être leur oeuvre commune,
97.12 Nous sommes heureux que la Conférence générale ait mis l'accent sur l'intensifica-  tion de la coopération entre tous les Etats de l'Europe afin que se poursuive activement la  collaboration si heureusement inaugurée par la Conférence des ministres des Etats euro-  péens, de l'éducation, de la culture et de la politique scientifique,
97.13 Félicitons-nous de la tendance toujours plus nette à donner à la culture, aux côtés  de l'éducation et de la science, la place fondamentale qui doit lui être assignée dans la so-  ciété en évolution au sein de laquelle nous nous trouvons emportés, C'est par le développe-  ment des activités culturelles, avec le concours de plus en plus actif de la jeunesse, que  cette société trouvera l'équilibre qu'elle cherche,
97,14 La recherche et l'enseignement sur la paix, que ce soit dans les instituts de polé-  mologie ou les instituts de recherches sur la paix, permettront de mieux connaître le phé-  nomène de tension et le processus de l'agressivité chez l'homme, Nous espérons que ces  études contribueront grandement au développement de la paix par la compréhension inter-  nationale. Les écoles associées et les clubs Unesco peuvent, par l'éducation des jeunes et  par leur participation, favoriser cette mission fondamentale de notre Organisation,
97,15 En terminant, je forme le voeu très sincère qu'un dialogue fraternel s'institue entre  les individus et les peuples du monde entier dans le respect de la dignité humaine et que,  par l'amour de chacun pour son prochain, la compréhension internationale nous conduise  à la paix,
(98.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Baugniet.
(98.2) I call upon the head of the delegation of the United Arab Republic, His Excellency Mr. El-  Borollossi, who will speak for the Arab States.  ppd) dy pend! IE bal yo) ped od! Gla pl as mien Mec Logg  (As yal ogy dl 58 ls — dasa  ¢ slay aldo Gest SI ga.  AU dalla dt slash, sly, Gl; oe Logie dated! sds dif of Lida,
6 ssl LG clad lof Gill 6 YosS SN Tis pet, aed! boo Lo ,ela, os  PSE FIV hell 3 GLS Las 6 DU plis per T IE 1 WE DOU | Jy BUNA REY | JE JPR rY  ERPS I on AN GT y 0 00 Léa) KRVIOU] i FEE 5] yb Cpe eS | RS | Dv) Ry PRES PN]  isdn Yl Lal 55 oS ddl 6 QUAI uel weld pais, gr laid oe sd  LTR WESSON N J PVE arrondi pla sl ui J! SCOP 6 GAIN FORA OPN | BOS ST | J JF A |  vassal aU Lode pad Gad Gl aed,  obs opal andl andl sesyadl God, aed SUL cians A5 cS 1515 qq oy  oladdl alan, dobedl sl gu 6 esnedl Tin plu i Lone af oe JS GIy Lomas lens  slash sdb 4 n0Jl gas Lues pladl aad ols RAI Gf 0 Lay, dey Los) of 555  CN 51 5e PU] Rr PUSS | WP PUR BF QU | J CY VOW | EN SRP SY WC. ol |  io idl adn esl ol 6 Jud Le GI BLL opt ane 6 he Wd asl ogg ur  Jepdlomaadt 6 (LAINE él ols pe JS addy sid nS edly dels Lin 655)  … pltl aol ne lue Lika Lux asaSaldl Gaby sla lanl VIS, 6 Kutrasof 42800  i J Bens ayers ide Jef ge au LG La pl al le ed LSS Jha,  PRESENCE Fi HOY WE HJ) SU I PRE PUR LUC WE] OE, | Rs | DN 6 SN EON | BP TR Loplos  of ods Jodo sor BUS nla Jp al is gene od Loto AL Lang pail]  ipl ptatdl Jae ob caine idl Jaadl a lgl Ge NS cand el LSU ef dl  od + Lils Uae 6 desl Lol pael gyn of api) Lisl yo dl ia tel  Jay eladks 5 ye$nss 6 pedladl CASA didi oS 00, Ul FIN gui, Gp  meal Lopidl y isla pl yal Jad) y a WS Gh SU pete JI gal)  vibdse dl Lal of Gado dala JS Lil GEL
6 od Hl sae.  dle, Sis base of Lolo col hi chs A3 JJ Le passe oF Sas 51 = qq ¢  Lbs this Jo jie au sl SI i ,0ldl oly alas lilas = ole Leo gia Bren  WA UY | I ON NEON | BR PO { PSR  Jad lg adad 51 = sal Joyhdl bohsal) Lidge Lol ay iy,adl eds caged aid oo qq
39  pal aed ll pan Lis 6 bind hast JA) — saad! bend pes ol  vo LU Jal gal od did Bh ed EL la  ol ihe] ili Led 6 ieldl Jp al Essen 6 de panel sda JLT sas  eb od Jovi eld ol Ita. 6 LA AI will Lil 5 LcBidi Ly t +4 of OSes  el] andl 59 Ldn of 31 6 dgpiaadl Uh pds pled | Least 55 adadl is  hah Lots JS  iS peo andl Mae ols las edyl 0 Seas gd GL GE aus LG pay — ey  end) 515 5 Lens a, by dl Jane ob Said) 555 anaes Sle in hd Tose  ir sonl 3S55 STO BU | BR [Ry JUG. SiN PUES VIREO OW | a EE Lux 6 Teel UT  ar 086 5 copper) Ba el shill Beis, 6 alas] JJ dehiedl pres US pal
49 5-0 dine ob SLenzddl Led, Glog 6 aul 01 ps0 Janos gdb BEN endl Les Laidl 5  vo Leis slay Jo ole¥ Ll SG pol ge brs Los ya SI Plas 1 »  mel sas ci, has Jae Bb) bles Sls 1sSae Tar Sesaedl 35, — 110A  plis ¥ Tay Lys |pol Jie = dpm cpl oll ALLIE Shalala) sy oo  a+ 54 Les old Lad adsense loo pd NE Jaa) iat ae, la oe  . Li all id CI Lae ddan of Sy dl sped Glo Leis SUT 5e edd  bal sy pid 5 59 AJl IS Lobel dha! gd Li dnzu SI cls géo JM cal ve Jods — 118  Ll oly Lili 151 aiid) gas Ÿ Lila, apd pars SANT wand! GS; La)
(45 pone of Soda] Vs dl al po pi eal ail 5e ans Ly gard ast 6 VAN  oo Laas Lely Les liad Joa Les  clad lS Luis Op 25 GLEN Ladladl sd] dmb ols AILS — qq).  ier del yoy seid] 58 Los wdbiss pally 6 Leland pened Ju Lis alt LL  od wba] cnr Gl Tiedt GL aS ad 6 iol Jaiadl per Led palo  rsh Jr ob ils 155 GI Se Janis of oe Vas itl le han ole] Ae  pladl psa ol Jog ddl SULA Jody 6 sadly FARINE OAV of edly pes  Joma Up sid Jud so Lol yaad Lobiail dl ol Glo Jods pS saad Tia 55  JRL {J IRA SN SN | WOVE gas SAIS 6 Lys 81 IY IVS § IY DSN LVS TR i SFE  He PR SO PA 580 6 Ge BE EE LI de Jur os Ne  ir | P| [SPR | I RPP rN | 425 le La gl Saad a das Less Lai - I LIL  roe iB any SI BU Jar JUS] Joe oF lant of phi cael 45 pS yd  aiid] as Sd ypsdl on Ji Uae RSI of els of la Ÿ 955 6 ALLS  ay is ld! assed J Jest oe Life Le ps LU poe LAS 3 Lendl  JS os | VO | EORCTON | Jt JS J BF EE JOT. Sa DN So LOI an LslS el LSS  . old 15e  ski pass HCY WC) 38 6 ed M BPX WOR I US IR PS IE ek abil — qq  dda ol, Rilssof Jai 8 LJ EN LUE gag rN ON es aus pdf SPE |
6yk 0515 ge E EJ JG Fute 6 KPAEOW | BOS J IEC 5 CENT I EE fd ialh Ji.  sin SN JE FON | py Wl] SURETOW | [WAST IEE | ROT IY BG I | Jar EE SP RE] Jy pe  Le holy 6 nib yl Lal sae Las debiiadl 5 Jyadb posent Ge Jods SV oll  P00 msi) Lema] Lola or Lees Gé Le de LSE, 0801 5e Lote le Las  « Lil ads alas, Ldyo ales  o ped sane  Luby gli; céline dl yndl ptt ge Ne 5 Frans — say JI useful qq oe  osbadl ys dan yes and Ling Lo 6 ld oe ast Sis Lao Lite of das - II  SPU JS 555 FIDE IE PE RAE SITE SE I SETS JS POU SVU | [VE Jef 5e GEI  SA GLEN 5e 5,80 05e cos 5 germ Ÿ aS, een Ÿ NS RS WW | |  a SLI I a5 LE = LIE Si CINE | Ba NSPS Ey | IDV) Ret 4255 [RS | PN | Rt OPP |  Clann fling 6 opie! ol plat os Jaf gn JL 5 HSM JI Copé  PS PT On IPR JA, SEY Li | a  » y=-5 Shaw 6 I SE,
(99.1) Mr. EL-BOROLLOSSI ( United Arab Republic) (Translated from the Arabic)  Mr. President, it is a great honour for me to take the floor on behalf of my colleagues, the  heads and members of the various Arab delegations, in order \o pay tribute to you, Sir for  having conducted the meetings of the Conference with such incomparable skill, and for having  contributed your outstanding experience of public business to the organization of its programme  of work. It is largely this that has enabled the Conference to deal with its extensive agenda in  the limited time available; and I should also like to take this opportunity of paying tribute to the  Director-General, whose unfailing skill, impartiality and breadth of vision have caused him to  be universally regarded as the embodiment of the principles and purposes on which Unesco is  based.
(99.2) While I have singled out yourself, Sir, andthe Director-General for special mention, my  tribute to you both is also a tribute to your assistan*s and to all those who have joined with you  in helping to make this Conference a success - the Chairmen, Vice-Chairmen and Rapporteurs  of the various Commissions, the Deputy Director-General and Assistant Directors-General, the  members of the Secretariat and the interpretc.s who have provided such an admirable simulta-  neous translation service.
(99.3) Nor must I omit a special word of praise for the noble efforts both of the Deputy-  Director-General, my dear friend Mr. Adiseshiah, and of my countryman Mr. Hanna Saba,  Assistant Director-General for International Standards and Legal Affairs. We shall never for-  get the splendid work they have done during their vears with Unesco and how untiringly they have  served the cause of humanity as a whole and the developing countries in particular. Moreover,  the fact that they are both from developing countries themselves is the best possible proof that  knowledge, experience and skill are not a monopoly of the industrialized and technologically  advanced countries. We hope that those chosen to succeed them will have the same outstanding  qualities and the same grasp of world problems, and like them will reflect the aspirations of the  developing countries towards a society based on efficiency, justice and respect for humanity. I  wish Mr. Adiseshiah and Mr. Saba every possible happiness and success in the years that lie  before them.
(99.4) The important steps taken by Unesco at this Conference to propagai: its mission and  intensify its efforts, give us reason to believe that the sixteenth session marks a major turning-  point in the life of this international Organization.
(99.5) This session has witnessed a successful start to long-term planning - or perhaps it  would be preferable to call it medium-term planning - of the Organization's various activities,  with the result that the Director-General and his assistants now have a framework within which  to plan the implementation of coming work programmes.
(99.6) This session has also witnessed an impressive effort on the part of the group of seventy-  seven States to formulate a resolution defining the hopes of the group, which is made up of  developing countries, with respect to the various activities which could be undertaken by the  Organization during this Second Development Decade, on the basis that the first principle under-  lying programmes for the decade must be respect for man and the enlargement of his spiritual  capacities, this being the essential factor in any genuine development,
(99.7) Unesco has also devoted special attention to contemporary problems and has made a  determined effort to define its rôle in the field of peace and the struggle for the elimination of  colonialism and its evil consequences. As a result the Conference was able, after a greatdeal  of hard work, to adopt a document affirming the importance of peace as a goal of the Organiza-  tion's endeavours and laying down the measures which should be taken to consolidate its founda-  tions and eliminate the obstacles to its preservation - the chief of these obstacles being colonia-  lism in its various forms, and military occupation with its concomitant violations of human  dignity, and indeed of human life.
(99.8) The Conference also devoted welcome attention to the work of the Organizaiion inthe  field of family planning, While I respect the conflicting points of view which have been voicedon  this subject, family planning ia a vital matter and absolutely essential in the case of States con-  fronting the problem of the population explosion, with its immense impact on efforts in the fields  of education, science and culture.
(99.9) One of the most importent new projects in the Organization's activities is perhaps the  project for the study of man and the biosphere. It is, perhaps, not going too far to say that the  preservation of man in his natural environment is among the most complex problems facing the  human race as a whole, and one to which it is imperative that due attention should be paid.
(99.10) In the same way, the phenomenon of the world youth revolution has imposed itself as one  of the important challenges confronting modern society - a challenge requiring an open-minded  approach and profound study, in which experts and intelligent people of every kind should parti-  cipate, of the underlying causes which lead youth at times to adopt a merely negative attitude  instead of acting as a force for social development and progress. The General Conference's  resolution on this important topic would seem to show that Unesco realizes its responsibilities  towards the generation which will bear the torch in coming years, and which we all hope will be  steadier, more open-minded and more positive than its predecessor.
(99.11) With regard to the Arab States in particular, this session has witnessed positive steps  towards the adoption of Arabic as a full official language, and we have no doubt that the Organiza-  tion will do all that is necessary during the coming biennium to ensure that by the time of the  seventeenth General Conference all the necessary factors are present to allow proposals to be  submitted for the implementation of the present Conference's resolution on this subject.
(99.12) Finally, Mr. President, I should like to pay tribute to the solid spirit of co-operation  which has been established between the Organization and its National Commissions in the various  countries. These National Commissions, as has already been pointed out at this Conference and  at previous General Conferences, are a unique phenomenon in the United Nations system, and  one which we should be proud of, They deserve full suppor! both from Member States and from  the Organization itself.
(99.13) I consider that the resolutions adopted by the General Conference in connexion with these  Commissions are the best proof of the importance which both Unesco and its Member States  attach to them, and of our determination to ensure that they are inapositionto fulfil their numer-  ous and important duties to their own countries and to Unesco.
(99.14) Both I and my colleagues from the Arab World are returning to our respective coun-  tries after having lived with you and among you for over a month, during which we have gained  a unique experience of creative co-operation for the benefit of humanity as a whole: an experi-  ence which leaves in the hearts of all of us as we say "au revoir” to you an unforgettable im-  pression and an unshakeable belief that, beneath this outer shell of disturbance and controversy  in which the world is encased, there lie, inthe depths of our humanhearts, those human motives  and inclinations which urge us to co-operate and co-ordinate our efforts for the well-being of  twentieth-century man, and to construct societies enjoying prosperity, justice, security and  peace. Thank you, Mr. President.
(100.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish);  Thank you, Mr. El-Borollossi.  {100.2) Icallupon Mr. LeBlanc, head of the delegation of Canada, who will speak for North America.
101,1 M, LeBLANC (Canada), -  Monsieur le Président, nous en sommes à un point de notre entreprise où les membres  de l'équipage se tournent vers le capitaine pour le remercier de les avoir conduits à bon  port, en évitant les écueils qui menacent les aventures humaines, Je crois interpréter les  sentiments des délégations avec lesquelles la mienne a eu les meilleurs rapports et, enpar-  ticulier, celle des Ftats-Unis, en vous disant que vous avez été un guide habile et sage qui  a su, en toute circonstance, concilier la souplesse et la fermeté,
101.2 Notre Conférence, qui se déroulait dans le ciel sans nuages de cette France où les  idées trouvent leur patrie idéale, a dû participer subitement au deuil qui l'a frappée il y a  quelques jours, La France a perdu son plus grand fils, le monde son plus grand homme et  l'esprit, c'est-à-dire l'Unesco, l'un de ses plus merveilleux serviteurs,
101,3 Monsieur le Directeur général, à toutes les étapes de nos travaux, nous avons eu  recours à votre incomparable connaissance des choses de l'Unesco, Quand les horizons se  brouillaient, vous nous avez donné les éclaircissements qui nous ont permis de continuer  notre travail dans l'ordre et le respect des priorités essentielles, Nous n'oublierons pas  que l'une des plus importantes acquisitions de cette Conférence a été pour nous l'assurance  que votre direction ne nous manquerait pas en cours de route pendant les prochaines années:  nul mieux que vous ne peut mettre en oeuvre le programme à moyen terme dont nous avons  tant parlé et nous vous sommes reconnaissants de la décision que vous avez prise de conti-  nuer à assumer cette responsabilité,
101,4 La seizième Conférence générale est terminée et, sans vouloir forcer l'histoire, je  crois que nous pouvons dès maintenant la considérer comme une étape importante dans  l'évolution de l'Unesco, aussi bien pour ce qui est de la substance du programme que pour  la réforme des méthodes,
10t,5 Elle s'est ouverte sous le signe de la rénovation et, si l'on considère l'essentiel de  ce qui a été résolu dans les domaines traditionnels d'activité qui sont les nôtres, on jugera  qu'on avait raison de dire à cette tribune, il n'y a pas si longtemps, que cette rénovation  s'opérerait par un phénomène de ''continuité en marche", Rien de ce qui était valable n'a  été renié ; tout ce que l'expérience avait consacré a été retenu et sera approfondi et élargi,  Dans le dornaine de l'éducation, par exemple, le qualificatif perfectionnera le quantitatif, et  une impulsion plus forte en faveur de l'éducation permanente ajoutera une dimension nou-  velle à un champ d'action qui garde toujours son caractère prioritaire.
101,6 Nous avons fait preuve pendant cette session d'une égale fidélité au principe de con-  tinuité et à l'impératif de rénovation, en associant pour la première fois d'une façon aussi  large les jeunes à l'élaboration de notre programme d'activités de jeunesse, Cette ouver-  ture de l'Unesco vers la jeunesse est une autre des dimensions nouvelles que cette Confé-  rence aura apportées à l'Organisation, ainsi, d'ailleurs, que le souci d'approfondissement  que nous avons manifesté à l'égard des projets interdisciplinaires qui, s'ils sont conduits  selon la "nature des choses'', permettront de donner à certaines parties du programme des  sciences naturelles le complément fécond que les sciences sociales et humaines peuvent  leur apporter, et inversement,
101,7 Dans l'élaboration des futures activités culturelles de l'Unesco, la Conférence a pro-  fité de l'expérience de Venise, à tel point qu'on a pu se référer à "l'esprit de Venise" dans  l'évaluation des projets de ce secteur du programme, Grâce à l'Unesco, une philosophie de
39  la culture nouvelle s'était dégagée a Venise, et c'est maintenant dans le cadre du plan along  terme qu'une politique de la culture, dans les limites des compétences de notre Organisa-  tion, pourra être mise en oeuvre,
101,8 Pour toutes ces raisons, on peut dire que la seizième Conférence générale a cons-  titué une étape dans l'évolution de l'Unesco. Mais elle a également été significative par la  réforme méthodologique qu'elle a suggérée, La résolution que nous avons adoptée sur le  point 14 de l'ordre du jour, qui avait trait aux programmes futurs, démontre que nous avons  atteint un point de non-retour dans nos méthodes de planification, Ce sera la tâche du Con-  seil exécutif que de réfléchir dans les prochains mois aux procédés les plus efficaces pour  la normalisation des programmes à court et à moyen terme et pour la mise au point systé-  matique d'un calendrier de travail du Secrétariat et d'échanges avec les Etats membres,  Ces procédés devraient faciliter nos tâches futures et avoir sur l'établissement et l'accep-  tation des budgets des effets bienfaisants,
101,9 Voilà, Monsieur le Président, quelques-unes des imprestions que la délégation ca-  nadienne, comme celle des Etats-Unis et comme plusieurs autres, j'en suis sûr, emporte  de ces quelques semaines de labeur en cor:mun, J'ajouterai que si aucune inquiétude sur  l'avenir de nos travaux pendant les deux prochaines années n'assombrit ces impressions,  c'est que nous confions la mise en oeuvre de notre progr”mme et l'application de nos mé-  thodes à un Secrétariat dont la loyauté et la comp{ter.e méritent toute notre confiance,
101,10 Je voudrais, en terminant, que les membres du Secrétariat voient un signe de notre  admiration dans l'hommage que nous rendons à deux d'entre eux qui prendront congé de  l'Unesco dans quelques semaines: M, Malcolm Adiseshiahet M, Hanna Saba, Chacun d'eux,  dans l'ordre de sa compétence respective, a consacré ses meilleurs énergies intellec-  tuelles et spirituelles au service de l'Organisation pour en promouvoir inlassablement les  nobles idéaux, Que MM, Adiseshiah et Saba acceptent l'expression de notre vive gratitude  et nos voeux de succès dans les activités nouvelles qui leur seront proposées, avec l'espoir  qu'ils demeureront toujours étroitement associés à l'oeuvre de l'Unesco,
(102.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr, LeBlanc.
(102.2) I call upon His Excellency Mr. Mfinanga, head of the delegation of Tanzania, who will  speak for Africa.
103,1 Mr, MFINANGA (Tanzania):  Mr. President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to express  my gratitude to the African Group who have given me the privilege of making the closing  statement. We are all of the opinion that this General Conference has been a great success.  We are therefore very grateful to the Director-General, the Secretariat, the Executive  Board and all those who have contributed to the production of the excellent programme we  have just finished discussing, We are also grateful to you, Mr, President, for your wise  guidance, without which the Conference would not have achieved that success. Vie are  thankful to the Bureau of the General Conference, to which you turned from time to time  for consultations. We are also very much indebted to the interpreters, without whose com -  petence in formulating our ideas in different languages we would not have made sense of  our deliberations.
103.2 Mr. President, throughout this General Conference, delegates expressed themselves  freely in plenary, inthe Programme Commission, inthe Administrative Commission and in
39  Sub-Commissions. It is through such free exchange of ideas that the feeling of the weak is  understood and the sympathy of the strong aroused, It is for the sake of peace that this  Organization was founded 25 years ago, after the world had experienced the atrocities of  two world wars. Yet, un to now, peace seems to be nowhere near. Is it not a wonder  that when this topic of peace comes up for discussion in this Organization, some members  think that this is not the forum for it? Mr. President and fellow delegates, let us not  give up the struggle, If we are all united, forgetting our differences, especially ecologi-  ally and racially, I am sure that the rift that divides us will gradually be healed. It is  only through contact and free exchange of ideas that we can hope to bring home the ideals  of peace. If this resolve, taken during this General Conference, can be implemented,  Unesco will have achieved something positive towards the ideal goal,
103.3 Mr. President, at this late hour I intend to be very brief. I would like to add my  tribute to Dr. Adiseshiah, the Deputy Director-General, and to Mr. Saba, the Legal  Adviser; we did not speak just now because we knew that we would have another opportu-  nity. Many speakers have praised them so eloquently that there is very little for me to  add. We associate ourselves with all that has been said and we feel proud that these two  distinguished servants of the international cause both come from the Third World. We  hope that this Organization and other United Nations agencies will continue to draw upon  the Third World, because these men have shown that it too has something to contribute,  By their long association with Unesco, by the experience they have gained, they are quali-  fied to contribute to many international activities. We wish them well in their retirement  and success in whatever occupation they may undertake.
103.4 Lastly, Mr. President, I would like to express our sorrow: at the beginning of the  last week of this Conference, a dark shadow fell over our host country through the passing  away of a great statesman. Indeed, General de Gaulle was not only a great statesman of  France but was one of the greatest statesmen of our time. Once again, we wish to convey  through the French delegation, our deepest sympathy to the government and the people of  France. Thank you, Mr. President.
(104.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Mfinanga.
(104.2) I call upon His Excellency Mr. Lipatti, head of the delegation of Romania, who will speak  for Eastern Europe.
105,1 M, LIPATTI (Roumanie). -  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais joindre ma voix à celle des orateurs qui m'ont pré-  cédé pour vous dire combien nous avons été heureux de pouvoir travailler sous une prési-  dence aussi éclairée et compétente que la vôtre,
105,2 Je crois exprimer la pensée des délégations amies qui, en cette circonstance solen-  nelle, m'ont chargé de prendre la parole en leur nom en disant que nous attachons une grande  importance aux résultats auxquels les travaux de notre session ont pu aboutir,
105.3 Pour apprécier ces résultats, il suffit de considérer les résolutions qui ont été adop-  tées sur la contribution de l'Unesco à la paix et à l'élimination du colonialisme et du ra-  cisme, sur sa participation à la réalisation des objectifs de la Deuxième Décennie du déve-  loppement, sur le débat de politique générale et sur la coopération européenne ; ces réso-  lutions montrent que notre Organisation, consciente des tâches essentielles qui lui incombent,  s'est résolument engagée à prendre une part toujours plus active à la solution des grands
39  problèmes de ce temps ; et il faudrait y ajouter, non moins importantes, les nombreuscs  décisions que nous avons prises en matière de programme, notamment en ce qui concerne  les grands programmes de coopération scientifique internationale, qu'il s'agisse d'hydro-  logie, d'océanographie ou de "l'homme et la biosphère" ; particulièrement heureuse et op-  portune me paraît la décision de proclamer 1972 Année internationale du livre,
105,4 C'est dire l'importance considérable de cette session : l'Un-sco, à la veille de  l'année qui va marquer son vingt-cinquième anniversaire, semble fermement résolue à ac-  croftre son action dans le monde et à contribuer, par les progrès de l'éducation, de la  science et de la culture, À la cause générale de la paix et de la prospérité des peuples.
105,5 Notre gratitude va à tous les membres du Bureau de la Conférence générale, à tous  les présidents et bureaux de commissions et comités de la session, pour le travail consi-  dérable qu'ils ont accompli,
105,6 Notre reconnaissance va également à M, le Directeur général, à tous ses collabora-  teurs, à tous les membres du Secrétariat, non seulement pour la qualité des documents  qu'ils ont élaborés avec la compétence et le dévouement que nous leur connaissons, mais  aussi pour la manière efficace dont ils ont su, chaque fois que cela était nécessaire, nous  aider dans notre tâche quotidienne.
105,7 Nous saluons, avec une nuance de mélancolie, M, Adiseshiah et M. Saba, dont il  nous est vraiment pénible de nous séparer tant leur contribution à notre oeuvre co 1mune  nous apparaît, aujourd'hui plus que jamais, comme essentielle,
105,8 C'est à vous, Monsieur le Président, que s'adressent surtout nos éloges, à vous  dont la sagesse souriante et la fermeté courtoise ont fait snerveille tout au long d'une ses-  sion où les débats parfois compliqués, voire délicats, n'ont pas manqué, "Le bon travail  loue son artisan'', dit un vieux proverbe : il me semble, Monsieur le Président, que l'ex-  cellence de la tâche accomplie vous autorise, avec nous tous, à vous tenir pour un bon ar-  tisan, et nous vous en remercions de tout coeur,
(106.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Lipatti,
(106.2) I call upon His Excellency Senator Eduardo Paz Agu'rre, head of the delegation of Uru-  guay, who will speak for Latin America and the Caribbean.
(167.1) Mr. PAZ AGUIRRE (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President, Mr, Director-General, ladies and gentlemen: The delegation of Uruguay, of  which I have the honour to ke head, on this occasion represents the delegations of the Latin Amer-  ican and Caribbean Republics, which have kindly conferred on it the high honour of speaking on  their behalf at this closing meeting of Unesco's sixteenth General Conference. What I say must  therefore be taken as expressing the sentiments of the countries which form this regional group.  Cuba ie not included, and in any case its delegation hag asked that no reference to it be made in  this address.
(107.2) In the first place I should like to pay tribute to the wisdom, judgement and lucidity which  the President of the (teneral Conference, Dr. Atilio Dell'Oro Maini, withhis outstanding personal  and intellectual gifts, has brought to the conduct of our discussicns, Ihave nodoubt that in saying  this I speak for all the delegations, The consummate skill with wliich he has discharged his duties  does honour to us all, and in particular - if I may say so - to us Latin Americans, who have been  worthily represented in his person,
(107.3) It is only right to emphasize as well the work done by the Director-General, whose heart  and soul are in the glorious mission of Unesco. His particularly difficult and complex task has  been carried out with balanced judgement and deep understanding. The detailed and carefully pre-  pared studies he has submitted to the Conference have made it possible for us to approach the  task of long-term planning - which is so essential if we are to have any hope of succeeding in our  task of disseminating culture and education - with a real sense of the importance of programming  and with practical and specific goals in view, The importance he attaches to these problems and  his unusually keen intelligence, of which we have had ample proof, are a guarantee that Unesco  is able to accept the challenge of these formative years in which he has been assigned a leading  rôle. Iam happy to pay tribute to Mr. Maheu and his collaborators at all levels, towhom we owe  thanks for their invaluable assistance, both in the sessions of the Conference and in the delibera-  tions of the Commissions.
(107.4) Nor should we fail to express our gratitude for the work of the Executive Board, presided  over by the distinguished jurist Dr, Gian Franco Pompei, and for the way in which it has examined  and prepared the work of the session of the Conference which Is now drawing to its close.
(107.5) The question has been asked more than once whether Unesco's work represents something  real, or whether it te merely the expression of an ideal without substance. We unhesitatingly sup-  port the view that, faced with so vast a prospect and with the difficulties inherent in an undertaking  of such ample dimensions, the work being done by this Organization represents a splendid inter-  national effort to surmount together the barriers of ignorance and backwardness, promote under-  standing between nations and enable the peoples of all countries to enjoy the benefits of progress.
(107.6) It is reasonable to admit that such goals cannot be reached in a brief period of time, and
39  it is therefore necessary to supplement the werk being done here by the faith and trust needed to  support such an undertaking, in order that it may not be an isolated effort, but an organic suc-  cession of rational plans, such as we have had the occasion to examine and approve at this Con-  ference. In this context 1 would mention the long-term plan prepared by the Director-General  and approved at the present Conference, which makes it possible to form a global view of the  tasks that lie ahead of us because it covers a longer period of time than earlier plans - which suf-  fered precisely from the defect of being incompatible with properly articulated programming.
(107.7) It is from the time of this Conference that the Second Development Decade begins, The  shortcomings and errors of the first Decade having been acknowledged, it is necessary to imple-  ment this second stage, not only with the technical, scientific and financial means proper to the  proposed end, but without ignoring the human factor that is so essential to the success of our  undertaking. The developing countries place a justified faith inthis second Decade. LatinAmerica  and the Caribbean, which together represent a very considerable portion of mankind, whose coun-  tries have been endowed by nature with inexhaustible wealth, much of it still at the potential stage,  whose produce springs from a variety of climates, soils and farming practices, have to travel  along the road to progress, technical advancement, intellectual achievement and scientific appren-  ticeship as a means of raising the living standards of millions of men and women, and turning the  continent into a veritable land of peace and promise.
(107.8) The time will come when the Latin American countries, setting aside their divisions,  will succeed in forming themselves into a genuine community, in conformity with the ideal of  Bolivar, This is already happening in Central America with significant success; and more slowly,  in South America with respect to economic integration - the first step for a major community  determined by history and by the evolution of other geographical areas in the world which are  moving towards the constitution of regional economic and political groupings whose spirit of unity  represents a challenge to Latin America to speed up the process of its own integration. That pro-  cess is now under way and must inevitably smooth out local differences and accentuate, in both  the economic and cultural spheres, the spirit of regional unity and the defence of its legitimate  interests.
(107,9) If this goal - ambitious certainly, but equally inevitable - is to be reached the peoples  will have to be given adequate skills. Modern techniques for exploiting natural resources, ac-  cess to and practical application of scientific research, a higher standard of culture withthe new  approach to problems which that involves, the unremitting struggle against illiteracy - all these  imply and require a thorough education in all its forms.
(107,10) It is essential for this purpose to formulate and implement plans for regional co-operation  which will make it possible to pool efforts and resources and achieve the necessary flexibility in  overall development and expansion, It is vital to train the skilled personnel needed at all levels  of the international centres already existing in the various zones of Latin America and the Carib-  bean, and also for new units which may be installed in the future.
(107.11) Only in this way can Latin America shake off backwardness and underdevelopment, Only  in this way, through a combination of regional unity, the internal efforts of each individual coun-  try and properly channelled international aid, can Latin America become the unfettered master  of its own destiny. Only in this way can the essential political, cultural, social and economic con-  ditions be created which will give our continent a future free from gnawing anxieties, in which it  will be able to develop its possibilities to the full, peaceably and in a context of the utmost respect  for human dignity.
(107,12) For some years past, the Latin American group has included the English-speaking coun-  tries of the Caribbean, namely: Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, Barbados and Guyana. Grouplll,  made up of Latin America and the Caribbean, voted in favour of Jamaica's candidature for election  to the Executive Board of our Organization, with the result that a Jamaican, the distinguished  Senator Hector Wynter, was one of the new elected members who now sit on the Board,
(107.13) It is only fair to point out that the increase in numbers of the regional group which I re-  present has not been accompanied by increased representation on the Executive Board. I feel  obliged to mention this and to express the hope that in the future Latin America and the Caribbean  may be more equitably represented.
(107,14) In conclusion, I must say how gratifying it is that a series of major projects has been  approved in the course of this Conference, In particular, and without prejudice to other highly  important subjects discussed, I would mention the practical and technical improvements intro-  duced, with due regard for the opinions expressed by the various coastal States, into the statutes
39  of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission, whose structural coherence and effective-  ness have been greatly enhanced as a result. Mention should also be made of the decisions, made  with regard tothe Co-ordinating Council for the Hydrological Decade, and UNISIST - one of Unesco's  most ambitious programmes - which underline the importance of this sixteenth session of the  General Conference. The development of scientific and technical information, by making it pos-  sible for scientists to pool their information, discoveries and experimental data, will help to ad-  vance our knowledge and open up the way to rapid social application of the latest scientific  achievements.
(107.15) The Conference has voted, by an overwhelming majority, the budget for the Organiza-  tion's activities over the next two years. A long-term plan laying down a definite policy has been  adopted; the Organization's plans to expa.d its operational activities have been accepted; and the  trend embodied in a rumber of highly important regional plans has been confirmed.
(107.16) We have met in these Headquarters, men and women hailing from all over the world,  belonging to all races, religions, creeds and political convictions. We have sat down together  and discussed problems of interest to all our peoples, in search of common golutions which it  would be fair to say that we have gone a considerable way towards achieving,
(107.17) As the sixteenth session of the General Conference draws to itn close, we can claim  Unesco emerges from it strengthened in its action and prestige; and in the name of Latin America  and the Caribbean, we express the hope that the spirit of international solidarity we have seen  here will continue to be the instrument of peace and true understanding among all nations.  Thank you.
(108.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Paz Aguirre.
(108.2) I call upon Mr, Maillard, delegate of France,
109,1 M. MAILLARD (France). -  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, comme l'indiquait tout à l'heure le Pré-  sident de la Conférence générale, il était dans l'intention du Secrétaire d'Etat à l'éduca-  tion nationale, M, Pierre Billecoq, de venir ici ce soir vous adresser, suivant la tradi-  tion, le salut et les adieux du pays hôte, Les servitudes du calendrier parlementaire, hélas  bouleversé cette semaine pour les douloureuses raisons que chacun sait, l'ont malheureu-  sement retenu loin de nous, Il m'a chargé de vous en exprimer ses très vifs et très sin-  cères regrets, C'est donc à moi qu'échoit l'honneur et le privilège de vous dire ce soir,  avec moins d'éloquence mais autant de chaleur et de sincérité, les paroles qu'il aurait sou-  haité prononcer devant vous,
109.2 Voici venu le moment où, sa tâche achevée, la Conférence générale va se disperser,  C'est l'instant où chacun se sent gagné par le sentiment du devoir accompli, par la satisfac-  tion d'avoir mené à bonne fin la mission qui lui avail été confiée, par le sentiment de mé-  lancolie, aussi, qui accompagne toujours l'approche d'un départ,
109,3 Ces sentiments, pour nous Français, viennent se perdre dans la tristesse infinie  que nous cause la disparition de celui qui incarna notre destin, Qu'il me soit permis, Mon-  sieur le Président, Messieurs les délégués, de vous dire au nom de mon gouvernement et  de tous les membres de la délégation française combien nous avons été touchés par les  marques de sympathie que vous avez bien voulu exprimer à mon pays dans cette doulou-  reuse circonstance, par la part que vous avez prise À notre deuil, et combien profondé-  ment nous avons ressenti l'hommage rendu par l'Organisation à celui qui, il y a quatreans,  était venu ici-même célébrer le vingtième anniversaire de sa fondation,
109,4 La Conférence générale achève ses travaux dans le temps qu'elle s'était imparti.
39  Nous le devons, Monsieur le Président, au dévouement et à la sagesse avec lesquels vous  avez présidé nos débats, Comme les orateurs qui m'ont précédé, je suis heureux de vous  en exprimer, ainsi qu'aux membres du Bureau de la Conférence qui vous ont prêté dans  ces circonstances un concours particulièrement apprécié, notre reconnaissance, Nous le  devons également à la conscience et à la science dont ont fait preuve les présidents et  membres des bureaux, des comités, commissions, sous-comrmissions, groupes de travail;  à eux tous, comme au Président du Conseil exécutif, je veux dire nos remerciements pour  la manière dont ils ont, dans des conditions parfois difficiles, permis de préparer des dé-  cisions qui vont régir les deux prochaines années de l'existence de l'Unesco, Je veux natu-  rellement englober aussi dans cet hommage M. le Directeur général et ses collaborateurs  - en particulier M, Malcolm Adiseshiah et M, Hanna Saba dont nous déplorons qu'ils aient  pour la dernière fois participé à nos débats et qui méritent si pleinement le chaleureux té-  moignage de gratitude qui leur a été adressé tout à l'heure - ainsi que les membres du Se-  crétariat qui, à tous les échelons, ont oeuvré pour rendre plus aisée notre tâche : sans  eux, nous n'aurions pu réaliser ce que nous avons fait,
109,5 La seizième session de la Conférence générale marquera, nous l'espérons, une  étape dans le destin de l'Unesco, La structure du Secrétariat va se modifier, ses tâches  vont s'élargir et même se renouveler, notamment dans des domaines aussi importants que  la culture, la jeunesse, les rapports de l'homme et de la biosphère, ou d'autres grands  projets de coopération scientifique, Un plan à long terme a été élaboré et adopté, Ce ne  sont là que les manifestations d'un phénomène d'adaptation permanente à l'évolution du  monde où nous vivons, et nous ne pouvons que nous en réjouir profondément, 11 nous faut  néanmoins prendre garde de ne point nous écarter des grands principes de la Charte sur  laquelle repose l'existence de l'Unesco, Il nous faut veiller à éviter tout péché contre  l'esprit, tout entraînement aussi qui conduire it notre Organisation hors des chemins qu'elle  s'est elle-même tracés, Nous sommes convaincus qu'une organisation comme la nôtre per-  drait sa raison d'être si elle perdait la claire vision de ses objectifs essentiels et de ses  grandes tâches - ce qui ne doit pas l'empêcher, bien entendu, de poursuivre obstinément  la réalisation de son noble idéal humain, De cela, nous sommes tous responsables, nous  les Etats membres, et vous-même, Monsieur le Directeur général, que votre lucidité,  votre autorité et votre rigueur d'esprit prédisposent naturellement à être notre conscience,
109,6 Nos voeux accompagnent tous ceux d'entre vous qui vont maintenant regagner leurs  foyers : nous espérons qu'ils garderont de cette Conférence le souvenir d'un moment privi-  légié dans la grande oeuvre de compréhension humaine et de rapprochement des peuples à  laquelle l'Unesco s'est consacrée depuis sa création, Mon pays se réjouit d'avoir pu, cette  fois encore, y contribuer dans une modeste mesure.
(110.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Maillard.
(110, 2) I call upon the Vice-Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr. Grohman,
111.1 Mr, GROHMAN (Czechoslovakia) Vice-Chairman of the Executive Board:  Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, fellow delegates, inthe absence of the Chair-  man of the Executive Board, who had to leave us in order tomeet along-standing commit-  ment, | have the pleasure to speak on behalf of the Executive Board and to associate that  constitutional organ with the ceremony of closure of this session of our Conference, I  believe I can say that all my colleagues on the Board, like myself, have noted with great  satisfaction the interest which the General Conference has shown in the work of the Exe-  cutive Board, and the support and approval it has been accorded. 1 wish therefore to  thank the General Conference for the attention with which it has considered cur observa-  tions and recommendations.
111.2 This is the occasion for me to pay tribute to the members who are leaving the Board,  and especially to our distinguished Chairman, Ambassador Pompei. Whatever regret they  may have in parting from us, they leave with us not only an excellent memory but also much  of the experience they had acquired, which they have transmitted to those junior to them  on the Board.
111.3 It is with great pleasure that on behalf of the Board and on my own behalf,I pay  tribute to you, Mr. President of the General Conference, for the manner in which you  have presided over this session and, in spite of the diificulties encountered, led it  successfully to the end of its work. During the last five weeks you have put yourself  entirely at the service of the General Conference with all your intelligence, your deep  knowledge of the substance as well as the mechanisms and rules of our Organization.  The natural authority and the great impartiality that you have shown throughout have  demonstrated once more, in the most brilliant manner, that you are a Great Unescan,  inspired by a deep faith in the ideals of the Organization and in the réle it is called upon  to play in today's world, for the common good of all our countries.
111,4 During this session the General Conference has drawn up plans for an important  programme concerning man and his environment. For us, delegates and Board members,  our environment has not been limited to the Secretariat and its huge buildings, of glass,  concrete and aluminium, for we have been able - to the extent that we had some leisure  time, which was very limited indeed - to strengthen the links which unite us to Paris, this  admirable city, and to our host country, France. To its government and to the French  people, I should like to renew the expression of our gratitude for their welcome and hos-  pitality. At the moment when we are about to disperse, when many of us are returning  to our own countries in order to pursue, I hope very concretely and efficiently, Unesco's  action, I would like, while repeating our thanks to the Director-General and his staff, to  tell him that we look forward with pleasure to meeting him next Monday in the Board, to  enter with him on the new tasks we shall be sharing during the next two years. In fact,  it is on the joint efforts of the Director-General and the Board that will depend the pre-  paration, in its different aspects, of the seventeenth session, which will bring together  again here, in Unesco House, delegations from all Member States.
111.5 Fellow delegates, I would like to wish you all a very pleasant voyage home andthe  greatest success in your work, in your activities for the common cause of Unesco, for  the common cause of peace and understanding among nations.
(112.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Grohman.
(112.2) I call upon the Director-General,
113,1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL, -  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, voici donc venue l'heure ultime des  adieux et, si blasés qu'ait pu nous rendre notre habitude des rencontres et des départs, je  suis sûr que, si peu que nous l'admettions, chacun de nous sent flotter dans cette salle  une certaine mélancolie qui se mêle aux brumes de novembre,
113,2 Et c'est vrai : demain, après-demain ou les jours suivants, la plupart d'entre vous  - exception faite, bien entendu, des membres du Conseil exécutif - vont se disperser, Après  tant de jours, de nuits et de semaines d'intenses confrontations, voire d'affrontements, vous  allez vous répandre sur les routes du ciel, de la terre et de la mer, Et, quand chacun de
39  vous aura retrouvé sa patrie, son pays, ses amis, ses occupations, sa famille, peut-étre  aurez-vous le sentiment que quelque chose qui s'était noué et développé s'est dissous, Mais  vous savez bien que ce n'est pas vrai, que ce qui s'est fait ici ne se dissoudra pas, Je ne  voudrais pas abuser de métaphores, mais l'heure nocturne à laquelle se clôt notre session  m'incite à reprendre l'image que M, le chef de la délégation iranienne a évoquée en com-  parant l'Unesco à l'oiseau de Minerve, la chouette,,, C'est Kant, je crois, qui disait que  l'heure où s'envole la chouette est celle du crépuscule, Peut-être faut-il voir une colnei-  dence significative dans le fait que c'est à cette heure-là que vous allez vous séparer :  sans doute est-ce aussi l'heure où la chouette Unesco va prendre son vol,
113.3 Comme l'a rappelé le distingué Président du Conseil exécutif, dès lundi, les pro-  blèmes de mise en oeuvre du programme - ou du moins certains d'entre eux - vont être  examinés par le Conseil exécutif, Quant au Secrétariat, son activité, vous le savez, se  poursuit toujours sans aucune solution de continuité, qu'il s'agisse de préparer vos travaux,  comme il l'a fait lors de la dernière session du Conseil exécutif, de donner effet à vos ré-  solutions ou de préparer le programme de l'exercice à venir,
113.4 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, il est à la fois trop tôt et trop tard  pour dresser le bilan de cette seizième session et je ne le tenterai pas, Il esttrop tôt parce  que nous sommes encore trop près de l'événement et que nous avons besoin d'un certain  recul pour pouvoir, en replaçant dans leurs justes perspectives les décisions qui ont été  prises, en dégager la vraie signification ; et il est trop tard, parce que vous avez, depuis  quarante-huit heures, adopté tant de résolutions que je risquerais, en voulant en faire la syn-  thèse, d'aboutir à des redites, Les orateurs qui se sont succédé à cette tribune pour parler,  au nom de groupes déterminés, nous ont d'ailleurs déjà présenté des synthèses partielles  qui, bien qu'elles reflètent essentiellement les préoccupations de telle ou telle région,  peuvent nous fournir les éléments d'une synthèse globale que chacun d'entre nous s'effor-  cera de faire à loisir d'ici quelques jours ou quelques semaines,
113.5 Je voudrais simplement dire, sans faire aucun bilan, que cette session de la Confé-  rence générale nous aura certainement permis à tous de mesurer l'ampleur et là complexité  des tâches, La variété des points inscrits à votre ordre du jour et les résolutions aussi nom-  breuses qu'importantes qui ont été adoptées sur ces points nous montrens que l'Unesco est  incontestablement une grande entreprise, Je ne dis pas "une grande réalisation", caril fau-  drait, pour employer ces termes, avoir accompli cet effort critique dont je pense qu'il ne  peut pas être fait dès maintenant ; mais je dis "une grande entreprise'' ; car, même s'il y  avait d'inévitables inégalités d'importance et d'intérêt entre les différents points de votre  ordre du jour, ce n'est pas sur de petites choses qu'ont porté vos discussions ; etl'ensemble  des questions dont vous avez traité est véritablement impressionnant.
113,6 Une autre constatation s'impose : le dynamisme de l'Unesco n'est pas épuisé, bien  loin de là, Il est actuellement encore en piein essor, J'ai évoqué, dans l'alloeution que je  vous ai adressée au début de vos travaux, ce dynamisme éthique qui se traduit pour l'Unesco  par la volonté d'être à l'avant-garde de l'évolution du droit, ce qui lui pose le problème de  la distance à laquelle elle doit se tenir du droit positif, L'Unesco, il faut bien le comprendre,  n'existe que si elle possède ce dynamisme éthique, avec tous les risques que cela comporte,  et ces risques sont considérables ! C'est une organisation qui cherche des voles nouvelles  vers des valeurs qui s'inventent, tout en essayant de trouver un lien de continuité entre ces  valeurs nouvelles, ces visions changeantes, et l'acquis de la civilisation, cetacquis à l'écart  duquel ne peut certes pas se placer une organisation qui, comme la nôtre, respecte profon-  dément le passé, Cette orientation, vous en avez certainement pris conscience au cours des  débats assurément délicats qui se sont déroulés ici et dans lesquels il ne pouvait pas - pré-  cisément à cause de cette projection vers l'avenir - y avoir unanimité ; et vous avez aussi  mesuré, je l'espère, les risques qui en résultent, Il est par exemple apparu, aun moment  qui demeure certainement présent dans toutes les mémoires, qu'entre le système de coopé-  ration intellectuelle qui constitue la base instrumentale de l'action de l'Unesco et cette vo-  lonté éthique qui est la raison d'être de notre Organisation il pouvait y avoir des tensions  et des contradictions redoutables, Le Conseil exécutif et le Secrétariat s'efforcéront d'exé-
39  cuter votre volonté dans cette perspactive de dynamisme éthique dont je viens de parler et  avec le souci de réduire le plus pos. thle, voire d'éliminer les risques que cela comporte,  Je ne sais pas dans quelle mesure ils y parviendront, mais tel est en tout cas l'esprit qui  les animera, comme il m'animera moi-même,
113.7 Troisième constatation que tout le monde a faite : on a incontestablement vu se ma-  nifester au cours de cette seizième session de la Conférence générale une nette volonté de  rénovation dans la continuité, Cela montre à la fois que, malgré sa jeunesse, l'Unesco a  acquis un certain degré de maturité, voire de sagesse ; cela montre aussi qu'elle désire  se transformer, qu'il y a en elle un souci d'amélioration, un souci de découvrir les chan-  gements nécessaires qui, dans son extraordinaire simplicité, est source de satisfaction  et d'espoir, Je suis très heureux que cela se soit manifesté de manière éclatante au mo-  ment où vous vous êtes réunis à la fois sous le signe de l'Année internationale (qui, comme  beaucoup d'orateurs l'ont dit, a fait surtout apparaître le désir et le besoin d'une rénova-  tion radicale de l'éducation) et sous celui de cette Deuxième Décennie du développement qui  devrait permettre au Tiers Monde de trouver une compensation aux déceptions que lui a  apportées la première,
113,8 Voilà, Monsieur le Président, tout ce que je voulais dire sur les impressions que  j'ai retirées de cette Conférence dont nous n'aurons pas de sitôt totalement épuisé la signi-  fication, Et pour terminer, il me reste maintenant à exprimer mes remerciements aussi  sincères que variés, Tout d'abord, je veux dire ma gratitude pour les remerciements qui  ont été adressés au Secrétariat par différentes délégations et qui, je crois, sont mérités,  En effet, c'est un très gros effort pour le Secrétariat que de préparer et de servir une con-  férence aussi considérable que celle-ci tout en continuant à assurer l'exécution du pro-  gramme, Car l'exécution du programme n'a pas cessé : on n'a pas fermé l'Unesco pour  ouvrir la Conférence générale, L'Unesco n'a jamais chômé : qu'il s'agisse de répondre aux  voeux de l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies dont j'ai reçu quotidiennement des télé-  grammes visant à obtenir que la position de l'Unesco soit précisée sur un certain nombre  de graves problèmes figurant à l'ordre du jour de cette assemblée ou qu'il s'agisse de l'ac-  tion sur le terrain, notre travail s'est poursuivi à travers tous les continents, sous tous les  climats, à travers les fuseaux-horaires et les différences de saisons pendant tout le temps  qu'a siégé la Conférence, Nous n'avons jamais cessé d'avoir des problèmes à résoudre et  le Secrétariat a continué, au Siège, à faire face aux demandes dont il n'a jamais cessé  d'être assailli,
113,9 Vous avez, Mesdames, Messieurs, rendu à deux des plus éminents fonctionnaires  du Secrétariat un hommage pleinement mérité et qui nous a tous remplis de fierté, non seu-  lement parce que ces deux fonctionnaires sont pour nous des amis de longue date, des com-  pagnons qui ont été depuis des années et des années à nos côtés, mais encore parce que nous  avons senti qu'à cet hommage se joignait chez vous la reconnaissance de la dignité de la  fonction internationale, ce qui nous a profondément touchés, En disant cela, j'exprime j'en  suis sûr, les sentiments de tous mes collègues, de ceux qui sont ici et de ceux qui n'y sont  pas, de ceux que vous voyez et ceux qui sont invisibles dans les profondeurs de cette maison,
113,10 J'ai aussi été très touché de voir combien vous avez été sensibles au souci que tous  les fonctionnaires du Secrétariat, si humbles soient-ils, ont eu pendant ces cinq semaines  de vous servir avec dévouement, efficacité et discrétion, Je vous suis très reconnaissant  des remerciements que vous leur avez adressés et dans lesquels ils trouveront incontesta-  blement un encouragement des plus précieux quand ils auront à déployer de nouveaux efforts,
113,11 Je voudrais maintenant formuler à mon tour un certain nombre de remerciements,  J'exprimerai d'abord ma gratitude au Conseil exécutif qui, ayant déjà siégé pendant trois  semaines avant les cinq semaines qu'a occupées votre session, va devoir maintenant encore  siéger pendant trois jours, C'est le Conseil exécutif qui a préparé vos travaux et, sila ma-  nière dont ces travaux se sont déroulés vous a donné satisfaction, c'est essentiellement à  lui que vous le devez, Le Secrétariat n'a fait, quant à lui, que donner effet au document
16 C/2, c'est-à-dire aux plans élaborés par le Conseil exécutif pour l'organisation de vos
39  travaux, Vous avez également pu sentir au cours de cette session la présence active des  différents membres du Conseil ; et, pour ce qui est de l'exécution de vos décisions, il y a  là une garantie de continuité.
113,12 Je tiens d'autre part à remercier les délégations de leur extrême courtoisie et de  l'intérêt qu'elles ont manifesté, non seulement à l'égard des problèmes de l'Organisation,  mais aussi à l'égard des tâches et des conditions de travail du Secrétariat, Je dirai, par  exemple, que le soin avec lequel ont été débattus à la Commission administrative divers  problèmes intéressant de très près le personnel a été incontestablement pour nous une  source de grande satisfaction, De même, la manière dont vous avez écouté les spécialistes  du programme - tant à la Commission du programme que dans les autres organes de la  Conférence - montre que, même si vos vues sont parfois divergentes, il n'y a pas entre  vous de barrières rigides.
113,13 Qu'il me soit permis d'exprimer ici ma reconnaissance aux présidents des divers  organes de la Conférence, notamment aux présidents de la Commission du programme et  de la Commission administrative, auxquels a incombé une tâche particulièrement lourde,
113,14 Qu'il me soit enfin permis de joindre ma voix à tous ceux qui ont exprimé leur gra-  titude au président Dell'Oro Maini et qui ont fait son éloge, Ayant presque constamment  siégé à ses côtés à cette tribune, haute falaise d'où j'ai pu voir les courants et les contre-  courants qui animaient cette assemblée, mer facilement troublée, je puis certifier qu'il a  conduit vos travaux avec une efficacité parfaite jointe à une courtoisie et à une impartialité  absolument manifestes, Grande est mon admiration pour cet homme de droit et de culture,  pour cet humaniste qui d'instinct trouve des solutions à vos problèmes et qui, tout en vous  laissant vous exprimer dans la plus grande liberté, a su vous donner le sentiment de l'unité  de l'Unesco,
113,15 Monsieur le Président, je crois que l'Unesco sort renforcée de cette Conférence,  Cela ne veut pas dire que tous les problèmes aient été résolus, loin de là, Nous allons en  retrouver beaucoup, et cela dès demain ; car, quelque soin que nous ayons mis à établir un  programme, l'actualité va sans aucun doute nous réserver des surprises qui ne seront pas  toutes agréables. Le programme que vous venez d'adopter, c'est, Mesdames, Messieurs,  un vaisseau bien gréé, mais c'est un vaisseau qui va affronter la haute mer et, pour le mener  au port, nous aurons sans cesse besoin de votre confiance et de votre compréhension ; nous  aurons besoin aussi, je n'hésite pas à le dire, de votre indulgence, Je sais que nous pou-  vons compter sur tout cela, D'avance je vous en remercie et je puis, de mon côté, vous  assurer du dévouement complet et de la loyauté parfaite avec laquelle le Secrétariat que j'ai  l'honneur de diriger s'efforcera d'exécuter vos décisions,
(114.1) The PRESIDENT (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr, Vice-Chairman of the Board, Mr. Director-General, fellow delegatet, ladies and gen-  tlemen, never have I had a more difficult task. First of all, because I must tr, to take upon my  humble shoulders a weight of praize beyond what 1 deserve, and because if anything has left on  me a truly unforgettable impression it is the years spent by me in this Organization, and in par-  ticular my presence on this platform, which I owe to your generosity and trust. Nor is it easy  for me to echo, without being unduly repetitive, the other tributes that have already been yaid and  acknowledged, Nevertheless, in endorsing the tributes of the various groups whose representa-  tives have just spoken, I hope that I mey be regarded as voicingthe enthusiastic assent of the Con-  ference as a whole. How can 1 fail to express, in my turn, my thanks to the distinguished mem-  bers of the General Committee formed from the Vice-Presidents? How can I fail to echo your  thanks to the Chairman of the Programme Commission, Dr. Sarrqf, to the Chairman of the Ad-  ministrative Committee, Mr. Hela, and to the Chairmen of the four Special Committees? How  can I fail to pay my sincere tribute to Mr. Pompei - unfortunately absent today - for the brilliant  manner in which he has presided over the Executive Board, or to convey my thanks to the Board  as a whole through its Vice-Chairman, Mr. Grohman? How can I fail to expressto the Director-  General once again (I have done it so often that it is not easy for me to say anything new) all our  affection and admiration for him and for all he has done? I must add, at this moment, afterlis-  tening to his remarks, that the sentiments he inspires are not only those of a well-deserved af-  fection and admiration, but also, to an extent he cannot realize, those of trust, loyal collabora-  tion and devotion. That is the secret of our effectiveness; a co-ordination between the various  organs that is not merely institutional but is based on the personal quality of their members and  the respect which first-class leadership is entitled to command in the field of international co-  operation. This gathering is a forum for the exchange of ideas and the emergence of initiatives;  there is a spirit of emulation; experiences are compared. I shall say nothing, for it has already  been said, about the importance of the resolutions adopted at this Conference - especially those  of a long-term character - which make it a landmark in the history of Unesco. The Conference  has been seeking to evolve a long-term approach for some years past, and it is at the present  session that such an approach has begun to take concrete form, It is an approach that both de-  mands a high degree of interdisciplinarity throughout the programme and makes it possible for  the supporting machinery to function at its best. The Conference, in which we.learn to know and  appreciate one another, is not alone in its responsibility: beyond these walls an army of special-  ists, who are personally unknown to us although we are well aware of their merits, labours day  after day on lines determined by our resolutions. Occasionally - it is a somewhat disconcerting  experience - I encounter some official whose name, function and rank are unknown to me (rather  like the familiar volces of the interpreters which we take in with our ears without identifying their  owners) but in the depth of whose eyes I know that there may well burn a greater determination  than we perhaps realize to co-operate in implementing the ideals which we proclaim tothe world,  and which the world attributes exclusively to our high-level participation in these Conferences.
(114.2) To all the members of this anonymous army I express our sincere thanks,
(114.3) Allow me, while I am at this juncture, to express my very sincere thanks to our Secre-  tary, Mr. Manuel Jiménez, and his colleagues, naturally without forgetting Mr. Barnes, who for  many months has been silently preparing the success of our discussions, Iam sure that my friend.  Jiménez will be happy to share this tribute with his predecessor.
(114.4) Lastly, I want to say how grateful we are to France, whose enduring culture permeates  the entire world, for the welcome she has extended to us. The silent, profound and moving tri-  bute paid to her in the great bereavement that has befallen her binds us together still more closely.
(114.5) Gentlemen, over the space of a few years I have seen, as you have, the development of  this Organization and the increasing, systematic concentration of its activities, It has grown in-  to a great spiritual adventure. The ethical direction it has chosen indicates that our Organiza-  tion is growing aware of its responsibilities, What we preach for men, whether in the industri-  alized or the developing countries - that is, the acquisition of an awareness of their rights which  will change them into agents of their individual destinias - we also seek to practise ourselves,  as responsible agents in that enterprise. We must not be mere spectators of a change, of that  profound transformation of the contemporary world; still less the silent victims of an irresistible  wave, but (ie initiators, the wielders of a determination that will master that transformation and  channel it in a direction consistent with the dignity of Man and withthe consciousness of his rights.  Seen from this angle, it may be that the present Conference will go down in the history of Unesco  as marking the affirmation of that innovating, original and constructive force,
(114. 6) In conclusion, gentlemen, I see Unesco as a tree with an abundance of evergreen leaves  which, as it grows, thrusts down its roots into contemporary reality, from which it derives its  abiding strength and vigour, And I see this Conference, which takes place every two years, as  the springtime of that tree, renewing its energies, making it flower and bear fruit for the benefit  of all mankind. It is very comforting to seek the protection of its shade, to proclaim in that spring-  time, and despite the November fogs referred to by the Director-General, the everlasting nature  of our ideals, the determination to labour on, to renew not only our programmes but our thinking  as well, so that it may be vigilant and self-critical, Let us, thus inspired, bear everywherethe  banner of that great ideal. It is with this prayer that I have the privilege of closing the sixteenth  session of the General Conference of Unesco.
(114.7) The meeting is at an end, and 1 declare the sixteenth session of the General Conference  to be closed,  The meeting rose at 9.15 p.m.  La séance est levée à 21h, 15,  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 21,15,