Eleventh plenary meeting
17 October 1970 at 10.10 a.m.  President: Mr. DELL' ORO MAINI ( Argentina)  Onzième séance plénière
17 octobre 1970, à 10 h, 10  Président : M. DELL'ORO MAINI (Argentine)  Undécima sesiôn plenaria
5,26 dy ols] asl) duo  + *  | SEY 1 LI ve JsŸ1 Opi) mt 33S VY  (ody oil 595 1005/ andl opus Jl  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)/ DEBAT DE POLITIQUE (suite )/ DEBATE SOBRE  POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién)/OBCY XIIEHHE BONPOCOB OBHIEH# NOJIHTHKH  (npononxenune)/ is ladl inl itil, Glitsol
(1.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I déclare the meeting open.
(1.2) 1am happy to see that Mr. Grohman, Vice-Chairman of the Executive Board, is with us  today. -
(1.3) I call on Mr. Emmerich, Observer for the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance.
2.1 T-n 3.O9OMMEPHX (CoBeT 5KOHOMHYeCKOH B3aHMONOMOIIH):  YsaxaeMsH r~H llpencenartens, ypaxaemsie AaMb H r-fa. PaspeuxHTe MHe OT HMeHH Co-  Bera 3KOHOMHYECKOÏ B3IAHMONOMOIH NPHBETCTBOBaATh YYACTHHKOB NeCTHAAUATOR ceccHu Iele-  parnbHoïñ Kondepenuun WHECKO H BHIpa3HTb yBepeHHOCTb, YTo ee pafora GyRer coleiicTBo-  BATb JajbHelilleMy pasBHTHIO COTpyAHHUECTBA MOXAY CTPAIlIAMH B OGÉNACTH OSpasoBaHHA, Hay-  KH H KÿJIbTYPBI, à TAKXE ely yKpel/eHHs MHPA H Y1YYLICHHA OTHOMEHHÉ MeXAY TOCYAAPCTBAMH,
2.3 Toñb3yacb cnyuaeMm, 4 XOTE/ Gp noGrarosapHTh TaKXe l'eneparbHOro AHpEKTOpa  IOHECKO, r-xa Pele Maito, 3a nw6e3noe Npurnamente COB Ha qannyo ceccHo. Mai pacie-  HHBA@M STO MPHTTALIEHHE Kak NpoJonXeHHe K pasBHTHE Ne/IOBHX KOHTAKTOB MeX/Ay cekpeTa-  pHaramxt COB 1 JOHECKO, nocko/ibky ipexcTasHresn CexperaphaTra COB Bnepnbie npHHKMA-  MN yvacTie B MNATHAAUATOÏ cCeccHun KondhepeHtnn Baueñ OpranusautH, Hamu HaMepeHHA H B  MarbHeñuiem pasBH2aTb 3TH KOHTAKTH MOATBEPXAAIOTCA yyacTHeM MNpeAcTanHTereñ Cexpera-~  puara COB B Hacvoaueñ ceccuu D'eneparbHoït konpepenunn WHECKO, a Takxe yYacTHeM B  HIOHE STOro0 roja AEANCFAIHH COBETA 93KOHOMHUYECKOÏ B3AHMONOMOIH, BO3T/IAB/IAE€MOÏ MHHH-  CTPOM NO HayKe H TexHHke T'epmancKoñ JleMokpaTitieckoit Pecny61HkH r-HOM Fpaem B KoH-  depen MHHHCTPOB eBponefickux TOCYAAPCTB-“YVILHOB OHECKO, OTBETCTBEHHEIX 32a HOJMHTH-  Ky B OGNACTH HayKH.
25 B 1969 r. CoBeT 3KOHOMHYECKOH B3AHMOMNOMOHWH OTMETH/I CROC ABAAUATH/IETHE. 3A ITOT  nepHoa rocyAapeTna-‘leHb COB yB@rHUHAH CBO HALHOHANBHEH JOXOA 6ojee YeM B UeTHpe  pasa, o6beM NpOMbIHNEHHOTO NPOH3BOACTBA - MOYTH B LIECTb pa3,H BHEMHETOproBsH o6opot -  B MATH C NONOBHHOÏ pas, !3 3TOT NepHoa rocyaAapcTBa-wiekhtl COB uipoKko NpakTrHKOBAa/H B3a-  HMHOË HCNONb3OBAHHE AOCTHXEHHIT HAYKH H TEXHHKH H MEpeFoBOoro oNbITa, OÔMEH#H/HCb OKO/O
40 ThRICHUYAMH KOMIUIEKTOB HAYYHO-TEXHHYECKHX AOKYMEHTALHH H NPOeKTHH X MATEPpHANOB, UTO  MO3BO/H/I0 HM C HAHM@HbIIHMH 3aTPpaTaMH CHI H CPEACTB YCKOPHTb PA3BHTHE 9KOHOMHKH, B  KOPpoTKHH CPOK CO3AATb pAM HOBBIX OTpAaC/HEH NPOMBIIJIEHHOCTH, MOCTPOHTh KpyrHble MpeanpH-  ATH H OCBOHTH MPOH3BOACTBO lOBBIX BHAOB MPOAYKLUHH.
2.6 ODKOHOMHYECKHE CBA3H MEXAY HALIHMH CTPAHAMH XapaKTepH3YI0TCH CDOEH NlaHOMEpHO-  cThlo H CTAÔHABHOCThD, IINAHOBBIÀ XapaKTep SKOHOMHUECKHX cBA3deil obecneydBaeTcs, npexne  BCero, MeXAyHapoAHoil KoopaHHauneïñ HapoAHOXO3ARCTBEHHBIX NJIaHOB, KOTOPAH HB/HETCA  OCHOBHBIM METOAOM AeATEeNBHCCT! COBETA 3KOHOMHYECKOH B3aHMONOMOUH,
2.7 B HacTOSUIHH MOMEHT CTpPaHbl COLUHANHCTHYECKOrO COAPYXECTBA ycnemHo 3asepumanTt  BBIMONHEHHE CBOHX MATH/IETHHX N/IaHOB HA 1966-1970 rr., CKOOpAHHHPOBAHHbIX KaK B ABYCTO-  pOHHEM, TaK H B MHOTOCTOPOHHEM MopHAaKe B opraHax COB, H B 3TH MOCHÉAHHKE MECHIbI TOAA
2.8 TIlpH KoopaHHaUMH HApoAHOXO3SHHCTBEHHBIX MIAHOB BAXHOE 3HAVeHHE YAe/IeHO KOOpAHHAa-  HH HAYYHO-TEXHHUECKHX HCC/EJOBAHHÉ. CpeMH HAYYHEIX MPOÔNEM, KOTOPHE GyAYT peulaTbca  COBMECTHBIMH yCHJHAMH, MOXHO HA3BATb TaKie, KaK MOBHIIEHHE (HN eBOH LIEHHOCTH cyue-  CTBYVIHX H CO3AAHHE HOBHX BHAOB BbICOKOKAUYECTBEHHHIX NPOAYKTOB NHTAHHA; NpoBeeHHe  HCC/H©AOBAHHÀ B 06/1aCTH OPrAHHSALIHOHHOTO YNPpAB/NECHHA, KHÔEPHETHKH H HCCHCAOBAHHA ONE-  paunxi H YesbA pan APYTHX BAXHEIX MNPOÔNEM.
2.9 Ha HacTosmeM sTane Hamero COTpyAHHYECTBA oco6oe 3HaueHHe Mb NpHAaeM BONPOCAM  npOrHO3HPOBaHHA, B 4aCTHOCTH B ob6nacTh HaykH. IocyAapcTBa - 4ieHsl COB H ero opraHs  yxe OCYIeCTBHN PSA NPOTHO3OB B OTAC/BHEX 06/acTAX SKOIOMHKH H HAME@YAIOT OCYMECTBAHTB  B G1Hxañmee BpeMs MHPOKYI0 NporpaMMy Mo NPOTHO3KPOBAHII0, B TOM YHC/Ie B TaKHX obna-  cTax, KaK aBTOMAaTH3HPOBAHHAA CHCTEMA yNpAB/EHHH, Guoxumua i Guonnxa, a TakXe B obna-  CTH PHI3HLHK HH3KHX TeMneparyp.
2,10 HMes B BuAy AanbHeñæee yray6HeHr” H coBepmeHCTBOBaHHe MEXAYHAPOAHOTO COTPYA-  HHYECTBA B OGJACTH HAYYHOÏ H TEXHHYECKOH HHPOPMAUHH, FOCYAAPCTBA - YIeHb COB peus  cosarb MexayHaporHylo CHCTeMy Hay4HoH H TEXHHYECKOH HH@OPpMAUHH. Ha ocHoBe noAroro-  BHT@/bBHBIX pa6oT, NponeAeHHbIX B opraHax COB, H Ha OCHOBE MOXNpaBHTE@1bCTBEHHOIO COF-  namenHH# cosgaH MexayHapoïHsH HeHTp HAYYHOÏ H TEXHHY©CKOÏ HHDOPMALHH, OCHOBHAA 38-  Jaya KOTOPporo - cosnanxe BrimeyxadaHHoil HHPOpMauHOHHOH CHCTEMBI.
2.11 O pa6oTax, ocymecTBIHeMbX B paMKax COB no BonpocaM HayyHoïi H TEXHHUECKOÏ HH-  dopmauun, Gun HHPOPMHPOBAN COOTBETCTBYDUHA opran OHECKO, a HMeHHo - llenrpasbHsi  KOMHTET MO HAYYEHHIO BO3MOXHOCTH CO3NAHHA MeXAyHapoïHoï cucrems! HayuHoill nH®opMa-  IH, CO3AaHHBH COBMECTHO WHECKO H MexayHapoAHblM COBeTOM HAYYHBIX col3oB.IIpeacra-  siren Cexperapuara COB npHiHMA/nH yyacTHe B YETHPEX 3ACCAAHHAX STOrO KoMuTeTa.
2.13 Iperncranurenu Cekpetapuara COB npuusani Takxe yUACTHE Ha copemanuu pabouei  rpynnbt Mo CTATHCTHKE HayKH H TEXHHKH, OpraHH30BaHHoMm Esponeñckoñ 3KoHoMHuecKoï  KomuccHeit, OOH H IOHECKO, Ha KoTopoM o6cyXJaracb BO3MOXHOCTB CO3AAHHA EAHHOÏR MH-  poBoñt CHCTEMBI CTATHCTHKH HAYYHO-HCCICAOBATEABCKOÏ H OMNBITHO-KOHCTPYKTOPOKOÏ MEATE/Nb-  HOCTH.
2,15 3a Herel NEpHOX HM@/M MECTO H pabGouHe KOHTAKTH MEXAY OTAC/BIHbIMH COTPYAHH-  KaMH cekpetrapuaToB COB H DHECKO.
2.16 Hams H r-1a. Baxueimumu COÉBITHAMH B XH3HH COBETA 9KOHOMHYECKOÏ B3AHMONOMO-  mu B 1969-1970 rr. 6bran XXIII nu XXIV ceccuu. Ha ceccHax Ob1/10 APhHATO pentenke o NMOATO-  TOBKe KOMMAEKCHOÏ, paccYMTaHHOI Ha NepcheKTHBy, NporpaMMH AajabHefimero yriyGneHus H  COBODIIEHCTBORAHHA H PASBHTHA COUHANHCTHYECKOH 9KOHOMHYECKOÏ HHTErpayHH rOCYAAPp”TB -  y1reHos COB.
2,17 KoHuenussa sToÏ NporpaMMsl HCXOAHT H3 TOTO, YTO CONHXeHHE HALHOHANBHBIX XO3HÂCTB  Ha 0603pHMBIit MNepHoA GYAeT COUETATLCH C yKpeIUVIEHHEM HX HAUHCHA/IBHOTO CyBepeHHTera H
2.18 Bo ucnosnHenHe pemexHHk ceccuit paspaGoTaHet KOHKpeTHse MepH, B YHC/IE KOTOPHIX!  COBEPHIEHCTBOBAHHE H yr/1Y6EHHE KOOPAHHAIIHH HAPONHOXOIAÜCTBEHHHX IVIAHOB, BKADUAA  chepy HayuHO-HCCHE6AOBATE@ALCKHX, MPOEKTHO-KOHCTPYKTOPCKHX paôot} COCTaB/IEHHE Hay4HO-  TeXHAYECKHX H 3KOHO) :116CKHX NMPOTHO30B; AanbHefimee pasBHTHe ad dexkrusuoli, ycroRhunsoi
11  M@XAYHApoAHOÏ CNEUHA/IH3ALHH H KOONepPHPOBAHHA NPOH3BOJACTBA, B OCOÔEHHOCTH B OTpaC/AX,  ONPeNGTANUHX TEXHHUECKHÀ Nporpecc, a Takxe pacliMpexie H yr/1y61enne COTpyAHHYECTBA  B OGNACTH HayKH K T@XHHKH MNpH CO3AAHHH M@XAYHApoaHbIX HayYHO-TEXHHYECKHX H ApyrHx  opranxsauxñ.
2.19 TI'-u MpeacexaTesrb, AAMBI H r-Aa.,OnbiT COTPYAHHYECTBA Pa3/IHYHBX FOCYAAPCTE NOKAIB-  BaeT, YTO P@3Y/bTAaTbI ero Hanbosee ap PEKTHBHh B TOM CAYUae, €C/IH OHO OCY IIECTB/IAETCA Ha OC-  HOB MNpHHIHNA YHHBEPCANbHOCTH, BHOBb MOAYEPpKHYTOro Ha X XV ceccux T'eneparbHoïñ Accambren  OOH B KauecTBe OCHOBHOTO MNpHHUHMA, KOTOPOMY JIONIXHS! CIIGAOBATb B CBOCH AeATEeNbHOCTH  oprauuaauu OOH.
2.20 B 3710} cBA3K #H AOJXEH CKA3ATh C STOÏ BH COKOA TPHOYHB, YTO NpeACTABHTE/NH Hameil  OpraHH3al[HH ¢ COXAJICHHEM YCJbIDIa/lH O TOM, YTO OAHO FOCYAapcTBOo - ‘Ven COB, a HMeHHo  T'epManckas JleMokpaTHuecKas PecnyG61HKa, KOTOpad 3aHHMaeT BaXHOE MECTO B Hay4Ho-  TOXHHYECKOM COTPYAHHYECTBE HAUHX COIHAMHCTHUECKHX CTPAH, BCE ele JiHlleHa paBHONpas-  Horo yuactus B pabore OHECKO.
2.21 B sak1bYenHe No3ponbre MHe noxenarhb ceccuit T'enoparnbHoït kondepenuu VHECKO  nanbHeñmeït ycneuHoï paGoTh i BHpPa3HTh HaZeXay, YTO ee pe3yabraTi GyAYT cnocobcrBo-  BATh CO3AAHHD BO3MOXHOCTEH JUIX MIOAOTBOPHOTO paBHONpaBHOro COTpy/HHYECTBA BCEX eB-  poneñckux rocyapeTB B OGNACTH HayKH H TEXHHKH.
(2.1) Mr. EMMERICH (Council for Mutual Economic Assistance) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr. Chairman, Ladfes and Gentlemen, allow me to convey the greetings of the Council for  Mutual Economic Assistance to this sixteenth session of the General Conference of Unesco and  to state my conviction that its work will contribute to the further development of co-operation be-  tween nations in the fields of education, science, and culture, and also to the strengthening of  peace and the improvement of relations between States.
(2.2) May I also congratulate you, Mr. Dell'Oro Maini, on your unanimous election to the post  of President of this session and wish you success in the discharge of your honourable duties.
(2.3) I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Director-General of Unesco, Mr, René  Maheu, for having kindly invited CMEA to this session. We regard this invitation as a continua-  tion and development of the working contacts between the Secretariats of CMEA and Unesco, since  representatives of the CMEA Secretariat first took part in the work of the General Conference of  your Organization at its fifteenth session. Our intention to go on developing these contactsisre-  affirmed by our participation in the present session, and by the participation, in June of this year,  of a CMEA delegation, headed by the Minister of Science and Technology of the German Demo-  cratic Republic, Mr. Prey, in the Conference of Ministers of European Member States respon-  sible for Science Policy.
(2.4) The delegation of CMEA observers considers it its duty to acquaint this session with the  important events which have occurred in the life of our Organization in the last two years, and  also to say something about certain aspects of its present work which are closely allied in their  nature with the work of Unesco.
(2.5) In 1969, the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance celebrated its twentieth anniversary.  During this period, the national income of its Member States increased by a factor of more than
4, the volume of their industrial output by a factor of nearly 6 and that of their foreign trade by  “a factor of 5.5. Information on scientific and technological breakthroughs and advanced working  methods was freely shared, some 40,000 complete sets of scientific and technical docun.entation  or designs were exchanged, and as a result CMEA Member States were able to accelerate the  development of their economies with minimum expenditure of efforts and resources and, within  the space of a few years, to build up a number of new branches of industry, construct major en-  terprises and begin the output of several new types of product.
(2.6) One of the characteristics of the economic relationships between our countries {a that they  are planned and stable. The planning is based essentially on the international co-ordination of  economic plans, which is the basic method by which the Council works.
(2.7) The countries of the Socialist family are at present successfully completing the fulfilment  of their five-year plans for 1966-1970, which were co-ordinated bilaterally and multilaterally  within CMEA, and during these last months of the year are puiting the finishing touches to work  on the co-ordination of their economic plans for the forthcoming five-year period 1971-1975.  This work began in 1968 and has been carried out in two stages, to take account of both bilateral  and multilateral negotiations.  {2.8) In the overall co-ordination of economic plans, great importance is attached to the co-  ordination of scientific and technical research. Among the research tasks on which we are making  a concerted attack, 1 may mention such problers an that of increasing the nutritive value of ex-  isting foodstuffs and the creation of new, high-quality foodstuffs; management, cybernetice and  operational research; and many other important questions,
(2.9) We attach particular importance at the present stage of our co-operation to forecasting,  particularly in science. The Member States and organs of CMEA have already carried out a  number of forecasts in various economic fields and are planning to carry out a large-scale pro-  gramme of forecasting in the near future in such fields as automated control systems, biochemistry  and bionics, and cryogenics.
(2.10) The Member States of CMEA have decided to set up an International System of Scientific  and Technical Information, with a view to intensifying and improving international co-operation  in this field, On the basis of preparatory work carried out in the organs of CMEA and of an in-  tergovernmental agreement, an International Centre for Scientific and Technical Informationhas  been set up for the essential purpose of creating such a system,
(2.11) Information on the work done ui #.is field by CMEA has been passed on to the relevant  Unesco body, namely the Central Committee of the Unesco/ICSU feasibility study for the estab-  lishment of a World Science Information System. Representatives of the Secretariat of CMEA  took part in the four sessions of this Committee. '
(2.12) As a continuation of these working contacts, we have a mutual agreement for participa-  tion by a representative of the Secretariat of Unesco in the seventeenth session of the Permanent  Working Group on Scientific and Technical Information, which is meeting in Warsaw this Octoher,
(2.13) Representatives of the CMEA Secretariat also took part in the meeting of the Working  Group on Scientific and Technical Statistics, organized by the Economic Commission for Europe,  the United Nations and Unesco, at which the possibility was discussed of creating a single world-  wide system of statistics for scientific research and experimental design work.
(2.14) At the same time, the CMEA Permanent Commission on the Co-ordination of Scientific  and Technical Research is elaborating a unified system of comparable indicators concerning scien-  tific research work, and also the scientific and technical collaboration of CMEA Member States,  which will, as far as possible, include indicators comparable with those of Unesco.
(2.15) In the period that has elapsed there have also been working contacts between individual  officials of the Secretariats of CMEA and Unesco. R
(2.16) Extremely important events in the life of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance in
1969-1970 were its 23rd and 24th sessions. At those sessions it was decided to prepare a com-  prehensive, forward-looking programme for the further extension, improvement and develop-  ment of the socialist economic integration of CMEA Member States.  {2.17) The basic idea of this programme is that the drawingtogether of national economies during  the period in question will be combined with the strengthening of their netional sovereignty and  economic independence. Each of the countries retains and develops its system of planning and  budgeting, its currency and its system of economic management, These systems, however, which  are based on unified general principles, will operate in close co-ordination, uniting the efforts  of the various countries in the decisive branches of the economy.
(2.18) In pursuance of the decisions taken at those sessions, practical measures were drawnup,  including: improvement and intensification of the co-ordination of national economic plans, taking  in the sphere of scientific research and development; preparation of scientific, technical and  economic forecasts; further development of effective, consistent international specialization and  co-ordination of production, particularly in branches of decisive importance for technical pro- .  gress; and the broadening and intensification of scientific and technical co-operation in the es-  tablishinent of international scientific, technical and other organizations.
(2.19) Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen, the experience of various countries shows that  co-uperation is most effective when based on the principle of universality, which was reaffirmed  at the XXVth session of the United Nations General Assembly as a basic principle which should  be adhered to by organizations of the United Nations system: in their work.
(2.20) In this connexion I have to state from this high tribune that the representatives of our or-  ganization have heard with regret that one Member State of CMEA, the German Democratic Re-  public, which occupies an important place in the scientific end technical co-operation of our  Socialist countries, is still deprived of the right to full and equal participation in the work of  Unesco.
(2.21) In conclusion, I should like to wish this session of the General Conference further success  in its work and to express the hope that its results will help to provide opportunities for fruitful,  equitable co-operation between all European States in the field of science and technology.
(3.) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank Mr Emmerich for his speech. I call on Mr. Mfinanga, head of the delegation of the  United Republic of Tanzania.
4.1 Mr. MFINANGA ( Tanzania):  Mr. President, honourable delcrates, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to join  my honourable colleagues who have spoken before me in congratulating you, Sir, upon  your election to this very high office in ‘our Organization. On this occasion, 25 years  after the birth of the United Nations, it is with a great sense of purpose and mission that  we in this Specialized Agency are assembled here for the sixteenth session of our General  Conference, because the achievements and failures of the United Nations are of as much  concern to us as they are to that Organization.
4.2 On Monday the Chairman of the Executive Board and the Director-General presented  to this Conference the draft long-term outline plan for 1971-1976, document 16 C/4. In  view of its importance my delegation's policy statement will bear mainly on that plan,  within the framework of the topics recommended by the Executive Board. Our represen-  tatives in the appropriate commissions will express our position in respect to the 1971-
4.3 In document 16 C/4 the Director-General has, at considerable length, justified his  proposed plan of activities, showing how it follows .from the prdgramme of activities  already in operation. We consider this as essentially a good plan. -We feel, however,  that it would have been more complete if the biennial programmes had, either at the  beginning or at the end of the document, been summarized in tabular form. This would  have made possible quick cross-reference and comparison of projections of plans of  activities from one biennium to another.
4.4 Turning now more specifically to the programme sectors, I would like to say that we  are in general agreement with the main direction of the programmes in education. The  XXXIInd session of the International Conference on Public Education made definitive obser-  vations and recommendations on education that include prospects, social and economic  objectives, structures, contents, teacher training, research and the technology of educa-  tion; these should constitute an integral part of the plan's implementation. On the social  objectives of education the Conference made a reference to ethical and spiritual values.  It is unfortunate that the Conference took place at such a time that its recommendations  were not available during the preparation of the 1971-1972 Draft Programme and Budget,
4,5 This could also be said to be true of the report on the Intergovernmental Conference  on Institutional, Administrative and Financial Aspects of Cultural Policies, held in Venice  in August and September, whose recommendations must find a place in the programmes  during the next six years. We note from paragraphs 78 and 79 of the long-term plan,  document 16 C/4, that better programming of intergovernmental conferences will avoid  such a situation in future,
4.6 We have also noted that there is a tendency in our programmes to talk of the demo-  cratization of education only in respect of youth, women and girls. We feel that this is  a narrow approach and that the concept should include entire life-long education pro-  grammes for adult man. If democratization of education is to be adequately built into  adult education and literacy programmes, it is my view that the long-term effect would  go a long way towards creating stable societies.
4.7 One serious difficulty in science policy planning, more particularly in Member  States with inadequate science policy planning machinery, is probably the rapid develop-  ment of science itself. Even in a developing country like ours, for example, it is almost  impossible to conceive future scientific programmes without taking into account the long-  term effects of the inventions of the modern space age. This is something that we have  to take seriously into account in our science planning policy.
4.8 li is oted that there is to be a new programme allowing for reflection on science in  modern society. We agree that science must be popularized and that one of the best ways  to do so is by laying stress on the benefits man has already gained from scientific develop-  ment. What we would wish to see, and this we consider would be the best approach in a  developing society, is Liat these popularization programmes find their way right down into  literacy projects as well, An undergraduate in a university is already fully conversant  with what science can do for him, but an illiterate adult is not, and to make sure that  Unesco's science programmes do make their impact, means of reaching this class of the  community must be found.
4.9 I now refer briefly to international programme activities in the natural sciences.  Beginning with the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission, and followed by the  International Hydrological Decade and now Man and the Biosphere, it seems lo us strange  that these projects should not qualify for assistance under the United Nations Development  Programme, on the ground, it is argued, that they are not development projects. This  is not in our view an objective approach to the issue. We have said before, and we repeat  now, that these international programmes impose a burden on the resources of Member  States, while the results of their successful implementation are of benefit to all mankind.  We would therefore recommend that they be considered for UNDP assistance, We appre-  ciate that over the years the United Nations Development Programme has liberalized its  assistance. In our own zountry we have had experience of the widening of the scope of  Unesco/UNDP Special Fund assistance over the past six years.
4,10 I would like at this stage to say something very briefly about two UNDP projects  which are having an impact on the social and economic development of my country. These  are the planning of secondary school science teacher-training and the work-oriented adult  literacy projects. The project for the training of secondary-school science teachers,  which was started in 1965, has proved very successful. In 1965 there were only a hand-  ful of Tanzanian graduate science teachers engaged in our secondary schools. But in  March of this year, as a result of the progress and success of the project, we had almost  enough Tanzanian science teachers at the secondary level. Previous to that we had to  seek the assistance of very many expatriate teachers, and as is known all over the world,  these were not easy to obtain, eapeclally if quality was a consideration. I should say  that this has proved a marked achievement, for which Tanzania is very grateful to Unesco.
4.11 The work-oriented Adult Literacy Project came into operation in January 1968 and  has made substantial progress during the first year. The number of literacy classes is
349   increasing rapidly and it is expected that by the end of 1971 there will be about 2, 000  classes, with an average enrolment of 25 pupils per class. The government is conscious  of the Importance of literacy to our economic and social development, and it is for this  reason that, in addition to the pi)nt project, the government also finances a National Adult  Education Programme. In fact, 1970 has been declared by the President of the United  Republic of Tanzania as Adult Education Year within the framework of the International  Education Year.
4,12 Similarly we have several other projects, such as the setting up of model school  libraries, training courses for teachers of blind children, upgrading of teachers and many  others. All these arc making good progress and we have very great hopes for their  future. We are, therefore, grateful for the efforts which Unesco is making on these pro-  jects and we hope that many more enterprises of this nature will be undertaken in the pro-  grammes which are now under discussion.
4.13 We note with considerable satisfaction that document 16 7/4 has given prominence to  programmes on peace and human rights which are key r 3,onsibilities of Unesco. The  work of this Organization will be greatly enhanced by its continual effort to focus attention  on the oppressed peoples of Africa and elsewhere, In Africa I would particularly empha-  size the plight of the people of South Africa, of the people of Namibia, and of the people  still living in the Portuguese colonies. All these people failto enjoy the dignity of man  and are denied their human rights because of continuing oppression. We hoped that  Unesco, within its sphere of competence, will do what it can to help to prepare pro-  grammes that will enable these people also, in due course, to enjoy the dignity of man and  human rights. We would, for instance, wish to see underlined the importance of increa-  sed support to programmes for refugees, namely training programmes for those who have  never had the benefit of education, and assistance in placing into useful activity those who  have already had such education but cannot return io their homes. While there is a need  for studies and research in the field of peace and human rights in the social sciences, we  believe that a practical solution to these nroblems will be found.
4.14 We further wish to see Unesco play a part in assisting liberation movements. So  far Unesco has done very little in this field, but we know that it has a part to play and  should exert itself in that direction.
4.15 Mr. President, with regard to the draft long-term outline, we are of the opinion  that every Unesco long-term programme should be the subject of evaluation in the course  of its implementation; at the end, the reporis so obtained would constitute guidelines for  similar future programmes. The Joint Inspection Unit has done its work quite satisfac-  torily, but it is clear that it is not only concerned with Unesco; it has other responsibi-  lities as well and we feel that it cannot evaluate Unesco projects from a purely Unesco  standpoint. We believe that this Organization must have its own team of evaluators. We  also agree that programmes that have outlived their purpose should be discontinued and in  this sense we share the Director-General's views in paragraphs 67 through 77 of document
4.16 Mr, President, following the Director-General's statement to the Administrati.e  Commission on {4 October, my delegation is glad to support the strengthening of the  directorate by the appointment of an Assistant Director-General responsible for pre-  programming. We appreciate the Director-General's motives in introducing this im-  portant innovation and trust that he will have the unanimous support of all of us assembled  here.
4.17 With considerable concern the Director-General in his presentation informed us of  what he and his staff are doing to remove fears and uncertainties in the Secretariat, that  have been the subject of some adverse criticism in the press. We have noted the  Director-General's action in having round-table discussions as a positive step. This  should provide a basis for earnest debate among the staff about their welfare,
4.18 Mr. President, my delegation believes that the draft long-term plan offers a basis  for all of us to face the future with confidence. We believe that the plan shows vision  and we very much hope that the spirit in which it has been prepared will prevail in its  implementation also. Thank you, Mr. President.
(5.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank Mr. Mfinanga, head of the delegation of the United Republic of Tanzania,
(5.2) I call on H.E. Professor América Riera, Vice-Minister of Education and head of the dele-  gation of Honduras.
(6.1) Miss AMERICA RIERA (Honduras) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, Itisa great  honour for those who were born in America that the sixteenth session of the General Conference  of Unesco, which is taking place during the International Education Year, should ve presided over  by an American, Dr. Atilio Dell'Oro Maini, a fact whichbrings joy to the governments and peoples  of the world discovered by Columbus under the patronage of our Motherland, Spain,
(6.2) One hundred and twenty-five countries make up the family of the United Nations Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Organization; they are the States Members, some of them with vast re-  sources and others with scant resources; but that is not what matters most, What is more im-  portant is to know how to give and to know how to make good use of what is received.
(6.3) Development, at the close of the first decade and the beginning of the second, means a  union of efforts, coupled with ideas and better possibilities for ensuring that the dignity of man  shall prevail,
(6.4) The Constitution of Honduras lays down that education ie a special responsibility of the  State, which must promote the development of communities and support and develop pre-school,  primary and secondary education, including, in the case of secondary education, pre-vocational  and vocational education and art schools; public education is free and primary education is com-  pulsory and entirely financed by the State.
(6.5) The Honduran educational system is egalitarian since it provides equal opportunities for  all and is consequen'ly completely democratic in that it makes no discrimination either between  those who learn or batween those who teach; it is, moreover, comprehensive and permanent in-  asmuch as education is regarded as à single process continuing throughout a man's lifetime. 1  would add that in Honduras there is no discrimination of any kind, -
(6.6) The Public Education budget is larger than the National Defence budget - a telling proof  that the government presided over by General Oswaldo Lopez Arellano puts its faith in education,  firmly believes that those who neglect their schooling place no value on their own freedom and  is confident that civilization and intellectual and moral forces will finally eliminate ignorance  and ensure the triumph of the human personality.
(6.7) Peace and progress, The Director-General has adopted a commendable attitude in re-  affirming the aims of the Organization, above all else, peace and development, the former being  the source of the laiter since the abolition of peace entails a partial or total abolition of develop-  ment. We must all be grateful to Mr. Maheu for the initiatives and measures that he has taken  during the past biennium not only for the preservation of peace but also for the protection of cul-  tural property and archaeological monuments in all those regions of the world where thesetreas-  ures of mankind stand in grave danger of disappearing in the warlike conflicts that threaten them.
(6.8) As a representative of the people and Government of Honduras and on behalf of the Presi-  dent and delegation of Honduras, Î desire to express our enduring gratitude, which extends also  to Unicef end the other cultural bodies collaborating in the programme of reconstruction and re-  habilitation of hundreds of schools in communities that have recently been woefully ravaged.
(6.9) Human rights. Education is a right. Hence it must not be subject to limitations anywhere  in the world because it offers the only way that can lead to genuine international understanding  among peoples of different races, different ideologies and different religions - the only way through  which men will rot allow themselves to be ruled by instinct and their lower passions but by the  spirit, the spirit of their education and culture.
(6.13) In a brilliant essay on education written more than a century and a half ago, a learned  American born in Honduras, José Cecilio del Valle, was truly a forerunner and prophet. Thus  he sald, for example: ''Despotism destroys and education preserves and improves. To deny to  men all useful knowledge and to neglect their moral education would be to condemn them to total  ineptitude and incapacity and to leave them without any worth. The power of enlightenment, noble  in its purpose and peaceful in its means, is of surpassing merit in its effects. Ye men of good-  will, lovers of the sciences and defenders of the people, persevere in the struggle youare waging  for the good of mankind. The greatest of all tasks is to create, and education is a kind of crea-  tion. To educate is to shape a being who did not exist in the form that has been moulded; it is to  endow him with the beneficial knowledge and Habits of morality which his preservation and im-  provement require". And he goes on to say: ""The society of Paris', which embraces the whole  world in its vast conception of a love of mankind that brings enlightenment to the peoples for the  improvement of the destiny of the human race, did me the honour of appointing me to its mem-  bership and of awarding me its diploma, which I received in August 1827",
(6.11) It is indeed a great honour for me to recall here in Paris, at the Headquarters of Unesco,  the figure of this great American Honduran, a citizen of the world, who took so broad a view of  education and raised, as it were, a banner for all the peoples of the New World. And mention of  José Cecilio del Valle brings to mind the memory of a famous contemporary of his, General Fran-  cisco Morazan, a worthy son of Jionduras, the {* -t President of Central America and great pro-  pounder of principles in favour of equality of rights,
(6.12) Programme of school libraries. Following upon a requent by oar government, Honduras  and Unesco set in motion the experimental project for school litraries in August 1967, It is re-  gional in scope and has its headquarters at Tegucigalpa.
(6.13) Unicef has been taking part in this Programme since 1969. ‘The project in question is  given priority by the Government of Honduras which, within its limited resources, spares no ef-  fort to promote its development, especially by increasing its budget annually with much higher  percentages than those stipulated in the respective agreements with Unesco and Unicef.
(6.14) The Project also has the firm co-operation of the Central Bank of Honduras, the Honduran  Savings Bank and, through their embassies, the Governments of Argentina, Brazil, Chile and  Peru, as well as Associations of heads of families, municipalities, social service clubs, etc.
(6.15) Up to the present time, the library services have benefited 22,000 children and 700 tea-  chers who, two years ago, did not have available to them even a small pocket dictionary and who  today are aseiduous readers thus showing that the objectives aimed at have been reached, for  which we must congratulate Unesco, Unicef and the Government and people of Honduras.
(6.16) Mr. President, International Education Year coincides with the centenary anniversary of  the birth of Maria Montessori, the first woman holder of a doctorate in natural sciences and  medicine in Italy and founder of the method based on self-education which is concerned with the  development of the senees and of which freedom is the central principle, May I suggest that the  General Conference adopt a resolution opening a voluntary subscription list for the purpose of  setting up a Montessori fund to be used solely for establishing echools for mentally handicapped  children in countries or places where they do not exist but are needed and called for, since it  was these helpless beings who inspired that extraordinary woman in her important educa-  tional work.
(6.17) Mr. President, Honduras would wish thls 1970 congress of culture, educationand science  to adopt the best resolutions and tc reaffirm its attitude in its campaign for the elevation of man-  kind. Thank you,  El PRESIDENTE:  Agradezco a la Excma. Srta. Profesora dona América Riera, Jefe de la Delegaciôn  de Honduras, su discurso.
(7.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 thank Miss América Riera, head of the délegation of Honduras,
(7.2) 1 call on Hi: Excellency Professor Rao, Minister of Education of India and head of the In-  dian delegation.
8.1 Mr. RAO (India):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, on behalf of my delegatiun, my country and my-  self, I offer you, Mr. President, our wholeheaited felicitations on your unanimous elec-  tion. It is an honour for the General Conference to Le led by a distinguished cultural  leader from Latin America, a great cultural region with which my country has many  affinities and whose friendship we value greatly. I also take this opportunity to express  my warm appreciation of the great ability, dedication, independence and integrity of our  Director-General, Mr. René Maheu, whose presentation of the report on the activities of  the Organization, the main subject of our present debate, I admired for its lucidity and  thoughtfulness.
8.2 This General Conference, Mr. President, is meeting in the International Education  Year.which marks the beginning of the Second United Nations Development Decade. This  year, the United Nations celebrates its Silver Jubilee and Unesco itself will do so next  year. This biennium, therefore, provides an excellent platform from which we can look  back on our past achievements, take stock of the gains and losses, and prepare short-  term and long-term plans to meet the challenge of the critical years ahead. It is against  this background that we will have to take decisions on the varied and important agenda  which the Director-General has presented to us. In this task, Mr. President, we look  forward to your able and scholarly guidance.
8.3 It is customary on such occasions for the spokesman of each country to detail the  achievements and experiences of their countries in the fields covered by Unesco. Follow-  ing your suggestion, Mr, President, I propose to have circulated separately a brief note  on India's experiences and expectations which I trust the different delegations present here  may find of some interest(1)
8.4 I shall now take up, Mr. President, with your permission, a brief review ofthe signi-  ficant tasks that face the world and, in particular, us in Unesco, in the decade of the  seventies. The Lusaka Conference of non-aligned states, which met only a few days ago,  accepted my Prime Minister's description of the problem before them as that of the  "unfinished revolution'. She was zpeaking in the political and economic context of the  zubjects dealt with by that Conference. I would like to state that the task before Unesco  during the seventies is that of completing the unfinished revolution, which bogan in such  a modest way 24 years ago with the establishment of this great Organization. The revolu-  tion, Mr. President, we have to complete is that of establishing peace and goodwill in the  minds and hearts of :nen and women all over the world; and this we cannot do untilwe  involve both the developed and the developing countries in this process by the establish-  ment between thera of a two-way transmission of education, culture, science and techno-  logy that will reduce, if not eliminate altogether, the gaps between them, and establish  universal respect for the universal equality and dignity of man as such, Irrespective of  his other differences.
8.5 The most important task facing us, Mr. President, is of course the elimination of  war and the establishment of an enduring peace. This can only be possible if we build.  the defences oi peace, not only in the minds of men, as the Constitution of Unesco  suggests, but more especially in the minds of children and youth to whom tomorrow  really belongs. It is they who have to be persuaded to see the relevance of non-violence  and peace for creating a world in which every individual will come into his own and in  which, as Dr. Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan, the eminent Indian philosopher-statesman who
(1) See statement appended to this verbatim record.
356   has presided over this Conference in the past, once said, "all the heads will be hard and  all the pillows soft". I therefore plead, Mr. President, for an intensive programme to  educate the rising generation, not only as citizens of this or that country, but also as  genuine citizens of the world, who are committed to peace and non-violence.
8.6 I suggest threc concrete programmes which Unesco should develop to this end. The  first is the preparation of a children's encyclopaedia which would introduce them to the  basic aspects of our knowledge, to the lives of great men ofthe world; and to the cultures  of all peoples. The second is the compilation of books containing the world s best stories  which would introduce them to the cultural, moral and spiritual treasures of all mankind;  and thé third is the preparation of "A Children's History of World Civilization" which  would show them how man has been slowly but definitely moving towards the creation of  a world social order based on peace, mutual understanding, tolerance, goodwill and co-  operation. I also propose, and this is most important, Mr. President, that all the Mem-  ber States of Unesco should resolve to use these basic books in all their educational sys-  tems, so that they permeate the thoughts and feelings of all our children and youth,  irrespective of their country of birth. It is only through such purposive and universal  efforts spread over a number of years that we shall be able to create a generation of  world citizens who would make war a thing of the past.
8.7 Another programme I would like to emphasize in this context, Mr. President, is the  devélopment of peace research, As an Indian, I feel extrernely indebted to Unesco for all  that it did last year to bring the message of Mahatma Gandhi, the message of truth and non-  violence, to the serious notice of all Member States. And, may I also add, I take this  opportunity of thanking all the Member States for the wholehearted and enthusiastic way in  which, irrespective of their ideologies or continents, they celebrated the centenary of  Mahatma Gandhi. That, in my opinion, was only the first step; and we have now to fol-  low it up by à sustained programme of action in the international sphere, under which the  relevance of Gandhi's message and his non-violent alternative for the reconstruction of a  world social order Will be continuously and earnestly studied by countries and peoples all  over the world. 1 therefore suggest, Mr. President, that Unesco should set aside ade-  quate funds in this biennium for the establishment of an international institute of peace-  research and for the promotion of close collaboration between all the different agencies in  the world which are now dedicating themselves to the elimination of violence and to the  promotion of peace and democratic methods for the resolution of conflicts.
8.8 My second theme, Mr. President, is the widening imbalance of development béiween  the different countries of the world, which has now become more acute than at any earlièr  period in world history. It is this that tends to nurture the seeds of a new world confitct.  Reduction of this gap between the developed and the developing nations is therefor: a must  if we want to avoid a new world war, This will necessarily imply the launching of a num-  ber of programmes on several fronts among which, because of limitations of time, I shall  refer only’ to three,
8.9 The first is the development of science and technology in the less-advanced nations.  The present world, Mr. President, is essentially science-based and even science-  dominated, =o that the difference between the rich and the poor nations ultimately boils  down to their command or lack of command over modern science and technology. I would,  therefore, urge upon Unesco the necessity of promoting science and technology in the  developing téuntries as its most important programme inthe Second Development Decade.  Frorn this point of view, Mr. President, I must bring to the notice of this Conference the  serinus doncern atid disappointment which all'of us in Asia feel because Veky little has  been done to give effect to the recommendations of the CASTASIA Conference. I would  also strongly appeal té this Conference, Mr. President, to provide adequate funds and to  create a suitable machinéry sd that the recommendations of the CASTASIA Conference  could be vigorously implemented, not only in this biennium, but in a sustained manner  over the next decade as a whole.
8.10 The second programme that I would like to suggest is that Unesco should mobilize  the best scientists and technologists available in the world, for the development of an  "intermediate technology". As you are aware, Mr. President, scientific and techno-  logical research is now mostly tuned to the needs of big industry and increased produc-  tivity through intensification of capital. While this may suit the more industrialized.  countries, it does not meet the needs of developing nations, where the available capital  is limited and the need to maximize employment, especially in countrieo like mine; is  imperative. What these countries neéd mest, therefore, is an "intermediate techno-  logy", which is suited to their prevailing factor proportions and which will reconcile the  objectives of employment promotion and cost minimization. Such research may be  initially expensive, but economies can be effected through regional and international co-  operation; and the rich dividends it could yield for the developing nations would be com-  pensation enough for all the investment needed in terms of men and money. This is an  unexplored field in which Unesco could play a pioneering and a significant rôle.
8.11 The third programme I have in mind, Mr. President, is the development of educa-  tion. Here the tasks that face the world are almost impossibly immense. . A large pro-  portion of the world's population is still illiterate, and we in India own a:large proportion  of that illiterate part of the world's population. The majority of the world's children do  not yet receive even that minimum of education which-is essential for citizenship in the  modern world. Secondary and higher education is underdeveloped in most countries and,  in many areas, it presents various challenges due to the inadequacy of standards or lack  of proper co-ordination with employment opportunities, So much so that these developing  countries, including even our African friends, are beginning to face the problem of educa-  ted unemployment. But that is not all. The fast pace at which society is now changing  has made "living" almost synonymous with "learning'; and we are thus required to evolve  a programme of life-long integrated education for every individual. It is even more im-  portant to transform existing educational systems, to modify the present dominating pur-  suit of the acquisition of knowledge and skills so as to lay adequate emphasis on cultural,  moral and spiritual pursuits as well. I am afraid, Mr. President, that these and other  problems arising from the phenomenon of the education explosion and the stress on life-  long education cannot be solved within the current systems of education which operate on  a whole-time basis.
8.12 In this context, Mr. President, I would like to refer to only one agpect of this re-;  organization of educational systems: the nced:to emphasize informal education and to  bring in the mass media, as integral parts of the new educational technology, in as large  a way as possible, Throughout the past, we have been emphasizing mainly the formal  systems of education which operate on a whole-time basis. This was understandable  when the overall enrolments were limited and when education was regarded as a whole-  time pursuit only during a small period of a person's life. But these assumptions are no  longer valid. Enrolments, even in the formal systems of education, have now grown  immensely with the provision of universal elementary and secondary education, and with  the liberalization of access to higher education, In several developed countries, they  have already reached 20% of the entire population; and within the near future, they may  reach 25%. What is even more important, education has now to become a life- -long pro-  cess, so that the educational systems of tomorraw will be called upon to bring each indivi-  dual under their influence as early as possible, and to remain, in touch with him, on a  formal whole-time basis or on an informal part- time basis, . throughout his life. In a  situation of this type, what we have to develop is an "open university" system, of educa-  tion through radio and television, which will be capable of "delivering" the needed educa-  tion to each individual wherever he lives and works, and will meet the needs, not only of  whole-time students in the formal system of education but also of drop-outs from that.sys-  tem and of working youth and adults. In fact, Mr, President, it appears to me that this  open university is likely to be the most significant educational instrument of tomorrow, and  one which will have the largest enrolments and the greatest impact on society. The prob-  lems involved in developing an informal system of education like this have. received in-
357   adequate attention in the past. Iplead that this Conference should consider them in earnest  because they will clearly be the dominant issues that we willhave to face in the years ahead,
8.13 It is in this context that we must view the significance of the Indo-American broad-  casting experiment, ir. which augmented community receivers in seven widely-separated  regions of India, will receive, direct from a satellite, educational and agricultural tele-  vision and radio programmes. If the experiment succeeds it will completely revolutionize  the whole strategy of disseminating education in underdeveloped countries. Let us hope  that by1975, when the experiment concludes, Unesco will be ready with a scheme to pro-  vide, under international control and finance - I repeat, under international control and  finance + communication satellites to India and those countries who share our problems.  In this context, I would also like this Conference to consider moving the appropriate  authorities to accord a spécific place for educational broadcasts in the Radio spectrum.
8.14 I would now like briefly to refer to the promotion of international understanding and  goodwill which 18 one of the important objectives of Unesco. Here, I would like to empna-  size another group of three programmes. The first is cultural collaboration. It is a  matter. for regret that cultural programmes do not receive as much attention in Unesco as  théy should. I must, thérefore, congratulate the Director-General on convening an Inter-  national Conference on Cultural Poli¢ies in Venice in August last, This is a good begin-  ning, I would, however; urge that, in the seventies, Unesco should make a more deter-  mined and intensive effort to promote cultural understanding between the different peoples  of the world.’ -This could bé done partly by emphasizing cultural aspects within the edvca-  tional systems themselves go that a large group of the population comes automatically  under their influence. It could also be furthered by enlarging the functions of Unesco in  the cultural field and especially in promoting meaningful programmes - not propaganda -  for thé‘dissérnination of culture, so that people in one part of the world would become more  conscious of the cultural heritage of other peoples. After all, the cultural heritage of  every country is, in every sense, the cultural heritage of mankind as a whole, and we  should do our best to see that the culture of each country is appreéiated in other countries  as well.’
8.15. I would also draw the attention of the Conference to a programme of great signifi-  cance in this field which has been almost completely neglected so far, namely, promoting  the study of classical languages. Every classical language cuts across many politicaland  even linguistic 'bouridaries and can be'an' important means of promoting snutual understand-  ing and goodwill. ' In addition, such languages are inexhaustible storehouses of values  and insights into life, which we can ighore only at our peril, and which have to be resuscita-  ted to countérbdlance the growth of a doiulless science and technology. I am, therefore, of  the view, Mr. President, that Unesco ought to make an earnest effort to promote the study  of élassical languages and bring people of different countries interested in them together  through periodical: conferénces as an important méans of promoting international under-  standing and’ goodwill. I would like to submit to this Conference - I hope I will not be  regarded as betrig paFochial ‘when I make this ‘suggestion - that a'beginning in this pro-  gramme might be ‘advatthgeously fade by organizing an international conference oh Sans-  krit. This languaÿé and its s gréat literature are now bel ng studied in more than 80 countries  ‘of the world and there 1s'prbbably no other language which could bring together so many  different groups on'd éémmon platform of mutual'uñderstanding and respect and in’the pur-  sult of esgential basic vallies, I would, therefore, ‘strongly utgé upon the Conference the  desirability of providing the necessary funds and machinery to convene an International  Sanskrit Conference during the next biennium, and preferably in 1971,
8.18 “The third programme, on à subject to which I have already referred, concerns the  need to promote the fnass media on à very large scale, especially in déveloping countries,  "While thése media havé dévéloped véry well In the industrialized nations, ‘they are Just in  "their infancy in the dévétéping sot¢ieties. I think they are'in their éarliest infancy in my  ¢olinitry, more than the othér developing countries of the’ world; A big effort is, there-  fore, needed to promote their development in such countries, especially since they can
358   helrs to transform these societies and their economies more effectively and in a shorter  time than the more formal systems of education. I trust that Unesco will pay increasing  attention to this problem,
8.17 Probably, Mr. President, a word of warning is needed here. While the mass  media can help to promote international understanding and goodwill, they can also have  exactly the contrary effect, if misused. We sometimes find that the glare and publicity  of the mass media of advanced countries is brought to bear on the developing countries,  not in love and sympathy, but with malice aforethought to hold them up to ridicule and  derision. It must not be forgotten that, like the individual, even nations have a rightto  privacy; and that the self-respect and dignity of developing nations should have adequate  protection against brutal attacks from the publicity fiends of the mass media in industria-  lized nations. Some international code of conduct is obviously needed and called for in  this regard and I would urge Unesco to study the problem and take suitable steps for its  formulation.
8.18 I would now like to invite this Conference to turn its attention to the Auroville Project  in India, which is a unique effort to establish a cultural township where people of different  countries will live together in harmony in one community and engage themselves in cultu-  ral, educational, scientific and other pursuits, Unesco has already commended this pro-  ject in its resolutions 4. 36 of the fourteenth session of the General Conference (1966) and
4, 02 of the fifteenth session (1968). The project has since made a good beginning and I  would request this General Conference also to support it and to commend it to all the Mem-  ber States for support as a unique experiment in promoting international understanding and  co-operation among the youth of the world, to whom it is dedicated. Mayl, Mr. President,  point out here that the host country of this Conference, France, should have a special  interest in the Auroville Project because it was France - though we were a colonial country  at the time, as against other colonial powers also present in my country at that time - gave  a shelter to Aurobindo the rebel who then turned into Aurobindo the great saint and philo-  sopher and regenerator of mankind, I would therefore appeal to this General Conference  to commend to the Member States the proposal to observe, in 1972, the centenary of Shri  Aurobindo, the great philosopher saint, who showed the way to create a new world order  through self-realization and self-fulfilment in individual lives. I know, Mr. President,  that 1972 has already been earmarked as International Book Year. Simultaneously, it  could also be the Aurobindo centenary year, emphasizing the concept of human unity to  which Aurobindo devoted his entire Life and thinking,
8.19 There is one more suggestion I would like to add before I close. I am in entire  agreement with the distinguished delegate of Finland who pleaded for some recognition of  regional languages by Unesco. In this connexion, I should like to point out that Hindi, now  the official language of India, is already spoken by more than 250 million people in my  country. In addition, it has now been accepted as a compulsory second language in the  schools in practically all the States of the Indian Union and, well before the end of the  seventies, more than 650 million people will be able to speak and read Hindi. Mayl  suggest to the Conference that Unesco might now take in hand a phased programme for the  availability of important Unesco publications in Hindi and the provision of facilities for the  use of Hindi as one of the working languages at future Unesco Conferences, J am glad  that Unesco has already adopted such a programme for Arabic. I would now request that  a similar programme should be instituted for Hindi beginning in the biennium 1973-1974.
8,20 Within the limitations of time available in this general debate I have, Mr, President,  referred to a few important items of policy and programme. My delegation will touch  upon many other matters during the course of this Conference. The mardfold tasks of  peace, development and promotion of human rights which devolve upon Unesco within its  own vast fields of competence will require greater resources, and more efficient means  of action. It is my fervent hope that the fraternity of nations gathered in’ this august  assembly will resolve together to bring about the fullest mobilization of resources,  material, ethical and intellectual, in a new spirit of goodwill and generosity. To my
11  mind, Mr. President, the growth rates of the programme and budget proposed by the  Director-General fall short of both the needs and the capacities of international action and  co-operation in the flelds of Unesco, and we should find adequate ways and means or  accelerating the tempo of development. I can assure you that the government and the  people of India will never fail in their full support and dedication to the furtherance of  Unesco's noble tasks and I hope we can generatein this Conference a new spirit of co-  operation that will serve both peace and development.
8.21 Mr, President, we in India attach great importance to the work of Unesco. It has  achieved many great things; and what is even more important, it has a trems=dous poten-  tial, as yet unexplored, to promote international understanding and goodwill, to strengthen  collaboration and co-operation among its Member States in education, science and culture,  and to help to usher in, at the earliest possible moment, a new world order based on free-  dom, justice and equality. India is deeply weddedto the idea of peace and international  co-operation. We have, therefore, taken a keen interest in Unesco right from its incep-  tion and we appreciate its dedicated work in promoting the concept of a united world,  rich in its diversity of forms and yet unified in basic values and concepts.
8.22 I am glad that with the painful realization by my friends of the developed countries,  including both the super-powers, that affluence is not the final solution to human happiness,  nor mechanization the final solution of human efficiency, there is now a much greater  consciousness in the world today of the need for human development and the fulfilment of  the potential good in every human being. In studying this problem and finding solutions,  the only large International agency that can deliver the goods is Unesco. We, and  especially those of our Meinber countries who belong to the affluent fourth of the world,  have the primary responsibility ‘for converting Unesco potentiality into actuality. And  this can be done by giving Unasco primacy of place in the decade of the 1970s, which  starts from this Conference. It is not necessary that Unesco should become the wealthiest  international agency; it is eri/ ugh if other international agencies use its wisdom and dedi-  cation to serve the cause of himan development. I am glad that Mr. McNamara, who now  heads the wealthiest international agency, namely the World Bank, is already seized of  this problem and is now giving importance to education, science and culture in the finan-  cing programmes of both thu: World Bank and its affiliate, IDA.
8.23 I will now conclude, Mr. President, with the hope that Unesco will help, and be  helped, in the years ahead, to widen the fleld of international co-operation still further,  and that it will stimulate the release of resources, material and spiritual, which, some  day, may help to create a Parliament of Man that will cut across national and other fron-  tiers and operate a federal political system for the world as a whole. Thank you,  Mr. President.  The meeting rose at 12 noon.
(9.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank Mr. Rao for his statement,
(9.2) I call on His Excellency Mr. Mandl, head of the delegation of the Democratic Republic of  the Congo.
10,1 M, MANDI (République démocratique du Congo), -  Monsieur le Président, Meadames, Messieurs les délégués, prenant la parole pour  la première fois au cours de la présente session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco,
360   j'ai le devoir de féliciter au nom de la République démocratique du Congo le président sor-  tant, M, Eteki-Mboumoua, pour la compétence et la maîtrise avec lesquelles il a dirigé  les travaux de la quinzième session, et de joindre ma voix à celle des éminents orateurs  qui m'ont précédé pour présenter les compliments de ma délégation au nouveau Président  et au Bureau de la seizième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco,
10.2 Les félicitations que nous adressons à M, Del}'Oro Maini ne sont pas inspirées par  le simple désir de satisfaire aux usages, car sa compétence comme son expérience sont  reconnues par toutes les délégations ici présentes, Je ne doute pas que sa contribution au  succès de nos travaux sera à la mesure de celle qu'il n'a cessé d'apporter à l'Organisation  tout au long de sa carrière,
10,3 Monsieur le Président, la seizième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco  se tient à une époque particulièrement importante, D'une part, l'année 1970, proclaraée  Année internationale de l'éducation, constitue pour nous un moment de réflexion et d'action  positive en vue de la promotion de l'éducation dans le monde ; d'autre part, nous sommes  au seuil de la Deuxième Décennie des Nations Unies pour le développement,
10,4 A partir de cette constatation, deux réflexions s'imposent à la délégation de la Répu-  blique démocratique du Congo. La première intéresse le programme présenté dans le do-  cument 16 C/5, la seconde porte sur la conception que la République démocratique du Congo  se fait de la coopération internationale en matière d'éducation,
10,5 Nous apprécions le programme présenté par le Directeur général, Ce programme  fait ressortir la nécessité de poursuivre et d'améliorer sans cesse l'action entreprise de-  puis plus de deux décennies par l'Unesco, Cette action est fondée sur une recherche perma-  nente des facteurs qui accélèrent le développement de l'éducation, de la science et de la  culture ou qui, au contraire, le ralentissent, le perturbent et nuisent à la réalisation de  l'harmonie dans la communauté internationale,
10.6 Mon pays a mis à profit cette Année internationale de l'éducation pour organiser des  cycles d'études, des séminaires d'enseignants et des conférences destinées aux parents,  et pour célébrer deux journées, l'une nationale et l'autre intérnationale, consacrées res-  pectivement à l'éducation et à l'alphabétis:tion, au cours desquelles a été analysée la situa-  tion de l'enseignement dans notre pays.
10,7 La République démocratique du Congo a particulièrement conscience d'une part de la  complexité des problèmes posés par l'accroissement vertigineux du nombre d'élèves: à tous  les degrés de l'enseignement, par le retard des jeunes filles et par la déperdition énorme  des effectifs dans l'ensemble du système d'éducation et, d'autre part, de la nécessité d'amé-  llorer l'aspect qualitatif de l'enseignement, de renforcer l'enseignement technique et pro-  fessionnel et de rationaliser l'enseignement supérieur compte tenu des moyens disponibles.
10.8 Les différents points du programme pour 1971-1972 seront analysés de façon détail-  lée en temps opportun par les membres de ma délégation qui participent aux travaux des  commissions spécialisées et qui feront connaître le point de vue du gouvernement congo-  lais, Par ailleurs, la délégation de la République démocratique du Congo félicite le Direc-  teur général et ses collaborateurs de l'effort qu'ils ont fait pour répondre aux voeux for-  mulés dans la résolution 33,1 adoptée par la Conférence générale à sa quinzième session  et relative à l'élabbration d'un plan à long terme, L'Esquisse de plan exposée dans le do-  cument 16 C/4 ne permet pas seulement d'escompter une action plus ordonnée de l'Unesco  à l'avenir ; elle constitue également pour la plupart des Etats membres un cadre de réfs-  rence indispensable pour leur propre programmation. Je suis convaincu que nos pays seu-  ront y puiser des idées novatrices qui permettiront d'accéder à la civilisation de l'univer-  sel vers laquelle nous conduit le dialogue,
10,9 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, nul n'ignore que, pen-  dant les cinq premières années qui ont suivi son accession à l'indépendance, mon pays a
361   été un vaste champ d'opération pour les Nations Unies en général et pour l'Unesco en par-  ticulier, Il a doné pu apprécier dans sa réalité concrète les objectifs éthiques ainsi que les  idéaux qui animent et continueront à animer les organisations internationales telles que la  nôtre, Qu'il me soit permis de renouveler ici l'expression de la gratitude de mon gouver-  nement pour tout ce qui a pu être réalisé grâce à cette solidarité internationale, Nous vou-  drions vous livrer les enseignements que nous avons tirés de l'expérience vécue et les ré-  sultats de notre réflexion au sujet de la coopération internationale.
10,10 Mon pays juge vital l'assainissement des rapports qui doivent fonder et animer la  notion de coopération internationale, Il nous semble que la notion d'aide doit désormais  céder définitivement la place à celle de coopération, Alors que la première, avec la gamme  de complexes qu'elle entraîne, tend à impliquer l'action sans contrepartie d'un donateur  envers un bénéficiaire, la seconde met en présence deux parties également intéressées à  la coopération et oeuvrant ensemble pour atteindre des objectifs fixés d'un commun accord,
10,11 La mise en pratique effective de la notion de coopération devrait produire chez les  Etats membres de notre Organisation un véritable changement de mentalité et de compor-  tement, Il s'agit de rien moins que d'une véritable révolution,
10,12 L'Unesco devrait tirer une fierté légitime de cette exigence des temps, car il est  permis de penser que c'est le succès de l'action qu'elle a entreprise il y a dix ans qui nous  a permis de passer du stade de peuples aidés à celui d'Etats capables de coopération, Fn  effet, en ce qui concerne la République démocratique du Congo, l'évolution de la situation  au cours de la décennie écoulée se traduit par des faits marquants, Pour l'exercice finan-  cier an cours, le budget du seul Département de l'éducation nationale, qui est d'ailleurs le  plus important du pays, approche de 63 millions de zafres.- 126 millions de dollars - ; il  est donc très supérieur au budget ordinaire annuel de l'Unesco, La participation conjointe  de l'Unesco et du PNUD aux projets en cours se situe actuellement entre un cinquième et  un quart du coût total de la réalisation de ces projets, le reste étant à la charge de l'Etat,  Enfin, sur près de quatre mille experts et enseignants étrangers oeuvrant au Congo et dont  plus de la moitié sont rémunérés intégralement par l'Etat, 2 % au maximum relèvent du  PNUD et d= l'Unesco, Le systèmé d'éducation constituant un ensemble cohérent, il nous  paraît normal que l'action du PNUD, s'intégrant à celle de l'Etat, n'échappe pas à un cer-  tain contrôle de ce dernier, De là, il résulte que les programmes mis en oeuvre par  l'Unesco, en particulier, et par les Nations Unies en général, dans un pays donné doivent  être conçus sur une base bilatérale, compte tenu des conditions spécifiques de ce pays.
10.13 Au paragraphe 25 du document 16 C/4, le Directeur général déclare : "Il faut dire  qu'au sein même du système des Nations Unies se rencontrent actuellement des conditions  qui ne sont guère favorables à une programmation rationnelle de l'assistance internatio-  nale dans son ensemble ,,, Ce que l'on est tenu de souligner comme un obstacle à cette  coordination, c'esl la pluralité des organismes qui aspirent à effectuer pour la totalité du  système la programmation intégrée de l'aide internationale ‘au niveau des pays. " La Répu-  blique démocratique du Congo fait sienne cette observation du Directeur. général, et pense  que les pays concernés doivent se voir reconnaître, dans son intégralité, le pouvoir de  coordonner sur leur territoire l'action des organisations internationales afin de pallier les  conséquences fAcheuses qu'entraînerait pour eux l'absence d'une telle coordination,
10,14 Au seuil de cette Deuxième Décennie du développement, il nous paraît de la plus  haute importance qu'un équilibre soit maîntenu, au sein du programme de l'Unesco, entre  l'action opérationnelle d'une part et les recherches et les études d'autre part, car la ten-.  dance à une diminution de l'action opérationnelle, qui se fait jour actuellement, est de na-  ture À susciter l'inquiétude légitime des pays en voie de développement,
10.15 Notre souci de voir réaliser l'équilibre entre l'action opérationnelle et les études et  recherches de l'Unesco nous conduit à penser que, au cours de la Deuxième Décennie des  Nations Unies pour le développernent, le problème de l'éducation en général, et de l'ensei-  gnement des sciences exactes et naturelles en particulier, devrait être au centre de nos
362   préoccupations prioritaires, Nous sommes d'avis que les pays sous-développés en général,  et la République démocratique du Congo en particulier, ont besoin d'une coopération accrue  avec les organisations internationales pour la formation de cadres hautement qualifiés :  professeurs d'université et de l'enseignement secondaire, ingénieurs de tous ordres et autres  spécialistes de sciences exactes,
10,16 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, ces brèves observa-  tions témoignent non seulement de notre attachement aux idéaux élevés que poursuit  l'Unesco mais encore, et je dirais surtout, de notre volonté d'apporter une contribution po-  sitive à l'oeuvre entreprise par l'Organisation en vue d'assurer la coopération effective  dont nous avons tous besoin,
10,17 À la lumière des enseignements de la-Première Décennie des Nations Unies pour le  développement, il est de notre devoir à tous de tout mettre en oeuvre pour que la Deuxième  Décennie apporte moins de déceptions et plus d'espoirs d'une vic meilleure aux peuples et  aux pays en voie de développement qui ont placé toute leur confiance dans l'Organisation  des Nations Unies et dans ses institutions spécialisées, et qui en particulier attendent beau-  coup de l'Organisation des Nations Unies pour l'éducation, la science et la culture.
10.18 Ma délégation profite de cette occasion pour exprimer encore une fois encore sa con-  fiance en l'avenir de l'Unesco et les espoirs qu'elle met duns le rapprochement des nations.
(11.1) The PRESIDENT {Translation from the Spanish):  I thank Mr. Mandi, head of the delegation of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for his  statement.
(11.2) I call on Mr. N'Diaye, Observer for the African Development Bank.
12,1 M. N'DIAYE (Banque africaine de développement), -  Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les délégués, Mesdames, Messieurs, permettez-  moi de dire, au nom du président de la Banque africaine de développement, M. Labidi, et  en mon nom propre, combien nous avons été sensibles à l'invitation qui nous a été faite  d'assister à cette session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco, Qu'il me soit permis  d'ajouter que nous avons voulu, en acceptant cette invitation, témoigner du vif désir que  nous avons de coopérer avec l'Unesco, institution qui oeuvre dans le même sens que la  Banque africaine de développement, c'est-à-dire dans le sens du développement économique  et du progres, L'éducation n'est-elle pas, en effet, l'un des facteurs essentiels du pro-  grès social ? Sans diffusion de la culture et de la science, il ne saurait y avoir de dévelop-  pement véritable ; il ne saurait en tout cas y avoir aucun développement durable, C'est  pourquoi les organisations financières qui s'intéressent au développement se doivent d'ac-  corder à l'éducation et aux projets relatifs à l'éducation une attention toute particulière, La  Banque africaine de développement en est consciente, et c'est pourquoi, afin d'atteindre  plus facilement ses objectifs, elle n'a depuis sa création épargné aucun effort pour établir  une coopération étroite avec les organisations telles que l'Unesco, Conformément à cette  politique, elle a signé en 1968 avec l'Unesco un accord visant en particulier à faciliter  l'identification des projets qui, dans le domaine de l'éducation, peuvent être considérés  comme viables, En ce momènt même, elle est en train d'examiner avec l'Unesco un cer-  tain nombre de possibilités, avec l'espoir que cet examen aboutira à la préparation de pro-  jets prioritaires intéressant l'éducation qu'elle pourrait accepter de financer, De tels pro-  jets ne sauraient évidemment porter leurs fruits qu'à longue échéance et il est impossible  de savoir d'avance avec précision quels seront leurs résultats, Leur financement doit par  conséquent être assuré dans des conditions spéciales avec des ressources appropriées,
363   Afin de pouvoir intensifier ses activités dans le domaine en question, notre Banque a done  préconisé la création d'un Fonds africain de développement et elle a invité plusieurs pays  exportateurs de capitaux à coniribuer à ce fonds, En attendant que celui-ci fonctionne ef-  fectivement, elle est prête à mobilixe ses propres ressources pour collaborer avec l'Unesco  et avec d'autres organisations qui poursuivent le même objectif qu'elle : celui du progrès  économique et social des pays africains,
12,2 Je ne voudrais pas, Mesdames, Messieurs, retenir plus longtemps votre attention,  Je conclurai donc en disant que je m'associe, au nom de la Banque africaine de développe-  ment ct en mon nom propre, aux félicitations qui ont déjà été adressées, pour sa brillante  élection, au Président de cette session de la Conférence générale,
(13.1) The PRESIDENT (Translatiou from the Spanish):
1 thank the Observer for the African Development Bank, Mr. N'Diaye, for his statement.
(13,2) This morning's list of speakers is now exhausted. The plenary meeting on Monday next  will be devoted to Item 13: Approval of the provisional maximum budgetary ceiling, document  C/5, paragraph 6; and to Items 29 and 30 of the Agenda: Method of election and duration of the  term of office of the members of the Executive Board, documents 16 C/27 and 16 C/28. I would  recall that the Officers of the Conference will meet at 9:00 in Room IX and that the plenary meet-  ing will meet at 10:00.
(13.3) I declare the meeting closed.  Th: meeting rose at 12 noon,  La séance est levée à 12 heures,  Se levanta la sesién a las 12,