Thirty-seventh plenary meeting
13 November 1970 at 3.25 p.m.  President: Mr. DELL'ORO MAINI (Argentina)  Trente-septième séance plénière
13 novembre 1970, à 15 h,25  Président : M, DELL'ORO MAINI (Argentine)  Trigésimoséptima sesiôn plenaria
55301, dull LW] LJ)  LL Re Pant al  (oil) shales sdbusf sped! 4 Gert  CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORT OF THE PROGRAMME COMMISSION (continued)/  EXAMEN DU RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION DU PROGRAMME (suite) /  EXAMEN DEL INFORME DE LA COMISION DEL PROGRAMA (continuacién)/  PACCMOTPEHHE JOKJIAJA KOMHCCHH MO NPOT'PAMME (npoaonxenue)  plod aad is hdl sll
(1.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 declare the meeting open.
(1,2) We are continuing with the Report of the Programme Commission (document 16 C/105,  Part C.4, Annex - Recommendations). We still had to consider the paragraphs concerning the  structure and management of the Communication Sector; summary of established posts; budget  summary.
(1.3) The General Conference takes nots of the résumés at the end of Chapter 4 of the Draft Pro-  gramme and Budget for 1971-1972,
(1.4) The Commission recommends unanimously, less 6abstentions, thatthe General Conference  approve an overall Regular programme appropriation of $11,198,589 as given in paragraph 1081  of document 16 C/5 for Chapter 4 - Communication, subject to possible budgetary adjustments  to be determined by the Programme Commission and the Administrative Commission when they  meet jointly to discuss the adjustments necessary in all Programme Sectors,  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
(1.5) The budget is approved by 62 votes to none, with 7 abstentions.
(1.6) We shall now consider Chapter 2, Natural Sciences and their Application to Development.  This is document 16 C/105, Part C,2 - Sciences, Annex - Recommendations.
(1.7) Sub-Chapter 2.1 - Science Policy, Scientific Information and Fundamental Research, Sec-  tion 2.11 - Ministerial conferences on science and technology. The Commission recommends  unanimously that the General Conference adopt draft resolution 2.11,
(1.8) Draft resolution 2.11 is adopted unanimously.
(1.9) The General Conference takes note of the corresponding work plan.
(1.10) The Commission unanimously recommends that an appropriation of $30,000 for Section
2.11 be approved.
(1,11) The appropriation is approved.
(1.12) Section 2,12 - Science policy and organization of research. The Commissionunanimously  recommends that the General Conference adopt draft resolution 2,12,
(1.13) Draft resolution 2.12 is adopted,
(1.14) The General Conference takes note of the work plan for Section 2.12, sub-sections (a),  (b) and (d), and takes note of the work plan for Section 2,12, sub-section (c), to be amended as  indicated by the Programme Commission.
(1.15) The Commission recommends by 65 votes to none, with 4 abstentions, that the General  Conference approve an appropriation of $273,500 for Section 2,12.  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
(1.16) The appropriation is approved by 74 votes to none, with 7 abstentions.
(1.17) Section 2,13 - Promotion of fundamental research. The Commission unanimously recom-  mends draft resolutions 2.131, 2,132 and 2,133 for adoption. ;
(1.18) Draft resolution 2.131 is adopted.
(1.19) Draft resolution 2.132 is adopted.
(1.20) Draft resolution 2.133 is adopted.
(1.21) The Commission recommends that the General Conference take note of the work plan for  Section 2.13. The delegation of Chile has submitted a draft resolution on the subject,
(2) Mr. VALENZUELA (Chile) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr, President, I shall deal very briefly with this draft resolution, 16 C/DR. 227,  In the course of the discussions which took place both in the Science Sub-Commission and in the  plenary meeting of the Programme Commission it became evident that there was strong support  particularly in the developing countries, for the prosecution by Unesco of a major programme  on data processing, However, the resolutions approved leave a real gap that I have sought to  fill by means of a text which, since it has no budgetary repercussions and is in general line with  the thinking of the participating delegations, could be adopted unanimously. Thank you very much,
(3.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanirh):  I thank the delegate of Chile.
(3.2) I call on the Deputy Director-General,
4,1 Mr, ADISESHIAH (Deputy Director-General):  Mr. President, I have had an opportunity of talking to the Director-General about this  draft resolution 16 C/DR, 227, which applies to the work plan for this section of the pro-  gramme on fundamental research, related to the computer sciences. We have had in both  the Sub-Commission and the Programme Commission a detailed discussion of this pro-  gramme and I think I can say, Mr. President, on behalf of the Director-General, that he  will take this resolution into account in the execution of the work plan,
4.2 There are two comments I would like to make. 1 would ask the delegation of Chile,  the proposer, in the light of the Director-General's agreement to take this advice into con-  sideration in the execution of the work plan, not to ask for a vote on this, first, because  one does not normally vote on a work plan - and there is no disagreement on purposes here -  and secondly because it is rather difficult for the Director-General to say that in so far as  funds become available during the implementation of the 1971-1972 programme, he will put  any savings into this particular project; similar recommendations have been made to him  on the international university, on oceanography, on Man and the Biosphere, and so on,  Therefore this will be one among a number of competitors for any savings that may become  available apart from the usual directives of the Executive Board to put savings into meeting  additional costs of the programme voted,
4,3 My other comment, Mr. President, is that 1 agree with the delegation of Chile that  this is much more an answer to the question posed by the Director-General in document
16 C/4, where he very carefully posed the question about computer sciences and the future  of computer sciences in Unesco, I would take it, on behalf of the Director-General, that  this is an indication by the General Conference of one answer to the question he posed -  whether Unesco's resources should be used in this direction,
4,4 Therefore, in the light of this double explanation - first that the purposes of the draft  resolution are in line with the Director-General's thinking, since he intends to go forward  with the $60,000 computer sciences programme you have voted and will take into consider-  ation the suggestion made here as to the possible availability of further funds consonant  with the other claims that you have already voted or will be voting with regard to imple-  mentation; and secondly, that the Director-General will take this into consideration as a  directive for the future - in the light of this explanation I wonder whether the delegation of  Chile would agree that its recommendation should be simply noted, as we note all work  plans, and not be put to the vote.
(5.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Deputy Director-General.
(5.2) The delegate of Chile has nodded his acceptance of the Deputy Director-General's suggestion,
(5.3) The Commission has recommended by 28 votes to 6, with 5 abstentions, the adoption of the  Regular programme estimete for Section 2,13,  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
(5.4) The appropriation is approved by 76 votes to none, with 8 abatentions,
(5.5) Section 2.14 - Scientific and technical information, I - International Co-operation in Scien-  tific and technical information. ‘The Commission unanimously recommends that draft resolution
2.141 be adopted.
(5.6) Draft resolution 2,141 is adopted.
(5.7) The Conference takes note of the work plan for Section 2, 14(1).
(5.8) The Commission unanimously recommends that the Conference approve the estimate for  Section 2, 14(1).
(5.9) The appropriation is approved.
(5.10) II - Impact of Science on Society. The Commission unanimously recommends that draft  resolution 2.142 be adopted.
(5.11) Draft resolution 2,142 is adopted.
(5.12) The Conference takes note of the work plan for Section 2. 14(11).
(5.13) The Commission unanimously recommends that the estimate for Section 2. 14(11) be approved.
(5.14) The appropriation is approved.
(5.15) Staff and Budget for the Department of Science Policy and Promotion of Basic Sciences.  The Commission recommends by 35 votes to none, with 9 abstentions, that the Conference ap-  prove the appropriation of $1,184,300 for the staff of this Department,  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
(5.16) The appropriation is approved by 75 votes to none, with 8 abstentions.
(5.17) The Commission recommends by 14 votes to none, with 4 abstentions, that the Regular  programme estimate for Sub-Chapter 2.1 be approved,
(5.18) The appropriation is approved.
(5.19) Sub-Chapter 2.2 - Science Teaching and Technological Education and Research. The Com-  mission recommends by 72 votes to none, with one abstention, that draft resolution 2,20 be  adopted.
(5.20) Draft resolution 2,20 is adopted.
(5.21) Section 2.21 - Science Education, The Commission unanimously recommends that draft  resolution 2,21 be adopted,
(5.22) Draft resolution 2.21 is adopted,
(5.23) The Conference takes note of the work plan for Section 2.21,
(5.24) The Commission unanimously recommends that the proposed appropriation for Section
2,21 be approved,
(5.20) The appropriation is approved.
(5.26) Section 2.22 - Training of Technicians. The Commission unanimously recommends that  draft resolution 2,22 be adopted.
(5.27) Draft resolution 2.22 is adopted.
(5.28) The General Conference takes note of the work plan for Section 2,22.
(5.29) The Commission recommends by 15 votes to none, with 4 abstentions, that the proposed  appropriation for Section 2,22 be approved.
(5.30) The appropriation is approved.
(5.31) Section 2.23 - Engineering Education. The Commission recommends by 64 votes to none,  with 4 abstentions, that draft resolution 2.23 be adopted.
(5.32) Draft resolution 2.23 is adopted.
(5.33) The Conference takes note of the work plan for Section 2.23,
(5.34) The Commission recommends by 18 votes to none, with 4 abstentions, that the proposed  appropriation for Section 2,23 be approved.  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
(5.35) The appropriation is approved by 76 votes to none, with 9 abstentions.
(5.36) Section 2,24 - The Engineering Sciences and Research. The Commission unanimously  recommends that draft resolution 2, 24 be adopted.
(5.37) Draft resolution 2, 24 is adopted.
(5.38) The General Conference takes note of the work plan for Section 2.24.
(5.39) The Commission unanimously recommends that the Conference approve the appropriation  for Section 2.24.
(5.40) The appropriation is approved.
(5.41) Section 2.25 - Agricultural Education and Science,
(5.42) I call on the delegate of Pakistan,
6.1 Mr. KAMALUDDIN (Pakistan):  Thank you, Mr. President, for having given me this opportunity. I confess that I  should have made this intervention in the Sub-Commission on Science of the Programme  Commission; but better late than never,
6.2 In document 16 C/105 Part II - Sciences, paragraph 134, the last sentence goes like  this: "Several delegates drew attention to the importance of the introduction of social and  humanistic elements in addition to basic sciences in agricultural curricula". This, Sir, I  would like to see reflected in sub-paragraph (d) of the proposed draft resolution in para-  graph 31 under Section 2,25 - Agricultural Education and Science, Sub-paragraph (d)  reads: ''to provide advisory services to Member States, upon request, in the fields of  agricultural education and the agricultural sciences’. I would like to propose that after  the words "agricultural sciences", should be added the words: "including basic sciences  and social and humanistic studies'. This would then reflect the spirit of the remarks in-  cluded in the report, Thank you, Mr, President.
(7.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you. The delegate of Pakistan proposes that the words "including basic sciences and  social and humanistic studies’ be added to the end of paragraph (d). Has the Chairman of the  Commission any comment or objection? No.
(7.2) 1 call on the Director-General,
8.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL, -  Monsieur le Président, je comprends parfaitement l'esprit de la remarque faite par  M, le délégué du Pakistan, Celui-ci souhaiterait que l'on tienne compte de facteurs qui,  bien qu'extérieurs aux sciences agricoles proprement dites, intéressent cependant le déve-  loppement rural considéré dans son ensemble,
8.2 Mais je voudrais faire observer que, dans le cas présent, c'est bien sur l'enseigne-  ment et les sciences agricoles que doit essentiellement porter l'effort, Le crédit prévu  pour cet effort au titre du programme ordinaire (cf, 15 C/5, par, 640) est déjà très res-  treint : 228, 000 dollars en deux ans pour l'enseignement et les sciences agricoles dans l'en-  semble du monde, c'est véritablement très peu, Il ya, il est vrai, en dehors du programme  ordinaire, un certain norabre d'activités qui pourront être financées par le Programme des  Nations Unies pour le développement (que ce soit au titre de l'Assistance technique ou au  titre du Fonds spécial), Je pense cependant que, si vous acceptiez la proposition d'amende-  ment de M, le délégué du Pakistan, cela aboutirait à une dispersion de nos efforts, dont  l'efficacité se trouverait par-12 même considérablement réduite,
8,3 Je voudrais également faire valoir un autre argument : c'est que la division qui s'occupe  de l'enseignement et des sciences agricoles est une division très spécialisée qui n'est pas  compétente pour s'intéresser à des problèmes relevant des sciences sociales ou humaines,  Si elle devait le faire, cela nécessiterait, ce qui paraft fort peu opportun, une augmenta-  tion ou une modification de ses effectifs actuels, En tout cas, M, le délégué du Pakistan  sait sûrement qu'aucune résolution n'est traitée isolément, qu'aucune division du Secréta-  riat ne travaille en vase clos et, si cela peut le satisfaire, je puis lui donner l'assurance  que, dans la mesure où les Etats membres le souhaiteront, la division en question pourra  - en faisant appel, par exemple, au concours du Département des sciences sociales - veil-  ler à ce que les services consultatifs mentionnés au paragraphe (d) de la résolution 2,25  revêtent effectivement la forme qu'il a indiquée.
8,4 En somme, tout en comprenant l'esprit de la proposition de M, le délégué du Pakis-  tan, je pense que, pour les raisons que je viens de mentionner, son adoption risquerait  d'entraîner, dans l'exécution du programme correspondant, des perturbations peu oppor-  tunes, ln revanche, je suis prêt à donner à M, le délégué du Pakistan l'assurance que,  dans la mesure où les demandes des Etats membres le justifieront, on pourra, en faisant  appel à la coopération du Département des sciences sociales, s'orienter dans le sens qui  répondrait à ses voeux, Dans ces conditions, je lui serais très reconnaissant s'il voulait  bien, À cette heure tardive, ne pas insister pour faire accepter par la Conférence générale  un amendement comme celui qu'il avait en vue,
(9.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Director-General, Does the delegate of Pakistan agree? Good. Both the pro-  posal of the delegate of Pakistan and the Director-General's reply are arguments to be borne in  mind in due course.
(9.2) Draft resolution 2,25 is adopted.
(9.3) The Conference takes note of the work plan for Section 2.25.
(9,4) The Commission unanimously recommends that the proposed appropriation for Section 2.25  be approved.
(9.5) The appropriation is approved.
(9. 6) - Staff and appropriations for the Department of Science Teaching and Technological Educa-  tion and Research, The Commission unanimously recommends that the proposed appropriations  for the staff of the Department be approved. 1
(9.7) The appropriations are approved.
(9.8) The Commission recommends by 19 votes to none, with 5 abstentions, that the proposed  Regular programme appropriations for the Department be approved.  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
(9.9) The appropriations are approved by 77 votes to none, with 9 abstentions.
(9.10) 2.3 - Environmental Sciences and Natural Resources Research, Section 2,31 (Part I),  Integrated Natural Resources Research. The Commission unanimously recommends that draft  resolution 2.311 be adopted.
(9.11) Draft resolution 2,311 is adopted.
(9.12) The Conference takes note of the work plan for Section 2.31 (Part I).
(9.13) The Commission unanimously recommends that the proposed appropriation for Section
2.31 (Part I) be approved.
(9.14) The appropriation is approved.
(9.15) Part II, Promotion of Ecological Research. The Commission unanimously recommends  that draft resolution 2,312 be adopted.
(9.16) Draft resolution 2. 312 is adopted.
(9.17) The General Conference takes note of the work plan for Section 2,312.
(9.18) The Commission unanimously recommends that the Conference approve the proposed  Regular programme appropriation for Section 2.31 (Part II).
(9.19) Tie appropriation is approved.
(9.20) Section 2.32 - The Earth Sciences. 1. Geology and Related Sciences. The Commission  unanimously recommends that draft resolution 2.321 be adopted.
(9.21) Draft resolution 2,321 is adopted.
(9.22) The Conference takes note of the work plan for Section 2.32(I).
(9.23) The Commission unanimously recommends that the proposed Regular programme appro-  priation for Section 2. 32(I) be approved.
(9.24) The appropriation is approved.
(9.25) H. Geophysics and protection against natural disasters, The Commission recommends  that draft resolution 2. 322 be adopted.
(9.26) Draft resolution 2.322 is adopted.
(9.27) The Conference takes note of the work plan for Section 2,32(II),
(9.28) The Commission unanimously recommends that the proposed appropriation for Section
2.32(11) be approved.
(9.29) The appropriation is approved.
(9.30) The Commission unanimously recommends that the proposed Regular programme appro-  priation for the whole of Section 2. 32 be approved.
(9.31) The appropriation is approved,
(9.32) Section 2.33 - Hydrology. 1. Promotion of the general advancement of hydrology. The  Commission recommends unanimously, less 3 abstentions, that draft resolution 2. 331 be adopted.
(9.33) Draft resolution 2.331 is adopted.
(9.34) The Conference takes note of the work plan for Section 2.33 (Part 1).
(9.35) The Commission unanimonsly recommends that the Conference approve the proposed  Regular programme appropriation for Section 2. 33(1).
(9.36) The appropriation is approved.
(9.37) 11 - The International Hydrological Decade, The Commission recommends unanimously,  less 3 abstentions; that draft resolutions 2.333 and 2, 334 be adopted.
(9.38) Draft resolutions 2,333 and 2.334 are adopted.
(9.39) The Conference takes note of the work plan for Section 2.33 (Part II).
(9.40) The Commission unanimously recommends that the proposed Regular programme appro-  priation for Section 2, 33(11) be approved.
(9.41) The appropriation is approved.
(9.42) The Commission unanimously recommends that the proposed Regular programme appro:  priations for the whole of Section 2.33 be approved.
(9.43) The appropriations are approved,
(9.44) Section 2.34 - Oceanography, The Commission unanimously recommends that draft reso  lution 2, 341 be adopted.
(9.45) Draft resolution 2.341 is unanimously adopted.
(9.46) The Commission recommends that draft resolution 2. 3411 be adopted,
(9.47) 1 call on the delegate of the United States, Mr. Graham,
10.1 Mr. GRAHAM (United States of America):  Mr. President, as is indicated in the report of the Programme Commission, Chapter
2, paragraph 220, the draft resolution now identified as 2.3411 was presented to the Science  Sub-Commission just prior to its meeting and the United States delegation had very little  time to study it. My delegation accordingly reserved the right to come back to this ques-  tion in this plenary session, We have now had an opportunity to study the draft in detail  and we hereby indicate our support for it and its goal. ‘The United States considers that the  education and training of marine scientists is an extremely vital element in our efforts to  establish new capabilities in oceanography in the developing countries and to broaden such  capabilities where they already exist. Therefore, Mr. President, the United States would  like to note for the record its support for draft resolution 2,3411 as an important adjunct  to the work of Unesco's Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission in the education and  training of marine scientists, and to the activities in this area to be sponsored under the  offices of the IOC Fund-in-Trust as identified by the IOC Bureau and Consultative Council  at its eleventh session. We hope that these steps will be only the first of many to be taken  in this direction, Thank you, Mr, President,
(11.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Graham, The comments of the delegate of the United States refer to draft  resolution 2, 3411, in respect of which he has clarified his delegation's position and which I now  submit for adoption by the Conference,
(11,2) Draft resolution 2, 3411 is adopted.  {11,3) The General Conference takes note of the work plan for Section 2. 34(1).
(11.4) The Commission recommends by 27 votes to none, with 4 abstentions, that the proposed  appropriation for Section 2, 34(]) be approved.
(11.5) The appropriation is approved.
(11.6) Before we consider Part II, Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission, 1 call on  Mr. Baugniet, Chairman of the Legal Committee, who will present the report on draft amend-  ments to the Statutes of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission,  CONSIDERATION OF THE EIGHTH REPORT OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE/  EXAMEN DU HUITIEME RAPPORT DU COMITE JURIDIQUE/  EXAMEN DEL OCTAVO INFORME DEL COMITE JURIDICO/  PACCMOTPEHHE BOCBMOT'O JOKJIAIIA IOPHIHYECKOT'O KOMHTETA
15 UN inl pe LIN opis oi hal
12,1 M. BAUGNIET (Belgique), président du Comité juridique, -  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs les Jlégués, le Comité juridique a  étudié, au cours de ses huitième, neuvième, dixième et onzième séances, les documents
16 C/31 et 16 C/DR, 181 Rev, , relatifs aux statuts de la Commission océanographique inter-  gouvernementale,
12.2 Le Comité était er outre saisi d'une communication adressée à son Président par le  Président de la Sous-Commission des sciences (sous-commission II) ; elle constitue le do-  cument 16 C/LEG/INF, 1,
12.3 Le Comité juridique a entendu, sur la question dont 11 était saisi, une déclaration gé-  nérale du Sous-Directeur général pour les normes internationales et les affaires juridiques,  Celui-ci, après avoir noté que les statuts de la Commission océanographique intergouver-  nementale avaient été originellement adoptés par la Conférence générale à sa onzièmz ses-  sion (résolution 2, 31) et qu'elle les avait ultérieurement modifiés à sa treizième session  (résolution 2,2233), a retracé l'historique des faits'qui ont conduit la Commission, à sa  sixième session, à examiner la question des modifications à apporter à ces statuts et à  recommander un projet de statuts revisés pour que la Conférence générale l'adopte à sa  seizième session (résolution VI-3 de la Commission).
12,4 Le Comité juridique a pris note, à ce propos, de la déclaration du Sous-Directeur gé-  néral pour les normes internationales et les affaires juridiques selon laquelle, à l'excep-  tion de ceux qui ont trait à l'article 14, les amendements proposés dans le projet de réso-  lution figurant au paragraphe 7 du document 16 C/31 reprennent le texte du projet recom-  mandé par la Commission même,
12,5 Le Comité a alors procédé à l'examen des amendements qui sont contenus dans le pro-  jet de résolution figurant au paragraphe 7 du document 16 C/31, ainsi que des propositions
37  tendant à modifier certaines dispositions de ce projet de résolution, Ainsi qu'il était indi-  qué dans la communication du Président de la Sous-Commission II (sciences) au Président  du Comité juridique, l'une de ces propositions visait à modifier le troisième alinéa du  préambule de ce projet de résolution ; d'autres, émanant du Brésil, du Pérou et de  l'Equateur, concernaient l'article 2 du texte des statuts figurant dans ledit projet de réso-  lution, Le Comité juridique a alors invité les représentants de ces Etats à participer à la  discussion et ceux-ci ont fait des déclarations au sujet des propositions dont la Conférence  était saisie,
12,6 Le Comité juridique a noté que ces propositions soulevalent des questions juridiques  rentrant pleinement dans le cadre de sa compétence.
12.7 Il a également pris note des résultats du débat qui avait eu lieu à la Sous-Commis-  sion II (sciences) et qui étaient exposés dans la communication faite par le Président de  cette sous-commission,
12,8 Le Coinité juridique a commencé par examiner les amendements proposés aux sta-  tuts et formulés dans le projet de résolution, ainsi que les propositions de modification  des amendements, avant d'examiner le reste du projet de résolution,
12.9 En ce qui concerne l'article 2 du projet de statute, le Comité juridique a estimé qu'il  y avait lieu de modifier certaines versions des alinéas (a), (b), (c), (e), (f) et (g) pour les  rendre uniformes dans toutes les langues, Une observation analogue a été formulée au su-  jet du paragraphe 1 de l'article 9, ainsi qu'au sujet de l'article 12 où il est fait mention de  certaines organisations appartenant au système des Nations Unies, Le projet de résolution  qui a été annexé au rapport distribué sous la cote 16 C/104 tient compte des recommanda-  tions relatives au libellé de ces dispositions.
12,10 Passant à l'alinéa (i) de l'article 2 qui faisait l'objet d'amendements de la part de  la Sous-Commission des sciences (cf, 16 C/LEG/INF, 1), le Comité juridique a examiné  le texte qui en était donné au paragraphe 7 du document 16 C/381, ainsi que le texte de la  proposition de modification présentée par les délégations du Brésil, du Pérou et de l'Equa  teur sous la cote 16 C/DR, 181 Rev,
12,11 Au cours de la discussion de ces textes, la majorité des membres du Comité juri-  dique a considéré que l'amendement à l'article 2, alinéa (i), proposé dans le document
16 C/DR, 181 Rev, pouvait donner lieu à des interprétations diverses en droit internatio-  nal et qu'il convenait de trouver une rédaction qui ne donnerait pas l'impression que  l'Unesco prend position sur des questions ne relevant pas de sa compétence, Les délégués  de l'Argentine et de l'Uruguay, auxquels s'est joint l'observateur du Brésil, ont exprimé  une opinion contraire ; ils ont fait valoir que les mêmes arguments juridiques rendaient  inacceptable pour eux le projet contenu dans le document 16 C/31, et souligné que la Sous-  Comunission II (sciences) du programme avait donné son approbation à la proposition qui  figure dans le document 16 C/DR, 181 Rev, Le Sous-Directeur général pour les normes  internationales et les affaires juridiques a informé le Comité juridique des efforts déployés  par un certain nombre de ses membres et par les représentants du Brésil, du Pérou et de  l'Equateur, qui s'étaient réunis officieusement pour examiner les vues et suggestions ex-  primées et mettre au point un texte qui refletât, d'une part, l'opinion de ceux qui estimaient  que le texte de l'alinéa (1) devait mentionner la nécessité de favoriser la liberté des re-  cherches scientifiques concernant les océans au profit de l'humanité tout entière, compte  tenu de tous les intérêts et droits pertinents, comme prévu dans le projet d'amendement  figurant au paragraphe 7 du document 16 C/31, et, d'autre part, l'opinion de ceux qui esti-  maient que si une mention de ce genre figurait dans le texte il devait aussi être fait état,  sous une forme ou sous une autre, des intérêts et droits des Etats côtiers, comme le pro-  posaient le Brésil, le Pérou et l'Equateur dans leur projet d'amendement, Les efforts de  ce groupe avaient abouti à une proposition tendant à ajouter à l'alinéa (i) un membre de  phrase mentionnant les intérêts et les droits découlant de la juridiction des Etats côtiers,  et à ajouter à la fin de l'article 2 un nouveau paragraphe proclamant que cet article neten-  dait en rien à pre _dre position quant à la juridiction des Etats côtiers,
12,12 Apres avoir examiné cette proposition et tenu compte de diverses suggestions ten-  dant à simplifier le libellé, ainsi que d'autres observations faites par les représentants du  Brésil, du Pérou et de I'Equateur, le Comité juridique a recommandé à l'unanimité d'adop-  ter, comme libellé de l'alinéa (i) et de l'alinéa supplémentaire de l'article 2, le texte qui  figure dans le projet de résolution que vous trouverez à l'annexe I du rapport 16 C/104,
12,13 Le Comité juridique a examiné ensuite le texte de l'alinéa (j) de l'article 2, proposé  au paragraphe 7 du document 16 C/31, ainsi que la suggestion formulée par le Brésil, le  Pérou et l'Equateur dans le document 16 C/DR,181 Rev. , tendant à la suppression de cet  alinéa, À ce propos, le Comité juridique a été informé que le groupe mentionné plus haut  avait proposé de supprimer cet alinéa et de libeller comme suit la phrase introductive de  l'article 2 : "Les fonctions de la Commission sont, notamment, les suivantes, "
12,14 Après examen de ces diverses propositions, il a été suggéré que la phrase introduc-  tive de l'article 2 demeure telle qu'elle figurait au paragraphe 7 du document 16 C/31, mais  que l'on ajoute à l'alinéa (j) le membre de phrase suivant :"conformément aux décisions de  l'Assemblée ou du Conseil exécutif de la Commission océanographique intergouvernemen-  tale", La recommandation faite en ce sens par le Comité juridique a été incorporée au pro-  jet de résolution énoncé à l'annexe I du rapport qui vous est soumis,
12.15 Au cours de l'examen des articles 4 et 8, certains membres du Comité juridique ont  demandé que le rapport du comité indique qu'ils avaient exprimé l'opinion que tous les Etats,  et non pas seulement ceux qui sont membres d'une organisation du système des Nations  Unies, devraient pouvoir devenir membres de la Commission et que les représentants de  tous les Etats devraient de même pouvoir participer, sans droit de vote, aux réunions de  l'Assemblée, du Conseil exécutif et des organes subsidiaires de la Commission océano-  graphique intergouvernementale,
12,16 L'attention ayant été appelée sur une contradiction apparente entre le paragraphe 2  de l'article 5 et la première disposition du paragraphe 3 du même article, le Comité juri-  dique a recommandé l'inclusion au paragraphe 2 des mots "sans préjudice des dispositions  du paragraphe 3 du présent article",
12.17 Au cours de l'examen des mêmes paragraphes 2 et 3 de l'article 5, un membre du  Comité juridique a demandé qu'il soit consigné dans le rapport qu'il avait fait observer que  le rôle du Conseil exécutif de l'Unesco n'était pas mentionné dans ces paragraphes, Il a été  indiqué à cet égard que la compétence constitutionnelle de la Conférence générale et du Con-  seil exécutif de l'Unesco ne se trouvait modifiée en rien par les dispositions des statuts qui  avaient été soumis au Comité.
12,18 Enfin, en ce qui concerne les dispositions du paragraphe 4 (b) de l'article 5 touchant  le nombre d'Etats membres à élire au Conseil exécutif de la Commission, certains membres  du Comité juridique ont estimé que ce chiffre devrait être fixé dans les statuts et non dans  le Règlement intérieur de la Commission, D'autres membres du Comité, sans être hostiles  à une disposition permettant de fixer dans le Règlement intérieur de la Commission le  nombre des Etats membres, ont été d'avis que ce nombre ne devrait pas dépasser un maxi-  mum déterminé, qui serait soit de 14 Etats membres soit d'un quart au plus des membres  de la Commission, D'autres membres encore du Comité juridique se sont élevés contre la  fixation d'une limite quelconque et, à ce propos, ils ont établi une distinction entre la si-  tuation de la Commission océanographique intergouvernementale et celle d'autres orga-  nismes créés au sein de l'Unesco,
12.19 Par 6 voix contre 4, avec une abstention, le Comité juridique a recommandé que le  nombre d'Etats membres à élire au Conseil exécutif de la Commission ne dépasse pas le  quart des membres de la Commission et que soit ajouté au paragraphe 4 (b) de l'article 5  une disposition à cet effet, Le projet de résolution qui figure à l'annexe I du rapport du  Comité juridique tient compte de cette recommandation,
12.20 Au cours de l'examen du paragraphe 5 (c) de l'article 5 et du paragraphe 2 de l'ar-  ticle 7, on a fait observer qu'il pouvait être déduit du libellé du premier de ces textes que  la Commission prendrait à sa charge les frais des membres du Conseil exécutif, et que  cela n'était pas conforme au principe selon lequel ces frais sont normalement supportés  par l'Etat membre intéressé, Le Comité juridique a donc recommandé de supprimer dans  ces deux paragraphes les mots se rapportant aux frais, Il a recommandé en outre que le  texte du paragraphe 2 de l'article 7 soit précisé de façon à permettre à un Etat membre  d'envoyer aux sessions le nombre de délégués, de suppléants et de conseillers qu'il juge-  rait nécessaire, Le projet de résolution qui figure à l'annexe I tient compte de ces  recommandations.
12,21 En examinant l'article 13, le Comité juridique a relevé entre les versions en diffé-  rentes langues des divergences qui ont conduit ses membres à se demander si les pouvoirs  de la Conférence générale en matière d'amendements aux statuts de la Commission ne de-  vraient pas être limités à l'adoption de textes qui lui seraient recommandés par la Commis-  sion et que la Conférence générale n'aurait pas le droit de modifier. Après un débat surce  point, le Comité juridique a recommandé pour l'article 13 le texte qui figure dans le projet  de résolution dont vous êtes saisis,
12,22 A ce propos, le Comité juridique a jugé opportun d'appeler l'attention de la Commis-  sion océanographique intergouvernementale sur le fait qu'il serait souhaitable qu'elle pré-  voie dans son Règlement intérieur les modalités d'application de ce texte au cas où il se-  rait adopté par la Conférence générale,
12,23 En ce qui concerne l'article 14, le Comité juridique a pris note de la déclaration du  Sous-Directeur général pour les normes internationales et les affaires juridiques selon la-  quelle, alors que dans le projet recommandé par la Commission les statuts amendés entre-  raient en vigueur le dernier jour de la septième session de la Commission, dans le projet  d'amendement exposé dans le projet de résolution figurant au paragraphe 7 du document
16 C/31 les statuts amendés entreraient en vigueur immédiatement après la clôture de la  septième session de la Commission (cf, document 16 C/31, paragraphe 5).
12,24 En conséquence, et pour faciliter l'entrée en vigueur immédiate des dispositions re-  latives à l'élection des membres du Bureau, à l'élection des membres du Conseil exécutif  et au Règlement intérieur de la Commission, le Comité juridique a recommandé, sur pro-  position du groupe de travail officieux que j'ai déjà mentionné, d'inclure dans les statuts un  article supplémentaire constituant une disposition transitoire, Cette recommandation figure  à l'article 15 du projet de résolution reproduit à l'annexe I du rapport 16 C/104 (voir ver-  sion espagnole).
12.25 Ayant achevé l'examen des projets d'amendements aux statuts, -tels qu'ils figurent  dans le projet de résolution, et des propositions tendant à les modifier, le Comité juridique  est passé à l'étude du reste du projet de résolution, Après avoir pris note de !a proposition  de modification du troisième alinéa du préambule du projet de résolution et des résultats  des travaux de la Sous-Commission II (sciences) à ce sujet, tels qu'ils sont rapportés dans  la communication qui lui avait été adressée par le Président de cette sous-commission (do-  cument 16 C/LEG/INF. 1), le Comité juridique a recommandé l'adoption de cette proposi-  tion, Il en a été tenu compte dans le projet de résolution qui figure à l'annexe I du rapport,
12,26 Le Comité juridique croit donc pouvoir recommander à la Conférence générale l'adop-  tion de ce projet de résolution, Je tiens enfin à ajouter que, lors de la douzième séance  du Comité juridique, consacrée à l'adoption de son huitième rapport, le délégué de l'Ar-  gentine a indiqué qu'en raison d'instructions qu'il venait de recevoir de son gouvernement  il ne voterait en plénière ni le paragraphe (i) ni le paragraphe final de l'article 2 des sta-  tuts tels qu'ils avaient été adoptés par le Comité juridique, Le délégué de l'Uruguay a fait  une déclaration similaire, À la suite de ces déclarations, les délégués de la France, de  l'Union des républiques socialistes soviétiques, de la Bulgarie, du Royaume-Uni, de la Nor-
37  vège et des Etats-Unis d'Amérique ont exprimé leur regret de voir remettre en cause un  texte de compromis adopté unanimement par le Comité juridique et qui était le résultat de  concessions réciproques,
12,27 Telle est, Mesdames, Messieurs, la substance du rapport que le Comité juridique  a cru devoir établir à la suite de l'examen très minutieux qu'il a fait des projets de sta-  tuts dont il était saisi et dont il a essayé de faire, aussi parfaitement que possible, la  "toilette" juridique, Le Comité soumet à votre jugement le texte des statuts et de la réso-  lution qui figurent en annexe à son rapport,
(13.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Chairman of the Legal Committee. Once more I have the opportunity of com-  mending the persevering work of the Committee on all subjects within its competznce. The draft  resolution contained in Annex I of document 16 C/104 is now before the plenary meeting, There  are two draft amendments to this draft resolution, set out in documents 16 C/DR/PLEN/20 end
(13.2) I call on Ambassador Lastra, head of the delegation of Argentina,
(14.1) Mr. LASTRA (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President, the text which the delegation of Argentina is submitting to the plenary meet-  ing as an amendment to document 16 C/104 is the same in substance as what was proposed at the  Geneva Conference of the Disarmament Committee this year by the Union of Soviet Socialist Re-  publics, set out in document CCD/269/Rev,2 of 23 April, in preparation for the draft treaty for-  bidding the use of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction on the sea bed and  ocean floor and their sub-soil. This formula was drafted in its final stage in line with the pro-  posals of Argentina, India, Morocco, Pakistan and the United Arab Republic, and is largely  based on the Argentine working paper (A/C.1/997). The report was transmitted by the co-  Chairmen, namely the delegations of the United Siates of America and of the Soviet Union. The  draft treaty is at present being studied by the General Assembly of the United Nations and is on  the Agenda under Item 25, which reads: "Question of the reservation exclusively for peaceful  purposes of the sea bed and the ocean floor and the sub-soil thereof underlying the high seas be-  yond the limits of the present national jurisdiction and the uses of their resources inthe interests  of mankind", In short, it is a draft treaty presented by the United States and the Soviet Union,  revised by the Sea Bed Committee, of which my country has the honour to be a member.
(14.2) Mr. President, fellow delegates, my delegation regrets to have to submit an amendment  to the dictamen of the Legal Committee, but it cannot disregard the fact that this matter was de-  bated at length and that in the final count reservations were expressed by my delegation and that  of Uruguay, as the Chairman of the Legal Committee has just stated in his report.
(14.3) The matter remains directly connected with the scope of the functions of the Intergovern-  mental Oceanographic Commission as stated in paragraph (i) of Article 2 of the Statutes. Earlier  at the meetings in preparation for the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission, the sub-  ject was discussed at length and the delegation of Argentina, in the working group which met in  New York, even then proposed a formula similar to the one before you, supported by Brazil and  Trinidad and Tobago, as can be read in document SC/IOC/WG. 4/2. The purpose of this formula,  as of the inclusion of a specific reference to the rights of coastal countries in the areas under  their jurisdiction, is to prevent scientific research from being confused with "prospecting".
(14.4) In the final count, it is a question of amplifying and clarifying the final paragraph of Ar-  ticle 2 to remove any doubt about the purpose of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commis-  sion's activities to ensure that its functions are in conformity with its objectives and to protect  the rights and interests of coastal States, thus protecting the territorial rights of the developing  countries.
(14.5) Finally our delegation considers that the text it proposes is clearer and much more pre-  cise than that drawn up by the Legal Committee,
(15.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Ambassador Lastra.
(15.2) I call on Mr, Guimaraes, who will introduce the amendment contained in document
16,1 M, MACEDO-SOARES GUIMARAES (Brésil). -  Monsieur le Président, après de longues négociations, nous nous trouvons - au mo-  ment d'examiner en séance plénière le point 34 de l'ordre du jour ("Modifications aux sta-  tuts de la Commission océanographique intergouvernementale') - en présence de deux textes  différents, ce qui indique que l'on n'est pas parvenu à un plein accord sur la question. Tou-  tefois, la Commission du programme a déjà facilité la tâche de la Conférence générale en  indiquant que le désaccord ne porte que sur l'article 2 du projet de statuts,
16.2 Ledit article 2 énumère les fonctions de la Commission océanographique intergou-  vernementale, Il pose donc les jalons du chemin que devra suivre cet organisme dont l'ac-  tion est si importante pour tous nos pays.
16.3 La rédaction originale de cet article aurait imposé à la Commission une ligne d'ac-  tion qui n'aurait été conforme ni aux désirs ni aux préoccupations de la plupart des Etats  membres ; et cela pour deux raisons : d'abord parce que cette rédaction ne donnait pas aux  pays en voie de développement la certitude de pouvoir participer de plus en plus active-  ment aux recherches océanographiques qu'entreprendrait la Commission et, ensuite,  parce qu'elle ne sauvegardait pas les droits que les pays riverains entendent exercer sur  les zones comprises dans leurs juridictions nationales respectives,
16.4 Plusieurs des fonctions énumérées à l'article 2 ont trait à la promotion de la recherche  océanique, Mais on a voulu aller plus loin, C'est ainsi par exemple que s'exprime à l'ali-  néa (i) de cet article le principe de la liberté des recherches scientifiques concernant les  océans, Bien que ce principe ne soit consacré par aucun instrument juridique internatio-  nal, il a été accepté comme étant de nature à favoriser la conquête des nouveau. domaines  qui s'ouvrent à l'humanité, Mais depuis qu'a commencé, au sein de la COI, la discussion  de cette question, plusieurs pays ont souligné qu'il conviendrait de faire très clairement  référence à l'exception qui doit être apportée A ce principe de liberté et d'indiquer que, si  la liberté des recherches scientifiques concernant les océans peut être totale en dehors  des zones soumises à la juridiction des pays riverains, elle ne saurait exister dans les  zones soumises à cette juridiction, où prévaut un seul droit : celui des Etats riveraius qui  peuvent, le cas échéant, autoriser d'autres Etats à réaliser 1a des recherches scientifiques,  La COI est dès maintenant en train d'étudier, en vue de la simplifier et de l'uniformiser,  la procédure selon laquelle pourraient être accordées de telles autorisations ; et la sauve-  garde de ce droit souverain des pays riverains sera de toute façon de nature à encourager  ces pays à entreprendre par eux-mêmes, ou en association avec d'autres, l'étude systé-  matique des zones océaniques en question, ce qui est précisément l'un des objectifs de la  COI,
16.5 Telles sont, Monsieur le Président, les raisons pour lesquelles le Brésil, le Pérou  et l'Equateur avaient présenté un projet d'amendement au texte original contenu dans le do-  cument 16 C/31, La Sous-Commission des sciences exactes et naturelles a accepté cet  amendement à une importante majorité. La question a ensuite été considérée par le Comité  juridique, qui a alors cru devoir proposer, pour l'alinéa (i) de l'article 2, le texte qui fi-  gure à la page 2 du document 16 C/104, annexe I,
16,6 Or ce texte ne donne pas satisfaction aux pays en voie de développement ; et c'est  pourquoi un groupe représentatif de ces pays soumet aujourd'hui à la Conférence, en liai-  son avec des pays comme l'Argentine, l'Espagne, le Panama et l'Inde, le projet d'amen-  dement 16 C/DR/PLEN/21,
16.7 Si nous ne pouvons pas accepter l'alinéa (i) de l'article 2 sous la forme qui lui a été  donnée dans le document 16 C/104, annexe I, c'est en raison du caractère exclusif du droit  des pays riverains sur les zones soumises À leur juridiction, Il ne s'agit pas là d'un droit  parmi d'autres, mais du seul droit qui existe dans ces zones.
16,8 Quant aux droits et intérêts dont le respect s'impose en dehors des zones en ques-  tion, il n'y a pas lieu de craindre que la COI omette d'en tenir compte, En effet l'expres-  sion ‘liberté des recherches scientifiques concernant les océans" vise à sauvegarder  - pour ce qui est de la possibilité d'étudier tous les aspects des océans en dehors des zones  soumises à la juridiction nationale des Etats riverains - les droits et intérêts de tous les  pays du monde, qu'ils aient ou non un littoral,
16,9 Monsieur le Président, les progrès réalisés dans le domaine des sciences de la mer  ouvrent un chapitre nouveau dans l'évolution des connaissances et des techniques, Il va en  résulter de nouvelles entreprises qui intéressent toute l'humanité ; et les pays en voie de  développement ne sauraient en aucun cas rester à l'écart de ces entreprises. Telle est la  raison pour laquelle nous ne pouvons pas céder sur la question de principe à laquelle il  vient d'être fait allusion ; et si nous insistons pour faire accepter notre amendement, c'est  parce que cela nous donnerait la garantie de pouvoir participer vraiment a cette nouvelle  conquête des mers, qui va cette fois se faire au nom de la paix et du développement, La  Conférence générale de 1'Unesco ne saurait dénier ce droit et cette aspiration aux pays du  Tiers Monde,
16,10 Enfin, puisqu'il s'agit là d'un point qui a déjà été longuement débattu dans les com-  missions de la Conférence générale, la délégation du Brésil suggère respectueusement,  Monsieur le Président, que la question soit maintenant immédiatement mise aux voix,
(17,1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Guimaraes, The plenary meeting has before it the draft prepared by the  Legal Committee; to which two amendments have been submitted: one of them, submitted by the  delegate of Brazil, is to change the wording of Article 2 of the Statutes of the Intergovernmental  Oceanographic Commission and omit paragraph (j) of that Article; and the other, submitted by  the delegation of Argentina is to add to the end of Article 2 the text contained in DR.20. 1 ac-  cordingly declare the discussion open on the three documents, ’
(17.2) 1 call on Ambassador Escudero, head of the delegation of Ecuador.
(18.1) Mr. ESCUDERO (Ecuador) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr, President, fellow delegates, the draft amendments to the Statutes of the Intergovern-  mental Oceanographic Commission laid down as one of the functions of the Commission that set  out in Article 2, paragraph (i), in the following terms: to "promote freedom of scientific inves-  tigation of the oceans for the benefit of mankind, taking into account all relevant rights andinterests".
(18.2) The delegations of Brazil, Peru and Ecuador proposed that paragraph (1) be modified to  read as follows: "promote freedom of scientific investigation of the oceans for the benefit of  mankind, taking into account all interests and rights of coastal countries concerning scientific  research in the zones under their jurisdiction".
(18,3) The problem which gave rise to this amendment, which is contained in document 16 C/DR. 18},  was one of the most lengthily discussed and controversial of our Conference, first in the Sub-  Commission on Natural Sciences of the Programme Commission, and then in the Legal Commit-  tee, which the delegates of Brazil, Peru and Ecuador, attended as observers.
(18.4) At this stage there emerges the objective and irreversible fact which the Programme  Commission and, in particular, the plenary meeting of the General Conference, in its capacity  as supreme organ of our Organization, never could and cannot now overlook - namely that the  amendment by Brazil, Peru and Ecuador, which I have quoted, was adopted in the Science Sub-  Commission by a considerable majority, 28 votes having been in favour and 13 against, with 6  abstentions. This meant that the Conference, at its initial level of deliberation, in principle re-  vised the Statutes of the Oceanographic Commission, by the incorporation in this of the amend-  ment in question, after which it would be for the plenary meeting of the General Conference, to  concur, as we want, with the conclusions of the Sub-Commission on Natural Sciences.
(18.5) After the approval of the amendment, the Deputy Director-General, acting on instructions  from the Director-General, suggested that a small good offices group be established to attempt  to reconcile the views of the authors of the approved amendment and the views of an opposition  consisting in the main of the Great Powers pursuing cryptic interests under the innocent appear-  ance of the alleged exercise of their freedom of scientific research,
(18.6) The Science Sub-Commission did not accept this suggestion because acceptance would  have meant that, assuming that one or more delegations disagree with any vote rejecting the ar-  guments or standpoints voted, could propose that similar good offices groups be set up, to fight  the deciaion taken, That way, the present Conference would not last for the thirty-three days  allotted to it but for the whole three hundred and eixty-five days of the calendar year, while an  inadmissible legal precedent would be established and they would end with a latter-day version  of the Greek legend of Penelope weaving and unweaving her cloth,
(18.7) The amended draft, went on for consideration by the Legal Committee, where there was  another complex and intricate discussion culminating in the adoption of a so-called compromise  formula, about which the delegation of Ecuador expressed reservations. This formula consists  in replacing paragraph (1) of Article 2 of the Statutes by the following form of words: "promote  freedom of scientific investigation of the oceans for the benefit of all mankind, taking into ac-  count all relevant interests and rights, including those deriving from the jurisdiction of coastal  States". As will be noted, this so-called compromise formula says nothing about where this  sovereign jurisdictional right applies because the new text omits the words "jurisdictional zones"  found in the amendment approved by the Sub-Commission. Furtharmore, the Legal Committee  added a final paragraph to Article 2 ruling that "nothing in this Article shall be construed as an  opinion on the nature or extent of the jurisdiction of the coastal States in general or of any coas-  tal State in particular".
(18.8) 1 consider it essential to distinguish between the decision adopted by the Sub-Commission  on Natural Sciences and the mere recommendation of the Legal Committee, which is essentially  an advisory body; whereas the first constitutes the basis of the final decision which only the  plenary of the Conference can adopt, the recommendation is simply an opinion or dictamen which  is not mandatory and which, in the view of my delegation, should not be accepted. The explana-  tion of this is quite simple and lies in the nature of the Conference's institutions; in the Sub-  Commissions, Commisaions and plenary all 125 Member States of Unesco are represented, only
21 Member States are represented in the Legal Committee. Therefore the Legal Committee,  which only has advisory powers, cannot be on an equal footing with those organs of the Confer-  ence which have decision-making powers.
(18,9) I do not wish to go over everything I said in the Sub-Commission on Natural Sciences re-  garding the issue. I shall just recall that the original wording of paragraph (i) of Article 2, as  drafted by the Oceanographic Commission, displayed the absurdest kind of vagueness and am-  biguity. Speaking of the relevant rights and interests", without specifying and defining them,  as 1 requested, really was incomprehensible. Iwasassuredat the time that nothing inthe Statutes  was of a juridical character, but nobody answered my question as to why, if nothing in the Sta-  tutes was intended to deal with a point of law, the Oceanographic Commission had referred to  relevant rights. Nobody can proper’y argue that when a text alludes to certain rights, it is not  juridical in nature,
(18.10) The amendment by Brazil, Peru and Ecuador embodied in the Statutes for that reason  substituted for the vague and ambiguous paragraph (i) of Article 2 the concrete notion that un-  mistakable, unambiguous reference should he made to the sovereign right of coastal States over  the zones under their jurisdiction.
(18.11) Then came the formula approved by the Legal Committee including inthe mysterious group  of relevant rights and interests, the rights and interests deriving from the jurisdiction of coastal  States, without indicating the zones over which that jurisdiction extended, and then enshrining,  in the final paragraph of Article 2, the Solomon-like sentence that nothing in the text constitutes  an opinion on the nature or extent of the jurisdiction of coastal States.
(18.12) 1 must, in the first place, categorically assert an essential argument, namely that the  so-called freedom of scientific investigation in the oceans ia not specified in the Geneva Conven-  tions, to which, moreover, Latin American States, like the Republic of Ecuador, are not parties.
(18,13) Within the overall concept of the freedom of the seas which the classic mare liberum  proclaims, the only freedoms originally included were freedom of navigation and freedom of  commerce within the space defined as the high seas or international waters, Subsequently, in  virtue of a custom recognized by the international community, the freedom to fish and to lay  submarine cables was accepted.
(18.14) For all the preceding considerations, this very new invention of the freedom of scienfi-  fic investigation cannot be accepted juridically because it has not been established either by in-  ternational convention or by customary law. And here I am going to be utterly frank because this
37  is how it should be in Unesco and it is the way I have always spoken when representing my coun-  try in the international world, The postulate of freedom of scientific investigation is not of a  disinterested or academic nature or mark in principle. It does not spring from any elevated  idealism or romanticism. It is a freedom invoked for the practical purposes of exploiting the  enormous natural wealth of the water mass, the ocean beds, and ocean sub-soil of the world in  certain disregard of the sovereignty of the small countries which cannot, on account of their own  indigence and inferior development, command the tremendous resources of the ma jor powers  for such research, which is not confined solely to the realm of pure science.
(18.15) When the desire was expressed in the Legal Committee to find a formula effecting a fair  reconciliation between the freedom of sciantific research in the oceans and the jurisdiction of  the coastal States, 1 asked that - just as it was explicitly stated in the final paragraph of Article
2, that no prejudgement was being made regarding the nature and extent of that jurisdiction - it  should likewise be stipulated, inthe name of law and logic, that no prejudgement was being made re-  garding the nature and extent of the freedom postulated. As was to be expected, my words were  spoken quite in vain because it would appear that the will of big States is tobe respected as though  this were some unassailable dogma.
(18.16) It is, however, imperative to recall that Article 2, paragraph (1) of the Charter of  the United Nations, of which Unesco is a Specialized Agency, lays down the supreme principle of  the sovereign equality of States. We all know that the Great Powers, which have permanent  seats on the United Nations Security Council, exercise the right of veto on matters other than  procedural, But in the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, these  big nations do not exercise this all-powerful right of veto, save as our gratuitous complaisance  may have accorded it to them,
(18,17) It will suffice far me to recall, on the other hand, that resolution 5 of the recent confer-  ence on certain fundumental sections of Maritime Law, held at Lima and attended by twenty Latin  American States, la’d down as a primary condition of scientific investigation of the ocean that  within the zones of their juridiction such research was subject to authorization by the concerned  coastal States. This is therefore a right asserted in common by all Latin America which we  shall never renounce and which we shall unyieldingly defend.
(18.18) The major problem I have examined represents one of the crucial fronts in the vast con-  flict between rich countries and poor countries, between the highly-developed countries and those  that are painfully striving towards development. I feel entitled to hope that all the developing  countries met together in Unesco will associate themselves with our argument and our stand  by voting for the amendment approved in the Sub-Commission on Natural Sciences and against  the final paragraph of Article 2 as drafted by the Legal Committee or any other wording which  may be submitted subsequently. My hope is based on the community of our aspirations and on  the identity of our higher destinies,
(18,19) It is also my fervent hope that the major nations which strive to dispense social justice  to their citizens will not deny the supreme gift of justice to the small nations, because justice is  a whole and because human solidarity is indivisible.
(19.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr, Escudero,
(20.1) Mr. LLOSA (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  On behalf of the delegation of Peru, as one of the countries sponsoring the draft resolution  to amend Annex 1 of document 16 C/104, which is supported by 35 countries representing Third  World States of Latin America, Africa and Asia, I wish to comment briefly on two main objec-  tions to the draft amendment raised in the course of the long and detailed discussion to which it  gave rise. The first was that it introduced problems of international law with which neither  Unesco nor the Oceanographic Commission wae competent to deal. Fortunately this objection  has been removed and we note with satisfaction that there is an enormous difference between the  initial draft modification to the Statutes of the Oceanographic Commission, in which vagus men-
37  tion was made of relevant rights, and the draft now submitted to us by the Legal Committee  where express mention is made of the jurisdiction of coastal States.
(20.2) But there is still the other objection, Mr. President. At one point the remark was made that  these coastal States among the developing countries are setting, or could set, obstacles in the way of  oceanographic investigation. We deny this, first and foremost on logical grounds: who can have  a greater interest than the developing countries in associating themselves with scientific research  and taking part in it? This is the spirit, intention and rationale of the amendment we are advo-  dating: the developing countries, as coastal States of the seas where the research is proceeding,  wishto associate themselves with it and share in its benefits, and they wish to be certain that it  is purely scientific investigation and not also economic or even military. Logic, then, convinces  us of the soundness of this proposal which aims to associate developing coastal countries with  oceanographic research.
(20.3) But, in addition, I do not wish my words to be taken as the sole guarantee of what I am  affirming: there is a public agreement, at least so far as the countries of Latin America are  concerned, arrived at a conference on aspects of maritime law held at Lima in August 1970. It  was attended by twenty Latin American States and observers from Europe and Africa and from  several international organizations. At it a Latin American doctrine was established on oceano-  graphic research as one of the problems entering into maritime law.
(20.4) 1am going to read out the points contained in this resolution to enlighten this assembly  on the rights, powers and guarantees to which coastal States aspire, in this particular case those  of Latin America, I quote: First to recommend to the governments taking part in this meeting  a permanent exchange of ideas serving towards the co-ordination and harmonization of their  positions in the various forums in which the legal problems of ocean scientific research are  dealt with; to reaffirm that any scientific investigation carried out within the maritime jurisdic-  tion of any State is subject to the prior authorization of such State and must respect the condi-  tions laid down in the authorization; that the coastal State concerned has the right to take part in  any investigation carried out within its jurisdiction and to have the benefit of data yielded by the  research; and that all specimens obtained in the course of such research are the property of the  State in whose jurisdiction it is conducted, and may only be appropriated by the party carrying  out the research if the State in question gives its express consent; and that any scientific inves-  tigation authorized as such must respect its strict and exclusive scientific nature.
(20.5) These are the points to which, in the Latin American States, the right to participate in,  be associated with and authorize scientific research in waters under national jurisdiction are re-  ducible. This is the intention behind the amendment we are submitting for your consideration  and this is why Peru is sponsoring it, and I can state in advance that my delegation too, inspired  by the same spirit, supports and will vote for the draft amendment submitted by Argentina. Thank  you very much,
(21.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Ambassador Llosa.
(21.2) I call on Mr, Graham, delegate of the United States.
22.1 Mr. GRAHAM (United States of America):  Mr. President, we have now reached the end of two years' work on the statutes which  will govern the future development of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission  and its long-term programme of ocean research. The next-to-last step in our work was  completed last week when the Legal Committee of the General Confr;rence considered the  draft statutes as submitted by the IOC, together with the amendments recommended by the  Programme Commission's Sub-Commission on Science, and prepi.red the final draft of  these statutes, which is before us today.
22.9 The United States has supported both at the IOC's sixth session and at this Conference,  the adoption of the statutes as originally proposed by the IOC on the ground that they rep-
37  resent a carefully-considered and well-balanced document which would enable the 10C to  manage effectively its growing responsibilities. At this Conference a number of amend-  ments to those statutes have been proposed, both in the Sub-Commission on Science and in  the Legal Committee, The United States was opposed to many of these amendments and we  have so indicated on numerous occasions. However, we feel that it is extremely important  for the Conference to reach a consensus on this issue. If we reach a point at which IOC  Member States feel compelled to vote against the statutes that will govern their future par-  ticipation in 10C it seems hardly likely that the IOC will be able to expect of those States  the whole-hearted co-operation that is necessary in order for it to achieve its goal.
22.3 The United States has therefore supported the efforts of the Legal Committee to con-  sider all of the recommended amendments and to include them in the statutes in the appro-  priate legal manner, in order to assure that the substance of the amendments is retained  in such a way that Unesco and IOC, as well as their Member States, are not placed in a  compromising position regarding the legal aspects of the statutes.
22,4 The Legal Committee, although composed of only 21 States, as the delegate of Ecua-  dor just pointed out, is nevertheless a fully representative group in which all points of view  on this matter were discussed. This Committee, consisting of Argentina, Belgium, Bul-  garia, Canada, Ceylon, France, Ghana, Guinea, India, Lebanon, Norway, Pakistan, Rwanda,  Sierra Leone, Uganda, USSR, United Arab Republic, United Kingdom, United States of  America, Uruguay and Yugoslavia, has unanimously presented to the General Conference  a report which fully satisfied the objectives I have just noted,
22.5 We therefore strongly endorse the report of the Legal Committee and urge the Gen-  eral Conference to adopt the new statutes of the IOC as presented in this report. There  are also before us this afternoon two draft resolutions: DR/PLEN/21 recommends that the  statutes as approved by the Legal Committee be amended in such a way that the resulting  draft would be exactly the same as that recommended to the Legal Committee by the Science  Sub-Commission. As I have noted above, the Legal Committee has already considered  these items. It has, in fact, included the substance of the first part of the draft resolution  of sub-parabraph (i) of Article 2 in a manner which safeguards the legal rights and legal  position of all parties concerned, especially those of coastal States. In the case of sub-  paragraph (j) of Article 2, the Legal Committee agreed to include a modified version of  this item in the statutes, This sub-paragraph, as modified, provides the IOC with the  flexibility it needs to deal with unexpected problems. At the same time, it assures that  any actions taken under the provision of this sub-paragraph are taken by the appropriate  organ of the Commission consisting of the representatives of sovereign States,
22.6 DR/PLEN/20, submitted by Argentina, proposes to substitute for the disclaimer pro-  posed by the Legal Committee a much more detailed disclaimer, taken from the draft treaty  on the sea beds now under consideration by the United Nations General Assembly. My dele-  gation considers that this new disclaimer, although perhaps appropriate for a treaty which  commits signatory States to its provisions, is unnecessary in the statutes of a scientific  commission such as the IOC. The disclaimer recommended by the Legal Committee was  originally proposed by an eminent and respected jurist, and agreed to by the Committee as  legally fulfilling the need for such a disclaimer in this context. We see no need for rejecting  the Legal Committee's carefully-considered opinion on this matter and therefore we oppose  the adoption of DR/PLEN/20. Thank you, Mr. President.
(23.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Graham.
(24.1) Mr. GALLARDO (El Salvador) (Translation froin the Spanish):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, I wish first to pay tribute to each of the speakers I have
37  just heard, particularly the Chairman of the Legal Committee, a colleague and with me the co-  founder of two faculties of comparative law in Europe: one in Luxembourg and the other in  Strasbourg.
(24.2) I personally consider the Report of the Legal Committee a little timid, but I believe it  constitutes a safe, firm and positive basis for further work at future Unesco conferences, On
28 September 1945, the then President of the United States claimed the continental shelf, with  all the resources of the sea, for the United States, as also the resources in the sub-soil and in  the sea itself below depthe of 200 feet. Over this section of the sea the United States affirmed  its full jurisdiction and also argued that this principle and this declaration did not in the slightest  degree affect the character of the high seas, On 29 October of the same year the President of  Mexico took exactly the same stand and declared Mexico's sovereignty in respect of the right of  exclusive exploitation of the products of the sea and of the resources of the ocean bed and sub-  soil. Both declarations were accepted unreservedly in the Convention of 29 April 1958 by the  first United Nations Conference on Maritime Law. The United Kingdom has a basic principle to  the effect that, as regards various counties in it, the sea and its resources also belong to it with  the same exclusive jurisdiction, The Maritime Conference of 1962 merely dealt with territorial  limits at sea.
(24.3) The Legal Committee of our own international institution is properly authorized to put  problems to us and submit proposals to us, and we have the right to reject or accept them.  Unesco has before it a problem that is very easy to understand: in countries relying on the pro-  ducts of the sea for the bulk of their food and possessing riches in the sub-soil of their continen-  tal platform, education, science and culture will never be able to prosper unlesa the develop-  ment and exploitation of these riches can be pursued in complete freedom. It is not at this meet-  ing that such problems can be solved, if there be anything only nascent, it is maritime law,
(24.4) For my small country, the most populous of the entire American continent, the sea or  more exactly, the Pacific Ocean is of capital importance. Mankind is at presenting facing very  great difficulties, which have already been stated by Socialist or Communist authors like Marx  and Engels, and the thing is that the period of geographical discovery is over; it is now a matter  of making better use of the resources at our disposal.
(24.5) Albert Camus used to say that the beat revolution is that which after its accomplishment  lets freedom, once achieved, continue on its way. Knowledge and exploitation of the sea by coastal  countries is basic for education, science and culture. I must therefore say plainly that my dele-  gation will vote in favour of the Report of the Legal Committee, as amended. We cannot vote for  the amendment of Argentina, first, because we have not been consulted and, second, because in  my view the amendment of Argentina suffers from a major defect in that it leaves all Member  States a loophole in respect of existing international conventions to which they are parties; as a  result of that country's failure to refer to its own domestic legislation, that is, its constitutional  system and particular laws that make it impossible to approve a motion of this sort, Therefore  I cannot concur with the amendment of Argentina, The delegation of my modest country will ac-  cordingly vote in favour of ‘he Report of the Legal Committee, with the amendment proposed by  the group of countries, including El Salvador. I would further say that after the words "all in-  terests and rights" 1 myself would have added "the preferential rights of coastal States'',
(25.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Gallardo.
(25.2) I call on Mr. Hela, delegate of Finland.
26,1 Mr. HELA (Finland):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, on behalf of the delegation of Finland, another small  country, I wish to make some comment on the various texts concerning Article 2, para-  graph (i), before us, In September 1969, the sixth session of the International Oceanographic  Commission decided to revise the statutes of the IOC and established a group of experts  for that purpose. The group of experts recommended that the said paragraph (i) of Article
2 should read "promote freedom of scientific investigation of the ocean for the benefit of  all mankind taking into account all relevant interest and rights". This formula was accep-  table to my delegation,
26,2 The Legal Committee of the General Conference, however, decided unanimously to  add to the words: "including those deriving from the jurisdiction of coastal States". The  Legal Committee decided, also unanimously, to add a new, explanatory paragraph to  Article 2: "Nothing in this article shall be construed as implying the expression of a posi-  tion regarding the nature or extent of the jurisdiction of coastal States in general or of any  coastal State in particular". My delegation is prepared to accept this formula too.
26,3 Mr. President, my delegation fully understands that even the freedom of scientific  investigation, in this case of the ocean, must be subject to some restrictions and obey the  generally-accepted rules of international law. We believe that the text recommended by  the Legal Committee should give full satisfaction to everybody. Indeed we believe that this  formula is a compromise between all the different opinions concerning the limits of com-  petence to be given to the IOC. In our opinion Unesco should not make a pronouncement on  a controversial issue pertaining to international law and should leave its further elabora-  tion to the United Nations and to its Committee on the Sea and the Ocean Floor. Mr, Presi-  dent, the Finnish delegation believes that as long as the United Nntions has not solved the  political and legal issues involved, we in Unesco should not give to national claims and  legislation the status and character of international law, We are not competent to do so,  Foi ‘hese reasons, Mr, President, the delegation of Finland will vote against the amend-  ment in document 16 C/DR/PLEN/20 and DR/PLEN/21 and will vote in favour of the re-  commendation of the Legal Committee. Thank you.
(27.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr, Hela,
(27.2) I call on Mr. Burgess, delegate of the United Kingdom.
28,1 Mr. BURGESS (United Kingdom):  Thank you, Mr. President, My delegation understands the misgivings of at least some  of the thirty-one countries that have co-sponsored draft resolution 16 C/DR/PLEN/21, al-  though we find the company a strangely varied one. We do not consider that these mis-  givings are justified or well-founded but we do understand them, For this reason we were  prepared to accept the compromise formula presented by the Legal Committee, and indeed  we co-operated actively in formulating it.
28,2 It might be held, Mr. President, that the alternative phrasing of sub-paragraph (i)  of Article 2 now presented in document 16 C/DR/PLEN/21 does not go very much further  than the Legal Committee's text, and we might have had some sympathy with that argument  had it been put forward. But it has not, Mr, President.
28.3 What has been suggested is that the Legal Committee of this General Conference is  no more than a conciliation committee, the main purpose of which is to modify or to re-  verse decisions that are unpalatable to certain groups or interests within the Conference.  My delegation does not accept this interpretation of the Legal Committee's functions,  Mr. President, and indeed we find it highly objectionable. For this reason, and on the  merits of the case, we would urge the Conference to accept the Legal Committee's text,  which was unanimously accepted when it was first presented, and to reject the alternative  proposed in 16 C/DR/PLEN/21,
28.4 With regard to 16 C/DR/PLEN/20 presented by the delegation of Argentina,  Mr. President, we believe again that the safeguard proposed by the Legal Committee in  the final paragraph of Article 2, and again accepted unanimously within the Committee at  the time, fully meets the need to emphasize tiie nature of the International Oceanographic  Commission as an organization primarily concerned not with international or national law  but with scientific research. My delegation considers that by reason of its origins, the  formula presented by the delegation of Argentina in this draft resolution is'totally out of  place in this context and we will vote against it. Thank you, Mr. President.
(29.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Burgess,
(29.2) 1 call on Miss Martin-Sané, delegate of France,
30.1 Mlle MARTIN-SANE (France), -  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais d'abord faire un petit historique - aussi bref que  possible - et rappeler que le texte qui nous est soumis par le Comité juridique est, comme  ont dit plusieurs délégués avant moi, le résultat d'un compromis entre le texte initial ap-  prouvé par la Commission océanographique intergouvernementale et un texte approuvé par  la Sous-Commission des sciences,
30, . Ayant eu le privilège de participer aux débats de la Commission océanographique in-  tergouvernementale, je rappellerai que le texte initial avait été approuvé à une grande ma-  jorité, et que la plupart des pays en voie de développement représentés à la Commission  l'avaient accepté,
30.3 Ce texte est donc un compromis entre des opinions divergentes et le fruit de conces-  sions réciproques. Il procède du souci d'éviter que l'Unesco ne prenne position sur des do-  maines qui sont hors de sa compétence ; l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies va d'ail-  leurs en débattre d'ici quelques jours dans le cadre du point de son ordre du jour intitulé  "Droit de la mer" et elle a déjà été saisie de plusieurs projets de résolution visant à orga-  niser une conférence générale sur le droit de la mer, Cette question appartient donc à  l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies et n'est en aucune manière du ressort de l'Unesco,  C'est pourquoi ma délégation a accepté le compromis qui se trouve reflété dans le docu-  ment 16 C/104, et y a même participé,
30.4 En ce qui concerne les deux projets d'amendements qui nous sont soumis, Monsieur  le Président, je constate que le document 16 C/31 ne traite en fait que des droits et inté-  rêts des Etats riverains, Or le Programme élargi de recherches océanographiques mis en  place par la Commission océanographique intergouvernementale intéresse tous les Etats  riverains ou non riverains, industrialisés ou en voie de développement ; bien que je n'aie  nullement l'intention de faire ici un cours de science, je me permets de souligner l'intérêt  que présente pour tous le programme d'opérations touchant l'interaction océan-atmosphère,  qui a une influence considérable sur le plan scientifique tant dans le domaine de la météoro-  logie que dans celui de l'océanographie, J'ajouterai qu'aux Nations Unies, à l'heure actuelle,  on envisage de décider que les fonds marins situés au-delà des limites de la juridiction na-  tionale seront le patrimoine commun de l'humanité tout entière ; il est clair dès lors que  les recherches qui seront faites intéresseront tous les pays, qu'ils aient ou n'uient pas de  littoral,
30.5 Au cours des débats de la Commission océanographique intergouvernementale aux-  quels il m'a été donné de participer, je dois dire que je n'ai jamais perçu chez les scienti-  fiques cette espèce d'antinomie entre deux groupes - les nantis et les non-nantis - qu'a si
37  éloquemment évoquée tout à l'heure M, le délégué de l'Equateur, Comment ne regretterais-  je pas que, dans une institution spécialisée comme la nôtre, ce genre d'argument soit mis  en avant pour défendre en fait les intérêts de quelques pays ?
30.6 En ce qui concerne le dernier amendement qui nous est proposé par l'Argentine dans  le document 16 C/DR/PLEN/20 et qui, si j'ai bien compris, vient en complément du pro-  jet d'amendement soumis par un certain nombre de pays, je note, Monsieur le Président,  qu'il a été établi d'après l'article IV du Projet de traité de dénucléarisation des fonds ma-  rins, Or cet article IV a été conçu dans un contexte ; de plus, il l'a été en fonction de l'ar-  ticle II qui se réfère à certaines parties de la Convention de 1958 sur la mer territoriale  et la zone contigu&, Il me paraft donc difficile de sortir l'article IV de ce contexte pour le  replacer dans celui, beaucoup moins solennel, des statuts de la Commission océanogra-  phique, En outre, je voudrais faire remarquer que le texte du traité n'a pas encore été ap-  prouvé par l'Assemblée générale ; il n'en est qu'au stade de la discussion en première  commission, et il me semblerait imprudent d'introduire dans les statuts de la- Commission  océanographique intergouvernementale un texte qui n'est pas encore approuvé par 1'Assem-  blée générale des Nations Unies : qu'adviendra-t-il si elle décide de le modifier ?
30.7 Pour conclure, Monsieur le Président, je tiens à insister de nouveau sur l'atmosphère  dans laquelle se déroulent les débats de la Commission océanographique intergouvernemen-  tale qui est une atmosphère de pleine coopération entre pays en voie de développement et  pays développés, les uns ayant besoin des autres, D'ailleurs, les textes des statuts, tels  qu'ils sont actuellement, précisent que la Commission doit renforcer les programmes d'édu-  cation et de formation et favoriser les échanges de données scientifiques afin que les résul-  tats soient accessibles à tous, Je ne vois pas là cette sorte d'antagonisme dont il a été  question tout à l'heure et qui, malheureusement, a recueilli un certain nombre d'applaudis-  sements dans cette enceinte,
(31.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Miss Martin-Sané.
(31.2) I call on Mr. Inglés, delegate of the Philippines.
32,1 Mr. INGLES (Philippines):  Thank you, Mr. President, The Philippine delegation would like to invite attention to  certain historical rights, such as those proceeding, for example, from international action  such as the Treaty o! Paris, which terminated a war between Spain and the United States  of America, at the close of the last century, and established the limits of the territorial  waters and jurisdiction of the Philippines. These territorial boundaries were further modi-  fied by a subsequent treaty between the United Kingdom and the United States. Later on  these jurisdictional limits wore confirmed by an Act of the Congress of the United States  of America. This Act of 1934 recognized the independence of the Philippines after a tran-  sitional period. The Philippines has accordingly, since the beginning of this century, laid  claim to territorial waters extending beyond the three-mile or twelve-mile limits, against  claims by other powers, on the basis of historical and legal rights granted by treaty.
32,2 The Philippine delegation would also like to draw attention to the peculiar nature of  archipelagoes such as the Philippines and Indonesia. Archipelagoes may be considered  sui generis in international law, and therefore it is understandable that they claim inherent  jurisdiction over the entirety of their territorial waters and contiguous zones, which are  distinct from the situation of States constituting mainly single land masses, or which are  not completely surrounded by the sea. Indeed, the General Assembly of the United Nations  recognized the need for further studies by the International Law Commission of historic  claims to territorial waters which were thereby brought outside the operation of the con-  ventions adopted by the Geneva Conferences on the Law of the Sea,
32,3 The Philippine delegation would also like to invite attention to the recognized right of  coastal States to exploit their continental shelf, which principle is applicable also in the  case of archipelagoes with respect to their continental shelf or its analogue. We therefore  fully support the amendments submitted by Argentina (DR/PLEN/20) and the multi-sponsored  amendment (DR/PLEN/21), as clearer and more precise reservations of the claim of the  Philippines, among others, to its inherent sovereignty over ite historic territorial waters  embraced by its outlying islands as well as to its right to exploit its continental shelf and  its analogue, without regard to the fact that they extend beyond the three-mile or twelve-  mile limits claimed by countries located in other continents and not even neighbours of the  Philippines.
32.4 Mr. President, since some distinguished representatives huve stated that the sub-  stance of the proposed amendments to the statutes, namely DR/PLEN/20 and21, is already  embodied in draft resolution 16 C/1:4, I would invite them most cordially to give an ear-  nest of their sincerity by agreeing to the more comprehensive formulation of the proposed  amendments to which they have already paid lip-service.
32.5 Having said this we would like to place on record the adherence of the Philippine dele-  gation, subject of course to the adoption of amendments which embody the reservations  which we have just made, to the draft resolution in 16 C/104 relating to the Statutes of the  International Oceanographic Commission, in so far as they are expressly designed to pro-  mote international co-operation in the scientific investigation of the nature and resources  of the oceans outside the territorial or jurisdictional waters claimed by adjoining coastal  States, Thank you, Mr. President.
(33.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr, Inglés.
(33.2) 1 call on Mr. Sobakin, delegate of the Soviet Union.
34.1 B.K. COBAKHH (Cows Conerckux CounanucThueckux Pecny6auk):  I'-u Mpeacesarens. Hauunas CBOC BHCTYIN/IOHHe, 4 fNipexne BCero XOTE/ GB CKA3ATh,
4TO COBÉTCKAA Ae/erallHs H COBETCKHE OKeAHOrpa®H HCXOAAT H3 Toro, uro pabora Mexay-  HapoAHON oxeaHorpaQHuecKolt KOMHCCHH BECbMA BAaXHa K YTO OHA HH B KO@M ciyuae He AOJX-  HA 3aTpYAHATHCA MNPHAAHHOM 5Tofl KOMHCCHH COB@PHEHHO HecBoficTBeHubIX eit DyHKUXHÉÀ opra-  Ha, KOTOPpsH YCTaHaB/IHBA@T KAKH6-TO HOBH® HOPMbI M6 XAYHAPponHOro npasa. OTo - HayuHas  KomuccHa, KOTOpas AONXHA SAHHMATLCA HAYYHEIMH MPOÉIEMAMH, H Mil HOJXHEI CHEAATb BCE,  YTO6; paGora sToÏ Komuccun bla CHOKOHHOÏ H MNPOT@KAa/lA OTHMAB He B TOÏ ob6craHoBKe, B  KoTopoi npoTexaeT ceituac nieHapHoe sacegauke Hameñ l'exeparbHoï KoHpepeHUUH.
34.2 T-u Npeacenatens. Beic/ymap BHHMAT@/bHO MHOTHE SANEHOHHH, KOTOPHIO CETONHA C  sTOH TpHOYHE Ori CACHAHEL, A HOBONbHO NPHXOXY K BHIBOAY, TO MHOTHE U3 BbICTYNANMHX  H306paxanT 16/10 He COBCSM MpABHABHO. BO MHOTHX BbICTYIVICHHAX CKBO3HT TEHACHUHA MpPOTHT  BONOCTABHTE ABA TekCTA. C OAHOH CTODOHM, 7 HONpPABKy, BHaya/ne pHéceHHyD Bpasnsneñ, a  Tenepp - yxe 31 rocyAapcTBOM, KOTOPAA IIP@NOAHOCHTCH Kak saMHIMaNMdax HHTePeCH H Npasa  NpHÔpexHsIX FOCYNapcTB; C APYTOR CTOpoHsI, = TOKCT, paspaG0TaHHbH IOPHAHYECKHM KOMH-  TeTOM, KOTOpHt, AK06bI, 3THX Npap He samumaeT.
34.3 TI'-na neneraTH, r-H IlpeacexaTess. BepHeMCA K NepBOHCTOYHHKY TOTO, WTO ME obeyx-  AaeM. EC/H B3r1AHYTb HA TOKCT, MpearnoxeHHsR J) pHAHYECKHM KOMHT@TOM, TO B HEM ACHO  ckasaHo, 4“To OKeaHorpadHuecKkas KOMHCCHA HONXHA CORGÂCTBOBATh pACIHPeHHID CBOÉOANbL  HAyYHOFO HCC/OHOBAHHA, MNpHHHMAA BO BHHMAHHE BCE COONTBETCTBYDIH® HHTEpeChl H MpPaBa,  BKAOYAA TO, KOTOPHQ BEHTEKANT H3 DPHCAHKUHH MPHOPEXHEX TOCYNAPCTB. TaxHM 06pasoM,
37  HEO6XORKMOCTS YBa XEHHA PPHCAHKLHK MPHÔPEXHEX FOCYAAPCTB 3adUKCHPOBARA B TEKCTE,  npeanoxeHsoM IOpHAHUECKHM KOMHTETOM. ÉNHHCTBEHHO, UTO He :/sIHCAHO B STOM T@KCTÉ,  STO TO, TO BLIXOAHT 32a PAMKH KOMMETEHUHH XakK IOHECKO, Tak H MeXAyHa poxHoñ okeaHo-  rpaquyeckoit KOMHCCHH: B TOM TEKCT® He COAXEPXHTCA ONPEe/e/IOHHA XapaKTepa STOR mpue-  AHKUHH H [IpejieIoB PacnpoCTPAHORHUA STOR DpHCAHKHHH, NOTOMY YTO TAKHMH BOMPOCAMH, T.e.  ONpeserneHxeM xapakTepa DpHCAHKLHH, ONPeAeeHHeM Npeje/oB pacMNpocTpaHeHHAa TOR Dpue-  AUKUHH, saHWMabrex D'enoparbHas Accambnes OpraxHaæauxH O6xe4uHeHHsx Hauuht x Komuc-  CHA NO MeXAyHapoAHOMY Npasy Oprannsauun O6%e;i5HeHHsIXx Haun, KoTopaa pa6oTaeT Han
3THM B HacTofmee BpeMsA. Ho NOBTOPAD, TEKCT, NpeAnoxeHHb JO pHANUECKHM KOMHTETOM,  HCXOAHT H3 TOTO, YTO DpHCAUKLHA NPHOPEXHHX rocyAapcTs MPH NPOBEAGHHH HAaY4YHBIX HCCNE-  NOBaHHÂÀ ROMXHa ypaxaTbcs. H NOSTOMy, HO MOR B3I/IHA, He AONXHO GH TH MPOTHBONOCTAB-  JIOHHA HJeH, KOTOPAN BAOXHOB/IRET MONpaBKy 31 rocyaapcTea, Toil HAee, KOTOpPas BAOXHOB-  JT TEKCT, npeanoxeHHsf KomureToM. PasHHa MexAy HHMH B dopMme.
34.4 5 xouy ceñuac nokasaThb NOYEMy, Ha Moi B3T/AA, C YHCTO DPHAHYECKOÏ, MOXET 6b1TB  C YMCTO TEXHHUECKOÏ TOYKH 3peHHs, HENPHEMAOMa MOMNpaBKka, MpexcTaB/reHHan B AOKyMeHTe
16 C/DR/PLEN, 21. Jeno B TOM, 4TO ynorpe6eHHo®e B sToÂ NonpaBKe BHpaxeHHe "30HbI,  HAXOAAUHECA [MOA HX DPHCAHKUHEÜ", T.e. NOR DPHCAHKLHEÏ NpHOpPeXHHX FOCYAAPCTB, MOXET  BHA3BATh MHOTOYHCNCHHBE HEAOPAIYMEHHH, OHO MOXET BH 3PaTh MHOFOYHC/CHHHÉ TOAKOBA-  HHS, KOTOPHE YpesBHYAÂHO 3aTpYAHAT pabory MexayHaposHon okeaHorpa®HuecKolH xoMuc=  chu. B MeXAyHapoAHOM NpaBe CyMeCTBYeT He OAHA 30Ha, MEeXAYHapPOAHHM MpaBOM NpPHIHAHO  OPpoMHOE KOJIHYECTBO CAMEIX pa3HOO6pas3HEX MOPCKHX 30H: TaMOXEHHEIX, PbIGONOBHEX, ca-  HHTAPHEIX, PANHOB@MATE/NLHHX H BCAKHX APYTHX. IIPH 3TOM TOJNbKO HA OAHY H3 STHX 30H  pachpocTpaHaerc& CyBepeHHTeT rOCyAapcTBa - STO T6PPHTOPHANBHEIE BOAR. OcTanbHbe 30HH  CO3HANTCH B CTPOrO ONpeAe1eHHEIX UONAX: TAMOXOHHAA 30Ha - AH ‘AMOXOHHOTO KOHTPO/A,  caxxrapHas 30HAa - ANA CAHKTApHOTO KOHTPO/A, H NPHÔPEXHbE FOCYAAPCTBA B STHX 30HAX He  pacnonaranT NOAHOTOÏ IOpHCAHKUHH. OTO - OÔMENpHIHAHHE MPHHLKUI MOPCKOTO M© XAYHApoa-  Horo npasa. OH sanncaH B KOHBEHUHHX, OH CyMecTByeT Tak Xe, Kak H OOBLYHBI NPHHUHIM ME X-  AyHapo,Horo npasa. H ceronHsa, r-H IlpencexaTesb, B BHICTYMACHHH MPOACTABHTE/A BpasHaHH,  Kora oi NpexCcTaBNAN CBOD MONPABKY, FOBOPHAOCh O TOM, YTO C TOYKH 3PpeHHA ACJNETaAuUXH Bpa-  sHAHH 910 BH pAaXeHHe, T.e. "30HH, MOANajapImHUe MNOA HPHCAHKUHDO MNPHÔPE XHbIX rocyxapcTs",  O3Ha4yaeT HCK/DYHT@NBHYD 10PHCAHKLHIO NpxÔpexHsX rOCYAAPCTB, HE NONycKas eme HHKAKOÏ  HHOË IOpHCAUKLHH, à TOJNBKO 0PHCAHKUMIO NPHÔPE@XHEX TOCYAAPCTB.
34.5 Taxuv o6pasoM, oTa Monpanka PaKTHYOCKH, ECJH ona 6ygeT NpHHATAa, NPHBEAET K TO”  My, “TO Ha 30HbI, B KOTOPHIX WPHCAUKLHA TOCYAAPCTB HE ARJIAEGTCA BceobreMmmomeit, GyAeT  pacnpocTpaHeHa HCKMIOYHT@/BHAH IOPpHCAHKLINA APUGpe XHLIX FOCYFAPCTB. # cnpaussan, r-ia  nenerath, Bilpane AH Mil, - JOHECKO n I'eHepanbsHas KoHGepeHuHA IOHECKO - pemaTb STOT  ponpoc. Ha MOA BST/IH/, OH ABHO BbIXOZAHT 3a paMKH KOMMETEHLHH Hameñ OpraHHsaiHH, a TeM  Gonee sa paMkH KoMMeTeHUHH MexayHapogHoñ okeaHorpa®HWecKoH KOMHCCHH.
34.6 DaTem eLe OAHO sameuanxe, kacawmeeca JOKyMeHra 16 C/DR, PLEN.21, B BbICTyNAe-  HHAX OYEHb MHO 0 TOBODH/IOCH O TOM, UTO HYXHO MpHHATb STY NONPaBKy. Ho, mo-MoeMy, HH-  TO H3 samHTHHKOB 93TOH NONpPaBKH He CKA3A/1, Y6M Xe IUIOX TeKCT JO pHAHYeCKOro KOMHTETA.  Bo BCAKOM CAYYAE, 4 apryMeHTOE B 9TOM OTHOMEHHH He chsmaj. MOXOT 61th, obCcyxpeHue  nomno TAKHM, f 6x CKA3aïl, CTPAHHHIM 06pa3oM, UTO MONpaBKa NOAAEPXHBAETCA NPOCTO Mo”  TOMY, UYTO OHA He COOTBETCTBYET TEKCTY lO pHAHYECKOTO KOMHTEeTa. To ecTh, HAET yxe He  cnokoïtHoe HayyHoe oûcyxAeHH&, à CTPACTH HACTOJBKO pasropesHcb, YTO Ha COXEPXAHHÉ  BHHMAHHA obpamaeTrcsa Mao.
34.7 C yyeTOM Bcero aToro, r-H IIpexcexaTesb, 4 XoYy cka3aTs, 4TO Halla HerérauHAa 6y-  HET TONOCOBATE NPOTHB NONPABKH, MPEANOXEHHOË 31 rOCYAAPCTBOM, HCXOAA H3 TOTO, HTC  STa MONpapKa BHISHIBAËT MHOFOYHCHOHHHE HEAOPA3YMEHHA, pAS/HYHBIE TO/NKOBAHHA H MIE  OC/HOXHHT, à OTHDAb He o6neruut pabory Mexnpanure/lbCTBEHHOÏ okeaHorpad®uuecKoï KO-  MHCCHH.
34.8 B sToñ nonpaske 16 C/DR/PLEN. 21 conepxuTca eme OAHH MYHKT: HCKAIOYHTb H3  YcTara MexnpaBHT6/bCTBEHHOÂ OKeaHorpaqHy“ecKoH KOMHCCHH MYHKT (j) craTeH 2. Hu B
37  ORHOM H3 BHICTYIVITGHHÉ 06 STOM NyHKTe ROOÔME He rOBOPUIOCH. Jle/0 B TOM, UTO B AOKYMEH-  Te, MNPeACTABIOHHOM IOpHAHYECKHM KOMHTETOM, TipeanoxeHa HOCKOALKO H3M6HEHHAH GopMy-  ANpoBKa 3TOTO CAMOro NyHKTa /1' cTATBH 2. H 4 AyMamw, YTO He OTKPOD CEKpeTa, - MOTOMy  UTO SACOZAHHA Gv MyGAHUHBIM: I - 3Ta H3MeHeHHas GopMmynaHpoBka Osijia MNpenroxeHa Ha sa-  cenaHun Kphanueckoro KoMHTeTa nHabawaatenem OT BpasHnnk. #1, OTKPOBEHHO TOBOPH, He  MOTY NOHATE, MNOYEMY Teneph Ta Xe caMas CTpaHa NPeAfaraeT STOT NyYHKT CTATBK 2 H3BATH,  TOM 6ojiee, 4YTO B NPeACTABJ/IEHHH AOKyMeHTa 31 cTpaHu aesnerat BpasHJMH HH CHOBA He CKa-
3aJ O BTOPOM MYHKTE [IPpOATOXEHHOÏ HM MONPABKH,
34.9 Teneps, r-u IlpeacexaTesb, OTHOCHTEABHO MONPABKH ApreHTHHH. Sl npomy r-Ha Moc/a  JlacTpa, AeslerauHio ApreHTHHH H3BHHHTb M@H4, HO MHE KaX@TCH, UTO BH NPHMOHHIH 3anpe-  HOHHHIÉ MPHEM, SAABHB, YTO peYb HAGT O BLIAGPXKE H3 AOKYMOHTA, 3a KOTOPHI NPOroaoce.,’  CopeTckHä COD3,4 TeM CAMBIM Aapas MOHATb, YTO Aenerauus CoBeTckoro Copsa He MOXE T  BO3PpAXATL MPOTHB AOKYM@HTA, KOTOPsIÉ NpeacTaB/eH COBETCKHM COD3O0M. Tem He MeHes,  r-u Npeacenarens, Mu GyaeM BO3paxaTb MpoTHB 3TOro aGsaua, KOTOpHHA AEÂCTEHTONBHO  GEIT NPeA/IOXeH COBMECTHO C APYTHMMH TOCYAAPCTBAMH H Aelerauneñ Corerckoro Cowsa,  Ha coBepmeHHo apyroï koudepeHuuH, B COBOPMEHHO / DYTHX YCJ/IOBHAX, AJIA COBEPMEHHO HHEX  Uereñ. ECAH CTATLA BLIPHIBAGTCH H3 KOHTE@KCTA H NOM@MAOTCH B COBEPIMOHHO HHOÏ KOHTEKCT,  OHA Me@HAGT CMbICA. IlpoekT AoroBopa O0 MUPHOM HCINO/Æb3OBAHHH Ha MOpeñ H oKeaHOB, OTKYAA  B3HTA 3Ta CTATLA, TIPEAYCMATPHBA@T CO3AAHHE HOBHX 30H, HOBHX MOPCKHX 30H, KOTOPHX HO”  Ka elle HO CYMECTBOBA/10, H B STOM KOHT@KCTe 3Ta CTATbH HAXOAHT CBOË M@CTO. HO ECJH BHe-  COHHEM 9TOÂ HONpaBKH AGJ6TaUKH ApreHTHHH XOYET CKA3ATh, YTO B YCTaBe MexNpasHTelb-  CTBEHHOÂ oKeaHorpaduueckoilt KOMHCCHH TOXe MpeAyYCMATPHBA@TCH CO3AAHHO KAKHX-TO HOBEX  MOPCKHX 30H, 5 ONATb BHABMIral TOT X6 CAMB APTyMEHT ~ 3TO He BXOAHT B KOMIMGTEHLHD  IOHECKO, sT0 He BXOAMT B KOMMeTeHUN® Me XxnpapHTe/IbcTBEHHONR oKeaHorpaduueckoil Ko-  MHCCHH, 3TO BXOAUT B KOMMETEHUWI COROPIIEHHO APyrHuX OpraHoB Oprannsauxnu O6reauHen-  Hex Hauxñ.
34.10 T-n Ipeacezatens, ecu nonpaBkd PLEN, 21H PLEN. 20 6yayT NpHHATEl, TO, NO  TBepaoMy y6exaenni Halleñ A@esrrerauuH, 9TO ABUTCA BMEWATE/ILCTBOM B A@/JA APYTHX opra-  HH3alHH CHCTEMH OpraHk sauHH O6%e4HHeHHbX Haunt. Mu Tem CAMBM 3aTparHBaeM npasa  H MOJIHOMOYHA APYTHX M@):YHAPOAHBIX OPraHH3AUHÀ. A Ha STOT CUET, T.e, C/I paccMaTpH-  paeTcsa Ha Hameñ D'enepr,IbHOÂ KOHJE peHUHH BOMpOC, KOTOPHIA OTHOCHTCA K KOMIMETEHLHH  Apyrux opraxHusaluä, cymecTsyeT OYeHb ACHOC NONOXeHKe Ilpanna npoueayps Hamel I'ene-  pañbHoñ Kondepenuun, À a npomy Bac, r-H MpencexaTesrb, Bac, rOCMOZNa A@/lerath, 06pa-  THTb BHHMäaHHe Ha CTs, "bi 14(a) IIpanHA npoyeAypsI l'eHeparbHOË KOHGEpeHLHH, B KOTOPOH  TOBOPHTCH, YTO, €CJH MNPEANOXEHKE, BHECEHHOe B Xoje 3acejaHus H Tpebywmee or DHECKO  Pa3BHTHA HOBOÏ JIeAT }/IBHOCTH, CBA3AHO C BONpoCaMH, HEMNOCPBACTBEHHO HHTepeCyIIHMH  nubo Opranusauxo O6reanHenHn x Haut, M00 OAHO HJH HECKONBKO CNELHA/HIHPOBAHHEX  yupexpeHuit, nomnmo IOHECKO, l'enepanbHbi aupextop "ofpamaet BHHMaHKe Ha nocies-  CTBHA NPHHATHA yKasaHHOro npeanoxenus". H nanee B Toit xe craThe rosopurca: "Ilpexae  YeM BHIHECTH MOCTAHOB/NCHHE MIO NPeA/IOXEHHAM, O KOTOPHX HAET py4b B ABYX NpeAwecTBy-  mux NyHKTax, I'eHepanbHas KOHdepeHUH YAOCTOBEPAETCA B TOM, UTO 3aHHTEepeCORaHHbIe  OpraHHS3AUHH GBH AONXHBM 06PA30M NPOKOHCY/IBTHPOBAHE". Ha MOH B3TAAA, NPHHATHE 3THX  NONpABOK, BO-MEPRHIX, BAeueT 3a COÉOË HOBHE BUAM AEATENLHOCTH, NOTOMY 4To MOK H  IOHECKO NpH3HBAOTCA ONPEAEIATh H YCTAHAB/IHBATb KAKHE-TO HOBble MOPCKHE 30HbI, KaKH@-  TO HOBHI@ HOPMH MeXAYHapPOAHOTO MpaBa, à 9TO 3aTparHBaeT A6ATEe/NBHOCTh APYFHX OPpraHH-
3AUHH CHCTEMb O6TeaHHEHHEX Haun H C HKHMH HaAO MPOKOHCYBTHPOBATECA, FNpexie vem  NpHHHMATb peueHke. Sl He BHOMY HUKaKoro GopMankLHOTO NpeasoXeHus Ha ceil CUET, HO A  npomy pac NOPA3MHCHHTI Haj 9THM GaKTOM. Cnacubo, r-H IlpeaceaaTe/sb.
(34,1) Mr. SOBAKIN (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr. President, I would like to begin by saying that the Soviet delegation and Soviet oceano-  graphers proceed from the view that the work of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commis-  sion is extremely important and should in no circumstances be complicated by its being assigned  functions not at all proper to it, those of a body laying down new norms of international law. This  is a scientific commission which ought to concern itself with scientific problems, and we should  do our utmost to see that the Commission is allowed to work in peace and certainly not in the  sort of conditions in which the plenary meeting of our General Conference is at present working,
(34.2) Mr, President, having listened attentively to the many statements made here today, 1  cannot help thinking that many of the speakers have a somewhat mistaken conception of the mat-  ter. Many of the remarks show a tendency to draw a contrast between the two texts: one, the  draft amendment originally submitted by Brazil and now sponsored by 31 States, which is repre-  sented as protecting the interests and rights of coastal States and the other, the text prepared  by the Legal Committee, which supposedly does not protect these rights.
(34.3) Fellow delegates, Mr. President, let us go back to the source of what we are discussing,  The text proposed by the Legal Committee clearly states that the Oceanographic Commission  should promote freedom of scientific investigation, taking into account all relevant interests and  rights, including those deriving from the jurisdiction of coastal States, Thus the need to respect  the jurisdiction of coastal States is stipulated in the text proposed by the Legal Committee, The  only thing not set down in this text fs something which lies outside the competence of Unesco and  of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission alike: the text contains no definition of the  nature and limits of this jurisdiction, because such questions - the definition of the nature and  limits of this jurisdiétion - are dealt with by the United Nations General Assembly and the United  Nations International Law Commission, which is at present working on the question, But, I re-  peat, the text proposed by the Legal Committee proceeds from the view that the jurisdiction of  coastal States should be respected when scientific research is being carried out. Therefore, in  my view, the idea inspiring the draft amendment submitted by the 31 States should not be held  up in contrast with the idea behind the text proposed by the Legal Committee, The difference  between them is one of form,
(34.4) I now want to show why, in my view, from the purely legal, perhaps purely technical  standpoint, the amendment submitted in document 16 C/DR/PLEN/21 is unacceptable, The point  is that the expression used in this amendment "the zones under their jurisdiction", that is to say  under the jurisdiction of coastal States, may cause numerous misunderstandings and may be open  to numerous interpretations, which will greatly complicate the work of the Intergovernmental  Oceanographic Commission, In international law there is not just one zone; international law  recognizes a large number of the most varied maritime zones for customs, fisheries, health  regulations, radio broadcasting and all sorts of other purposes. The sovereignty of the State  extends to only one of these zones, that of territorial waters. The other zones are for strictly  defined purposes, The customs zone is for customs control, and likewise there is a zone for  the enforcement of health regulations; and coastal States do not exerciso full jurisdiction inthese  zones, This is a generally accepted principle of international maritime law, It is stipulated in  conventions and exists like any ordinary principle of international law, Only today, Mr. Presi-  dent, the representative of Brazil was saying, when presenting his draft amendment, that in the  view of the Brazilian delegation, the expreasion "zones under the jurisdiction of coastal States",  signified the exclusive jurisdiction of the coastal States and allowed of no other jurisdiction than  that of the coastal States.
(34,5) Thug, in fact, the adoption of this amendment would mean that the exclusive jurisdiction  of coastal States would be extended to those zones in which their jurisdiction is not all-embracing.  Now I ask you, fellow delegates, are we - that is, Unesco and the General Conference of Unesco -  entitled to decide this question? In my view, it clearly lies outside the competence of our Or-  ganization, and all the more clearly outside the competence of the Intergovernmental Oceano-  graphic Commission,
(34,6) Ihave a further remark to make about document 16 C/DR/PLEN/21. Much has been  said in previous speeches about the need to adopt this amendment, but, in my opinion, none of  the defenders of the amendment has said what is wrong with the Legal Committee's text - at  least, I have not heard this case argued. Perhaps the discussion took, in my opinion, such a  strange course that the amendment is being supported simply because it is different from the  Legal Committee's text. What I mean is that instead of our having a calm, scientific discussion,  passions have got so heated that little attention is given to the content.
(34.7) In view of all this, Mr, President, I wish to say that our delegation will vote against the  amendment submitted by 31 Statet on the grounds that it gives rise to numerous misunderstandings  and is open to various interpretations, and, far from facilitating, only complicates the work of  the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission.
(34.8) Indraftamendment 16 C/DR/PLEN/21 there is another proposal, and that is to omit from the  Statutes of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission paragraph (j) of Article 2. No  speaker has yet made any mention of this item. The point is that in the document submitted by  the Legal Committee, a number of changes are proposed in the wording of this same paragraph (j)  of Article 2. I do not think I shall be giving away a secret - as the meetings were public - in
37  saying that this modified wording was proposed at the meeting of the Legal Committee by the ob-  server for Brazil, Quite frankly, I fail to understand why that same country is now proposing  that this paragraph of Article 2 be omitted, especially as in presenting the 31-country document,  the delegate of Brazil did not say a word about the second item in his draft amendment.
(34.9) Now, Mr. President, as regards the draft amendment submitted by Argentina, 1 ask Am-  bassador Lastra and the delegation of Argentina to excuse me if I say that you were not playing  fair when you said the passage was taken from a document for which the Soviet Union had voted,  thus implying that the delegation of the Soviet Union could not object to a document submitted by  the Soviet Union. Nevertheless, Mr. President, we shall object to this paragraph, which was  indeed submitted by the delegation of the Soviet Union jointly with other States, but at a quite  different conference, in quite different conditions and for quite different purposes, If the article  ie removed from its context and placed in quite another context, it changes its meaning, The draft  treaty on the peaceful uses of the sea bed and ocean floor, from which this Article is taken, pro-  vides for the creation of new zones, new maritime zones, not as yet in existence, and in that  context the Article is appropriate. But if in introducing this amendment the delegation of Argen-  tina is trying to say that the Statutes of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission also  provide for the establishment of some new maritime zones, I repeat my argument that this does  not lie within the competence of Unesco or withinthe competence of the Intergovernmental Oceano-  graphic Commission; it comes within the competence of quite differentbodies of the United Nations,
(34.10) Mr. President, if the draft amendments contained in documenta 16 C/DR/PLEN/20 and
21 are adopted, it is the firm conviction of my delegation that this will constitute interference in  the affairs of other organizations in the United Nations system, We arc thereby encroaching on  the rights and authority of other international organizations. In such cases, that is to say, when  a question is considered at our General Conference which comes within the competence of other  organ‘zations, there is a very clear stipulation in the Rules of Procedure of our General Con-  ference, Iagk you, Mr, President, and you, fellow delegates, to turn yourattentionto Rule 14 A  of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, in which it is stated that where a proposal  put forward in the course of a meeting for new activities to be undertaken by Unesco relates to  matters which are of direct concern to the United Nations or one or more Specialized Agencies  other than Unesco, the Director-General shall "draw the attention of the meeting to these impli-  cations of the proposal’, that "before deciding on proposals referred to in the two preceding  paragraphs the General Conference shall satisfy itself that adequate consultations have taken  place with the organizations concerned". In my view, the adoption of these amendments entails  in the first place new activities because IOC and Uneaco are being called on to determine and  establish some new maritime zones and new norms of international law, and this encroaches on  the activity of other organizations of the United Nations system, which need to be consulted be-  fore a decision is taken. 1am not introducing any formal proposal in this respect but I would  ask you, Mr, President, and you, fellow delegates, to think the matter over. Thank you,  Mr. President.
(35.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Sobakin.
(35.2) 1 call on Ambassador De Sola, head of the delegation of Venezuela.
(36.1) Mr. DE SOLA (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President, Venezuela has both Caribbean and Atlantic coastlines. In saying this, I wish  to make it clear that Venezuela's support of draft resolution 16 C/DR/PLEN/21 in no way sig-  nifies a predetermined position regarding the extent of territorial waters or on the righta of  coastal countries over their continental platforms, as indeed Venezuela, amongat other countries,  had already stipulated at the recent Lima conference. We simply consider that whatever be the  limits of a country's coastal waters, its rights cannot be disregarded by any of the States con-  cerned in the scientific investigation of the seas for the benefit of mankind,
(36.2) Having established the position of Venezuela, I must say that this discussion has perhaps  been a trifle emotional and distracted caused us to stray a little from the real object of the Inter-  governmental Oceanographic Commission, observing that the proposal submitted by Venezuela,  among other countries, in no way opposes full scientific investigation but is simply concerned  with respect for the rights vesting in coastal States over their territorial waters and it might  even be said, over their landward territories.
(36.3) In point of fact, the purpose of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission, ac-  cording to Article I, paragraph 2, of the very Statutes proposed by the Legal Commission, is to  promote scientific research towards a better knowledge of the nature and resources of the oceans  through the concerted action of the Commission's members, Thug in defining the object of the  Commission, care was taken to ensure that its activities could only be pursued by the concert of  all Member States with due respect for the rights of each State.
(36.4) It has been asked why the proposal of the Legal Committee is not acceptable to the Mem-  ber States which have submitted draft resolution16,C/DR/PLEN/21. Simply because paragraph (i)  of Article 2 in the draft of the Legal Committee reads as follows: "promote freedom of scien-  tific investigation of the oceans for the benefit of all mankind, taking into account all relevant in-  terests and rights, including those deriving from the jurisdiction of coastal States". Now prima  facie this svrgests a conflict of interests, as though there were some States which were and  others which were not interested in scientific research for the benefit of all mankind. It looks like a  suggestion that there is a clash between the coastal States with their rights and any other State  concerned with research for the benefit of mankind. We ourselves believe that when the Statutes  of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission set out to promote freedom of scientific re-  search in the oceans for the benefit of mankind, we cannot still speak of the existence of rele-  vant interests and rights, because the question I then ask myself is this: whose are these rele-  vant interests and rights? If they are those of all mankind, those of the States which are carry-  ing out this research are not at variance with the interests of the coastal States.
(36.5) The only rights therefore which might clash are the rights as concreto research opera-  tions and the sovereign rights of each State over its territorial waters and continental shelf. To  approve this amendment, to promote the freedom of research in the oceans for the benefit of  mankind while nevertheless taking account of the interests and rights of coastal States in respect  of research in zones under their jurisdiction neither constitutes in any respect an obstacle to  marine research, which according to Article I, paragraph 2, of the Commission's Statutes, is tobe  the concerted work of all the States, nor implies any presumptions regarding the nature or ex-  tent of the zones under the jurisdiction of each State.
(36,6) International law recognizes the existence of Statea' jurisdiction over their territorial  waters and continental shelf, so that however much it may be desired to delimit that jurisdiction  precisely, I do not think that the Statutes of an Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission  are necessarily where the rights of these States would be whittled back, And if neither this Con-  ference nor these Statutes could reduce those rights, why do we want to object to a eimple state-  ment that those rights of coastal States do exist.
(36,7) I therefore ask all speakers who have come out against the amendment proposed by a  large group of countries in document 16 C/DR/PLEN/21, to reconsider objectively and dispas-  sionately the true purpose of this amendment that they may see that it is conceived in the true  spirit of scientific research, but without circumscription of the rights of each State over its ter-  ritorial waters and its continental shelf.
(37.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Sparish):  Thank you, Ambassador De Sola.
(38.1) Mr. BOTTO (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President, fellow delegates, I shall be very brief. As a matter of fairness and recog-  nition of the work put in, 1 bear witness that the Legal Committee, of which I was a member  succeeded in finding equitable compromise solutions, but this does not imply that the vast ma-  jority of Latin American coastal States did not wish to clarify, preserve and safeguard their  jurisdictions and sovereign rights; by trying, as regards jurisdiction over coastal waters andre-  connaissance of the ocean bed, for solutions offering them greater guarantees for and greater  security in these righte,
(38.2) In these circumstances, though recognizing that the terms of reference and jurisdiction  of this Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission are confirad exclusively to technical ques-  tions, my delegation feels that for the record in the building of international law and for better  interpretation of present or future legal texts, it is desirable to safoguard the right of Latin  American coastal States as is done in the amendment proposed by Brazil, supplemented by the  Argentine amendment. Consequently the delegation of Uruguay will vote for the amendments  proposed by Brazil and Argentina. Thank you very much,
(39.1) The PRESIDEN' (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Botto.
(39.2) 1 think that the plenary has now heard all the different views on the question under con-  sideration, Two draft amendments bave been submitted, one ref: ving to paragraphs (i) and (3)  of Article 2 and the other to the final paragraph of Article 2. Accsordingly, if there is no request  for any other course, the procedure will be to take a vote on Articles 1 and 2 up to and including  paragraph (h), and then consider the amendment referring to paragraphs (1) and (j). When we  come to the final paragraph of Article 2, the amendment proposed in DR, 20 will be examined;  then Articles 3 to 15 will be voted on together. On the closure of the discussion, we shall pro-  ceed to vote in this way,
(39.3) If there is no objection, ! declare the discussion closed,
(39.4) 1call for a vote on Articles 1 and 2 up to paragraph (h) inclusive,
(39.5) Articles 1 and 2 up to paragraph (h) of Article 2 are approved,
(39.6) 1 call for a vote on the amendment contained in document 16 C/DR/PLEN/21 beginning  with the recasting of paragraph (i) of Article 2.  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
(39.7) The amendment of paragraph (1) of Article 2 is approved by 52 votes to 23, with 7 abstentions,
(39.8) We shall now vote on the suppression of paragraph (j) of Article 2,  (The vote was taken by show of hands)  {39.9) Paragraph (j) of Article 2 is suppressed by 50 votes to 24 with 10 abstentions,
(39.10) If there are no comments, I shall take it that the penultimate paragraph of Article 2 is  approved in the following form: 'In carrying out its functions, the Commission shall bear in  mind the special needs and interests of developing countries, including in particular the need to  further the capabilities of these countries in marine science and technology".
(39.11) The penultimate paragraph of Article 2 is approved,
(39.12) With regard to the final paragraph of Article 2, Ishall now put to the vote the amendment  contained in document 16 C/DR/PLEN/20.  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
(39.13) The amendment is rejected by 28 votes to 19, with 26 abstentions,
(39.14) We shall now vote on the final paragraph of Article 2, as contained in Annex I of docu-  ment 16 C/104.  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
(39.15) ‘The final paragraph of Article 2 is approved by 46 votes to 8, with 18 abstentions.
(39.16) I call for a vote on Articles 3 to 15. If there is no objection, I shall regard them as  approved,
(39.17) Articles 3 to 15 are approved,
(39.18) 1 put to the vote as a whole the draft resolution forming Annex I of document 16 C/104.  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
(39,19) The draft resolution is adopted by 72 votes to none, with 11 abstentions.
(39.20) The Conference now has before it the draft resolution forming Annex II of document 16 C/104.
(39.21) I call on Mr, Baugniet, Chairman of the Legal Committee.
40.1 M, BAUGNIET (Belgique), président du Comité juridique, -  Monsieur le Président, pour en terminer avec le huitième rapport du Comité juridique,  je dois informer la Conférence que le Comité s'est interrogé sur la nature exacte des tâches  qui lui sont confiées, et a estimé que le texte de l'article 32 du Règlement intérieur de la  Conférence générale ne correspondait plus entièrement à la situation actuelle, En effet, de  nombreuses questions figurant à l'ordre du jour de la Conférence générale lui sont envoyées  pour examen par la Conférence générale elle-même, sant: nécessairement passer par le  truchement d'une commission ou d'un autre organe de la Conférence générale. Par ailleurs,  comme il a été rappelé au paragraphe 32 du document 16 C/2, une pratique établie par la  Conférence générale à sa douzième session veut que le Comité juridique soumette des rap-  ports directement à la Conférence générale en séance plénière, Enfin, il est arrivé quecer-
37  tains points de l'ordre du jour soient envoyés soit au seul Comité juridique, soit en même  temps au Comité juridique et à un autre organe, soit successivement à une commission et  au Comité juridique, sans que soient toujours précisées ni l'étendue ni la nature de l'exa-  men que l'on attendait du Comité juridique, Parfois même, certaines questions qui parais-  saient avoir un caractère juridique ont été envoyées à un autre organe de la Conférence gé-  nérale sans lui être soumises,
40.2 Compte tenu de ces éléments, le Comité juridique estime souhaitable qu'il soit pro-  cédé à un reexamen de ses fonctions telles qu'elles sont définies dans le Règlement inté-  rieur de la Conférence générale, afin que, à la lumière de l'évolution récente et de la pra-  tique actuelle, on parvienne à une définition plus exacte de ces fonctions,
40.3 En conséquence, il suggère qu'il soit lui-même chargé de procéder à ce réexamen et  de formuler à l'intention de la Conférence générale des recommandations quant aux mesures  qu'il conviendrait éventuellement de prendre, Il suggère également que le Directeur général  soit invité à soumettre à la Conférence générale, à sa prochaine session, une étude sur la  question,
40,4 Les mesures qui seraient éventuellement prises lors de la dix-septième session ne  pouvant prendre pleinement effet à cette même session, il suggère en outre qu'en formu-  lant à l'intention de la Conférence générale ses recommandations concernant la répartition  des points de l'ordre du jour de la dix-septième session entre les différents organes de la  Conférence générale, notamment en ce qui concerne l'envoi de certaines questions au Co-  mité juridique, le Conseil exécutif s'efforce d'indiquer de manière aussi précise que pos-  sible la nature et l'étendue exacte des tâches dont le Comité serait chargé lors de l'examen  de chacune des questions qui lui seraient attribuées, Si la Conférence donne son assenti-  ment à ce souhait, le Comité juridique vous suggère, vous propose, d'adopter le projet de  résolution qui se trouve à l'annexe II du document 16 C/104, c'est-à-dire de son huitième  rapport,
(41.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. Baugniet.
(41.2) If there are no comments, I shall take it that the draft resolution contained in Annex II of  document 16 C/104 is adopted.
(41.3) The draft resolution contained in Annex Il is adopted.
(42) Mr. LASTRA (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):
1 wish briefly to explain the reason for our abstention. We are in agreement with the text of  the approved Statutes of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission except for the final
37  paragraph of Article 2 from which our delegation dissents, We wish to place on recordthe cause  of and reason for this abstention.  CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORT OF THE PROGRAMME COMMISSION (continued)/  EXAMEN DU RAPPORT DE LLA COMMISSION DU PROGRAMME (suite) EXAMEN DEL  INFORME DE LA COMISION DEL PROGRAMA (continuacién)/PACCMOTPEHHE HOKJA-  IA KOMHCCHH MO MPOFPAMME (npoxonxenHe} meld jd! ind oy pis ob bid! lata
(43.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  We now return to document 16 C/105, Part C.2, Annex - Recommendations, The Commis-  sion recommends by 15 votes to none, with 28 abstentions, that draft resolution 2. 343 be adopted.  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
(43.2) The resolution is adopted by 65 votes to none, with 3 abstentions.
(43.3) The General Conference takes note of the work plan for Section 2. 34(II).
(43.4) The Commission recommends by 39 votes to none, with 5 abstentions, that the proposed  appropriations for Section 2. 34(I1) be approved.  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
(43.5) The appropriations are approved by 57 votes to none, with 10 abstentions.
(43.6) The Commission recommends by 36 votes to none, with 5 ‘abstentions, that the proposed  Regular programme appropriations for the whole of Section 2. 34 be approved.  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
(43.7) The appropriations for Section 2. 34 are approved by 59 votes to none, with 8 abstentions,
(43.8) Staff and appropriations for the Department of Environmental Sciences and Natural Re-  sources Research.
(43.9) The General Conference takes note of paragraphs 660 and 661 in the Draft Programme  and Budget for 1971-1972, and of the proposed staff appropriations for the Department.
(43.10) The Commission recommends that the proposed Regular programme appropriations for  the staff of the Department be approved.
(43,11) The appropriations are approved.
(43,12) The Commission recommends that the proposed Regular programme appropriations for  the whole of Sub-Chapter 2.3 be approved.
(43.13) The appropriations are approved.
(43,14) Regional co-operation in Asia and field offices: I - Regional science co-operation in  Asia. The Commission recommends unanimously, less 3 abstentions, that draft resolution 2.4  be adopted.
(43.15) I call on the Director-General,
44, Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL, -  Je crois qu'il y a une erreur de traduction à signaler au paragraphe 4 (e) de la résolu-  tion 2,4. En anglais, on lit "during the following biennia", ce qui correspond au pluriel  neutre latin ; mais, en français, il y 4 "au cours du prochain exercice biennal", Or, je  crois me rappeler que le Directeur général adjoint avait indiqué qu'il s'agissait effective-  ment d'un piuriel, c'est-à-dire "des prochains exercices biennaux" et non pas seulement du  "prochain exercice", / ;  /
(15.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Director-General. In the Spanieh text the plural is used. I now call for a vote  on draft resclution 2,4, bearing in mind what the Director-General has just gaid,
(45.2) Draft resolution 2.4 is adopted.
(45.3) The Conference takes note of the work plan,
(45.4) The Commission recommends that the proposed Regular programme appropriations in  respect of regional science co-operation in Asia be approved.
(45.5) The appropriations are approved.
(45.6) 1J - Field offices. The Conference takes note of the personnel requirements for the field  science offices as specified in paragraph 814 of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1971-1972.
(45.7) The Commission recommends to 35 votes to none, with 5 abstentions, that the Conference  approve the appropriation of $1,061,900 for field science offices.
(45.8) The appropriation is approved,
(45.9) The Commission recommends by 35 votes to none, with 5 abstentions, that total appro-  priations of $1,174,400 for regional co-operation be approved.
(45.10) The appropriations are approved,
(45.11) The Conference takes note of the staff requirements for the Office of the Assistant  Director-General as shown in paragraph 818 of the Draft Programme and Budget for 1971-1972,
(45.12) Proposed Regular programme appropriation for the Office of the Assistant Director-  General, If there is no objection I shall take it as approved.
(45.13) The appropriation is approved.
(45.14) The Conference takes note of the résumés at the end of Chapter 2 (16 C/5).
(45.15) Proposed overall Regular programme appropriations for the Science Sector. If there  is no objection 1 shall take these as approved.
(45.16) The appropriations are approved unanimously.
(45.17) Gentlemen, I think I should stop taking undue advantage of your magnificent co-operation  in the voting of numerous resolutions of the Programme Commission, I wish to thank delegates  and the Chairman of the Legal Committee.
(45.18) I declare the meeting closed,  “The meeting rose at 6, 45 p.m.  La séance est levée À 18h 45,  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 18, 45.