Seventh plenary meeting
15 October 1970 at 10,15 a.m,  President: Mr. Dell'Oro MAINI (Argentina)  Septième séance plénière
15 oxTabps 1970 ©. B 10-u4..16 Muu. ‘  Mlpeaceadarens; rrn JEJB OPO MAHHH (AprexruHa)  wl Ll Lad]  Lio eadtyay. Jit ors] 4581 Je  (ose dl) J 55 54025/ Are Se  DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (euite)/ GENERAL POLICY DEBATE ‘(continued)/  DEBATE SOBRE, POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién)/ OBCYXAEHHE BONPOCOB OBIE  NONUTHAKH (npoRonxenue)/ ald] ald! GASLie wilt
1, 1) The, PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1, declare the meeting open, .  oho. : Poet
(1.2) he ‘Director -Gefieral has been delayed fi thé Administrative Commiagion, and He is bes  ing represeritéd on thé Gerieral Committeé by Dr. Buzzati-Traverso, Assistant Director «Général  for Science, whom i am happy to welcome amongst us.
(1.3) The first ndme bj the Itat of speakers 14 that be Bis Exce)lbñoy the Minister of Foreign Af-  fairs of Austria, who, | may point out, is the only Minister of Forëign Affairs to be present at  one of our meetings. a .
(1.4) I call upon the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Austria, Head of his country's delegation.
2.1 Mr KIRCHSCHLAGER (Austria): ’ 27 i. 8 ea NE EET ;  Mr. President,“before giving ‘a brief ‘olfitné of the ideas with which the Austrian dele-  gation has approached the work facing this General Conference, I should like to convey to  you my sincerest congratulations on your elettion as President, which does honour not only  to you but tothe C,snference itself. For my delegation, ‘your election bodes well for the suc  cessful work of this assembly. ’
2.2 The fact that I, ab’Austiian Foreign Minigtes,” arh leading our delegation to this Confer-  ence may seem somewhat unusual. The formal reason for this is anew Austrian internal law  which has transferred the responsibility for intér-State cultural activities from the Ministry  of Education to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’.
2.3 This transfer of responsibilities is not, however, merely a legislative act prompted by  questions of Mih{stérinl jurisdiction,’ The Féddan {s that the Fprdign Ministry is in general  the instrument which serves to orientate a country in a world context, to orientate it not only  in the political sphere, but also in.those of culture, technology and science and of human en-  vironment. The earth's population is increasing at a rate that until. only recently was totally  inconceivable, and at the same time, the new-found knowledge of science and technology is  providing this population with the equally inconceivable power, and means of influencing the  events of the world in which it lives. . || . Eo
2.4 An activist-positivist of the latter part of the nineteenth century once said: "Up until  now, the philosophers have interpreted the world. Now thé time has come to start changing  it". But now so much has been dcne to change the world that I think it is time to interpret  it once again. Interpretation is orientation and orientation is based on communication, the  ability to pass on understanding and experience - vertically as well as horizontally. Some  of the means of communication which are so necessary to us all are faced with the threat of  extinction, some have become inadequate. There are fields of experience which are not  passed on, which reach only minority groups. Understanding) becausé of insufficient ex-  perience! offén lacks ih depth or becomes distorted,’ and we ‘dre faced with the threat that  people may no longer understand one another or the world they live in. When mañ'cah no  longer come to terms with his fellows or with the world he inhabits, they seem hostile to  him and this confusion leads to hatred and violence. It is therefore not just a humanitarian  but also a political task to try to prevent any such dangerous atrophy ¢f thé orgenic means  of promoting the integral distribution of human knowledge and undérstanding. :
2.5 ‘The ‘Austrian delegation believes that the Draft Programme and Budgét submitted to  this General Conference shows that thé problems I havé méntioned have been recognised  and that in recognizing them, Unesco has justified itself and the tasks which it has set itself.
2.6 ‘Austria Wwelcomés all efforts to safeguard mankind's physical existence’ and will do èvery-  thing within its power to support such multidisciplinary projects. 2 So cu
2.7 Austria will also support any activities designed to combat the dangerous inequalities  ‘which givé risé to resentment; hatred and also to spiritual and physfcal hardship:' Convine-  ing evidence of the garefully considered, purposeful aims -ôf this world organiZation’is af-  forded by the special importance which has been attached to educational methods of meeting  the demands of development, especially “éducation permanente” or life-long education. This  method of education, tailored as it is to meet the demands of the day, might prove to be the  ultimate key, to the fundamental democratization of education, But let us nat forget that there  are millions upon millions who are not yet literate, who have not reached the first stage on  the roed towards this goal. :
2.8 The communication of understanding and experience cannot siford to be horizontal only;  it-must also be vertical. . Here, we inevitably come up against the problem of communication  between the generations and, more precisely, of communication between "apparent! contem-  poraries. I stress the word "apparent", for although it may seem the same; the world as  .experienced by a fifty-year-old is.a different world from that inhabited by a twenty-year -old.  The problem of the younger generation, as it has come. to be called, is in faot nothing less  than a question of communication. That there has, already been some thought cn the subject  is shown by the Draft Programme which lies before us. To what extent this can be effective  will-be shown by the work of this Conference. It will also-serve to show how rapidly today"  becomes "yesterday" and to what extent the youth of today thinks in terms of tomorrow, And  we too must. think in terms of the same tomorrow, otherwise wa run the risk, today, of al-  ready belonging to, yesterday. The necessary channelling. of the younger generation's vitality  and strength into the ideals and work of this Organization represents not only a new initiative,  but also a problem of organization.  A . the Inf ve : + oo © ’ À :
2,9 The direct incorporation of young people, people who are young not only in years,. but  also in outlook, ¢ould bring little that is new given only the. existing organizational machinery.  A young member of any national delegation is inevitably bound by instructions, and it is just  as hard to imagine any young international official who is-not equally committed to the direc -  tives of his generalsecretariat. I believe that the necessary communication with the younger  generation can best be achieved by establishing contact with active youth organizations, a  move which, given good will, could lead to the formation of a sort of consultative assembly  similar to the consultative assembly in Strasbourg.  fe ped !
2.10 Connected, but only loosely connected with this, opportunities for vacation experience  for young people in the Unesco Secretariat along with an increase in the number of young ex-  perts in national delegations, could also make a valuable contribution. But this important  incorporation of young people into the operations of Unesco is not all that is needed. ,
2.11 It ie an unfortunate fact that knowledge in the world at large about Unesco and the work  it does is still very limited. This must be changed.» It:is for this reason that Austria wel-  comes all the projects in this connexion contained in the present Draft Prograrame and Bud-  get, such as the training of specialist journalists in developing countries, But even this is  not enoügh. We still bad far ‘toG little In our press, hear and see too little on radio and  television, about the activities and success of Unesco. This cau only be because , even in  the developed counties, there are not enough journalists with the necessary interest, jour-  nalists who could present news attractivelÿ'énough for thë influential agencies to accept and’  distribute ‘it. It is unfortunately Hue that aii'¢rganization’ whose activities ahd successes  are known td ‘only a few specialists’ ‘simply’ doés not exist in the rhind ‘of the public'at large.  Unesco in particular just cannôt'affôrd'to be satisfied with recognition by an élite alofie.
2.12 With the means at her 'dispôgäl, ‘Austria’ié thereforé' séékihg at the moment to estab-  Met such a group' of jouvntlfé(b'and has sought thé aid of Unesco fn this endeavour. ‘We  ‘should like to driw attention ih particulat to the fact that more decisive bfforts in this direc:  tion should be nade within the frafework of the Of ganization itself. Ce
2.13 The General Conference in particular should concern itself with its opportunities to  contrfbuté té thé Saf guiding ‘ot peace. “I believe this répresents a duty fundéthental {othe  whole network of its planing and'conceéptual Work and'to the vest range’ of its interests. It  is entirely Justitiable and to'be ‘desired that the Coriterencé should assert moral authority.  “2.14 In thé political 'spheye, ‘oft ‘the ‘other hand," It Would seen’ édvibäblé for'the Conferénce  À restrict! Naelt to the Latte get by {ts spécial tasks. ‘Alithority can be expected only when  “ft 1 16nt By the Matter ‘at'Hädd!" It orie tries to carry it beyoiid the limité tiposed, it loses  its effect. My delégation’ Believes that United Nations responsibilities soulll be dealt with
5ÿ thé United Nations’ ind those ‘of Unéscb By Unesco. ” Thus we ‘shdll be /ble' to maintain  our practical ahd moral author{ty and allow if t6'sekve à worth-while purpose. '
2.15 Before. closing; I' should. like to pointoùty: Mr. President, that in the:fields of educa*  - tion, science and culture, inuch work is duplicated: ‘In view of the different regional,: sub-  . regional and also often, ideologically, widély.varied types of organizations! this .is‘under-  standable - but none the less.to be: regretted: The Austrian delegation would welcome it if  - in Unesco documents and -publications:in particular, thé results of research and inquiries by  other orgänizhtièns could be cited more frequently. In peaceful intellectual’ competition, we  cannot afford to draw new frontiers, even where ideologies differ: It-is ohly:by appreciating  one another's achievements: that we can'enjoy mutual respect'and trist. ‘I should therefore  like to-urge that Unesco in particuldr,ias a world-wide organization, should in future make  a greater ‘effort to‘ collect information from no matter where, and'to quote all interesting  sources of reference: Increased dccéss to all’ informatiofi} including that ‘of regional and  “ sub-regional organizations, would help. reniove barriers arid reservations and thus contri-  bute towards peace. So Celt po :
2,16 Finally, Mr President, I know that it is possible to use this platform to list the efforts  and especially the successes of:individual natiofis and thus to seek,” more :or'less deliberately,  certain effects. . My country could also dé this, especially inirelation-to Unesco. But I am  not going to take this opportunity. Such'points as are relevant will be brought up by the Aus-  trian delegation in the commissions concerned.
2.17 I express. to the Conference . -my sincerest’ wishes: thet it will prove successful andof  value for the future: Thank you, Mr. President.
6. 1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish): }  I thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Austria for his statement.
(3. 2) 1 call upon Mr. Luyimbazi-Zake, Minister of Education of Uganda, Head of his country's  delegation. ;
4.1 Mr. LUYIMBAZI-ZAKE (Republic of Uganda);  Mr. President and fellow delegates, on the occasion. of the sixteenth ‘session of the Gen  eral Conference of Unesco, which coincides. with the International Education Year, ‘1870, 1  am particularly pleased to extend to.you, Mr. ‘President, and all’ the eminent delegates, at.  this Conference, the most cordial greetings both in my own name and on behalf bf my dele-  gation and of the President and the, Government and. people of the Republic of Uganda., My  delegation ‘and Ihave ¢ome here with confidence that this General Conference will, like those  which have preceded it, be yet another prominent landmark on the road to the enrichment and  fulfilment of the great aims of Unesco in the vital and overlapping fields of education, science  and cvliure.
4, 2 It is a privilege, i to. assoclate, myself with the ‘eloquent and com 1imentary remarks which  have been made by, distinguished, speakers before me, on the work of Unesco. I can say with-  out any reservations. that: Unesco has, over the Jast iwenty-four. years and ‘particularly during  the past decade, proved itself to be an effective and ‘indispensable organ, to ‘which my country  and many other, Member: States of the Third World haye turned for inspiration and, assistance,  - without. reservation, ; ina desperate effort to break the, vicious circle of underdeyelppment, and  to enhance the destiny, of men inhis totality, | Remarkable achievements have been made through  international doropsration for developraent. For, these | I want to.take this opportunity” to re-  cord my. country's. profound gratitude | to the Director-General, the Secretariat and, the Exe;  cutive Board for the work they. have done oyer, the past two. years, and the strong structure  that has been built up for the future. Ît is a joy for me to pledge Uganda's continued support
7  to the co-operative endeavour of Unesco in its determined attack on the educational, scien-  tific and cultural tasks of human fulfilment and social justice.
4.3 This General Conference is being held at a critical time, after a decade during which  man has, through his ingenuity, determination and aspirations, achieved unprecedented and  astounding progress in education, science and technology.
4.4 Mr. President, I am gratified to say that Uganda has during the past decade admirably  conzolidated her political independence, won in 1962. We have emerged from the 1960s with  a new sense of direction, a new philosophy of life and a new blue -print for the advancement  and fulf{lment of man inUganda. All this is eminently set out in our "Common Man's Charter",  promulgated by His Excellency the President of the Republic of Uganda last year. I am proud  to inform this august body that the stage has been set for a safe take-off in the new decade,  go that the benefits 6f {independence and economic development may be ‘enjoyed by the great -  ‘est number of the people of the Republic of Uganda. This is to be achieved through a greater  share in and more effective control of the means of production by Ugañdans, a more equitable  distribution of our wealth arnongst the people, expanded and improved opportunities for edu-  cation at all levels, both formal and non-formal, and the intensification of efforts to make the  benefits of science and technology more accessible to the common man.
4,5 The past decade has been characterized by savere strains and siresses on education  systems throughout the world. In Uganda, the passionate desire for common men and women  to give their children a better chance in life has made the demand for education explosive in  its quality - a powerful political force which a democratic government could not resist. On  another front, and as a strategy for development in all sectors of life, government in our  country has manifestly given a high priority to the democratization and qualitative improve-  ment of education as an indispensable factor in giving our nation greater stature in every  respect.
4.6 I want to underscore our concern for the reorientation of the nation as a whole through  education. Too often "international experts" impact on our national traditions and demand  that we cunceive éducation as ‘strictly functional, as a mere preparation for an occupation  and a post on the manpower’ chart. Not infrequently, these ' ‘experts'' are insensitive tothe  need for such technical assistance as is required to demonstraté and regenerate our educa-  tional system, becausé in their view inputs and outputs must be rigorously related to fore-  casts of manpower requirements, Such experts, wherever they may come from, should be  prepared to listen and to bring their expertise into harmony withlocal views and aspirations;  they should learn that education is not regarded by us merely as a factor in economie change,  but also as a basic instrument for giving quality to our social and political revolution.
4.7 Education must produce citizens capable of playing their full part in the political, eco-  nomic and cultural life of the community to which they belong. In pursuit of this objective  Uganda is spending over thirty per’ cent of her national budget on education - more th~n thirty  per cent when other agencies’ involved in providing education and training are considered.  The consequences of the decision to invest in’ hüman resources at this high rate are clearly  demonstrated by the fact that ‘during elght years of independence, enrolments iti formal edu-  cation ‘have iricreased by over 55% in primary schools, more than 350% in secondary schools,  by 390% in university ard by nearly 200% in other higher education institutions overseas.  ‘These aré the practical results of the efforts made by the Government of the Republic of  _ Uganda to improve and expand education.
4.8 But quantitative expansion of the education system is not enough.’ It must be accom-  _panied by qualitative improvements. This is being achieved through curricula renovation  and renewal, through’ improved teacher ‘education and better educational materials and réth-  “ods, In this connexion I'want to pay special ‘tribute to Unesco. and Unicét for their joint help  since 1968 in’ launching a massive primary and science teachers’ rétraining progiré amme.  "This project is now making an impact on the quality and méthods of our teaching and oh'the  output of our primary schools, May I be permitted here to acknowledge gratefully the pivotal
7  rôle of a team of four ,Unesco experts in Uganda who have been a source of inspiration tous  in our efforts to improve the quality of primary education. | |
4.9 At the secondary school level the old curriculum of purely academic subjects is being  . abandoned in favour of comprehensive education. This reorientation entails the introduction  of practical subjects such as commerce, home economics and industrial arts as’ essential  components of secondary education in Uganda. With the assistance of the International De-  velopment Association, a sound beginning has been made in providing the required physical  facilities for a comprehensive type of education. y
4.10 In implementing a programme of comprehensive education, we come face to face with  the practical problem of the scarcity of scientific and technologigal teachers. Our planning  strategy therefore now lays strong emphasis on the expansion of intakes into the science-.  based subjects at ‘the university, to provide an increasing feedback into the gchooi system.  In this regard my delegation welcomes and endorses Unesco*'s, ;poliey, of expanding and inten-  sifying its collaborative and harmonizing efforts in the ddvancement of science education and  the training of technicians . In this connexion, I wish to thank Unesco for the, specialists now  working at the Uganda Technical College and for the patience displayed, while waiting for the  counterparts to come through our educ ational pipiline . .
4.11 The question of counterpart staff looms large in many bilateral and multilateral tech-  nical personnel programmes. Usually there is an insistence on the production of counter-  part local staff as a precondition for the giving of ‘aid fn the’ form’ of technical assistançe  personnel. While the objectives of such a policy are obvious and admirable, my delegation  would like to see increased flexibility and a new approach on the part of the donor organiza-  tions. Rather than require the presence of a counterpart, Unesco, or for that matter any  other organization, should expand its programme of sponsoring local personnel to attend  key courses in various institutions of learning at home or abroad, with a view to feeding the  trained students back into the system as teachers and demonstrators.
4.12 A ‘long-term, ‘policy should be formulated as part of Unesco! s regulaï programme for  the production of local specialists and teachers to teach, local” pupils. ‘The two-year contract  staff'from oyerseas leaves much to be desired in the way of continuity’ and effectiveness, It  is the « contention of my delegation that the funds spent on the two-year contract ‘staff éhould  be, increased and a substantial portion earmarked for sponsoring the training of ‘nationals  who can provide; the essential continuity and promote improvements within a local’ context.  We, also wish to emphasize that long-term benefits will be maximizéd by improving local  training facilities.
4.13 My delegation ‘appreciates Unesco's current efforts in the training and induction of lo-  _,cal personnel through a system of short-term fellowships for various activities. We are not,  . however, satisfied with’ this approach. We believe that Unesco could do more by expanding  more rigorously a systematic long-term training programme in consultation and çollabora-  tion with Member States. A policy, of concentration, _continuity and balance is of cardinal  importance, in the Organization's.’ Technical Ageistance; programme’ in the 1970s. : Short- term  training programmes, should be mere. emergency and auxiliary aids to the more systematic  long-term training schemes . My delegation is anxious to urge the Organizatjon 1e give geri-  ous conaideration to this proposal in ‘the next biennium, Only through sustained long-term  schemes gan training programmes ‘produce the desired self-reliance in the developing Mem-  ber States. More than ever before Unesco should stand’ ‘ready to assist in the identitication  of priority areas, to initiate, to evaluate and to promote educational ‘gelf-reliance in thé de-  veloping countries.
4 4” ‘Me. President, ‘let me at ‘this functure say a ‘word ‘about antrpationai regional, conter-  ‘ ences, of ‘which a  number are programmed, and budgeted for in the Draft Programme : an  Budgef tor 1971-1972 : My delegation would like to propose for the consideration of the Or-  anization ‘ a more meaningful choice of ‘conference venues, Greater weight should be given  to the ‘selection of developing Member States as hosts, particularly for those conferénces
7  which.seek to focus attention on developmental problems in education, both formdl and in-  formal; on adult education and literacy, ahd on problems ‘in the application of scienceiiand!  technology to development. The overriding consideration in the choice of a venué should be  the relevance and significance of the conference to the host country. Mr. President, there  is no intention on the part of my delegation to‘proposeé hard and fast’ linés on this matter,  We are, however, convinced that there is immense scope and benefit in holding moré inter-  national conferences in the fertile environment of ‘appropriately chosen (developing rations  in Africa, Asia and Latin America.  … 1 4 D . ur tr
4.16 Mr, President, permit me now to turn to a: consideration’ of some of: the salient fear  tures of Unesco's policies reflected in the Draft Programtie and Budget before, this Confer-  ence. I wantfirst of all, on behalf of my delegation, to thankthe Secretariat and the Director-  General for the pains they have taken in conceiving and producing a forward-looking and action-  oriented budget for the next biennium. The doéument is lucid and contains sorhe impressive  new ideas in the fields of education, natural and social sciences and culture. .
4.16 My delegation endorses Unesco's concentration ot education as a human-Pight;' as a  critical factor in the growth of nations and as an indispenéable instrument for interriational  understanding, co-operation and world peace. We note the overall allocation t6 éducatiôn‘  of about 22% of the budget for the next biennium. ‘ Unesco's twin objectives of improving  both the quality and the universality of education are ‘consonant with’ those pursued by the  Government of the Republic of Uganda. ‘ :
4, 17 In this era, when man hôlde in- his hinds the means for a total and { awit. ‘annihilation ‘  of all forms of life on our planét; we believe that he can only: turn to éducation 2% the ulti-  mate means of imbüthg man’ with those high ideals which Will lead hit to ehlightened and:  rational policies and judgements, we should turn to’ education to leédrn to live and let live.  In a world of tensions divisions and threatened eruptions Unesco cannot nérély - provide"  technical aid and knowledge as such, and leave thie: matter there. It must play a moi‘e hu:  manistic and more constructive r6le in affai¥d between nations. Afid there wold appear to  ‘be scope for this role through broad and cultuëal'édücational activities. Man Hos mastered  the art of dwelling in the wastelands, in hot deserts or frozen waters; ‘he can reich the méon  and can transplant hearts. Is it not self-defeating that having achieved so much, man’ ré-  mains so stubbornly savage? Is it not self-defeating that man should mould his environment  so effectively and yet fail so'signally- to change’ his inner ‘self?
4. 18 : ‘However, in this world, we'in the young and- small nation can'in the” final enalysis  only watch ‘and hope. Those belonging to’ powerful nations can act with effect Af they’ so’  choose: It is to those powerful nations that we pose the question.
4,19 My delegation has every contidence that with the continued initiatives, ‘stimulation and  collaborative efforts of Unesco and Member States, the major barriers: of ighor atice, mis-  trust and prejudice which inhibit’ m a's development and fulfilment can be effectively: des -  troyed in this decade . Co
4. 20 Fellow delegates, our attention has been captured by the proposed programmes aid”  projects designed to trarislate the concept of life-long education into practical terme;  life of an individual and of a nation revolves along certain long-term im eratives. Thome  take the form of life ‘long wants such as to eat, to drink, to ensure one’ ’sécuritÿ ‘tb Heve-  lop, to know and to lève, anid té presérvé 6hé's culture ahd ‘taëntity!" Education it 1t8 vari-  ous forms is an indispensable instrument for meeting these life- -long needs.
4.21 This philosophy of education is all-éfbiicinl dnd réquireë for its tultiiment'a'sétihd  strategy and plan of action. My delegation js pleased to find in the Draft Programme and  Budget feasible proposals and a sound work plan for turaing the congept of life-long educa-  tion into a reality. We support this programme and in this connexion, we have pleasure in  ‘informing the Organization that Uganda lays.graat.emphasis ion mèéaningfui ‘out +of+school  education. This is being done through the Ministry of Culture ‘and Corhimünity Development,
7  with the close collaboration of Unesco; through the Ministry of National Service; the National  Union of Youth Organization; the Centre for Continuing Education; the Law Development Cen-  tre of the University; and through many voluntary organizations. It-is our hope that in’ ‘the  years ahead, Unesco will continue to energize and add new dimensions to the activities al-  ready being cavried on in this field by Member States.
4. 22 As regards the right of access toeducation, my delegation fully a approves the proposed -  programme and budget for the elimination of all forms of discrimination in education. We  in Uganda have an open-door policy in our schools, and every citizen is free to enter re-  gardless of his sex, creed or colour. In pursuit of this policy, we place emphasis in our  educational planning on the development of multiracial and coeducational schools. We are  proud to be signatories to the Convention against Discrimination in Education. In this re-  gard, Mr. President, we have pleasure in submitting two nominees for election by this  General Conference to the Conciliation and Good Offices Commission, as proposed in do-  cument 16 C/64, ,(
4.23 In so far, as operational programmes are concerned, my delegation welcômes the pro-  posed co-operative plan between Unesco and the World Bank to provide technical assistance  to Member States for the preparation of requests for credit and the implementation of credit-  financed projects, This is a very valuable service and its availability should make a real  difference to the formulation, preparation and execution of development projects. While wel-  coming this form of assistance, my delegation must at the same time take the opportunity to  sound a word of caution to the Organization. The Technical Assistance programme should  be judiciously administered so as to encourage Member States to learn and master the tech-  niques so as to be able to do the tasks for themselves. Technical assistance should not, in  this connexion, turn Member States into passengers in a huge Jumbo Jet captained and steered  by Unesco. The Member States must in this co-operative venture be the principal speakers  and the decision-makers as to.what course to take and how to get there. ‘The tendency touse  the work of aUnesco team in one country as the fixed~bench mark for measuring the perform-  ance and setting the, standards for another country should be discouraged. A policy of flexi-  bility, encouragement and discretion should be pursued more vigorously in the future by the  Organization, to avoid the eventual reduction of the education systems of developing States to  one model, .
4.24 Mr. ‘President, this Conference has before it a document packed with projects symbol-  izing the dynamism of Unesco on the one hand, and the growth of the Member States on the  other, At the sub-commission stage, my delegation will have the opportunity to comment in  greater detail on specific projects and the respective financial allocations, It is my hope that  Unesco will endeavour, as never before, to implement to the fullest.extent the policies and  programmes reflected in the draft budget for the next biennium.
4,25 At this juncture, Mr. President, I take the opportunity to reaffirm once again, in the  name of the Government and people of the Republic of Uganda and of my delegation, our con-  sciousness and recognition of the vital work of Unesco. We are ready, and Uganda willcon-  tinue to render support to the co-operative efforts of Unesco for the total advancement and  fulfilment of man. And with this, my delegation extends best wishes for the continuing well-  being and success of this Organization. Thank you, Mr. President. ‘
5,2 Tiene la palabra Su Excélencia el Honorable Dr. Borg Olivier, Ministro de Educacién,  Crltura y Turismo de Malta, Jefe de su Delegaciôn. Co.  | (8.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from thé Spanish):  ’ I thank the Minister of Education of Uganda for his statement,
5, 2) I call apon the Honourable Dr. Borg Olivier, Minister of Education, Culturè and Tourism  , of Malta; Head of his country's delegation. er »
6.1 .Mr. OLIVIER (Malta): SL 104010"  Mr. President, allow me first of all to convey my personai congratulai.ons andthe con-  gratulations of my delegation on your election to the Presidency of this Conference. I sin- ‘  .cerely feel that the Conference should be congratulated on having chosen such.a".eminant  person as yourself, Sir, as its President. I hope that it will not be considered 5cresumptuous  for a delegate representing a very small country, such as our island is, to take the rostrum  and address such an august Conference. And I greatly appreciate the opportunity given to  me to address you. . a
6.2 I hope that the few words I will be uttering will not be taken as a kind'of catalogue of  what a small country ‘like ours can do in the fields of education and culture, but rather as  : proof that while, as a developing country, we frequently ask for; and need, the help of Unesco,  we may hope to persuade and convince you that'we know how to use this help and are deserv-  ing of it. : :
6.3 The country I represent is a small one but its position in the centre of the Mediterran-  ean has ensured that it has always been influenced by the developments taking place in the  countries which surround it or have had dealings with it. Since independence and admission  as a full member tô the, United Nations and its international agencies, Malta has benefited »  by extending its contacts even further. This is especially true of education, . and for ‘this  Malta owes a debt of gratitude to Unesco, which has helped it greatly to keep abreast of edu-  cational developments by providing assistance in various ways. 85
6.4 The two major themes of Unesco's work in the advancement of education are, to quote  its own words, "the right to education" and "the relationship between education and develop-  ment". Of the importance of the former my government'is acutely aware. We are more for-  tunate than many in having had universal and compulsory primary education for the last 20  years. Our setondary'school education, although it has been expanding steadily, has so far  been confined to students passing a competitive ext mination. I am happy to: report, how:  ever, that this year, the International Education Yes r, has seen the end of this system be-  cause as from this month, free secondary educ ation}ir become available to all. This quanti-  tative ‘expansion is being achieved with no loss in quility, for the whole ‘system is being  modernized at considerable expense and we have an ambitidus programme of in-service  training for our teachers.
6.5 The relationship between education and development is of the utmost concern to ouris-  land state, which has very few natural resources but a bountiful supply of skill and rescurce-  fulness in its people. Our last two Five-Year Development Plans have'aimed' at'diversifying  the economy and strengthening the infrastructure. A fair measure of success has been achieved  in attracting light industries and developing tourism. Such develdpments of course have  educational implications, which we aré tackling by giving added importance to technical edu-  ‘cation through technical institutes and through the College of Arts, Science and Technology.  Unesco's contribution to the College in staff and equipment is duly appreciated. - i
6.6 Expansion at secondary and post-secondary levels has beer accompanied by expansion  at university level; Our Royal University recently moved on to a new campus andthe out-  put of degreé graduates and diploma: holders has increased by 700% during the last decade.  Here too there has been diversification. The proposal to make Malta a centré of Mediter-  ranean studies’ especially as far as languages are concerned; is being actively pursued.
6.7 I may further add that it is our declared policy to make available free'higheï éducation  to alf thosé who have the necessary qualifications. ‘The implémentation of thie scheme in  the very near future will mean that free education will be available to all young people from  the primary school to the university, and that the educational level which every student can  reach will depend fiot oñ‘any material consideration but solely-ôn his’ ability and perseverance,  A ' a I. K FI . = EE sath EE ISA SEI
6.8 In science Malta's’ main contribution’his been in connexion with thé peaceful uses of the  sea-bed. ‘In November 1967 Malta introduced before the General Assembly of the United Na-  Lt «fruits ne
7  tions the proposal that the sea-hed and ocean floor be reserved exclusively for peaceful purr  - poses ‘dnd'that théir resources be used:in the interest of mankind. This/proposal gave added  impetus to soientifiè studies of. marine resources and marine possibilities. Following. Malta's  proposal there was an evident world-wide intensification of such studies. The Centre for the  Study of Democratio:Institutions of Santa Barbara, California, held a series of conferences  «which drew experts from all over the world to consider the various problems arising out of  the rationaliexploitatiori; conservation and protection of the world's oceans ..: Malta fôllowed  up its initiative in this field by continuous and very active participation in these conferences,
6.9 In Jénuarÿ 1969, the Government of Malta extended an invitation to the Centre:to'hold a  convocation in Malta; . This convocation, held in June-July of this year under the title "Pacem in  Maribus'', wag the culmination of the series of previous conferences and in it.the resuits of  intensive scientific studies and research held over a number of years were discussed in a  gathering of distinguished scientists and other experts in marine affairs. No doubt the ma-  terial which has come out of this convocation has been of enormous scientific value. Malta  has thus made an appreciable contribution to the study. of a very importait problem which is  bound to call for immediate solutions in the very 1 near future. TE ..  a yooh an  Poet Lu vt
6. 10 In the field of human ecology Malta. has been chosen as the venue for the forticoming  Commonwealth Conference later this month, at which Uriesco will be represented, This Con-  ference will inyolve the study of relationships between plants, animals, human beings and  their environment, and the social and economic implications of those relationships. It will  also examine conditions in Malta in particular, and relate them to ecological development  elsewhere, - Co a a Coe >
1 bee ’ Jone te IK RIE A A ,
6,11 In culture we have a long and: distinctive record of our own. Malta is a'treasûre-  ‘house of man's artefaots dating far» back into prehistory, We have devoted considerable  funds to the preservation, development and rehabilitation of our cultural heritage. The.  Council of Europe, appreciative :of:this fact, is assisting the: Malta Government in the im-  plementation of a pilot projeot in the preparation of the Protective Inventory of our historical  monuments, buildings, sites, eto., and the first part of this Inventory hae been completed  and shouldbe published shortly, It was therefore fitting that this year Europa Nostra should  hold their annuel meeting in Malta. - . . i n Cary
6.12 In th= figurative arts we have this year staged the XIIIth Council of Europe Exhibition  on the theme "The Order of St. John in Malta", with ita underlying motif of the unity of dif-  ferent peoples which was of the very essence of this order, I trust that the co-operation re-  ceived.from all quarters in this onerous task will lead everyone to hope that similar co- .  : operation can be extended to other. and wider, facets of human endeavour. .. . . +  ft 19 HS - us ot t [RYN PAE! A FERN  s. 15 1.repeat, Mr. President, that I, hope it will not be considered presumptuous, of me. to  tell thie Conference of what we have done in the fields of education, of culture. andof science.  I felt it my duty.to show the members of. Unesco that when we receive. help, in any form, we  try to deserve it.  : [71 BEE to ! : ( . P 4
6. 14 Finally, Mr: "President 1 would: like. to declare solemnly here thatimy. country sub  scribes unreservedly to the ideals of Unesco regarding man's freedom.to-develop andenjoy  his gifts; und to:assure:you that it will continue to strive to mairtain high such. ideals. Our  contribution may be small, but it is whole-hearted....Thank you, Mr, President. . -. . -  v1. Bl PRESIDENTE: - Foon, pe adit tu 1 V0  Agradezco al Excmo; Señor. Ministro de > Educaciôn de Malta las palabras que açaba .  de pronunciaz. PPI NET LP 10 1 et dy, + Ce eee GE VA  HO OUR BOY RIE D T4 ot ant € L Lu Ten ia SU
(7.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Minister of Education of Malta for his statement.  ° (7.2) Thé nexy speaker Is Miss Kalavaiñen, Minister of Education of Finland, who will speak to  ‘ue in Finhibh." Tn accordance with rule 57 of the Rules of Procedure; the Finnish delegationhas  taken the necessary steps to have the text transiated into English, and it'will subsequently be re-  translated into the other working languages of the Conference. : :
(7.3) I cal] upon Miss Kalavainen, Minister of Education of Finland, Head of her country's dele-  . gation. 2m - . ; A  : ' . . D Fi, EE EE 3 - ' ‘
8.1 Miss KALAVAINEN (Finland) (Speech delivered in Finnish; English translation pro-  .. vided by the delegation of Finland) . Lu ‘ CL ,  Mr. President, Jadies and gentlemen, may I start by joining, on behalf of the delegation  of Finland, those speakers who have congratulated you upon your election as.the President of  eur Conference, and wish you the best of success in your work. Indeed, it is not a very easy.  task to preside over this Conference with its multitude of nations and specializations, con-  fronting an equally baffling multitude of issues and questions.
8,2 What we hope from this Conference is not only that it should approve a programme and  budget. What we need even more is a clear vision, a consensus of opinion as to the present  state and future course of Unesco, and more generally, the rôle education, science andcul-  ture are playing in the lives, of our nations and the international. community Attending this  Conference for the first time I admit that the chances for a clear vision and a consensus, of  opinion do not seem to be very good. I think that we here in Unesco are on the brink of being  swept away by a flood of seemingly senseless amounts of detail and administrative jargon.  (I + R PE CPR ' J seu EE
8,3 As a politician I know that what js not generally understood to be sensible and.ugeful will  not, in the long run, be supported and financed by the citizens. It is in this sense that we we) -  come the continuous self-appraisal of Unesco and the effort for long-term programming now  submitted to the General Conference, i. .
8.4 The basic, position of my government with regard to Unesco is one of continuous, sin-  cere support and active co-operation, It is a reflection of the Finnish Government's dedi-,  cation to the whole of the United Nations organizations and the ideals and principles it stande  for. .We_reaffirm ,our belief that international educational, scientific and cultural co-  operation is an indispensable tool in the creation of a-spirit, of good ne ghbourhood among  peoples. It is, furthermore, this specific aspect of international life that is, more than per -  haps anything else, open for, participation by vast masses, gf.people - not statesmen and dip-  lomats alone. We also reaffirm our belief that education, science and culture are indispen-  sable components of; all human, and social progress and that, through Unesco, the educators,  scholars and artists of the world should have a say in shaping the future of our societies.  This is not a task for the economist of the politician alone. Herein lies the motivation for.  the existence of Unesco as a separate organization within the United Nations system.
8.5 Thus we, would like to see Unesco play. its due rôle in the planning and execution of the  Second Development Decade, , We would like Unesco to contribute effectively and intelligently to  the solution of, the problems confronting our environment, What we are afraid of is that Unegco  will continue. to spread, its unquestionably, meagre resources too thinly, trying tp cover am-  bitiously.a very, vast field indeed and really not satisfying fully any needs at all, . .,  A > te PE DER 04200" ET vin
8.6 We share the Director-General's concern about the continuous expansion of the Secre-  taria and we welcome the measures suggested to. remedy this trend; pamely, more decen-  tralization.of.administration,. more delegation of authority, more corpperatiqn with Member  States, National Commissions for Unesco and international non-governmental organizations.  It is, however, questionable whether thesg,measures will be effective, . There is no sign of .
7  it in the Draft Budget and Programme for 1971-1972, If the activities, and correspondingly  the Secretariat, continue to be grouped in the present way, which is one of compartmentali-  zation, even the present personnel resources are clearly inadequate for a satisfactory per-  formance,
8.7 Thus, we feel that there is a need to adopt more clearly the idea of a project organiza-  tion, THis, of course, implies painful decisions and clear priorities on the political level,  But we think that the Organization is ripe for them and that it is, in fact, the only way in  which we can progress.
8.8 It is not a priority to say that education and science should have a highet percentage of  growth than other programme areas. In the present world situation we need new strategies  and new tactics to win our battle. We think that some enterprises have already proved the  usefulness of the project approach. We are particularly impressed by the International Hy-  drological Decade and the International Biological Programme as administrative and scien-  tific exercises of avery highlevel. We hope that the programme on "Man and the Biosphere"  ‘will be constructed along these lines so that it can draw upon the resources and enthusiasm  of the scientific world and involve non-governmental organizations and governments alike in  a large-scale joint venture. 2
8.9 It is clear that one cannot both eat one's cake and keep it. Concentration on a few vital  projects must mean the dropping of activities of secondary importance, There is much to  be saved here. Unesco should take a good look at other intergovernmental and non-  governmental organizations, at governments and at the world of learning and research and  should decide whether it is not in effect, in many fields, duplicating what is being done else-  where, whether it is not competing instead of co-ordinating, whether it is not following in-  stead of leading.‘
8.10 Unesco is a world organization with a global responsibility. It should therefore use  its authority and not be afraid of showing the way. I shall cite but one example, that of sci-  entific information and documentation. It is a burning problem in every scientifically and  technologically advanced society. Thus, we welcome the effort to éstablish a WorldSciénce  Information System. But, with the present resources of the Organization,’ it is clearly im-  possible to do this properly without consultation and co-operation with other organizations  and also with the business world, ‘The needs for information systems are such that in most  important flsids, such as medicine and chemistry, the development is already yëars, if not  decades, saead of thers. Unesco should hot try to run a world information system in the  first plac&. 'The first priority is to get the governments and organizations involved to agree  on a general plan for such a system. Those withmost money or with thé most pressing needs  should be allowed to do the building of systems themsélves. They will do it anyway. What  is in the interests of our governments and our scientific developmerit alike is that the build-  ing should take place according to an acceptable general plan.‘ Otherwise we shall find éur-  selves in an uninhabitablé and costly jungle of systems; dividing the world instead of uniting it.
8.11 I shall have at this stage four more observations to present. Two of them are positive  and the other two critical. -
8.12 First, we find it ‘extremely significant that the Organization is" at last starting to de-  vote serious’ aitention to the problemi of the mother torigue in education. ‘Education givento  yéuñg children in a foreign language ¢an bé'a waste of time and effort and db’ serious damage.  We appreciate thé social and even political problems involved, but we'think that it i8'impoy-  tant for the Organization to recognize that when we are speaking of education,’ it doés not’  mean education only in Unesco's working languages.
8:13 Second, we-éüpport the idea of involving youth more ‘actively in Uheséo's work, büt hôt  only youth! why rot also old people, women, workers and farmers, groups within which there’  may be a tremendous feservoir'of interest, enthusiasm and support for what Unesco does “and”  aims at.‘ 1 think it was this that the drafters of Unesco's Constitution had ii mind: a genuine  mass action.
8.14 ‘ Third, we think that the decision-makingprocess of Unesco has become too ‘costly end  time-consuming ih comparison with the results achieved.) We propose that the Executive  - Board should try to find new ways to reduce the lerigth of its own sessions and those of ‘the  General Conference. ‘ We repeat the call for reduced documentation. -
8.15 Fourth, we much deplore the very wedk way in which the Draft Programme and Budget  deals ‘with thé project "Man and his environment’ approved by the last session of the General  Conference. What is proposed for the next biennium does not reflect the importänce given to  this r=oject in the long-term outline plan. We think this is a pity, since here Unesco would  have had a definite and original contribution to make to the United Nations Conference on En-  vironmental Problems in 1972. y
8.16 We have had the possibility of assisting in the preparation of this ‘Draft Programme and  Budget, since Finland is a member of the Executive Board . We have partiéipated in the con-  sultations of the Secretariat with Member States. We shall, therefore, refrain from making  any more observations at this general debate but shall reserve our comments for later  occasions,
8.17 The Finnish delegation is prepared to accept the budget for 19711872 as proposed ‘by  the Director-General and the Executive Board, We also accept, with some hesitation, the  broad outlines of the proposed programme. We aré particularly hesitant about the cultural  programme, whichis indeed very weak and should be redrafted in the light of the conclusions  of the very successful Venice Conference on the institutional, administrative and financial  aspects of cultural policies. Thank you, Mr. President. :
(9.1) ‘The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank Miss Meeri Kalavainen, Minister of Education of Finland.  ’ ’
(9.2) I call upon Mr. Kyong Park, Vice-Chairman of the National Commission of the Republic  of Korea for Unesco, Head of his couniry's delegation,
10,1 Mr. PARK (Republic of Korea):  . Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen,  the Korean delegation wishes to extend, first of.all, our sincere congratulations to you, Mr.  President, on your election to the presidency of the sixteenth session of the General Con-  ference.
10.2 The Korean delegation further wishes to take this opportunity of conveying our warm  greetings to the distinguished delegates and all those present here.
10.3 We have been deeply impressed by the speeches we have already heard from speakers  from various parts of the world. Nor should we fail to add our tribute and congratulations  to those, already exp essed for the tremendous efforts and achieyements made by thig great  Organization of Unesco, under the able leadership of the Director -General, Mr. René Maheu,  in its activities over the past two years. We also acknowledge with great pleasure the -ad-  mirable work of the Director-General and the members of his Secretariat, particularly in  their efforts toward simplifying the format and structure, without loss of clarity, of the  Draft Programme and Budget of our Organization for the coming two-year period. (  .10:4 My delegation is highly impressed by.the Director-General's excellent presentation of  the:long-term-outline plan: for. six years startirg from 1971. We have found in this new dn-  cument far-reaching insights and significant suggestions as to how. we cin collaborate in th:
7  diversified yet integrated efforts of Unescoly projects in education, science and culture and  thug contribute to, the full development of the Member States, and the building of a world com-  munity in the years to come. We shall pe bringing to your, attention on later appropriate oc-  casions our more detailed observations and opinions concerning this long-term plan.  -10,5 Mr, President, pleage allowme to present very briefly tothis august body some aspects  of our progress andachievements in Korea, which are closely relatedto Unesco's programme  and activities. : ‘ 2
10.6 If we regard education as a vital factor in the development of a nation through the ful-  lest use of human resources, then I think I may claim that Korea is one of the most rapidly-  developing countries in Asia. We believe that the tremendous economic growth of our coun-  try, which the world has witnessed in recent years, is very largely due to this maximum  utilization of the gross potential of educated manpower, resources now available. in Korea.  This investment in human resources was initiated.as early as the years immediately follow-  ing the Second World War, and we are now, 25 years later, reaping the harvest of this judi-  cious undertaking. 20 .
10,7 1 need hardly, refer again to the significant rôle the year 1970, as International Educa-  tion Year, has played in the deyelopment.of world education. But I should like to pay tribute  to the Member. States. of Unesco for all the timely. undertakings and activities they: have. car-  ried out in this connexion.- We, in Korea, have also planned and carried out. many significant  and productive programmes -in the. context of the International Education Year, To mention  only one among many, I am gladto report to you. that à national seminar for the improvement  of school buildings aad facilities, designed to explore all possible forms of quantitative ex-  pansion, in parallel with the qualitative improvement of education, was;held very recently  with great success, in collaboration with the Asian. Regional Institute. for School Building Re-  search, As a part of the country's overall national long-term educational planning to take  effect as from 1971, this effort towards simultaneous qualitative and quantitative progress  provides a clear and positive indic ation of the, sound lines on which our education is developing.
10.8 As regards youth activities in relation to education - a matter which deserves our ful-  lest attention and most careful deliberation = my delegation requests, Unesco to take allnec-  cessary measures to promote activities aimed at associating young people more closely in  the planning snd implementation of the objectives of development. ‘ To this end; we wouldal-  so humbly urge Unesco to adopt a fully “integrated approach to consolidate its programmes  for youth students in the coming two-year programme. Ce , , cour I FA
10.9 ' Allow me, Mr. President; to présent to yok ‘just a few of ur succéséful ehterpkises  in this regard. The “New Campus Life Movement" voluhitarily initiated in 1962 By out young  university students in:Korea through the dombinéd efforts of 40 Korean Unesco student as-  gociations and the National Council for Youth Organizations in‘Korea, which embraces’ 19  national bodies in diversified youth activities, has now become a well-established part of  our youth programmes in Koréa. | In obdér to help these young people maiittain’ their bright  outlook and aspirations in the pirsuitiof ‘#¢adémic resdnreh sd the ‘sound’ devélopment of  personal character as future leaders, the Korean National Commission fur Unesco has pro-  vided the!youth organizations concerned with'such regular activitids ‘4s suminét and ‘winter  sohodls; Voluntary community servicés, international work catips, ‘exchange of ‘students’ with  foreign countries, student conventions, ‘training coursés workbhopé ; seminars, ete 0"  - rai PE . - .
10.10 ‘With regard to the propéséd programme àf the’ education sector as a whole! dnd role  particularly ite emphasis onthe’ regeneration of ediitation dnd thè'céiiéept'of life-long edu  catich, bothiof which we see as very realistic vehtires, we pledge our active support atid"  participation in this practical field of Unescd's work, ' “11 ET TTC Ces  "10.11. The: Kqrean. delegation attaches gréat itiportance to the. teal of thé soélal sciences,  human vciences, and cultaré; for theses fields are more than ever'closeiy linked with iinet  portant aspects of human relationships, capabilities:and attitudes. We are glad tonote the:
7  evidence of efforts in our proposed programme towards administrative and:intellectual-in-  tegration of the various disciplines and activities in these fields. It is also encouraging to  see that the Secretariat is strengthening the sector of the social sciences as an intellectual  and practical means of gerving mankind, thus further. accelerating progress towards the so-  . lution of the great social problems confronting humanity today. … +‘. =, Ce  HR ; or ' > 13 or tae : IER oa at fe . 4424 4 PIER Fa to
10.12" In the domain of crlture, the Korean delegation <u %in finds it most. gratifyin to see  the widening horizons of cultural studies concerned with the Asian region, such as the .pro-  , duction of guides to sources for the history of the Far Fast, cultural; studies of central Asia,  the study of Buddhist art, cultural studies of Malaysia and Oceania, etc..
10.13. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, at this point may I inform you that the Korean  National Commission for, Unesco is about to. publish - indeed it will have. done.so before the  end of this Conference - the first authentic suryey of Korean history, written in the English  language by noted Korean historians. Thanks to the generous encouragement. and assistance  provided by Unesco, this book of about 300 pages will provide foreign readers with a reliable  means of access to understanding and appreciation of Korea's rich historical and cultural  heritage of 5,000 years, unfortunately ‘too little. known hitherto,. and at the same time may  help to correct any misunderstandings which may have gained currency inone way or another.  ont LE + : LU + D . > . : Gor A
10:14. We are particularly happy also.to note the many other projects of considerable mag-  nitude fo.» regional cultural studies envisaged in the proposed programme. These and two  other sections of no less importance and value, namely, cultural development and interna-  tional dissemination of culture, will receive our full attention and support. -
10.15 With regard to the important programme on natural sciences and their application to  development, the Korean delegation whole -heartedly welcomes arid supports the development  of the long-term world-wide international ço-operative programmes concerning the work of  the Intergovérnniental Oveanographic Coibiission; the International Hydrological Decade,  the World Science Inférm.ation System and the International Geological Correlation Programme .
10.16 The active participation ¢{ my country in the international co-operative study of the  Kuroshio current, through the Korean Oceanographic Commission, and also the National  Committee set up for the promotion of the International Hydrological Decade, has provedto  be aparticularly fruitful and successful experience and hag convinced us.that such initiatives  ae the World Science Information System and the, International Geological Correlation Pro-  gramme are indeed ypluable componepts.of a co-ordinated campaign for the advancement of  science at international level. As these programmes are implemented on an international  … scale, being multidisoiplinary in nature and calling for combined efforts and collaboration  of all concerned, we earngstly. pledge ourselves to full co-operation'in them in the future.  te a ‘. TITLE RL FI IEE
10,17; With the programmes concerning science policy and the organization of research, the  application of science, and technology to development and other practical fields, such as life  sciences, scientific and technical information, science education at ell levels, training ‘of  technicians, engineering and agricultural education, natural resources, research and eco-  “logys; ete, we find ourselves in general agreement and will be interested and wiiling to play  our part is their advancement... . ; > we LT" .  . 0  co GONE - its 42 “3 Co  - 10,18. Lastly but pot, east, important, the Korgan delegation wishes to stress again ita be-  Hef in the important and vital role that the National Commissions in each Member State. can  - play. coupled. with enhanced. support and. coroperation from the Organization itself. Their  rôle as bridges linking the Secretariat and Member States through their normal functions of  Maison and advice should now, we feel, be given amore executive emphasis through the deve-  lepment of effective machinery for, action. .The introduction of a.spirit of greater. initiative  and. generosity on the part of the National-Commissiône in the discharge’ of their. tunctions,  referred to-by the Director -General in his long-term outline plan, is:a matter that will mort  serious consideration at. this Conference, -Ât the same :time,.the fresh iinpeius for co-  gperation and the same new spirit of greater:initiative and generosity are also io be expected
7  from the Secretarial, and we look forward to ‘innovations in this direction from the Head-  quarters of the Organization as well,
10.19 The Korean National Commission for Unesco, which was established some 15 years  ago with only a handful of staff memb.rs, has now grown to-a large organization of some 50  full -time staff members in its own Secretariat housed in a building called Unesco House in  Seoul. It is quite proper to'say that we are now indeed ready to discharge our threefold func-  tions of )laison, advice and execution in the fullest sense and thus we look forward to even  closer collaboration and participation in Unesco's programmé activities in the years tocome,
10.20 In conclusion, I would like on behalf of my delegation, to thank you, Mr. Director-  General, and also the members of the Secretariat for the devotion and efficiency shown in  preparing this session of the General Conference, and for the kind co-operation that has al-  ways been extended to my country, the Republic of Korea, in every respect. Thank you,  Mr. President.
(11.1) The PRES!DENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 thank the delegate for Korea.
(11.2) The next speaker, Mr. Van Mechelen, Belgian Minister of Culture (Flemish), will speak  in his native language. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Belgian delegation will  have the text translated into one of the working languages.
(11.3) I call upon Mr. Van Mechelen, Head of the delegation of Belgium.
12.1 Mr. VAN MECHELEN (Belgium): (Speech delivered in Dutch; English translation pro-  vided by the delegation of Belgium)  Mr. President, may I first of all express my pleasure at your election to the chair of  this Conference and congratulate you in the name of the Belgian Government.
12.2 Seizing the opportunity presented by this General Conference of the United Nations Edu-  cational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, I should like to put forward for your consider-  ation two notions which I believe to be of great importance in the world today. The ilrst of  these concerns one of the facets of the university as revealed in the modern phenomenon of  "contestation". I should then like to bring to your attention a few ideas about what has been  called the cultural challenge, with regard to the new world which is taking shape.
12.3 In the firat place, I shall examine the position of the university in the present spiritot  contestation, During the last few days, I have given much thought to the fact that we, the  adults of 1970, are preparing for the Orwell world of 1984 and even the era of the new mil-  lenium starting in the year 2000, By that time, today's young generation will have taken over  the controls from us. This means that we are facing a kind of paradox, as one ‘generation  is now elaborating the structures and expression-media for a world where the following ger.  eration will live.
12.4 After these few introductory words, let me speak for a moment about what is known’  as "contestation" or "student protest’. In a certain sense, centestation is a phenomenon  which must normally be considered within the general framework of the generation gap.  Indeed, there has always been a conflict between the so-called concept of gerontocracy, on  the one hand; and the concept of geronticide, on the other. ‘Throughout human history, the
7  right to lead the world has always been a bone of contention between two generations, each,  of which aspires to the exercise of power. - The first of these is a conservative generation  while the second is a protesting one, The conflict or clash existing between these: two groups  is linked with the fact that one wishes to introduce and impose new-stardards an values ‘and,  at the same ‘time, hoth generations wish to lead the community, Because of the combination  of these two circumstances, the resultant clash may give rise to a struggle which can fre-  quently assume a certain violence. This is how a chairman becomes an honorary chairman,  how au old politician honoured for his past activities is asked to retire, how & profesgor be-  comes an emeritus professor and how some people are left pawing the ground, waiting to  take over. :
12.5 However, as a sociologist, I think I may say that contestation has now acquired a new  dimension. By this, I mean that student protest is a phenomenon of our time .and that, in  the future, it may even assume greater importance. ‘Why? Well, because modern times  are characterized by two extremely important types of outlook. First, there is the so-called  scale increase or extension of the world scope; then, thare is aisô the democratization of  human contacts, which is considered also by some thinkers as equivalent to the personalization  of human intercourse. . -
12.6 - In any case, with regard to the student world, it is obvious that the particularly not-  able increase in numbers we have withessed over the last ten years is a basic cause of the  manner and form in which this phenomenon took place. Between 1850 and 1967, the total  number of students in Belgium rose from some 20,000 to about 50,000, Such a phenomenon,  very similar to what happens in the case of a sudden demographic explosion, generates lack  of balance between needs and necessities, on the one hand, and on the other between the an-  ticipations of the organizing structure and the actual possibilities of fulfilling them.
12,7 The existence of the phenomenon of this considerable number of students has, more-  over, caused dialogue or consultation and participation to assume a massive character.  Furthermore, a type of structure is now being developed that will entail, within student  groups, a differentiation as rrgards the radicalization of their longings. There is a suffi-  cient number of competent students to create, within the total group, an élite, the shock-  troops of contestation; those who are acting as militant groupe and who call themselves  "gyndicalists', and who are operating in our country as well as in Germany, France, Italy  and now also in the Latin American countries. These students take on themselves a rôle  which departs from the normal rôle of. a student. The social function of a student, as it is  generally considered, is indeed te -tudy, Militant students, however, consider themselves  as "full students”. They are entirely different from the old type of "student prince", who  registered at the university and spent year upon year there. This type did not care about  study but wanted to create a romantic atmosphere of student life in clube and student groups,  in a context of clubs, songs and "rags". Today, they are replaced by real students, not only  those whose aim is to study, but also those who see it as their duty to work out arecognized  status for students as a whole. These latter want, for themselves, the status of students.
12.8 At this point, I would like to highlight the double parallel that exists between students  and workers. It was when the factories had a sufficient number of workers to form massive  groups for concerted action that the labour problams of the nineteenth century began to teke  shape. The workers then started to organize themselves; they made lists of collective claims  and demands; they wanted these claims and demands to be satisfied. Today, we are faced  with a similar phenomenon resulting from the large growth of student numbers. Incidentally,  I would like to add that such general movements. of contestation are not often seen in small  groups of the student élite or, afortiori, in small élite universities where a "slausus numerus"  is applied and where only a limited number of students is admitted; in such cases conteata-  tion assumes the form of special phenomena bound to the problem already mentioned of the  generation gap. ;
12,9 ‘The second parallel is the following: all this lacted until factory workers became suf-  fielently numerous to allow some of them to quit working, in get an insight into the organi-
7  zation of labour conditions and to get an adequate knowledge of the basic procedures hy,  which workers! glaims could be. satisfied, Today's -atudent action is: quite similar, in as  much as there are also "exempted students’, They are often called agitators and they give  shape to students! claime, Very much like the first trade-unionists; they call themsolves ;  the syndicalists of the student world. Although the majority of studente admit that contes--  tation does indeed include something valid, they do not consider themselves boundto follow  their leaders. In a way, we are witnessing the first heroic period of student trade -unioniem.  which, maybe, will later develop in more peaceful syndicalist says. ,  go . pe tel “ Lo ‘13 A Tai 1 ra ’
12.10 I believe that Unesco should not lose this unique opportunity of capturing this move-  ment of student protest in order to direct it into positive channels in the future.  , "© . 0 - LP { : RE ; A
12.11 I would like now to emphasize a second point which concerns culture as a challenge,  Numerous definitions of the térm "culture' given by distinguished sociologists and philoso-  sophers have a common denominator in as much: as they describe culture as an inheritance,  from a people's past, which inheritance must be côritinuously transmitted to future genera-  tions. ‘This is an extremely interesting notion of culture which derives its full meaning from  the fact that the successive generations are conscious of belonging to one and the same oul-  tural source. There are also some other definitions of culture which are much more closely  related to the increasing struggle of man:to identify the patterns within vhich he can trace:  the progress of his own genius and vhich might allow him to master his material environ-  ment more fully.
12.12 If we consider for one moment this second concept,..it is obvious that culture ir a:  challenge on the part of man's inner genius to his own technical achievements. Technique  is always used by man to improve matter within an ever-widening horizon of intellectual  grandeur and maturity. At the same time, these technical acquisitions have provided man-  kind with a high degree of comfort and luxury which seems to have been welcomed in a gen-  eral atmosphere of superficial materialis.n and of acceptance of what is known today as the  consut.rer society.
12.13 In the face of this materialism, culture has the task and mission of calling forth new  patterns of humanity, in which the creative power of spirit and body can be reflected. This  is the challenge addrassed to cultural menkind in the physical expression of sexuality. This  is the challenge addressed to cultural. mankind in the new expression of religious values.  This is the challenge addressed to cultural mankind in the expression vf new political powers,  in the elaboration of a larger world, for us, here, in western Europe, 1ov the whole western  world, and for all of us living on this earth, the planetary community. It is the challenge  addressed to cultural creativity to translate this planetary community into.the interplane-  tary space of tomarrow: . ; . .
12.14 It seems obvious that such a conception of culture is extremely dynamic and that, if  it embraces. Rubens, Rembrandt, the Flemish primitives, the great sculptors, painters and  writers, it will also give due attention to new powers for the people. This means that we  are moving further and further away from en élite-type culture and, often also, from a''bour-  geois" culture towards a new kind of culture of the democratized world. This is the culture  of each worker and clerk, of each farmer, of each gardener, of each shoprkeeper, of each  executive.and of each scholar. It is a movement o! cultural democratization, not by a sys-  tematic lowering of its level nor by a type of "vulgarization levelling" in terms of the lowest  common denominator: on the contrary, itis an ever-increasing effort.to answer the challenge  of this democratizationto new lines of cultural endeavour. Jr )
13.15 And is it not trué that, thanks to growing leisure time, with greater prosperity, ‘the  vôle played by the communications media is ever-increasing, throwing down once more the  challenge of a planetary society? So
12.16 As we, men of the tweutietieth century, and on the threshold of a new century; begin  to think in terms of a world-wide context and as we consider the problems. of the devéloping
7  countries, we are again facing a new challenge, How will the'"have' countries, with their  profusion of goods, react to the, total poverty of. the developing regions? A further challenge  adds itself to those already mentioned in the cultural field itself. How, in the cominunities  of tornorrow, will the different cultures infegrite with one another? How will it be possible,  in complete harmony, to combine tomorrow's united world multi-culturalism and the ever-  increasing regional powers of individual countries?
12.17 ‘This challenge of imult!"-culturaliem is particularly important in countries like our  own where two distinct groups are present, each of them with its own language and culture.  In quch a small country as Belgium, Wwe are faced with a real challenge as we find the ele-  ments of two cultures, with a dialogué and a social life, in total mutual independence and  reciprocal respect, bit existing also’ in a broad European and universal spirit. May I just  point out, here’; that the longing for cultural autonomy will not lead our country into a cul-  tural autarchy, in which people would feel enclosed as in a cultural ghetto. It has always  been the policy of Unesco, to its great credit, to encourage this kind of multi-cultural con-  tact. Ithink thatthe new millenium on which we shall be entering in some 30 years will pro-  vide Unesco with à new challengé again. ~~ ©  Lo 7 (ET . a.» . [I L 10° 2
12.18 For this Organization, with its great past, all this constitutes a remarkable fund of  experience on which to build the future, Qur culture aims at a fraternal futyre and, in so  doing, it represents a guarantee for the continuing richness of the different national‘com-  munities in the context of an ever-growing planetary unity.  ,#
1 thank the Head of the delegation of Belgium.
(13.2) I call upon the Tunisian Minister of Education, Youth and Sport, Head of his country's  delegation.     (Lens gid) i perl) ld! Jiladl andl yg  SE 6 odd) sam  els SPRRUE TS | BFR J | RPO lys 6 an spi S Jpsne ui I pal of 58 [PES  pl oly ssp pL ese) dpe Le S LAINE ial) Leos, RAFLE By PVN]  ini or mel of 3 à Yessdl GAS gaenaiadl slasdl old dislall Giles AVIS  Sl ppg Jay 6 Limba y Lidge dj Ll ny  - 6 ot dl sae  pe Ml ila 5 JAI y dpm] jai pee shy ipaadl sda JI Lady + Le Add ogy  dope ob olaadl a ASE Ly gas ad EL ASS sidi 6 peludos Joue pubadl jprge  : BO Tr LL  dls i ped! idol goo lo god pl Cia plaies ¥ lisses Lis pms of ole = rer  Fos ladine Tomb 385 6 oh cand edbd Lil 3 ema ids! yo ole cp gahJlÿs 6 3 hdl  ; voll reall JUS dyad] FIL dl send Lass
1e SU PRUE BY SPU [NY 5 5e HEL SERINE SEINE, | Raye TN Lagadl 3 6 Lendl  + bps gl ga ST gd plaid 90 ie LAIT Gail Kes Wb pees Of 6 pS yd  RC a IE EELS ay SN PRET LAIT SIN Faye  ad iis + is NESE du Ji eau = av cales ss a. 6 Vas -— M  coped IE AI J 5  | «vdi sa
6 CI SLA EUR go pasha yd! paola épis ty of es Lo lll Jay,  L ds UJ EJ. OU | NPY WN | RRSURVN | Rk Sars i | I DORN FR XVI aa - IPO Ÿ CU  Laasl asl ob lis ge NL  hdl saad gil aad Li les cL gad! Juphdl Bhiadl pe, of dds VC NEA  ads pall aedly odds sue LAON 45359 of pL oad Gls ole ddl ry 5)  Lr J 545 wll Add Mla 6 " dsl id yl, sil” au Joi  Ledlassl 555 6 Tas dake Jos ilo) C/N py SSI Ge US db, oy - an  ol— ry PSE WF a «rl on oH Leg plied] his ge aaa oh  Cel, Las CL  oh ins bay Aus AI ladda) Gils. Jobo Lady slasl say = y(n.  SR YNIR NS fins SEPU a Ry PRIS | RANE |  os! el LIN CUBA ans saad of 6 pent sae 6 5 ENON ER 4 PET ITE  | vor sShell grill ob SR DI Ue  oe AN Ball Pla as LS Le pall dl HAS WI0E sled — yn  ed 5 6 oS aly ol 58 Ada ge opmsme Juif lan lo Lis 6 Vas, Loin pd Yl  (af fie pires + Lisohie 44 pps IR 1) Je SOR SN WEN CET J SA Dy SES |  diay of ain V 051 9 ddl AS 6 ed Bus Vy elle LEY Na 0 6 anes  égal pl all (pb pda as ge ANS dag, sue SI i IN Joy OIL, glad]  slant pry gas, Led chibi jel otal ge >Les Le per sus of ofall ga)  taal gl all Léa il el sppaadl oo JUS 55 ody ool all sda oi aula]  "gl hil” Sl Tea L 1515 Lest 500) Glas i ans of cam saadl Vis 5  Uhadl ge of JAI ofa Ju 6 Tas gab Sal 31 AUS Lo "pan, TELUS” 5 7 hal”  GH JSLadl sda Ls dandl lige asl ol lal AG 55 dE lad oT  ciel AA LE opie bd 5 dogmas wal
7  Lobo eS Lien pier of phi Lod pis of Gens eipsdl ap dU — yer  gs of Liichie curl 9 ce af ages + SO) | IS I at LE sf,  any las of 5 6 IT Lp til SUN Ds pene Joie pda] penis haine Jl as  Beds Joga Joly 58 tod] Gog 6 44 pla] shi hs ple Lede Jha JS US  lid LU cand! oS 6 cli) Baby Jub gle Jes Us lies» Llate Nage  $ gly ways UW oe plies Le JS Ud JR oly daar spas bases LS  goal GLS Lagos adi am Lisl Gian Vd! Land Labs of ole — ene  hd ge of aged] Vda pb Lele ob ba ads oe Jl ons Ju 6 Sahl CLS Lea  cooled gas oF SLE Obl ge Ge my 6 Lis  od Jest aad opted) as bpd pd Ble Bell of add cee die — i000  oF A LIU el phe dl AVES L patil y JR alle isl 6 wens WIE JLT oil  SU ST fhe Bay leas, Sas - Jad! dd plead] ps las pha]  eb) del jad) USE Leeda pas gs Bl eda cl ded) 5 JIE Obl 5e of Ld 54005  » Louyllis, Lobby Lobo Jul! of ald) ells  ol dell i Li SI il pile Ll ol is ded! LA SLI ol — yt  may dar cll Lane al 505 dagye dbs sand Lael pl AL Il ple dead.  dls JU Shey Le rs cab ells oo dial lias, gl phasd 6 Loyd  ve Lull ue Jad  Sings V5 6 Lslio Gentil ol add) ay jpess Hohl) pl gigas 3,50 ol — 101  Uyèp M ppl phase Jai = idly 5,50 pl gay = Oem grungy Bs pS JA YI  Imre Jl gl aly Fold] ge orb od gly 6 Lad) pans  CAUSE YE atl lin of alll dls 5 pdesdl Sas dee SUN 050 V5 0 LIL  Gi dl GS Jeadl 6 JELe5Il ppm anid of weal sl oe of wins Td = MONA  In hiof 56 ns RL. Lea iSI Me 355 JOU [REV ¥ | al y JL STR Ur of = on  JP CON le BRUCE | J WOON | Ir SEER Pat Lal ’açue Jas dub peasy 6 dde  » syumdl y LAT Ll deadly add SI  A) le p SAN andy pl add dda gd dp anid phaindl Jaadl of — yen  RET PORE RRWRT LE J EX PON LS 55 RR PATA SE PUL FON sli oes staal 5,50  pry 6 JL gb Lipid] elengadly lad) glans Gl Le JU pady = VEY.  iy JU 55 amy staal tml Gls Joss of 6 1005 diay Ladd ol AL  Je of od 35h05 wall paki dade oY) sda cil ps LS tli Gal pana  Jpendl 51501 GR Ga dy Uipdy LDL ais gay Lledo 6 I LAIE Ll  vdiy ole JS des of 3 = Saad pans B11 ol NAS a pe aly JS  Liye ol Jlasl 33150 Glo pt JS Jody Vol pods of wom = domed] LG GAS  REI | JUIN, SPY |  FES | « iby y de of lS 835 550 [3 15555 gi Led! ds fp pad of ols — ot  Vlas oa V aSiadl of HN 6 Sal Ls Jor 6 5 Lake Tia ob vskas JS ua taal  NN PYUTRSUT) APS Bre. Is PEST CP RR
7  sedis Las of - SLI Tia ob pels jaa dam onl 455 0 pS dl Glo 5 = hots  ida dpi of 5 6 age Gbhasl EST aad] antl gla Ley (YT ay oe  mem ol Lead 51 Lalblas gal my supa of ge 6 Land] 1 A) Less! 5e bobs  comes Yt aed  of de ob toma! Glo LAN Geilo pl Lead Lj lesed wos Gs - very  ff ae pal LENS Laye 51 855 5 Spel | 9e EN 5 6 PE  Jedi pb dg Lely ge Ss oid Gall JS OL 6 saad] Tia pd eit  Ldn pb dod ol [dL Gams plas JS Laan Gall ec LG ye LUI ple GA  voli ay of oem Vs 6 Luss pret] 54e of dl  be 365 of wang Smad] tnd] JUS Spee JS of eas Ll Gls ye  bid ge Jai vaste cel dal join Al any of 5 0 crdaedl 035 Lans  pit ina tl gail pd dt jadis ed tarde of ps Le Jao LU  sat | RibAIIN pes of 5 6 Ft0 0585 Len" i ata 5 AN JS”  ss ds J sd Lys 6 pads JS RR OF. | By TY LAS RV REO POI [We © olL is  —IAYO 5 VAYEHIAYT ihre ob puddles pes) fhe ol Iles pis bei os  + JAY‘  paul 515 SALON LAN 1055 List J | Ri DR EU | IRS DUB PE POT)  fase ob and oly adl ol jaded! Lin apasadly blé ai” of 5a, 6 plat  spl eds 58 Lane Logo 24 Ÿ 51 6 AA A5, 1 da yes WETS | IK SU JR) 5 6 7 SEY  iin ails ge gaaadl 5 6 ue Ley Lids ad veces bles OI of dus
5 AGJLSIH J diy os gat SLA IE JL 5 yaad sl ud  ol oil gma ls LAS, sl ol osl gl os Saas or=l of Hs «run  Aline s FUROR U0, | [PRON i SURE | Ir) JL, JU J RO IN SM atl arn  dager JS, busy Jendl Gob pusasd of aly Jus ob uA der oe weal GI GL  » Lis$, LS 6 pl api lie pi ÉOLIEN Ge of ori Ai JS — vif  dll ray i pelo dle Bass Less 5 Jl ad aay ono SES SSI of eds V5 — yeory  — 2805 of | 5e LiiSs F5 6 ph | Ry Wes | Re (yes Le pds ESS IE a  Lacsiol BL gÎl cl jl onl phys 6 geloomdl ddd gods sll lll cb pmadl 5)  i axl0l 5 lbs pass 655 wail ge af 0555 oul pam aay pais 5 SN  BN UURTY § Ry BUYS § | IS WON |  ip) gonad él ipepill ilesdl iol ge oe Jans of Ly Lame Vf Ge oyna  PIO, | ICU SN SURE RC RN SS J | RAPA ER 00 USE § DVN | AS 6 ALI Gye of
6 sysALondI UW andl Jobat Jones ols 6 Le Lite mates 6 Shab!  isl SVT AIS Gé + planed) I sll pled 6 sl poly ptlaadl Go pas aad dy  elas Lo 134 Jail Lin ob pb aay Logis of ofa els puns all ALES  oxsbpedl ob bg JL, Gortlly és longe I ole go gdnedl ST er  JS Ll phat 6 ir ge 454515 sl NV pel dt bad Leddy es Lead (  RENPRVY J pr ce Gresl AIN Ga 19555
7  oley duel Josh dbinadl pu) ob plat eae! ol al Gl of J ays mss — MONA  loll elf iad) ob Lialosal JulS Jliy of gio SAIT ipl gned Il el Jun!  JESS. | Jsssd a I BB ER ae eR fi 5  pl 351 A I I ET Le | Tt Gps  sprl Haas de 559 lds saad Ju sb hhiddil pus ds po Sl Lari of is prided
6 Lys aly Lede gr oi is ob peal Jol pod ET Ula lan oF le eum  pe JSS pall of mas oes + Lard! paladly Land] AAA ol age my I  pobre eS pl, Jet) Bly 0 idl ge py) et Lhe dl  Sins) pill y pada] Garb Us, fgets bday plo of pons pull Lhd  ol Ll is pore pris dad Land! idl Jobe dl dal Jonies of 5 6 pest  top oe Leslie ol pea Leta dandy JS of ad eds Les de ls pote GIF Lela]  vk y pedal! Lagos  bs laey shail Lol 01 JUadl Amis woody pleat aSyf of apt ots — very  v piiidl y adel dE hid Lao np 8 | 350 6 peiald dasa ad) gels  of 54 Lig 5 Tn! Banal SLA pL ally Glas, Les Lf - herr  ini of oe ST pall LS pes pl Can II ol gd] LU 5 Less 05%  ans SSL 55h50 205 Lie JS Lee of 31 6 GUN slay SLT slay ol pp dl 2p ls go  edges ileimed] Ltyley Lpdel jo amgiass 6 bode am Jl dactandly deadaadl of ALI  folie las ole Lpipeh Wo 151 VI pel 6 Lgl ge Liioie 9)) go prises Ÿ is  … LlJk Leal ast sf  ot gam of a Loads oT pedal] SL ad) GUI py sae Lf — re  diy ai), edd ob ple] le pads pe 085 6 ad LION oe dd as LG  JENNIE SF SIE PUVICOR UN Pv BEX ts) Iyat SNS pps FEN LRP SO  MSI 5 Tp a  ov As LoiVI pda l y SALUE gol Je LD gén ol ail STI sols = pero  Jb hha] oz AJISS 6 JAYY — 11Y) ited ASE Ll Sal 5 peli] 25  jy aS Led Lanioli wl slaxs¥l AS mu, Var dif bleu, Lips 6 saad  LL pp haÏh habit plas II al SN IGE phan tal ols, pSdedl lah yi  | Pp EF J Ly at Jusf Us ob Joas dogme Jul od  OLLaNl Gain Jem ody soll Jee oF Lily 6 pull Gy JUIN ob gles  . hi,
7  ee jobs, Laslail peed! gel ol 5al didn, plod JS Lib 435 — MMA  Lm land Jb open sys of ST] lo pain pl eds Lie A  Y Lans of 31 6 anata, ills Lie, UY LW toss 2S LG op Se 5  Jt il gum 58 6 ommend] pt peed] sid SLE dy IL OT ny  … BIL igealy eS Red eld 6 pled] Lipase ob Lala  ps——Jal 5 adie Lidl ay pais SAIT gyal sadly Gl RTE FU Lines V5 — yery  clhbidl § &gnddl gad of HS IL Gas le glad] gies ob ei sly aus Lasal  plain le diayy «el hdl gel jgaidl pds 19007 ody 6 esl Lia plead!  ors Ve ald Luicb, LAN J ops of le ge Finy Lal 4b 55 iL  coposl US1558 bay Lesley JSLaddl 31500 oe Xe aks Sis deny  er ams of ogy 6 1 a, Lhed) pall de pagal” py pte Labs] addy — NEFA  + Lines il STK OUI WRU. a Il FERS SS RRA oy Ld Saal if  oh Le goin Lis LosVl pada glacadl SSII of 6s Ger on ends — rT  re bis p sins CoV ats ides) ligand of yo al pla] oe 64  LRiaio gst oi pend Ble o Laid pladdl (J els = sls of LL  of Stel james oan if JI Ll pe of Bh ide 6 Leds  al yat plas oe eds dl ob 3530 0055 of 5 6 of dell Lis ob Las pes Jol yo
0 Lyuli Il eld ec Uhaddl on  JY LI SUT | PRP WN RW PES |W SE OR ETERS PE SAN Go gas EE  yma Lpdadons iri aly 6 apanse Sul of Ld ga 6 Pd IE ala  ol laid! 25, Léa I 5 ol and opis es opal (ie aad + Ge Lail  ols ge 3 6 idyll ELA U00N 5 > lasdl Jyadl ge JS im SE Ley ea  plesal Ge) solazsl Lada ge phe Ly Loa Lela 000 of Lapland! sia  ilo pf ad dae
6 yes ie MN gaia) plac a As Sd load 500 Hs A Lui AIS = yt  What) GAL I pyddl aS pets ol 505 Res yas Baill LAS JU  FEA RU | J I VSR I PES [IPR || PTI Lee JUVE |  oho petal phd added! JSlaah le islet, AIN Bars Lb - yt  LUG island phil Jam of oligo ill depete plas 5 JJ FUR GEE) ER  JER STIR TN URS RECRRE TE FIRE EI arts EE 15 ob Ii of lad gay ode pena  plea pts Gilly beled laced! opal SIU ais + daily geal  sprl of Lily bigamy SiSee idpa) elo Ud Jang Ub elle Lf Led  vo Jobs of ely Sleaddl da J  vielen ide, lind) p UI gas Lad juny LJS Jai] of asf Verbs — hear  pladgs ol Lys dif Gall yo lan MS aud ay ob Lee coun gif LL Gb Pld  pid] gp Ud] da pie of | a 5 6 Anant A VA IR ER VAL  pl ya Leis idl wld] oly 0 ail pe B00 od Laer als ws ul  clam dry Was Lal dda pda) gf pn Ho sl BU
7  ——s PIN PYPRERIC SENN | Jy FUROR IT JERS ER EN a a LT.L  ony + BLU JI Led ob Janse al ohh 6 ill Blade sei  Lda bles pb AI us go pubis Gunes le ps Joes LS 6 Ol ,oe¥l Tan Joes  JENNY By KJ J | IST UR JET > IY IPSN dj dns PSI > ge Ee Bp KS SIC old Le Lt  » pal Vin gs pad Sandi Jushdl BRAIN pe, iy sl paedly pele dl psa  Lt à Sed, ie pes Jali als ial Ue Ln, Kul oles of J yd us) — Vito  Lis Sh pe Le Lili AIN gd Le ple BILAN pla, ob lobey 6 ytéss ia  » Pm Lda iandl saad plas! one — pled IG 8  ¢ od Hdl dune
6 Lishi JL 44e) eds lg os ——f of 559 gi dS sl of al Y 2 yun  OY US | Ry VON Re ER I a a JIE] IREPORT Sa BW JUS,  Sil oi LA LLA US ik $ Sap ld spay 6 AI pel JE olay 6 sl edd  odd go el pul 545055 Blin, 6 ly AIS dl pets JUAN all  vob 54 par cL i pelandly dasdl, Mad] 5 pis of LH  my dpe] 55 pladl mand) Us que of aay — oS ul Gls cmmadl gay = ety  gd Ska YI C1 las andl ped nell RSS delay pews 6 pled os  ii Sy pablo ibd Lal Le JU Le il Al je py 6 Bid] it eed]  « I gaïJl pal Lid I  PE | a Er — OI SV 5154 UE Jy SET | PW | Bg # KT ROU JN [A FE TPR T ST}  La ges gina) aa bus Gall gl ally Laisa gl add] gory pis PO 1 I LL gl  {14.1) Mr, CHEDLY AYARI (Republic of Tunisia) (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr. President, allow me to begin by offering you my congratulations, and those of the Dele-  gation of Tunisia, on your election to the presidency of the sixteenth session of Unesco's General  Conference, to prezent my warmest congratulations to all the elected members of the Conference  Secretariat, and to express our confidence that our work here will proceed in a rewarding and  successful manner, thanks to your wise guidance. -
(14.2) Our delegation has come to this session overwhelmed with grief and sorrow at the death  of the great Arab leader, Gamal Abdel Nasser, in whom our Arab people struggling for their dig-  nity have lost one of their pioneers un the path to liberation and development.
(14.3) However, our grief and sorrow do not weaken us in our determination to proceed on this  path, and in particular to persevere in our efforts on behalf of the people of Palestine, the victim  of an oppression which represents a defiance of all international conventions and all human prin-  ciples,
(14.4) We areconvincedthat itis the duty both of all peace-loving peoples, which cherish justice  and freedom and have faith in human values, and of international organizatioria such as Unesco  to assist in enabling the people of Palestine to regain its natural and legal rights.
(14.5) We must thank the Director-General for the great efforts he is making in co-operation  with the United Nations Relief and Works Agency, on behalf of the refugees.
(14.6) Our delegation also wishes to pay tribute to the memory of Mr. Edmond Michelet, the  French Minister of State for Cultural Affairs, in whom the free world has lost a strong fighter  for justice and peace.
(14.7) In addition to the regular Draft Programme and Budget for the coming biennium, we are  presented at this session with a long-term plan for the three forthcoming budgets. Disregarding  any éomments or criticisms which may be prompted by thé content of both these documents, we  are obliged, after perusing them, to thank the Director-General and the Secretariat for the care  they have taken in their preparation.
(14.8) Undoubtedly, the long-term outline plan does not fully meet the requirements of resolu-  tion 1.33 adopted by the General Conference at its fifteenth session. The Director-Generalhim-  self calls it a first attempt, and attributes this to reasons which sppear to us to be sound.
(14.9) Nevertheless, document 16 C/4 is a very useful tool, and although it contains a large  number of question marks directed at the General Conference, it must be confessedthat all of  these points are accompanied by a clear, detailed and subjective survey of the data upon which  any options to be taken must be based.
(14.10) The members of our delegation, in the various commissions and sub-commissions, will  express our view and define our position with regard to all the questions raised by document 16 C/4  and also with regard to the proposals contained in document 16 C/5.
(14.11) Permit me, however, Mr. President, to offer certain general observations suggested  to me by an examination of these two documents.
(14.12) My first remarks concern education, which we still consider of primary importance.  So long as there are children who are deprived of education in any country, education must, in  our opinion, be given top priority by our Organization. This means that we firmly and unhesi-  tatingly support the spread of education. We murt not in future allow an attachment to quality  “rather than quantity to become a pretext for limiting the spread of education in the developing  countries. We can make a8 many criticisms and reservations as we wish concerning the results  of the spread of education in these countries, but deszite this the efforts exerted by them in the  field of education must be counted to their credit. If problems have now arisen in connexion with  "dropping out", "repetition", "wastage and "yield", this is a perfectly natural situation. Infact  it can be said that one of the great advantages of the spread of education in the developing coun-  tries is that it has highlighted these problems, whichare by no means new but had already existed  even in countries other than the developing ones.
(14:13) It is the opinion of the Tunisian delegation that our main objective must be the spread of  education, especially as it is the only way to eradicate illiteracy. It considers that our Organi-  zation must set about the preparation of a plan to universalize education, embracing all the coun-  tries concerned, and that it should thereafter assist each State in establishing its own plan and in  seeking ways and means of financing its implementation on a regular basis. It is true that this is  a difficult, long and very expensive task, but is the aim of education as we see it todaynot worthy  of all the energy, time and funds it requires?
(14.14) However, cur support for the spread of education does not mean to say that we want to  achieve this aim regardless of the cost and under any conditions. On the contrary, we are the  first to be conscious of the weak points, and even the failure in certain ceses, of our efforts in  this field.
(14.15) Ever since the developing nations set about accelerating the spread of education, with the  aim of universalizing it as quickly as possible, anomalies, shortcomings, and even errors that  have seriously affected the economic and social development of the countries concerned, have be-  come increasingly and all too alarmingly apparent. It appears to us that the cause of these ano-  malies and errors lies in the fact that these countries have educational systems which are not  really adapted to the true facts of their situations, their resources, requirements andtraditions.
(14,16) The fatal attraction which the educational systems of the advanced States exercise on the  developing countries causes a most complex situation In which requirements become daily more  acute and the gap between those requirements and the resources of the majority of the countries  in question is constantly widening.
(14.17) The idea, today outdated, of a standard development model which characterizes the ad-  vanced States, and can only be achieved by a particular schooling and educational system, para-  lyses most of the efforts for educational renewal, and gives young educators in the Third World  a feeling of deprivation, which is only accentuated by the failure of efforts to spread education  in many of these countries,
(14:18) We therefore consider it essential that everything possible should be done to encourage  the imaginative effort which could enablé us to break away from habits and attitudes of dependance  in order to seek new models, devise new methods of action and rebuild the educational establish-  ment on foundations of reality, democracy, authenticity and efficiency.
(14.19) The real work of educational renewal in these countries requires a determination to re-  ject the idea of blindly following any imported model whatedever, even a model for educational  renewal,
(14.20) The crisis that is sweeping through education and educational institutions throughout the  world, and In the advanced States especially, should hot lead us té eek in only oné direction for  one single model of educational renewal, For although the consequences of this crisis’ have the  same violént and disturbing character almost throughout the world, its causes, on the contrary,  differ as profoundly from country to country as dothe realities of each country's specific situation.  Therefore the desire for educational renewal, although manifest everywhere in the same degree  and informed by the same lucid determination, must be based first and foremost on the will to  exercise creative imagination and abandon subservience to outdated traditions.
(14.21) However, the determination to reject inherited models, whether they bé imported or im-  posed, by no means entails a rejection of co-operation in this field. On the contrary, no imagi-  native process can bear fruit unless it is based on broad arid varied knowledge.
(14.22) Unesco, which has already played an important and decisive part in this field, should re-  double its efforts to make information concerning educational renewal more systematic and rapid.  In particular, it should increase its assistance to research institutes, with the aim both of strength-  ening their programmes and activities and of helping to establish them where they are non-existent.
(14.23) While welcoming the interest taker by the Organization in educational research, we think  it important to point out that whatever technological or methodological innovations may be achieved  in this field, any benefit that can be expected from them depends at the same time onthe theories  and objectives upon which each educational system is vased. That is why research in this field  is now clearly seen to be a necessity, and can by no means by regarded as a luxury.
(14.24) However, we consider that all efforts in the field of educational research should be centred  on the teacher-training colleges, and extended to include the whole body of teachers already in  service, We therefore note with satisfaction that the draft programme and budget provides for a
15% increase in the appropriations for the section entitled "Educational structures and teacher-  education’; and that the long-term outline plan recognizes teacher training to be the essential fac-  tor in any progress, and still more in any educational renewal, and recommends that the appro-  priations for this section should be increased by the same percentage in the budgets for 1973-1974  and 1975-1976,  {14,25) To sum up the preceding remarks I should like to say that we fully support the Director-  General's opinion that "democracy and renovation are the two essential elements in the field of  education in our time", and that one cannot choose between one or the other, since both are need-  ed at the same time, Democracy answers a moral and political need, while renovation answers  the need for efficiency, rational use of resources, and reduction of costs.
(14,26) Before concluding my remarks on education, I ehould like to say a word about literacy.  The increasing attention devoted in recent years both to national literacy programmes and to the  experiments which have been conducted in a number of countries with a view to diversifying exiat-  ing methods of action and perfecting new ones, encourages us to look forward to an improvement  in the results obtained in this field, both quantitatively and qualitatively,
(14.27) Undoubtedly the time has not yet come for judgement to be passed on the world experi-  mental literacy programme, based on what has been termed functional literacy, but we can at  present assert - despite the difficulties encountered in the implementation of this programme  and despite the reservations of production circles, which are not yet convinced of its usefulness -  that it would be desirable to increase its scope and to integrate it with the var’ous national devel-  opment plans. 5 ,[  -(14,28) However, this should not cause us to neglect the planned national rass literacy campaign,  which, while applying and drawing its inspiration from the methods of funcional literacy should
231   make use of modern mass communication techniques in order to consolidate the results obtained,  and eneure that literacy once acquired is not forgotten. Educational radio and television can play  a particularly important part in this field, if combined efforts are made by the various establish-  ments interested in raising the sociel and professional standards of the citizen, both to produce  radio and television programmes and to organize the necessary frameworks for student reception,
(14.29) We support the Director-General's point of view, expressed in the long-term outline  plan, concerning the need to devote maximum attention to post-literacy work in the years ahead;  for it would be pointless to mobilize the masses and make huge human and financial sacrifices,  only to see the new literates relapse into illiteracy after a few years. The measures proposed  in the draft programme and in the long-term outline plan will undoubtedly stimulate efforts being  mage in a number of countries to accelerate the eradication of illiteracy, It is however necessary  to increase the moral and material aid given by the international organizations, especially Unesco,  to countries whose limited resources do not always permit them to undertake action on a level  with their aspirations.
(14,30) These were the remarks I wished to make regarding the activities of the Organization in  the field of education. If 1 have gone into some detail on this subject, it only proves the import-  ance attached to it by our delegation.
(14,31) There is another field to which Tunisia, as © developing country, attaches no less im-  portance. That is the field of the natural sciences, We consider that science, along with educa-  tion, is our most important means of emerging from uaderdevelopment, We note with great  - satisfaction thé Organization's initiative aimed at securing a scientific approach to the problem  of the application of science and technology to development, and at using the latest techniques to  classify the developing countries in sub-groups, possessing common parameters as regards their  scientific and technological development,
(14, 32) I should also like to confirm my country's interest in the experiment undertaken by  Senegal, which recently, with the assistance of the United Nations Development Programme,  established a National Centre for Planning Scientific and Technological Research,
(14,33) Regarding the programme "Man and the Biosphere" we are of the opinion that it should  be directed towards the preservation of natural resources - which are of importance to all of man-  kind - rather than towards combating pollution of the air, rivers and the seas, The problems of  ..»mbating pollution are the special concern of the advanced and highly industrialized countries,  +.d the study and possible solutions of these problems require financing on an enormous scale  which cannot be borne by the resources of our Organization, unless we should do so at the expense  of other more important and immediate problems,
(14.34) As for the proposed establishment of a world science information system, our delegation  wishes to state that it supports this project with deep conviction, and that Tunisia intends to take  part in its implementation. In the past few years my country has made great efforts to create  cadres of highly qualified personnel specialized in librarianship, documentation and information,
(14,35) I should now like to make a few remarks concerning the philosophy and social sciences  programme, The Draft Programme und Budget for 1971-1972 and the long-term outline plan  announce an impressive array of activities notwithstanding the modesty of the relevant budgetary  allocations. The two documents also reflect the present evolution towards the involvement of  philosophy and the social sciences in such concrete human tasks as the acquisition of mastery  over ourselves and the world around us, integration in the world and in history, and the struggle  for devalopment, human rights and peace,
(14.36) We have noted with great interest the various sections of the proposed programme, es-  pecially those relating to publications. Unssco should endeavour to ensure that these appear with-  out too much delay and are distributed as widely and efficiently as possible, Distribution of some  publications among the public and in the world of learning is currently far from adequate, notwith-  standing the fact that they represent major contributions to human knowledge.
(14.37) We are bound to recognize the validity of the twofold rôle assigned to philosophy and the  social sciences - namely, to achieve a better integration of these two disciplines in the various  aspects of research and operational planning, nnd to promote the clarification of concepts and  theories, and in general of the various projects which are at the implementation stage, This will  have the effect of restoring to philosophy its original function which le to encourage critical  thought and thereby generate a better understanding of problems, their significance and their  bearing.
(14.38) We note the project for a comparative encyclopaedia of philosophy, and hope that ade-  quate coverage will be given to the present-day thinking and traditional philosophies of Africa  and Asia,
(14.39) We also consider that social science documentation fully deserves the increased atyen-  tion it has received, ‘and that the work done in donnéxion with automatic documentation dnd the  establishment of storagé banks will definitely make it easier - especially for the developing’  States - to control the flood of documents received and turn them to the best possible accoun',  Unesco should pursue its efforts in this field in order that it may be in a position to make the ap-  propriate basic data available to Member States at the earliest possible date,
(14,40) Regarding the long-range programmd to improve and intensify "teaching about develop-  ment" in institutions of higher education, it appears to us that the question is complex and should  be analysed with the help of specialists, This will require an evaluation of some of the attempts  whi_h have been made, with varying degrees of success, in the pas ‘few years by both the Mem-  ber States and international organizations, Such an evaluation woüld provide the Venice Centre  with a broad and solid foundation on the basis of which it could attract the attention of a nuraber  of developing countries.
(14.41) As regards the teaching of the social sciences in technical and engineering education, the  approach suggested appears sound; we could, however, stveèss how important it is to learn from  the experiments currently being conducted in this field,
(14,42) As for the application of social sciences to the problems of péace and developrient, this  shold lead to tangible and positive results, especially by giving the-social sciences a concrete  objective, It would be appropriate for the Division of Philosophy to participate in this worksoas  to ensure continuing refléxion in depth and on an interdisciplinary basis, Another activity espe-  cially deserving of attention is youth research, particularly as it has followed a path which makes  international comparisons both possible and fruitful, In our opinion, efforts in this field should  continue, ;
(14,43) Finally, ! should like to gay a brief word with special reference to the Culture Sector.  Because of the priorities which I mentioned at the beginning of my statement and which have been  taken into account in documents 16 C/4 and 16 C/5, it has unfortunately not been possible togive  this sector the increased budgetary allocations which we would all have welcomed, The Director-  General - hag explained notcbly in document 16 C/4 - why this could not be done, and his reasons  appear to us to be eminently sound.
(14,44) However, the Director-General himself recognizes that Unesco's mission is essentially  a cultural one, and that its centre of gravity is ultimately destined to shift to culture. We take  note of this recognition and also of his determination, in the absence of a quantitative increase,  to achieve a qualitative increase of the Organization's action in the cultural field, The proposals  contained in the draft programme and budget and in the long-term outline plan are evidence of this  determination.
(14,45) We should like the Secretariat to have the ability to intervene rapidly and effectively  wherever such intervention is necessery, especially in cases where the cultural heritage - so  often a very rich one - of the developing countries is threatened with destruction by the brutal  intrusion of modern civilization,
(14.46) 1 should not like to conclude without expressing my highest consideration for the Director-  General of our Organization - for the noble ideas expressed in his presentation of the draft pro-  gramme and budget; for his deep faith in peace, and for his vision of Unesco as a means of help-  ing to achieve peace in the world through the development of education, science and culture and  through the creation and consolidation of international instruments designed to strengtnen the  cause of justice, brotherhood and solidarity among mankind,
(14.47) It is most difficult for anyone, ‘after hearing the Director-General's defence of develop-  ment and of peace, and especially his moving reference to Mr. McNamara's statement, not to  __approve of the proposed budget, about which the least that can be said is that it is excessively  modest in comparison with the aims we seek to achleve.
(14,48) The time has come for the wealthy States to think, before it is too late, about closing  the gap which is increasing between the advanced countries and those which are'striving to de-  velop. Thank you very much.
(15.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank the Tunisian Minister of Education, Youth and Sport.
(15.2) Icallupon Mr. Dossou- Yovo, Minister of Education, Culture, Youth and Sport of Dahomey.
16.1 M. DOSSOU-YOVO (Dahomey), -  Monsieur le Président, au nom de la délégation du Dahomey et en mon nom propre, je  tiens à vous féliciter de votre élection au poste de président de la seizième session de la  Conférence générale.
16.2 Le 11 mars 1970, lors de l'inauguration du Bureau régional de l'éducation de l'Unesco  pour l'Afrique, à Dakar, M, René Maheu, directeur général de l'Unesco, déclarait : "Face  aux besoins, aux aspirations et, je ne crains pas de le dire, au désarroi moral d'une .huma-  nité engagée dans une mutation accélérée dont le sens, a bien des égards, lui échappe, le  moment est venu de repenser les données mêmes de l'enseignement, son contenu, ses mé-  thodes et plus encore peut-être, sa finalité".
16.3 Cette noble et grande préoccupation n'a pas échappé à mes prédécesseurs qui, dès  l'accession à l'indépendance de riotre pays,se sont employés à mettre sur pied diverses  commissions de travail. Ce n'est donc point un hasard si les problèmes de l'éducation au  Dahomey ont constitué le thème central de la communication qu'a présentée, en séance  plénière, le représentant du Dahomey À la quinzième session de la Conférence générale,  en 1968.
16.4 Après l'exposé des problèmes, il convient d'aborder le recherche des solutions, et  c'est en cela que consistera essentiellement mon exposé, que j'intitulerais volontiere :  "Vers une nouvelle politique de l'éducation au Dahomey",
18.5 Ce tiire sous-entend l'existence d'une ancienne politique de l'éducation, politique  qu'on peut qualifier de franco-coloniale parce qu'elle n'était pas conçue en fonction de la  réalité africaine, Elle reposait sur un système d'enseignement qui n'équivalait pas au sys-  tème français : en effet, les études ne menaient jamais au-delà du certificat d'études pri-  maires élémentaires et ceux qui désiraient approfondir leurs connaissances devaie.it le faire  à leurs frais en France, C'était une politique coloniale, c'est-à-dire qu'elle répondait aux  besoins de la colonisation, à l'unique souci de former des cadres auxiliaires immédiatement  rentables pour les entreprises économiques et politiques en place,
16.6 Fort heureusement, la aituation a considérablement évolué depuis la guerre et le sys-  tèmé en vigueur aujourd'hui au Dahoniey #e rapproche davantage du système français, Ce-  pendant nous voulons désormais autre chose : nous voulons former des Dahoméens iutruits  des réalités locales, conscients des possibilités de leur pays et capables d'envisagir, à  la lumière de leur expériense quotidienne, des solutions aux grands problèmes que pose  notre développer rent économique et culturel, On me permettra de citer ici le propos cé-  lèbre du remerfuable penfeur que fut Spinoza : "Ce qui est le plus souvent négligé «ans  nos écolos est justement ce dont nous avons le plus souvent besoin dans la vie", Cette  pensée érnise il ÿ a troie siècles est encore pleine de signification de'nos jours, Elle tra-  duit la triste réalité de l'école dahoméenne, et pourquoi pas, de l'école africaine.
16. 7, Que faut-il donc attendre de l'école nouvelle ? Beaucoup de choses, mais notamraent  celles-ci : l'école nouvelle aura une finulité productrice ; elle sera un facteur de développe-  ment economique, politique et social ; elle sera un centre de forrantion de producteurs res-
7  ponsables capables de diriger, d'orienter et de promouvoir notre développement Oui, elle  doit pouvoir faire déboucher les jeunes citoyens sur l'emploi.
16.8 Au-delà de cette acquisition d'un savoir utilitaire, la nouvelle école doit également  viser à la formation complète de l'homme car, comme l'a dit Rabelais, "science sans  conscience n'est que ruine de l'âme".
16,9 Il me faut ici parler de la situation de l'emploi au Dahomey : sur une population ac-  tive de 1. 250. 000 personnes, il y a 3%, 000 salariés, dont 19, 080 fonctionnaires et assimi-  lés. Cette population salariée se répartit en quatre catégories selon le niveau de qualifi-  cation : celle des salariés non qualifiés, celle des sala»lés qualifiés, celle des techniciens  et celle des cadres supérieurs (ingénieurs professeurs certifiés) qui représentent respec-  tivement 70 %, 20%, 7 % et 3 % du total, Alors qu'il y a pléthore de fonctionnaires à Co-  tonou et à Porto-Novo (près de 90 %), on constate une grave pénurie de personnel d'enca-  drement dans les zones rurales.
16.10 Si l'on examine cette situation de l'emploi par rapport à la finalité première de  l'école, qui est d'assurer aux jeunes, à la fin du cycle d'études, un emploi productif, cer-  taines conclusions s'imposent : la préparation aux professions du secteur primaire, qui  occupe plus de 90 % de la population active, doit tenir une place prépondérante dans les  programmes scolaires de notre pays. Le recyclage et la rééducation des 24, 500 auxiliaires  non qualifiés est également un impératif urgent : ils doivent être orientés vers des activités  du secteur primaire où ils apporteront leur modernisme et un esprit plus ouvert au progrès  que celui des paysans traditionnels,
16.11 Ces conclusions sont sautant de jalons à poser vers l'école de demain, En effet, l'en-  geignement agricole a toujours été le parent pauvre de l'enseignement en général, et cela  est imputable à la pensée colonisatrice, pour laquelle i) est plus important de parler impec-  cablement la langue de Voltaire que de bien cultiver son champ. La ruralisation de l'ensei-  gnement au Dahomey, entreprise il y a six ans, doit entrer maintenant dans sa phase de gé-  néralisation, En outre, il ne faut plus se contenter simplement de sensibiliser les enfants  aux réalités agricoles, il faut assurer la formation efficace des cadres de l'agriculture  d'une part et l'animation rurale de l'autre,
16.12 Un autre volet de cette grande rénovation éducative est l'alphabétisation fonction-  nelle de nos masses paysannes, L'étude sociologique réalisée par la Société nationale pour  le développement rural du Dahomey prouve que leur confiance est lente à conquérir, car  elles ont eu longtemps, comme dans tous les pays en voie de développement, à payer en  dernière instance les frais de la folie des autres catégories, Ce sont les fameux ''Damnés  de la terre" de Frantz Fanon, Mais une fois leur confiance acquise - et cela prend du temps-  elles deviennent progressivement réceptives, Il faudra utiliser cette réceptivité pour leur  inculquer les notions Jes plus élémentaires de semis en ligne droite, d'engrais, de culture  attelée, en un mot toute une série de petites améliorations qui permettront de doubler et  même de tripler la production, L'existence des semences miracles, telles que le nouveau  riz de Taiwan ou des Philippines, le blé mexicain ou le mnfs de Nicaragua, qui ont permis  à des pays importateurs comme l'Inde et le Pakistan de produire des surplus, apporte un  élément nouveau et oblige à agir vite, si nous voulons utiliser l'agriculture comme base de  notre développement économique, Le processus que nous envisageons devrait, grâce à  I'animation rurale, à l'alphabétisation fonctionnelle, 4 un encadrernent poussé et à une  meilleure commercialisation des produits, permettre aux paysans d'augmenter progres-  sivement leur productivité jusqu'à ce que devienne inutile l'importation de certains pro-  duite alimentaires. Eventuellement, un surplus agricole pourrait tre dégagé, dont l'ex-  portation permettrait d'importer des équipements industriels, C'est l'industrie alimen-  taire qui, développant le savoir-faire et les habitudes économiques modernes, préparera  la vole à toutes les autres industries, Progressivement, l'augmentation de la productivité  agricole perméttra de libérer des bras ruraux en faveur des industries urbaines naissantes.  Cat exode rural serait souhaitable, Très différent en effet de celui que nous connaiusone  actuellement, il résulterait d'une planification méthodiquement étudiét : c'est le processus
7  classique reconnu, ne serait-ce que dans les théories des Arthur Lewis, des Alfredo Nava-  rette, etc. Il convient de souligner que cette démarche ne sera possible que dans Ja mesure  où les paysans seront aiteints par l'éducation, c'est-à-dire par l'alphabétisation fenction-  nelle et l'animation rurale, Sur plusieurs autres points des travaux préparatoires sont en  cours. Un essai d'étude linguistique du fon comme langue d'alphabétisation éventuelle des  douze cent milie Fons du Dahomey a été entrepris conjointement par de nombreux spécialistes,
16.13 Le Service de l'information, grâce aux radio-clubs et à l'opération Radio-progrès,  a sensibilisé les habitants des campagnes aux programmes d'alphabétisation de masse, De  même, les sociétés d'intervention (CFDT, SATEC, CAITA, CARDER, Opération ATAKORA,  Volontaires suisses, etc, ) préparent les esprits à cette profonde transformation,
16.14 Une telle opération interministérielle, rapprochant les départements de l'éducation  nationale, du développement rural, des finances et de l'information, présenterait ce grand  avantage que la totalité du budget de l'éducation, soit 1. 900, 000 francs CFA, ne serait plus  uniquement consacrée aux élèves et étudiants, producteurs en puissance qui, dans l'ancien  système, ne parvenaient jamais à rien produire (puisque la déperdition scolaire éliminait  des écoles 90 % d'entre eux et que l'inadaptation des diplômes aux besoins feisait des 10%  qui réussissaient des diplômés-chômeurs ou des oisifs} Les producteurs d'aujourd'hui fe-  ront l'objet d'une attention nouvelle, tandis que, de ceux de demain, on fera réellement des  producteurs plus valables.
16,15 Mais comment conduire cette alphabétisation fonctionnelle ?
16.16 Elle commencerait dans les blocs de culture de la SONADER : cette société a orga-  nisé la mise en valeur de plusieurs milliers d'hectares, suriout dans le sud du Dahomey.  Ses blocs de culture coexistent souvent avec des blocs de palmeraies, qui occupent égale-  ment plusieurs milliers d'hectares. De plus, elle a créé une section de sociologie dirigée  par d'excellents sociologues qui, depuis quelques années, ont accompli sur place un tra-  vail qui ne peut que faciliter notre entreprise,
16.17 Puis il y a les champs groupés de coton et d'arachide, cultures industrielles d'ex-  portation comme le palmier. Les surfaces de coton cultivées chaque année au Dahomey  attei,nent 30, 000 hectares. Elles intéressent la plupart des six départements du pays, Et,  comme le coton constitue aujourd'hui la principale source de liquidités pour les populations  rurales, les transformations que l'on fera passer par lui aideront certainement À la réali-  sation des objectifs que nous nous sommes assignés, C'est la voie qui a souvent été utili-  sée pour hâter les progrès de l'agriculture paysanne en inculguant aux cultivateurs des no-  tions pratiques comme celles d'engrais, d'insecticides, de culture attelée, d'irrigation,  etc. D'autres cultures peuvent être utilisées, bien qu'elles nient moins d'impact que le co-  ton. C'est le cas de l'arachide qui, par suite de la baisse de ses courz sur le marché mon-  dial, influe moins que naguère sur les conditions locales. C'est aussi le cas du tabac que  la société d'intervention, la CAITA, exploite activement, et c'est enfin le cas du ricin, du  karité, de la noix de coco, ete,
16.18 Un programme d'alphabétisation des travailleurs de ces blocs et champs groupés  est en train d'être mis au point, Mais sa réalisation nécessitera la mobilisation d'un capi-  tal assez important et d'un personnel formé à cet effet, Ce personnel pourra être recruté  aussi bien parmi les enseignants que parmi les 12,000 agents non qualifiés de l'Etat, Au  bout de cinq ans, si les efforts entrepris ont été, comme nous le sounalione, cuuronnés  de succès, le programme sera généralisé. (1 ne se limitera plus seulement aux zones d'in-  fluence des sociétés d'intervention, À l'occasion de cette généralisation, qui donnera lieu  à l'utilisation de tous les moyens déjà rais en application, on verra se créer d'autres  moyens encore,
16.19 Nous n'alphabétisons donc pas pour le plaisir d'apprendre à lire à nos paysans, et  de les voir acheter plus de journaux ou de livres. Nous alphab/tisons pour les rendre aptes  à bénéficier, surtout dans le dumaine des sciences agricoles, du progrès scientifique et
7  technique et pour les mettre ainsi en mesure de doubler, tripler ou décupler leur produc-  tivité, condition sine qua non de notre démarrage économique, pour lequel un supplément  de ressources est indispensable,
16,20 C'est pourquoi nous visons d'abord les producteurs directs. Ce sont eux les plus  nombreux et c'est essentiellement sur eux que repose notre économie, qui est à 85 % 'agri-  cole. Si l'on peut infuer profondément sur eux, cela se répercutera certainement sur l'éco-  nomie du pays.
16.21 Et si nous arrivons, par une sorte de miracle, à doubler le rendement du paysan,  nous réussirons à coup sûr, car il nous deviendra dès lors plus facile de quadrupler ce  rendement, "Rien ne réussit autant que le succès"' dit-on, Le démarrage économique n'est  pas autre chose que cela,
16.22 Quant à la formation des futurs producteurs, elle nous paraft primordiale. Nous  ne négligerons donc pas le système scolaire, même si nous utilisons, pour l'alphabétisa-  tion Immédiate des producteurs, une partie du personnel et des ressources qui lui sont  affectés, D'importantes réformes sont prévues pour diminuer et même supprimer ces dé-  perditions d'effectifs scolaires qui ont parfois été interprétées comme traduisant un échec  du système. Elles permettront d'utiliser rationnellement les ressources disponibles ; elles  permettront aussi de former des producteurs dynamiques, et non pas d'inutiles parasites,
16.23 Que ces réformes soient nécessaires, c'est ce que prouvent les informations sui-  vantes, :
16.24 En 1968, les enseignements primaire el secondaire ont coûté ensemble 1, 586, 844, OUC  francs CFA. A la même époque, l'examen des statistiques a permis de constater ce qui  suit :
16.25 Sur 37. 010 élèves entrés au cours d'initiation (C. I. ), 16, 847 seulement arrivent au  C. M. 2 et 20. 163 s'arrêtent avant, ce qui représente une déperdition de 54 %. Sur les
16, 847 élèves précédemment mentionnés, 3.400 seulement entrent en sixième, ce qui re-  - présente une déperdition de 13.477 élèves (7 %) entre le C. M, 2 et la classe de sixième,  La plupart des 13. 447 élèves en question sort en apprentissage chez des particuliers ou ont  rejoint les exploitations familiales. Seule une infime partie d'eitre eux a été récupérée par  des structures parallèles à celles de l'enseignement général : écoles de police ou de gen-  darmerie, écoles d'agriculture ou d'artisanat, cours secondaires privés, etc. Sur les
3.400 élèves entrés en sixième, 2. 200 seulement ont accédé À la classe de troisième, ce  qui représente une déperdition de 35 % entre ces deux niveaux, Une nouvelle déperdition  s'opère au niveau de la troisième, En définitive (sans tenir compte des élèves récupérés  par les structures d'accueil parallèles), sur les 37, 010 élèves entrés au cours d'initiation  (C.1,), 245 seulement (0, 7 %) sont devenus bacheliers treize ans plus tard, C'est beaucoup  de dépenses pour peu de réussites : plus de 99 % de déperditions entre le cours d'initiation  (C. 1.) et la terminale,
16.26 Les chiffres de 1968 montrent en outre que, bien qu'il ait été dépensé pour l'ensei-  gnement primaire 1, 200, 000. 000 francs CFA, 28 % seulement de la population d'âge sco-  laire (550, 000 enfants) ont pu être scolarisés, On peut donc se demander si les résultats  obtenus justifient les dépenses effectuées, et c'est pourquoi certains ont pu parler d'un  échec de l'enseignement,
16,27 C'était d'ailleurs 12 le thème du Séminaire qui a été organisé par la commission  nationale de la Haute-Volta avec l'aide financière de l'Unesco du 22 au 25 juin 1970. L'une  des conclusions auxquelles sont arrivés les participants est que les déperditions ne de-  vraient pas être tolérées (qu'elles se produisent normalement ou découlent d'examens ou  concours), Il est à remarquer que la première grande recommandation de ce Séminaire  préconise l'introduction des langues africaines dans les programmes, ce qui faciliterait  ultérieurement l'alphabétisetion des adultes.
16.28 C'est à cause de toutes ces lacunes et de toutes ces faiblesses qu'il est nécessaire  de repenser le système scolaire classique et de lui Imprimer une nouvelle orientation. En  quoi consisteront nos réformes ? Elles porteront sur le fond et la forme, sur le contenu  des programmes et sur les méthodes,
16.29 La nouvelle optique étant le développement, il convient de refondre nos programmes  À la lumière de nos réalités économiques, Des laboratoires modernes de langues sont en  cours d'installation afin de donner à l'enseignement des langues toute son efficacité, -L'agri-  culture et l'élevage seront enseignés à tous les niveaux, au primaire comme au secondaire,  et le nombre d'heures qui leur sera consacré sera supérieur à celui qui sera alloué à cer-  taines mâtières jusqu'ici privilégiées, Les mathématiques, la biologie, la géographie et  toutes les autres sciences s'appuieront sur l'étude du milieu,
16.30 Quant aux méthodes d'enseignement, elles seront fortement inspirées par la psycho-  logie de l'enfant. C'est dire que la nécessité d'adapter l'enseignement à l'enfant impose le  choix des méthodes actives, Le maître renoncera progressivement à son attitude autori-  taire pour devenir en quelque sorte l'animateur pédagogique du groupe dont il est responsable,
16,31 Cette pédagogie nouvelle permettra d'assurer, en mênie temps que l'acquisition  des connaissances indispensables, la formation complète du Dahomey de demain, capable  de poursuivre les transformations que nous aurons ainsi entamées.
16.32 Comment ne pas conclure sur une note optimiste ? "Tout est pour le mieux dans le  meilleur des mondes possibles", pensait Leibniz, Nous souhaiterions pouvoir faire nôtre  cette phrase, quitte à la mettre au futur. En tout cas nous partageons la conviction qu'ex-  primait ce même philosophe-mathématicien en disant que "celui qui est maître de l'éduca-  tion peut changer la face du monde", Certes; notre ambition est beaucoup plus modeste ;  il ne s'agit pas pour nous de changer la face du monde, mais de nous appuyer sur l'éduca-  tion pour changer la face de notre économie. "Est piètre disciple, dit-on, qui ne dépasse  pas son maître. " Aussi nous devons-nous de dépasser tout ce qui a été fait dans ce domaine  avant notre indépendance, de sortir de chemins qui ne correspondent pas à nos réalités pour  nous engager résolument dans nos propres voies, car, comme a dit ce grand Pomme dont  le monde a fêté en 1969 le bicentenaire de la naissance, j'ai nommé Napoléon, "l'homme  supérieur n'est sur le chemin de personne",
16.33 Nous ne saurions terminer, Monsieur le Président, sans rappler la grande entre-  prise nationale que constitue l'implantation du complexe universitaire dahoméen, Oui  c'est là pour nous une occasion spéciale de remercier l'Unesco qui a su, à un moment  difficile de notre politique éducationnelle, sensibiliser le monde À nos problèmes univer-  sitaires. Nous tenons aussi à remercier la France, le Canada, la Sui-se et toutes les na-  tions qui ont bien voulu nous aider à réaliser ce grand projet national, Nous ne doutons  pas que l'Université dahoméenne apportera à la transformation rapide de nos systèmes  économiques et sociaux une contribution positive.
(17.1) The PRESIDENT (Tranclation from the Spanish):  I thank the Head of the Delegation of Dahomey for his statement.
(17.2) In closing the list of speakers for this morning, I wish to thank delegates once more for  the efforts they have made to comprecs their statements s0 far as possible and keep to the twenty  minutes tirne-limit which we wish to observe in order to ensure a proper distribution of time at  our meetings.
(17.3) We shall meet again at the plenary meeting this afternoon at 3 o'clock, The order of  speakers is as follows: Algeria, Barbados, Thailand, Singapore, Gabon, Greece and Canada.
(17.4) 1 declare the meeting closed.  The meeting rose at 1,10 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h. 10  Se levanta ia sesiôn a las 13,10.