Fifth plenary. meeting
(1.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish}:
1 declare open the fifth plenary meeting.
(1.2) We éhall consider item 5 of the Agenda: Organization of the work of the Session (16 C/2).  Document 16 C/1 Rev. 2, containing the Agenda as approved at yestérday's meeting, häs now  been distributed.
12%   Plenary.
(1-3), As delegates will have noted, à number of the recommendations. contained in, document  :16 Ç/2 - dates, numbers (of meetings), constitution of commissions - have already been put into  practice. Some paregraphs refer to traditional practice, ‘while ôthers contain innovations. ~The  seven sections appearing in the index, pages 3'atid 4, ‘require approval in plenary, and it thay be  helpful if [ draw your attention to certain new items. oT fs Co RE  A
(1:4) Some provisions, including that contained in paragraph 6.2 to reduce from 10 to 5 minutes  the period of adjournment when no quorum is présent in a Commission, need .an opinion of the  Legal Committee, which has not yet given one. The paragraphs concerning amendments to the  Rules of Procedure will therefore not be put to the vote until the' Legal Committee has advised on  them.
(1.6) I should like to'draw particular attention to thésé proposed innovations, référring to’ the  general policy debate and to the.organization of the Commissions!work- -A new method for this  work is proposed in paragraph 19 snd subsequent paragraphs which couiiats in adopting as.a ;  central working formula a method of discussion according to which, each, speaker may address  himself simultaneously, to avoid repetition, to wer done in previous years, the Draft Programme  and Budget for 1971-1972 and the Long-Term Outilne Plan. On behalf of the Board, f should like  to recommend that the Chairmen of all the Corhmisslona should thoroughly explain thé iew iethods  outlined in'these paragraphs ht the opening of their meetings, so that all members taking part  may understand them fully. a 6 ; .(  [TRI , ‘
(1.6) I wish to emphasize the importance which should be accorded to the general policy debate,  not only because it will be honoured by the participation of many Ministers of Education, but also  because this indicates their opinion of the Organization's work. The general policy debate is not,  as might appear at a first glance, just a succession of speeches but the expression by each  country of its view of Unesco, which can only be fully described in plenary.
(1.7) This year another former practice, that of summarizing the. debâte ln a general policy  resolution, has also been modified. Delegates are not deprived of the right to choose the topics  they wish to speak on and to deal with them freely, but are invited by paragraph 13. 6 of the  document to focus their attention on given topics of particular interest to the Organization. These  include thé main lines of Unesco's future policy, innovations in education, ‘the demô-ratization of  access to education, ‘the participation of ‘all categéries of people concerned in the’ determination  of the structures, contents and administration of education, the principles applied in developing  national science polities, ‘Boclal sciences applied to hüman rights and problems of peace, and  the programming and evaluation of Unesco's projects. This list of topico-was not.drawn up  arbitrarily but is based on a careful study made by the Executive Board of the main poles of  interest revealed during the fifteenth session and of the debates held by the Board during the  last two years.
(1.8) It 'should also be noted that, in accordance with the Board's decision ‘and invitation, the  Chairman of the Executive Board and the Director-General submitted to the Conference yesterday  document 16 C/4 contalning the Draft Long-Term Outline Plan stated clearly that, if you agree,  you will hold a general debate on this extremely important new document. On behalf of the  Board, I must therefore request speakers not to refer to subjects dealt with in document 16 c/s-  that 1s, relating to the coming biennium - but to future activities: the general pollcy of innova-  tion, expansion and increase of Unesco's work. That is, after al), a special function of the  ‘
(1.9) 4s à result, thé'btaternent in paragraph 15.5 of ddcument 16 C/2 that VIA the light of these  recoramendations, the Board considers that no provision need be made for the preparation of a  gereral resolution at the corclusion of the general policy debate, as at the last three sessions”  implies a change in working methods but does not mean that a general resolution is not to be .  - adopted, since document 16 C/4 does in fact demand one. The change is that, Juso-ordinale the  work of all the Commissions with that of this geheral debate, itis recommended in paragraph 15.1  that the Programme Commission should appoint an Assistant Rapporteur-General tô attend plén-  ary meetings and follow the general policy debate. This procedure had nat been intended for the  Administrative Commission but, in response to the wish expressed by its ChalYman at the'meét-  ing of the General Committee held this morning, the General Committee now submits that with  your agreement the Administrative Commission also should appoint an Assistant Rapporteur. I  repeat that the function of the Assistant Rapporteurs is to follow the gerñèral ‘debate ‘and prepare  a suitable draft resolution or resolutions on general policy without prejudice té any proposals  made by heads of delogations taking part in the debate.
(1.10) To give delegates an idea of the ground for this I should like to point out that this docu-  ment has {our aspects which will not be covered by discussion.in the Programme Commission .  or the Administrative Commission. These are the anticipated rate of growth of the Organizes -  tion in future budgetary periods, general policy relating to future confergnces, the methodology  of document 16 C/4, and its relationship with 16 C/5 - in other words, the way in which the  Conference considers the Long-Term Outline Plan should be developed - in the light of {ts  decisions on the programmé and budget for the coming biennium. =~ 13
(1.11) Having given that explanation, I would again ask delegates whose right to speak is un-  limited, to be good enough to confine their speeches to discussion of these specific topics and  to avoid giving detailed accounts of their national problems or achievements, These have, not  only been given in the reports, but may. also, whatever their importance, be set out in written .  statements to the President, 80 that the account of those aspects of their national policy maybe’  appended to whatever statements thiy make in plenary. A distinction will be drawn inthe ver-  batim reéord between oral stateme dis and reports submitted in writing at delegates’ request.  I should remind you that material should not be added to the record which, ‘had it been said in  the meeting, might have led to use of the right of reply.
(1.12) Delegates who so wish may draft summaries of their speeches in advance and hand  .cop'ns to the Secretariat, which will distribute them in the proper form. Documents will be  “ reproduced for the account of delegations. The Secretariat vo 1d be grateful if delegates  would give notice of their wish to speak, 50 that the General Committee may draw , the list of  each day's speakers. > '  :
(1.13) One point on which I wish to seek the co-operation of delegates attending plenary meet-  ings because of the encouraging experience of the last session concerns the length of speeches. ,  The Executive Board noted with great satisfaction that speakers in the general debate at the  fifteenth session willingly accepted the time-lmit of twenty minutes which it had suggested,  and I should like to rénew that suggestion from the Chair. Although Rule 71 of the Rules of  Procedure provides that the General Conference may limit the length of speeches, I propose  on behalf of the Executive Board that the same procedure be followed on this occasion and that  speeches should not exceed twenty minutes. :The purpose of this proposal is to ensure that all  speakers have an equal time allowance. Successive speakers will be invited by an official to  ocuupy the chairs placed below the rostrum so as to quicken the debate.
(1.14) I now submit the document to which I have just referred for diccussion by the plenary.  The legal questions are set aside for report by the Legal Committee ‘ahd will be put to the vote  separately. The paragraph concerning the Administrative Commission authorizes it to appoint  an Assistant Rapportéur to prepare, in co-operation with the Assistant Rapporteur-General of  the Programme Commission, the final resolution on the general debate and in particular on  document 16 C/4.
(1.15) If there are no comments, I assume that the document is approved. It contains seven  sections, and a draft time-table which may need to be modified according to circur-siances.
(1. 16)/ Document 16 C/2'was approved  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE/DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE/ .  DEBATE SOBRE POLITICA GENERAL/OBCY XIEHHE BOMPOCOB OBMEH! TONHTHKH/  lad) dul! ails. : :
(2) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish): : ;  The general debate is open. [ call on Mr. Alberto Wegner de Reyna, Head of thé Peruvian  delegation and Vice-Chairman of the Executive Board.
(3. 1) .Mr. WAGNER: DE REYNA (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  . Mr. President, it is a great and certainly. a welcome honour for me to address the General  Conference of Unesco for the third consecutive time in my capacity as Chairman of the Peru-  vian delegation, | am speaking today on behalf of the Peruvian Minister of Education, General  Alfredo Arrisueño, who was expecting to attend the session and who sincerely regrets that his  heavy official duties have prevented him from being with us today.  a. 2) ‘The pleasure ‘of this ‘encounter is enhanced," Mr. Président, by’ pour dietingätshed pres-  “ence ‘In thé Chair df the General Conférence. - In 1966 ! spoke of the vision of Unekico, a pererinial  - theme} and in'1868 ‘41 the crisis of youth, ‘a perennial problem: I propose this time to spéak of  ++ the potsund transformation taking place in my country: Peru. .lido so not from an arid feeling of,  > duty ag:a civil servant,‘ nor from any touchy chauvinism, which, in; this gathering would be in bag |  taste, but because. I believe, that in the America of the South Pacific a noteworthy change is tak-  ,  |ne plaçe Which is going to produce a new and complete pattern of life, adapted to the situation er  which has brought it forth. ,Ç ; 2 / | .
(3.3) Before i say what I have in riind, however, ‘pledbé let mé éxpresé once s'again the profound  gratitude of the Peruvian Govérnment and people for the spontaneous, ‘active and lavish help  which Member States-and Unesco's officials brought to the regions of my country which suffered  : from the terrible disaster of Jast May, to which Mr, Pompei, Chairman of the Executive Board,
130   has referred. The co-ordination of the aid supplied by United Nations organizations and by Mem-  .ber States has already made it possible to prepare a complete reconstruction programme for the  area. .Under Unesco's leadership, 3, 237 schools are to be rebuilt, monuments of archaeological  and cultural value, réstored, seismic activity and glacial dangers forecast +.as far as these  terrestrial phenomense van be forecast - and a general plan compiled for the education of some  half a million students. From bitter experience Peru has learnt that Unesco is prepared with  knowledge and resourcas alike to respond fully to the demands of emergencies,
(3.4) My country is now undergoing a humane and peaceful revolution, without spectacular  leaders or dictators, aimed at establishing the dignity of the individual and the nation, free and  independent-in every way, We are not seeking to create a consumer society in which men strive  to acquire more material benefits, manufactured goods and comforts, but a new ethic, .a new  human moral code, and a new so¢ial brotherhood oñ which to build a society of free men in which  each man shall deserve respect and grant it to others, .The final aim we pursue through the rais-  ing of our living standards and the change in our social structures is to open the world of culture  and the mind to all. This peaceful revolution proves that far-reaching social and economic  transformation may be achieved without chaos or death, without hatred or rancour.
(3.5) ‘This is pot just a utopian vision, for the Peruvian revolution expresses the nation's soul  and makes it aware of its own history. As President Velasco has said, the changes in Peru  "will not lead to the establishment of a modernized capitalist society or an imported communist  society". . "We do not intend to strive for a system which will alienate man, curtail his freedom  and prevent him from being the real architect of his destiny; nor for an all-powerfui byreau-  cratic and dogmatic State holding absolute sway over a soclal system as dehumanizing as it is  alienating. ‘“ We do not wish to repeat catchwords but to face realities, and create the means of  overcoming our problems and curing our ills through measures adapted to the peculiarities ‘of  our country, the deep-seated traditions handed down by its original inhabitants and its more re-  cent links with western Christian culture.
(3.6) The revolulionary government of my country wishes to show this General Conference the  cornerstone of the profourid social, economic and human transformation taking ‘place in Peru.  It is the reform of our educational system which comes into force this year and is battling with  the dire effects of systems which did nol meet the needs of a developing countéy shut out by his-  torical circumstances from the great scientific and technological advances of our time. The chief  aim of the educational reform in Peru is to build up a just society in which all citizens will 4s-  sume thelr responsibilities and to create a genuine community ‘spirit to replace the sèlfish'indi-  vidualism which has been predominant until now. Its aini is to produce good, all-round, serious  and creative citizens, always ready to work and fight together to break down the unjust social  structures which have kept the country backward and ignorant.
(3.7) The ideas behind new educational system is to align the instruction according to the employ-  ment requirements of thé labour market and national develéprient, allowing for the regional and  linguistic differences of the country and with a scale of values whereby the prime consideration  througliout is a better quality yield, with optimum use of the avallable resources for the benefit  of the community, founded on maximum exploitation of individual abilities. With the help ‘of  Unesco experts and of {ts recommendations and studies on educational problems, our reform has  constantly provided examples of scientific progress and culture in developing countries. It is a  real human revolution, for which all resources will bé mobilized, far outside the confines of the  school, tb make education the life-long activity promoted by Unesco, embracing all age groups,  all social sectors and all institutions. We are convinced that this Peruvian contribution to inter-  national Education Year will give excellent results and may perhaps set a useful example to  other communities in a position similar to ours. Ii is only fitting that I should mehtion here the.  assistance supplied by Unesco to the Peruvian rural areas through the project it has launched on  the function of education in rural development, which has proved an invaluable addition to our  agrarian reform. ; ; Co ;  . Ls LE at ie
(3.8) The Peruvian Government is particularly interested in two projects cobtained in Unesco's  scientific programme. Its geographical position and its long-standing efforts to defend the, .  riches of the sea surrounding its coast have naturally led Peru to co-operate whole-heartedly in  activities for the study and preservation of marine life as a major source of food, Although it is  unnecegsary to retrace the gteps it has taken through the Marine Institute and in the Intergovern-  mental Oceanographic Commission, we consider it useful to insist that countries interested in  these international investigations ought to take an active part in them, so that their ownership  and their right to be fully informed about their own natural resources may, be respectod and,  guaranteed. My country, however, is interested not only in sea water and its biological impli- ’  cations, but also in fresh water, a necessity of life and sometimes a vehicle of death which is  ‘ ‘ . , 7 . ; ' tu ’
4,1  -80 unevenly distributed over thé globe, It therefore fully supports the International Hydrological  Decade in the hope that.thia project, apart from increasing the sum of scientific knowledge and  providing an exact ploture of the world's water resources, will help to solve the wide range of  economic, social and legal problems of- mankind Unked with the use of fresh water.
(3.9) Peru's delegation to Uriesco has often declared its great interest in culture. We therefore  attach capital importance to the third chapter of part II of the programme for 1971-1972, and in-  tend to implement the recommendations of the Conference on Cultural Policy recently held at  Venice. For this purpose we shall in due course ask Unesco to assist us in drawing up a cultural  policy aimed at thé overall development of the Peruvian people ‘and thé full appreciation of its  historical; artistic and ideological inheritance. In the same field of thought and action, Peru  supports the views expressed at recent international conferences concerning the preservation of  cultural property arid especially the rhéthods of preventing the illleit trade in cultural property  and of promoting cultural tourism. In this last matter it is worthy of noté that ‘a sub-regional  integration of activities is being achieved’ with the valuable technical assistance of Unesco in the  Arides area covering five Latin American countries. This is one of the first tangible examples  of international co-operation and integration in the South East Pacific group. The Peruvian dele-  gation will not fail to notify the Sub-Commission on Culture of the importance of this tourist route  in the ‘Andes, one of the principal features’ of which is undoubtedly the magnificent Cuzco-Machu  Picchu Range.
(3.10) We are fully conactous of the profound modifications in human relations due to the spec-  tacular advences made by the communication and information media. Like other developing  countries, Peru is confident that these media, television and space communications will contrib-  ute richly to the wider dissemination of culture and the more rational utilization of human and  natural resources. Needless to say, the International co-operation we hope for in such activities  * must not infringe our identity and independence.
(3.11) Before ending I should like to touch on a most important event which concerns Unesco's  place in the world. That is the last speech made by the President of the World Bank to which the  Director- -General referred last night. We cannot fail to be alarmed by Mr. McNamara's descrip-  tion of the international economic and social situation. On one side we find a group of developed  and Industrialized countries which are steadily increasing their wealth, on the other a group of  underdeveloped countries producing commodities and growing relatively poorer, day by day. The  gap is widening, and efforts to reduce it during recent years have been useless. This matter  concerns the entire international community. If disaster, which is dangerously close, strikeson  the weak side, it will not leave the strong side unharmed. Not only, therefore, should concern  for international solidarity, with its moral and legal implications, but also the elementary | instinct  of self-preservation both individual and national, prompt and even compel the strong States to  assist the weak to attain an economic and social standard sufficient to ward off irremediable  calamity. The Peruvian Government belleves that all forces must join in a determined effort to  overcome this tremendous threat; but it also considers that a successful solution cannot be  reached by material means alone and that a reaffirmation of spiritual values through education,  science and culture is urgently called for. Unesco's work is therefore closely bound up with the  task of bridging the abyss [ have mentioned; and the world of tomorrow depends on it in large  measure. Peru has faith in Unesco and considers itself privileged to work for the attainmentof  one of the oldest and noblest dreams of mankind - the fulfilment of man as a human being. This  is our historic mission and we cannot evade it. It is the mission which makes us all brothers in  Unesco.  El PRESIDENTE:  Gracias, Excmo, Sehor Embajador de Reyna,
(4.1) The PRESIDENT (Tranelation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr. de Reyna.
(4.2) 1 call upon Mr. Radjid Fahnema, Minister of Science and Higher Education of Iran and  head of the delegation of Iran.  M, RAHNEMA (Iran), -  Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi tout d'abord de vous apporter les sincères féli-  citations de la délégation irant« mne et de vous féliciter moi-même à l'occasion de votre
132   élection 'unanime à la présidence de la Conférence générale, Je suis certain que, poursui-  vant l'oeuvre de notre excellent ‘président sortant, M, Eteki-Mboumoua, vous saurez; grâce  aux qualités exceptionnelles dont vous avez toujours fait preuve dans votre brillante car- .  rière, diriger les débats de cette seizième session de la Conférence générale avec toute  la maftrise et l'intelligence’ qui vous caractérisent, Mes félicitations amicales vont aussi  à MM, Sarrûf, Hela, Etemadi, Okinda, Baugniet et Lipatti, qui seront pour vous d'excel-  lents collaborateurs au Bureau de la Conférence,
5,2 Permettez-moi aussi de vous dire tout de suite que je'me suis presqué désespérément éver-  tué à faire un travail de rédacteur en essayant de condenser mon intervention dans les li-  mites recommandées par le Conseil exécutif ; mais je ne suis pas sûr d'y être parvenu et  je fais appel à votre ‘générosité latino-américaine pour que vous ne me teniez'pas rigueur  si je dépasse un peu les vingt minutes fatidiques que vous nous avez accordées,
5,3 L'intérêt que revétent les réunions bisannuelles de la Conférence générale 8 'aceroft  cette fois du fait que la seizième session se tient presque au terme de l'Année internatio-  nale de l'éducation, qui a été pour chacun de nous une année particulièrement riche #n ac-  tivités éducatives, une année de réflexion sur la Première Décennie des Nations Uniés pour  le développement et de préparation de la Décennie à venir, une année enfin qui, à plusieurs  égards, peut constituer un tournant dans l'évolution de la pensée mondiale en ce qui con-  cerne les problèmes de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture,
5,4 Parmi les leçons à retenir de cette Première Décennie, j'en mentionnerai trois qui  me paraissent des plus importantes,
5,5 La première, qui est assez triste mais qu'il est plus que jamais utile et nécessaire  de rappeler pour les besoins de notre action future, c’est que les grands appels romantiques  à l'idéalisme et à la solidarité internationale n'ont pas été suffisants à eux seuls pour amener  les nantis à prendre conscience du phénomène du sous-développement mondial et à mettre  au point de nouvelles formes de coopération dans l'intérêt d'une croissance globale équili-  brée, À titre d'exemple, la contribution des pays développés aux objectifs de la Première  Décennie, qui avait été fixée à 1 % de leur produit national brut, et qui devait soi-disant  être déterminante pour réduire le retard économique des pays'en voie de développement,  a été en fuit presque systématiquement réduite, au point de tomber à moins de 0,70 % en
1968, Pareillement, bien d'autres espoirs nés au lendemain de la Deuxième Guerre mon-  diale se sont tour à tour brisés contre les intérêts en cause et les structures politico- éco-  nomiques existantes, de sorte que les peuples en voié de développement ont dû faire face  tout seuls à leurs responsabilités nationales dans ce domaine, Ce désenchantement a ce-  pendant été très salutaire parce qu'il a montré à ces peuples - une fois pour toutes; je  l'espère - qu'il serait désormais inutile, sinon dangereux, de compter sur l'aide étran-  gère pour résoudre leurs problèmes essentiels, Comme l'a si justement rappelé hier le  Directeur général, les moyens dont disposent les pays en voie de développement sont in-  suffisants mais, quels qu'ils soient, seule une croissance endogène fondée essentiellement  sur la pleine utilisation de leurs propres ressources économiques et humaines - qui sont  souvent encore inutilisées à 80 % - pourra leur permettre d'atteindre cet objectif, Il leur  faudra donc, plus que jamais, ‘appliquer systématiquement une politique visant à créer les  conditions objectives d'un développement national intégré, tant sur le plan socio- économique  que sur le plan éducatif et culturel,
5,6 Une deuxième leçon à rappeler, bien qu'elle soit déjà aricienne, c'est que le dévelop-  pement, à l'image de l'homme même qui en est'la fin et le moyen, est un processus inté-  gral et indissociable englobant la tôtalité du devenir humain. À ce titre, s'il est vrai que  l'expansion économique est un préalable absolu à tous les autres aspects du développement,  ce dernier n'aura de sens ni de contenu que s'il réalise en même temps le plein épanouis-  sement d'un homme complet et nouveau et que s'il arrive, grâce à la partivipation de plus  en plus consciente de tous à l'effort commun, à libérer l'énergie latente de toute la  société, -
133   , 5.7 Dans le domaine de l'éducation,.que-l'on considère-de plug en plus aujourd'hui comme  une activité humaine hautement ¢omplexe nécessaire dans l'intérêt de l'avenir même ‘des  peuples, la Décennie nous a: appris qu'il ne s'agissait plus de'faire simplement davantage,  ni même de faire mieux, mais qu'il fallait se lancer enfin danu des voiés toutes nouvelles  et radicalement différentes du-passé pour atteindre un quadruple objeétif : expansion quan-  titative rapide, :amélioration qualitative, démocratisation; accès égal et sans discrimina -  tion de tous à l'éducation, L'expansion de l'éducation; telle qu'elle a eu lieu-dans les der-'  nières décennies, n'a eu pour effet que de pousser les peuples en voie de développement à  consacrer une part de plus en plus importante de leurs ressources nécessairement Hmi-  tées - plus de 15 % en moyenne.de l ur budget, souvent même davantage - à 1'éducation,  sans avoir pour autant résolu les yrais problèmes à long:terme de leur développement hu-  main et scientifique. Pour empêcher que l'on n'aille de crise en. catastrophe, il faut,  comme l'affirment. si justement les auteurs du document SHC/MD/9 ("Consultation sur la  contribution de l'Unesco à la Première et à la Deuxième Décennie des Nations Unies pour  le développement"), il faut dans chaque pays "rien moins qu'une révolution de l'éducation .…..  une révolution de structure, de contenu, des méthodes et des techniques, et surtout une  révolution,de comportement et de. gestion de l'éducation ... C'est à cette condition que -  l'éducation peut combler le fossé qui existe entre:elle et les conséquences des révolutions  qui ont bouleversé l'industrie et l'agriculture, les communications et les: © transports et les  armes de destruction’,
5.8 Entreprendre une rénovation de l'éducation dont le but serait la refonte complète des  systèmes d'enseignement et leur adaptation réaliste aux besoins du développement ‘et: aux  ressources disponibles, telle paraît être la tâche essentielle des peuples au seuil de la  nouvelle décennie, Mais, pour que cette tâche pu'ase être menée à bien dans les meilleures  conditions, il importe de définir et d'adopter une stratégie, ou si l'on veut deux stratégies,  nécessairement adaptées aux objectifs d'une révolution de l'éducation. Vous me permettrez  à ce propos de me référer à celle qui fut déclenchée il y a deux ans dans mon pays par  S.M,1I, le Shahinshah, Une telle > stratégie devrait, me semble-t-il, tenir compte des con-  sidérations suivantes :
5.9 (a) La planification du développement intégré devra porter tant sur les fins et les .  moyens que sur les formes et le contenu de 1'éducati~n, et s'atiaquer à une rénovation fon-  damentale des structures éducatives et culturelles, Elle devra en 'mé&me temps’ aborder  les modalités d'application progressive et systématique des techniques modernes de ges-  tion à l'éducation : il serait en effet inconcevable que les contradictions de plus en plus  grandes des systèmes éducatifs actuels puissent:être résolues sans une réorganisation de  toutes les structures relatives à l'enseignement, Cette réorganisation devrait utiliser, le.  cas échéant, les méthodes d'organisation connues sous le nom de "recherche opérationnelle"  ou "analyse des systèmes" ; si ces méthodes étaient appliquées, il faudrait tenir compte  non seulement des aspects techniques et technologiques de là gestion, mais aussi, et sur-  tout, faire de la participation active et motivée des personnes les plus directement inté--  ressées une dimension nouvelle et-intégrale de'cette gestion. La recherche opérationnelle  appliquée au système éducatif permettra notamment de réaliser l'approche globale néces-  saire à l'application systématique de toutes les ressources de la connaissance scientifique  et technologique au processus d'acquisition et d'utilisation du savoir,
5, 10 (b) Bien que ia formule "Apprendre à apprendre’ ait déjà perdu de son “originalité |  à force d'être répétée en toute occasion, il n'en demeure pas moins qu'elle définit bien le  rôle essentiel de l'éducation dans les années à venir, tant à l'égard de la collectivité que  de l'individu, L'éducation ne peut plus être limitée à un système d'enseignement à direc-  tion unique, ne visant qu'à transmettre certaines connaissances livresques à un: groupe  nécessairement restreint d'individus pendant une tranche définie d'années de leur vie, En’  fait, elle ne pourra scivir ses objectifs que si elle englobe toutes les activités de l'homme  dans sa lutte pour le plein épanouissement de l'humanité qu'il porte en lui et de cette plus  grande humanité dont il constitué une partie intégrante et organique, ‘Elie sera donc,  comme dit si bien le rapport 16 C/13, de plus en plus “un processus permanent qui doit  toucher tous les groupes d'âges et tous les secteurs socio-économiques ,,, aussi bien
134   l'ehseignement scolaire que l'éducation extrascolaire;rla jeunesse que les adultes, et les  travailleurs et employeurs des villes et dés‘campagnes”, En d'autres termes, jena vois  plus l'éducation comme un trone d'arbre rectiligne'à deux ou trois rameaux porteurs de .  quelques feuilles ou fruits en nombre limité; mais de plus en plus comme un immense .  arbre dont les branches variées et multiformes ae placeraient À tous les riveaux du.tronc  et se pareraient de feuilles et de fruits aux formes toujours différentes et de plus en plus  adaptés aux nécessités des saisons à venir, ; :  - 5 f i . $ + x - ar; . .
56,11 Mais, Monsieur le Président, ‘si l'éducation permanente ainsi.congue représente dé-  sormais la clé du plein épanouissement des hommes de demain et d'un système éducatif  ouvert répondant aux besoins d'une société en transformation rapide, il:est certain qu'elle  se trouve encore à l'état conceptuel, .Un chemin difficile, d'aspect parfois décourageant et  semé de bien des obstacles sérieux, sépare encore cet idéhl, visantiau développement‘ mul-  tidimensionnel des êtres.dans leur originalité et-leur individualité, de l'école:unique congue  comme une parenthèse s'ouvrant da s la vie d'écoliera anonymes à un âge donné pour ise  refermer:à l'époque:de'lairemise de;diplômes, Il est clair cependant que, guels que soient  les obstacles à surmonter, l'éducation permanente constitue en ce qui nous concerne le défi  de loin le plus important de là-Deuxième Décennie, et peut-être des. nouvelles décenhies à  venir, Il convient que tout:suit mis ep oeuvre pour qu'on puisse, aussi vite que pos:ible,  passer du concept A.la réalisation concrète, à l'exploration:méthodique des rossibilités  qu'il permet d'offrir et à'son adaptation aux situations snécifiques propres : on seulement  à chacune de nos sociétés mais : 18si à chaque groupe et à chaque cas particulier, *
5,12 : À ce titré, un ouvrage d'un grand intérêt vient heureusement, presque à l'ouverture  de’ cette Conférence générale, d'enrichir l'Année internationale de l'éducation, et il coh-  vient d'en féliciter à-laifois l'auteur, M. Paul Lengrand; et l'Unesco, Cet ouvrage, inti-  tulé Introduction à l'éducation permanente, exprime si bien les vues de ma délégation à ce  sujet que je ne puis qu'en faire mien tout le contenu, en recommander la lecture et ne pas  abuser du temps de la Conférence générale en lui soumettant les observations supplémen-.  taires que j'avais pensé présenter À son sujet. LI . :
5.13 Je ne peux cependant m'empêcher, à cette occasion, de parler ici d'une expérience  particulière qui, à mainia égards, me semble digne d'intérêt pour la Conférence générale.  Je veux parler de deux projets d'alphabétisation fonctionnelle que mon pays a entrepris avec  l'aide de l'Unesco, dans le:cadre de la prépatation à la Campagne mondiale d'alphabétisa-  tion dont la conception remonte au Congrès historique de Téhéran de septembre 1965, On  le sait, ces deux projets ont été lancés, il y a-plus de trois ans, dans les régions d'Ispahan  et de Dezfoul, dans le but d'alphabétiser les travailleurs de ces régions dans le cadre d'une  action de promotion technique et culturelle capable d'intégrer, dans un processus synchro-  nisé, la formation professionnelle, l'acculturation scientifique, l'initiation mathématique,  la formation civique et socio-économique et l'apprentissage de la lecture ét de l'écriture,  Ils avaient en outre pour objet de favoriser l'accroissement de la productivité des travail-  leurs, de faciliter leur intégration dans une socifté en voie de modernisation rapide et d'ac-  célérer le développement; Sans vouloir :préjuger les conclusions que présentera le groupe  permanent d'experts de l'Unesco pour l'évaluntion des projets d'alphabétisation qui s'est  rendu sur place le $, septembre dernier, l'intérêt: de éètte expérience me semble déjà dé-  passer de loin les objectifs nécessairement limités des projets dans le domuine de l'alpha-  bétisation, ‘En fait, et c'est'la-raison p ur laquelle j'en parle aujourd'hui, ils constituent à  mon sens. une ouverture assez spectaculaire sur les préemidres possibilités d'ap plication  des nouvelles méthodes-intégrées d'éducation:et de.formation dans le cadre du l'éducation  permanente et de la rénovation des systèmes traditionnels d'enseignement; tant en cé qui -  concerne les adultes que les autres, Une expérience répartie sur deux cycles de trente-  cinq semaines a réussi not: seulement à apprendre à des adultes analphabètes à lirè, à  écrire et à calculer, mais. aussi, et c'est là À mon sens le point le plus important, à les  insérer dans la réalité effective d'un devenir collectif et à 128 amener à une sorte d'émer-  sion critique.et-intelligente du monde dans lequel.ils se trouvaient passivement immergés,  Deux fois trente-cing semaines .ont suffi à libérer ces individus de leur état dé masse  amorphe et à les transformer en êtres non seulement "datés ét situés"; selon l'expression
135   s  de Gabriel Marcel, mais aussien homni2s conscients pour la premidre fois de leur utilité  et, si j'ose dire,. piqués du bonheut'de vivre et de savoir, de travailler et de servir; Chose  plus extraordinaire encore;. selon une information qui m'a été rapportée il y a un mois à  peine; 80.d'entre ces nouveaux alphabètes se sont présentés aux examens du cycle régulier  des six années d'études primaires classiques, et 50 ont passé avec: succes ces examens,
5, 14 ‘sans doute serait- M peu scientifique de tirer des conclusions de caractère sensaticn-  nel d'une micro-expérience aux limites aussi réduites, Mais, comme je l'ai signalé à Té-  héran il y a à peine six semaines, si expérimental que soit:le caractère de ce projet pilote,  ne peut-on imaginer la'bombe à retaidement en miniature que: ces résultats pourraient re-  présenter. pour l'ensemble des systdmés traditionnéls d'éduéation dans les pays du Tiers  Monde si l'on arrivait.un jour à les généraliser sur de plus grands ensembles ?' Le plus  ‘faible espoir d'urié tellé possibilité devrait, & mon sens; nous faire réfléchir; et-nous in-  .citer à nous mettré immédiaiemeiit du travail afin non seulement de soumettre tous-les as-  pects dudit:projet pilote à une analyse scientifique poussée mais aussi, én même temps, de  rechercher activement les muyens:grâce auxquels on parviendrait éventuellement à réali-  ‘sér des expér! ences de ce genre sous des formes plus variées et sur de plus vastes échelles,  Qui d'entre nous peut se libérèr:de la hantise des coûté prohibitifs de l'expansion scolaire  et des problèmes de la formation des cadres alors qu'au- même. moment des millions  d'hommes-du Tiers Monde'tèrminent léurs études primaires et'secondaires,- voire univer-  sitaires, sans trouver un -emploi et sans pouvoir s'intégrer dans leurs socités ou partici-  per au développement de leur pays’ ? De telles perspectives devraient, plus que jamais,  nous engager à faire porter l'essentiel de nos travaux de recherche et d'expérimentation  sur des projets d'innovation et de. rénovation, tant dans le domaine de l'éducation des  adultes que des jeunes et des enfants, Pour ne parler que de l'éxemple que j'ai cité, s'il  s'avère que; grâce à la rénovation des techniques et du contenu.de l'enseignement ainsi  que. des formes de gestion et d'organisation, on arriverait effectivement à réaliser en deux  ou trois'ans'et sur une grande échelle ce qu'on faisait mal, autrefois, en cinq ou aix ans,  ne-serait-il pas déjà possibié d'envisager de nouveaux ‘systèmes où l'enseignement et le:  travail, l'école ot la vie, pourraient alterner et se combizèr au cours même des années de  croissance des enfants et des jeunes, et s'ouvrir par paliers sur des vocations répondant  aux exigences variées d'une croissance harmonisée des différents secteurs du développe-  ment national ? Ne pourrait-on dès lors penser ‘à une approche toute nouvelle et élaborer  des politiques appropriées qui, tout en combinant les efiets mutuels'de l'éducation et du  travail au niveau dés masses rurales et urbaines, mettraient fin par là-même au dualisme  du sous-développement et à l'uccentuation des contradictions qui existent entre la crois-  sance presque maligne.des secteurs dits modernes et la + stagnation de la vie traditionnelle  dans l'Immensité du secteur rural ?
5,15 Monsieur le Président, pour que de tels efforts puissent être réalisés et soient as-  surés de toutes'les chances de succès; toute l'évolution de l'éducation doit être basée sur  la participation consciente et organisée de toutes les couches de-la population - en particu-  lier la population rurale et la jeunesse -:à la mise en valeur du capital intellectuel national.  Une telle participation est nécessaire pour permettre une très grande variété d'apports hu-  mains, ainsi que les possibilités non traditionnelles d'enseignement qui sont indispensables  aux objectifs d'une rénovation de l'éducation, Elle ne sera que partielle, inefficace, tant  que des organisations nationales et appropriées n'zuront pas su intégrer les activités de  l'ensemble de la population dans le procéssus du développement, ‘L'armée, l'industrie,  l'agriculture, l'administration de chaque pays auront aussi certainement !eur rôle à jouer  dans ce processus, saris oublier les mouvements de volontaires, qui ¢ sont a méme de dé-  clencher d'immenses éncrgios latentes. .
5, 16 A ce titre, qu'il me ‘sot permis de saluer la résolution adoptée, sur l'initiative de  l'Iran, par le.Conseil économique et.social dé l'Organisation des Nations Unies lors de sa  dernière session, et qui, je l'espère, sera bientôt approuvée par l'Assemblée générale  des Nations Unies, Si le Corps international de volontaires regoit une formation impré-  gnée de l'esprit que 5,M.I, le Shahinshah Atyamehr a défini dans le discours qu'il a pro-  noncé à l'Université Harvard, et s'il arrivé effectivement à recueillir l'adhésion de tous
5  les jeunes et à incarner leur aspiration railitante à de nouvellei formes de coopération; {1°  pourra constituer un Instrument utile ‘au service du ‘développement Antélléctuel, sciénti  fique et, ‘bien entendu, économique des peuples.
5, 17 Monsieur le Président; Je voudrais aussi mentionner un point qui; ‘je crois, est Assez  important puisqu'il en a été longuement question dans l'excellent discours prononcé hier  par le Directeur général, Il s'agit-dé la rénovation et de là técganisation du travail dè:«  l'Unesco, A mon sens, si l'an veut que la nouvelle Décennie représente une percée dans le  sens de la réfiovation et de la'démiooratisation de l'enseignement ét de la science; (itr effort  parallèle doit être fait pour que HUriesco elle-même puisse, tant sup le plan de son’ action  d'ensemble que sur celui du Secretariat, . ‘8 ‘adapter avec toute la souplesseinécesgaire aux  nouvelles conditions; Il serait’ -peut- -être temps dé reviser les méthodes et les procédures  d'élaboration et d'exéaution du programme pour les adapter aux impératifs du changement,  J'ai-l'impression que les pratiques aciuelles tendent-souvént à alourdir'inutilement le tral  vail du Consiil et de la Conférence généralé, au détriment du temps qu'il conviendrait de  consacrer à une discussion approfondie des grandes idées directrices’ de notre époque,‘ Il  est certain aussi que la réorganisation ou la: rénovation dont’ l'Unesto doit faire l'objet ne :  pourra se limiter à quelques modifications d'ordre. administratif ou technique dans l'orga-  nigramme ou dans les modalités de travail des membres du personnel au Sidge où'à 'l'exté-  rieur, Pour: qu'elle soit’ réelle, il faudra s'adapter aux changements tout'en restant fidèle  à l'esprit de l'Acte constitutif, notamment en s'assurant la contribution effective et'la’par-  ticipation de plus en plus active et démocratitué des représentants de toutes ‘les - grandes  cultures mondiales, nén seulement aux travaux du Conseil’ exécutif et-d'autres érganes de  la Conférence générale mais aussi,‘ et surtout, À ceux du Secrétariat à ges différents éche-  lons, Or je suis au regrét de constater que, six ans après l'intervention que j'ai prononcée  ici-même au nom de mon pays, la représentation équitable des diverses cultures et ré-'  gions du monde n'est toujours pas assurée dans tous lés services ou À tous les niveaux d'ac-  tion de l'Organisation, Si l'Unesco veut continuer À incarner la conscience intellectuelle du  mondé, ‘elle doit, plus encore que toute autre instance internationale, s'adapter aux tondi-  tions changeantes de notre temps,. En particulier; si importante que soit la préparation à  l'avance du Projet de programme et du Plan à long terme, elle devra désormais 8:re con-  que de façon à ne pas imposer une rigidité inutile au Secrétariat, et à lui dohner là liberté  d'action qui lui a souvent manqué‘ dans le passé et dont il a besoin pour prendre les initia-  tives nécessaires. La souplesse qui serait ainsi accordée au Secrétariat permeitrait d'au-  tant mieux de servir les objectifs du programme que des changements seraient opérés de  l'intérieur, dans un esprit de liberté ét de démocratie qui, ‘commé je me suis permis de  le suggérer à la dernière session de la Conférence générale, devrait allier la contestation  réfléchie et raisonnée au sens de la maturité et de la responsabilité tant individuelles que  collectives, A cet égard, ma délégation se félicite de l'initiative prise. par le Directeur  général de réserver une part de l'activité du Secrétariat à l'intensification des efforts né-  cessaires pour améliorer l'organisation du travail et d'assurer,- au sein du Secrétariat,  une plus grande mobilité intellectuelle qui permetté aux uns et aux autres d'apporter jour  contribution maximum au travail Collectif, La réorganisation des activités de 1'Uresco doit  également, comme l'a encore si bien indiqué le Directeur général hier, en faire tin ‘nstru-  ment dont le rayonnement, s'exerçant non seulement directement et par elle- -même mais  surtout à travers les organisations nationales den ‘pays membres, lui permettrait dé -  réaliser’ les. objectifs communs grâco à l'intérêt accru que lui porteraient les Etats et  à la coopération plus effective des organisations plus essentiellement intéressées ‘telles’  que les commissions nationales pour l‘Unesco et les organisations run gouvernementales,  L'Organisation pourrait enfin jouer un rôle plus actif dans la programmation de l'aide in="  ternationale en général. Je tiens à signaler tout l'intérêt que mon pays attache à la partie  de l'Esquisse à long terme du Direa*sur général qui corcerne dette programmation, ét aux  points qu'avec tant d'élégance il a tenu à souligner hier, A titre d'exemple, je suis heureux  dé pouvoir annoncer que mon gouvernement a déjà exprimé son'désir de collaborer avec  les experts pour tracer en commun urie première esquisse des: grandes lignes du cin- .  quième;plan de développement de l'Iran, notammenten ce qui donterne ja coopération :in-  ternationale dans:les domaines de l'éducation, de la science et de.la culture"; c'est dans-  le même. esprit qu'il s'est efforcé, avec un succès encourageant, “d'ideritifier et de coor- -
5  donner avec l'aide du PNUD les besoins nationaux et les sources probables d'assistance  bilatérale ou multilatérale, en matière notamment de planification familiale. Je souhaite -  donc très sincèrement que les suggestions du Directeur général en vue d'une programma-  tion plus rationnelle de l'assistance internationale soient favorablement accueillies, tant  par les pays récipiendaires que par les dispensateurs des aides bilatérales,  A ‘ > . . 1 .
5,18 J'espère, Monsieur le Président, que vous voudrez bien rn':xcuser d'avoir dépassé.  le temps que vous m'avez si courtoisement imparti, Je ne puis cependant quittér cette tri-  bune sans rappeler le rôle crucial que l'Unesco est a.peléè à jouer dans l'édification des  bases intellectuelles de la paix, de la tolérance et de la:compréhension entre les peuples,  et sans donner le soutien de ma délégation à ce que le Directeur général nous en a dit hier,  Si important. que soient les causes matérielles et les raisons objectives des conflits d'in-  térêts économiques et politiques qui-provoquent des guerres fratricides, notre Organisa-  tion ne saurait se dérober devant la responsabilité qui lui revient d'extirper des esprits  les germes de la violence et de l'agressivité, Nous continuons d'espérer que les initiatives  réitérées de l'Iran, tant ici qu'à l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies et au Conseil éco-  nomique-et sonial,:tendant.à lier le sort de l'éducation -. plus particulièrement sous sa  forme d'alphabétisation - à celui du désarmement, recevront au cours de la prochaine Dé-  cennie un écho plus favorable que celui qui leur fut hélas réservé par le passé, La guerre,  dit le apport précité des huit experts, est le pire concurrent de l'éducation et l'ennemi da  ses:plus-belles réalisations. Jusqu'au moment où, avec l'aide de l'éducation, les tueries,  les destructions et le trafic d'armes auront été relégués une fois pour toutes dans les pages  les plus sombres de l'histoire; .le développement dans son sens le plus large et les tenta-  tives de l'humanité pour réaliser pleinement l'ensemble de ses possibilités seront grave--  ment compromis, Nous voudrions croire qu'il reste à l'Unesco des ressources intellec-  tuelles et inventives encore inexploitées qui lui permettront de se lancer encore plus résu-  lument à l'avenir dans la lutte pour la paix et dans l'édification des infrastructures néces-  saires à cette fin, et nous souhaitons sincèrement qu'ellv les exploite toujours davantage,  en coopération avec tous les Etats membres, et qu'elle en fasse non seulement un pilier de  sa politique future mais aussi la raison même de son existence,
(6.1) The PRESIDENT (‘Translation from the Spanish):  { wish to thank Mr. Rahnema, Minister of Science of Iran, for endeavouring to express his  views as briefly as possible.
(6.2) I call upon H.E. Mi. Gémez Solano, Minister of Education of Costa Rica, and head of the  delegation.
(7.1) Mr. GAMEZ SOLANO (Costa Rica) (Translation from the Spanish):  On behalf of the Government and delegation of Costa Rica, and on my own behalf, I have the  honour to extend my respectful greetings ti» you, Mr. President, and to this distinguished assembly.  A |
(7.2) On the twenty-fifth anniversary of the foundation of the United Nations, it is a pleasure to  come to this highest instance of universal culture and to reaffirm our faith in it and our support  for the worthy cause of the education of mankind. Unesco has dedicated itaelf to the establish-  ment of universal peace, through cultivation of the minds of men and we wish to take this opportunity of  renewing our support for the Organization's aim as set out in its Constitution. Unesco's founders  showed great wisdom in including the statement that "since wars begin in the minds of men, it is  in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed" in the Constitution.
(7.3) This wise policy must be maintained so as to continue to provide a definition of the aims  and objectives to be reached, both for the younger and the adult generations. In strengthening  the line of action marked out by Unesco, we must heed and translate into clear standards for  everyday life the appeal by His Holiness Pope Paul VI th his wonderful encyclical '"Populorum  Progreasio”. With consummate wisdom, His Holiness states that today peace is known by a new  name - deraidpment. Development is imperative for all men and all nations. Let us have no  more illusions oti this score: only the man who succeeds in developing his life in a harmonious  and positive way to the greatest possible degree, can live in peace, for it is thus that he can  acquit himself heroically in the great struggle of self-discovery, fulfil himself and endow his  life with a sense of supreme purpose.
(7.4) Man must live in a world of justice, for only when énjoying justice can he discover the  meaning of peace. Those who get left behind soon find themselves outcasts from society, thus  becoming immediately liable to a harmful gense of frustration. A man living in peace takes  pleasure in developing his personality, and it must not be forgotten that education 1a ‘a process  of development of the personality through culture. According to the thinking of His Holiness,  the peace created by justice must be something dynamic, active, constantly developing and im-  proving and since the motive force of peace is education, (these qualities must be inherent In all  educational systems. 10°
(7.5) Peace and development are two constantly equidistant points, each complementary to the  other, on the same axis. The concept of development implies dynamic action, evolution, growth,  progress. And if education is to keep pace with man so as to shape him, it must assimilate these  same characteristics. Thus today we are compelled to regard education as a process of life-long  development.
(7.6) Unesco has proclaimed 1970 International Education Year. Costa Rica endorses this  initiative and offers as its contribution the integral plan for the reform of its educational system,  a task which has been in progress since 1948, We welcome the efforts made by all countries to  seek and find the best methods of education.
(7.7) Before this session of the Geacral Conference, the Spanish-speaking countries met in Spain  to attend the Third Extraordinary Assembly of the lbero- American Bureau of Education and the  Ibero- American Congress of Minigters of Education. No words can express our gratitude to the  Spanish people and Government who lavished their traditional hospitaljty upon us and did every-  thing in their ‘power to ensure the success of the meetings. Under the able chairmanship of the  Spanish Minister of Education, Mr. José Luis Villar Palasf, seated around a ‘single table, all the  countries of Latin America, Portugal and the Philippinés Had ah excellent opportunity for discus-  sion and the exchange of opinions. \Ve were all committéd tô one single great enterprise - a  fundamental revision of the educational system in response to the appeal made by Paul VI when  he called for the development of man, of the whole man, of all men, of the whole of mankind. .  This is our interpretation of Unesco's appeal for peace as embodied in the "democratization of  access to education”. The extraordinary meeting and the Conference of [bero-American Ministers  of Education held their closing sessions in Barcelona, where Costa Rica signed the convention ad-  mitting it to membership of the Bureau. My country wishes this act to be taken as a token of its '  attachment and acknowledgement to thé mother country, the Iberb-American Office of Education  and {ts sister countries belonging to the Office, and at the same time as a contribution to Interna-  tional Education Year. Costa Rica wishes to avail itself of this opportunity to express ite sincere  and lasting gratitude to Spain, its Government, its Minister of Education and the officials of the  Office for the great service which they rendered to the Spanish-speaking world, and hence to all  countries of the world, in arranging this meeting.
(7.8) If the development of man is a guarantee of place, we must seek all possible means of en-  suring that it ts brought about both horizontally - through a real democratization of access to  education, and vertically - through the fullest possible development, leading to a positive, dynamic  and appropriate integration of the younger generations in the established social structure. )
(7.9) That is Costa Rica's objective in working steadily for the implementation of the overall  plan for the reform of its educational system. Working oh a suitable technical basis, we propose  to carry out a diagnosis of prevailing conditions covering all quantitative and qualitative ques-  tions and those concerning educational administration, legislation and finance. This is clearly  an arduous undertaking, but we are committed to the task and we have come here convinced that  we shall find among our more developed brother nations the understanding and good will to assist  us in achieving a suczessful outcome in our task.
(7.10) We shall deposit with the appropriate authorities copies of the basic documents of our  work plan in which we shall follow the technical standards recommended in such cases.
(7.11) On behalf of my government, I wish to express our most heartfelt gratitude to all fraternal  countries for the most valuable assistance they have given to the developrnent of the Costa Rican  people.
(7.12) Costa Rica has traditionally relied for the maintenance of its democratic system on thé  development of culiure, and so great is its faith in a cultured citizenry that the Army is prohibi-  ted by the constitution and it bases the defence of its sovereignty on the quality of the citizens its  educational system has produced. Our legislators' faith in the man of culture has not been be-
141   trayed for our national sovereignty, entrusted to the people, has been preserved in all its dig-  nity and purity throughout the course of history.
(7. 13) Mr. President, my delegation takes pleasure in: paying tribute to those high qualities  which led to:your election to the presidency of this great cultural assembly. It gave us great  pleasure to join in the vote, since your election reminded us of your country and of the strong  links = historical; linguistic, religious and cultural - which unite it with their own, We  have every confidence that you will discharge your duties with great success and.we are happy to  assure you that we shall make every effort to assist you therein. Thank you, Mr. President.
(8.1) The PRESIDENT (Transldtion from the Spanish): +  ; I thank Mr. G£mez Solano, head of the delegation of Costa Rica.
(8.2) I! call on Mr. John Richardson, head of the delegation of the United States of America.
9.1 Mr: RICHARDSON (United States of America): -  Mr. President, may ] 1 say first what a very Seat privilege it is for ine to serve Under  your direction and 'to ‘participate ; in this assembly for the first time with 50 many distinguished  men and women from the whole world. Twenty-five years ago next month, out of the suf-  fering and chaos of a "great and terrible war", a ‘magnificent dream was born. An inspired  assembly in London established the framework of a new world institution founded on the  unique proposition that "Since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that  the defences 6f peace must be constructed’. That assembly drew up a Constitution reflect-  ing the conviction that "a péacé based exclusively upon the political 4nd economic arrange-  ments of govérnments would hot be a peace which could secure the unanimous, lasting and  sincere support of the peoples’ of the world, and that the peace must therefore be founded,  if it is not to fail, upon the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind". It was then made  crystal-clear in both preamble and operative clauses of that Constitution that the fundamen-  tal purpose of the new institution was to advance "through the educational and scientific and  cultural relations of the peoples of the world" the United Nations objectives of "international  peace and of the common welfare of mankind",
9.2 In the intervening quarter century, in spite of a tragic continuation of earlier patterns  of iriternational and civil strife breaking out all too often into bloody ‘conflict, we have wit-  nessed dramatic progress toward the achievement of certain of the goals stated in our  Constitution. ‘Opportunities for education for all have indeed greatly increased in allofour  countries. There has been a quantum jump in the exchange of ideas and knowledge within  and between the great majority of the nations of the world. Collaboration in education,  science and culture has been multiplied and intensified, most evidently and broadly per-  haps through direct co-operation among institutions of learning, among individual scholars  and scientigts and among organizations of all kinds, public and private. In the field of hu-  man rights, though actual progress has been spotty, aspirations have in inany areas been  embodied in binding legal commitménts. Furtherinore, awareness of the distance we have  still to travel, awareness of injustice, of discrimination, of oppression and the determina-  tion to combat them are surely more widespread than ever before.
9.3 In all these and in other areas, Unesco has made and is making an indispensable con-  tribution, a contribution of leadership in innovation, in establishing patterns of éo-operation  and ¢ollaboration with inéalculablè influence onthe thinking and behaviour of individuals,  institutions and governments throughout the world. In the words again of our Constitution,  "ignorance of each other's ways of lives" has been increasingly surmounted with the help  of our Organization and through the remarkable multiplication of the channels and instru-  mentalities of mass communication and education throughout the world. But there are al-  ways new challenges: Paris is no longer threatened with burning, but Venice is sinking,
142   $  while its priceless treasurns are ravaged by the contaminants of industrial pollution; the  great temples of the Nile lave been secured from the rising waters of man's technical pro-  gress, but those of Borobudur and Angkor Wat gre menaced by the threats of time, nature.  and human encroachment; reconstruction of the shattered cities; the economies and life  patterns in Europe and Japan has been brilliantly achieved but vast numbers of our peoples  throughout the world remain in ignorance and misery, and millions of others are frustrated  and angry with the institutions which seem to promise so much and to deliver so little; . the  old problems of hunger, poverty, disease, war and ignorance are still with us, but they  are felt in a new context of drastic and ever-accelerating change.  A - : + , i : ; rt . Toa
9.4 The probleme of development, more intensely felt than ever hefore because of the -  rising expectations of our time,. are surely by no means unique to the Third World. All  nations are undergoing severe dislocations - psychological, physical, moral - as a result  of rapid scientific and technical development and the explosion of knowledge and communi-  cations. Though .the problems may differ in nature, they are common to us all Just. as  nations and peoples of the Third World are impatient with the world structures - political,  economic and social ~ that pre-dated their own independence, so the young people in my own  country, and in many others, are often acutely dissatisfied with organisms of our govern-  ment and of our society, . This is the "Establishment'', which they often view as wholly un-  responsive or at least overly slow to react to their needs, real and imagined, . They envi-  sion a better world, one in which they can participate more fully; they are impatient,  frustrated and frequently angry when existinginstitutions do riot provide prompt and adequate  satisfaction for the needs they feel. - Je .  Ca « FEE I SO | , A Peu
9.5 .We in the United States are like many others. confronted with severe crises in eduça7  tion. -We are also in a situation where subètantial segments of our population consider that  the opportunities-offéred ther are insufficient to their needs and.to the attainment of true  justice and equality in the community at large. ‘There is great unrest among our swelling  urban populations, where masses of our less-privileged people for the first time are ef-.  fectively articulatirig their demands for a better life and for more equitable treatment at the  hands of their more fortunate fellow-citizens. The problems of inoreasing use of narcotics,  barbiturates and other mind-affecting drugs, especially among our young people, is another  unhappy social by-product of this revolutionary age, increasingly apparent in rising addiction  in other countries as well. oo .
9.6 ‘These problems and others, in varying degrees and forms are'common to us all, or  potentially affecting us all, developed and developing, rich and poor. More and more  problems are common problems. More and more answers must therefore he found through  common efforts, ‘through collaboration, through the strategy the founders of Unesco recog-  nized as the basic path to peace. In varying ways also, each of us can draw profit in meet-  ing these problems, problems of development, from our participation in Unesco, whether  in the form of direct assistance, technical co-operation, sharing.in each others' cultural  contributions, or by participating in and benefiting from the wealth of experience provided  through the Unesco mechanisms. :
9.7 As the group of consultants on the Second Development Decade noted in their excellent  report to the Director-Ceneral last spring (document SHC/MD 9) "All nations are develop-  ing nations, the old and the rich no less than the young and the poor".
9.8 We should, however, remind ourselves that while assistance to development is a  critical element in the establishment of a co-operating and peaceful world community, it  is not in and of itself the primary goal of Unesco. This goal remains today, as ln Unesco's  first days, the goal of peace on this earth through "the intellectual and moral solidarity of  mankind", : . L.
9.9 To assist in attaining this goal, Unesco today faces tasks that were unheard of, or at  least little thought of, by that small group of prescient men many years ago: safeguarding  our environment; conserving our dwindling natural resources, halting the pollution of the
5  air we all breathe, and the contamination of the waters we drink; enhancing the quality of  educational opportunities for all peoples throughout the world and embarking onthe excitin  road towards life-long education; grappling with the manifold problems of overpopulation;  coping with-under and unemployment, and the increasing difficulties of rampant urbaniza-  tion; confronting the rising menace of destructive drugs and narcotics throughout the world,  especially among the young. (My delegation proposes to address itself to'this problem in  detail and to offer a resolution for Unesco action-with regard to it in the course of the  General Conference.) To meet these formidable new tasks, Unesco must adopt approaches  quite different from those that were applied in the first years of its existence. That the  Director-General is well aware of this situation is quite evident in his extremely impres-  sive presentations in 16 C/4 and 16 C/5, as well as in his convocation of consultants on the  Second Development Decade and his call for an International Commission to devise a grand  strategy on education in the course of the coming biennium.
9:10 Unesco is, I think, in a unique position to make a significant contribution toward  resolving all the foregoing problems. It has the needed organizational structure and a  quarter century of experience. It will also be addressing itself to these problems at a  time when multilateral channels are increasingly preferred to bilateral arrangements by  all parties concerned. From many points of View, therefore, Unesco appears ideally  adapted to take up these and many other new and pressing tasks.
9.11 I am deeply concerned, however, over one aspect of the situation, namely, the  breadth and depth of public commitment to Unesco's rôle in today's world: In its first  years Unesco enjoyed the image of having a clearly identified, universally supported mis-  sion, function and purpose; it was dynamic; it excited interest in-its projects and activi-  ties among the masses and their leaders throughout the world. I fear this may no langer  be the case; this very important gathering of the representatives of 125 sovereign States  has, so far as I have been able to determine, attracted scant attention indeed, outside of  our Organization, of course, at least in the world's masa media. Does this indicate flag-  ging interest in the goals and the functions of this Organization? Has Unesco become  largely irrelevant to the peoples of the world and to their leadership? I am confident that  it hes rot. The problems confronting us today, no less than those of 25 years ago, are of  a nature and an order of magnitude and urgency that demand the full and concerted support  of all our constituent membership.
9.12 The challenge is how to engender a new degree of commitment, of dedication, to  Unesco inthe minds of men everywhere - a commitment to the attainment of peace through  the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind - which will rival that of our first days.  Unless such universal interest and enthusiasm can be regenerated, the future of the Or-  ganization would appear bleak.
9. 13° What can be done to attain this commitment? The Director-General has ofen refer-  red to the rôle that the non-governmental organizations and the National Commissions  should play with respect to Unesco, and to the fact that, as originally conceived, these  bodien should be supportive of the Organization, and not vice versa. I support this position  fully. And I would suggest that these supportive organizations, and others similarly  interested, revive their public commitment to Unesco.
9.14 One of the great and perhaps most important messages that we can bring back from  this General Conference to out governments and to our peoples, in my view, is the urgent  need to regenerate broad-scale enthusiasm and support for Unesco in its continuing efforts  for well- being and peace on our planet.
9.15 Let us then urge that each of our National Commissions and associated non-  governmental érganizations be reinvigorated with questions and opportunities that will  excite their interest, challenge their idealism, and let us take advantage of their concern  for the future of mankind, a concern which animates them as it does us in this great body.  Let us ask them to engage their members, the leaders of public opinion in each of our
144   countries, to come to grips with the very questions with which our remarkable Director-  General has confronted us. Let us, for example, suggest that they use as a working docu-  ment the profound and far-sighted Future Programme proposal submitted by him in 16 C/4:  why should not our people be invited to join us in considering such critical problems as the  following: what, in a time of revolutionary change, ‘ig the proper rôle of Unesco? How can  Unesco best contribute to both material and spiritual development? How can the work of *  Unesco be facilitated in building those physicdl, psychological and cultural structures which  are preconditions for peace? How.can our individual nations, technologically advanced or  otherwise best profit from the work of an Organization committed to such noble ends? Can  our peoples once more come to feel the excitment we here in Unesco feel, knowing as we  do that we are working at the frontiers of knowledge, that we are forming an essential part  of the cutting edge of human progress? Mr. President, this is the challénge that faces the  United States delegation; and perhaps others in this hall, We want to see the sophisticated  urban centres of our confused and fearful world once more realize the promise which our  founders sensed in this Organization. We need to find new ways to involve the hearts and  minds of our own peoples.
9.16 The United States Government is keenly aware, even more than in 1945, that the  future of this Organization is crucially dependent upon the understandirig and dedication of  the peoples of the Member States.
9.17 1 assure-you, Mr. President and fellow delegates, that for our part we will do all  that we can in this regard - for world peace deserves no less. Thank you, Mr.President.
(10.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 thank Mr. John Richardson, head of the United States delegation for his statement.
(10,2) 1 call on His Excellency Mr. Shansul Huq, Minister for Education and Scientific Research  of Pakistan.
11.1 Mr. HUQ (Pakistan):  Mr. President, allow me first of all to convey to you, and through 3 you to'the distin-  guished delegates assembled here this morning, the mest cordial greetings of the. Govern-  ment and people of Pakistan. It gives me immense pleasure to associate the Pakistan  delegation with the felicitations conveyed to you by other delegations on your election to  the august office of President of the sixteenth session of the General Conference of Unesco,  We are confident that the Conference will greatly benefit from your sagacity and wisdom as  it proceeds to discuss and deliberate on the large and important Agenda before it.
11.2 Mr. President, I have listened with great interest to the illuminating and. thoughtful  statements of the leaders of delegations who have just preceded me. I would like to place-  on record our general satisfaction with the aime and objectives and the structure of the  draft programme for the biennium 1971-1972. We feel that well-deserved compliments  are due to the Director-General, the Executive Board and the Secretariat of Unesco for:  the preparation of this fine document.’ It La in the fitness of things that I/neaco’s programmes  tré'formulated and implemented in the context of a long-term plan which is now avallab'e  it an outline form for à six-year period. As human institutions grow in expérience,» they  tend to harden in conventions and attitudes. If our thoughts and actions are not sustain ad  aud invigorated by an element of idealism, the very heritage of à past of which we are’  proud tends to turn into an arid orthodoxy characterized by rigidity dnd obsolescence ‘soth  in masters of style and content. We have taken particular nate of the innovative spirit  which has obviously guided many a decision in the drawing up of the draft programme: for’
145   the forthcoming biennium. - it is imperative that we not only:sesk:new strategies for our old  and still largely unfinished “asks, such as those faced in:the developing countries, but also  pay urgent attention to a whole set of new problems with which man is increasingly con- »  fronted, often as'a result of his-own scientific and technological'achievements. There are  vast-challenges pertaining to the inner being of man, his social patterns and now even with  his quintesséntial relationship with the natural environment in’ which he lives and which hé’  exploits, consumes and fräquently pollutes with waste. As!our.awareness of the problems  grows, .our tasks multiply. It is.but natural that Unesco stiôuld respond to them in a man-  ner consistent with its Conetitution, and my delegation appreciates the efforts made in the  draft programme and budget to open up new directions and avenues. -  Ma A Te CL ‘ . te ë
11.3 There are, however, certain overriding considerations before us‘which demand that  an:expansion should always be sought in Unesco's programmes and activities without, of  course, diluting the elérnent of concentration in them. Mr: President,: thé foremost  amongst all such tasks.ie that of lending the entire weightiof Unesco to thé global effort for  peace. It is not meaningless that we find the distinguished representatives of the world: -  community placing an ever-increasing emphasis on Unesco's contribution to peace at every  session of this Conférente. It is a‘tragic fact of our times:that in the last 26 years, the  years following the bith of the United Nations, man has:dramatically increased hi  capa-  bility for destroying himself and all that is precious and worth while inithis world. Its, .  however, also a fact and indeed a heartening one that seldom before in his long history,  has he givén so much thought to the deep-rooted causes of strife and violence and perhäps;  above all, to an understanding of the aggressive impulses locked up within his own psyche.  The ‘more we understand and identify the processes which set us on the path of destruction,  the greater is the realization amongst men of goodwill all over the world that d'ifreat part.  of the struggle for peace has to be waged and. won through international co-operation ih  education, science, culture and communication. As we all know and as we have reaïfirmed :  time and again, wars begin in the minds of men and must, therefore, be tackled there.  By ' i
11.4 Mr. President, there are still terrible pi sjudices to be overcome. There aré still -  barriers of distrust and fear to be demolished. There is still a long way to go before we  can succeed in fully convincing the human race that its destiny is common and not ‘reilly  divisible in terms of race, religion and creed. 'But, in fact; one is océasionally horrified  by a large body of evidence of a process of retrogresgion in certain respects. There is a  mounting fear, for instance, that attitudes of racial discrimination might actually have  hardened and acquired a new aspect of violence and repression in many areas of the world,  particularly in certain parts of Africa. My delegation strongly endorses the measures  proposed in the draft programme for reinforcing Unesco's contribution to peace and to the  elimination of all kinds of ‘discrimination.’ Since the faétora with which Unesco is concerned  are of a somewhat pei‘enñial nature, there {s a strong need for visualizing this aspect of  Unesco's activities in the long-term perspective as well. > © + 1  ‘ ' , ra . :
11.5 In a memorable speech delivered at Geneva in July.1970, which is known to most of  you, the Secretary-General. of the United Nations spoke of the failure of the United Nations  to curb the armaments schizophrenia which has led to the emergence of such concepts as  over-kill capacity and to a yearly.wastage of 200 billion dollars, a trend which, he noted  with concern, was spreading dangerously to the smaller nations as well. More recently,  as mentioned yesterday by the Director-General, the President of the World Bank, Mr.  Robert McNamara, forcefully drew attention to the frightening contrast between what {ae  world spent on military equipment and what it invested on promoting. international economic  development. As quoted by him, the present level of annual investment in the form of ;aid  to developing countries is only 7 billion dollars compared to 143 billion dollars spent cn .  armaments.‘ Mr. President, can we afford to do less than the absolute best to awaken the,  conscience of the world to this state of affairs? It is, indeed, a foremost task for thoneat  the helm of governments and also those concerned with education, science'and culture todo  all they can to check the destructive impulses of man by channelling his vast intellectual  and material powers into constructive endeavours in the service of mankind, The need. of  the hour is clearly a décisive shift from the traditional preparations for:wars to a concer-  ted global effort for peace through education
11.8 The second iinperative, Mr. President, is. that of development. ,In the first place, it,  is inconceivable that this world of ours can.ever be.free of tension;and atrife as:lopg as.an.  overwhelmingly large share of its resources is exploited and consumed by a small fraction  of its inhabitants, while the vast majority continues to. live in appalling poverty, ignorance,  and disease. What I am saying is, indeed, a wellyknown truism. :. But, our; delegation.  would wish to emphasize it once again, as this.is:the'time for a frank and candid reappraisal  of the achivements, and failures of the First Development Decade; , it 1g,alge. the, time not.  only to work out fresh strategies but algo to make strong moral and political. decisions in,  regpect of the Second Development Decade... .We appreciate the preparatory. work done: by.  the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies, - including Unesco, for the Second, Develop-  ment Decade, It is significant that there is a broad consensus on, many important, aspects  of the analysis. of the present situation., There seems tq be no fundamental digagrepment, ..  on-the urgent need for accelerating the entire process, of international cqroperation. What  is perhaps needed is.a strengthening of the will of the nations to take - positive steps to at-.  tain the goal of harmonious development of all the regions of the world. 4110 5
11.7 Pakistan, Mr. President; is clearly one of those countries which have demonstrated  their, willingness to secure, the maximum posgible mobilization of internal resources. ‘It:  realizes, however, as indeed do all serious students of international development, .that the  efforts of countries like Pakigtan can fully succeed qnly in a-congeniai global context, Here,  Mr. President, the situation is far from being reagsuring. -It is common knowledge, that,  the net flow, of financial resourçes.to the developing countries has actually gone down.as.a -  percentage of the GNP, of the advanced. countries, even though there has been.an increase ;;  in absolute terms. What is perhaps even more digturhing is.the change, in the mood of the :  nations in which the movement for reconstruction and development was initially le aunched  at the end of World. War Il. - 0040 '
11, 8 Mr. President, " the dynamics. of human; development are, and indeed should be, as.  much qualitativeias, quantitative. ,. If Unescolg,rôle in facilitating the yrowth of the; quanti-  tative aspects of development is crucial, its efforts to bring:abont profound changes in the  quality of man's thoughts and spiritual initiatives are indeed indispensable. As we refine:  our concepts and methodologies for ensuring higher economic returns for educational in-  vestments, we must simultaneously make sure that education in its broad sense 13 also ;  creating a new kind of man who approximates closer and closer to the ideals of universal  brotherhood and internaïional cor operation embodied in the United Nations. Charte},  ‘ 1 dO
11. 9 Mr. President, when I emphasize the need tor international. coroperation in the tasks  pertaining to the preservation of peace and development, I do not-for, a moment:undarrate -;  the importance of the efforts on the part of individual nations,;..including the developing ones.  In fact, toirefer to.my own nation, the time between the:'last: General Gonference and today  has been a period of very serious reappraisal and experimentation in the field of education.  Mindful of serious deficiencies in our existing system -as well as of the need for periadio  renewal, the Government of Pakistan took the initiative about 18 months back of genyrating  a national debate on educational problems on the one hand, by getting them examined by,  study groups representing academic, pedagogical and governmental interests and on the  other, by inviting the entire nation to:comment on them, . Mr, President, this exercise re-  sulted in the adoption.of a tiew education policy based on four major. principles, . First; an  attempt has been made to secure a reorientation of the educational programme in the Tight  of the economic needs of society, particularly.by shifting the emphasis to scientific, 1tech=  nical and vocational education. Secondly, the new polity recognizés education as a vital.  instrument of social change and a key factor in: the development of .a- democratic social.  order. Thirdly, large programmes have been designed for improving the quality of peu  cation. * And finally, determined efforts are under way to decentralize educational admini--  stration and to ensure academic freedom, administrative and financial autonomy for the  healthy and efficient growth of educational institutions. EE ie ke STEEN  caen tra ©, t Lo
11.10. Mr. President, ‘the intéhaive and extensive exercises thus carried out by u us: drama-  tically highlight what 1s:pérhaps the fundamental challenge in many developing countries, I
147   ath, of coursé,’ referring to the challenge of numbers, We, for instance, came‘ to: the con-  clüsion!thdt whilè}we!Hhdd'spetit ‘a' great deal of titné and money-on higher education of an  acdderiic type, thé’ éountry had yet td undertake a determined and systematic effort at  etadicating illiteracy. ' This legacy of our past still‘'elings to us; ‘it inhibits and thwarts  our ‘efforts in'the social, political and economic fields. In the plans we have drawn up for  thé next five'yedrs, we have envisaged the creation of-inore than six million additional  plates in the prifiary, ‘middle and high school stages and another five million places in  adult éducation centres. Ambitious though these targets may appear to be, 'they were in-  estapable in the face of the magnitude of our Tesponsibilities'and commitments, We will ’  hävë'to overcome tot only the sHeer physical sizé of the problem but also, and simultane~  ously,’ the impediments created by large-scale wastage in the system. We have drawn up  plans for making use of every available formal as well as non-formal mode of education. If  we ‘are strengthening our institutional arrarigeménts for education on the one hand, -we are,  on the other, gétting ready to make the’ maximum possible use of the opportunities offered’  by radio, educational television, snd space communication. 1
11:11 ' Mr; President; I have made this brief reference to the educational ‘situation ‘in  Fäkistan, with a view to underlining ouf‘own efforts in some of the major areas of educa-  tioh ‘which ‘also offer possibilities of vastly expanded international ¢o-operation.. Earlier  .thid!year, during my visit to Paris,’ the Director-General made it possible for me to ‘ex-  plain ‘our ‘educational objectives and’ programmés to séveral important officers of this  Organization. I was; indeed gratéful-to him for this opportunity and left with thé hearten-  ing impression that there was a clear recognition within Unesco of the wider scope ôf'col-  labo ration in he ifoplementation ôf our riew education policy. :  addy 3 [PES SEIU oT ' BEE DETTE VS ENT PI 2" ,
11.12 Mr. President, we have resolved to make education the principal éndéavour of our  fourth five-year plan which was launched earlier this year. Indeed, we are already com-  mitted to spend on it moré than three titles what Was spent in the third fivé-year plan  period. I' Unfortunately, dur task has béen Made considerably moré difficult by a recent  natiral calamity in'East Pakistan, where uriprecédented floods laid waste, amongst other  things, ‘a very large number of‘edichtiotial and 'ciiltural institutions. This unforeseen’:  calamity has béen so devastating that it'is ‘doubtful if its aftermath can‘'be met entirely by  our dwn effort without a serious set-back to our programme’ of educational development.  ERE = TERY p 1 i
11.13 Mr. President, please allow'me to observe that when we talk of international co-  operation in Unesco's areas of competence we do not regard the provision of financial re-  sources ‘as the only or even the best mode of international co-operation. ‘We are, ‘indeed,  mirdful of the fact that there are other ways of collaboration which are equally essential.  We consider that:Unesco ls providing the'right kind of leadership, in organizing interna-  tiofial co-operation in education. We would strongly endorse the proposal for a truly re-  presentative iriternational commission to follow up, in the specific field of educational de-  velopment, the good work done by the Pearson Commission in the largér framework of.  devblopment. We also welcome the emphasis placed on the néed for multiple approaches  and Btrategies rather than a search for.some elusive universal model. ‘  ENE ; 5." “ ns Ha, à PE J NE > .
11:14 Mr. President, with' your permission, I would now very briefly refer to a problem  whicli ‘is receiving increasing attention from Unesco and from all those who are concerned  with: future programmes of education. 'It-is now several years since we became aware of.  the need for an intensive study Jf the problems of the youth of our time, a situation arising  out’ of feelings of general revolt against many of our established institutions, including  those ‘pertaining to education. Can we sayithat we have more than just an elementary .  understanding of this highly complex phenomenon? It is a problem of such ‘magnitude and  intensity that it can reduce to absurdity mahy an attractive concept.of education that we  formülaté in our education donferencés: Unesco has in the last few. years made commend-  able efforts to understand the intricate workings of this phenomenon. But we have a long ‘  way to go before we understand it well enough to be able to meet the aspirations of youth.  Their.unrest 18 a pointer not only to social realities of which we may be less aware than ’  they aré; It slso points to some basi¢' inadequacies in thé educhtional systems and in the
148   traditional idea of a university. This admittedly complex problem is further compoéunde  in the developing countries by the rising numbers of thé educated unemployed, ..'It ia nee  less to stress that this is a problem of far-reaching consequence to all future investmen  in education and calls for continuous study in depth. My delegation would strongly recor  mend the institution of a comprehensive programme of special fellowships for. this. -purpc  with the widest possible participation of the various regions. con Coes
11.15 Mr, President, may I now turn to another problem which is of deep concern tot us  as to several other countries of Asia, namely, that of the prèservation'of ancient cultur:  and archaeological monuments. . 1 am. confident that I am expressing the feelings not. onl{  of the Pakistan delegation but of many other delegations when I suggest that the monume:  located in Asia have yet-to receive adequate attention. The Fifth Regional Conferente o  the Asian National Commissions took note of this situation and urged the Director-Gener  to prepare. a directory or comperidium of Asian monuments and sites and to study. furthe:  possibilities of preserving such monuments as well as of obtaining assistance from inter  national sources to facilitate restoration, .renovation and conservation work. - We have,‘  the last two General Conferences, drawn the attention of the world to the’ peril faced byt  world-famous ruins of the 5000-year-old civilization at Mohenjodaro. We notice that an  amount of $30,000 in Unesco's Draft Programme and Budget for 1971-1972 has. been:ear  marked for the conservation of Mohenjodaro. We appreciate: this gesture,' symbolio thou  it may be, but-at.the same time would like to impress upon the:distinguished delegates tk  magnitude of the task, which calls for a programme of considerably larger size. We ho|  that the studies carried out by Unesco will lead to such a programme.
11. 16 There. are, Mr. President, numerous’ otha problems which world leaders in educ  tion, ‘science and culture would wish to bring to the attention of this General Conference,  They would, doubtless, do so because of their essential faith that many of these problem  represent a challenge: to mankind in its entirety and that their solution is in' fact an inten  national obligation: There could not be a rnore appropriate time and forum for this purs  pose. We are meeting in International Education Year, in this historic city of Paris fron  where the message of Liberty, Equality and Fraternity spread-to all the corners of our.{  globe. We arê confident.-that the nations assembled here will reaffirm their faith in the :  basic unity of all mankind and resolve to move forward in a concerted effort to achieve th  objectives of the Second Development Decade. Thank you, Mr. President.
12.2 Tene la palabra el Exomo, sr. Hussein onn, Ministro de Educacién de Malasta : y  Jefe de su Delegaci6n; " ‘ . TE  ir 4e ae ! ! » . A at :. “ +  “a 1). The‘ PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  - 1 thank Mr Shansul Huq, ‘Minister for Education and Scientific Research of Pakistan for his  Statement, . ; no .  ‘ a si - +4 4121 ‘ Cra . A 0 + A A Ct 1
(12.2) I call on His Excellency, Mr. Hussein Onn, Minister of Education of Malaysia.
13.1 Mr. ONN (Malaysia);  Mr. President, and distinguished delegates, firet of all, I and. the other members of  my delegation wish to congratulate the Executive Board, the, Director- General, the Secre  tariat and others for having so ably prepared and arranged this Conference.’
13.2 My first observation concerns. document 16 c/s, ‘the Draft P. Programme ‘and Budget  for 1971-1972. The Director- General has commented on the defects of the present methc  of preparing the Draft Programme and Budget. The. Executive, Board has recommended ,  that there should be two closing dates for, the submission « of suggeationg by, Member, State  for the corresponding document of the next session of the ‘General Conferençe - one on
30-April-1871 for: important changes and innovaticns' and the other on 30-September 1971  for other proposals. support the Executive Board's recommendation, as it appears to me  tooffer a workable sélution to the problemi:
13:9 The Director-General, supported by the Executive BC 4, has proposed that the con-  tributions of Member States to local operating costs of the Participation programme should  be discontinued. 1 support the proposal for the reason that it will save administrative work.
18. 4, :Document 16 C/5,. “Mr, President, has introduced for the first time the programme  relating to "Man and the Biosphere". ‘Air’ pollution and soil erosion are some of the matters  connected with! this subject. | I'support this programme and hope that sufficient funds will  be made available by Unesco tO carry out study and: research thereon.  . yey ef « ad hy Ra DA SE : . vod s acte ;
13; 5 I'am ‘also glad to note that in paragraph 953 of document 16 C/5 there is a provision  for. research on Malay culture. The provision is fon six years. I feel, however, that a  period of six years may be insufficient for such a study, and ! trust that it may be extended  should this. bécome necessary. go . Lo .  [SEPA H
13.8 One of the big problems in developing countries 18 the availability of suicable and  ¢heap school textbooks. I strongly suggest that the Director-General explore the possi-  bility of setting up a fund for the purchase of the copyrights of suitable textbooks for use  in schools. \ tu .
13.7 There is in Asia a region commonly referred to as South East Asia. This region,  Mr. President, comprises almost half of the Asian Member States in Uriesco. The total :  population of this:region is about.250 million with diverse ancient cultures.. And yet under :  the present system of eleot/-;«;' it has had no representation on the Executive Board of  Unesco’ for the last eight:years. This appears to me to:be inconsistent with the spirit of  Article V.'A..2 of the Unesco Constitution, which states that the Genéral Conference in  eleoting the members of thé Executive Board. ''shall also have regard to the diversity of  cultures and a balanced geographical distribution”. In spite of this, the Executive Board  has recommended thet the present unsatisfactory system be continued for a further period  of four years. ‘. 0
13.8 Mr. President, Malaysia regrets that she is unable to support the Executive Board's  recommendation. Malaysia has already submitted a draft resolution with à view to remedy-  ing this defect and I trust that it will get the support and approval of this Conference.
13.9 Another matter, Mr. President, which I wish to touch on is with regard to the  Second Development Decade. Some Member States including Malaysia are very consciu 15  of the serious shortcomings and defects of the First Development Decade. ,The economic  gap between the rich and poor nations cannot be narrowed by paper plans and resolutioi:s  alone. The individual needs of developing zountries have to he carefully analysed to sult  their national requirements and aspirations. Assistance to developing countries should,  therefore, be given to suit their needs and in accordance with the stages of their develo  ment. I would therefore express the hope of my country that the Second Development De -  cade will bé more productive to developing countries.
13.10 Mr. President, my country has faith in what Unesco can do for Member States in  carrying out its alms and ot jectives as set out in Article I-of the Coristitution: My couniry  alsô has faith in Unesco's euicerity in its efforts to assist the developing couniries in over  coming obstacles which impede their devziopment.” Theréfore, Mr. Président, I believe  that in order to ensure that projects approved by Unesco produce the desired results, con-  stant evaluation by qualified and independent consultants is absolutely, essential.
13.11 Laétiy, Mr. President, i wish té say that ray country sincerely bellevés in the alms  and objectives of Unésco; that she will givé' her full co-operation and that ‘she will play ‘her  full part'in contribuling to peace and security. - ‘
(14.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I thank Mr. Hussein Onn, Minister of Education of Malaysia, for his statement.
(14.2) I call on Mr. Hikmat Lubbadeh of the Jordanian delegation.  (ignd Led iss SV aSdaadly 30lSd or) Ge S>/ Sul yo)  € odd sae
6 Lad of sped! wha  mpd lm 6 hay yAMJ Ladys Lille pays de clas gor bdo 3S yd sel aid  Coq 6 Lean apdsy Lpaps Loguys LAS indlasd ddl 5aS,0 Gls s La¥l Jali  IS Lehiaadl ain gens o Leidla,gy pli SL, drs ca lis 6 wal p01 NA Wyo JS  lions) 6 dpabid) Letolpny ganeinedl Lead 505 hpolie Lin ashe go Cas oo  She Loo aadndl ple Jnl) pra | yey 6 proto 55> I gisnay 6 Led | sanding 6 Lig  Ju 6 wily el Hall elds of Aa gia Jhadly AIT y rualpadl sin 355 of Gas, NV  Seemed 50815 CM andl Lapis 6 Lisbon phiiny 6 dpa] sage Lal gas 0350 of cone   glyho}l ll y  soptadl y publ Lesage ls aay JUS anes Jaeaiadl p81 pan! pers s — Yo x  [PY FP | RE | EN CUPP RERCOU | Ros | ERE L0 le 508 6 7 ER EVV Cd EE DET  haa ppniony ¢ 11s Be ob Tell pd gaged glageadl gd aezel SSII cad  Le pers Ln gis iby pichalidl cant 1 in 5 das go aq Jo lay 6 Ml sal oe Gol La  Jd 515 pe sla Ly 6 Jay Se  VY 13d 1 phil 5 gudidl sual Gjhel LedS glad Jebus, of Gravy — Not  fa IW JC | IPO | PY WOON TIP SYR. 5 GAIN ul RS rE Le pe re re  )aY) glead wopasl VU Les das od gol 5 ol um Lonis 12055 Laas as,  g-— 1354 sans 4 JN WW LI 51555 UE J SO PYRE] IF | Pa | SANS Jo BS |
6 p——1 IRVIN] WOU JR SET [UN IN | SRR POR NEE DV OVARIFIN RA SUP SE | of dass  Yoo padl hv 95 6 Lt 90S 00) quad UL pes Ul ga al ay 6 Lys 0555 Lis  Bel gal yp pat]
6 LL wl aaedl Gof  MEET ladle 6 sd op Lad 1gaeus of os 35e bia andl of pool gaol = yo  of Wil sat of vof Lies Lab ill ns 381 Lot asd cols pall peeled!  Lol oUt TN sided pabenti Vy 6 LAIT dl MUL) pein old)  : . JStaadd  ems badl mantle dl pm des US wall Ws osjÂl 255 4AL 0 yom,  andy opel ant asd 6 pall GLY Gls Jul el dpe ps dasaadl OU
5  into gd AUS GLS, age | WA | I SUED NW 8 | Jy SPSS Be 6 SE GUS E 5 Last oe Jif  ts 138 JS oS of bre qeef JUIN jars pee seo cy Be Gs va
6 sb SUN 9e abl ye fd pr ddd Lips hiv ser OLS 6 oa ILS plo aly ile
5 Uädye CN gr JS op IE IE FY WEL J Re I SN parE I Ed)  el padl ud dhl Da hdl mine 6 V51 sad) das pb 6 Stasi AGIT aol  lied mans V1 god] Lanes dl iesadl NUIT adn Ley oad pond! dildo od,  Jo, of USM Joly JS Jobs ddl hed ddl AE Glo Gal sl pth]  ddl pl bli pla, dl yo dal all God] gob or MHL cas GJ lye gst  +5 IOUS GUNS S TRUITT TI EWI P| BFL SES CP NEVES TS LE  pol a Ladi lin 6 14qy ide of pmadaadl ol sas os plo gdldl yo FR | 25h10  ord haha JAI pnd] pasdl Jes oJ of Lew 6 GAS thos GI pasar AS od) JT  ple ai), Gohl GI Joel Ld nso Ads Jad 059, Jest old LiL  idle 54 Gadd (Ll as er Ley, claaall ads Jl. of rie Palast Lin JS  a uses 1465 Ble od oS paFhedl SLI east 1 ja dll gs AB pd
3 sos orrariadl 085 à au hidadl Lehi olds € 49 55 I 6 Jonadl SRI  » Usd y Bled] ga 3S GI psadaied Ga SAS Il oe  wile Jb 58 6 wa,l 5 gran of im witheddl goad] asd! Tis of Jo — yen  REVI JIU QUIRON [IF JE SL | J ULAII gÂ es 11 0545 pl uses oo Fagl Joie Ÿ all  Vol pps ALT Las pil Sal pil JULY 55e of a #5  if 1GLA0Jk fal sl) daniel pd Rate lige 44 gobi Le AS [WY  vo Labs, 08 ped) pea  $5 Masi phil gy Bed Bla Ta of I aah 6 syst ia — yey  tym idl iy ted] aS ad Je 6 od GaSe pe CS LS Gl Ladd any  JA a | ge SORT | Jr FFE | 58 an I ES I Pe GIE LL  pled Laney 6 Lobe pS ld S50 go dsm Joli 6 Lala LMI cf jad!  à Lama + gbliadl dl aS sin Last JE) Jig ddl aS (LOG)! 1 da 6 Wb  ellen Lib gan J Ms Jos of suf 0 ad pal SANT US, Gl aa od oud  idl gol 54815 A laadl dl etal ged ped ole pba idol ge on sane Y oJ  fag +31 sub lung 5 ÉR0dl an pladl Hé Al Jets of sol LS 6 Pld Ji ests  ASIE dad, JULY  poli ellaedl als Joue pd sdb po od old add Lf - vou  sami! hay pad) i preendly pe ll ios 31 ASL Ge Jul el és 2 St  -——pobusl yond Gls Yo 1d lanl SUITE ads dg ped! pal By pes  Sl LI cand Gam Vy shale ipjaell 9 las sls Bp Jo 8 and papel  ad 6 plail Die danas of ld dan of asadl 2S esse culls Ÿ gay 0 Leal J  cll of gredl os Kane di se Le LI pas 5 LAS, 6 Jd pe dl ell 0 Lin  ot 2 Lngubs JAI 5 praddl ob Leads poll SUL AAA I ds inl  slt ail al 5 § ral po gating daniel AIT el Gl 0 vel y © sd dl Gene ell JS  ed pis fuel 95 aad] of pill pies ol pissed oe LAS Loy glad
162   Lhd pl gol pal 5 LUNE (opacity Bead Jas sol i dates) geass of YI  OE RE) a ARS ial, sd!  a Lasol ole Saga SE oad) Say GredS pel of aul ole say = ven  ome of rin gil GUN 5e HUE Gb bil sed IE Qld dy  Jobs ol srl LS 1 III py ped clas of Ll Gly Lidl sda Glo pds  ri PUTE 5] I SVE £8] 5 SOU PW 5 Rega MM FOUN ET IRSt {ROU EVN NTR Less SERS]  JF SAN | JS I  imal Sadly oa dpi pales) ges! polis poof seule psd dy oven  IU pS I pas, idle] Lids 51 5 Lol y Jasdl 5 SI sole Si)  Le LI,
(15.1) Mr. Hikmat Fares LUBBADEH (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan) (Translation from the  Arabic):  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Unesco did well in proclaiming 1970 an International  Eduration Year during which it urged its Member States to concentrate their efforts on dealing  with educational matters of concern to them and of benefit to their peoples. Every State responded  to this appeal and made it its business to publicize Unesco and its mission. This Organization  would do well if It were to take advantage of this Conference of ours to remind the conference of  its lofty ideals, thereby encouraging them to believe in them, be loyal to them, and urge their  governments ard peoples to abide by them. For it is not enough for such principles, values and  ideals to be enshrined in print: they should be as a light guiding humanity, directing its life, and  guarding it against pitfalls, blunders and conflicts.
(15.2) We meet today at a time when the United Nations is preparing to celebrate its 25th anni-  versary and when a whole people, whose tragedy is as old as the United Nations, is looking back  to the time when the United Nations Charter was adopted in 1945, and is reviewing with bitterness  the horrors it suffered and the oppression it underwent. This Palestinian people stands bewildered  between what is repeatedly proclaimed on the one hand, and the hard reality of its sufferings on  the other.
(15.3) It is only natural for man to wonder, whenever his peace of mind and security are dis-  turbed, why the world cannot agree on principles that would protect his security, dignity, equality  and self-respect. He wonders and trembles when he sees that charters have omitted no provision  calculated to ensure universal respect of justice, law, and man's right and fundamental liberties.  But he wonders even more when he discovers that people forget, or deliberately ignore, all  charters, principles and values, violating them out of egolsm. The shortcoming lies, therefore,  withih us and not in the texts and chiarters. ’
(15.4) Ladles and gentlemen, it is my feeling that all who are here wish to hear something about  my country, the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, where recent events have roused the concern of  the whole world. 1 wish to say here that people are bent on discussing symptoms and results,  without going deeply enough to the core of the problem.
(15.5) Jordan inherited a heavy burden bequeathed by the Palestinian tragedy when the General  Assembly of the United Nations approved the creation of the State of Israel on Arab soil. An  entire people became homeless and suffered from an oppression that was unique in history. Twice  in less than 25 years - the lifetime of the world Organization now celebrating its silver jubilee -  it experlenced deprivation, expatrlation and aggression. This happened in 1948 and in 1967,  before the eyes of the whole world. It is natural that all this should have an impact on the life  of a developing country like Jordan. This country worked unsparingly to heal the wounds of its  Palestinfan fellow countrymen, to dévélop life within its territory and té achieve self-sufficiency.  It achieved considerable successes in the fields of education and economy, in spite of precarious  resources and unfavourable surrounding conditions, and in spite of a boastful and cutrageous  enemy. The regrettable events in Jordan are only the consequence of this oppression suffered  by the Palestinian people, which tried with all the means at its disposal to make its voice heard  by all the peoples of the world and convince them with indisputable evidence and irrefutable proof  that it was in the right ... But the world that made its first mistake in 1947 when it created a
163   foreign body In thé Arab region, the world which ignored the conduct of the aggressors in 1967,  that world has closed its ears and no longer hears the voice of the truth. The result was thatthe  Palestinian Arab people reached the brink of desperation, It reacted violently and its reactions  clearly verged on extremism. It did what it did out of conviction that such violence might arouse  the conscience of the world, so that it would shake off its lethargy and rescue the Palestinians  from oppression. In the past, this oppressed, peaceful people had behaved generously to the  occupying enemy, sheltering him in its territory. But his arrogence and blind fanaticism have  blunted his reasoning and urged him to commit all manner of errors and blunders.
(15.6) I say that this Palestinian Arab people wants to live on its land, under the canopy of its  civilization which it does not want to sce distorted or obliterated. It seeks a settled life for its  sons, just as other peoples do. It wants to afford its sons such equal opportunities as all fathers  wish for their children. It does not demand more than what is proclaimed by the Constitution of  the United Natlons Educational,Scientific and Cultural Organization at whose headquarters we are  meeting today.
(15.7) Again, on the principle of remedying symptoms if not causes, we should like to mention  certain questions which were the subject of complaint by my country, such as the question of the  school textbooks which the Israel authorities have refused to allow into the occupied territoryon  the west bank of the Jordan for the past three years. I note with gratitude the sincere efforts  which Unesco in general, and its Director-General in particular, have made to secure the admis-  sion of those textbooks to the occupied territories for use in UNRWA schools. I hope the books  will in fact reach our students there so that they may not be prevented from pursuing their studies  fn a manner that ensures the continuity of the curricula and programmes in force before the occu-  pation. I also hope that the Director-General will continue to use his good offices to make possible  the entry of the remalhing books.
(15.8) The other question that is of concern to my country is the question of the protection of  cultural property in the territories occupied by Israel in the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, in the  United Arab Republic and in the Syrian Arab Republic. Those historic monuments are not only  valuable to Arabs, Moslems and Christians, but constitute a cultural heritage for all mankind,  and it is inadmissible that they should be mishandled and profaned. We do not ask the General  Conference to adopt a new resolution in this regard. We have already had our fill of such reso-  lutions, which have not déterred the occupying authorities from continuing their excavation and  obliteration operations in places which we venerate in Jerusalem, Jericho and elsewhere. Where  are the decisions of the Executive Council? Where are the resolutions of **c United Nations on  Jerusalem? Where is The Hague Convention and its provisions stipulating that the occupying  forces should refrain from effecting any changes in cultural, historic and religious property? In  this connexion, 1 wish to state that the Director-General's invitation to an international meeting  to review The Hague Convention, although it was welcomed by my country, cannot but make us  wonder again whether it is the texts of conventions and agreements that count or good intentions  and civilized adherence to the spirit of such conventions.
(15.9) I wish to end my speech by thanking the Director-General of Unesco for his concern about  providing education facilities for the sons of Arab Palestinian refugees who, we consider, have a  right to call upon this Organization and the world for educational opportunities. I also hope that  the Organization will continue to lend its strong support to reglonal educational, scientific and  cultural centres in the Arab countries.
(15.10) Finally, 1 hope that there will be deeper understanding and closer co-operation among  all men so that the principles of truth, justice and equality may prevail, in fulfilment of the  eternal mission of Unesco.
(16.1) Thé PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  ' “1 thank Mr. Hikmat Lubbadéh, of the Jordanian delegation fôr his statement.  ‘ . f
(16.2) Thé representative'of Kenya will speak when a new lst of speakers has been drawn up.
164   ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT  (Message from the President of the Central African Republic)  COMMUNICATION DU PRESIDENT  (Message du Président de la République centrafricaine)  COMUNICACION DEL PRESIDENTE  (Mensaje del Presidente de la Repûblica Centroafricana)  COOBIIEHKE MPEJCE /LA TF 151  (Mocnanne Mpeasaeura IlenrpanbitoahpHKaHcKoñ Pecny61Hkn)  (shes! Lis if i peer ety 00 Wl) end) oe os
(17) The Secretary of the Conference will now read out a message from the President of the  Central African Republic.
18, Le SECRETAIRE, -  Voici le message du Président de la République centrafricaine :  "Au nom du gouvernement de la République centrafricaine, au nom du peuple centrafri-  cain tout entier, il m'est agréable d'adresser en ce jour À l'Organisation des Nations  Unies pour l'éducation, la science et la culture, les très vives félicitations que je for-  mule également en mon nom propre À l'occasion de la seizième session de la Confé-  rence de l'Unesco, Mon gouvernement est persuadé que l'action pour la paix et la re-  cherche de solutions-nobles et pacifiques aux graves problèmes actuels qui affectent  certaines régions du monde trouveront leur appui total auprès de l'Unesco qui, depuis  ga création, oeuvre inlassablement à l'établissement d'une paix fondée sur la solida-  rité intellectuelle et morale de l'humanité, Au cours de ces derniers mois de l'année
1970, qui est l'Année internationale de l'éducation, je formule de tout coeur le souhait  que l'Unesco poursuivre avec succès l'accomplissement de sa noble tâche en étroite  collaboration avec le gouvernement centrafricain, en vue de développer notre enseigne-  ment et de contribuer encore davantage au rapprochement des peuples en faveur de la  paix et de la coopération internationales, "  Général Jean Bedel Bokassa  Président de la République centrafricaine
(19.1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 should like to thank General Jean Bedel Bokassa, President of the Central African Republic,  for his message and to invite his delegation to convey our gratitude to him.
(19.2) Before adjourning the meeting, 1 wish to thank the speakers who have taken part in it for  the effort they made to concentrate their statements and stay within the set time-limits. I hope  this good example will be followed by subsequent speakers. '
(19.3) The following countries will speak this afternoon: Argentina, United Kingdom, France,  Ireland, Libya, Zambia, Turkey and Qatar.
(19.4) There being no other business, the meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 12.55 p.m.  La séance est levée à 12h 55,  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 12,55,