Eighth plenary meeting
20 October 1972, at 3.15 p. m,  President: Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan), then  Mr. NURUL HASAN (India)  Huitiéme séance pléniére
20 octobre 1972, à 15 h, 15  Président : M. HAGUIWARA (Japon)  puis M, NERUL HASAN (Inde)  Octava sesiôn plenaria
20 oxTabps 1972 r. B 15 4. 15 MuH.  IIPEACENATEMb: r-1 XAMHBAPA (AAnoHus)
1.1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Mesdames, Messieurs, je déclare ouverte la huitième séance plénière,
1,2 Etant donné le nombre des orateurs qui désirent participer au débat de politique  générale, je crois vraiment que le temps imparti pour ce débat ne suffit pas, Je vou-  drais encore une fois dire combien la présidence apprécierait que les orateurs vou-  lussent bien prêter attention à la recommandation du Conseil exécutif, reprise d'ail-  leurs par la Conférence générale, aux termes de laquelle chacun devrait s'imposer de  ne pas parler plus de vingt minutes,
1.3 Ayant à régler certaines affaires urgentes, je regrette de ne pouvoir assurer la  présidence de la présente séance, et vous prie de m'en excuser, S. Exc, M, le pro-  fesseur Nurul Hasan, ministre de l'Education nationale, de la Culture et des Affaires  sociales de l'Inde, vice-prisident de la Conférence générale, aura l'obligeance de me  remplacer cet après-midi.  (M, Nurul Hasan prend le fauteuil présidentiel)
2. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen we resume the general policy debate. The first speaker is  Mr, Bhunthin Attagara, Under-Secretary of State for Education of Thailand.
3.1 Mr, ATTAGARA (Thailand):  Mr, President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I feel it is  my duty on behalf of the Thai Government and the Thai delegation to extend congratulations  to you, Mr. President, and to the Vice-Presidents, on your unanimous election to the pre-  sidency and vice-presidencies of the seventeenth session of the General Conference and  good wishes for success in your work. The Thai delegation further wishes to take this op-  portunity to offer our warmest greetings to the distinguished delegates and all those present  here.
3.2 Allow me to add our congratulations and a tribute of appreciation to the Director-General  and the Secretariat for the effort and thought that have gone into the preparation of the Draft  Medium-term Outline Plan for the next six years and the Draft Programme and Budget for  the coming biennium. We are specially impressed by the presentation of the two documents,  The Thai delegation wishes to endorse the Director-General's approach to the Organiza-  tion's intellectual and ethical action, and to technical assistance in regard to policy forma-  tion and standard-setting, We note with appreciation his aim to relate Unesco's proposed  programmes and policies more intimately to the problems and efforts of Member States.  We believe that Unesco will gain in strength to the extent that this aim is realized.
3.3 Mr. President, may I now turn to the proposed programme of the Organization for the  next biennium, First, education: the Thai delegation notes with satisfaction the various  measures for the restructuring of the Sector which have been proposed, While strengthen-  ing the links between the Education Sector and the other sectors, the disciplines within the  Education Sector have been grouped in a way which should be conducive to purposeful pro-  gramming and action. They also correspond more closely to the structures generally found  in the Member States. Thus educational policy, planning and administration are brought  together; pre-university science and technology education will be moved to education where  it logically belongs; education for rural development takes its natural place in the Education  Sector and is integrated with agriculture education; and formal and out-of-school education  have been entrusted to a single department.
3.4 These structural changes are, in our view, commendable, They will however gain  significance to the extent that they serve the Organization in carrying out its mission with  greater effectiveness, The Thal delegation therefore notes with special interest the  Secretariat's policy to decentralize its work and give increased responsibilities to the  regional offices, We believe that unless decentralization is given effect to at the same  time as the restructuring of the Education Sector, the object of restructuring will be only  partially fulfilled, Decentralization would help to make the delivery of Unesco's programmes  quicker and more responsive to changing conditions in Member States. As host country to  a regional office we are in a position to testify to the efficiency and professional competence  which a well-organized regional office can contribute to Unesco's services to the Member  States.
3.5 The Director-General, in his address on the occasion of the Twenty-fifth Anniversary  of Unesco, called upon Unesco to dedicate itself, as one of its primary tasks, to the re-  generation of education through making it an integrated life-long process relevant to econo-  mie, social and cultural needs, The Draft Medium-term Outline Plan and the Draft Pro-  gramme and Budget, as we see them, are an attempt to invest this idea with the substance  of programmes and activities. The imperatives of national development, and the changing  patterns of social needs and aspirations are defining new and challenging tasks for.educa-  tion. They impel a search for new educational structures and fresh development goals even  while education must continue to nourish itself from the well-springs of its cultural heri-  tage. In this respect the Thai delegation welcomes the increased emphasis that Unesco is  planning to devote to the fields of population education and the use of mass media in education,
3.6 Mr. President, the problems of education in the developing countries are complex be-  cause of the tensions between the need for rapid development and the shortage of resources,  The Thai delegation is of the view that new approaches must be explored if these problems  are to be solved, even partially, In the last few years many countries round the world have  engaged in this search, The experiences and insights they have gained will be of invaluable  help to other countries. At the same time each country has to work out the solutions and  adapt them to its needs and its social and cultural environment, The give-and-take between  the universal commonwealth of ideas, techniques and inventions, on the one hand, and on  the other hand, the special needs and traditions of a country, is in itself a source for re-  generation of education. Unesco can facilitate and accelerate this give-and-take, and it is  our delegation's hope that it will do so,
3.7 In this connexion, the Thai delegation notes with great satisfaction the proposal to  establish the Asian Centre of Educational Innovation for Development. It is a proposal that  arises from the unanimous recommendation of the Regional Conference of Ministers of Edu-  cation of Asian Member Siates which met in Singapore in June 1971, The Thai delegation  endorses the proposal, which has been prepared with imagination and care, and hopes that  it will succeed in evolving a new pattern of inter-country co-operation, and through such  co-operation, contribute to strengthening the efforts of Member States to renew and reform  their educational systems, My delegation would also like to express its appreciation of.the  efforts Unesco is making - and this is evident in the Draft Programme and Budget - to fol-  low up and implement, within the limits of its resources, this and other recommendations  of the Regional Conference of Ministers.
3.8 As regards the Science Sector, the Thai delegation wishes to commend the efforts of  the Secretariat in having taken into consideration a wider scope of scientific activities which  should be more beneficial to countries of the Third World, particularly in the development  of a World Science Information System, We also support two further fields of activity; the  International Geological Correlation Programme, and Man and the Biosphere,
3.9 The outcome of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment held in  Stockholm last June has yet to be approved by the United Nations General Assembly. If the  recommendations concerning the study of the effects of the pollutants on natural resources  and those concerning the training of qualified technicians regarding environmental matters  are entrusted to Unesco, it will add another responsibility to the Organization, This has  led us to wonder if in the preparation for the budget of the forthcoming biennium, provision  has been made for additional funds to implement any new programmes that may arise,
3. 10 In the field of hydrology, the Thai delegation will be happy to endorse the launching  of the International Hydrological Programme to succeed the International Hydrological Dec-  ade, which will terminate in 1974, However, we feel that in the new programme more  emphasis should be placed on the mapping and development of groundwater resources, as  the need to have regional and world hydrological maps to show the extent of groundwater  reservoirs is now being felt, The Thai delegation would like to see such a proposal incor-  porated in the new International Hydrological Programme, )
3.11 The Thal delegation is glad to support the policy of strengthening the field science  offices in order that they may play an increasingly important rôle in the development of  scientific and technological activities in developing countries, However, it is with regret  we note that at the same time the liaison unit with the Economic Commission for Asia and  the Far East will be discontinued as from the beginning of 1973, The Thai delegation is of  the opinion that this office will be of use to the work of Unesco. Bangkok is not only the  seat of ECAFE, but also of regional offices of other United Nations Specialized Agencies.  Scientific matters to be discussed and implemented by these regional offices need to he  properly co-ordinated with Unesco,
3.12 In the Social Sciences Sector, the Thai delegation welcomes the trend towards a more  consolidated and integrated programme for the social sciences. Thailand has recently acted  as host to the meeting of experts on the Contribution of the Social Sciences to Development  Planning, in Bangkok in May 1972 and we note with interest that Unesco proposes to im-  plement some of its important recommendations, especially those related to the organiza-  tion of regular meetings of social scientists, and the promotion of regional research by  co-operative arrangements between national research bodies. We welcome the inclusion  of these proposals in the Draft Programme and Budget.
3, 13 With regard to cultural activities, the Thai delegation wishes to congratulate Unesco  on its programmes, particularly the studies of Asian cultures. Nevertheless, we are con-  cerned that the budgetary allocations for cultural projects are still inadequate. I am  happy to note that intergovernmental and regional conferences on cultural development,  training of planners in this field, as well as the promotion of artistic creation and training  will be organized during the next biennium, We also support the proposals for the clearing-  house and research centre for these fields, the programme for the training of museum and  monument specialists, and the encouragement of young people's participation in the preserva-  tion and presentation of cultural property. We venture to hope that Unesco will lend its  support to the studies of the cultures of mainland South East Asia inthe future. The Organi-  zation's efforts in urging its Member States to adopt the Convention on the Means of Pro-  hibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural  Property are also to be commended. In this connexion, I should like to report the most  interesting archaeological discoveries recently made at the Ban Chieng area in the north  east of Thailand. The excavations revealed artifacts belonging to the Bronze Age people  who lived in this part of the world between 6,000 - 7,000 years ago. We believe that the  discoveries made are of great value not only to Thailand, but to the world community who  should be informed of our ancient civilization, We therefore invite the attention of the  international community to the discoveries, and venture to hope that it would lend us the  necessary support and assistance to enable us to carry out further excavations and to pre-  serve the valuable sites and artifacts,
3,14 Turning now to the Communication Sector, the Thai delegation appreciates the Director-  General's decision to give high priority to the training of technicians and management per-  sonnel, My delegation wishes to express its concern about the limitation of the budget  allocated to this Sector, and hopes that a substantial increase will be made in the future.
3.15 The Thai delegation would like to draw attention to an important communication lag.  In the last few years, Unesco's programmes and activities have grown on a large scale,  but public information about these programmes has not kept pace. My delegation would  urge that concerted efforts be now made by Unesco to disseminate information on Unesco's  mission and its programmes widely and systematically to the public,
3. 16 As regards the method applied in the election of the Executive Board, the Thai dele-  gation wishes to support continuation of the system of electoral groups, and hopes that the  number of seats allocated to the Asian region will be substantially increased with due re-  gard to the vast number of its population and the diversity of its cultures. The Thai dele-  gation wishes to recommend that the Conference seriously considers the possibility of
200   reducing the term of office of members of the Executive Board from six to four years so  that a quicker rotation of seats among Member States might be attained,
3. 17 In conclusion, the delegation of Thailand pledges its full support for all activities of  Unesco, We on our part will endeavour to perform our duty as a member of this great  international Organization in the common interest of mankind, Thank you, Mr, President,
4, The PRESIDENT:  I thank Mr, Attagara for his statement. Inow request Senator Dr, Eduardo Paz Aguirre,  head of the delegation of Uruguay to take the floor.
(5.1) Mr. PAZ AGUIRRE (Uruguay) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President, delegates, ladies and gentlemen, the delegation of Uruguay wishes to express  first of all, Mr. President, its deep satisfaction at your election to the Chair of the seventeenth  session of the General Conference of Unesco, which we, like all delegations in this assembly,  have supported with our vote. The reason for our satisfaction lies in the knowledge not only of  your exceptional intellectual powers and personal ability, but also of your position as the repre-  sentative of an ancient culture, rich in its resources and generous in its contribution to the cul-  ture of the world. I also offer my good wishes to the Vice-President, the distinguished repre-  sentative of India, who presides over this discussion.
(5.2) Uruguay has come to this General Conference of Unesco with the firm desire to achieve  practical results and to co-operate in the efforts of other Member States to ensure that the great  principles which our Organization was founded and lives to serve may find expression in the  reality of everyday life.
(5.3) The challenge of our times is practical, and any dichotomy of thought holding that theory  can be divorced from practice, the abstract from the empirical, is false. Our country, since  its emergence as a State, has declared a profound calling towards the universal. At the same  time, however, it knows and feels that this universality must be worked out in history and with-  in the structure that history provides. As a sovereign State, therefore, we affirm this condition  within the fraternal context of the great homeland of Latin America, and feel ourselves bound to  regional broiherhood. Thus as a sovereign State, in the great Latin American movement, which  is at one and the same time historical, emotional, economic and cultural, we are proud to form  part of this Third World of developing countries. We belong to the Group of Seventy-seven and  know that there our strength lies, not simply because we are a numerical majority but more es-  pecially because our claims, like our needs, are just.  (£.4) As a man is nothing unless created for, by and out of the community, so nations are noth-  ing unless they affirm their irrevocable individuality for, through and out of the international  community. Thus, stressing our communal vocation, we unreservedly support with all our might  the struggle against colonialism, neo-colonialism or any colonial or neo-colonial situation dis-  guised by some other name. The scourge of colonial exploitation must be fought as a task vital  for the national and social rehabilitation of many countries, but also for their cultural redemp-  tion, which is indissolubly linked to those other two causes. For colonialism denies, dims and  distorts the peoples‘ real cultural response, confines it within alien forms of words, and fetters  it wilh problems and solutions which are not its own and are not conceived and formulated as the  real cultural needs should dictate.
(5.5) There can be no knowledge, no formulation of knowledge - which is science - no trans-  mission of knowledge - which is education - nor that great synthesis of knowledge which is cul-  ture, where freedom is stifled and the great collective will is replaced by the decisions of a few,
204   or where this great collective will is eclipsed by the demands and so-called reasons of a foreign  Power. Development is to liberate oneself, development is to liberate men and communities so  that they nay freely turn all their creative energy to the great human endeavour that is the task  of all men and all peoples.
(5.6) The delegation of Uruguay therefore believes that there can be no more appropriate  gathering than this for declaring a categorical refusal of colonialism and repudiating ny disguise  in which it may try to conceal itself; a categorical refusal of racialism, a categorical refusal  of intolerance in any form - including that subtle form, a blind conservatism that repulses the  demands of the new generations because it is hostile to all change,
(5.7) But the delegation of Uruguay wishes to be specific on this point. Its aim is not to recite  a list of principles. On the contrary, it considers - and it believes that the whole of this assembly  unanimously agrees with it - that those principles are and must be functional and operative.  Only where this condition is fulfilled can we speak of development and answer the great question  of our times: development for what? For development is not a row of figures but the great re-  sult that figures can e::press synthetically: the birth of man and of all his qualities and possi-  bilities within the vast historical frame which has borne and nourishes him: his own culture.
(5.8) We are proud to state here that in our country man and his freedom are our highest value.  We are proud to recall here that primary education has been compulsory in Uruguay for almost  a century. We can state that the same applies to secondary education. And we can state that  since the end of the last century, education has been provided completely free of charge in  Uruguay -at all degrees and levels, from primary school to university. It is not a privilege for  the few but a right for all: all have access to education and all have the right to use it.
(5.9) But we know that this is not sufficient. We are aware of our limitations, We realize that  education must be continually brought up to date so that it may keep pace with the constant and  enormous advances of knowledge that are being achieved day by day. And so we come to-a cru-  cial point - the tender spot, we might add, of all the developing countries: how can education be  continually brought up to date with limited national resources? -How can we choose the most re-  warding and effective means? How can we relate the needed reforms to the restrictions imposed  by the national development situation itself?
(5.10) It is here that Unesco's co-operation can and must be essential. The delegation of  Uruguay believes that Unesco's course of action is linked fundamentally to the following issues:
(1) priority for regional and sub-regional programmes; (2) strengthening of regional groups  providing technical assistance and advice; (3) practical assistance to an education which will  really benefit development, so that acquired knowledge can be used in a programme that will be  cumulative, gradual and enduring.  {5.11) The delegation of Uruguay does not believe that these three points should be regarded as  restrictive and applying only to education. On the contrary, they mark the paths to be followed  in science, technology, culture and, of course, communication, Although the conceptual dis-  tinction between education, science, culture and communication is to a certain extent inevitable,  we in the developing countries know that to achieve the goal in view - development itself, in the  full human sense in which we are living and visualizing it - education, science, culture and com-  munication must follow parallel paths which often cross because of their necessary. interrelation.  Thus the three points mentioned by the delegation of Uruguay in the specific case of education -  priority for regional and sub-regional programmes, strengthening of regional groups providing  technical assistance and advice, and practical support of education for development - can be re-  peated in the spheres of science, technology, communication and culture.
(5.12) Priority for regional and sub-regional programmes can help, among other purposes, to  speed the integration process that recurs in broad historical and cultural areas, in the most  logical and realistic of the choices that lead to the universal, the choice determined by our own  setting, experience and problems and by the needs that lie closest to us and which, because of  their closeness, can be more easily shared; to concentrate our efforts on the great priority  projects that will lead to greater efficiency and advantage for others; to tackle common prob-  lems through a full and fruitful exchange of experience, of points of view, and even of individual  setbacks.
(5.13) The strengthening of regional groups providing technical assistance and advice will make  it possible, in regions and sub-regions, to channel and give effective expression to the response  of the inhabitants. This does not mean, we should explain, a nalve return to pseudo-nationalist  theories, but recognition of the danger of applying a mere abstract formula devoid of practical
205   context, a purely formal and academic response, Technicians, advisers and consultants are  welcome in our territories. But we are sure that their aid would be even more effective if it  could be given within a collective capable of assessing and measuring it at any level, however  high. This task of integration would be performed most appropriately and capably by technicians  drawn from the regions and sub-regions and transferable between them, who would work out and  clarify, by exchanging experience, not only the solution of problems but also their clear and  precise definition, adapting techniques and knowledge by thorough local research and local eval-  uation to the social and ecological fratures of the region.
(5.14) This plan could offset, at lvust partially, the inevitable limitations that we heard the  Director-General mention a few days ago in this same room when he spoke of the task performed  by experts and technical advisers. It could also obviate the poor imitations, the "imported'' re-  search, the mere transfer of technology, and the simple acquisition and consumption of science  created by others described powerfully and dramatically in the plenary meeting of the Group of  Seventy-seven by the distinguished delegate of Iran, Professor Reza, chairman of the Group's  Science Commission.
(5.15) The third point that the delegation of Uruguay wishes to make concerns the practical sup-  port for education, science and culture which is actually aimed at development. We have already  stated that in this way acquired knowledge could be used and put to work in programmes that  would be cumulative, gradual and enduring. Assistance to regional and sub-regional programmes  and strengthening of regional technical-assistance groups necessarily raise the question of  what is the real target, not merely the projected aim, of development. And at this point, which  completes a process leading to the national through the regional scene, bringing this into sharper  relief, we come to the international and universal scene, in the purest and clearest meaning of  the term. It is what the Director-General, in his Introduction to the Draft Medium-Term Outline  Plan, calls ''giving Unesco's activities a more intimate bearing on the problems and efforts of  Member States". What the Director-General describes in clear terms as "technical assistance  in regard to policy" can be further defined in his own words used in this Introduction. 'I am  aiming", he says, "at... the use by governments of the Organization's services ... in the pro-  cesses of study, critical appraisal and decision leading to the adoption of a particular policy".  The aim is, he adds, later, to ''profit from the possibility of deriving advice from a common  fund of experience and thinking".
(5.16) We in the developing countries know that every specific policy is conditioned in its turn  by the essential target on which the sights are set: development itself. And in this taskofgiving  Unesco's activities "a more intimate bearing’ - which should not be laid only upon the Secretariat,  its technical and administrative structures and the undeniable qualities of its director, but also  upon all the Organization's Member States - there can be, in the view of the Third World coun-  tries, only one possible and ultimate specific policy: that of development. This policy is one  indissoluble whole - cultural, educational and scientific, as well as social and economic. And  it is with this "Leitmotiv" constantly in mind that Unesco's ‘technical assistance with policy"  must be given, at least to those countries and peoples that make up the immense majority of this  world's population.
(5.17) We warmly welcome this concept and, because it has been uppermost in our minds, we  have thought we could usefully outline some of the ways - at the national and regional levels - in  which countries might adopt the necessary practical position. No one is ~ or should be - alone  in this process of study, critical appraisal and decision. No one is, and, what is more, no one  wishes to be alone. From their innermost national aspirations, from their regional structure  created by ties in which living history is expressed, all countries are moving towards joint solu-  tions for common action and, through these, towards the supreme gift of prace.
(5.18) We trust that these plain and unpretentious observations made by the delegation of Uruguay  on some of the main issues to be taken up by the General Conference will be a meaningful contri-  tution and will be taken as a sign of the deeply-felt concern that unites us all and enables us to  pursue our task. To be of the smallest service is our greatest ambition, and for us a cause not  simply for pride but also for great satisfaction, which we hope is shared; for this shared satis-  faction is the rich harvest that springs from the seed of common effort.
6, The PRESIDENT:  I thank Senator Dr. Eduardo Paz Aguirre of Uruguay. I now request H, E, Mr. Ahmed  Abdulla Abdul-Illah, Minister of Education of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen  to speak,
5 By FUPY | RS | BY CJ SPY 55 Vegas PS SU PRS] [a POF gt el IY  BESET 855 98 ii CURE RE) Wa WT | J 5504 PRCEVS| I ENT 5 FRE]  bao All Lin pi sans sil Yio Lino 635 of Jala Waly 0 Joadl paliadl 5 Sled!  spare loo plnidl psp Ladd Ging 6 pabadl ging ply SLI CN La gd 15,0  ey oH dap Sal 5 6 ia dl bl andl 0S tr per 6 ib nud Lol  dyi bye pady she ghe SUIS 6 BUST EEN WEIN SR EE ION  pme US GI Me Jaadl LIU AUS Ln] puss ib] iad) Gal of — VON  is J seu sid) La sted 7e WS] diy 6 ail] pied] ae Gs (Jao  pbs) que LE pee ASIA RE pp =) Mas o 6 PLU FC BPRS] iss pr ier, J < dat  RESP ST PE
0 inl Ju Las pibasidl 6 11 Of mmf an YY dee 6 La pend] ceaal add oy Jy  HPT I ay SPRL [y WRIST | By SPORE BI] Ja as pais pandas Clee pis of col, ad,  di, eis pl dS J LLdl Fin Jam, SIN pl 3d) els spas Lindi JVI  sil ideal Jota SLLOU | ages Gmail LS | pad] io peer pe Ga SL  ged ped] SLA ae (Pls GLS LL Wy olasil 5 puni pe Sand! GA LJ  ladle) dS, 6 mail ind) osha) apes iid] ada De pity 0 Gaal)  + Dia LL LE SLI SRE SLE SS LEST IPRE SEES LS FOUN | FSS FOR] RV  NF Ue pdf IAE 0 da pd RIES § Fy UL 50 Sol 51 6 KY OW | 1 SON VA  pened] ds Lans 55 45 6 gd on SSI 6 pla SN leas] didn, J gay  ds ès VUS 6 Gsm SI ls Sas sl is Sp Ja ol ss No id ya  ef as lad] yi iS pad Wi Geass be GRIS i al Jad] EN ol Lag!  re PE = TE ECP S| R SPER IN FEC INPY PPR IPR LPR NOR SN SETHE it SS [DU]
6 imbl ini plasedl dn, pees 6 Gl Sly 6 nds cine] i dl i peed]  o Poli) pears  ¢ ot A se = VON  or lasy!l Gold  ASS pS el tabi LIN sles) Gland hs Laser oD aS) add  IL ail, Ll Blo, ple cl ar pa eS i lad] nad] al
25 ley Lola Told] adnan 6 iomaddl ib] pic all pad! ig) pees pb al  Om 6 BL, AIN 5 AT po GRAN Jn Yale (Ld all ig ead)  ENA RUS STRCIN) | INL | EPEC E REVERT Py pau IN il pda JE CE Re |  ole liad pal dl 9 dl ae Jales Ciinel Gadd die Lil, ails ees  olay dl Slade) ddl lad] Gis! GARE Je oa dita] 3S  SL)LL BUG NU 6 ay gant l 10 1 SLA | EP SAPP J JUN | I IT  om els Lan ti ais cts Le 6 Lai ds peasy dl pl go CAS, SY)  mb gras sed LU rn Lo LIMIT is, ide dl sas pe 0 Leds Gob  Dogar oho ppl Lidl pn AN ol ep LAN 1 golaad¥i liad pal) a) spar  Liha! Las 6 fidics 5985 SX 6 Lead 0 pe Lod code ol Gb Lal iy 6 igo pandl pa  aigu lie ws tsl Ul, in) pend! ob ANUS IE J OMS a NTI Gis SSI  dl pid i Lad clay ELLE tony dl Ta Jay of bad  + pau gif PG] RYN
5 lise oe ose 6 ima Se JE Jae sad Rha) Ga dE Sl gl  Sosrdlom of 4 Lisl UN 6 of 1 aay on san La 555 dhl ed 0 ais  J. € RY ES | se ICUNSIPR | BECHER RPO PUAN | JPR 0 FES IK] locals Uns!  UE quels Cats TRDUNS | RL WOTGIE ROS: SUPP IS TSU J | RUN JPR SA NF 3 | POON |  is 133 ad 58,01 Ble anis 58 dois] pees Gob Lia i 6 (5pm pal  LE Tia pb Jbl ean ol gad] mais me  iY pan 12 ol aad) Seite oe Jato BLU ee Sm Ls  RE FE EL di dR Tait = LIT Spee | WS LR. 031 dia pd)
7} EEE SEN | Ryo POW] Ravin APR RE iG. SACI] UDG JR) Li 6 EN SUS | [PY SF de AE A  RUNGE JEU P NCE VA [TT] RUE Ge SOR CRP Lait OEY SPIE BY Pou | Jat ENC  Ait PRUE. 5 SNS PATON eda abd, old JS List ata Jani dl HR] ot s ia
6 LI! EN FAI ds CY UF PO TPR JLsÿl SPE 8 Jp
6 ges dl 5 dGe — VONN  GA 405 6 O8 +) 04 JAN SL ROUT 5 WS Ry § Uy S| sie LI  ay 6 opti sb 55 oa oy, rms Lid ra] Ee I GAL 598 vois pied  y—— ll, Hi 6 Leluial Laguna V5 cll an Ÿ FUI Of PETE FE [RPS |  Fido sl Jods FLAN day oe wilh sda Jhte, oindaz dl Jas gay asl, Las  oS Yo elas JI gad! anand doa of grand) SAP paca] Tia pe JWG  ceinadl Tia pas Gb LL deep hued ed) Lowe iLL
6 pl 451 6 ga PFI SE et) KES prés ol BM 455 dau cs yyy  (SB) NT 5 6 VE | DRE) | Ue EN J A0 Louis sil ral Ses Sal se J | PR HI pov Sou  el 88 4 + pasted] Lda ogi wily 6 in, Sul ated sad 5250 gf
(7.1) Mr. AHMED ABDULLAH ABDUL ILAH (People's Democratic Republic of Yemen)  (Translation from the Arabic):  Mr. President, it gives me great pleasure to begin this speech by congratulating you on  your election to the Chair of this session. I am certain that you will fully deserve the trust  placed in you by the General Conference. I am also delighted to greet the President of this  meeting, the Head of the delegation of India.
(7.2) I should also like to congratulate the delegation of the People's Republic of China, which  has now joined the international community after almost a quarter of a century of isolation im-  posed by forces hostile to the progress and welfare of mankind. The admittance of China to  Unesco will undoubtedly be an effective contribution to the programmes of this international  Organization and to the realization of its lofty principles, China's experience in fields and  activities of concern to Unesco is sufficient proof of its ability to contribute that experience to  the international community and to make it available to all those seeking a better life.
(7.3) The determination of the international community, and its assertion of the need to admit  the People's Republic of China to the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies, give rise to  optimism that we are steadily moving towards international peace and understanding. We hope  to have among us other nations which play a prominent world rôle in culture, education and sci-  ence, and which are achieving success after success. I refer to the Democratic Republic of  Germany, the Popular Democratic Republic of Korea, the Provisional Revolutionary Government  of South Viet-Nam, and the Government of Norodom Sihanouk.
(7.4) Democratic Yemen has complete faith in world peace as a means of creating an interna-  tional community living in harmony and friendship. This conforms to the spirit of its Constitu-  tion, which calls for strengthening of relations with all peace-loving countries, and complies  with the resolutions of the Fifth Congress for the Organization of the National Front.
(7.5) Four years ago - to be precise, in October 1968 - our delegation spoke from this rostrum  at the fifteenth session of Unesco's General Conference and explained to the world the heavy leg-  acy left by British colonialism. It described the deteriorating condition of education and the  problems which confronted our young nation in curriculum development, educational management  and education in general. It also affirmed that we were persevering in our effort to achieve our  people's aspirations, in pursuance of the principles for which our sons gave their lives. I am  here today to tell you of our achievements in education. Student enrolment in primary schools
209   has increased by over 150% in the past five years, and we have extended education to parts of  the country which had been deprived of this legitimate human right. It is our aim that by 1980  education should be compulsory at this level for every child of seven. We have taken a big step  forward at the preparatory level of education, and have established a plan aimed at absorbing
50% of the 13-15 year age group. Despite its limited resources, our country has increased its  education budget by 90% over the 1967 budget.
(7.6) The keen desire of our people for education was the driving force which moved us to in-  crease our accomplishments further in this field, Thus the movements undertaken by the people  and their participation in the building of schools of all kinds indicate the extent of the awareness  of the Yemeni citizen of his general responsibilities and of the close adherence of the masses to  our democratic system. Mainly through these movements and efforts by the people we have been  able to build over 300 schools with State assistance,
(7.7) Since 22 June 1969 we have paid special attention to education as an investment. We have  made it a point to establish educational institutions whose chief aim is to serve our plans for so-  cial and economic development. In co-operation with the Arab Republic of Egypt we have set up  the Nasser Institute of Agriculture, which this year willbecome a Faculty of Agriculture, Through  a bilateral agreement with our friend the Soviet Union, we have established a secondary-level  Fisheries Institute, as fishery resources constitute an important part of our economy, At the  same time, in agreement with the United Nations Development Programme, we have established  a school of nursing and a higher college of education for the training of preparatory and second-  ary school teachers.
(7.8) Here I must affirm that everything we have achieved in this short period, which British  colonialism did not achieve in over a century, was accomplished with assistance from the inter-  national community. I should therefore like to express my sincere appreciation to Unesco and  the United Nations for all their efforts. I should also like to thank our Arab sister States for  their technical aid and their financial assistance to our school building programme. Foremost  among these countries are Kuwait, the Arab Republic of Egypt, the Syrian Arab Republic, Libya,  Iraq, Sudan and Algeria.
(7.9) My colleagues have all stressed the lofty aims of Unesco. The Director-General has  also stressed, in many parts of his report, the relation of culture and progress to peace. In the  People's Democratic Republic of Yemen we firmly believe that, as has been proved by man's  experience, war conflicts irreconcilably with progress, education and culture. Expanionist wars  of aggression anywhere corrode the individual and destroy his dignity, his spirit and his culture.  Ever since we achieved our independence we have been trying through numerous programmes to  overcome the heavy legacy of utter ignorance and the general state of backwardness which British  colonialism left in our country. However, an Arab State, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, with the  collaboration of American imperialism and motivated by its desire for domination and expansion,  continues to nlace military obstacles in the path of our progress. It enlists mercenaries and  provokes conflicts which lead to war and obstruct our country's programmes for cultural, eco-  nomic and social progress. Because of this a great number of schools situated on our frontiers  with Saudi Arabia and in the areas where i’ recruits its mercenaries have virtually been closed,  and this has forced us to move thousands of students to the interior of the country. 1 therefore  appeal to this great Conference to uphold the principle of peace and to study ways and means to  impose sanctions on those who provoke expansionist wars of aggression.
(7.10) After studying the Draft Programme and Budget for 1973-1974, we should like to make  two comments concerning the regional programmes. The first concerns the Arab States Centre  for Educational Planning and Administration in Beirut. The relevant paragraphs indicate that  this Centre will be converted into a regional office for education, one of the activities of which  will be the Organization of training courses for educational planners. Despite the apparent  soundness of this proposal, we think it necessary to devote greater attention to planning and pro-  gramming. At a time when the UNDP is initiating the idea of Country Programming, and the  Arab States are beginning to realize the importance of educational planning, we hear talk about  reducing the activities of this Centre, We therefore request the Conference to reconsider this  question, The second concerns the Sirs el Layyan Centre. Owing tothe importance ofthis Centre  and the benefit which is expected of it, we hope that the Conference will consider, ani find ways  to strengthen and improve, its financial situation.
(7.11) Another question concerns the essence of the philosophy on which Unesco was founded.  That is the cause of a people doomed to vagrancy, pursued and threatened with extinction at the  hands of a State member of this Organization. it is the cause of a people whose children have  been deprived of the most fundamental of the human rights which this Organization defends: the
8  right of man to education. It is the cause of a people, steeped in civilization and history, whom  the oppressor has persistently robbed of its glory handed down from father to son. It is the tradegy  of the Palestinian people at the hands of Israel, which has been admitted as a member to this  Organization but has ignored every decision adopted by this Organization's Executive Board until  recently has refused to answer communications from the Director-General. This is a tragedy  for which the whole world is responsible. Our Organization has a great responsibility to educate  the younger generations and protect the heritage of mankind,
(7.12) In the face of this tragedy, which has lasted over a quarter of a century, the Palestinian  people finds itself homeless, its history threatened and its heritage stolen. It finds that the world  is neither aware nor heedful of its tragic plight. Its only choice has therefore been to take up  arms; and this will remain its only choice until the world is aware of the roots of its tragedy.  We hope, therefore, that this civilized international gathering will act to restore justice, so that  the tragedy of our Arab people of Palestine may not remain a shameful blot on its conscience.
(7.13) In conclusion, my country's delegation would like to thank the Director-General,  Mr. René Maheu, for his sincere efforts to achieve the aime of our Organization for the well-  being of humanity. It would also salute Unesco's Secretariat and all the delegations present at  this Conference.
8. The PRESIDENT:  I thank H, FE, Mr. Ahmed Abdulla Abdul-Illah, Minister of Education of the People's  Democratic Republic of Yemen, I now request H.E, Mr. Hossein Kazemzadeh, Minister  of Science and Higher Education of Iran to take the floor.
9,1 Mr, KAZEMZADEH (Iran):  Mr, President, Mr. Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, may I first of all con-  gratulate ihe President on his election to the high office of presidency of the General Con-  ference of Unesco. It is indeed a tribute to him for his many eminent qualities and to his  country as a great citadel of culture and civilization, I likewise express my delegation's  deep sense of gratitude to Mr, Dell'Oro Maini for his distinguished and unfailing discharge  of duties as the President of the sixteenth session of the General Conference, and to  Mr. Kirpal for his memorable services as Chairman of the Executive Board,
9,2 The biennial convening of the General Conference presents a valuable opportunity for  the exchange of experiences and views and for determining the course of action that this  international body will take during subsequent years, Therefore, a hearty welcome to the  new members joining the international community is in order. They expand the breadth  and depth of experience and views that Unesco can draw upon. Indeed, the membership of  the People's Republic of China in Unesco enhances the global nature of this Organization,  thus contributing further to peace and international understanding.
9,3 I wish, also, to express our appreciation to the Director-General for providing us with  the two documents 17 C/4 and 17 C/5 and other related papers and particularly for his in-  spiring address to the General Conference for a highly-reflective frame of reference for  enlightened discussion,
9. 4 This seventeenth session of the General Conference is being held at a time when we  are in a position to evaluate the initial performance of the Second Development Decade and  the practical effects of resolutions taken at the sixteenth session of the General Conference,  particularly that relating to the declaration of the year 1972 as International Book Year,  which according to information now available has led to far-reaching effects for the devel-  opment of material and means for the dissemination of ideas and the spread of man's thoughts.
9. 5 In speaking of development, we must remember that, as was clearly stated at the last  session, man is both the aim and the means of development; and one should immediately add  that development as an interrelated totality must be first harmonious and endogenic and  second, inclusive of all human and non-human elements. Development cannot rest exclu-  sively on economic factors; rather its aim must be to develop man's capabilities to elevate  himself morally and spiritually, while acquiring proficiency in skills needed to provide for
8  his material life, The exclusive view of man as a productive factor has been conducive to  a host of unprecedented problems such as, the breakdown of time-honoured values, the cul-  tural and generation gaps, the extreme change of attitudes, tastes, expectations and ideas  among the youth, and resilience among social groups with adverse effects on world peace,  not to speak of the urgent problems of environmental pollution. Here lies the root of the  present crisis in clvilization and education, Furthermore, as long as development is con-  cieved without taking into consideration the moral and cultural dimensions of man, the crisis  will continue and even grow like development itself, The crisis will reach a permanent  stage similar to the stage of sustained economic growth when the pace of development sur-  passes man's potential for change and when the present generation of men accustomed to a  slower pace of change disappears.
9.6 It gives us a feeling of relief to see that Unesco, in section 94 of document 17 C/4 is:  asked to recognize the need for a comprehensive study of the crisis of world civilization,  and particular studies to be undertaken are suggested,
9.7 On education, we fully appreciate the efforts made by Unesco during the last decade in  bringing to the attention of responsible educationalists the need for quantitative expansion  of education. In fact, Unesco has been instrumental in making various States conscious  and responsive to such an expansion. But as the pace of expansion is not commensurate  with the pressing need for education, linear expansion fails to lessen the pressure for school  attendance, necessitating new and imaginative measures to be contemplated. The initiative  of Unesco, in organizing the International Commission on the Development of Education,  therefore, is regarded as a positive step in this direction, We wholly support the initiative  taken thus far; however, the Commission's findings and recommendations may include points  whereon differences of opinion are entertainable,
9. 8 In general, we believe that educational policies are to be formulated in the direction  of diversification, decentralization and innovation based on national objectives, To diver-  sify, we must harmonize the content of education with various human and economic needs.  To decentralize, we must break up large administrative units of education into regional  and sub-regional units, thus allowing for practicability of evaluation and supervision as well  as active public participation, And to contemplate new modules and adopt new approaches,  we must draw upon the potential resources of various national cultures and forms of human  experience, In fact any new system which is not linked to culture of a human community  and is not based on human values is doomed to failure.
9.9 Iam pleased to state that in the direction of diversification Iran is already in the pro-  cess of introducing into school curricula subjects which are relevant to the present stage  of our economic development. We have already started to decentralize elementary and sec-  ondary education by empowering various regions of the country to administer autonomously.
9. 10 With regard to innovation, I should primarily like to refer to Iran's Educational Re-  volution which was declared in 1967 by His Imperial Majesty, It is a call for continuous  evaluation of the educational system and for its adaptation to the needs of a dynamic society  for skilled and self-confident manpower, In this sense, the Educational Revolution rests  on three pillars: first, planning for educational expansion on the basis of future socio-  economic needs; second, continuous evaluation of performance of the system, including  the relevance of educational curricula to social and human nceds; and third, training of a  class of educationalists whose possession of both moral standards and professional pro-  ficiency is crucial for the rearing of future generations. The first pillar is concerned with  the social structure of tomorrow; the second, with the adaptation of today's learning to to-  morrow's requirements, and the third with the men who provide the links between the past  and the future. Thus in our revolution the basic assumption is to allow for adaptation as  well as to preserve the continuity of history, Indeed, we aim at preserving our cultural  heritage at the same time that we aim to reach the highest possible stage of technological  development. To put it differently we aim at preparing ourselves for tomorrow while pre-  serving and strengthening those characteristics which have enriched the life, the culture
212   and the philosophy of the East, It is our firm belief that this approach will help us to meet  the challenge of the existing crisis of our time which has progressively caused man to  shrink into insignificance,
9.11 Concerning innovation in education I should like to record, as an example, the joint  Irano-Unesco experiment with functional literacy recommended by the 1967 Conference of  Ministers of Education, It is indeed a new and effective method for literacy campaigns.  In brief, functional literacy is a teaching method whereby in two periods of 35 weeks stu-  dents are enabled to cover subjects ordinarily requiring 4 to 5 years at the elementary level  Moreover, it enables the students to learn a vocation, This method is very suitable for  large illiterate rural populations, and in Iran's Fifth Development Plan we envisage having  one million of unskilled workers trained in this way, May I add at this point that functional  literacy must naturally continue to be both literacy vocationally-oriented, it also should take  on a cultural orientation in order to allow for continuation of cherishable cultural values.
9.12 I should like also to make a short reference to the educational innovation in the form  of the Literacy Corps. As a revolutionary method of limiting the mounting expenses of  education while allowing for educational expansion, the system has proved to be effective  and efficient. We note with satisfaction that the Literacy Corps has received recognition  by being granted the Unesco Nadezhda Krupskaya Prize. We continue to seek further in-  novational methods in education, and with this aim in view, in the Fifth Development Plan,  we expect to carry out several new methods, notably a form of open university system -suit-  able to the Iranian situation based on full utilization of audlo-visual techniques adapted to  local requirements.
9,13 Innovational methods in education require systematic collection of information on  various experiences and rests on experimental research work, I take this opportunity to  mention that the International Institute for Adult Literacy Methods in Iran was originally  conceived as having such a mission. It is proper, indeed, to help this International Centre  to perform its function, as shortage of funds has incapacitated this potentially capable  organization,
9.14 Mr. President, the implementation of innovational methods will be expensive, Unesco's  available resources seem to make it unprepared to engage in this matter on a world-wide  scale. Therefore, possibilities must be increased, and untapped resources to be explored,  We suggest the formation of a committee to study both conventional and unconventional ways  and means of raising the level of Unesco's resources. May I mention at this stage that  some time ago His Imperial Majesty suggested that all countries ‘allocate a single-day's  cost of their military expenses to the cause of literacy, to which some countries including  Iran made immediate response, We believe that in a world in which about $200 thousand  million are annually spent on cold war, a sum of $119 million mentioned in the Unesco bud-  get for two years for the development of better human beings in a better world can only be  considered as insignificant, My delegation supports the Unesco budget as proposed, reserv-  ing its right to express views on details and separate items. The Iranian delegation would  be grateful if the Executive Board could study the financial problem thoroughly and if neces-  sary, set up a special committee with the view to finding new financial resources. I should  like to stress the important statement made by the Director-General in his speech regard-  ing the need to strike a balance between the growth of the extra-budgetary resources and  those which are made available through the Regular Budget, It follows that the levy should  be increased in order to ensure the proper execution of an expanding operational programme,  Nor is this the only reason, As vital is the need to safeguard the autonomy of the Organi-  zation,
9.15 I have already made a passing reference to the International Commission on the Devel-  opment of Education. May I register the support of the Iranian delegation for the statements  about it made by the Director-General to the Executive Board, presented in document
17 C/57. The report is indeed a formidable document with structural-functional analysis  of the institution of education and a balance-sheet of its past performance. The report
8  visualizes, although indistinctly, new vistas of future democratization of education, The  Commission's proposals, of course, call for comments, which all delegations, including  mine, will try to make with the object of establishing clearer targets for the future of  education,
9,16 Mr, President, economic development in its final analysis is dependent on scientific  and technological progress. During the Second Development Decade, the higher stage of  economic development of Member States will require a higher rate of spending in the fields  of science and technology, In view of this, the Iranian delegation supports Unesco's con-  tinuation of assistance to the developing countries in drafting scientific policies and estab-  lishing scientific research organizations, as outlined in the respective chapters of docu-  ments 17 C/4 and 17 C/5. Our experience in scientific and technological development  indicates that one effective step is to call upon university scientists to provide a linkage  between university research centres and the economic secturs, notably industry and agri-  culture, by carrying out research programmes, which aim at solving technological problems,  This is not only intended to create a scientific spirit in universities and raise the academic  standards of higher education; it also helps to establish organic and systematic relation-  ships between a traditionally isolated institution and other sectors of the economy,
9,17 Mr, President, one of the obstacles to scientific and technological development is the  time-gap between scientific discoveries and their use in centres of education. While this  gap in the developed countries seems to be rather narrow, in the developing countries it is  unduly wide, Unesco can help to shorten the gap by establishing, on a highly-selective  basis, centres which could introduce and teach subjects related to the latest scientific dis-  coveries. The Iranian Government would be willing to participate in programmes of this  nature, In this connexion, I like to make a reference to the fact that most scientific centres  established by Unesco are located in advanced countries. Asian countries with their his-  torical background and potentials for scientific development deserve to be the site of some  of these centres. In the consideration of the Draft Medium-term Outline Plan, we propose  that this matter be given due attention.
9.18 Unesco's programme on Man and the Biosphere calls for interdisciplinary study and  research and seems to be a balanced programme. The Iranian delegation supports the re-  port adopted by the International Co-ordinating Council at its first meeting referred to in  document 17 C/64, Iran has already enacted several important laws aiming at conserving  natural resources and the protection of the environment, To cite such endeavours, the  Law on Nationalization of Waters and Forests could be mentioned as an example. The  Government of Iran has also provided for an annual award of $20,000 for the most out-  standing service in environmental conservation, Iran and the USSR have already engaged  in joint programmes aimed at depolluting the Caspian Sea, We are sure that within an  international framework of co-operation, regional and bilateral agreements are the most  effective measures for environmental conservation,
9.19 Ihave already made some references to the rôle of culture in the development of nations.  It is heartening that Unesco has taken a strong position on culture as a developmental factor.  We appreciate the efforts made in convening the Conference on Cultural Policies in 1970  and the Conference of Asian Cultural Ministers planned to be held in 1973.
9.20 It is also gratifying to note that Unesco is paying proper attention to the educational  rôle of the communication media. Is fact, in many instances the silent process of learning  through communication channels seems to be more effective than the formal methods of  classroom teaching, Given all the importance attached to culture and communication, we  have yet to study their true effects and to contemplate ways and means for their use in the  development of man, In view of the dynamic relationship between education and culture,  and the effectiveness of communication media in giving educational information to the public,  the Government of Iran has recently formed a co-ordination council composed of the Prime  Minister, as Chairman, and the Ministers responsible for different levels of education,  culture and communication,
9, 21 In spite of our deep appreciation of Unesco's achievements we regret to have to note  that in Unesco and its constituent units, the principle of cultural and geographical represen-  tation is not yet properly observed. The Iranian delegation wishes to endorse its support  for the views of the Group of 77 concerning the enlarging of the membership of the Executive  Board and strongly suggests that membership of the Board should not be considered as a  permanent prerogative, All Member States must also have an equal opportunity to repre-  sent their culture or region in the Secretariat, including management capacities, This  concluding statement, however, gives me additional reason to state that Iran will continue  strongly to support Unesco and wishes sincerely that it succeed in its mission, I thank you,  Mr, President.
10. ‘The PRESIDENT:  I thank Mr, Hossein Kazemzadeh. I now give the floor to Chief A, Y, Eke, Federal  Commissioner for Education of Nigeria and head of the delegation,
11,1 Mr. EKE (Nigeria):  Mr, President, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, the task of directing our deli-  berations, of guiding our thoughts, of guaranteeing satisfaction for each of us and then of  making sure that we arrive at mature and reasonable decisions is not going to be an easy  one for the President and all the 15 Vice-Presidents. They will require the goodwill of all  the delegations if they are to perform their duties properly. That is why I, on behalf of  my own delegation, hereby offer our goodwill and best wishes to all of them. My delegation  is confident that with the rich and enviable experience which the President has, and which  was amply shown when he presided over the session of the Third World Conference on Adult  Education held under three months ago in Tokyo, he will do a similarly fine job here and  that by his style of chairmanship, we all will be relieved of much of the tedium of a five-  week session,
11.2 It has become customary to describe each General Conference as being special, In  fact, Mr, President, three days ago you named this Conference the crossroads session.  But this session, with due deference to you, Sir, is much more than a crossroads affair,  What with China now happily one of us, this is an epoch-making session, more so as all the  greatest powers are here together, as humble and friendly as the weakest Member States;  all are equal and none wielding that vicicus weapon called the veto power. And as we all  enter into the second quarter-century in the life of this great Organization, we have become  bigger and stronger, and perhaps more fraternal, being members of a family devoted to  peaceful pursuits, And corresponding with our growth, there is an increase in the tasks  ahead of us especially now that the Second United Nations Development Decade has been  launched. Also, because of the changed circumstances, we now have much brighter hopes  of achieving world peace than we ever had at any time during the past two decades, I dare-  say that the rich prospects ahead demand that we redouble our efforts and that we do not  shirk the many challenges which still stare us in the fact, both individually and collectively.  For example, the Third World Conference on Adult Education, to which I referred only a  few moments ago, will bring about a new and increased impetus in adult education work,  Similarly, the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment held not so long ago  in Stockholm has opened up yet another field in which we all must do some gerious rethink-  ing and collaborate, if we are to continue to live a reasonably comfortable life on this planet,
11,3 These, then, Mr. President, are two of the many problems we will have to consider  at this session or hereafter, Some are, of course, exclusively within the competence of  Unesco while others cut across the operations of Unesco and other United Nations agencies,  To lay sound foundations, as the Director-General and his staff request of us in the many  papers before us, with a view to having new programmes designed to solve these problems,  is imperative. This, together with the implementation of ongoing projects will, of course,  make more and more demands on us, Everyone ought to be aware of that. We should bear  that in mind at all times whether our contributions are small or large. Not only that: we  must realize at all times that there will have to be continuous consultation and collaboration  not only between Member States of Unesco but also between Unesco and the United Nations
8  agencies, if, and I stress the word "if", duplications of effort are to be avoided and worth-  while resuits are to be achieved eventually, In that way, provided our approaches are ju-  dicious and conscientious, ladies and gentlemen, I am confident that we will find acceptable  solutions to many of the problems which plague mankind today,
11, 4 With your permission, Mr, President, I should like to touch briefly on one or two of  such problems, Many members will remember that at the sixteenth session of the General  Conference of Unesco, we focused our attention on topics connected with Man and the Bio-  sphere, the World Science Information System, International Commission on the Develop-  ment of Education, and on a few ongoing matters such as the International Hydrological  Decade and the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission, We did this, Mr, President,  if I remember rightly, in the belief that we must continue to explore new areas and I em-  phasize, new areas, likely to bring happiness to Man, We cannot ever reduce these areas;  they are bound to increase. It follows that the activities of Unesco are bound to increase  every biennium as we approach other barriers to Man's attainment of a happy and peaceful  world, Correspondingly our budget is bound to grow. For example, the explosive pojula-  tion growth noticeable everywhere today especially in the Third World, which results in  increases in the absolute number of illiterates in the world and in greater human misery,  is a cause of embarrassment to us all, and we cannot check that whatever the cause may  be, If we do not address ourselves more vigorously to its effective control, as well as the  control of all the disadvantages Man is exposed to, future generations will blame us for the  neglect, My delegation therefore calls on the present session of the General Conference to  review critically our performances in this as well as other areas and to devise new strate-  gies to ensure greater success,
11.5 The next problem I wish to call attention to, Mr. President, is of a different type. It  is now generally recognized that one way for Member States of this Organization to com-  municate effectively is through international conferences, It is hardly necessary to say  that my country, Nigeria, believes in this and supports all efforts to promote it, I will  never support curtailment of the number of conferences. But, Mr. President, we must  guard against the weaknesses of international conferences, the tendency to have plenty of  talk and ultimately little action, We must guard against this. One cause of it is timing,  We are all aware that it takes anything from one year or more to prepare properly for a  huge international conference, some six months or so to get its proceedings published,  perhaps another six months for national committees to study the proceedings, followed pos-  sibly by a further six months or more to get the recommendations implemented, if ever,  by each Member State. The time consumed is rather long and this, I fear, is one of the  reasons why some participants in international conferences feel they are useless and waste-  ful but that is merely clutching at a straw. We do hope that our Secretariat, into whose  plate we are accustomed to dishing unsavoury matters, will give serious consideration to  the problem, bearing in mind that since conferences cannot be avoided, we must continual-  ly devise satisfactory ways of obtaining optimum advantage from the recommendations and  decisions arising therefrom,
11,6 There are a few other problems I would wish to highlight. Because of limitation of  time, Mr, President, let me restrict myself to the one concerning the constant changes  taking place in our daily life in the modern world, Along the new countries of the world,  such as mine, there is today a vigorous debate as to what should be the rôle of education  in the modern society. In this connexion, the report of the International Commission on the  Development of Education released to us only a couple of weeks ago has come in the nick’  of time. It will enable all of us and I say all of us to consider a newer concept of zducation  relevant not only to the needs of our individual countries and to the tempo of modern life,  but also to the global nature of the commitments into which every Member nation of Unesco  has entered by being a Member. The emphasis in my statement, ladies and gentlemen, is  on the word global for no country, big or small, rich or poor, super-power or mini-power,  is any longer an island unto itself, It would be a pity if the older, or the more industrial-  ized, or the more sophisticated Member States deluded themselves into believing that they  have nothing to learn or gain from the Edgar Faure Report. That would be contrary to the  spirit of our Organization,
11,7 We have spoken in general terms of some matters of common interest, Let me now  turn to some Nigerian domestic matters, and in so doing merely refer to them in barest  outline. I am'glad to say that we in Nigeria have tried in the past biennium to implement  the recommendations of Unesco, We have taken positive action on many recommendations,  inclading the Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Ex-  port and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property adopted at the sixteenth session of the  General Conference of Unesco and our instrument of accession has been deposited. The  recommendation concerning the Standardization of Library Statistics is now being consi-  dered by my Government, and its decision will be communicated to Unesco in due course,  We are glad also, Mr, President, to say that we have already reorganized our National  Commission and strengthened its central office, and this has enabled us to participate more  effectively in the work of Unesco, In turn, we have been able to lend a helping hand to  Unesco in organizing some expert meetings as well as regional meetings, and we sincerely  hope to contribute more in this direction in the next biennium,
11. 8 Earlier I referred to one of the consequences of the population explosion, Well,  Mr, President, the democratization of access to education is being given serious considera-  tion in my own country, and in this connexion, may I say that the Edgar Faure Report is  most welcome. We will take cognizance of its views, especially as the Federal Govern-  ment is considering the early introduction of a universal primary education and is already  refashioning other levels of education as well, In short, Nigeria is now on the threshold  of an educational revolution, which will be based on modern concepts and will be global in  outlook.
11,9 Let me seize this opportunity, Mr, President, to inform all Member States that the  World Festival of Black Arts and Culture, the second in this series, mark you, will be  held in Lagos, Nigeria, in September 1974, The African Group, whose current President  I am, proposes to request Unesco to open the Festival, and to provide the patronage and  the sort of assistance they gave to the festival held in Dakar, Senegal, in 1966, I assure  you, ladies and gentlemen, that special invitations will be extended to all of you in due  course, and I hope that you will accept them.
11,10 Having disposed of that brief account of the situation in my country, I should like to  say, in respect of the policy debate on the budget, that Nigeria welcomes and supports in  principle the proposals outlined so beautifully in documents 17 C/4 and 17 C/5, In the ap-  propriate Commissions, we shall point out minor flaws therein, At this plenary session  we would restrict ourselves to only two matters relevant to the budget debate, The first  is important, though of less consequence than the second, To begin with, we understand  that it is the usual practice of Unesco to make subventions available to non-governmental  organizations fo carry out part of the programmes upon which the General Conference has  reached agreement. We have heard it said also, and we truly believe it, that the type of  programme laid down for developing countries would be different from what they often are,  if members of non-governmental organizations in the recipient developing countries had a  greater say at the planning stage of these programmes, I believe it because I myself have  seen this in action, The time has come, Mr, President, when more opportunity should be  given to non-governmental organizations in developing countries to make substantial con-  tributions to the programmes meant for those countries. And it is also on these grounds  that we support the proposal for decentralization of activities so as to give a filip to local  scientific communities, as recommended in the two documents dealing with the budget.  And, ladies and gentlemen, in respect of the size of the budget, whenever you decentralize  you must not forget that the budget is likely to grow higher, When we demand decentrali-  zation we must not then turn round later and say that the budget is too big; that would be  illogical.
11,11 I crave your indulgence, Mr, President, to proceed to the second but more impor-  tant matter, being the heart and soul of the policy debate, But before doing so, let me give  first the background against which the views I am about to express should be considered.  Members will remember with pleasure how happy we all were in this very forum on the
8  occasion of the celebration of the 25th Anniversary of Unesco, In his message to us,  Mr. President, the Prime Minister of your country, assured us that "the Japanese nation  confirms in this 'memorablé year its intention to do its utmost to contribute to the develop-  ment of Unesco's activities', In other words, Japan would not support a reduction either  in {he number or in the quality of the activities of Unesco, That is the implication as far  as I am concerned. We heard, also with joy, the address given by the personal represen-  tative of the President of the United States of America, In a beautiful speech, Mr, John  W, Warner, expressing the views of the United States, said inter alia:  "Many of our citizens have been actively engaged in plenning, advising and carrying out  various aspects of Unesco's world-wide program. Based on this experience we know  that Unesco is providing numerous valuable services and is engaged in many programs  of lasting merit, dealing with such real and urgent problems as development and train-  ing of human resources, protection of the human environment, population explosion,  and a newly-acute problem which threatens a growing number of societies - the menace  of drug addiction. "
11.12 In reaffirming the faith of the Government of the United States in Unesco, Mr, Warner  made the following three categorical statements well received by us on the occasion: first,  that the United States gains as much as it gives through the inter-cultural exchange Unesco  provides; secondly, that the United States is convinced that a strong and viable Unesco is  essential to effective international co-operation in education, science and culture; and,  lastly, that along with other nations, the United States is searching for measures to make  Unesco more effective and more responsive to the needs of today. Please note the words  "more effective and responsive to the needs of today",
11,13 You may recollect, Mr, President, that the personal representative of the Chair-  man of the Praesidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR was equally reassuring of the  goodwill of his country and its enthusiasm for the promotion of Unesco, Endinghis address  here on that occasion, Mr, G,S, Dzotsenidze laid emphasis on the following statement  which, of course, is an English translation of his actual words:  "...we wish to assure the distinguished representatives of other countries present here  today that the Soviet Union will continue to advocate the further democratization of  Jnesco, improvement of its programme and greater efficiency in its activities, to  advocate that the Organization become truly universal in character and an instrument  of peace and international co-operation, on the basis of equality of rights in the fields  of science, culture and education, "'  When all speeches and felicitations which followed were ended, ladies and gentlemen, you  will remember clearly that all of us Member States present unanimously rededicated our-  selves to the noble objectives of Unesco when we adopted a resounding resolution.
11,14 It is in the light of the solemn resolution, which you and I adopted only a year ago  and the moral implication of that resolution that I suggest, Mr. President, that the seven-  teenth session of the General Conference should consider the draft plans and proposed bud-  gets contained in the red and blue documents circulated to all and listed on our agenda as  documents 17 C/4 and 17 C/5. My own delegation observes that while there are about  forty draft resolutions by Member States proposing increases in the draft budget, there  are one or two calling for substantial reductions. Naturally, these two tend to arrest atten-  tion and one involuntarily responds to them. But what does one find? I ask again, ladies  and gentlemen, what does one find on looking carefully at those two draft resolutions? I  put it to you, Mr, President, that if the draft budget is prepared to reflect a total growth  rate of only 4. 8 per cent over and above the recosted value of the previous budget, one  really is not sure of the intention of a proposal by some Member States that that draft bud-  get be reduced by as much as 12 per cent, Let me repeat what I have said because it is  very fundamental to my address. I say, Sir, that if the draft budget is prepared to reflect  a total growth rate of only 4, 8 per cent above the recosted value of the previous budget,
218   then one is really not sure of the intention of a proposal to reduce that draft budget by as  much as 12 per cent, Would it not lead to a substantial reduction, that is if such a propo-  sal was accepted, or in fact acceptable? Would it not lead to a substantial reduction in the  proposed activities of Unesco, the sequestration of some of its staff, as well as the aban-  donment of some of its current policies and ongoing projec.s? Is that not likely to be the  consequence of the adoption of that sort of proposal, and could that not probably be the  commencement of the gradual but painful atrophy of Unesco? These are fundamental ques-  tions which I respectfully ask you, Mr, President, to put to all Member States,
11,15 Again, Mr, President, a resolution by some other respectable Member States as-  serts the principle that the average rate for the absolute growth of Unesco's budget should  not exceed the average annual rate of growth of the average of national incomes of all Mem-  ber States, Although this is a long statement the meaning is clear and the principle is un-  objectionable, If the resolution does not embody any convincing evidence that the budget  has exceeded the average rate of growth of the average national incomes of the Member  States, if there is no evidence that it has done so, then would one not doubt the objectivity  of the resolution when it asks for a reduction in administrative expenditure, when it asks  for a reduction in the number and quality of staff, when it asks for abandonment of a num-  ber of publications, and also advocates that the expansion of building facilities be ‘hot  undertaken, I would suggest, Mr. President, if you permit me to say so, that to sustain’  allegations of extravagance, of redundancies, of useless output, in a big and important  organization like ours facts and figures based on « study in depth or an objective inquiry  are usually necessary, otherwise the allegations are purely hypothetical, Well there is  no point in wasting words; the import of what I have said, I think, is clear.
11,16 In conclusion, Mr, President, the vital point my delegation wishes to make is that  Unesco is a fraternity of faith, that is what Unesco is, whose members should regard them-  selves as their brother's keeper. Unless each and everyone of us realizes that he is his  brother's keeper, we will tend to go astray occasionally, even if unintentionally. My dele-  gation's appeal is directed to those Member States, like the United States of America, like  the USSR, like our new member, China, like the President's country, Japan, like the United  Kingdom, whose delegate spoke very forcefully yesterday, like the Federal Republic of  Germany, like our host country France, because of their more favourable position. These  are the Member States that are bearing, or should be bearing, a much heavier burden than  others. It is to them that I am making a plea, a sincere plea with no animosity, with no  prejudice, We appeal to them, ladies and gentlemen, as members of the human family,  not to abandon or to ignore their moral obligations to the world, It is on that basis that I  make my appeal, for we are all witnesses to the fact that the march of civilization and the  advancement of mankind, regardless of the era, regardless of the clime and even régard-  less of the land, have been due to those individuals or groups endowed by nature with one  talent or another or with some material resources, who did not hesitate to share "it with  their fellow-men, Let all those of us who have, give freely and ungrudgingly for the com-  mon good, and let them not ask for or expect an immediate recompense. That, we hold,  is the real philosophy of Unesco put in a nutshell, a philosophy which makes our great  Organization a true fraternity.
11, 17° For allowing me to speak out and also for listening so patiently, I am greatly in-  debted to you, Mr. President, And to all of you, ladies and gentlemen - worthy members  of our fraternity - I say thank you,
12, The PRESIDENT:  I thank Chief Eke for his statement, I now request H, E, Mr, Ivan Rohal'-Ilkiv, Vice-  Minister of Foreign Affairs of Czechoslovakia, to take the floor,
13.1 TI"ocnoaud POXAJID-HITKHB (UexocnosakKHa):  YraxaeMblH rOCMOAHH Ilpeacegarens. Paspeunte MHE OT HM@HH YeXOCHOBAUKOH Aere-  TAUHHK H OT C66H JIHYHO NOBAPABHTB Bac C H36paHHeM B NpeacegaTerH CeMHAgUAaTOÏ CECCHH  T'eHeparsHoï KoH®epeHuHH. Mp y6exJeHs, YTO MOA BallHM DPYKOBOLCTBOM HAM yAacTca obcy-
8  AMTH BCE IIYHKThl NOBECTKM AHA H AOCTHTHYTb HaJexauero pelleHHs CTOAWMX nepen Hamu  BOFNPOCOB.
13.2 CemHaguaTaa ceccHa T'exe panb HOM KOH EpeHLHH OCYMECTB/IAETCA Ue pes ro locae  TOro, Kak MB B 3TOM 3are TOPXECTBEHHO OTMeuasd 25-10 I'ONOBUHHY OCHOBAHHA Hamed  OprannwsauyrH, [leno kacCaslocs He CTOJbKO MPAS3NHOBAHHA, CKONbKO PaCCMOTDEHMS Jel CTBRHHO-  CTH H XH3HE€HHOCTH TeX MNpHHIHNOB, HA KOTOPbIX Gbl/1H ocHoBaH OOH H DHECKO, H oueHkH  Bceñ pañor»I Hamed OpraxH3alxH, KpHTepHeMm Aaa OIEHKH BCEX pe3ynsTaToB OBO TO, Kak  IOHECKO B cBoeil npakrHuecKOË JeATENbHOCTH OCYMECTBIAET MPHHLHME, SAKPEIVICHHRIE B  YcraBe, r.e, kak OpraHH3alH4 COREÂCTBYET COXpaHeHKID MHpa H 6€30MaCHOCTH B MHpe IyTeM  YKPEILIEHHH COTPYAHHYCCTBA ME XAY HAPOJAMU MPU NOMOUM OGPASOBAHHA, HAYKKM H KYALTYpH,  Hrorn pesylbraTos pa6oTs OHECKO 3a uerBepTs Beka MOKAILLBAOT, YTO UMeeTcs pHA no-  JIOXKHUTeJIBHbIX, HO TaKXe H OTPHLATE/bHBIX YEPT, B 3ABHCHMOCTH OT TOTO, MJC, Ha KakKoi CTO-  poHe Crossa Hama OpraHusauH# B MpPONJOM, B MPOTHBOCTOHHHH CHJI Mporpecca H MHpa C CH-  JaMH perpecca H BOHHEI.
13.3 IlonoxeHWe, MpH KOTOPOM Mel B TOM rojy COÔparHCb, OCTA@TCA B MeXAyHapoIHbIX  OTHOUNEHUAX BechbMa CJ/IOXHBIM H MPOTHBOPEUMBLHIM; pasBHTHE B JIydllyld CTOPOHY, HECMOT-  pA Ha MOZA€PXKY NPOTpeCCHBHBIX CHI MHpa, TOJBKO C TPYAOM npobuBaeT ce6e nyrb. I[IpHHuMN  MHPHOI'O COCYIILECTBOBAHH5A TOCYAAPCTB C Ppas/IHYHBIM OOWEeCTBEeHHBIM CTPOEeM, MOC/E /OBATE/b-  HO TIPHMEH#EMbIH COBETCKHM COID30M - B TeueHue ero 50-neTHer0 CyueCTROBAHHS - H ApyrH-  MH COIHA/IHCTHYECKHMH CTPaHAMH, CTAHOBHTCH Bee Gosee NpHTATraTeNbHOH CHIOË B OTHOUE-  HUAX MexAy TOCYApoTBaMH; STOT NPUHUUN OTREUAGT HALE XAAM H YaRHUAM GOJNbLIHHCTRA HA-  pOJOB BCEI'O MHpa, T.e. COSJAHHIO MHPHbiX YCIOBHHÀ ZV1H XH3HK HblHeWHero H 6yayuero noko-  nenud. Ho sTUM HañexJaM, TOCMOJAHH IlpeacexaTesrb, eXeAHEBHO YTpoxanr GOMGapAHpoBKH,  Hana/IrM BO BseTHaMe H MOCTORHHO TICDIHÜ ouar BOÜRbI HA BAHXHEM BocToke,
13.4 Ilpu HelHewHeM MOJNOXEHHH Hama OpraHusauus HOJXKHa MNOCIIEJOBATENLHO GOPOTECH  MNpoOTHB BCEX CTAPbIX H HOBbIX POPM KOJIOHHWA/IH3Ma H NpoTHB Bcex DopM pacHsMa. Mel BCe  XOPOIO IMOMHHM, KaKHe yxXacChl COBepilal pacH3M B Xoge BTopol MHpoBOñ BOÏH»bI H MH 3HaeM,  Ha YTO OH Elle cnocobeH Tam, I'le eMy MpeJoCTaB/IIAETCA XOTB Ma)leÂmHA Npocrop ana 6esHa-  KasaHKbIX JeÂcTBH#., IIOSTOMY Mb NPOHONXAaEM CUHTATL G0Opp6y IOHEC KO nporue anapreuaa,  CHOHH3Ma, famusma H Apyrux DopM pacHCTCKHX TeOpuÂ H NpaKTHKH aKTyanbHOM sagaueñ. Mel  MONXKHBI MOC/EAOBATE/BHO MPOBOAHTL B XH3Hb [OCTAHOBJIEHHS, KOTOPRE yXeE OBIJH MpPHHATEI B  TpexHHX pesorioLHAX Wik 6yAyT OpUuATH B TEX pesoriouHAaX, KOTOPRE B STOË OGHACTH NpeA-  CTABJAIOTCH Halle CeCCHH ceñuac.
13.6 Espona, B cepaue KOTOpoñ HaxoauTes UexocoBaKHA, ceHuac nepexusaeT OAHH H3  Han6osmee IMpoxONXHTENBHEIX IMEpHONOB 6e3 BOËH. DTC NOnNOxHTerbHOe HanpaBreHHe Janee  MOAKPEIAIOT TAKHE AKeÜCTBHA, KaK paTH®HKalHA JoroBopoB MexAy ®PI' u CCCP u mexay  ®PT H Monbmeñ, Cornauenne YeTsipex gepxas no 3anagHoMy BeprnHy K HacTynanmee ocy-  uecras1eHne O6BujeeBporeHcKOrO COBEMAHHA MO BonpocaM 6€30NaCHOCTH H COTPYAHUUECTBA H  T.A, 51 XoTen 6b CHOBA MOJUEPKHYTB, KAK MbI 3TO yXe CHEJANH B OTBeTe D'eHeparibHOMY AH-  pekropy OHECKO Ha ero Hory o noarotoBke O6meerporeñckKoro COR@IMAHHA [0 BONpPOCAM  GesonacHOCTH H COTPyAHHYECTBA, UTO [lpamckas jJeksapalusa rocyjapCTB-y4aCTHUKOB Bap-  IABCKOTO JOTOBOPA MOKA3bIBACT pearbHbÂ NYTh K JOCTUXEHHD LErreñ, KOTOPhE CTABHT Mepes  co6oÂ copeuauxne, H uTo ycrnex Kon®epeHLuH yYMHOXHT BO3MOXHOCTH pocra GHarococTogHHa,  KYJIBTYPbI H BCECTOPOHHETO COTPYAHHYECTBA EBPporIeHCKHX HAporoB.
13.7 Co Bpemeux nocsegueñ D'eHeparbHOÏ KoHPEpeHLHH BAXHBIM COOBITHEM SIBLE TCS MNPOHC-  XOAsllHe neperoBopsi Me KAY OGOHMA TEPMAHCKHMH TOCyHaPpCTBAMH. Mel HajeeMcs, UTO  npouecc HOPMA/IH3ALHH OTHONEHHHÉ MexXIy 9THMH POCYAAPCTBAMH GyneT JoBeneH LO BCEX €T0  JIOTMYECKHX pe3ynbTaToB H YTO l'IP cCTaHeT B Onnxañuee BpeMf NOJHONPABHLIM YNCHOM Ha-  weil Opranusauun. Yexocnopankas JeslerauWs He pas rOBOpHJa Ha aToM dopyMe O sHayeHHH  H BAXHOCTH STOTO mara Jy AOCTHXEeHHs ÿHHBEPCA/IBHOCTH Halell OpraHH3aUHH H And ManbHeñ-
220   mero pasBHTHA COTpyAHHYecTBa B 06/1aCTH O6pasoBaHHA, HayKH H Ky/IbTyYpH B EBpone. I'oas  CO3MAAHHA H AeATeNLHOCTH Hamed OpraHHS3aL{HH ObL1H HENETKHMH, MOSTOMy IOHECKO u B 6y-  AymeM HE JONXHA. CHHXATb CBOGH OTBETOTBEHHOCTH H YMEHbIAaTb YCHIHA, HaNpaneHHbLEe Ha  MHPHOE COTPYAHHYECTBO, Kak 06 STOM CBHAETENbCTBYIOT Pe3ynhTaTH pAja BAXHAIX perxo-  HA/JIbHBIX H BCEMHpHaIX KoH®|epeHuHä OHECKO, Mul eme Joiaro Gyaem B Hameï pabore H B Ha-  IIHX MPOrpaMMax HCXOAHTb H3 MOJOXHT@AbHbIX pesyJBTATOR H HHHUHATHBH KOHepeuuuit, co-  CTOAUHXCH B BeHeyHH, XesBCHHKH K TOKHO. ONEIT pasBHTHA H JesTe/ILHOCTH Hamed OpraHu-  Sal[HH HONXEH Hac 3aACTABJATb HCKATL BCE Gonee ad PekTHBHEIe H ACÉCTBEHHBE METOAB JUIN  AOCTHXEHHA ee Lene, ’
13.8 Bceobuum gBJEHHEM AJA Pa3BHTHA COBpeMEHHOTO obmecTBa ABAAETCH ToT dakr, YTO  BCA ueJloBeyecCKas AEATENBHOCTL Tak HJIH MHaye TECHO CBSSAHA C JOCTHXEHHHMH HAYKH  H TEXHHKH. [IosTOMY B3aHMOOTHOIEHHST MEXJAY HaykoH H o6pazsoBaHHEM H BO3pacTaw las porb  HayKH NIPHBOJAAT K ECTECTBEHHOMY NpPH3HAHHD NPUOPUTETA HAYKH H OÔpaASOBAHHA B porpaMme  WHECKO.
13.9 “ro kacaercs o6meil HanpaBeHHOCTH AeSATENBHOCTH Hamed OpraHH3ayHH B OGNACTH  obpasoBanus Ha "o6HOBNeHHe o6pasoBanus" B 6On1ee MHPOKOM CMBIC/E CHOBA, - 4EXOCAO-  Baukas AeJerauHAa BHAHT B OTOR HarMNpaBleHHOCTH MNpexIe BCEro HEOÔXOJHMOCTL OCYMECTBAE-  HHS KaueCTBeHHHX pedopMm B obsacTH OGPA3OBAHHA, Y1YYMEHHA KOOPAHHALIHH H BHYTpeHHeñ  crpykrypst OHECKO B aT0H 06/1acTH H HEOÔXOJHMOCTE CKOPeÂMETro MNPHMEHEHHA PesYALTATOB  NeJarorHueckoï TeopHH Ha npakTHke H Gonbuee yyuacTrue MHECKO B O61acTH BeICMETO obpa-
3OBAHH#. B sTOËk CBA3H MO3BO/IBTE MHE HAMOMHHTB, 4TO € 5 no 11 HIDHA 1972 r. B Mpare co-  crosinace KoH®epeHyHH MHHHCTPOB 06pasosaHHä Consa CoBerckux CounaructhueckHx Pec-  HyOAUK, Hapoanoi Pecny6auku Bonrapru, Benrepcxoï Hapoxnoï Pechny61ukH, JemoxpaTHue-  ckoñ Pecny61aukH BberHam, D'epmanckoñ Iemoxparnueckoï Pecny6auku, Ky6s, MoHronbc-  koh Hapognoï Pecny61HKH, PyMsIHHH H Yexocnonauxoñ Counannctuueckoli Pecny6anky, Ko-  Topas ConeñcrBoBaia yrAyÔIIeHHD H HHTEHCHOUKAUHH COTPYAHHYECTBA MEXAY YNOMSHYThIMH  CTPAHAMH B obnacTH O6pasoBaHHs.
06 OKOHYAHHH CPeJHHX, CpeJHMX CNEUHAallbHEX H BhICIIHX y4eGHBX BaBEHEeHHÂ H JOKYMEHTOB O  NpHCBOËHHH YVCHEX 3BaHuil Hu CreneHeñ", KondepeHUHs BHCTYNHIA TaKXe B MNOFAPXKy MHp-  HOTO BO33BaHHA CTapHHHOrO JIpaxckoro Kaprosa yHHBEpcHTeTa k 584 yHHBepCHTETAM H BblC-  muM y4VeOHsIM 3aBelienHsaM B EBpone. Ilpeanonaraercd, 4To BCTpeua npeïcranurereñ sTHx  yueÔHeIX 3aBegeHHH cocTouTca B [Ipare C NpCrpamMOH OUeHKH pOJIM H MOJNOXEHHA BHCUHX yue6-  HbIX 3ABE AeHHH B obmecTBe H OCO60 NPH BOCNHTAHHH MOJONEXH.
13.12 l'Ocnogux IlpeacexaTers. Paspeuxre MHe yKa3aTb B OTHOW €HHUH o6pasosaHw4a HU  KyJIBTYPbI HA OJHY YEPTY, ACHO NPOSBUBIIYI CHA Kak Ha TperbeHñ BceMHpHOH koHPepeHLUH MO 06-  pasoBaHHM B3poOCJbIX, cocrosaBmeics B TOKHO, Tak H Ha MexXIpaBHT@JIBCTBEHHOH KOHpepeH~  LIMK O enponeäckKoH KynrTYpPHOR MOJNHTHKE B XenbCHHKH. Jleno kacaercs 6oJiee HHTEHCHBHOFO  OCYILECTBIIEHHS H MPpOHKKHOBEHH#A OGPASOBAHHA, NMO/Ny4YaeMoro B TEUEHHE BCell XHS3HH, B Ha-  UHOHAJIBHYHO KyJIBTypHyD MOJNHTHKY, GTO MOHHMaHHe, chopMynupoBaHHOe JieHHHHIM, ABTAËTCA  TaKXe OCHOBOH JVIA yCHUNUA BCEX COUHAJIHCTHUECKHX TOCYFAPCTB, a CIE AJOBATENBHO H UCCP, B  obnacTH BOCNHTAHHA H O6pasoBaHHs. [Io MHEHHIO YexocHoBauKoñ nerreraumxx, 6p10 651 omn6KOË,  ECJIH Os1 MBL HA CEMHAYUATOË CECCHH He YAeNA/M JOCTATOYHOTO BHHMAaHMA pesyIbTaTaM obeux  KonGepeHunñ. J noxaran, uTo ceMHaauaTtasa ceccua D'eneparbHoÂ KoH®epeHuHH gONXxHa Gba  Gb! IIPHHATB HEMEJVICHHEE MEPsl MO MEpeHeCceHHD pealHsauxH pesyJIbTaTOB KOHDe peHuHH B  XesbcHHKH H TOKHO NpaMO B pabouyio NporpamMy OpraHHsaalHH, MOJO6HO TOMy, Kak 3TO 651-  jo B 1970 roay B CB53H C KoHdepeHyxeï B Bexeunu,
13, 13 O porn HaUHOHAJBHOK KYJBTYPbl B HCTOPHH BCEX HAPOJOB MHpa yxe 6LI10 MHOTO CKa™
3aHO H Hanucano. Mil 3HaeM, KaKOi MNOJAepxxoÂ B HX HayHOHaïbHO-OCBOGOFHTE/BHOÏ  Gopp6e GObI1W H ABJIAK TCA HALUHOHANBHAR KY/NBTYpa H MporpeCcHBHHE HALJHOHA/IBHBE TPAZHUHH,  Mur CYHTaeM MYAPOH KyAbTYPHYD MOJNHTHKY FOCYFAPCTR, MONNEPKHBAINUYO HapogHoe xynor  XECTBEHHOË TBOPHECTBO, HeCKOABKO HeJe/ib TOMY Ha3aÆA Mbl HM@JH BOSMOXHOCTh ybeAUTbCA  B TOM, KaKHM: HeHCCAKAeMbIM H aKTyajlbHbHIM HBIHETCA 9TOT HCTOUHHK Ha Tperreñ MexayHa-  POJHOH BkICTABKE HAHBHOTO HCKyCCTEBA B BparucsaBe.
13.14 Hama OpratHhaauxs He pas Hrpasña MOJNOXHT@/IBHYI POJIE B MpoZBHXEHHH MA/IO H3BECT7  HbIX KYJABTYPHHX UEHHOCTEH  pasHbX HAapogoB, MOFaBAHeMsIX Ha NpoOTAXeHHH BEKOB, 51  yBexseH, dro npoekT pesoniouux CCCP o "Mepax No coxpateHHD H 3aWMUTE HAMHOHANbHbIX  KyNbTYP, CYHTAIOIHXCA OÉTEKTHBHOH OCHOBOH KyJIBTYPHOTO pasBHTHA HeJOBEVeCTBA, H pas”  BHTHO Me XAYHApoFHEIX OTHOIEHHÉ B OGNACTH KYJNBTYpH" MOGHAHIyET Hay OpraHnsauHio Ha  nansHeäuxe yCHJIMA B STOM HalipaBreHux.
13.15 B orHonreHHH Tia NporpaMMs! Hamel OpraHksauuH, KaCal0I1HXC# ECT@CTBEHHbIX H  TOYHBIX HAyK, # MOS3BONID cefe HANOMHHTE, YTO YEXOCIHOBAUKax xejeralds Gblla oJHOË H3  TeX, KOTOPRE NOIAEPKHBANH sty HalpaseHHocrs OHECKO, uMes B BHAY, YTO MeEXAYHapoa-  HOE COTpYAHMUYECTBO COCPEAOTOMHTCSA HA peueHuH HECKONbBKHX KIIOUEGBhX HAYYHEX NPOTpPaMM.  Mory sasepHrb Bac, rOCNOAHH I[IpeicefaTenh, 4TO YEXOCIOBAUKHE CNELHANHCTE H y4eHble  YAGHAOT NOATOTOBKE H peaansanuu nporpaMme DHECKO xonxHoe BHHMAHHE H YTO CBOHM  BKJIa OM OHH HAM@peHs! H BINP@ZAb KAK MOXHO Gonblie COJEHCTBOBATL UX pearHsauHn.
13.16 BHOBB BRIUYEHHAA ME XAYHAPOAHAN NMpPOrpaMMa reoJOorHYeCKOÏ KOpperauHH NONbBIy-  ercs Cpejd Hauux CIELHANHCTOB OCOÔLIM BHHMAHHEM HE TOJBKO MOTOMY, YTO OHH Obl71H  ee HHHIHATOPAMH, HO TaAKXE H NOTOMY, YTO Halle TOCYAApCTBO, KAK BHYTPHKOHTHHEHTA/Nb-  Hag CTpaHa, C BECLMA CHOXHBIM T'EONOTHYECKHM MOCTPOGHHEM, TE pexOJAUMM B COC@JHHE  CTpaHsl, 3aMHTEPECOBAHA HW HyXJaeTCH B MeX/yHapogHoM COTpyAHHYECTBE MpH AanpHeäuex  paaBeAKe H HCIMOJb3OBAHHH MPHPOZHEIX PpeCcypcos.
13.17 O6 yyacTHH H BKJIIOYEHHH YEXOCIOBALKHX CINEUHANKCTOB B MEXNPaBHTENLCTBEHHYO  nporpaMmy '"Uenosek u Gnochepa" Takxe He HaJO MHOTO TOBOPHTh, TaK Kak HayyHble H  MpakTHYecKHe pe3ybTaTh 9TOR NPOTpaMMEI Ins Bcero obujecTBa BAA TCA GECCIMOPHEIMH.  MeI COTJHACHb TakXe C TEM, YTO COJEPKAHHE MPOTPAMMEI GbIIO0 NpaBHALHO COKpalleHO, STO  MNpHBEZET K €CTECTBEHHOH KOHLC€HTPAUHH HA BaxXHeHMUX MpoekKTax H Ha MX MOCHENOBAT@NBHOÂ
4H GsicTpeñueH peanuaanun. Ho sT0 He 3HAUMT, UTO Mb He GyreM MONJEPpXHBATL BKJTOUEHHE  ApyTrHX MpoeKTOB B 9TY NpOrpaMMy, €CjiH OHU 6ynyT Yenecoo6pasHh,
13.19 MexAyHapollHOe Hay4yHOe, a TaKXe H TeXHMUECKOe COTPYAHHYECTBO CCÂYAC HEBO3MOX-  Hbl 6e3 rmnocnegoBaTeNBHOTO COTPYAHHUYECTBA B CO3JaHHM, XPpAHEHHH, M3bICKHBaAHHUH H  pacrpocrpaHeHHH HayYHO# H TEXHHYCCKOÏ unPopmauuu. IIOSTOMY MBI MpHBETCTBYEM YCHIUS  IOHECKO H ApyrHX MeXAyHapOoAHbX OpraHuaauuil, HanpasaeuHsle HA TO, YTOÔHI PH NOMOMU  npoekra OHHCHCT COSAaBATR NPC ANOChIIKH ANS CHCTEMATHYECKOTO Pa3BHTHA TAKOI'O Me XIY~  HaAporHoro COTpyAHHYuecTBa. Mei NOHHMAEM cCHCTeMy IOHHUCHUCT Ha nepBoM sTane kak Uesre-  COOÔpas3Ho KOOPAMHUDOBAHHYIO COBOKYNHOCTBb METOJOB H yCHYr, KOTOpHE TOCYJAPCTBA MOTYT |  Apyr Apyry NpegocTaBAANTb.
13.20 Mb pañbl OTMETHTL TaKXe BK/aJ Hallero TOCYAAPpCTBA B A8/0 MpeNOCTABIEHHA MOMOUH  CNHelJHAïlHCTaM | pasBHBaDI{HXC# CTpaH MpH MOBHUCHHH HX KBanHdukauuu B Dopme acnu-  paHTypeI H CMElHA/IHSAUKH. 3a HCTEKIHE ABa roja C OYEHb XOPOINHMH pesylbTaTaMH TphÔIH-  BHT@JMbHO 50 cneyHanHCTOB 3aKOHUMWIM UK 3AKOHYAT ACMHPAHTCKHE Kypcsl B OGIACTH THAPONO-  THM, AHAlïlHTHUWECKOÏ XHMHH, MHKpoGHONOrHH, NOATOTOBKH MNpermogaBaTesreñ cpelHUX CeJIbCKO™  XO3HÉCTBEHHHIX WKOA H MAKPOMOJEKy/HPpHOH XHMHH. 51 pa 3aHBHTb O TOTOBHOCTH Hallero
8  MNpaBHTes1bCTBA OPraHHS3OBATb B COTpyAHHYUeCTBe C IOHECKO aTH KypCe He TOARKO B GyAyuem  ABYX/IeTHH, HO H B QarbHeÂmeñ neponekrnuse. HamH cneuHaaHCTs aBTHBHO yYMACTBOBANH B 06-  CYXACHHH BOIMPOCOB, KaCawIUXCA YAYUWEHHS KayeCTBa ACMNHPAHTYPLI H NOC/e YHHBEPCHTE TC  KHX KypCOB, a TaKxe MNpHMEHEHHA H HCMONL3OBAHHA CMELHANUCTOB, OKOHYHBMMUX 3TH KypChl  B co6CTBEHHOR CTpaHe. Mb! NPHBETCTBYEM, 4YTO STHMH BOMNpOCAaMH ByaeT saHHMaTLCA npen-  CTOAUjEE BEHCKOE COBEmaHHe AHPEKTOPOB Me XAyHa poZHsIX NOCNEeYHHBEPCHTETCKHX KypcoB  IOHECKO 8 Espone.
1972 rox MexnyHapomH5M TOHOM KHHTH B TOM CMbICIE, 4YT06bl KHHTA HE TOJIBKO COX-  paHWña, HO H YCH/IHJA CBOE BJIHAHHE B COCTOAHHH C APyYTHMH CpeACTBaMHM MaccoBol uhdop-  MALHH, H 4To6bl, GyAYYH HHCTPYMB:.TOM MNPHOÔPETEHHA H OGÔYYEHHH HOBBIM 3HAHMAM, CTa/A  BaXHBIM HHCTPYMEHTOM G0pbOk1 3. MHP H BSaHMOMOHHMaHHe MexJy BCEMH HApoJaMmH 3eMHO-  ro mapa.
13.22 YBaxaeMblH Tocnoans Ilpe AceHaTerb, rocnoauH L'eneparbHblä JHpeKTOD, yBaxae-  Mble AMereraTe. PazpemuTe MHe MNpHCO@ JHHHTBCH K TEM CIOBAM OLEHKH, KOTOPLE GBH
13.23 Ho a coxasleio, rOCMOJHH IIpeAcexaTerb, UTO He HCMONHHJHCh HAXCXABI, BbipaXeH-  Hble Ha MpOLIOM 3acelaHHH YeXOC/OBAUKOH Aenerauxeñ, YTr00» oGCyxAeHWe mecTHIeTHeH  NPpOrpaMMHOÏ nepcMeKTHBEI CTANO HMMYABCOM Auf CTaÔHWIIHSALHH pocra 6n4xeTa H ero KOH-  VeHTPALHK Ha MPEHMYMECTBEHHbIE OGJACTH MNPOTPAMMEI.
13.24 HMeHHo Hawa Jejerauns BMECTÉ ¢ APYrHMH CHOPpMyAHPOBANA MBICAB, UTO GO AXET  OpraHnsaunxH He  JOJIXeH noBplIaTECA ObICTPEE, YEM CpPejHHH pocT HAUHOHA/BHOIO AO-  X0Jlla TOCYAAPCTB-YJICHOB, BHOCAWHX B GI0AXET B3HOCEI,
13.25 À XOTEA 6p NOAYEPKHYTH, YTO Hama Aejeraunsa GyaeT H BApeNb MOZAEPXHBATL BCE  NpemloxeHHA, LelbD KOTOpHX OyZXeT MOBLINIEHHE MOJIESHOË JEATENBHOCTH IOHECKO H  KoTOopsIe GyayT ykpennaTe aBTOpHTeTr DHECKO. Ho y Hac Men TCA CepbesHhe ONACeHHA,  YTO TeMmnpl pocra 60 ,1xeTa Ha npejcToAlee ABYyXJeTHE CIHIKOM ÉbICTPLI H BBICOKH H YTO Ye-  XOCNOBAYKAN AenerauHa He MOXET C 3THM COTJIaCHTHCA.
13.26 Mn CYUHTA@M OÉOCHOBAHHOH TOUKy 3PpeHHAH, YTOÔLI B OÔLIEM GoaxeTe OpraHH3aLHH  aJMHHHCTPATHBHbIE pacxXogsl He HpesblIasH ONHOÂË TpeTH 06e CyMMKI. Cekperapuart  Aonxen Gonee pemxTeJlbBHO IMPOBOZMHTB MOJNHWHTHKy BHYTPEHHEH 3KOHOMHH, OCOGEHHO B MONHTHKE  no BONpOCAaM repcoHana, B aZMHHHCTPAYHH H B HHBECTHUHOHHOH J@ATENbBHOCTH OpraHH3AIHH.
13.27 5H xoTen 6b B 3AKTIOYEHHE CBOCTO BHICTYIUIEHHA OT HMEHH Hallero NpaBHTeNbCTBA
3aBepuTE Bac, rocnoiuH Ilpexceparens, UTo YCCP, HENOKONGOHMO CTOSIAN Ha CTOpOHE  cul MHpa H nporpecca, 6yaer axTupHo paboraTh B STOÉ OpraHHSsalIHH H BCEMH CBOHMH CHA”  MH 6yneT MOMOrATL pa3’BHBaTh TE 00JIaCTH ee AESTEJBHOCTH, KOTOPRIE HMEIOT MNEpBOCTENEH-  Hoe sHaueHHe VIS CUACTIHBOTO pasBHTHA YerroBeuecTBa. Brarogxapp Bac, rocnoivH Mpeace-  Jareslb.
(13.1) Mr. ROHAL-ILKIV (Czechoslovakia) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr. President, allow me, on behalf of the Czechoslovak delegation and personally, to con-  gratulate you on your election to the Chair of the seventeenth session of the General Conference.  We are convinced that under your guidance we shall succeed in covering all the items on our  agenda and shall reach appropriate decisions on the matters before us.
(13.2) The seventeenth session of the General Conference is taking place a year since we formally  observed in this hall the twenty-fifth anniversary of the founding of our Organization. That event  was not so much a celebration as an occasion to examine the effectiveness and vital power of the  principles on which the United Nations and Unesco were founded and to assess the whole of our  Organization's work. The criterion for evaluating all the results was the extent to which Unesco,  in its practical activities, is putting into effect the principles set forth in the Charter: that is,
223   how our Organization is contributing to the maintenance of peace and security throughout the  world by strengthening international co-operation in education, science and culture. The results  of Unesco's work over a quarter of a century show a number of positive features but also some  negative ones, depending on’ where and on whose side the Organization has stood in the past in  the confrontation between the forces of progress and peace and the forces of regression and war,
(13.3) The international situation in which we are meeting this year remains highly comple x and  contradictory: development for the better, despite the support of the world's progressive forces,  is making headway only with difficulty. The principle of peaceful coexistence of States with differ-  ent social structures, consistently applied by the Soviet Union throughout the fifty yesrs of its  existence and by the other socialist countries, is increasingly proving to be a force of attraction  in relations between States. This principle meets the hopes and aspirations of the majority of  the world's nations - their hopes for the establishment of peaceful living conditions for the pres-  ent and next generations, These hopes, however, are daily threatened by the bombardments and  use of napalm in Viet-Nam and the continuously-smouldering hotbed of war in the Near East.
(13.4) In the present situation our Organization must consistently fight all old and new forms of  colonialism and all forms of racism, We all vividly remember the horrors perpetrated by racism  during the Second World War and we know of what it is still capable wherever it is allowed even  the smallest scope to operate with impunity. This is why we continue to regard Unesco's strug-  gle against apartheid, zionism, fascism and other forms of racist theory and practice as a task  of immediate urgency. We must consistently put into effect the provisions for this purpose already  adopted in previous resolutions, or to be adopted in the resolutions before the present session,
(13.5) Peace and co-operation between nations and States should be the primary goal ofan organi-  zation like Unesco.
(13,6) Europe, at whose heart Czechoslovakia lies, is now experiencing one of the longest periods  without wars in its history. This favourable trend is further advanced by such acts as the ratifi-  cation of the treaties between the Federal Republic of Germany and the USSR and between the  Federal Republic of Germany and Poland, the Four-Power Agreement on West Berlin, the forth-  coming European conference on problems of security and co-operation, and others. I should like  to emphasize once more, as we already have in our reply to the note of the Director-General of  Unesco on the preparation of a conference on European security, that the Prague Declaration of  States Members of the Warsaw Pact points a realistic path towards the attainment of the confer-  ence's goals, and that the success of the Conference will multiply the possibilities of increasing  prosperity, culture and all-round co-operation among European nations.
(13.7) An important event since the last General Conference has been the negotiations now tak-  ing place between the two German States. We hope that the process of normalization of the rela-  tions between those two States will be carried to its logical conclusion and that the German  Democratic Republic will very shortly become a full member of our Organization. The Czecho-  slovak delegation has spoken more than once in this forum of the significance and importance of  this step in achieving the universality of our Organization and the further development of co-  operation in education, science and culture in Europe. The early years of our Organization  have not been easy; and that is all the more reason why Unesco should not retreat from its  responsibilities in the future nor diminish its efforts directed at peaceful co-operation, to which  the results of a number of important regional and world conferences of Unesco testify, We shall  continue for a long time to proceed in our work and our programmes from the positive results  and initiatives of the conferences held in Venice, Helsinki and Tokyo. Experience of our Organi-  zation's development and activity should impel us to seek increasingly effective methods of attain-  ing its goals.
(13.8) The fact that all human activities are in one way or another closely connected with the  achievements of science and technology is universally true of the development of modern society,  The relations between science and education and the growing rôle of science therefore mean thai .  priority in Unesco's programmes is naturally given to science and education.
(13.9) The general trend towards "renewal of education', in the word's widest sense, in our  Organization's educational activity appears to the Czechoslovak delegations, above all as a re-  sponse to the need for qualitative reforms in education, for improvement of co-ordination and  of the internal structure of Unesco in this field, and for rapid practical application of the results  of educational theory and greater Unesco involvement in higher education. In this connexion  allow me to recall that a conference of the education of ministers of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, the People's Republic of Bulgaria, the Hungarian People's Republic, the Democratic  Republic of Viet-Nam, the German Democratic Republic, Cuba, the Mongolian People's Republic,
224   Romania and the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic was held in Prague from 5 to 11 June 1972,  This conference helped to extend and intensify co-operation between the above-mentioned coun-  tries in education.
(13.10) Among the other concrete results of the Conference was the signing of a "Convention on  reciprocal recognition of equivalence of diplomas and certificates of graduation from secondary,  special secondary, and higher educational establishments and documents conferring scientific  titles and degrees’, The Conference also supported the peaceful appeal addressed by Prague's  ancient Charles University to 584 universities and higher educational establishments in Europe,  It is proposed that a meeting of representatives of these educational estahlishments shall be held  in Prague, to evaluate the rôle and position of higher educational establishments in society and  particularly in the education of youth.
(13, 11) The meeting will also consider how higher educational establishments can carry out and  extend their co-operation in the future and how they can continue to assist the development of  higher education in the developing countries.
(13, 12) Allow me to draw attention to a feature of education and culture which was stressed both  at the Third International Conference on Adult Education held in Tokyo and at the Intergovern-  mental Conference on Cultural Policies in Europe held in Helsinki. I refer to the need for a  more intensive application of the principle of life-long education and its incorporation in national  cultural policies. This concept, first formulated by Lenin, underlies the efforts nf all socialist  countries, and therefore of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, in education. In the Czecho-  slovak delegation's view we should make a mistake if at this seventeenth session we failed to give  sufficient attention to the results of both those conferences. I think that the seventeenth session  of the General Conference should take immediate steps to write implementation of the results of  the Helsinki and Tokyo Conferences directly into the working programme of our Organization,  as was done in 1970 with the results of the Venice Conference.
(13, 13) Much has been said and written already about the rôle of national culture in-the history  of all the world's nations, We know how much support their national liberation struggles have  drawn from their national culture and progressive national traditions. We consider that States  which support national creative art follow a wise policy. A few weeks ago, at the third interna-  tional exhibition of primitive art in Bratislava, we had occasion to see how fresh and inexhaust-  ible that source is.
(13. 14) Our Organization has more than once played a positive rôle in advancing the little-known  cultural values of nations which had suffered oppression for centuries. I am convinced that the  Soviet draft resolution on "'Measures for safeguarding, preserving and developing national cul-  tures regarded as the objective foundation for mankind's cultural progress and the strengthening  of international cultural links" will mobilize our Organization for further efforts in this direction.
(13. 15) With regard to the chapters of our Organization's programme relating to the natural and  exact sciences, I take the liberty of recalling that the Czechoslovak delegation has been one of  those which have supported this trend in Unesco's activities, having in mind that international  co-operation would be concentrated on certain key scientific programmes. I may assure you  that Czechoslovak experts and scientists are giving due attention to the preparation and imple-  mentation of the Unesco programme and that by their contribution they intend to continue to  assist its implementation to the greatest possible extent.
(13. 16) The new International Geological Correlation Programme is receiving special attention  from our experts, not only because they were its initiators but also because our State, as a con-  tinental country with a highly complex geological structure extending into neighbouring countries,  has an interest in and a need for international co-operation in the further exploration and utiliza-  tion of natural resources.
(13. 17) Nor is there need to say a great deal about the participation of Czechoslovak experts in  the intergovernmental Programme on Man and the Biosphere, since the scientific and practical  benefits of this programme for society at large are beyond dispute. We also agree that it was  right to curtail the contents of this programme; this curtailment will lead to a natural concen-  tration on the most important projects and to their consistent and speedy execution, That does  not mean, however, that we shall not support the inclusion of other projects in this programme  if they are appropriate.
(13. 18) The International Hydrological Decade now nearing its conclusion has, in the opinion of  our experts, yielded a number of positive results. The Czechoslovak delegation fully supports
14,  the idea of a long-term programme of international co-operation in hydrology. The problem of  ensuring an adequate supply of water for the present and future generations is one which all  countries must solve,
(13.19) International scientific and technical co-operation is impossible today without consistent  co-operation in building up, storing, finding and disseminating scientific and technical informa-  tion. We therefore welcome the efforts of Unesco and other international organizations directed  at preparing the ground for the systematic development of such international co-operation with  the help of the UNISIST project. We see the UNISIST system, in the first phase, as an appro-  priately co-ordinated body of methods and services which States can offer to one another.
(13,20) We are also glad to note our country's contribution in assisting experts from the develop-  ing countries to improve their qualifications by post-graduate studies and specialization, Some  fifty experts have completed during the past two years, or will complete, post-graduate courses  in hydrology, analytical chemistry, microbiology, training of teachers for secondary agricultural  schools and macromolecular chemistry, I am happy to announce my Government's readiness to  organize these courses in collaboration with Unesco, not only for the next two-year period but  also further ahead. Our experts have participated actively in discuseing how to improve the  quality of post-graduate courses and fellowships and how to employ and fully utilize experts who  have completed these courses in their own countries. We welcome the intention to discuss these  questions at the forthcoming Vienna meeting of directors of international Unesco fellowship courses  in Europe.
(13,21) We understand the decision of the sixteenth session of the General Conference to proclaim
1972 an International Book Year to mean that the Book must not only maintain but also increase  its influence in relation to other mass information media and that, as a tool of acquisition and  propagation of fresh knowledge, it must become an important instrument of the struggle for peace  and mutual understanding among all the peoples of the earth.
(13.22) beg to associate myself with the words of appreciation which have been addressed to  the Director-General and the staff of the Organization for all the good work they have done on  behalf of our Organization.
(13. 23)1 nevertheless regret that the hope expressed by the Czechoslovak delegation at the last  session - that discussion of the six-year programme might impel stabilization of the growth of  the budget and its concentration on the priority areas of the programme - has not been fulfilled.
(13. 24) In particular, our delegation together with certain others formulated the idea that the  expansion of the Organization's budget should not be more rapid than the average growth of the  national product of the Member States who contribute to the budget.
(13.25)1 should like to emphasize that our delegation will continue to support all proposals aimed  at extending Unesco's useful activities and strengthening Unesco's authority. We seriously fear,  however, that the rate of growth of the budget in the next two-year period is too rapid and too  high. The Czechoslovak delegation cannot agree to this.
(13.26) We consider that there are good grounds for insisting that administrative expenditure  should not exceed one-third of the total budget of the Organization. The Secretariat must be  more resolute in applying a policy of internal economy, especially in personnel policy, adminis-  tration and the Organization's investment activity.
(13.27) In concluding my statement I should like to assure you, Mr. President, on behalf of my  Government, that the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, standing unshakably on the side of the  forces of peace and progress, will work actively within the Organization and will exert all its  strength in helping to develop those fields of its activity which are of primary significance for  the happy development of mankind.  The PRESIDENT:  I thank Mr, Rohal'-Ilkiv for his statement. I now request H E., Mr. Yao Akoto, Minis-  ter of National Fducation of Ivory Coast, to take the floor.
15,1 M, Paul YAO AKOTO (Côte-d'Ivoire). -  Monsieur le Président, au moment où vous venez d'être appelé à diriger les  travaux de cette auguste assemblée, permettez au ministre de l'Education de la Côte-  d'Ivoire de vous adresser, en son nom propre et au nom de son pays, les très vives
226   et chaleureuses félicitations qu'appelle tout naturellement votre éclatante élection. Ce  suffrage sans équivoque ne témoigne pas seulement de l'amitié sincère que portent à  votre prestigieux. pays les délégués des différentes nations ici représentées, Il est  juste de reconnaître et de souligner qu'il exprime surtout l'admiration que vous valent  votre prestige personnel, vos remarquables dons et les précieuses qualités dont vous  n'avez cessé de donner la preuve au cours de votre brillante et longue carrière et qui  vous désignaient en toute logique pour assumer les éminentes fonctions qui viennent de  vous être confiées,
15,2 Vous accepterez, j'en suis sûr, que mes hommages aillent également à votre  éminent prédécesseur, qui a su, en des circonstances non moins exceptionnelles que  celles d'aujourd'hui, s'acquitter avec une rare compétence et une bienveillante autorité  des tâches qui sont aujourd'hui les vôtres.
15,3 Qu'il me soit également permis, Monsieur le Président, d'exprimer à tous les  membres du Conseil Exécutif, et notamment à son président, la reconnaissance que  nous leur devons pour le sérieux qu'ils ont apporté à leurs travaux et, en particulier,  à l'organisation minutieuse de la présente session de la Conférence générale.
15,4 Qu'il me soit enfin permis de saluer avec une immense gratitude le Directeur  général de l'Unesco, M. Maheu, qui, avec sa hauteur de vues, sa sagesse, son sens  de l'humain et son incomparable compétence, n'a jamais déçu les Etats membres, parce  qu'il a su mettre au service intégral de l'Unesco toutes ses éminentes qualités. Nous pou-  vons tous constater que, sous sa conduite éclairée, notre Organisation ne s'est àaucun  moment départie de la noble mission qui est la sienne, et je suis persuadé que l'intérêt  croissant que suscite l'Unesco, si l'on en juge par l'importance des adhésions nouvelles,  participe du souci évident qu'ont les nations de réaffirmer leur foi inébranlable en cette  organisation et en ses objectifs fondamentaux.
15,5 En ce qui concerne la Côte-d'Ivoire, elle n'a jamais cessé de proclamer sa foi  en l'Unesco ; elle n'a jamais cessé de mettre en évidence la contribution que cette organi-  sation a apportée au travail persévérant qui vise à assurer la paix entre tous les-hommes,  de quelque origine qu'ils soient. La recherche de la paix demeure d'ailleurs un élément  important de la politique élaborée et appliquée par le président de la République de Côte-  d'Ivoire, S, Exc. M, Félix Houphouet-Boigny, qui déclarait, lors de notre accession à  l'indépendance, il y a déjà douze ans : "Nous voulons considérer notre indépendance comme  une contribution à la cause de la paix entre les hommes et entre les nations.'' Peut-il y  avoir rien de plus sage et de plus logique que cette ligne de conduite, qui est la seule à  adopter pour tenter de sortir nos pays de leur désolant état de sous-développement ? On  n'insistera jamais assez sur l'importance que présente la paix pour la survie de notre  monde en émoi ; et la paix dépend si étroitement de l'essor de nos pays - en même temps  qu'elle conditionne cet essor - que S,S. le pape Paul VI a pu dire, recourant en l'occurrence  àune formule particulièrement heureuse, que ''le nouveau nom de la paix est le développement",
15.6 L'Unesco, qui oeuvre depuis toujours pour une politique de compréhension et de paix  entre les nations, a choisi d'étayer cette politique sur le développement de l'éducation, de  la science et de la culture. Par suite, il n'est guère étonnant de constater que, l'éducation  restant la préoccupation majeure de notre temps pour ce qu'elle comporte de valeurs mo-  rales et de potentialités diverses quant à l'épanouissement complet et harmonieux de l'indi-  vidu dans une société sans catastrophique disharmonie, le Secrétariat a eu la judicieuse  idée de mettre en place une Commission internationale sur le développement de l'éducation,  dont le rapport sera pour nous tous une source féconde d'inspiration et servira, sans nul  doute, à orienter nos actions présentes et futures en ce domaine, En ces moments diffi-  ciles, où nos aspirations les plus intimes nous poussent à généraliser la scolarisation dans  nos pays au lourd "arriéré d'ignorances' par un enseignement de type moderne, ce à quoi  une partie substantielle des maigres budgets de nos États est consacrée, il est en effet  certain que nous devrons tendre à rechercher un enseignement de qualité plus adapté a nos  besoins et à nos idéaux, et à mieux définir ses objectifs, sa politique et ses approches
227   ?  [x  pédagogiques, "Apprendre a etre’, un tel ouvrage ne pouvait mieux arriver à son heure ;  il répond à notre attente et va susciter, ou rendre plus dynamique, la nécessaire politique  de rénovation de nos différents systèmes éducatifs, De ce point de vue, et pour des pays  qui, comme le mien, malgré les éventuels aléas et les incertitudes d'un tel choix, ont  choisi d'être, je considère comme un impérieux devoir de reconnaissance de souligner  publiquement les remarquables efforts entrepris par l'Unesco et divers Etats ou organismes  en vue de faire aboutir l'important projet de rénovation de l'enseignement primaire grâce  à la télévision éducative, Il s'agit là d'une opération d'envergure, unique au monde par son  extension, et qui entre en Côte-d'Ivoire dans sa deuxième année d'expérimentation ; elle  ouvre à n'en point douter de nouvelles perspectives qu'on peut d'ores et déjà qualifier de  prometteuses, car les résultats enregistrés sont des plus encourageants et des plus récon-  fortants, Si mon pays a accepté de tenter cette expérience exaltante, mais combien péril-  leuse, de l'innovation pédagogique, c'est qu'il avait conscience que son succès constituerait  une solution possible aux maux dont souffre l'éducation dans les pays sous-développés, Je  puis affirmer que la Côte-d'Ivoire est prête à faire bénéficier le monde entier du fruit et  des résultats de cette audacieuse entreprise, et c'est pourquoi nous attendons de tous solli-  citude et encouragements.
15.7 Monsieur le Directeur général, les documents que vous proposez à l'analyse de notre  assemblée, à savoir le Projet d'esquisse de plan à moyen terme et le Projet de programme  et de budget, n'appellent guère d'observations particulières de la part de ma délégation,  Tout au plus pourrais-je souligner que le Projet d'esquisse de plan à moyen terme (17 C/4),  entièrement rénové, présente à mes yeux l'avantage de définir avec clarté, en les dévelop-  pant, les grandes orientations de notre Organisation, offrant ainsi aux Etats membres  l'occasion d'harmoniser, s'ils le désirent, leurs plans de développement. En ce qui concerne  mon pays, la lecture de ce document révèle que nous avons, en grande partie, réalisé, au  cours de la première décennie de notre indépendance, ce que le Directeur général a défini  comme une "action intellectuelle’ préalable à tout développement de "l'action opération-  nelle". Nous abordons, en conséquence, la Deuxième Décennie des Nations Unies pour le  développement avec sérénité et optimisme, d'autant que, dans le domaine scolaire notam-  ment, notre réseau de télévision éducative s'étend et se perfectionne grâce à l'utilisation  rationnelle des appareillages et du personnel mis à notre disposition par les aides exté-  rieures ; la contribution de l'Unesco est en ce domaine très appréciable, Du complexe télé-  visuel de Bouaké à l'Institut de recherche pédagogique d'Abidjan, nous avons pu noter avec  satisfaction l'enthousiasme et la détermination de tous les enseignants et techniciens qui  contribuent an succès de ce “pari du siècle'' qu'est la rénovation de notre enseignement du  premier degré par l'utilisation des ressources de l'audiovisuel employé comme auxiliaire  pédagogique, Il ne pouvait d'aiileurs en être autrement, puisque tous ceux qui participent  à cette oeuvre passionnante et délicate sont conscients qu'en se livrant à ce travail pour la  Côte-d'Ivoire et pour le peuple ivoirien ils travaillent pour l'humanité entière : comme  disait tout récemment le Président de l'Assemblée nationale de mon pays : "Tout ce qui  touche l'enseignement est naturellement frappé du sceau de l'universel, "'
15.8 Ai-je besoin par ailleurs, Monsieur le Président, de souligner que les paragraphes  consacrés à l'homme et son environnement et à l'homme et la biosphère, où il est question  de programmes relevant du Secteur des sciences sociales, des sciences humaines et de la  culture, ainsi que du Secteur des sciences exactes et naturelles, correspondent aux préoc-  cupations de la Côte-d'Ivoire, puisque le Chef de l'Etat a créé un ministère de la Recherche  scientifique et un Secrétariat d'Etat chargé des affaires culturelles ?
15,9 Quant à l'activité capitale pour la coopération scientifique internationale qu'est le  programme UNISIST, qui prévoit la création d'un Système mondial d'information scienti-  fique, nous y souscrivons sans réserve,
15,10 Enfin, s'agissant des problèmes si importants et si épineux de la jeunesse, souci  majeur et constant de nos gouvernements, nous approuvons pleinement les perspectives  dessinées par l'Unesco Le président Houphouet-Boigny s'est exprimé a propos de la jeu-  nesse dans les terme: ivants, à l'occasion de la célébration du douzième anniversaire
228   de notre indépendance : "Nos fils et nos filles sont, et je crois qu'il en sera ainsi de plus  en plus, autant les enfants de leur siècle que nos propres enfants, Dans une société en état  de transformation. rapide et en un temps de sollications extérieures souvent traumatisantes,  ils ont, plus que d'autres peut-être, de la difficulté à se situer vis-à-vis de certains mo-  dèles traditionnels qui tombent peu à peu en désuétude sans être encore remplacés, la plu-  part du temps, par d'autres qui soient satisfaisants et adaptés, ''" Comme vous le constatez,  on ne saurait partager plus complètement les préoccupations des auteurs du rapport  "Apprendre à être", et mon gouvernement, suivant l'exemple de son Président qui n'a pas  hésité à dresser avec courage un constat de carence, tirera le meilleur parti des conclu-  sions de cette étude.
15.11 Que dire enfin de la réflexion pertinente du Directeur général sur "l'incertitude du  destin de l'humanité" et sur l'attitude à adopter pour "découvrir d'autres horizons" ? Nous  éprouvons la même inquiétude que lui en songeant au devenir d'un monde que des guerres  interminables et les disparités grandissantes entre pays riches et pays pauvres plongent  dans une angolsse toujours plus profonde, Sur ce point également, la position du Président  Houphouët-Boigny est sans équivoque, lui qui s'est affirmé et imposé comme l'apôtre in-  conditionnel du dialogue qui devra contribuer au règlement de tous les conflits et de toutes  les tensions entre les hommes et entre les nations, C'est pourquoi, paraphrasant le Direc-  teur général, je dirai que le Président de la République de Côte-d'Ivoire n'a jamais hésité  un seul instant à "oser et choquer", lorsqu'il fallait user du dialogue qui reste l'arme des  forts et non l'arme des faibles, La Côte-d'Ivoire poursuivra, avec patience et sans fai-  blesse, sa politique d'ouverture et de paix sur le monde extérieur, car elle est plus que  jamais consciente de l'impérieuse nécessité du dialogue pour le règlement des problèmes,  quelle que soit leur origine et leur nature, et cela malgré les incompréhensions ou les  procès d'intention,
15,12 Pour conclure, je voudrais adresser à nouveau toutes mes félicitations au Secré-  tariat de notre Organisation pour les activités de très grande valeur qui ont été exécutées  au cours de ce biennium, et dont l'incidence sur le développement de nos Etats est inesti-  mable, Parmi ces entreprises riches d'enseignement pour des pays à forte tradition orale  comme les nôtres, il me plaft de mentionner tout particulièrernent l'''Année internationale  du livre'', dont le succès se passe de commentaires et nous confirme dans l'idée que nos  valeurs culturelles se perpétueront à la fois dans les mémoires de nos griots et dans les  ouvrages écrits, dont la vogue nouvelle et grandissante nous rassure et nous soulage.
15,13 Monsieur le Président, Mesdames et Messieurs, je vous remercie de votre aimable  attention.
16. The PRESIDENT:  I thank H, E, Mr. Paul Yao Akoto for his statement. I now request H, E, Mr, Van Veen,  Minister of Education and Science of the Netherlands to take the floor.
17.1 Mr. VAN VEEN (Netherlands):  Mr. President, allow me to congratulate you personally on your election as President  of this seventeenth session of the General Conference. Your world-wide renown as alawyer  and diplomat and your past association with the Organization as a member of the Executive  Board and as the Permanent Delegate of your country, are an assurance to all of us that  you will guide our work with competence and objectivity.
17.2 Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Kingdom of Netherlands  notes with satisfaction that since its previous session the Organization has become even  more universal, The Organization's universality is the perspective in which I would like  to put my necessarily short address, Universality is essential for Unesco and in saying  thie I find myself in the good company of our Director-General, In the book published on  the occasion of the Twenty-fifth Anniversary, he wrote: "The greatest danger which could  threaten Unesco is that of becoming - or even merely appearing to be - the instrument of a  category of countries - of West or East, North or South - however important the values and
8  the interests which they represent or support’, The essence of the universality of Unesco  is implied in this quotation: co-operation in cultural and educational matters between  governments and nations that are otherwise sharply divided by fundamental ideological and  economic differences, This is the strength and at the same time the weakness of our Or-  ganization, Unesco can bring all countries together andunite them in permanent structures  and other forms of co-operation and common endeavour, But, onthe other hand, numerous  purely technical matters often become needlessly complicated because people approach  them with the contrasts in mind, The Organization reaches out far beyond its concrete  achievements, Unesco is indeed a challenge in itself, an adventure, the success of which  depends not on numerical majorities, but on the extent to which it succeeds in getting  governments and nations to participate in mutually agreed programmes, It is therefore  essential that a strong and permanent search for consensus ‘should prevail in all organs  and at all levels of the Organization,
17.3 The proposed programme and budget for the next two-year period, has now reached  its final stage and it would be impractical for so large and unwieldy a body as the General  Conference to try to alter very much in it by amendments to minor subdivisions, Far from  improving it, we would runthe risk of harming the programme through resolutions which  might throw it off balance. The Netherlands delegation will therefore accept the broad  lines of the proposed programme, This does not, however, mean that my Government is  particularly happy with the size of the proposed budget: on the contrary it considers the  ceiling proposed too high and a serious obstacle to reaching a consensus, I regret very  much to have to state that the Netherlands Government cannot favour the budget proposals  of the Director-General, the first time since Unesco came into existence that my Govern-  ment has taken this position. It cannot subscribe to an overall increase inthe budget figure  of 33, 4 per cent, resulting from organic growth, increases of wages and prices, and de-  valuation of the dollar. In this connexion I should perhaps say that Unesco would be the  first United Nations agency to treat the consequences of the devaluation of the dollar in the  particular manner now proposed by the Director-General.
17,4 Together with a number of other countries my delegation has submitted a draft reso-  lution proposing a provisional budget ceiling of a little less than $113 millions. Let me  add, Mr, President, that this position in no way means that the Netherlands intends to re-  duce its contribution to international co-operation. On the contrary, this contribution,  particularly in regard to growing development co-operation, is steadily increasing on the  multilateral level even more than on the bilateral level.
17.5 The possibility that in a few days a number of Member States may be confronted with  a decision of the General Conference which will be difficult for them to accept represents  a serious threat to the consensus of which I spoke earlier. Like the Director-General, I  regard a consensus in respect to the main issues of the Organization as essential if the Or-  ganization is to continue to function fruitfully, :
17.6 Whatever the decision of the General Conference in regard to the budget will be,  Mr, President, I would like to ask the Director-General to ensure, before implementing  any part of the programme, that sufficient progress has been made in its intellectual and  material preparation. I also urge him to practise the very greatest economies in the exe-  cution o .he programme. As a matter of fact we have the impressionthat through improved  management and a more efficient organization of the Secretariat a number of economies  can be made, which in our opinion, instead of harming the programme, may well lead to  greater effectiveness,
17,7 Now, Mr, President, I turn to the Draft Medium-term Outline Plan, First of all, I  would like to pav tribute to the Director-General for having conceived and prepared this  document. Unesco is one of the first of the Specialized Agencies to present a six-year plan:  this is an outstanding initiative, which may well offer far-reaching new possibilities for  programme-making within the United Nations family, As with all initiatives, it is impor-  tant to offer constructive criticism. In this spirit, I may perhaps be permitted to make a
8  few observations and suggestions, referring not to form and methodology but to the sub-  stance of the documents, Under the heading "The main lines of emphasis in the programme",  the Director-General deals with a number of questions which are very important to the fu-  ture of the Organization,
17,8 On the whole I concur with the Board's comments as reported in document 17 C/86,  What, however, strikes me is that the questions dealt with are more of an organizational  or administrative than of a substantive nature. They do not provide the intellectual seed-  bed from which an innovative programme might grow,
17.9 What I looked for in vain in the Director-General's introduction was an exposition of  the great problems likely to face mankind during the period of the medium-term plan in the  domains proper to the Organization, and an indication of how the Organization intends to  contribute to their solution. Neither do the sectoral introductions to the chapters afford  any insight of this kind: they are little more than a summary of the programme which  follows,
17.10 I would like to illustrate this with an example from the Education Sector. The pro-  grammes in both documents 17 C/4 and 17 C/5, consist of a large number of activities, in  which nearly all the problems arising in education make their appearance in one form or  another, Nowhere, however, do I find any indication of the essential structural problems  which the programme seeks to solve, For example, a number of activities are proposed  for the implementation of the Right to Education; but nowhere do we find any reference to  the question of what that Right may signify in present-day society, Nevertheless, it is  evident that the implementation of this Right is subject to limitations even in the so-called  developed countries; the financial limitation is perhaps the most obvious of these, but it is  certainly not the only one, It is evident that an analogous reasoning could be made in res-  pect of the Right to Culture.
17.11 Another problem is the increasing number of educated but unemployed young people  all over the world. Everywhere, the anxious question arises of what to do with the large  numbers of school-leavers? But the documents contain no reference tothe social conditions  to which education should relate. If these conditions are not taken into account, education  leads mainly to frustration and disillusionment, and is a waste of money,
17,12 It is not my intention to suggest that these and similar questions in other sectors  should be treated in depth in C/4. But one should be able to sense their underlying pre-  sence there, and be able to find a number of programme suggestions offering possible  solutions,
17,13 The kind of problems in the field of education of which I spoke have been reflected  in the report that the International Commission on the Development of Education, headed  by Mr, Edgar Faure, has prepared at the request of Unesco. I hope that a thorough study  of this report may lead to lasting improvements of the programme in this field, The re-  commendations of the many international and regional conferences on policies in the fields  of education, science and culture, of which the conferences at Helsinki and Tokyo were the  most recent ones, should also be taken inte account,
17. 14 Perhaps not enough attention has been given to determining what specific contribution  Unesco can make to the solution of these basic problems. Unesco has its own specific  personality and methods of work, arising mainly from its Constitution, its origin, history,  identity and varied degrees of expertise as well as its place in the family of international  organizations, Understandably, it is not the only organization in the world which is active  in the fields of education, science, culture and communication. Admittedly, it is the only  world-wide intergovernmental body working in these fields, but this too is an element of  its specific identity.
17.15 These considerations, in my opinion, must lead Unesco to adopt a new approach to
8  programme -making through planning by objectives: this means that the Organization should  base its planning on the major structural problems in the fields of its competence, taking  into account its own identity and capacity, The implementation of this planning by objec-  tives implies the setting of priorities, The organs which are at the origin of Unesco's  programming and are responsible for setting priorities, that is to say the General Confer-  ence, Ministerial Conferences, Member States, National Commissions, non-governmental  organizations, etc. should exercise the necessary self-discipline in suggesting programmes.
17,16 Mr, President, Unesco does not have to tackle every problem for which it is con-  stitutionally competent, It can succeed in dealing with problems only by applying to them  its own specific approach - even if this specific approach is characterized by universality.  Because this aspect is perhaps not sufficiently recognized, a.programme has emerged  which is, as it were, a catalogue of current issues, accompanied by a constant refrain  ahout how all-embracing they are and how inadequate are the means at the Organization's  disposal. Hence the repeated demand for increasing the budget without any one problem  receiving satisfactory attention: 'Qui trop embrasse mal étreint",
17. 17 Through planning by objectives Unesco would acquire a clearer image: people all  over the world would know what can be expected of it and what cannot, This would also  result in a clearer demarcation of functions and a better understanding and co-ordination  between Unesco and other international organizations, which also deal with problems in  the fields of education, science, culture and communications, This would make it easier  for the Organization to make fuller use of the Unesco National Commissions and the inter-  national non-governmental organizations by entrusting them with the execution of a number  of its activities, In this way, the Organization would make a very important contribution  to the improvement of international co-operation in the fields with which we are here  concerned,
17.18 The absence of substantive guidelines in the introduction does not mean that such  guidelines do not exist. They do exist, This is evident from the large number of excellent  publications which appear under the auspices of the Organization and probably make it one  of the larger publishing houses in the world, They are also to be found in the resolutions  of world-wide and regional conferences of Ministers, of more specialized meetings, and -  last but not least - in the many speeches and much of the writings in which Mr, René Maheu  has revealed a deeply human and original insight into the problems of today's world, Strange-  ly enough so little of this insight is discernible in the programmes. One can easily get the  impression that in Unesco there are two worlds, the one of high-level thinking embodied in  inspiring formulae, the other, the down-to-earth programme, going its own sweet way.
17,19 Mr, President, document C/4 is in many respects a detailed, technical extrapolation  of the programmatic and structural elements of C/5, and we look in vain for any link with  any new concepts emerging from international dialogue. The Netherlands delegation intends  to come back to this point in the Programme Commissions particularly with regard to the  implementation of the results of the Venice Conference on Cultural Policies and the reso-  lutions of the previous session of the General Conference in respect to the youth programme,
17,20 Finmlly, I would like to dwell for a moment on the problems arising out of the devel-  opment, within the Unesco framework, of activities which more specifically involve co-  operation between the European Member States. Unesco has done extremely valuable  pioneering work in this field too, through the organization in previous years of Pan-European  meetings of Ministers of Education, Ministers of Science and Ministers of Cultural Affairs,  There are no precedents for such conferences in the post-1945 era, or even long before,  In our age the dividing line between two firmly entrenched and divergent ideologies runs  clean across Europe, Considering this, one realizes at once the great potential signifi-  cance of this genuine European co-operation, especially when its purpose is the develop-  ment of the human spirit, ‘The follow-up given by the Organization to these Ministerial  conferences is extremely important and should be realistic, active and efficient, The
8  Netherlands Government and the National Commission are happy to offer their co-operation  in the elaboration and implementation of such programmes,
17,21 Mr. President, the purpose of this general policy debate is to bring about the adop-  tion of resolutions which will provide the Director-General with guidelines for the prepara-  tion of future prograrnmes, I hope that the present observations and comments will be of  some help, but above all it is my hope that Unesco will more than ever be the instrument  for bringing governments and peoples together, across the dividing lines of differences in  ideologies and material well-being, to work together for the development of mankind, which  means in fact the improvement of the spiritual and material quality of life: a life in which  every individual must assume responsibility and can contribute substantially to human  achievement and happiness. By working towards that development, Unesco will be firmly  on the road to the fulfilment of its highest vocation - the promotion of the cause of justice  and peace,
18,1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank H, E, Mr, Van Veen.
18,2 Distinguished delegates, as you know it is a quarter past six already and there are  three speakers for today left and then there are eight speakers scheduled for tomorrow  morning, The President has asked me to take the sense of the meeting on whether you  would like to sit tomorrow until 2 o'clock p. m, If distinguished speakers voluntarily limit  their speeches to twenty minutes then by 2 o'clock it will be possible to finish the speeches  of all the eleven speakers and we can have whatever programme we like for Saturday  afternoon, Otherwise we may have to continue in the afternoon. I would like to take the  sense of the meeting on whether you would like to sit until 2 o'clock tomorrow, I see that  there is general approval, so the session tomorrow will continue until 2 n'clock and all the  eleven speakers will be requested to make their speeches, I thank you very much for your  co-operation and for the privilege that you have given me to preside over this session, I  thank you,  The meeting rose at 6. 15 p. m,  La séance est levée à 18 h 15,  Se levanta la sesibn a las 18, 15