Fifth plenary meeting
19 October 1972, at 10,10 a, m.  President: Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan)  Cinquième séance plénière
19 octobre 1972, à 10 h. 10  Président : M. HAGUIWARA (Japon)  Quinta sesiôn plenaria
19 okrs6pa 1972 r. B 10 4.10 MHuH.  IIpeacegaTesb: r-n XATHBAPA (Hrnonna)  Lol PARI FEN)  ke ke Ll PAYS JS om if 45051 NA  (Ol) To) ge 5355 agedl 1 pa  REQUEST BY THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR ADMISSION TO  MEMBERSHIP OF UNESCO  DEMANDE D'ADMISSION A L'UNESCO DE LA REPUBLIQUE POPULAIRE DU  BANGLADESH  PETICION DE ADMISION DE LA REPUBLICA POPULAR DE BANGLADESH COMO  MIEMBRO DE LA UNESCO  HMPOCBBA O IIPHHATHH B IOHECKO, MNPEACTABNEHHAN IMPABHTENLCTBOM  HAPOAHOH PECIYBJIHKH BAHTAI ANNE  sh 501 SV VR pal ST dns iy pear Ce
1,1 Le PRESIDENT. -  Mesdames, Messieurs, je déclare ouverte la cinquième séance plénière. Conformé-  ment à la décision qui a été prise hier après-midi, lors de la quatrième séance plénière,  nous allons examiner, sous le point 56 de l'ordre du jour, la demande d'admission à  l'Unesco présentée par la République populaire du Bangladesh. Nous disposons, pour l'étude  de cette question, du document 17 C/86 et du projet de résolution présenté par l'Inde (17 C/  DR/PLEN. 4). Par la résolution reproduite au paragraphe 4 du document 17 C/86, le Con-  seil exécutif a recommandé à la Conférence générale d'accepter ladite demande d'admis-  sion, Je vous rappelle que, selon les dispositions de l'article II, paragraphe 2, de l'Acte  constitutif, il faut, pour qu'un Etat non membre de l'Organisation des Nations Unies puisse  être admis à l'Unesco, que la Conférence générale, agissant sur recommandation du Con-  seil exécutif, en décide ainsi à la majorité des deux tiers.
1.2 Je donne la parole à M, Nurl Hasan, chef de la délégation de l'Inde.
2,1 Mr, NURUL HASAN (India):  Mr, President and distinguished delegates, India has submitted a draft resolution which,  as the President was pleased to state just now, is before you in document 17 C/DR/PLEN/4,  This draft resolution has been submitted by my delegation in the light of the large consensus  revealed by the vote yesterday in favour of including the item on the agenda of this Confer-  ence, and also in accordance with our original stand and ardent wish, Several delegations,  a very large number indeed, would probably have liked to co-sponsor this resolution but in  view of the shortage of time this possibility was precluded.
2,2 Mr, President, I strongly commend to this assembly the draft resolution which I have  just had the honour to place before you formally proposing that Bangladesh be admitted as  a member of Unesco, We feel that there will be a gap in the work of this great Organization  if it lacks the participation of this important Asian State, with its population of more than
75 million and its culture which has played a valuable and significant part in the history of  South Asia, Bangladesh occupies a central position geographically in the South Asian region,  and it will have an increasingly dynamic rôle in Asia, not only in education, science and cul-  ture, but also in trade, industry and the all-round economic development of the region.
2,3 Sir, the preamble to the Constitution of Unesco states that a peace based exclusively  upon the political and economic arrangements of governments, would not be a peace which  could secure the unanimous, lasting and sincere support of the peoples of the world, and  that the peace must therefore be founded, if it is not to fail, upon the intellectual and moral  solidarity of mankind. The same preamble states that Unesco has been created for the pur-  pose of advancing, through the educational, scientific and cultural relations of the peoples  of the world, the objectives of international peace and of the common welfare of mankind for  which the United Nations Organization was established and which its Charter proclaims, 1  stress the phrase ''the peoples of the world", In other words, Unesco is built on the prin-  ciples of universality, and in the admission of new members, there should be no discrimi-  nation against any country which wishes to join the Organization and which has undertaken  to observe its Constitution,
2.4 Countries which are Members of the United Nations have an automatic right to member-  ship of Unesco, and I hope that Bangladesh will be admitted to the United Nations soon. But  it is also entitled to membership of Unesco as an independent and sovereign State and as  one of the major countries of the world in population, culture and importance, Under the  provisions of Article II, paragraph 2 of the Constitution, States not members of the United  Nations may be admitted to membership of Unesco, upon recommendation of the Executive  Board and by a two-thirds majority vote of the General Conference. As we are all aware,  the Executive Board has recommended that Bangladesh be admitted as a member of this  Organization, Unesco functions on an entirely independent basis in this matter and there is  no need for it to wait for a decision by the United Nations, There have been a number of  cases in the past when States were admitted as members of Unesco without their being mem-  bers of the United Nations,
2,5 The Government of Bangladesh has made it clear that it will comply with the Constitu-  tion of Unesco and has expressed its willingness to co-operate constructively in the per-  for mance of the world-wide tasks of the Organization, That Government has won world-  wide recognition and a large majority of the Member States of Unesco have already accorded  it, I understand that, according to the present tally, the number of countries which have  already recognized Bangladesh is now 87, Bangladesh has already joined the World Health  Organization, the International Labour Organisation, the United Nations Conference for  Trade and Development, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the Inter-  national Atomic Energy Agency, It is therefore a member of the United Nations system.  I may mention that these bodies have admitted Bangladesh as a member by very large  majorities,
2,6 The UNDP Governing Council has already decided to allocate funds for the development  of Bangladesh. This allocation is of course the step taken by the United Nations system to  provide resources for the economic development of that country. Bangladesh urgently re-  quires Unesco's assistance and advice for educational reconstruction and rehabilitation.  The problems it faces in this field are colossal, and Unesco can give it help only if the  General Conference confers on it the gift of membership, This is an urgent human problem  which transcends all political differences.
2.7 We request the General Conference to decide by the requisite majority of members  present and voting to admit Bangladesh to membership of Unesco, Such a step will be logical  and just, and represents no more than what the facts of the situation require. This Organi-  zation, which is dedicated to the promotion of goodwill and harmony through peace and  international co-operation in cultural, educational and scientific fields, has to give due re-  cognition to the State of Bangladesh, - We feel that there would be a serious lacuna in the  work of Unesco if it forgoes the participation of this important State, This is a matter which  has to be decided now and quickly,
2,8 Although I disagreed with the speeches of the distinguished representatives of Pakistan  and of China, I duly noted two important points they buth made: (a) that there was an urgent  need for peace and harmony on the sub-continent, and (b) that they are not, as the Chinese  representative pointed out, opposed to the people of Bangladesh, The fact that there was a  large majority noticeable yesterday in the vote of this Conference shows that the conscience  of mankind has awakened; our decision should therefore be free from political and procedural  shackles. I therefore appeal to all members of this Conference, including my two great  neighbours, Pakistan and China, to accept this draft resolution unanimously, so that we can  admit a great nation with good grace and in the truest spirit of Unesco, which is specially  concerned with the moral solidarity of mankind, Thank you,
3. Le PRESIDENT. -  Je remercie M, Nurul Hasan et je donne la parole à M, Shahab, chef de la délégation  du Pakistan.
4,1 Mr. SHAHAB (Pakistan):  Mr, President, and distinguished delegates, I feel tempted to say something about the  pious and non-violent homily just delivered to us by the chief delegate of India, but as a  member of the Executive Board I do value the time of the Conference because I know how  much it costs per minute to hold it; so I shall desist from going into details,
4.2 Mr. President, I have taken the floor now to submit to you that, in spil.- of all that we  have just heard, a decision on the application of Bangladesh as proposed in the resolution  submitted by the delegation of India, should be held in abeyance till the General Assembly  and Security Council of the United Nations have first pronounced their judgement, In making  this suggestion, Sir, my deiegation is motivated by one, and only one, concern, namely that  it should seek adherence to certain norms and principles which Unesco itself has generally  followed in the past in certain similar circumstances, I assure you, Sir, on the part of my  delegation that there is no attempt to obstruct or delay the welfare of the people of East  Bengal, Our ties with them are rooted in our common history which no vicissitudes of  fortune can eclipse or erase or distort. Some time ago when East Bengal now called  Bangladesh, was facing food shortage, West Pakistan, now Pakistan, was foremest in  genuinely offering large-scale shipments of supplies to that stricken territory. Only last  month when Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the leader of Bangladesh, was undergoing an operation  in a London hospital, it as the President of my country who established and maintained  direct telephonic contact with him to inquire about the progress of his health, We are leav-  ing no stone unturned to heal the bleeding wounds of the past, but Sir, this does not in any  way alter certain principles applicable to the present situation, In seeking membership of  Unesco, it is admittedly not mandatory for a State to first get itself accepted as a member  of the United Nations, and Unesco has quite appropriately a procedure available to its own  General Conference for dealing with application for membership from States and territories
5  which are not members of the United Nations, But when the General Conference is pre-  sented with such an application from a territory, the status of which underwent a change as  a result of the kind of cataclysmic events which took place in the South Asian sub-continent  last year, the situation is slightly different,
4,3 Mr, President, the General Conference of Unesco is neither the occasion nor the  forum, for me to dwell on the causes and the sequences of events which led to the terrible  upheaval in South Asia in 1971, including yet another tragic war between India and Pakistan,  My delegation has no wish to inject an acrimonious political element into the discussions  and debates of the General Conference, but there are aspects of the events of last year which  persist, with most serious human consequences, and of which full and due note was taken  at the meeting of the Security Council when it debated the question of the admission of  Bangladesh to the United Nations, There are outstanding issues which continue to bring  untold suffering to human beings and which inhibit the momentum towards peace in the South:  Asian sub-continent which was promised by the Simla Agreement between India and Pakistan,  Pakistan's view has been that, so long as Bangladesh persists in obstructing the repatria-  tion of the Pakistani prisoners-of-war and fails to take effective measures to preserve the  lives of ethnic minorities in that territory, it stands in breach of solemn internatiohal  obligations of a humanitarian nature,
4,4 Sir, the urgent need of the South Asian sub-continent is the resolution of outstanding  issues and the normalization of the situation arising from the conflict. This is why Pakistan  has been seeking a dialogue with the elected leaders of Bangladesh which, after all, was  such a vital part of Pakistan for 25 years. The territory now known as Bangladesh had  becume East Pakistan of its own free will and as a result of an overwhelming wish of its  people expressed in manifestly democratic terms, For these people we have nothing but  goodwill, What could be more natural and more conducive to peace and understanding than  the oft-repeated desire of Pakistan's President to meet Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the elected  leader of Bangladesh, without any precondition, and to try to reach an understanding on the  future pattern of relations between what for a quarter of a century were two wings of the same  country,
4,5 Sir, so long as Bangladesh continues to ignore the basic demands and obligations of  the United Nations Charter by failing to implement the resolutions of the United Nations  Generaly Assembly and Security Council, Pakistan cannot see how it becomes eligible for  membership of the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies. This is not a reason so  flimsy in nature that the General Conference of Unesco should decide not to wait for the  admission of Bangladesh to the United Nations, It is our considered view that the question  of the admission of Bangladesh to Unesco should have followed and not preceded its member-  ship of the United Nations, since it is their final pronouncement which would indicate to us  here the willingness and ability and freedom of Bangladesh to abide by the Charter, which  above all guides our work, be it in New York, or here in Paris, This would also be in keep-  ing with the practice generally observed by Unesco of waiting for countries first to join the  parent Organization, In the past, Mr. President, whenever the question of the membership  of the People's Republic of China came before the General Conference, in this very hall,  this august assembly decided that we must wait till the United Nations had given its verdict,  Again, Mr, President, whenever the question of the membership of East Germany was  raised in any of the forums of Unesco, we were always told to be patient until the dialogue  between East and West Germany came to a final conclusion, Both these elements exist in  the case before us. The question of the membership of Bangladesh is already before the  United Nations. We, on our part in Pakistan, are doing our best to‘establish a meaningful  dialogue with the authorities in Bangladesh, All that we beseech you is - not to ban  Bangladesh for ever from our forum - but just to wait, wait only for a while, How long that  "while" is we will see as the result of one or the other of these two basic elements which  have governed our conduct in similar cases in the past.
4.6 Mr. President, if Unesco really wants to remove the barricades in the path of peace  between Pakistan and Bangladesh, the best course would be to hold in abeyance the consi-
5  deration of the resolution before us until the parent body of Unesco has come to a decision  on the entire issue, In the course of his intervention in the debate yesterday on the inclu-  sion of this item on the agenda, the distinguished leader of the Indian delegation referred  to the talks held at Simla between the President of Pakistan and the Prime Minister of India,  I take this as an expression of India's continued interest in the establishment of peace in  South Asia. So far as Pakistan is concerned we more than reciprocate the desire for a just,  honourable and durable peace, The entire world knows the determination with which Pakistan  has been trying to keep the spirit of Simla despite the conspicuous delay in the implementa-  tion of certain agreed arrangements, In his intervention, the distinguished leader of the  Indian delegation, however, made what must be regarded as only a casual mention of the  obligation of all parties concerned, including India, to fulfil the decision of the United Nations  concerning the conflict of 1971, He séemed to give the impression, unless I misunderstood  him, that if there were any outstanding problems between India and Pakistan, these should  not stand in the way of the application of Bangladesh for membership of Unesco, Sir, India  should not want to have it both ways. India has so far refused to repatriate the prisoners-  of-war, as it maintains that Bangladesh is also a party to this, Here, in Unesco, if it is  convenient to de-link Bangladesh from the non-implementation of United Nations decisions,  Indin tells us that since there are no foreign troops in Bangladesh, there is nothing more  to be done, Sir, our disagreement is with the situation, and those who sustain it, ia which  Bangladesh has been cast in the réle of having to obstruct the development towards peace.  We have no reservations whatsoever about the people of East Bengal as, as I have stated  earlier, we regard their estrangement from us as essentially a short-lived phenomenon,  In a quarter of a century of common nationhood, there has been enough in our hearts to  promote reconciliation, understanding and a fresh, entirely fresh, relationship. So let no  one try to create the impression that in considering the present application of Bangladesh  as premature, we want to keep the people of East Bengal out of Unesco, No, Sir, Indeed,  their voice has been heard in Unesco, sometimes quite loudly, along with the voice of the  rest of Pakistan for as long as Pakistan has been a member of Unesco. You are not deal-  ing with a new people. You are dealing only with a new situation, produced by events which  have not only dealt us a grievous blow but have also left a rapidly-increasing number of the  people of East Bengal disillusioned and disenchanted with those who forced the situation on  them, We have enough confidence in our own goodwill towards the people of East Bengal  and enough confidence in the ultimate triumph of their goodwill towards us to want to have  a purposeful dialogue with them, Time, Sir, only will prove that our optimism was not  entirely misplaced,
4,7 Mr. President, it is in the light of these observations and this background that I wish  to reiterate my plea that we hold our decision temporarily in abeyance, otherwise my dele-  gation will be constrained to vote against the resolution before us, Thank you,
5. Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie M. Shahab et je donne la parole à M, Medvedev, délégué de l'Union des  républiques socialistes soviétiques,
6.1 H.H. ME/BENEB (Cons Coserckux CouHarnHCTHYECKHX Pecny61uK):  Y BAXaeMbIÉ rocnoaHH MpeacegaTens, rocnoda generate. IlpapHTenbcTRO Coserckoro  Cotlosa HEH3MEHHO NPHA€PXHBA@TCH /N€HHHCKOË MNONHTHKH NOAZPKKH 60phÔ»I HapoAOB sa CRO-  Gony H HesaBHCHMOCTb, PaBHO KAK H paBHOMpPaBHA POCyYAAPpCTB B MEXAYHAPpOUHbIX OTHOMEHHAX,  B TOM YHCJE B MEXAYHAPOZHbIX OPrAHH3AUHAX CHCTEMbI OPrAHH3ALHH O6%€ AMHEHHAIX Haunñ.  Mel ripupepxuBaemMcs MpHHUHMA yÿHHBEPCA/IBHOCTH OOH H CNEUHANHI3HPOBAHHHIX yupe x ge HHñ  O6rean5ennäx Haun H oTBepraem MONHTHKy TEX, KTO FOTOB MHPOKO OTKPHTb ABEpH 3THX OP"  TAHK3ALIHÀ Ana OJHHX FOCYAAPCTB H 3aKPHTb HX HA AVIHTE/NBHOE BPpEMA AVIS APYTHX.
6.2 Iloaxoa B 93TOM BONpOCE ANONXEH GBITH OXHH, à HMEHHO: FOCYFAPCTBO - CHO BH paxeHHsI  CYÉTEKT MeXAyHapoJHOTo Mpasa - 3afABAAeT O MpHHÂATHH HM YCTaBa OpraHH3alHH H ero  TOTOBHOCTH BHOCHTB CBO BKJIAA B [€/I0 yYKpennéHHA MHpa, MexAyHapogHoH 6e sonaCHOCTH H  Me XAyHapogHoro coTpygHHuecTBa, PyKOBOACTBYACh 3TOH €AHHCTBEHHO CNPAR@AIHBOH MOAH-  THKOË, Renerauns Coserckoro Cow3a NOANepxHBaeT 3aasjenne HapoaHoñ Pecny61HkH Banr-
5  naneu o npueme ee B wieHs WHECKO H nojoxuTenbHyw pexoMeHZaudio HCMNOJNHHTENBHOTO  coBeTa MO 3TOMY BONPOCY H He BHAHWT HEOÔXOAHMOCTH OTKIaAb BATH STOT BONPOC, HMeR B BH-  Ay ABHO BR PaXEHHOE TONOCORAHHE, COCTOABIECECA Buepa - Mojasiswmee GONBHHHCTBO l'OAO-  cos ydacthHkoB T'eHeparbHoH koHdepeHUWHK, OTAAHHEIX "3a" no 9TOMY BONpocy.
6.4 Ilonbayacek HacTOAWMMM caydyaem, Aeslerauua Coperckoro Cobsa xorena Obl BLRIPA3HTh Ha-  gexny Ha To, uro IOHECKO B camom Gnuxañmem OynymeM CTAHET AeHCTBHTENBHO YHH-  pepcarbHoñ opraHHsalHeH, H Mul pais Gy2eM MpHBETCTBOBATb 3A€Cb AejierallHH TeX rocy-~  AapcTB, KOTOPRE BBHAY MONHTHKH ONPEAENEHHkIX KpyrOB, BCE eile JIU EeHb BO3MOXHOCTH yua-  CTBOBATb B ee paboTe, x B nepsyo ouepeas l'epManckoï Ilemoxparhueckoñ Pecny61ukH, Ko-  TOpad yxe Bh pa3una cBoe Xe/IaHHEe CTATb wieHoMm IOHECKO. Braroxapo Bac sa BEUManue.
(6.1) M, MEDVEDEV (Union des républiques socialistes soviétiques). - (Traduit du russe. )  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, le gouvernement de l'Union so-  viétique demeure fidèle à la politique léniniste en vertu de laquelle il approuve la lutte des peuples  pour la liberté et l'indépendance en même temps qu'il est partisan de l'égalité des droits des Etats  dans les relations internationales et, en particulier, dans les organisations internationales du sys-  tème des Nations Unies, En raison du caractère d'universalité que nous reconnaissons à l'ONU et  aux institutions spécialisées des Nations Unies, nous nous élevons contre la politique de ceux qui  voudraient, tout en ouvrant largement les portes de ces organisations à certains Etats, les fer-  mer pour longtemps à d'autres.
(6.2) I n'y a qu'une manière de voir les choses. Un Etat - c'est-à-dire une entité bien détermi-  née dans le cadre du droit international - déclare accepter l'Acte constitutif et vouloir contribuer  à l'oeuvre entreprise pour l'affermissement de la paix et pour le renforcement de la sécurité et  de la coopération internationales, Conformément à la politique précédemment définie, qui est la  seule légitime, la délégation de l'Union soviétique appuie la demande d'admission à l'Unesco de  la République populaire du Bangladesh et accueille favorablement la recommandation positive for-  mulée à cet égard par le Conseil exécutif. Elle ne voit pas la nécessité d'ajourner la question,  puisque, lors du vote qui a eu lieu hier, la Conférence générale, à une écrasante majorité, s'est  prononcée en faveur de son examen.
(6.3) Compte tenu de ces considérations, la délégation soviétique votera en faveur de l'admission  du Bangladesh au sein de l'Unesco.
(6.4) La délégation de l'Union soviétique souhaite d'ailleurs que l'Unesco acquierre très prochai-  nement un caractère véritablement universel ; et elle espère que la joie lui sera donnée de voir  bientôt représentés à la Conférence générale divers pays qui, en raison de la politique pratiquée  par certains blocs, demeurent jusqu'à présent privés de la possibilité de participer à l'oeuvre de  l'Unesco et, en particulier, la République démocratique allemande, Etat qui a déjà exprimé son  désir de devenir membre de l'Unesco. Je vous remercie,
7. Le PRESIDENT. -  Je remercie M. Medvedev et je donne la parole à M. Marinello, chef de la délégation  de Cuba.
(8.1) M. MARINELLO (Cuba). - (Traduit de 1'espagnol.)  Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les délégués, je voudrais indiquer en quelques mots la po-  sition du gouvernement révolutionnaire de Cuba au sujet de la question actuellement en discussion.  Nous considérons que, dans l'examen d'un problème comme celui dont la Conférence générale est  aujourd'hui saisie, il faut tenir compte de deux principes essentiels : le principe d'universalité et  le principe de légitimité. C'est pour cela que, lors des quatre dernières sessions de la Conférence  générale, la délégation cubaine a lutté vaillamment pour faire admettre à l'Unesco la République  populaire de Chine ; et c'est également pour cela que nous approuvons maintenant le rapport dont  les conclusions sont favorables à l'admission de la République populaire du Bangiadesh au sein de  notre Organisation.
(8.2) M existe aussi en l'occurrence d'autres arguments qui nous paraissent irréfutables. 11 s'agit  en effet, non pas d'un petit pays, mais d'une nation de 75 millions d'habitants, dont la civilisation  est ancienne et originale. En ce qui concerne la légitimité de la demande, il convient de rappeler,  comme on l'a déjà fait, que la République populaire du Bangladesh a été reconnue par 87 nations ;  et il faut ajouter que le Fonds des Nations’ Unies pour le développement (PNUD) vient de libérer  d'importants crédits pour la reconstruction économique de ce pays.
(8.3) Que demande la République populaire du Bangladesh ? Qu'on lui permette de collaborer avec  l'Unesco, notamment pour la réalisation d'une tâche essentielle : organiser ses écoles, son ensei-  gnement et sa culture, après un conflit d'une ampleur épouvantable. Pouvons-nous - l'Unesco peut-  elle - repousser une demande motivée par des raisons aussi profondes et aussi indiscutables ? La  délégation du gouvernement révolutionnaire de Cuba réaffirme sa position et votera en faveur de  l'admission de la République populaire du Bangladesh parmi les Etats membres de l'Unesco.
9. Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie M. Marinello et je donne la parole à M. Maillard, délégué de la France,
10.1 M. MAILLARD (France). -  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, ma déclaration sera brève,  car je ne veux pas prolonger indûment le débat. Je voudrais simplement dire que mon gou-  vernement a très favorablement accueilli la recommandation présentée par le Conseil exé-  cutif de l'Unesco, lors de sa 90e session, concernant l'admission de la République popu-  laire du Bangladesh, ainsi que le vote qui a sanctionné l'inscription de cette question à  l'ordre du jour de la Conférence générale.
10,2 Je voudrais avssi exprimer le voeu que la Conférence se prononce sans tarder pour  l'admission de la République populaire du Bangladesh ; nous le souhaitons en raison del'im-  portance politique et démographique de ce nouvel Etat, qui fait partie d'un continent en plein  essor et dont les problèmes préoccupent au premier chef - et à juste titre - notre Organi-  sation, Nous le souhaitons aussi en raison de la contribution déjà apportée par les peuples  de ce nouvel Etat à la culture de l'humanité et à son développement spirituel, contribution  à laquelle mon pays entend rendre à nouveau hommage du haut de cette tribune et qui justi-  fie d'autant plus la présence du Bangladesh parmi les Etats membres de l'Unesco que les  besoins de ce pays en matière d'éducation, de science et d'une manière générale de déve-  loppement économique sont plus urgents, plus pressants et même plus dramatiques que  jamais.
10.3 Enfin, si l'admission de la République populaire du Bangladesh nous paraît souhaitable,  c'est qu'elle correspond à l'idéal d'universalité que doit poursuivre notre Organisation et
5  qui est encore plus nécessaire dans le domaine des oeuvres de l'esprit et dans la perspec-  tive du rapprochement spirituel des peuples que sur d'autres plans. C'est en fonction de ce  même impératif que la France avait, au cours de plusieurs sessions de la Conférence géné-  rale, réclamé l'admission dé la République populaire de Chine, que nous nous réjouissons  tout particulièrement de voir siéger aujourd'hui parmi nous, Et c'est cette même préoceu-  pation, largement conforme aux nobles conceptions développées hier à cette tribune par le  Directeur général en évoquant la mission universelle de l'Unesco, qui nous fait souhaiter  aujourd'hui que la Conférence générale se prononce sans tarder sur l'admission à l'Unesco  de la République populaire du Bangladesh, car nous pensons qu'elle contribuera à la norma-  lisation si souhaitable de la situation dans le continent asiatique. Je vous remercie, Mon-  sieur le Président.
11, Le PRESIDENT. -  Je remercie M. Maillard et je donne maintenant la parole à M, Dachenyam, délégué |  de la Mongolie.
12.1 T-n IAIIHSIM (Monronsckas Hapognas Pecny6nuka):  YsaxXaeMbä TocHoguH Ipesxcexatesb, rocilofa AereraTsi. [Io mopyuyeHHO INansl Aenera-  uuu MoHronsckofi HapoaHoit Pecny61HKH MHe XOTEJHOCb Obl 3afiBUTh, YTO MOHTO/bCKaN Aene-  rauus BelcTynaeT 3a NPHHATHIO Hapognoñ Pecny61HkH Banrnageu B YleHb OHECKO H nog-  JEPXHBAET MOJHOCTHIO peKOMeHAauHd HCNONHHTE/NBHOTO COBETAa O NpMeMe 3TOT0 rocvhapcTrsa  B wnenn OHECKO.
12.2 Cemmae CATHIATHMHIIHOHHbIÉ HAPOA MOJIOAOTO TOCyJapcTBa A3ud Banrnagew nobuacs  B TpyAHoH H CNpABE€ANHBOH Gops6e cBoeñ cpoGoAm H HAUMOHANLHOH HE3ABHCHMOCTH. 06-  pasonaHke HapoaHoñ Pecny61HxH Barraajem - HCTopHueckHWñ pakr, xoTopeid NpH3HaH B Ha-  CTOHIYEE BpeMs 87 rocyaapcTBaMH H MHOTHMH Me X/AyHa POAHBIMH OPprAHH3ALHAMH.
12.3 BornpekH CTpeMJIeHHI0O HEKOTOPLIX CTPAH BOCNPENATCTBOBATh WIH OTJIOXHTb Ha HEKOTOPBIH  CPOK AonycK STOro cyBepeHHoro rocyaapcrsa B IOHECKO Mb, KaK H MHOIHe ApyrHe me-  AeraTs, BOo3jaraeéM Hatexay Ha to, uro HapoaHas Pecny6anka Baurnajem sañMer cBOe sa-  KOHHOE MecTO B Hamel aBTopHTeTHOR OpraHH3auHK. Mel TOTOBH TONOCOBATb 3a nNpuHaTHe Ha-  poanoit Pecnybiuku Banraagem s OHECKO. Brarozapo Bac, rocnoaHH Ipejacenarens.
(12.1) M. DACHENYAM (République populaire mongole). - (Traduit du russe.)  Monsieur le Président, Messieurs les délégués, au nom du chef de la délégation de la Répu-  blique populaire mongole, je déclare que cette délégation est favorable à l'admission de la Répu-  blique populaire du Bangladesh au sein de l'Unesco et qu'elle appuie sans réserve la recommanda-  tion formulée à cet égard par le Conseil exécutif.
(12.2) Les 75 millions d'habitants que compte ce jeune Etat d'Asie qu'est le Bangladesh ont gagné  au prix d'un rude et légitime combat leur liberté et leur indépendance nationale. La formation de  la République populaire du Bangladesh est un fait historique, reconnu à l'heure actuelle par 87 Etats  et par de nombreuses organisations internationales.
(12.3) Bien que quelques pays s'efforcent d'empêcher ou de retarder l'entrée de cet Etat souve-  rain à l'Unesco, nous espérons, et avec nous de nombreux autres délégués, que la République po-  pulaire du Bangladesh va pouvoir occuper sa place légitime au sein de notre prestigieuse Organi-  sation. Nous sommes donc prêts à voter en faveur de l'admission de la République populaire du  Bangladesh au sein de l'Unesco, Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
13, Le PRESIDENT. - .  Je remercie M, Dachenyam et je donne la parole à M, Nurul Hasan, chef de la déléga-  tion de l'Inde.
14,1 Mr, NURUL HASAN (India):  Mr, President, I don't want to take more of your time and the time of this august as-  sembly, We have already pointed out that there was no justification for waiting for a deci-  sion in the United Nations before accepting the application of the People's Republic of  Bangladesh for membership of Unesco, Past precedents show that many countries who were
92   not Members of the United Nations were admitted as Members to Unesco, The admission  of Bangladesh to Unesen would accelerate the process of bringing harmony to the sub-  continent of South Asia, which is the desire of all people of this region,
14, 2 Issues such as withdrawal from territory and the problem of prisoners-of-war are  governed by the Simla Agreement, to which both Pakistan and India are pledged, These are  not issues for consideration in this forum. I may add that the Government of India is making  every effort to resolve the problems of the sub-continent sincerely in terms of the Simla  Agreement and to bring about peace and harmony in our region, I wish to emphasize,  Mr, President, that the Government and the people of India feel the utmost goodwill towards  Pakistan and they are determined to work for the establishment of friendly and good neigh-  bourly relations with this great neighbour of ours, namely Pakistan,
14,3 T urge the Conference to accept that there is no case for deferment, We should take  a decision right now to admit Bangladesh to Unesco to enable it to benefit from the member-  ship of our great Organization, I therefore appeal to this august body, Mr, President, to  accept the application for membership of the People's Republic of Bangladesh, and to enable
75 million people to co-operate with this great Organization in the important fields of edu-  cation, science and culture, Thank you.
15,1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Nous allons procéder au vote par appel nominal, à la demande de la délégation del'Inde.
15.2 (Le vote a lieu par appel nominal)  Ont voté pour le projet de résolution : Chypre, Colombie, République de Corée, Costa  Rica, Côte-d'Ivoire, Cuba, Dahomey, Danemark, République arabe d'Egypte, Equateur,  Espagne, Etats-Unis d'Amérique, Ethiopie, Finlande, France, Gabon, Grèce, Guatemala,  Guinée, Haute-Volta, Hongrie, Inde, Indonésie, Irak, Irlande, Islande, Israël, Italie,  Jamaïque, Japon, Kenya, République khmère, Laos, Lesotho, Liban, Libéria, Luxem-  bourg, Madagascar, Malaisie, Malawi, Mexique, Monaco, Mongolie, Népal, Norvège,  Nouvelle-Zélande, Panama, Pays-Bas, Pérou, Philippines, Pologne, Roumanie,  Royaume-Uni, Sénégal, Singapour, Sri Lanka, Suède, Suisse, Tanzanie, Tchécoslova-  quie, Thaflande, Togo, Trinité-et-Tobago, RSS d'Ukraine, Union des républiques so-  cialistes soviétiques, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yémen, République démocratique populaire  du Yémen, Yougoslavie, Zambie, Afghanistan, République fédérale d'Allemagne, Argen-  tine, Australie, Autriche, Belgique, Biélorussie, Birmanie, Brésil, Bulgarie, Canada,  République centrafricaine, Chili.  Ont voté contre : Émirats arabes unis, Jordanie, Pakistan, Albanie, Arabie saoudite,  Chine.  Se sont abstenus : Congo (république populaire), Ghana, Iran, Koweft, République arabe  libyenne, Maroc, Niger, Nigéria, Ouganda, Oman, Qatar, Rwanda, Somalie, Soudan,  Tunisie, Turquie, République du Viêt-nam, Zaïre, Algérie, Bahrein, Burundi, Cameroun.  Etaient absents : Honduras, Mali, Malte, Maurice, Mauritanie, Sierra Leone, Répu-  blique arabe syrienne, Barbade.
15,3 Voici le résultat du vote : 84 voix pour, 6 voix contre, 22 abstentions.
15.4 Je rappelle qu'il y avait 90 votants et que la majorité des deux tiers requise était de
61 voix, La majorité ayant été obtenue, la résolution est adoptée.
15.5 En conséquence, la République populaire du Bangladesh sera considérée comme  membre de l'Organisation à partir de la date où elle aura rempli les conditions énoncées  à l'Article 94 du Règlement intérieur de la Conférence générale. Je prie le Secrétaire de  vous donner lecture de cet article.
16. Le SECRETAIRE. -  L'Article 94 se lit comme suit : "Le Directeur général communique à l'Etat intéressé  la décision prise par la Conférence générale. S'il est fait droit à sa demande, l'Etat est
5  considéré comme membre de l'Organisation à partir de la date où le Directeur général a  reçu notification du dépôt de l'instrument d'acceptation auprès du ministère des Affaires  étrangères du Royaume-Uni."  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE/DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE/DEBATE DE POLITICA  GENERAL/OBCY XJIEHHE BOIPOCOB OBMEW MOJIHTHKH/ is UPR | J PO WOE | I 7. BON
17. Le PRESIDENT. -  Nous allons maintenant reprendre le débat de politique générale correspondant aux  points 8, 10 et 11 de l'ordre du jour. Je donne la parole au premier orateur inscrit,  S. Exc. M. Padraig Faulkner, ministre de l'éducation et chef de la délégation d'Irlande.
18,1 Mr, FAULKNER (Ireland):  At the outset, Mr, President, I should like to add my voice in support of those speakers  who came before me in offering you congratulations on your unanimous election to the office  of President of this Conference, 1 have no doubt but that you will bring to bear on the pro-  ceedings your widely acknowledged wisdom and ability,
18,2 Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, I realize that very many other heads of dele-  gations are to speak from this rostrum and that in consequence the amount of time available -  to each speaker is not unlimited, I propose therefore to be brief in what I have to say and  to confine my statement to a few topics.
18,3 When I choose to single out for special comment specific items from the programme,  I do not wish to give the impression that the topics about which ! speak indicate the only  areas of Unesco's work which we in Ireland regard as worthwhile, I can assure you that  there is no sector or facet of this distinguished Organization's very varied and comprehen-  sive programme of activities in which our National Commission does not have a very lively  and constructive interest,
18, 4 Before I proceed further and begin to deal with specific topics, Mr, President, I wish  to congratulate the Director-General on the plan of the Draft Programme, In layout and in  presentation this document is a model of clarity; its contents will, I have no doubt, inspire  much valuable and enlightened discussion, both in the general debate ard in the deliberations  of the more specialized sub-cornmittees, which will be meeting here in the course of the  Conference, The various sections of the Programme in which essential background informa-  tion, work plans and the proposed resolutions are set out are presented in an admirably  concise and clear-cut fashion which has, I have no doubt, won the approval of all delegates,
18.5 As to the content of the programme, Mr, President, the Irish delegation notes with  approval that the programme proposed for education in the coming bienniurn marks, in the  words of the Director-General: ''a resolute move towards the regeneration of education",  It is significant, I think, that ''regeneration' rather than "reform' has been stated as the  programme's aim, It suggests a more determined and radical approach to the search for  solutions to great and long-standing problems through the medium of education, I need  hardly add that this emphasis on regeneration and its implications has had a very marked  effect on the content of the proposed programme itself, :.
18,6 We are all well aware that the days are long past when one might say with conviction  that a carefully planned educational programme, conscientiously implemented, could by  virtue of its content and emphasis be guaranteed to provide an education and training that  would equip the individual to feel at home in the world and to discharge competently his rôle  for a whole life-time. We no longer have any reason to feel reassured that education to  whatever level when once acquired is sufficient to satisfy the individual's needs throughout  his life. Rather have ever-accelerating changes in the world in which we live made more  and more clear to us that the acquisition of education, far from being a once-only under-
5  taking confined to a clearly-defined period in a person's life, is an on-going activity that  requires, and indeed demands, constant renewal,
18,7 No longer are the traditional curricula or methodologies adequate to today's require-  ments, New demands and new concepts necessitate a vigorous and creative response, and  in the modern world new demands are constantly being made upon education as a result of  social, technological and economic developments, We demand, for instance, ‘that educa-  tion, while transmitting all that we consider best and that we most cherish in our heritage,  should also shape our society and further our economies, And of course there is alonglist  of other very worthy objectives which education is expected to achieve and which I will not  attempt to identify here, Suffice it to say that education to be fully effective and responsive  to the real needs of society must always be the object of constant re-examination by society.
18,8 The heavy, and in some instances rather sudden, demands that were made on educa-  tion in the course of the decade that is past revealed many gaps and weaknesses in the exis-  ting systems. But the co-operation between Member States, which was encouraged and  supported in so many practical ways by Unesco, demonstrated how members could by shar-  ing information, experience and expertise meet challenges boldly and revitalize their edu-  cation,
18,9 A lot has been achieved to date; very much more remains to be done. As I said in  my address to the sixteenth session of the General Conference two years ago: "We are  already faced with the necessity of meeting needs as they will be at the turn of the century, "  I am glad therefore that the programme for the coming biennium indicates that Unesco pro-  poses to assist Member States to assess to what extent their existing educational systems  achieve their social and economic aims and suit their cultural interests. To this end the  Organization plans to support national institutions engaged in research, innovation and  development, This is wholly admirable, and a most encouraging undertaking, It must re-  sult in the stronger impetus to renewal in education at all levels,
18, 10 In our enthusiasm for change, however, I might sound a word of warning, While  change, and sometimes very radical change, is necessary, we must not at the same time  forget that in our traditional education there is much that is of immense value, For this  reason it is important that in our awareness of the need for development and in our efforts  to bring about reform and modernization we be on our guard lest we unwittingly discard  what is worth retaining and capable of further development. This awareness of risk thatis  always inherent to some degree in change must not of course deter us from undertaking  alteration of our existing educational structures where such is seen to be necessary,
18,11 Life-long education has been emphasized in many parts of the programme, This con-  cept of life-long education has indeed many implications, It involves not only the provision  of the necessary physical facilities and the appropriate curriculum structures,butanentire-  ly fresh approach to education in general, It has of course, too, serious implications for  the cultural and communication programmes, to mention but two,
18, 12 We in Ireland are keenly conscious of the great changes that have been brought about  in education in recent years, Many reforms have taken place in our system. In the area  of primary education alone, for example, we have introduced a new child-centred curri-  culum, which enables each child to progress at the rate best suited to his aptitudes and  interests and permits of more active and creative participation by the pupil in his own edu-  cation,
18,13 Since 1 July this year the upper age limit of compulsory schooling has been raised  from 14 to 15, This change, however, has not led to any great increase in the numbers  attending school, since about 90% of our 14 to 15 year-olds were already receiving full-time  schooling voluntarily,
18, 14 Major changes and innovations create new problems for which solutions must be  found if the reforms deemed necessary are to be effectively implemented, and the maxi-  mum benefit derived from them. The experience of one Member State in dealing with such  problems can be of assistance to others contemplating the introduction of changes in, for  example, the area to which I have just referred, curriculum content. For us in Ireland the  introduction of the new curriculum into our primary schools made the planning of a com-  prehensive programme of in-service training for teachers already at work in our schools  essential, With the wholehearted co-operation and assistance of the teachers, the in-service  training programme has been successfully launched, To supplement regular formal retrain-  ing courses a network of teachers' centres, where teachers can participate more fully in  the retraining process on a regional basis and share their experiences of the working of the  curriculum in the schools, has been established,
18, 15 The sections of the programme dealing with higher education are also of special »  interest to us in Ireland at the present time, as I am at present studying the recommenda-  tions which our Higher Education Authority made in its recently published Report on Uni-  versity Reorganization,  +
18, 16 With reference to life-long education and the importance which has been given to it  in the programme, I might mention that a Committee on Adult Education is expected to sub-  mit its final report to me by the end of this year.
18,17 Ihave already made a brief reference to the réle that modern communication tech-  niques can play in life-long education, It has been stated in the Drafi Programme that life-  long education would be inconceivable without the systematic use of the mass media of  communication, The Irish delegation is wholeheartedly in favour of the emphasis which it  is proposed to place on the systematic development and application of communication plan-  ning methods, While appreciating fully that the mass media can have a tremendous influence  on education at all levels and that their potential as agents of progress and international  understanding is immeasurable, we also share the concern and anxiety of those who would  see a grave danger in their improper or unrestrained use, In an age when the technical  development of the broadcasting media has reached a stage which but a short time ago was  undreamed of, this danger is all the more real and menacing, rendering the fostering of  responsibility in the use of the media all the more necessary,
18,18 The Irish National Commission is especially interested in Unesco's communications  policy work, and Ireland is one of the countries which is participating in the Communication  Policy Studies. The Irish National Commission is playing a very active part in the study  on national communication policy in Ireland, which is being carried out at present as part  of this project, Communication policy was also a major topic of discussion at the recent  plenary session of the Commission,
18,19 The programme on culture is a very full and comprehensive one. This generous  provision is to be commended, Culture is no longer something to be enjoyed exclusively  by the more fortunate and select few in the population, Nor is it a thing apart that is re-  moved from the lives of the great majority of the people, Rather is it an integral and in-  separable part of life and must be considered as such within the framework of life-long  education,
18, 20 This was stressed by many speakers during the very valuable Intergovernmental  Conference on Cultural Policies in Europe, which was held in Helsinki in June, and which  I had the privilege of attending, I do not, however, propose to discuss here the findings  and recommendations of that Conference, which will no doubt have an influence on Unesco's  cultural programme in the immediate future,
18, 21 Before I conclude I would like to refer to another item in the cultural programme,  which I consider to be of great significance, 1need not stress the fact that the welfare of  the young has always figured prominently among Unesco's priorities, Itisinkeepingthere-
5  fore with this tradition that the cultural programme for the coming biennium includes a  proposal to conduct inquiries in collaboration with National Commissions into what prompts  rejection by young people of established cultural values, The results of this study will be.  awaited with interest by all who bear responsibility for the making and implementation of  cultural policies,
18, 22 The greatest single contribution to cultural development, however, must be made by  educational development, The general raising of educational standards and the fuller parti-  cipation by ever-growing numbers of people in educational prograrumes must contribute  significantly to that development, Nor can the part which the mass media generally, and  television in particular, can play in the work be overstressed,
18,23 There are many other important topics which 1 have not mentioned, But as I said in  my opening rËmarks, the time available to us is not unlimited, In conclusion let me once  again pay tribute to the Director-General and to the Secretariat for the thoroughness of the  programme which they have submitted to us, Thank you Mr, President,
19. Le PRESIDENT. -  Je donne maintenant la parole à S. Exc, Mme Marjatta Väänänen, chef de la délégation  de la Finlande.
20,1 Mrs, VAANANEN (Finland):  Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, may startby joining, on behalf of the delegation  of Finland, the preceding speaker in congratulating you upon your election as President of  this Conference, We wish you the best of success in your work, We are convinced that  under your presidency this session of the General Conference of Unesco will take an effi-  cient and balanced course towards constructive decisions,
20.2 The documents which form the basis of our work at this Conference reflect the great  possibilities offered by international co-operation in education, science and culture and  their contribution to international understanding and peace. They also reflect the willing-  ness and desire of all the bodies, organizations and individuals active in these fields to  work towards these aims,
20,3 The Government of Finland wishes to reaffirm its belief in the rôle of Unesco in the  planning and execution of a programme which rests on the spirit of good neighbourliness  among peoples, the purpose of which is the creation of a better future for all mankind, The  aims which we have set ourselves in this context are lofty but the resources available to us  are limited, The delegation of Finland already welcomed at the sixteenth session of the  General Conference those efforts of Unesco which aim both at continuous self-appraisal and  at long-term programming. Unesco should continually strive to concentrate ita programme  on projects of major importance and not to scatter its meagre resources, The impact of  Unesco in an increasingly complex network of intergovernmental agencies would greatly  profit from a more clear-cut profile and concentrated programme, We are glad to note that  this view is shared by many other delegations,
20,4 The difficulties of establishing which projects should be regarded as being of major  importance and brought into the focus of the Organizaticn's activities can be seen both from  the Draft Programme and Budget for 1973-1974 and, more particularly, from the Draft  Medium-Term Outline Plan for 1973-1978, The Medium-Term Plan, in particular, should  be a policy document based on a thorough critical analysis of the different programme com-  ponents and on the conclusions of this analysis, Furthermore it should be concise in its  presentation, Even if efforts have been made to establish points of contact and co-ordination  between the different programme sectors in the form of five so-called intersectoral pro-  grammes, the heterogeneity of the Plan is still far too great,
20, 5 The Finnish delegation is, therefore, of the opinion that it is too early to lay down  final outlines of the programme of Unesco for 1973-1978 as suggested and would like to see
5  at the next session of the General Conference a proposal for a long-term programme charac-  terized by integration and concentration and with a clearly-defined philosophy as its back-  bone,
20,6 How, then, would it be possible to establish the points of focus in the programme  which we are looking for? One of the sources from which Unesco can draw in this process  of analysis are the debates and the conclusions of a number of important conferences which  have been arranged by Unesco during the last few years, The Finnish Government had the  great pleasure of acting as host for one of these conferences, the first regional conference  on cultural policy organized by Unesco, the Intergovernmental Conference on Cultural  Policies in Europe. One of the conclusions of the Helsinki Conference concerns the contri-  bution which Unesco can make to the creation of conditions favourable to peace, security  and co-operation in general by promoting regional co-operation in education, science and  culture, Another important outcome of the Conference was the general acceptance of the  principles of cultural equality and of cultural policy as a part of general social policy and  planning, As we see it, one of the most important conclusions to be drawn from the Con-  ference on Cultural Policies in Europe is that the universal principle of equal access ta and  participation in culture must be applied when drawing up Unesco's cultural programme.  This would mean a concentration in the programme on projects for the development of cul-  tural policy measures, whereas the focus has before been on so-called cultural studies,  Non-governmental organizations should also be involved in projects which aim at developing  efficient cultural policies with cultural equality in mind,
20,7 Some of the recommendations of the Helsinki Conference were also echoed and taken  up at another big event this year, the Third International Conference on Adult Education, in  Tokyo, The Conference not only discussed adult education as a means of achieving social,  cultural and educational equality but also education for such equality, The Finnish delega-  tion would like to see great priority be accorded in Unesco's programme on the one hand to  projects which increase the equality of educational opportunities, such as projects concern-  ed with pre-school and adult education, and, on the other hand, to projects concerned with  the objectives and content of education, By the latter we refer particularly to projects  which contribute to the development of international understanding and co-operation and new  educational strategies designed to foster social awareness and the will to participate in  economie, social and cultural development, Such projects should also be associated with  and promoted by the participation of various interested organizations, The Finnish dele-  gation would like to refer here specifically to the use of the co-operative movement, for  example, for adult literacy programmes,
20,8 The Helsinki and the Tokyo Conferences both discussed the protection and improve-  ment of the environment, The Finnish delegation was one of the initiators of the project  Man and his Environment, which was approved at the fifteenth session of the General Con-  ference, We weicome the fact that this project, which has for a long time been neglected  in the programmes of Unesco, is now included in the proposed intersectoral programme of  "Man and the Environment" with the Man and the Biosphere programme as its other com-  ponent,
20.9 We consider, however, as we have underlined before, that greater stress should be  given in this programme to the socio-cultural factors that determine the interrelations of  man and his environment and to the contribution which the social sciences can make, Due  regard should also be given in the planning of the programme to the recommendations of  the United Nations Conference on the Environment, which was held in Stockholm this year,
20, 10 Finally, the Finnish delegation would like to draw attention to a suggestion made by  the President of Finland, which might deserve serious attention in the consideration of  Unesco's long-term programme, In a public speech in October 1971 President Kekkonen  referred both to Unesco's rôle in the field of sport and to the Olympic Games, He stressed  the potential contribution of sport to iniernational understanding and goodwill, He also spoke  about the social and political implications and responsibilities of sport and he said that this
98   field of human activity should also be taken into account in socio-cultural development  policies. Sport and physical culture are and should be concerned with improving man and  his society and should therefore not only be left to the responsibility of those who regard  sport as an end in itself, Democracy - democratic responsibility and control and open  public information - should also take its place in the world of sport, Inlooking for remedies  at the international level President Kekkonen referred to Unesco, which has already engaged  in the active promotion of sport. He thought that the tasks which have been monopolized by  the International Olympic Committee would more appropriately belong to Unesco, ‘This pro-  posal made by President Kekkonen has since been widely discussed as presenting a possi-  bility of redirecting the power of sport towards the promotion of international understanding  and to reappraising the rôle of sport in uniting the world. The Finnish delegation wished to  bring President Kekkonen's suggestion to the attention of the General Conference tor pos-  sible action at a later stage,
20, 11 The Finnish delegation would also like to refer to the discussion concerning the work-  ing methods of our Organization, We have noted that many other delegations are also  worried about the very heavy and time-consuming decision-making process of Unesco, We  join in the efforts towards a simplification of this process which are under way both in the  Member States and in the Executive Board of Unesco. Without wishing to repeat in detail  what we said at the sixteenth session of the General Conference, the Finnish delegation  sincerely hopes that these efforts will lead to concrete results and concrete decisions.  Thank you, Mr, Chairman,
21, Le PRESIDENT. -  Je remercie Mme Väänänen et je donne la parole à S. Exc, M. Pablo Neruda, chef de  la délégation du Chili.
(22.1) M. NERUDA (Chili). - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Nombre d'entre nous auraient peut-être eu plaisir à présider cette grande assemblée de  l'Unesco. C'est à l'honorable délégué du Japon, M, Toru Haguiwara, que cet honneur est échu. Je  tiens à exprimer la satisfaction que j'en ressens et à dire avec quelle joie la délégation chilienne  a accueilli cette désignation. Le Chili voit dans le Japon, qui appartient, comme lui, à la zone du  Pacifique, un grand pays dont la haute civilisation - héritée du passé - se trouve aujourd'hui repré-  sentée ici par le Président de la Conférence générale. C'est parce que nous apprécions la volonté  de paix de votre grand pays et le dynamisme de son développement moderne que nous sommes heu-  reux, Monsieur le Président, que la Conférence générale vous ait choisi pour diriger ses travaux  parmi toutes les éminentes personnalités qui représentent ici tant de pays. Qu'il me soit également  permis de rendre hommage à notre Directeur général, M. Maheu, auquel incombe, nous lé recon-  naissons tous, la tâche presque irréalisable de soutenir l'immense édifice qu'est l'Unesco,
(22.2) En regardant un jour un défilé populaire dans le nord du Chili, je fus surpris de voir que  les jeunes gens récemment appelés sous les drapeaux étaient de très petite taille. Il me semblait  qu'autrefois les soldats étaient plus grands.  - Je me trompe peut-être, dis-je au colonel.  - Vous avez raison, me répondit-il, Ils sont de plus en plus petits. En une trentaine d'années,  la taille des hommes du contingent a baissé de deux pouces environ. Si cela continue, nous aurons  bientôt une armée de nains,
(22.3) Le Chili est un pays où l'enseignement a toujours eu un niveau élevé, Les gens y sont ins-  truits. De grands humanistes y ont passé une bonne partie de leur vie : Andrès Bello, Hostos, Sar-  miento, Rubén Dario, Alberdi ..., sans parler des nationaux : Valentin Letelier, Gabriela Mistral,  Nous sommes une république constellée d'étoiles. Mais cela ne nous a pas empêchés de connaître  la servitude, un régime proche du servage (1'"inquilinaje') et les méfaits de la sous-alimentation.  Les enfants ne buvaient pas de lait, Les paysans et les ouvriers n'absorbaient de prôtéines que les  jours de fête. Tout cela ressemblait à un suicide général. Mais, au fond, il s'agissait d'un géno-  cide insidieux qui, avec son abominable persistance, a fini par priver de sa taille normale unena-  tion tout entière.
(22.4) Aussi notre oligarchie se moqua-t-elle bien du Dr Allende quand celui-ci, avant de devenir  Président du Chili, offrit de distribuer gratuitement un demi-litre de lait par jour à tous les enfants  chiliens. La promesse a pourtant été tenue. Aujourd'hui, tous les enfants du Chili reçoivent gratui-  tement du gouvernement populaire un demi-litre de lait par jour.
(22.5) Il n'est donc pas étonnant que, sur les 445, 000 élèves entrés en 1965 dans les établissements  d'enseignement élétnentaire, il n'en soit plus resté en 1969 que 231. 000, Les autres avaient aban-  donné leurs études, Les statistiques montraient que 900, 000 Chiliens de plus de quinze ans n'avaient  jamais fréquenté l'école, ce qui revient à dire qu'il y avait 14 % d'analphabètes, Après letriomphe  populaire, l'enseignement de base toucha plus de deux millions d'enfants et, en 1972, il en touche  plus de 3.500, 000. L'enseignement secondaire classique a d'abord touché 300. 000 adolescents et  son taux d'expansion est supérieur à 13 %. Pour l'enseignement technique et professionnel, le taux  d'expansion a été de 19 % en 1972, et le nombre des inscriptions à l'université a augmenté de plus  de 30 %.
(22.6) Je n'éprouve aucun plaisir particulier à citer ces chiffres, qui, pourtant, nous font hon-  neur, car je n'at pas le goût des chiffres, Je suis beaucoup plus impressionné par le bidon quoti-  dien de lait, par cette révolution du lait qui a présidé à l'essor des écoles, à l'essor du livre, au  développement physique et intellectuel des enfants du Chili,
(22.7) Je suis convaincu que la lutte à mener en faveur de l'éducation et des objectifs del'Unesco  va de pair avec l'action qui doit tendre à l'élimination du colonialisme héréditaire et dunéo-colonia-  lisme de date récente, Le colonialisme existe aujourd'hui encore, qu'il s'agisse d'un colonialisme  externe ou de ce colonialisme interne de certaines classes sociales dont les membres s'autorisent  de droits héréditaires pour opprimer leurs compatriotes.
(22.8) Une chose m'a particulièrement frappé quand j'ai lu les instructions des dignitaires nazis  en Pologne : ceux-ci se proposaient d'exterminer entièrement la classe des intellectuels pour ne  laisser subsister que quelques milliers de Polonais qui travailleraient la terre. Ils voulaient ré-  duire la Pologne 2 une population de serfs, et l'éducation devint alors l'un des aspects de la lutte  clandestine. La nation polonaise tenait à survivre, La même situation s'est présentée dans beau-  coup de pays d'Amérique latine, où les seigneurs locaux ne voulaient employer que des "inquilinos"  pour l'exploitation de leurs terres ou de leurs mines. Il s'ensuit que le mouvement en faveur de  l'éducation en Amérique latine doit être considéré comme un phénomène révolutionnaire, lié à la  survie du peuple, à l'âme nationale menacée par ses anciens ennemis,
(22.9) Le meilleur de ce que l'Unesco a fait ou entend faire risque de disparaître dans les flammes  de ce napalm que des gens sans foi ni loi déversent en tel ou tel point du monde sur des populations  sans défense.
(22,10) Ces jours-ci une grande société minière monopoliste, agissant au mépris de la souverai-  neté du Chili, a réussi, en France, 2 faire mettre l'embargo sur un lot de cuivre chilien, L'Unesco  n'a rien à voir Jà-dedans, me dira-t-on, Eh bien, si! Elle a, en fait, beaucoup à y voir ; car, si  ces forces ténébreuses parvenaient à s'emparer du cuivre chilien, les petits Chiliens n'auraient  plus ni pain, ni lait, ni livres de lecture, ni écoles. Telle est la dure réalité,
(22,11) Partout nous voyons apparaître, quand nous parlons de nos idéaux, le spectre de la famine,  de la sous-alimentation ou de la guerre. Cependant, en cette époque désespérément cruelle et belli-  queuse, nous avons foncièrernent foi dans une institution comme l'Unesco, qui persiste dans ses  nobles desseins malgré les déceptions et les incertitudes. Ce combat pour que survive ce qu'il y  a de meilleur dans le monde est tout simplement nécessaire ; il répond à un véritable impératif  biologique. Je suis loin d'être un individualiste : je crois aue l'homme n'est libre que duns la mesure  où il est collectiviste. Née d'une entente internationale et chargée, en vertu de son mandat inter-  national, d'appliquer de grands principes de construction et de reconstruction, notre Unesco a  peut-être beaucoup de points faibles, mais ses efforts et ses réalisations témoignent de la portée  géographique et morale de son action,
(22.12) Messieurs les délégués, il y a bien des années, on me demanda de venir à une réunion d'un  syndicat, à Santiago du Chili. Je fis savoir que j'avais l'intention de m'y rendre, mais j'oubliai  bientôt de quelle invitation il s'agissait et même quels étaient ceux qui m'avaient invité. Je me di-  rigeai vers le lieu du rendez-vous sans avoir la moindre idée de ceux qui m'attendaient, J'entrai  dans une sorte de catacombe, passant à travers des restes de légumes et de poissons ; je me rendis  compte plus tard qu'il s'agissait d'une association de manutentionnaires d'un marché. Grande fut  ma surprise en voyant un auditoire aussi primitif, Ils n'étaient pas plus d'une quarantaine. Tous  étaient nu-pieds. Ils croisaient leurs bras puissants sur les sacs qui leur servaient de vêtements.  En voyant ainsi ceux qui m'attendaient, je me sentis intimidé. Au moment où j'étais sorti de chez  moi, j'avais pris au hasard un de mes livres, La seule chose que je pouvais faire était de leurlire  Ties vers en leur expliquant un peu ce que j'avais voulu exprimer. Mon livre s'intitulait "España en  el corazén'' ; c'était un ouvrage difficile dans lequel la méditation côtoyait la poésie.
(22.13) Je suis incapable de réciter de mémoire aucun de mes vers, et je n'avais pas sur moi  d'autre livre que celui-là, Faisant contre mauvaise fortune bon coeur, je me mis à le lire, et
102   comme aucun écho, aucun applaudissement ne se faisaient entendre pour m'orienter, je me plon-  geai de plus en plus dans la lecture de mon propre ouvrage, essayant d'atteindre ces âmes qui me  paraissaient si éloignées de moi. Mais vint le moment où mon livre prenait fin, L'ayant refermé,  je regardai devant moi. Avec leurs visages de pierre et leurs tabliers de grosse toile, mes audi-  teurs étaient aussi silencieux et aussi immobiles qu'auparavant, Puis, au fond de la salle, l'un de  ces hommes se leva : "Camarade poète, me dit-il, je tiens à vous déclarer - et sa voix se cassait -  que personne ne nous avait jamais dit pareilles choses, que nous ne les savions pas, que nous  n'avions jamais éprouvé pareille émotion. " L'homme ne put poursuivre, car sa voix s'étrangla dans  un grand sanglot. Je jetai un regard sur la salle : mon rude auditoire n'avait pas bougé, mais tous  avaient des larmes dans les yeux.
(22.14) Je pense que nos projets, le rayonnement de notre Conférence et de notre Organisation  doivent s'étendre à tous les recoins de l'oubli. La parole doit traverser toutes les frontières obs-  cures. Et quand, dans une partie quelconque du monde, une larme du peuple aura rendu hommage  à notre action, alors nous aurons atteint notre but et accompli notre destin commun de représen-  tants de la culture universelle,
23. Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie 3. Exc, M, Pablo Neruda et j'invite S. Exc, M. Chiwanga, ministre de  l'Education nationale et chef de la délégation de Tanzanie, à prendre la parole.
24,1 Mr, CHIWANGA (United Republic of Tanzania):  Mr. President, on behalf of my delegation, I ehould like to be associated with my col-  leagues who have congratulated you upon your unanimous election as President of this Con-  ference, I wish also to take this opportunity of thanking the Director-General for the lucid  introduction he made to this debate in his speech yesterday, especially as regards the need  to overhaul the philosophy, approach and methods of aid to development,
24, 2 May I also, on behalf of my country, welcome to this Conference, for the first time,  the legitimate delegation of China, whose seat has been illegitimately occupied for many  years, Now that Unesco has righted the wrong it has been doing to this great country for  so long, we look forward to the great contribution this great nation will make towards the  work of our Organization,
24, 3 In my statement, Mr. President, 1 intend to concentrate mainly on the report of the  Director-General and the Draft Medium-Term Outline Plan for 1973-1978, as the other  documen will be more adequately dealt with in the Commissions and the other established  committees of this Conference,
24, 4 On the whole, Mr. President, we can say that to a large measure and largely due to  the dedicated work of our international staff and the co-operation of Member States, we  have succeeded in achieving what we set ourselves out to do iwo years ago. The Unesco  Secretariat has, therefore, my country's encouragement to continue with renewed vigour  to serve the Organization in the years ahead,
24,5 We feel strongly that long-term planning should be an integral permanent feature of  Unesco programmes, because it helps us to project the Organization's work into the future,  For this reason, the 1973-1978 Medium-Term Outline Plan meets our general approval,
24,6 We have been aware - as may be seen in the Director-General's report - that there  has been a growing relationship between Unesco and international organizations, besides  those in the United Nations system, for example the growing and good co-operation between  the Organization of African Unity and Unesco, We consider this as a very important develop-  ment, These organizations, most of which are regional in character, are concerned with  political, social and economic issues in their various areas, Closer relationship between  them and Unesco is essential, as it underlines the identification of this Organization with  regional aspirations which, in our view, should be one of the major bases of Unesco pro-  grammes,
24,7 Turning now to the sectoral programmes, Mr, President, we note with appreciation  the report of the International Commission for Education Development entitled: Learning  To Be. Our country was one of those honoured by the Commission through a visit by no  lesser a person than its Chairman himself, H. E. Mr, Edgar Faure, now French Minister  for Social Affairs, We cannot forget the fruitful exchange of views this Commission had  with us especially on our Kiswahili language policy and the implementation of our five years  old Education for Self-Reliance Policy, referred to elsewhere in the report itself,
24,8 Mr. President, we have noted areas of agreement reached by the Commission on the  strategies of education, the problem posed by the growing percentages of global illiteracy,  the social commitment and the renewal of education,
24,9 We appreciate the frankness of the report in its findings that, among other things, for  instance, Africa ranks lowest among the continents in percentage educational attendance at  primary, secondary and higher education levels, We understand that the Commission's  conclusions are general in nature and are in the form of guidelines. To a great extent their  application will finally be the responsibility of individual Member States, each of which will  have to take into consideration its peculiar situation, Still, this does not exonerate the inter -  national community from its responsibilities, As the Pearson Report of three years ago -  "Partnership in Development'' - aptly put it, mankind cannot be indifferent to problems  facing various parts of this globe.
24, 10 The last biennium saw the first concerted action on international aid to education for  refugees, with Unesco taking the lead among the agencies in the United Nations system, and  recognition of the rôle the liberation movements have to play in this connexion, We would  wish to express our appreciation to all those that made this possible and hope that this is  merely the beginning, We look forward to even greater activities in this respect in future,
24, 11 Mr, President, we are sorry to note that the Adult Education and Literacy pro-  grammes seem now to be at a crossroads, On the one hand, the 17 C/4 and the 17 C/5  documents advocate a period of stabilization to allow for what is termed assessment of the  functional literacy programme, On the other hand, the expansion of the programme has  been advocated by the recent Unesco Third World Conference on Adult Education held in  Tokyo last July, and this view is supported by those who experience the consequences of  illiteracy.
24, 12 There are many experiences already gained in the process of executing the functional  literacy programmes, which are so useful that they need not wait to be evaluated before  they can be applied. It is our view that this Organization must do all it car to help Member  States to make immediate use of these experiences where desirable,
24,13 The renewal of education, as advocated by Unesco in its programmes, has very wide  implications, It involves the development of curricula, production of appropriate teaching  materials, and the training of teachers, Our experience has shown that the production of  books and teaching materials is the most difficult to achieve, We shall be glad not only to  benefit from but also to share experience with other Member States, either multilaterally  or bilaterally, on this question,
24, 14 The Unesco/UNDP secondary school-teachers' training programme has been going.  on for over a decade now in several Member States, Our country, having been one of the  early beneficiaries of this programme, which is about co come to an end, wishes particu-  larly to thank this Organization for its vision in starting this programme, It is helping a  number of Member States to be self-reliant in the much needed secondary, and even uni-  versity, teachers, If Unesco were now to follow this up with large programmes to assist  Member States in the production of book and teaching materials, it would carry the teacher -  training programme to its logical conclusion,
24,15 A new section in the Education Sector programme entitled ""Pre-University Science  and Technological Education'' gives greater recognition to technical education that it justly  deserves,
24,16 It is an accepted necessity that there be an optimum balance in Unesco programmes  between training of technicians and technologists. In this connexion, I should like to appeal to  Unesco to further strengthen its co-operation especially with those Member States which  are presently in the process of developing their own technical education programmes, Such  programmes should be modelled to suit the needs of the beneficiary countries.
24,17 Mr. President, I now turn to the Natural Sciences and Their Application to Develop-  ment, Much has already been done in the Sector by this Organization, but still more re-  mains to be done. This is mainly because the Natural Sciences is the field in which very  rapid progress is being made and consequently a redefinition of goals and targets needs  must be regularly undertaken, In the past few years, space programmes haye been hailed  as man's greatest scientific achievements, but now the world's attention is being drawn to  a much wider, and from our voint of view a more important programme, namely "Man and  His Environment", This fact became particularly evident at the United Nations Conference  on the Human Environment held in Stockholm last June, Mr, President, although that Con-  ference was not organized by this agency of the United Nations, Unesco was adequately  associated with it, and a good number of its Member States participated in its deliberations,  As the environmental programmes recommended at the Stockholm Conference - like our  own Man and the Biosphere Programme are largely long-term programmes, we expect our  future outline plans to be enriched from them.
24,18 Mr, President, having through our national committee been associated withthe Inter-  national Hydrological Decade programme since its inception in 1965, we are happy to see  its long-term outline plan for the future for the period beyond 1974, The great demand for  the supply and control of water for human consumption in nearly all parts of the world,  particularly with the growth of the world population and very rapidindustrialization requires  that this programme should be embarked upon with even greater vigour, The burden of its  implementation - as should indeed be the case with all such long-term and involved pro-  grammes - should be shared fairly between this Organization and Member States, and not  left mainly to Member States alone, as seems to have been the case with this programme  so far,
24,19 Mr, President, inadequacy of resources is the watchword in this Organization when  we consider any programme, We think that in the Science Sector, probably more than in  any other Sector, this problem can be effectively overcome by the utilization of resources  in programmes that will promote human and natural resources for development, rather  than by engaging in the purely theoretical sciences, We believe that there are institutions  with much greater resources than Unesco which would welcome implementing these pro- ,  grammes for the benefit of the international community, Part of the drain on Unesco's  meagre resources would thus be avoided, leaving the funds free to be utilized for more  pressing programmes, We beliave that if this Organization made the effort it could find  such institutions.
24,20 Mr. President, may I now refer to the implementation of resolution 8 of the six-  teenth General Conference on colonialism, peace and racism, to which I made a passing  reference earlier when I spoke of increased aid to and recognition of Liberation Movements.  To some, two years may seem too short a time to expect this Organization to implement  effectively what may in some quarters be referred to as a very involved resolution, What  Unesco has done in the implementation of this resolution inthe last biennium, Mr, President,  should be a basis for further recommendations at this session of the General Conference  for even more far-reaching activities in the future, Andtobe more specific about Unesco's  programme in this regard, let me point out, Mr, President, that while studies and meetings  may have their place those who are being denied human rights expect more than that from us.
24, 21 While welcoming the creation of a Co-ordination Unit for Human Rights in the Social  Sciences, Humanities and Culture Sector, we hope that it will be concerned with the imple-  mentation of actual programmes and not serve merely as a post office.
24, 22 With regard to cultural programmes, we note with appreciation that these are in  line with the recommendations of the Unesco International Conference on Culture held in  Venice about two years ago. We expect none the less that special attention will continue to  be paid to recommendations made at regional and sub-regional meetings in this field. Cul-  ture as expressed in the forms of language, art and music, to mention only a few examples,  is so diverse that there is no alternative to taking those factors into consideration.
24. 23 ‘The Communication Sector has now a new programme on communication policies,  It is appreciated that the right of Member States to formulate their own communications  policy is recognized under this new programme, We expect this Organization to play an  important co-ordinating rôle in respect of multilateral exchange of useful information  among States, especially in view of the rapid development of modern mass communication  media,
24, 24 Mr, President, the International Book Year in 1972 has revealed the great dearth  that exists in the world of the silent friend, The BOOK, It is indeed proper that this came  after the 1970 International Education Year, The interest aroused in books should however  be sustained, through programmes which will make it possible for people, especially the  new literates, to have books to read at reasonable costs.
24, 25 We have noted with satisfaction that plans are under way to recognize 1974 as the  United Nations World Population Year. In view of the great relevance of Unesco population  programmes, we believe this Organization's Statistics Division will be deeply involved in  the Year's programmes, We hope that the co-operation to be sought from Member States  in this connexion will be sought in time, bearing in mind that a good number of Member  States have limited facilities in statistical work,
24, 26 Mr, President, my country has been associated with Unesco for over a decade, in-  cluding eight years as a Member of its Executive Board, Like others in a similar position  we can claim to have an inside picture of this Organization, It is in these circumstances  therefore that I would wish to conclude my address on a note of appeal,
24, 27 Mr, President, we all know that the world has been plagued in recent times with  international monetary crises, It is our solemn wish that despite these financial difficulties  all Member States will assist this Organization to maintain at least its optimum growth rate,  bearing in mind that Unesco budgets are very modest indeed compared with the mission  that we have set for Unesco in its work, I thank you, Mr. President.
25, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you Mr, Chiwanga, I now give the floor to H, E, Mr, Hussein Onn, Minister of  Education and head of the Malaysian delegation,
26,1 Mr, HUSSEIN ONN (Malaysia):  Distinguished heads and members of delegations, ladies and gentlemen, May I, first  of all, Mr, President congratulate you on your election to the presidency of the General  Conference, I would also very much like to associate myself withthe expressions of appre-  ciation and thanks to the Director-General and his staff and the mernbers of the Executive  Board for the many achievements made by the Organization during this current biennium,  We in South East Asia were very happy indeed that the Third Regional Conference of Minis-  ters of Education and those responsible for Economic Planning in Asia was this year held  in a Member State of South East Asia, namely Singapore. During this Conference my  country was very fortunate to have the first official visit of our Director-General, and I  sincerely trust that he was as happy to visitus as we were happy and privileged to receive him.
26, 2 This current biennium has heen, unfortunately, a very difficult one for all concerned,  In the face of a still widening gap between the few rich and the many developing countries,  there was - and still is - the crisis in the international monetary system, which was ac-  companied by rather disappointing results at the Third United Nations Conference on Trade  and Development, held at Santiago earlier this year, It is indeed sad to know that the  majority of the rich countries have not yet fulfilled the target set by the United Nations on  aid to underdeveloped countries at 1% of their gross national product (GNP), and that the  official development assistance has remained at about 0,35% of their GNP, that is, less  than half of the officially agreed rate,
26.3 Mr. President, I would like to say frankly that we in the developing world are rather  concerned that these unfortunate developments in the international situation have had their  repercussions on the programme activities and budget of this Organization during the cur-  rent biennium, There is, we are .informed, an estimated deficit of $8 million - or if Ire-  member our Director-General's statement yesterday, it may perhaps come to about $111/2  million - in the Approved Budget, This will lead to cancellation or postponement of some  of the approved programmes, It is the sincere wish and hope of all developing countries  that in the forthcoming debate on the budget for the next biennum the 130 Member States of  this Organization, be they rich or poor, developed or developing, will resolve to co-operate  more closely with one another and to work with greater determination to eradicate and  eliminate the real enemies of democracy and freedom, which are ignorance, disease, poverty  and frustration, from which so many in the developing world are still suffering,
26,4 Mr. President, I am confident that I am speaking for all the developing countries  when I say that we place a great deal of our hopes in the activities of this Organization. As  Member States it is our obligation to give this Organization our closest co-operation and  it is our responsibility to ensure that it fulfils the rôle and purposes for which it was set  up. I would like to refer to the Director-General's remarks on the rôle and responsibilities  of this Organization in documents 17 C/4 and 17 C/5, Inthese reports, the Director-General  has expressed the hope that Unesco can best serve Member States as the "common fund of  experience and thinking" by giving, in addition to its promotional and experimental activi-  ties, what he would like to call "technical assistance in regard to policy", And in his clos-  ing speech at the Twenty-fifth Anniversary celebrations of this Organization, the Director-  General also hoped that this Organization would act as the conscience of the world by  promoting a universal reflection on the major problems of current civilization and serving  as a centre for the guidance of thinking on the major problems of man's present condition,  These are very commendable aspirations indeed and they deserve our very serious consi-  deration. As he rightly pointed out, they will depend on two prerequisites, namely: the  confidence and willingness of Member States, and understanding and competence on the part  of the Secretariat.
26.5 These two prerequisites, which are fundamental to the establishment of a proper and  effective relationship between Unesco and Member States are, however, interrelated and  should be interpreted to apply both ways, The General Conference has very wisely resolved  at its sixteenth session to involve National Commissions more and more in the activities of  this Organization, On its part, the Secretariat has hitherto been involving the specialists  in Member States in meetings of experts and as consultants, What I would like to suggest,  for the consideration of the Director-General, is a further extension of the present arrange-  ments he has made to mobilize and involv . specialists in Member States, This can be done  by making them associate consultants for consultation and for temporary service with this  Organization, without the danger of Member States losing their services permanently. Such  a scheme may lead to greater co-operation between Unesco and Member States through  greater involvement, It may even result in a reduction in the costs of permanent staff in  the Secretariat,
26,6 Mr, President, it is important that specialists in Member States should not be debar-  red from serving as experts in their own countries, On tl.is point, I have been informed  that in the discussions on the problem of "brain drain” from developing countries the re-
5  cruitment procedures of the United Nations Development Programme preclude the appoint-  ment of experts to serve as such in their own countries, even on a temporary basis, H  this is true, then I cannot see the rationale for these recruitment procedures. I would,  therefore, like to suggest that the Director-General be invited to ldok into this matter, It  does hurt the feelings of professional circles in Member States to be told that experts must  always come from outside,
26.7 Mr, President, I have suggested the creation of an international or regional pool of  experts from Member States to serve wherever they are needed and to work more closely  with the experts from this Organization in order that the programmes can be more effec-  tively and efficiently implemented, There has been, without any doubt, an increased work-  load imposed on the Secretariat from the operational activities, financed from extra-budgetary  resources, particularly since the introduction of Country ‘programming in 1971, Ishare the  concern expressed by the Executive Board in paragraph 7 of its report in document 17 cls  that there was ''insufficient staff available to deal with the increased workload, and this  tended to lead to a deterioration in the quality of work", Iequally share the concernexpres-  sed by the Director-General when he frankly admitted that there are no procedures or instru-  ments in the Secretariat for the preparation of long-term planning, and that neither is there  a unit or staff to deal with Country programming. He has further stated that Unesco does  not have the preliminary knowledge of the problems nor the staff to deal with interdisciplinary  programmes, such as population and prevention of drugs abuse, Perhaps the most disturb-  ing admission made by the Director-General in connexion with the policy of decentralization  is that some members of the Secretariat have shown a reluctance to move into the field as  part of the programme of rotation between Headquarters and the field staff, This lack of  mobility will impede the policy of decentralization. It will also deny to the staff of the  Secretariat intimate knowledge of the problems and needs of Member States, There are,  therefore, serious deficiencies in the staffing of the Secretariat, which must be rectified if  this Organization is to fulfil its duties and responsibilities,
26, 8 Mr, President, on the subject of Country programming, which was introduced for the  first time in 1971 by UNDP, I am of the view that the exercise could be co-ordinated with  the Regular Programme of this Organization. These two types of programmes could be  planned to complement and reinforce each other in order that the intellectual guidance and  operational support that this Organization can offer to Member States can help to stimulate  and improve national efforts, By working in closer collaboration with governments con-  cerned in the Country programming exercise, this Organization is bound to gain a better  understanding of and insight into the problems and needs of Member States, It can also  secure a better co-ordination of external aid to Member States concerned, I do not see the  danger that this Organization, because of excessive concentration in Country programming,  may become merely a technical executing agency and lose sight of its real purpose, Nor  will there be, Mr, President, a danger of a reduction in regional or sub-regional under-  takings because of this emphasis on Country programming, As the Director-General has  so rightly pointed out in paragraph 68 of the introduction to document 17 C/4 there are prob-  lems, which transcend national frontiers and which "'call for the setting up at world level  of a rational system of co-operation among the individual political units'. It is therefore  important that whilst this Organization is assisting Member States in their Country pro-  grammes, it should encourage greater co-operation in inter-regional or sub-regionalunder-  takings among Member States, whichhave established close social, cultural and economic ties,
26,9 Mr, President, in this connexion, I would like to refer the General Conference to re-  solution 17, unanimously adopted at the Third Asian Regional Conference held in Singapore  in May 1971, This resolution called for closer co-operation between Unesco and other United  Nations Specialized Agencies and the South East Asian Ministers of Education Organization  (SEAMEO) in connexion with the regional projects in education and science, established by  the South East Asian Member States since 1966. I might also add that at the fifteenth ses-  sion of the Secretaries-General of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN)  held in September 1972, it was decided to ask UNDP to provide technical assistance for  ASEAN regional projects, I therefore suggest that this spirit of regional or sub-regional
108   [1 \  co-operation, as exhibited by SEAMEO and ASEAN and other sub-group organizations else-  where, should be fully exploited and mobilized to the mutual benefit and interest of both this  Organization and the Member States concerned,
26. 10 Mr, President, I would also like to draw the attention of the General Conference to  another important resolution of the Third Asian Regional Conference, I am referring to  the resolution on the setting up of the Asian Centre for Educational Innovation for Develop-  ment in Bangkok. This resolution in my view offers the greatest promise in achieving the  policy of renewing and regenerating the educational systems and programmes in the Asian  region, Iam glad to say that in anticipation of this development at the regional level,  Malaysia has taken steps to establish in 1973 the Educational Development Centre, which  is referred to in document 17 C/5 as the National Centre for Curriculum Reform. The  Malaysian Educational Development Centre plans not only to introduce, co-ordinate and  evaluate all curricular activities and innovations in Malaysia, but also to collaborate with  the Asian Centre for Educaticnal Innovation for Development and other curriculum centres  in the region and elsewhere, As some members may be aware, a planning meeting is being  convened in Paris towards the end of this year, under the auspices of the International Asso-  ciation for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement, to form an International Curriculum  Organization, and to establish international co-operation in curriculum activities. The  Malaysian Centre-has been suggested as one of the centres for promoting activities in curri-  cular innovations and Malaysia sincerely hopes to make its contribution to this important  field of educational reform,
26. 11 Mr. President, on the important subject of priorities for this Organization, Malaysia  fully supports the conviction of the Director-General, which was confirmed by the General  Conference in resolution 7, 11 at its sixteenth session, that '"Unesco’'s mission is essential-  ly a cultural one and its centre of gravity is destined, in a felatively distant future, to shift  from education, where it is located at present, to science, and from science to culture",  The wisdom of these words of our Director-General on the important rôle of culture has  been borne out by the experience of my country since gaining independence in 1957, In the  early years of our independence, the country concentrated on the economic growth of the  country, It soon discovered that economic growth should not be regarded as an end in itself,  especially in a situation where it has to face the problem of welding together a multi-racial  population, Since 1969 Malaysia has been embarked on a policy of restructuring a new  society and of eradicating poverty and redressing imbalances amongst the ethnic groups in  the country. Increased attention is therefore being given to the qualitative aspects of growth,  and economic growth is no longer regarded as an end in itself but as a means to produce  the resources required for structural and social growth, We are confident that our new  policy will give to our people in Malaysia something more, not only to live with but also to  live for,
26. 12 It is in the light of this experience that my country is grateful to Unesco for the sup-  port that it has given to the study of the Malay culture project in the South East Asian and  Malagasy regions, The countries in this region are planning with the help of Unesco to re-  discover their rich cultural heritage. When the project is launched, we in the region would  also hope to re-establish the values and the traditions of our indigenous culture and our past  civilization,
26, 13 Mr, President, the Director-General has reminded the General Conference that the  provision of assistance to developing countries is one of the essential undertakings, if not  the essential obligation, of the United Nations system, One of the most pressing problems  facing developing countries, is the predominantly young people and the increasing number  of children in the pre-school age group. The problem of pre-school education is fast be-  coming a very serious problem not only to many developing countries but also to a number  of developed countries, It was, in this context, that the General Conference, adopted at  its sixteenth session resolution 5, 53, authorizing Unesco to continue co-operation with the  United Nations Children's Fund in projects to promote pre-school education, I am glad to  note in the Director-General's Report for 1971 that consultant missions have been sent to
5  study the problem on the spot and, in document 17 C/5, that a meeting of experts is being  planned with a view to drawing up a medium-term programme for the next biennium, I  would, however, like to draw attention to two important statements on this subject, The  first is an article on "Protein Malnutrition: Quandary of the Second Development Decade",  in the Unesco Features of August 1972, which states inter alia: "Recent researchers have  confirmed what scientists long suspected: that protein starvation during the critical period  of pre-natal or infant development produces damage to the brain structure and consequent-  ly to its functions and this danger is permanent, No amount of extra protein in later life  will make up for this crippling deficiency'. The second statement of importance is con-  tained in Chapter 8 of the Report of the International Commission on the Development of  Education, under "Innovations and Search for Alternatives", Section 5, in which itis stated  that "The education of pre-school age children is an essential pre-condition to any educa-  tion and cultural policy'' and "The development of education for pre-school age children  must become one of the main objectives for educational strategies in the 1970s". Finally,  in his reflection on the Report of the International Commission, the Director-General  has added in document 17 C/47 that "Pre-school education is a decisive factor in the true  democratization of education".
26.14 Mr, President, in the light of these statements and findings, I would strongly urge  that Unesco extend its co-operation, not only with the United Nations Children's Fund but  also with other agencies in the United Nations system, namely FAO, WHO and the World  Food Program. A global and interdisciplinary strategy and programme is urgently needed  to meet the problems of pre-school education, We must plan to save the many millions of  pre-school children, particularly in developing countries, from irreparable brain damage  through protein starvation. We should endeavour to prevent them from becoming potential  drop-outs in our school systems and thus becoming permanent liabilities to society, It is  my view that the funds so spent on saving the millions of pre-school children in the early  stages of their development will be offset by the savings of expenditure that may be needed  for essential social services on them at a later stage. This point is one of the main con-  clusions in my country's study of the problem drop-outs in the formal school system of  Malaysia,
26.15 Mr, President, it has become a convention of the General Conference to adopt a  theme for each session of the General Conference, In view of the importance of pre-school  education as one of the fundamental strategies in the 1970s, I would like to suggest to the  General Conference that it declare 1974 as Childhood Education Year, with special empha-  sis on pre-school and primary education and education on population problems, The theme  that I have suggested for the eighteenth session in 1974 falls in line with resolution 2683 of  the Twenty-fifth General Assembly of the United Nations, which has declared 1974 as the  World Population Year,
26.16 Mr, President, distinguished heads and members of national delegations, ladies and  gentlemen, I have tried in my speech to be realistic and constructive, Though the results  of the First Development Decade have not been as successful as we had all hoped, this  Organization, in union with the other agencies of the United Nations system, rightly decided  to enter the 1970s with great hopes and determination, when it adopted the International  Developinent Strategy for the Second Development Decade, During this Second Development  Decade, it is, I am sure, the sincere hope of all the Member States of this Organization  that the cry of mankind for one world of human rights, security and peace for all will ring  in the minds and hearts of all Member States, be they rich or poor, I would therefore like  to conclude my speech, Mr, President, by reaffirming my couniry's faith in Unesco,  dedicated as it has always been to the service of mankind, and by reassuring this Organi-  zation that my country will play its part in the realization of this concept of one world, where  peace, security and respect for human rights will be enjoyed by all mankind, Thank you,  Mr, President,
27. Le PRESIDENT. -  Je donne maintenant la parole à M, Pérez Olivares, chef de la délégation du Venezuela.
(28.1) M, PEREZ OLIVARES (Venezuela). - (Traduit de l'espagnol, )  Je tiens à dire tout d'abord que mon pays se réjouit que vous ayez été désigné, Monsieur le  Président, pour diriger les travaux de la Conférence générale.
(28.2) Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, je vais essayer d'exposer très brièvement  notre opinion au sujet de quelques-uns des critères qu'a énoncés le Directeur général. Nous approu-  vons les grands principes de démocratisation et de rénovation de l'éducation dont s'inspirent - tels  qu'ils nous sont soumis - le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1973-1974 et l'Esquisse de  plan à moyen terme pour 1973-1978, Nous estimons qu'il faudra poursuivre l'effort entrepris pour  l'établissement de plans à moyen terme - étant entendu qu'il devra s'agir de plans de caractère  purement indicatif qui ne sauraient nous imposer aucune obligation quant à la réalisation des dé-  penses envisagées - et nous estimons aussi qu'il faudra concevoir un système de réévaluation bien-  nale de ces plans, Nous sommes d'autre part favorables à la tendance qui veut que la notion de  "projets" soit remplacée par celle de ''programmes', autrement dit que les projets soient désor-  mais englobés dans de vastes programmes qui donneront des indications précises sur les objectifs  à atteindre dans les domaines prioritaires de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture.
(28.3) Nous rendons hommage À l'excellent travail qu'a accompli la Commission internationale  sur le développement de l'éducation, dont le rapport devra alimenter nos réflexions sur tout le  processus d'éducation. À cet égard, je me permets de dire au Secrétariat qu'il devrait prévoir  l'organisation immédiate d'une série de séminaires, tant nationaux que sous-régionaux ou régio-  naux, à l'occasion desquels serait analysé à fond ce remarquable rapport, où figurent de multiples  suggestions relatives aux problèmes fondamentaux de l'éducation.
(28,4) Je suis également heureux de voir que la politique de développement de l'éducation pour-  suivie par le président de mon pays, M. Rafael Caldera, est conforme aux principes énoncés dans  les documents qui nous sont présentés. Nous ne nous sommes pas bornés, au Venezuela, à moder-  niser notre enseignement. La réforme que nous avons entreprise, nous la concevons comme une  véritable lutte contre l'ignorance et contre toute forme de domination interne ou externe ; nous  voyons en elle la continuation historique du mouvement de libération politique dans lequel nous  nous sommes lancés il y a plus de 150 ans, Nous essayons d'établir les bases d'une véritable édu-  cation permanente : en cherchant à inspirer à nos enfants et à notre jeunesse l'amour du savoir et  à leur donner les moyens méthodologiques nécessaires pour que cet amour dure toute la vie ; en  modifiant à fond nos institutions pour qu'elles soient à même de dispenser un enseignement perma-  nent ; en nous occupant par priorité des couches les plus pauvres de la population, des régions les  plus déshéritées et des problèmes les plus urgents, afin d'acquérir, par l'application d'une poli-  tique nationale de justice sociale, l'autorité morale nécessaire pour pouvoir demander au concert  des nations de faire régner la justice sociale à l'échelon international.
(28.5) Nous avons entrepris un grand effort d'innovation, Mais cet effort que chaque pays accom-  plit au niveau national, et qui se déploie au niveau international grâce à l'appui et à l'impulsion de  l'Unesco, pourrait nous conduire à de grandes déceptions et à de graves échecs si nous n'analysions  pas dans tous ses détails le problème fondamental de l'éducation dans son ensemble, Je veux par-  ler du problème des valeurs. Ce problème doit faire l'objet d'une discussion libre dans toutes les  institutions qui se consacrent À l'éducation, à la science et à la culture, si nous ne voulons pas que  les comportements qui entraMent la domination, l'exploitation, l'épuisement des ressources natu-  relles, la contamination de l'environnement, le conditionnement de l'activité et de la conduite de  l'homme, et finalemert l'aliénation de la personne humaine, demeurent la véritable réalité de notre  processus historique.
(28,6) Au cours de la conférence régionale relative à l'éducation en Amérique latine et dans la ré-  gion des Caraîbes, je me suis permis de remettre en question les moyens que nous avons jusqu'à  présent fait servir à l'éducation, parce que je suis convaineu qu'ils deviennent maintenant un véri-  table obstacle à son développement, Et je tiens à répéter devant cette grande assemblée que, si  nous centinuons à confondre éducation et scolarisation - et cette confusion se manifeste encore plus  dans la pratique que dans la théorie -, nous nous engagerons dans une voie sans issue, Je voudrais  aussi répéter un autre avertissement que j'ai alors donné, à savoir que, si nous ne définissons pas
113   avec soin ce que nous entendons par développement ~ et ce n'est certainement ni la richesse ni le  pouvoir -, nous risquons de trahir les aspirations les plus justes et les plus pures de nos peuples.  J'apprécie toute la force de l'observation qu'a faite le Directeur général quand il a signalé que trans-  férer les techniques, c'est souvent transférer un certain "modèle" de développement, C'est bien  là ce que nous faisons parfois, car nous ne nous rendons pas clairement compte de l'erreur que  nous commettons en considérant les techniques comme des instruments non contaminés, Transfé-  rer les techniques, c'est, en fait, prendre pour modèle certains pays que l'on qualifle arbitraire-  ment de ‘’développés'', pour l'unique raison qu'ils sont riches et puissants.
(28.7) Nous courons le risque de conditionner tout l'avenir, de nous priver des possibilités que  nous avons de nous distinguer des autres, C'est à cela que peut conduire le développement techno-  logique joint au manque de profondeur de nos analyses. Il nous faut donc bien comprendre que le  but essentiel de notre processus de développement éducationnel, scientifique et culturel doit corres-  pondre à notre propre conception de l'avenir ; et il nous faut comprendre aussi que nous devons  éviter de conditionner les enfants et les jeunes et de leur imposer les échelles de valeurs que nous  avons nous-mêmes acceptées ou appliquées. Le problème fondamental est done - j'y insiste encore -  celui des valeurs. Nous devons proposer À notre jeunesse, pour qu'elle les accepte, les rejette ou  les modifie, des critères fondamentaux dont elle puisse se servir pour résoudre la contradiction  entre sa vocation de dominer et sa vocation de servir, entre la volonté d'affirmation individuelle  et l'aspiration aux réalisations collectives, entre le désir d'obtenir le maximum de résultats au  cours de sa propre existence et la solidarité indispensable avec les générations futures. Dans la  mesure où les enfants et les jeunes comprendront clairement leur devoir de solidarité à l'égard  de tous les individus qui vivent à la même époque qu'eux, et avec les générations qui sont appelées  à leur succéder, on verra peut-être diminuer la fréquence avec laquelle se présentent aujourd'hui  les phénomènes de domination, d'exploitation, de déséquilibre interne, d'épuisement des ressources  ou de contamination du milieu ; et, si ce progrès ne se produit pas, ce sera sans doute parce que  la jeunesse aura renoncé à certaines valeurs en vertu d'une attitude délibérément choisie, donc  différente de celle qui prévaut en cette époque dramatique que nous vivons, époque à la fois triste  et riche d'espoirs, au cours de laquelle nous tombons constamment dans des contradictions entre  ce que nous croyons, ce que nous disons et ce que nous faisons,
(28,8) Ce n'est que dans la mesure où nous tiendrons compte de ce qu'a dit le Directeur général  sur la nécessité d'entreprendre une immense tâche de réflexion et de ne jamais perdre de vue le  problème des valeurs que nous donnerons tout son sens à l'énorme effort que nous faisons et que  nous devrons étendre dans l'avenir, Cette tâche de réflexion doit être la norme permanente à tous  les échelons de l'Unesco, à tous les échelons des Etats membres, Elle exige qu'il y ait un rapport  adéquat entre le budget ordinaire de l'Unesco et les ressources que celle-ci administre ou mobilise.  A cet égard, la position qu'a prise le Directeur général est pleinement approuvée du gouvernement  vénézuélien, Nous devons doter l'Unesco de ressources destinées à renforcer son autonomie et à  lui permettre d'apporter à nos pays, comme le veut la justice sociale internationale, l'aide dont  ils ont besoin pour la mise en oeuvre de véritables politiques éducatives, scientifiques et culturelles.
(28.9) La délégation du Venezuela appuie, sous réserve de quelques modifications qu'elle propo-  sera en temps opportun, le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1973-1974, Cependant, elle se  permet de signaler au Secrétariat et au Conseil exécutif qu'elle désirerait voir le prochain projet  de programme et de budget donner plus d'importance à la rénovation de l'éducation. Nous approu-  vons, entre autres initiatives mentionnées dans le document 17 C/5, la création à Bangkok du  Centre asien d'innovation éducative en vue du développement, mais nous estimons qu'il faudrait  prévoir dans les prochains programmes la multiplication des institutions de ce genre, étant enten-  du que leur création devrait donner lieu aux études préliminaires nécessaires pour qu'elles puissent,  une fois créées, contribuer efficacement à la solution des problèmes qui apparaissent aujourd'hui  cornme autant d'obstacles insurmontables à l'extension de l'enseignement, à l'éducation des enfants  d'âge préscolaire ou au développement d'une véritable éducation des adultes.
(28.10) Monsieur le Président, en terminant ma brève intervention, je me permettrai d'inviter  la Conférence générale à soutenir le Directeur général, à accepter la politique qu'il suggère et à  approuver ses prévisions de dépenses, dont le montant - quand on le compare aux sommes inves-  t" - dans le matériel qui pourrait servir à la destruction de l'humanité - apparaît véritablement  insignifiant. Je voudrais aussi prier le Secrétariat et tous les services de l'Unesco de faire un  immense effort pour se familiariser avec les idées, la philosophie, les objectifs et les projets du  Directeur général aussi bien qu'avec les méthodes de travail qu'il envisage et pour se mettre ainsi  en mesure de donner à l'action de l'Unesco une efficacité toujours accrue. Je vous remercie,  Monsieur le Président.
29. Le PRESIDENT, -  Etant donné l'heure tardive, je ne crois pas devoir donner maintenant la parole à d'autres  délégués. Nous nous réunirons de nouveau à 15 heures,  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 heures,  Se levanta la sesién a las 13,