Fourth plenary meeting  Thursday 25 October 1973 at 10.15 a.m.  President : Mr. Haguiwara (Japan)  Quatrième séance plénière  jeudi 25 octobre 1973 à 10 h.15  Président: M. Haguiwara (Japon)  Cuarta sesion plenaria  jueves 25 de octubre de 1973 a las 10. 15  Presidente : Sr. Haguiwara (Japh)  Yememoe nneHapHoe 3aceaaHMe  B WTBepr 25 OKTR6PH 1973 r. B 10.15 Y.  IlpeàceàaMe,4b : r-x Xarmapa (IIno~arr)
3XCf4  CONSIDERATION OF THE FINANCIAL SITUATION OF THE ORGANIZATION CAUSED  BY THE PREVAILING INFLATION AND THE DEVALUATION OF THE CURRENCY OF  ACCOUNTING, AND MEASURES TO BE TAKEN IN RESPECT THERETO (continued)  EXAMEN DE LA SITUATION FINANCIERE DE L’ORGANISATION DUE A L’INFLATION  EXISTANTE ET A LA DEVALUATION DE LA MONNAIE DE COMPTE ET MESURES  A PRENDRE A CET EGARD (suite)  EXAMEN DE LA SITUACION FINANCIERA DE LA ORGANIZACION DEBIDA A LA  INFLACION EXISTENTE Y A LA DEVALUACION DE LA MONEDA DE CUENTA Y  MEDIDAS QUE DEBEN TOMARSE A ESE RESPECT0 (continuation)  PACCMOTPEHRE @HHAHCOBOl?O IIOJIO~EHMFI OPI’AHH3AHHH, Bbl3BXHHOFO  CYIIIECTBYI0IIIEG MH@j’ITIRHMEti M AEBAflbBAHHEti BAJIIOTbI, MCIIOJIb3YEMOii  aJI5I PACYETOB, H MEPbI, KOTOPbIE B CBR3H C 3TMM HEOBXO,Il,HMO  IIPEAIIPWHRTb
1.1 Le PRESIDENT :  Je déclare ouverte la quatrième séance.
1.2 La liste des orateurs comprend actuellement 36 noms. Je vais vous donner lecture  de cette liste, après quoi je me propose de la clore définitivement.
1. 3 Les représentants des Etats membres suivants sont incrits sur la liste : Jamai’que,  Espagne, République populaire de Chine, Ethiopie, Pakistan, Costa Rica, République  démocratique allemande, Soudan, Haute-Volta, Hongrie, Sierra Leone, Roumanie, Japon,  Nigéria, Mongolie, Libéria, Kenva, Iran, Dahomey, Belgique, Ghana, Israël, Vene-  zuela, Laos, République socialiste soviétique d’Ukraine, République arabe syrienne,  Royaume-Uni, Maroc, Pays-Bas, Uruguay, Italie, République socïaliste soviétique de  Biélorussie, République fédérale d’Allemagne, République du Zafre, Bulgarie et Chypre.
1.4 Je déclare close la liste des orateurs. Je prie instamment les délégués qui vont  prendre la parole d’être aussi brefs que possible et de s’en tenir strictement au point  de l’ordre du jour examiné. Je donne maintenant la parole à M. Wvnter,de la Jamaique.
2.1 Mr. WYNTER’(Jamaica):  Mr. President, we have listened with great interest to the statements by the  Vice-Chairman of the Executive Board, my good friend Mr. Betancur Mejfa, and to the  statement by our Director-General, which have alreadv fully outlined the history of the  critical financial situation in which this Organization finds itself. We, Mr. President,  in Unesco are not as fortunate as some of our colleagues whose countries face no finan-  cial crisis. But may 1, as a representative of one of the lesser countries in the world,  speculate that, if a certain great English playwright, whose name 1 believe was Shakespeare,  lived today, he might have changed his statement that “what great ones do, the less Will
3XCl4  prate of” to the following: “that what great ones do or do not do, the lesser ~111 suffer  from”. In any event, Mr. President, we are here in this extraordinary session of the  Conference - only the third in our twenty-six years of existence - because the financial  situation is SO critical that only the General Conference - the supreme sovereign body  of Unesco - cari resolve it.
2.2 We should like, Mr. President, to congratulate you and the General Committee  for the decision not to appoint commissions and for the decision for us to discuss this  item 7 in plenary. Your proposa1 was accepted by the Conference yesterday and, to me,  this is a most significant and important decision. For what is the implication, Mr.  President? It meant to us in the Jamaican delegation that the Conference had agreed  that it would dispense with a technical examination of the calculations of the deficit and,  even more important, dispense with a technical examination of the proposals for sup-  plementary estimates set out in both Paper 3 and Paper 4.
2.3 Now, Mr. President, it is our view that, in normal circumstances, the General  Conference should through its commissions carry out these important technical  examinations.
2.4 But, in this case, as the Conference’s own subsidiary organ, the Executive Board  has already done the examination, an examination which was carried out under the very  able leadership of our distinguished Chairman, Dr. F. Sarrfif, who was unfortunately  indisposed recently but who, fortunately for us all, is on the road to full recovery. The  Board, Mr. President, was unanimous in its establishment of the validity of the Director-  General’s calculations and the Jamaican delegation is therefore confirmed in the view that  there is no need for the Conference to set up its own machinery here to again establish  the validity. And as far as we have been able to hear from those who have spoken sofar,  there seems to be a general willingness among members of this Conference to acceptthe  Board’s statement that the bases for the calculations in respect of the costs arisingfrom  inflation, and the costs arising from the devaluation of the unit of account and the  fluctuations in its value since February of this year, are technically sound. Mr.  President, 1 arr1 grateful that this is SO, especially as my colleagues on the BoaraIs  Finance and Administrative Commission worked SO thoroughly in partnership with the  Director-General and his staff in this technical examination.
2.5 Mr. President, forgive me for appearing to belabour the point, but let me add  that, in our’view, if there had been any substantial disagreement in the Board, then we  would have urged strongly that, here at this Conference, we should do our own technical  examination through our own Finance Commission.
2.6 When we corne to the proposals to finance the additional costs, we again declare  that if there had been any disagreement and conflict between the members of the Board
195    on the one hand, and between the Board and the Director-General on the other hand,  then we here would be obliged to use our own machinery to technically examine the pro-  posais in order to resolve the differences to our own satisfaction. But this situation  has not arisen, because of the agreements which came out of the Board and the partner-  ship which developed between the Board and the Director-General on this matter. We  have a saying in our country, Mr. President, that you do not appoint a custodian or a  watchman and then do the watching yourself - actually the real saying is that of buying  a watchdog and doing the barking and biting yourself, but 1 doubt whether my colleagues  on the Board and the Director-General would forgive me for likening them to dogs,  however noble these animals might be. By your decision, Mr. President, yesterday,  and that of the Conference not to appoint commissions, 1 repeat that we have decided to  accept the technical examination of the proposals - an examination made by the Board,  and this makes it most difficult for us to consider any new proposals at this stage, either  for further economies or for fewer economies or any amendments which deplore or  regret the economies already made; if this was SO, Mr. President, we would be obliged,  in this delegation, to ask the Conference to reverse its decision not to appoint commis-  sions and to ask that a commission be appointed to technically examine these proposals -  an examination, Mr. President, which would take us at least another week or two - at  great cost to Unesco and at even greater cost to Member States. 1 am therefore de-  lighted, Mr. President, that there have been very few new proposals made in the debate,  and as these new proposals have corne from Member States who are represented on the  Executive Board and who did not disagree with the consensus reached in the Board,  even if one or two of them may have abstained from the consensus, 1 am confident,  Mr. President, that those States concerned Will not press these new proposals beyond  the exposition of them which they made in the debate, nor Will they insist on moving new  amendments which 1 contend, and my country contends, would destroy the very basis of the  consensus which was reached, and would mean that a11 three parties - those who were  for further economies, those who were for fewer economies, and the Director-General  himself - would feel obliged to say to the Conference, we now return to square one and  we begin the battle again - which might take us two or three weeks.
2.7 For, Mr. President, the consensus reached was the result of very thorough  examination, of great consultations, of long discussions; the consensus reached was  marked by a supreme dedication to the principle of international collaboration and the  desire of a11 concerned to maintain Unesco as an effective, efficient organization. My  own Government has accepted this consensus, and has instructed the Jamaican delega-  tion to support the draft resolution in 3 XC/4 in its entirety. It has done SO for the  following reasons:
1. It is convinced that the Director-General’s calculations of the deficit caused  by the devaluation and fluctuations are technically sound and valid.
2. It accepts th.e estimate of the Director-General of the likely deficit caused by  the extraordinary inflation - and also the view that inflationary costs may well rise be-  yond what was estimated, during 1974.
3. It is convinced that the Executive Board and the Director-General and the  Secretariat have done a11 that was constitutionally, legally and practicably possible to  implement the Organization’s programme according to the following principles:  (a) strict financial administration involving the elimination of a11 possible waste,  and improving the efficiency of the Organization;  (b) savings of $3, 533, 436 to deal with inflation and savings of $1,600,000 to deal  with devaluation costs - savings made in the programme and administration in such a  way that the integrity of the 1973-1974 Programme Will not be appreciably altered.
2.8 In this respect, the Jamaican delegation wishes to emphasize that the areas of  savings were within the Director-General’s discretion and are not tied to the table in  Annex II of the paper 93 EX/15. For, Mr. President, it was the view of the Working  Party of the Board to which 1 had the honour to belong, that although we had identified  areas of possible economies, which included staff, staff travel, consultants, de facto  savings from the non-execution up to October 1973 of certain programmes, the use of  savings that may occur within the specific budget of a particular budget, it was to be  left to the Director-General to determine where he would make the economies in accor-  dance with the criteria laid down by the Board at its 88th session. The Working Party  was aware of the problems attendant on making economies - problems of which the  Director-General reminded us SO forcibly yesterday. May 1 say, Mr. President,  that the reductions proposed by the Director-General, set out in 3 XC/3, paragraph 10,  which the Board had authorized him to make, are remarkably similar to what some of us  had proposed in a preliminary way in the light of the discussions in the Working Party.
1 cal1 attention to the fact that the Director-General has proposed reductions in the  amount needed in Part 1 (General Conference, Executive Board, Director-General, Ex-  ternal Audit and Joint Inspection) to counter devaluation costs by 8.4% of the total costs -  some of us had thought of a percentage 8. 670, a remarkable similarity.
2.9 In Part II - the Programme Operations and Service - he has proposed reductions  of 11. Sy’, some of us would have made it 11. 2%. In Part III - General Administration -  the Director-General has made reductions of 5.0670, some of us had thought of 4.4%.  In Part IV - Publications, Documents and Translation Services, the Director-General  has made reductions of 9. 1% - some of us had thought of the very same percentage, 9. 1%.  In the Common Services, the Director-General has made reductions of 11.6% -‘some of
3XCf4  US would have gone as high as 14.6%. But you would have seen, Mr. President, from  these examples, how remarkably similar the approach has been of the Director-General  and those of us who had the privilege of looking into the situation very closely at the  recent Board meetings.
2.10 It Will be seen therefore why we feel confident in supporting the proposals in  paragraph 10 of 3 XC/3.
2.11 Mr. President, at this stage may 1 be forgiven if 1 add to the excellent statement  made by our Vice-Chairman, Mr. Betancur Mejia, by quoting just three short paragraphs  from the report of the Working Party?“There were differing views in the Working Party  as to the amount of economies which might be made in each of the areas identified, and  accordingly in the total amount of further reductions which could be made. Whereas  some members maintained that a higher rate of reductions was possible, others held as  firmly to the view that only a lower rate of reductions was feasible. Believing, how-  ever, that in accordance with the mandate of the Board it was of paramount importance  that there should be as large an area of agreement as possible between the several groups  in the Executive Board, and a continuation of effective partnership with the Director-  General, the Working Party agreed to recommend that the Executive Board should invite  the Director-General to seek further reductions in the order of $1,600,000 and to revise  his supplementary estimates accordingly. ” Mr. President, 1 read those three para-  graphs simply to emphasize the fact that what the Conference has before it is a consen-  sus, a negotiated agreement which was reached by the several groups in the Board with  the Director-General, and it is important to note that these disagreements took place but  they were able to corne together to find this negotiated agreement.
2. 12 But let me state clearly, Mr. President, as 1 have done in the Board, that the  Jamaican Government would like to emphasize that it would look with the greatest dis-  favour on any economies which would impair the effectiveness of Unesco in the very  sensitive and important areas of human rights, peace, literacy, use of mass media in  development, and those areas of education like women’s access to education, or in com-  munication dealing with the education of women, and special projects of development in  the Third World countries. For to do this would be to destroy the very raison d’être of  Unesco, in the eyes of the Third World, and in the conscience of a11 mankind.
2.13 Mr. President, we hope that those of our colleagues who yesterday called for  further reductions and curtailments will not persist with their requests at this Confer-  ence; we believe in fact that they were in effect sounding a note of warning for the  future. Let me tel1 them that the warning has been heard and the warning is noted.  Let me add that what happened in the Executive Board in its discussions with the
3xci4  Director-General in this crisis should be a symbol of the future success of this Organ-  ization. For, Mr. President, men of principles representing countries which hold  those principles dearly were able to corne together and, without departing from those  principles, were able instead to pool those principles together in the common interest  of the Organization, in the belief that the maintenance of this international body is one  of the most effective instruments for the development of real peace. And SO, Mr. Pres-  ident, there was and there is general acceptance on a11 sides of the following principles  for the rational execution of the programme, criteria which originated from one side or  the other:
1. Faithful observance of the principles, decisions, and instructions of the  General Conference;
2. Rigid financial control to keep costs from rising out of hand;
3. Strict supervision to maintain and improve performance and efficiency;
4. Elimination of waste or likely waste in the administration and in the execu-  tion of the programme;
5. Elimination of programme activities that have failed or are about to fail;
6. Cessation of programme activities which have already achieved their objec-  tives (though planned for a longer period); finally
7. When facing a financial crisis like this, postponement of certain programme  activities to the next budget period - not the total activity, Mr. President, but parts of  the activities - provided the postponement Will not adversely affect the long-term or  medium-term planning objectives of Unesco.
2.14 Developed countries have quite rightly insisted on the need for greater efficiency  in the management of the Organization. But, Mr. President, they are not alone. The  Director-General has himself been pressing for greater improvements in the manage-  ment of the Organization. Smaller countries like mine and other Third World countries  stand to gain even more from greater efficiency, because like the ‘widow’s mite, our  contributions are no less important or burdensome to us, and in the battle for develop-  ment the weapon of efficiency is the principal guarantee of effectiveness and success.  Developing countries like mine, Mr. President, have stressed the overwhelming im-  portance of the integrity of the programme and we are glad that our brothers and sisters  in the developed industrialized countries have agreed with us. For the programme is  the Organizatipn and we Will support calls for more programmes at less cost, but let  me point out, Mr. President, there is a limit beyond which we cannot go. We cannot  expect to get to drink champagne on the money we are prepared to pay for beer. Where  we have had differences, Mr. President, is on the question of growth of the programme.
2.15 My Government is pleased that there is no real difference on the need for growth.  What divides us still is the calculation of growth. The Director-General has pointed out  with frank realism that, if the resolution in Paper 4 is adopted - a resolution to which he  personally and his colleagues contributed SO very much - and may 1 here again express  the appreciation of my Government for the way in which the Director-General and his  colleagues have helped us in this particular matter - he says that the growth of 5. 66%  Will be reduced to 0. 84%. This is a sad fact. But, Mr. President even 0.84% is to be  preferred to no growth or to a minus growth. 1 would say that in the light of the criti-  cal situation facing us a11 - or most of us at any rate - today, to be able to maintain even  a small percentage of growth is most gratifying. The whole problem of growth Will  corne before us next year at the eighteenth session of the Conference. 1 appeal to a11  my colleagues here today to begin to ponder this question, and let us not try to push into  this resolution any anticipation of what is to corne next year. Let us plan, let us pon-  der, let us prepare, SO that we cari help the eighteenth session of the General Confer-  ence to speak firmly and definitively and clearly on this point. But that is for next year.
2. 16 Today we are summoned to do our duty in safeguarding the integrity as much as  we cari of the programme which was adopted last November by us in this room. Our  task is to repulse attacks on the programme by the twin problems of inflation and de-  valuation. The Board has done what it cari in approving the use of the Reserve, and in  its provisional approval of 2. 5% in supplementary estimates; the Board and the  Director-General have also found savings and economies of $5, 133,436. Thus, with a  total deficit of $23, 700, 000, the Board and the Director-General propose to reduce this  by $9,443, 000 by economies and the use of the Reserves; and if we give approval for  the use of contributions of new members, the deficit Will be further reduced, SO that,  Mr. President, $11, 043, 000 or 46. 6% of the deficit Will corne from within the provi-  sions approved in 1972, and with the accession of two new members.
2.17 We in the General Conference are now being asked to vote an additional  $12, 652, 100 or 53.4% of the money needed to offset the harmful effects of the devalua-  tion and inflation. It is noted that this $12. 6 million includes the $2, 988, 850 already  provisionally approved by the Executive Board. SO that in effect we, in this Conference,  are being asked to confirm the Executive Board’s provisional approval of $2, 988, 850  and to vote a further $9, 663, 230. Mr. President, the Jamaican delegation is of the  view that the General Conference should show its confidence in its Board and its  Director-General by a unanimous adoption of the draft resolution proposed by the Board  with the concurrence of the Director-General.
2. 18 We expect and pray that a11 our colleague Member States Will give this vote of
3XCl4  realistic confidence, SO that we may complete this biennium which has already been  plagued by these twin disasters of devaluation and inflation; and then we cari go on to make  our preparations for a dynamic General Conference in October 1974 which Will put us  firmly on the road to the great march in the Second Development Decade. Thank you.
3. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie M. Wynter. La parole est à S. Ext. Don Raimundo Pérez-Hernandez,  chef de la délégation d’Espagne.
203  -TF i
(4. 1) Mr. PEREZ HERNANDEZ (Spain) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President, the Spanish Government supports the proposal, submitted to this session of  the General Conference by the Executive Board, for supplementaryestimates totalling $14,252,100,  in accordance with the terms of document 3 XC/4.
(4. 2) My Government has SO decided because it believes this to be the surest course to follow,  from both the political and the technical points of view. Generally speaking, economic problems  give rise in our Organization to different attitudes. One, which might be described as idealistic,  is held by those whose main concern is for the Organization’s lofty aims, in comparison with which  a11 means are slight. In this connexion, the delegation of Spain is of the opinion that there exists  at present no body better qualified than Unesco to work for the integration in development of a11  ihe countries of the world, in the spheres of education, science and culture. Because it pursues  tnis aim, Unesco is deserving of financial sacrifices and efforts. This has always been the view  taken by my country.
(4. 3) There is also another attitude towards the Organization’s financial problems, which might  be called realistic. According to this attitude, aims and ideals by themselves do not suffice to  justify an undertaking, but it is essential to establish an efficient mechanism, a rhythm, discipline  in operation, and interna1 and external controls for the execution of programmes. Unless a11 this  is assured, an increase in resources Will inevitably deflect the Organization from its aims.
(4. 4) My country has also understood that this latter attitude, if it does not become a pretext, is  wise and compatible with the former one. The present situation provides proof of this. Con-  sequently, the agreement on the additional savings requested from the Secretariat of $1,600,000,  has, in our view, a symbolic as well as a numerical significance. It might have been decided to  cal1 for savings, which the Director-General himself considered at one time, of more than  $2,100,000; or it could have been argued that any savings required of the Organization would  appreciably affect the programme. But political common sense prevailed, in the preparation of  these financial documents, on the part both of the Secretariat and of the Executive Board. And an  eclectic formula was evolved, proving not only, as SO often happens, the most appropriate but  also, it seems to me, the fairest.
(4. 5) This political wisdom was moreover matched, in the opinion of my delegation, by technical  wisdom. Different methods were used to tope with the deficit due to inflation of the CurrencY of
3XCl4  payment and to devaluation of the currency of accounting - for these two phenomena,though related,  are not identical. Devaluation depends more on circumstances, is more accidental, it may not  happen for years and then recur unexpectedly; whereas inflation is a virtually endemic, permanent,  constant phenomenon, and is to some extent foreseeable.
(4. 6) The draft resolution now before us deals, then with inflation as a foreseen phenomenon. And  it makes use of the Appropriation Reserve approved by the seventeenth session of the General  Conference for our semi-full budgeting system. What was not foreseen was the increase in the  speed with which the inflationary spiral developed. In accordance with a certain interna1 logic,  the deficit caused by accelerated inflation is mainly absorbed by administrative savings; these  cancel out the roughly 8 million dollars deficit.
(4. 7) TO tope with the devaluation of the currency of accounting, which could not be foreseen at  the time when the current budget was established, an exceptional measure has been taken: an  extraordinary budget has been established totalling, as has already been mentioned, less than the  actual figure of the deficit.
(4. 8) It is not for us, at this extraordinary session, to make a detailed examination of the con-  sequences of this different technical approach to our large deficit. This Will no doubt be done by  the eighteenth session of the General Conference. On the other hand, 1 think it fitting to touch on  some of the most urgent questions that have been brought to light at this extraordinary session.  Will it be necessary, for instance, to convene an extraordinary session of the General Conference  on every occasion when our currency of accounting is devalued? Will it be advisable, in view of  the speed with which the inflationary spiral is developing, to use full budgeting instead of semi-full  budgeting? Will Unesco’s index of expansion continue to float freely, as one more figure, or Will  it be endowed with flexibility according to circumstances?
(4. 9) In the view of my delegation, the change in the unit of accounting entails a problem affecting  the United Nations system as a whole, and the risks attendant on the taking of an isolated stand by  any one organization make such a course inadvisable. Our Organization should therefore take no  action for the moment on the question in general, but should concentrate on considering what  methods it would be most beneficial for us to apply.
(4. 10) Meanwhile we should use this opportunity for devising a procedure which Will function  automatically in cases of officia1 devaluation of the currency of accounting. This procedure might  consist in fixing a percentage of devaluation following which Unesco Will automatically absorb the  deficit by distributing the cost among the Member States. Approval by the Executive Board would  suffice to bring this mechanism into operation and, for the better safeguarding of national interests~,  it might be stipulated that any such agreement, to be valid, would require to be approved by a  specified majority in the Board.
(4. 11) As a result of this or some similar arrangement, the convening of an extraordinary ses-  sion of the General Conference would only become necessary by reason of the devaluation of the  currency of accounting when the rate of that devaluation is such as to confront the Organizahion  with a new financial situation.
(4. 12) As regards inflation, the most immediate lesson to be learnt from the procedure being  proposed to us is the need for balance. Not a11 the items of the budget are equally affected by  inflation. The index of inflation is not as simple as the index of devaluation and its components  are therefore heterogeneous. Moreover it is by its very nature constantly shifting, and varies  from one country to another. It may perhaps be advisable in future to draw a distinction, within  the Organization’s budget, between different types of goods and services, according to vulnera-  bility to inflation and also to the monetary area to which they are related, on the grounds that  certain areas may be regarded as being immune to the effects of inflation. This technical division  of the budget may make it easier to calculate the foreseeable indices of inflation. But the imme-  diate task is to take measures for curtailment and saving, which is more difficult than simply to  accept the economic spiral as an inevitable evil.
(4. 13) Inflation may perhaps be regarded as the expression, in economic terms, of a problem  affecting the whole of Western civilization - that of limits. A development that is unaware of its
3xc/4  limits cannot be considered as such. Freedom, knowledge, progress, if they are to be construc-  tive, must form part of a process of balance; otherwise they lose their human character and take  on that of natural phenomena. Thus it is that, in the most exemplary undertakings, quantity must  be allied to quality, sometimes yielding first place to the latter. And SO Unesco’s index of expan-  sion must take account of a11 the vectors of economic growth, as well as those of the Organiza-  tion’s qualitative performance.
(4. 14) This is the third extraordinary session of the General Conference that has taken place in  Unesco’s lifetime. Twenty years have passed since we last had recourse to this exceptional  measure - twenty years during which the Organization has grown and matured. It is in my opinion  symptomatic that the reason for convening this conference should have been economic. The size  of our budget is such that exceptional measures must inevitably be taken to deal with the anomalies  that may occur in the course of the budgetary period. It is not a matter of a small figure to be  absorbed, reduced or increased, nor of a small unit that is frozen. Fifteen million dollars re-  presents an important amount in terms of human activity and interests. The reason for this meet-  ing therefore affords proof, 1 am happy to say, of Unescols objective value.
(4. 15) But this extraordinary session is also a sign of concern for legality, for the Constitution  of Unesco. The work entailed by the organization of the Conference, the thousands of dollars  expended on its preparation, the disturbance caused to national delegations and to the Secretariat -  a11 this 1 should like to interpret as proof of the qualitative factors to which 1 have just referred.  It is the sacrifice made by Unesco out of regard for its own dignity. In this way, 1 hope, contri-  buting to bestow upon Unesco the tradition of humanism which we desire that it should have. Thank  you, Mr. President.
5. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie S. Ext. Don Raimundo Pérez-HernBndez et je donne la parole à  M. Li Kuang-tsé, chef adjoint de la délégation de la République populaire de Chine.
6. 1 Mr. LI KUANG-TSE (People’s Republic of China) (Delivered in Chinese.  Transcription established from the interpretation):  Mr. President, we have listened to the reports delivered respectively at this  extraordinary session of the General Conference by Mr. Betancur Mejia, Vice-Chairman  of the Executive Board, and Mr. Ren6 Maheu, Director-General of the Organization.  We approve in general the resolution contained in the recommendation (document 3 XC/4)  adopted by the Executive Board at its 93rd session concerning the possible solutions to  the financial problems confronting the Organization.
6. 2 The Chinese delegation holds that in approaching this problem, the wishes and  desires of the majority of Member States should be regarded as the starting point, and  that full consideration should be given to the demands of the developing countries in  whatever related measures we may take. Only by SO doing Will we be able success-  fully to realize the aims of the Organization. Therefore, concretely speaking, in order to  caver the deficit caused by inflation and the devaluation of the US dollar, it seems to us  that both further economies (namely, doing as much as we cari but at as little cost as pos-  sible) and an additional appropriation are indispensable. As to the possible reduction  or deferment of some of the programme activities, the following two principles should
3XCl4  be duly taken into account: (1) the volume of reduction should not be enormous, and the  implementation of the original programme should not be seriously damaged; (2) the  decision as to the items to be reduced should be made through consultation based on the  real interests of the Member States concerned, particularly those of the developing  countries. The items of which they are in urgent need or which are in the process of  implementation should not be reduced. If reduction is necessary, it should be limited  to the minimum. Thank you, Mr. President.
7. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie M. Li Kuang-tsé et je donne la parole à S. Ext. M. Mahteme Selassie,  chef de la délégation d’Ethiopie.
8.1 Mr. SELASSIE (Ethiopia):  Mr. President, a year ago we gathered in this very hall to consider and decide  on the Proposed Programme and Budget for 1973-1974 and the Medium-Term Outline  Plan for 1973-1978. It took the General Conference weeks of hard work to complete the  tasks entrusted to it. Numerous sessions, some of them characterized by heated dis-  cussions and late hours, took place in order to scrutinize the biennial and long-term  objectives of the Organization and the budget allocated for their implementation. How-  ever, the strenuous efforts of delegates and the Director-General and his staff were not  left unrewarded. We believe that the aeventeenth session of the General Conference was  able to concentrate on major topics of priority, and special note should also be made of  the greater number of important resolutions that were adopted with the full knowledge of  their implications.
8.2 Strong pleas and demands were made on the Director-General for an increase in  efficiency and economy. Certain Member States stressed the need for a stricter watch  on the question of finance. In response to these pleas, our Director-General has assured  us, in the foreword to the Approved Programme and Budget for 1973-1974, that due con-  sideration Will be given to resolutions 38.1 and 38.2, concerning “Guidelines for increas-  ing the efficiency of the Secretariat ” in the implementation of‘the biennial programme.
8.3 Mr. President, one of the major items of the seventeenth session that generated  a debate marked by opposing views was the adoption of the budget ceiling. At that time,  the Ethiopian delegation was rather apprehensive that a dichotomy of views existed  among delegates regarding this particular item. As Will be recalled, my delegation had  expressed strong reservations over the minimal growth rate of 4.8% proposed for the
1973- 1974 Budget. However, taking into account international factors, such as the mone-  tary situation, that forced the Director-General to propose a lower budget, our delega-  tion supported and voted for the proposed budget.
8.4 The Ethiopian delegation is deeply concerned over the fact that the regular bud-  get for the current biennium, which was agreed upon with no little effort, has yet to suffer  a crisis arising out of inflation and the devaluation of the United States dollar. The def-  ici-t on the budget that has corne about as a result of these two factors is a substantial  one and, if left unattended, it Will have further adverse effects on the programme of the  Organization. It is therefore the duty of this extraordinary session of the General Con-  ference to seek a viable, immediate and long-term solution to this grave problem.
8. 5 We in Ethiopia have been following closely the activities of the Organization  aimed at combating the adverse effects of the deficit in its budget. At the outset we  would like to place on record our appreciation to the Director-General and members of  the Secretariat for their services in presenting the problem with clarity and in suggest-  ing practical remedies. Equally our praise goes to the Executive Board for the r81e it  played in providing the Secretariat with guidelines and enlightened leadership.
8.6 Mr. President, the Ethiopian delegation has carefully reviewed the action taken  by the Secretariat and the Executive Board concerning the deficit in Unesco’s budget as  a result of devaluation and inflation. We note with satisfaction the steps proposed by  the Director-General to make savings that would enable him to absorb within the approved  budget of the current biennium a deficit in the order of US $8, 000, 000 that has been  caused by inflation. Although we have the assurance of the Director-General that in the  course of realizing the proposed savings every attempt would be made to execute the  programme at a lower cost without significantly affecting it, we also have been warned  of the possible negative consequences such reductions are likely to entail. We consider  this to be a serious situation that would limit considerably the already inadequate re-  sources of Unesco. It is the view of the Ethiopian delegation that, in considering such  a complex problem, our constructive co-operation is essential.
8. 7 While appreciating the steps being proposed by the Director-General, we would  like to note that careful analysis of the document on Measures Adopted to Finance Infla-  tion Costs, prepared for the consideration of the 93rd session of the Executive Board, re-  veals a pronounced imbalance in the amount of savings anticipated from the five parts of  the operating budget as adjusted at the 92nd session of the Executive Board. As it stands,  the highest savings are expected to be made from Part II, Programme Operations and  Services, whereas the least to be affected in the process of effecting the needed economy  is Part III, General Administration and Programme Supporting Services. In the view of my  delegation, the sacrifice we are expected to accept as a result of such substantial cuts in  Part II is hardly compatible with the cuts proposed on Part III of the Budget. We would,  therefore, wish to emphasize the need for exploring possibilities to make additional re-
3XCl4  sources available from Part III, to reinstate the balance in Part II of the Programme.
8. 8 Mr. President, although inflation and devaluation are factors that Unesco  cannot control, the Ethiopian delegation fully supports the Director-General’s propo-  sa1 to accommodate the additional costs of inflation within the budget of the biennium.  It is the firm conviction of the Ethiopian delegation that, under the circumstances, the  Director-General has proposed measures that would ensure sound management of the  finances allotted to the Organization.
8.9 The magnitude of the deficit caused by these factors has necessitated the conven-  ing of the General Conference to seek a solution to the problem. Therefore, as we dis-  cuss the present situation, we should not lose sight of the future if we are to succeed in  solidly establishing sound ways and means for the execution of the programme of our  Organization. What this Conference should do is to help arrive at a recommendationfor  future action. The years to corne should occupy our attention more than the present, for  in the face of these repeated problems, permanent solutions Will have to be conceived.  Between now and the next ordinary session of the General Conference we should be think-  ing of possible alternative measures. The Director-General and the Executive Board on  their part should continue to study this problem seriously. The United Nations system  as a whole should be able to arrive at permanent solutions to such problems.
8. 10 The programme of Unesco is designed to benefit a11 its Member States without  exception. Bearing this in mind, we are confident that those of us assembled in this hall  today Will without reservation agree to share the supplementary estimates in the inter-  est of both developing and developed countries. Unesco cari only serve us to the extent  that we allow it to. The contributions we make should thus be viewed against the require-  ments of the States the Organization has set out to serve. We are further confident that .  this Conference Will be distinguished by a marked change of spirit that reflects a posi-  tive and healthy disposition. Our co-operation in matters affecting the. Organization  is indispensable.
8. 11 Allow me, Mr. President, to repeat that the Ethiopian delegation Will fully sup-  port and vote for the supplementary estimates proposed by the Director-General and  recommended by the Executive Board. We believe that the high degree of support this  august body is prepared to give Will indeed be a tribute to Unesco’s past achievements  and a manifestation of confidence in what Unesco Will endeavour to accomplish in the  future. 1 thank you, Mr. President.
9. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie S. Ext. M. Mahteme Selassie et je donne la parole à S. Ext. Don  Victor Roman Jara, chef de la délegation de Costa Rica.
(10. 1) Mr. ROMAN JARA (Costa Rica) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. Director-General, fellow delegates, the delegation of Costa Rica, over which 1 have the  honour to preside, agrees to vote in favour of the estimates proposed to caver the deficit due to  inflation and to the devaluation of the dollar, which is the Organization’s currency of accounting.  It does SO because it is convinced that the formulas and resolutions which the Executive Board  is suhmitting for approval are the only ones possible and feasible at the present time, and that  we cannot, for obvious reasons, embark on another technical examination, such as has already  been made in detail by the Executive Board. We also have in mind the consensus that was finaily  reached after long and productive negotiations.
(10. 2) In signifying its acceptance, my delegation would like to stress once again that it is ani-  mated by a sense of responsibility and a desire to co-operate in the attainment of the aims of  Unesco, which it fully endorses. But, precisely because it considers that the Organization has
3xc/4  an important part to play in the development of our countries and in the pursuit and consolidation  of a more just and equitable society - which in our view, represents the only means of achieving  truc peace in the world - we wish, at the same time, to give expression to our misgivings on  certain points.
(10. 3) We are a11 aware that the measures we are preparing to take represent only a temporary  solution, and that these problems Will continue to arise, in increasingly serious form, unless we  seek more fundamental and hence more stable and permanent solutions. We believe that steps  muSt be taken to change the way in which the budget is established, SO as to make it more realis-  tic. It is unrealistic to approve a programme and budget on the strength of a heated session of  the General Conference if we know beforehand that they do not correspond to the facts, and that  shortly afterwards we shall be obliged, in order to tope with problems such as those facing us  today, to do one of two things: either to approve supplementary estimates, which is very difficult  and burdensome not only for the developing countries like ours but also for the advanced countries,  which have to be asked to make a fairer and juster contribution; or else - which is easier and  more usual - to curtail or postpone the programmes agreed upon after much discussion at the  General Conference, to the detriment of our aspirations.
(10. 4) On the other hand, the need to find a more stable solution for the problem of the currency  of accounting is a matter which we must begin to tackle forthwith. We are aware of what this  means, of the projections involved, and of the difficulties in the way of finding a satisfactory solu-  tion. There Will need to be a11 kinds of negotiations within the United Nations family; or else we  must begin to think in terms of the course suggested by the Director-General in the statement he  made yesterday: freezing the rate of exchange at the time when the budget is adopted by the Gen-  eral Conference. In oui- view, this might be a feasible and relatively simple method of ensuring  that future sessions of the General Conference are not faced with problems like the one now  before us.
(10. 5) In seeking a more stable solution, we must reach agreement on what Unesco’s growth rate  is to be. We have already spoken of the difficulty of fixing a growth rate that is compatible with  the reality of world development and with the urgent needs of the Member States receiving assis-  tance from Unesco. But these efforts Will have been in vain if, shortly after the General Con-  ference has approved the growth rate, programmes are curtailed, thus diminishing the hopes we  have placed in Unesco.
(10. 6) Lastly, we are deeply convinced that efforts must continue to be made to find ways and  means of executing the Organization’s programme more efficiently. We must eradicate a11 super-  fluous bureaucracy which may impair Unesco’s efficiency and lead to a decline in its positive  achievements in the Field. We cannot afford to use to no advantage the slender resources avail-  able to us which yet represent a burden for Member States such as Costa Rica.
(10. 7) 1 should like also to point out that certain Member States have benefited from the difficul-  ties by which we are now beset: the contribution they make to Unesco is not a real one, because  their currencies have been re-valued and the contribution they actually pay does not represent any  sacrifice for them. On the other hand, for the majority of countries like ours, the supplementary  contribution does constitute a heavy burden, but one which we are nevertheless prepared to shoul-  der in order to support Unesco and to further its aims, in the hope that formulas may be found  that Will be more propitious and more equitable for a11 Member States and especially for the  developing countries.
(10. 8) 1 repeat that our delegation Will vote in favour of the draft resolutions contained in the  various documents submitted for our considerations; and 1 emphasize that it is not desirable at  this juncture to embark on a technical examination designed to lead to further curtailments or to  make changes in the recommendations presented by the Executive Board. Thank you very much.
11. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie Don Victor Roman Jara et je donne la parole à S. Ext. M. Dieter  Heinze, chef de la délégation de la. RApublique démocratique allemande.
3xc/4  making universally available the best experience and performance in the fields of educa-  tion, science, culture and information in order to support and complete efficiently the  efforts made by the Member States in these fields of social life. The concentration of  the Organization and above a11 of the Secretariat on such main tasks would open up con-  siderable possibilities of achieving economies without detriment to the essentials of  the programme.
12.1 Mr. HEINZE (German Democratic Republic):  Mr. President, at this extraordinary session of the General Conference, the  delegates of the Member States of Unesco are faced with a problem which has been dis-  cussed for a certain time at sessions of the General Conference and of the Executive  Board. It deals with the surmounting of the financial situation of the Organization which  for years has disquieted many of the Member States. 1 think we are justified in express-  ing our thanks to the members of the Executive Board, to the Director-General and his  collaborators in the Secretariat for the efforts they have made in order to analyse the  financial situation of the Organization.
12.2 In considering further the reasons for the financial deficit, it should be asserted  that they arise out of the permanent monetary crisis of the capitalist system and  longstanding inflation. There cari be no doubt that these factors have a detrimental ef-  fect on the activities of the Organization. My Government holds the view that neither  the German Democratic Republic nor other socialist countries, which have a steady  monetary system, cari be held responsible for this development.
12. 3 We have given considerable attention to the fact that questions dealing with in-  creasing the efficiency of the activities of the Organization have for years occupied an  important place at sessions of the General Conference and of the Executive Board and  its bodies. We feel that the raising of the efficiency of the Organization should not be  identified purely with constant budget increases. The delegation of the German Demo-  cratic Republic supports the opinion held by a great number of Member States that thk  possibilities and resources already existing within the Organization should be exploited  more efficiently. A more consistent effort should be made to attain a maximum reali-  zation of Unescols programme with a minimum of financial means, in order to accom-  plish the great tasks confronting the Organization for the benefit of a11 Member States.
12.4 Although the German Democratic Republic is a Young Member of Unesco - as  you know, Mr. President and colleagues, its membership does not yet amount to one  full year - our initial experience in the work has shown that proposals concerning the  simplification of structures, the improvement of working methods and staff policy are  clearly fully justified and have our support.
12.5 My country takes the view that the efficiency of the Organization, its interna-  tional prestige and its contribution to the solution of the problems humanity is faced  with Will depend to a decisive degree on the way Unesco is fulfilling the noble tasks set  out in its Constitution. It would therefore be of the greatest benefit if the Organization  would concentrate its activities on those crucial questions which are in the interests of  a11 Member States. The Organization should strengthen its rôle as an international body
12. 6 The delegation of the German Democratic Republic is also in favour of the pro-  posals which were made yesterday by the Head of the delegation of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics, the Deputy Foreign Minister and President of the Soviet National  Commission for Unesco, Mr. Semskov.
12. 7 Mr. President, ladies ancï gentlemen, since its foundation, the German Demo-  cratic Republic has given, within the range of its possibilities, support to the develop-  ment of national educational systems and has encouraged the progress of science and  culture in the States of Asia, Africa and Latin America. In this way it has contributed,  and Will continue to contribute, to the realization of the Organization’s cause.
12. a The German Democratic Republic is of the opinion that the quantitative and quali-  tative targets of the United Nations Second Development Decade cari only be realized  and thereby lead to marked economic and social development if there is an easing up of  the general political situation, particularly in the fields of general and complete disarma-  ment, the liquidation of foreign military bases and the peaceful solution of conflicts. The  savings produced this way could be utilized for the development of education, science  and culture in Asia, Africa and Latin America and the improvement of general living  standards. Therefore, from this rostrum as well, the German Democratic Republic  supports the proposals made by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics at the XXVIIIth  session of the General Assembly of the United Nations concerning the “Reduction of the  military budgets of the Permanent Members of the United Nations Security Council by
10 per cent and the use of a part of the funds thus saved for providing assistance to  developing countries”.
12. 9 Our Organization, whose activities according to its Constitution are connected  with the noble ideals of peace and understanding between nations, should back this initia-  tive and work for the liquidation of a11 hotbeds of aggression, colonialism, racism  and apartheid.
12. 10 Mr. President, it has been decided, in accordance with the Financial Regulations,  that the scale of assessments that is to be established by the United Nations Will also  serve as the basis for the assessment of the contributions of the German Democratic  Republic to Unesco’s budget. Since the XXVIIIth session of the United Nations General
3x14  Assembly has not yet taken a decision in this regard, a11 figures in Unesco documents  concerning the German Democratic Republic’s contributions should at the moment there-  fore be considered only as provisional and not obligatory.
12. 11 As already declared in a letter by Herr Ewald rd:oldt, President of the National  Commission for Unesco and Deputy Foreign Minister of the German Democratic Repub-  lit, addressed to the Comptroller of the Organization, the German Democratic Republic  Will meet her financial obligations and remit her contributions for 1972 and 1973 before  the end of 1973. On behalf of my Government, 1 express my hope that this contribution,  acquired with diligence by the working people of our country, Will be utilized for effective  projects for the development of education, science and culture for the welfare of a11  people. Thank you, Mr. President.
13. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie M. Dieter Heinze et je donne la parole à S. Ext. Sayed El Khatim  El Khalifa, chef de la délégation du Soudan.
(14. 1) Mr. EL-KHALIFAH (Democratic Republic of the Sudan) (Translation from the Arabie):  Mr. President, the present budgetary crisis of the Organization is actually the result of the  monetary policy of the Great Powers, a policy over which we in the developing nations have no  control. This means that, when we pay our share of the supplementary estimates, we do SO be-  cause we are forced to do it as a result of economic and financial conditions which are beyond our  control. We of the developingnations are more conscious than the others of the reductions and cuts  made in the programme. The so-called “savings” with reference to the reductions in the pro-  gramme are not really savings since they are realized to the detriment of the programme and  since they reduce the rate of growth approved by the General Conference at its seventeenth session  from over 5. 5 per cent to less than 1 per cent. But we find ourselves compelled to accept the  proposals submitted by the Executive Board and to pay our share of the supplementary estimates,  while we reserve our right to disapprove any further cuts in the programme and hope that the  Organization Will strive to tut down its administrative expenses, which unduly burden its budget,  We also sincerely hope that the Secretariat Will see to it that the programme cuts and reductions  are restored in the Organization’s budget for 1975-19’76.
(14. 2) Mr. President, our agreement to pay this share of the supplementary estimates does not  mean that we consider this solution an ideal one. We rather believe it is a provisional solution,  which should be followed by serious studies to be conducted jointly with the mother Organization  and the other Specialized Agencies, with a view to finding a permanent solution to the financial  problem of the Organization. Thank you, Mr. President.
15. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie S. Ext. Sayed Sir El Kha-:im El Khalifa et je donne la parole a S. Ext.  Sahabzada Yaqub Khan, chef de la délégation du Pakistan.
16. 1 Mr. YAQUB KHAN (Pakistan):  Mr. President, at this stage in the discussion, the issues before this extra-  ordinary session ofthe General Conference have already been put with remarkable clarity  in the statements made by His Excellency Mr. Betancur Mejfa, by the Director-General  and by the distinguished delegates who have preceded me. Although there is very little  that could be added by way of a new dimension to the discussion, one feels compelled to  speak because of the momentous nature of the problem before this Conference and be-  cause of deep concern about its numerous implications for the current as well as the fu-  ture shape of Unesco’s endeavour in various fields.
16. 2 Sir, it is no small matter if the General Conference finds within a year of ap-  proving the programme of the Organization for the current biennium, as well as the  outlines of its activities for some years to corne, that the executive body responsible  for implementing its directives is faced with such a large financial deficit caused by  factors completely beyond the control of the Organization. The instability of the world  monetary system and the present-day uncertainties resulting from it are objective facts  of our existence. The factors responsible for this state of affairs are numerous and  complex and their solutions lie in areas of international activity on which Unesco cari  hardly have any direct influence. But this situation does confront us with a very clear  choice: do we succumb to the pressures caused by the vagaries of the financial world  or do we resolve to keep our faith in tha ideals of Unesco in a manner strong enough to  withstand these pressures?
16. 3 Sir, to us the answer is simple and unequivocal. It is a11 the more important  that the programmes of Unesco are preserved and strengthened SO that in time they  create the kind of consciousness a11 the world over that is essential to progress, to de-  velopment and to peace. The magnitude of the deficit and the causes leading to it are  not of such a nature as to admit of a solution, as the Director-General pointed out, by  inner adjustments only, nor could they be overcome by some fiats of management. There  is, in our opinion, no escape from the need to generate additional funds and my delega-  tion would, therefore, lend its full support to the supplementary demands.
16.4 We are in full sympathy with the constructive line of thinking suggested by our  distinguished colleagues that every possible effort should be made to enforce interna1  economy and to rationalize the expenditure of the Organization, but we have taken due  note of the fact that the Director-General has already given his utmost attention to this  problem. He had, in fact, already frozen a substantial number of vacant posts, he had  reduced the number of meetings, eliminated or postponed a considerable number of  publications and brought about effective reductions in the expenditure on staff travel.  We are sure that he Will continue his efforts in this direction to bring about whatever  economy is possible.
16. 5 I am anxious to point out, Sir, that the support we are giving to the supplemen-  tary demands is by no means easy for us. We are struggling hard to recover from the  ravages of the worst floods in our history and every single dollar counts in our national  rehabilitation effort.
16. 6 Again, the monetary situation which has brought about this crisis, and which fre-  quently militates against the interests of developing countries, is not of our making. Nor,  in fact, is it strictly equitable that the developing countries should also have to raise  their contributions. But we would like to see Unesco in terms of reference which go far  beyond the doctrine of the affluent countries assisting the developing countries in their  economic fields. We believe that the work of Unesco is vital to the developed as ,well as  the developing world, and therefore we are more than ready to participate in this joint  effort to preserve the integrity and momentum of these programmes.
16. 7 This is an extraordinary situation caused by some extraordinary developments in  the financial world. While we hope that the world of finance stabilizes itself, we have to  take into account the possibility that the present crisis may recur from time to time. It  is therefore imperative that a cool and dispassionate analysis of Unesco’s financial lia-  bilities is carried out and that ways and means are found to avoid the kind of situation  that we are faced with today, because it jeopardizes the essence of Unescols activities.  It is not easy for us to commit ourselves to any of the proposals mentioned in this re-  gard unless the matter is given further consideration. 1 trust that the Executive Board
3XCl4  of Unesco and other competent agencies Will continue to explore possible solutions for  this situation. In the meanwhile, the Pakistan delegation would urge the Conference to  give its full support to the Director-General in his efforts to stabilize the financial situa-  tion by voting for the supplementary demands. Thank you Sir.
17. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie S. Ext. Sahabzada Yaqub Khan et je donnela parole à S. Ext. M. Charles  Tamini, chef de la délégation de la Haute-Volta.
18. 1 M. TAMINI (Haute-Volta) :  La Haute-Volta apprecie beaucoup l’initiative que le Conseil exécutif et le Secréta-  riat, soucieux de rechercher le moyen de combler autant que possible le déficit prove-  nant de la faiblesse de la monnaie de compte, ont prise en convoquant la troisième ses-  sion extraordinaire de la Conférence générale. Elle félicite tout particulièrement le Se-  crétariat et le Directeur général de 1’Unesco pour les efforts déployés à leur niveau en  vue de réduire dans toute la mesure du possible la contribution supplémentaire à demander  aux Etats membres, qui s’élève à ce jour à 12. 652. 100 dollars.
18. 2 Je me garderai de proposer une formule ou une stratégie tendant à nous éviter à  l’avenir d’étre victimes des difficultés d’une monnaie quelle qu’elle soit. C’est sur la  manière de combler ce déficit de 12.652. 100 dollars que je voudrais faire quelques re-  marques au nom du gouvernement de la République de Haute-Volta. Tous les Etats  membres ont été mis sur le même pied face à ce déficit, comme s’il n’existait pas de  responsables connus de cette situation. Il faudrait distinguer entre les Etats qui en bé-  néficient, ceux qui en sont responsables et ceux qui en sont victimes.
18.3 Mais avant d’en arriver là, je voudrais déclarer que mon pays est d’accord avec  les propositions de crédits supplémentaires faites par le Conseil exécutif et le SeCré-  tariat général. En effet, si l’exécution des programmes de 1’Unesco pour 1973-1974  devait être compromise ou rendue impossible par le déficit existant, les plus grands per-  dants seraient les pays du Tiers Monde. La Haute-Volta soutient donc qu’il faut combler ce  déficit, et qu’il aurait dQ l’être essentiellement par les pays responsables OU bénéfi-  ciaires de la situation, de manière que le programme adopté par la Conférence géné-  rale a sa dix-septième session puisse &tre intégralement exécute. Quant aux pays du  Tiers Monde, ils sont les pures victimes de la catastrop:ie financière mondiale qu’on  leur demande de contribuer à réparer par un apport supplémentaire de crédits, qu’il  leur faudra prélever sur des budgets déjà très inférieurs à leurs besoins. Il me semble,  Monsieur le Président, que cela n’est pas très juste ; je dirai méme que la solidarité  internationale dont nous avons tant besoin s’en trouve quelque peu dénaturée.
18.4 La Haute-Volta appartient non seulement au Tiers Monde, mais encore à sa par-  tie la plus défavorisée par la nature. Elle compte en effet au nombre des pays du  Sahel, dont le porte-parole, le général Sangoulé Lamizana, président de la République  de Haute-Volta, vient de lancer un appel au monde entier, à partir de la tribune des  Nations Unies. L’insuffisance des pluies fait actuellement s’abattre sur nos pays de  multiples fléaux et il me semble difficile pour l’Unesco, en cette conférence extraordi-  naire, de ne pas en tenir compte.
18.5 La Haute-Volta souhaite donc que l’actuel déficit du budget 1973-1974 de notre  Organisation soit couvert par un effort supplémentaire de la part des pays qui en ont  les moyens, afin que l’action bienfaisante de 1’Unesco en faveur du Tiers Monde puisse  se poursuivre conformément aux voeux formulés lors de la dix-septième session de la  Conférence générale.
19. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie M. Tamini et je donne la parole à Mme Istvan Berényi, de la déléga-  tion de la Hongrie.
20. 1 Mrs. BERENYI (Hungary):  Thank you, Mr. President, for giving me the opportunity to make a brief state-  ment as regards our standpoint and opinion on the financial situation of the Organization.
20. 2 The competent authorities of my country and the Hungarian National Commission  for Unesco have had an opportunity to study the relevant working documents, the resolu-  tion of the Executive Board and the proposa1 of the Board inviting this extraordinary ses-  sion of the General Conference to accept that resolution. The delegation of my country  during General Conference and Executive Board sessions has had the opportunity to make  suggestions, observations and to propose rational innovations with a view to increasing  the efficiency of the programme activities and reducing the administrative expenses of  the Organization. When one has had the opportunity of participating in the work of the  Administrative Commission of the Executive Board, one is well aware of the problems  relative to this facet of the Organization’s activity. The better .one gets acquainted with  administrative and financial matters in the Organization, the more one feels there is to  be done in the field of the rationalization of programme-oriented administration.
20. 3 We followed with great interest the introductory work - excellent as usual - of  the Director-General and the interventions of a number of delegations, and having  listened to them, 1 wish to make just a few remarks to explain our standpoint.
20. 4 We highly appreciate the efforts of the Director-General and those of the Secre-  tariat to substantially reduce the deficit of the Organization in an emergency situation  like this - the savings and the curtailments effected, as the Director-General said yester-  day. Parallel to our sincere appreciation, stands our firm conviction that there are
3x/4  further ways and means of rationalization of the administrative expenses of the Organi-  zation. These possibilities have been dwelt on in the suggestion put forward by the Soviet  delegation, with which we are in full agreement.
20. 5 1 would like to underline nevertheless that, when saying this, we are not inany  way against development. What we are for is rationalization directed towards greater  stress on helping developing countries to achieve their goals in the fields of education,  science and culture. My country, too, is a small country, and one where planned  economy governs the financial system. For us, just as for SO many other countries, a  sudden change in the budget would cause certain problems. In saying this, 1 would like  to repeat our suggestion, already made several times, to the effect that, with further  economization and rationalization, the efficiency of programme activities could be in-  creased and administrative expenses reduced.
20. 6 TO conclude, 1 would like to state, however, Mr. President, that in our vote on  the draft resolution we do not intend to hinder the Organization in its attempt to find a  way out of this difficult situation. Thank you, Mr. President.
21. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie Mme Berényi et je donne la parole à S. Ext. M. Kanu, deladélégation  de la Sierra Leone.
22. 1 Mr. KANU (Sierra Leone):  Mr. President, since 1 indicated my intention to speak at today’s plenary of the  third session of the General Conference, several distinguished delegates have already  made some of the points 1 wanted to make when 1 requested the microphone. 1 shall  therefore not take much of the time of the Conference by repeating points which have  been made with clarity and vigour by others.
22. 2 Mr. President, 1 wish to renew the Sierra Leone Government’s unfailing dedica-  tion to the high principles on which Unesco was founded. We are aware of the vital work  which this Organization is doing, especially in the developing nations of the world. Con-  sequently, Mr. President, the Government of Sierra Leone does not, at this stage, favour  the idea of reducing or freezing the activities of Unesco, especially in the field of  education.
22. 3 As regards the budgetary problems which this Conference was convened to tackle,  my delegation would like to associate itself with those who have rightly pointed out that  inflation, the primary cause of the problem, was and is being exported from the developed  nations to the developing countries of the world. My delegation shares the view, there-  fore, that the developing countries cannot be made to bear the burden of this problem.  In making this point, Mr. President, I have at the back of my mind the lucid and clear  presentation by the Director-General of the serious financial problems which Unescois
3x14  facing as a result of inflation and the devaluation of the dollar. If I heard him correctly -  and here 1 stand to be corrected - the Director-General remarked, inter alia, that those  countries whose currencies have been revalued upwards in relation to the dollar may not  have to make supplementary payments which are needed to offset the huge deficit in the  current budget of Unesco. The implication of this, Mr. President, is that those poor  countries whose currencies are unavoidably tied to a weak international currencywhich  has been devalued Will have to pay more, while rich countries whose powerful economies  make an upward revaluation of their currencies inevitable will pay less. Such a situa-  tion should not and must not be allowed to persist.
22. 4 Nor cari we solve the problem by simply changing the currency of accounting,  since every major currency is subject to the strains and stresses of the current insta-  bility in the money markets of the world. Today we are meeting to find solutions to the  problems of inflation and the devaluation of the dollar. A change to a stronger currency  might well bring us together again to consider the high cost of purchasing the new currency  of accounting. My delegation therefore wishes to recommend the immediate introduction  of an Exchange Compensation Allowance into the accounting system, SO that the fluctua-  tions in international currencies cari be reflected in the records of Unesco and the actual  contributions of the Member States. The aim, Mr. President, is to find a just and equi-  table system of contributions in spite of the present chaotic state of affairs in the inter-  national money markets. In other words, Member States should not be made to profit or  lose as a result of the rise and fa11 in the value of major currencies.
22. 5 Finally, Mr. President, my delegation wishes to stress mat, while the Sierra  Leone Government appreciates the measures already taken by the Director-General to  reduce the deficit in the budget of Unesco, it remains our earnest hope that these measures  will not reduce the effectiveness of Unesco or lead to its stagnation. Thank you,  Mr. President.
23. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie M. Kanu et je donne la parole à S. Ext. M. Pompiliu Macovei, chef  de la délégation de la Roumanie.
24.1 M. MACOVEI (Roumanie) :  Monsieur le Président, avec votre permission, j’entrerai, sans aucune introduc-  tion préalable, dans le vif du sujet pour exposer - le plus brièvement possible - la po-  sition de la délégation roumaine à l’égard des problèmes qui constituent l’objet de ce  débat.
24.2 Mais, je tiens tout d’abord à m’associer - et très chaleureusement - à tous ceux  qui ont rendu ici hommage au travail excellent du Conseil exécutif qui, en étroite colla-
3XCl4  boration avec le Directeur général, s’est donné tant de peine pour trouver des solutions  appropriées aux sérieux problèmes financiers qui confrontent notre Organisation.
24.3 La gravite du déficit budgétaire de 1’Unesco du - il faut le reconnaftre dès le début -  à des raisons extérieures, indépendantes de la volonté de l’Organisation et les problèmes  financiers de la solution desquels dépendra la possibilité de réaliser le programme que  la Conférence générale a approuvé regardent et intéressent tous les Etats membres, et  c’est pour Cela que Cette troisième session extraordinaire de la Conférence générale  revêt à nos yeux une importance particulière.
24.4 La Roumanie, pays socialiste en voie de développement, apprécie comme une des  réalisations majeures de l’unesco, la contribution que celle-ci n’a cessé d’apporter  - par la voie des programmes opérationnels, dans le cadre de sa politique d’aide au dé-  veloppement - aux progrès de l’éducation, de la science et de la culture, dans les pays  qui se sont engagus dans la voie de leur développement indépendant.
24.5 Le Directeur général, dans son intervention à la dix-septième session de la Con-  férence générale, définissait très expressivement l’aide au développement comme “une  oeuvre urgente de justice, destinée à rattraper les retards et à corriger les iniquités de  l’histoire”, tâche qui est “en dernière analyse, la grande, la vraie mission de l’Unesco”,  et pour l’accomplissement de laquelle elle doit répondre, dans les domaines de sa com-  pétence, à une “problématique humaine”, aux questions qui demandent des solutions “a  l’échelle de l’espèce et de la planète”.
24. 6 La politique d’aide au développement, les actions opérationnelles et la coopéra-  tion intellectuelle internationale forment, en effet, les grands axes autour desquels  doivent s’articuler les efforts et les entreprises de 1’Unesco. En accomplissant cette  noble vocation, 1’Unesco sert implicitement la cause de la compréhension internationale,  de la paix et de la sécurité des peuples.
24. 7 Le gouvernement roumain considère que 1’Unesco est indissolublement liée à son  programme et que ce programme est le principal élément qui caractérise le profil de  l’Organisation et qui définit sa personnalité, parce qu’il découle des buts et des tâches  fondamentaux inscrits dans son Acte constitutif. C’est dire, Monsieur le Président, que  le programme adopté par les Etats membres est la raisond’être m@me de 1’Unesco.
24.8 Le programme de l’organisation pour les années 1973-1974, que la Conférence  générale a approuvé lors de sa dix-septième session à la suite d’un fructueux débat,  constitue - à notre avis - un ensemble indispensable de mesures destinées à assurer la  mise en pratique des grands principes de l’unesco, la solution des problèmes impor-  tants qui se posent dans ses domaines d’activité, la réalisation de programmes et de  projets opérationnels d’une portée particulière pour le développement de l’éducation,  de la science et de la culture dans les Etats membres.
24.9 Pour ces raisons, nous considérons que les dispositions à prendre pour régler  la difficile situation financière à laquelle l’organisation doit faire face ne doivent pas  porter atteinte à l’intégrité du programme approuvé par la Conférence générale et qu’il  faut éviter l’adoption de mesures qui seraient de nature à affecter gravement ce pro-  gramme ou à nuire aux projets opérationnels.
24.10 N’oublions pas que, pour les pays en voie de développement, l’augmentation du  montant de leurs contributions représente déjà, à l’échelle de leurs possibilités, un  lourd effort, et que, si l’on réduisait sensiblement les programmes et les projets opé-  rationnels - qui leur sont destinés - cela ferait peser sur eux une partie disproportion-  née du poids des mesures envisagées.
24.11 D’autre part, nous partageons l’inquiétude qui s’est manifestée au cours du débat  à propos de la situation très préoccupante dans laquelle - par suite de la conjoncture  monétaire incertaine et imprévisible - l’Organisation pourrait continuer à se trouver :  l’inflation menace de s’aggraver et il risque de se produire de nouveaux changements  dans le taux de change de la monnaie de compte.
24. 12 C’est pour cela, Monsieur le Président, que, tout en exprimant notre entière  adhésion aux solutions et mesures proposées par le Conseil exécutif, nous appuyons fer-  mement les propositions très pertinentes qui ont été faites par certains des orateurs  précédents en vue d’aider le Directeur général dans les efforts qu’il déploie pour amé-  liorer la gestion de l’organisation et pour augmenter l’efficacité de ses activités.
24.13 Nous faisons nûtres les recommandations de ceux qui ont invité le Directeur gé-  néral et le Secrétariat à poursuivre et à renforcer leur politique d’austérité financière  en vue de réaliser de nouvelles économies, surtout en ce qui concerne les dépenses  d’administration ou celles qui sont sans rapport direct avec l’exécution du programme  ou avec la mise en pratique des projets opérationnels.
24.14 La modicité relative des ressources doit étre compensée par‘un effort continu de  rationalisation, d’amélioration et d’assouplissement des méthodes de travail, par la  préoccupation constante d’éviter toute dépense inutile.
24. 15 Dans le meme esprit, nous considérons qu’il faut envisager une association plus  étroite des Etats membres à l’élaboration et, surtout, à l’exécution des programmes et  des projets de 1’Unesco et qu’il importe aussi d’améliorer la répartition des tâches et  des moyens entre les organisations internationales (gouvernementales et non gouverne-  mentales), entre 1’Unesco et les autres institutions spécialisées, entre le Secrétariat,  les centres régionaux et les commissions nationales, ces dernières devant tout particu-  lièrement étre incitées à apporter un concours plus actif à la réalisation du programme.
24. 16 A cet égard, nous faisons pleinement confiance au Conseil exécutif et au Direc-  teur général qui, avec leurs qualités de sagesse, d’énergie et de persévérance, sauront,
3X/4  nous en sommes persuadés, apporter aux difficultés que rencontre 1’Unesco les solu-  tions durables nécessaires pour que notre Organisation puisse remplir toujours plus ef-  ficacement ses nobles tâches, en contribuant au progrès de l’éducation, de la science et  de la culture, en venant en aide aux pays en voie de développement et en renforçant la  coopération et la compréhension internationales.
24.17 Telles sont, Monsieur le Président, les principales observations que la déléga-  tion roumaine a jugé utile de formuler dans le cadre du débat sur la situation financière  de 1’Unesco.
25. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie M. Macovei et je donne la parole a M. Ken Ikebe, de la délégation du  Japon.
26. 1 Mr. IKEBE (Japan):  Mr. President, in view of the limited time available and in keeping with your  request, 1 will try to be as brief as possible.
26. 2 First of ail, my delegation wishes to join other delegations in expressing its ap-  preciation to the Director-General for his efforts to meet the cost of $7, 69 1, 000 due to  inflation and $1, 600, 000 which is a part of the costs due to devaluation of the currency  of account, by interna1 savings and with the Appropriation Reserve, without recourse to  supplementary estimates.
26. 3 Secondly, my delegation wishes to thank the Executive Board for having made  the excellent recommendation contained in paragraph 28 of document 3 XC/4.
26. 4 Mr. President, as has been SO eloquently recounted by the Vice-Chairman ofthe  Executive Board in his report, and as has been pointed out by a number of delegations,  this recommendation is a result of an extensive and thorough study by the Executive  Board. In the view of my delegation, it enables our Organization to preserve the vital  part of its programmes approved by the seventeenth session of the General Conference,  while keeping the amount of supplementary appropriations to the minimum. Thus it  represents the best possible compromise under the present circumstances - the most  realistic approach to the solution of the problem our Organization now faces.
26. 5 In view of this, Mr. President, my delegation is prepared to accept and Support  the recommendation made by the Executive Board.
26. 6 Having said that, Mr. President, 1 would like to add a few remarks on some points  relevant to the Board’s recommendation.
26. 7 My first remark concerns the outstanding payments of assessed contributions.  I recall that, in his introductory speech yesterday, the Director- General stated that  one-third of the total amount of the contributions for 1973 is outstanding at this very  moment. According to my calculations, this represents, in terms of absolute figures,
3XCl4  some 18 million dollars. NO doubt it Will greatly improve the tight cash position of the  Organization, if these outstanding contributions are promptly paid. Therefore, my  delegation wishes to appeal to the Member States concerned to make every effort to  expedite the payment of those outstanding contributions.
26. 8 Mr. President, some observations and suggestions have been made as to the  desirability of finding a solution to put the Organization’s finances on a more stable  basis, a solution which Will insulate or isolate the Organization’s programmes and  budget from the effects of future fluctuations of the international monetary system. My  delegation recognizes the desirability of finding such a solution but, at the same time,  my delegation feels that the financial and monetary impacts and implications such a  solution may possibly have on the Member States should be thoroughly studied before  the Organization takes any action which Will introduce changes to its present financial  and accounting system. Also, since this is a problem common to other parts of the  United Nations system of organizations, such studies may be conducted in conjunction  with other agencies and organizations. In view of these considerations and of the limited  time available to this session of the General Conference, my delegation feels that this  extraordinary session of the General Conference should concentrate its efforts on tackling  the immediate problem which urgently requires a solution.
26. 9 Mr. President, from its national point of view, my Government is not entirely  satisfied with the Board’s recommendation, and it was not without difficulty that my  Government has decided to accept this recommendation. My Government had two dif-  ficulties: one concerns the schedule of the payment of assessed contributions, and the  other, the authorization of loans. I Will not go into the substantive details of the prob-  lem but, with your permission, 1 would like to touch on them very briefly.
26. 10 As for the payment schedule, under the complex budgetary and appropriation  procedures of my Government, it is extremely difficult to make the payment of supple-  mentary contributions according to this schedule of payments. My Government bas al-  ways taken meticulous tare to meet its international financial obligations in time, and it  is not without some pain that it visualizes a situation in which it Will have to carry ar-  rears in the payment of its contributions.
26. 11 With respect to the authorization of short-term loans, my Government has al-  ways held the view that an international organization should, as a matter of principle,  avoid contracting loans, under any but really exceptional circumstances. My Govern-  ment’s attitude is based on rather obvious reasons. Namely, an international organiza-  tion financially depending on the assessed contributions of Member States should -net  burden the Member States with the eventual aàditional costs required for the payment of
3XCf4  interests. Another reason is that the rates of assessment applicable at the time of au-  thorizing loans and those expected to be in force at the time of the repayment of capital  and interests may presumably differ, thus possibly resulting in an inequitable distribu-  tion of financial burdens among the Member States.
26. 12 In spite of these difficulties, my Government has decided to accept the relevant  parts of the Executive Board’s recommendation, firstly because my Government rea-  lizes the urgent necessity of securing funds for supplementary appropriations, and  secondly, because my Government recognizes the reality that the authorization ofloans  seems to be the only way to enable the Organization to tide over the tight cash position  expected. My Government’s decision was also prompted by the complete trust it places  in the Director-General, that he Will exercise every caution to keep the amount of loan  he contracts to a necessary minimum.
26. 13 Mr. President, as I said at the outset, my Government considers the recommen-  dation of the Executive Board is the best possible solution in the interests of the Organi-  zation as a whole, and my Government has reached a conclusion that this consideration  far outweighs its national viewpoint. It is in this spirit of co-operation that my delega-  tion supports the Executive Board’s proposal, and hopes that other delegations Will also  find it possible to support it. Thank you.
27. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie M. Ken Ikebe et je donne la parole à S. Ext. Alhaji Ahmed Joda,  chef de la délégation du Nigéria.
28. 1 Mr. AHMED JODA (Nigeria):  Mr. President, the main speeches for this session have already beendelivered  at the seventeenth session of the General Conference held in October, 1972. This extra-  ordinary session of the General Conference has been called for a special purpose - namely  to consider the financial situation of our Organization. Member States are, of course,  a11 aware of the background to this problem - the world monetary crisis, It is, there-  fore, in that context that their distinguished delegates to this session are being asked  to consider the request of the Director-General which has been endorsed to us by the  Executive Board. SO, Mr. President, 1 propose to be brief.
28. 2 My country, in common with other Member States, would, of course, always  wish to see that the budget of Unesco i, c kept within reasonable limits. We hope that  the Director-General Will continue to exercise every reasonable control on behalf of US  a11 over the growth of expenditure. But at the same time, Mr. President, we would  urge a11 Member States to ensure that any control is consistent with their reasonable  expectations and would not be detrimental to the useful work that this Organization is  doing throughout the world. While, therefore, my delegation Will always try to ensure
226    economies of expenditure, we would be reluctant to see the curtailment of reasonable  growth and expansion of the activities of the Organization in different parts of the world,  but especially in the underdeveloped territories. We would express the hope that the  measures we are being called upon to take Will not seriously affect the work of Unesco,  the Member States and the non-governmental organizations working in conjunction with  Unesco.
28. 3 We, in Nigeria, wish to acknowledge the benefits we have continued to derive  from Unesco and its sister organizations, the United Nations Development Programme  and the UnitedNations Children’s Fund. It is our earnest hope that our country andother  countries in a similar state of development Will continue to look up to the CO-operation  and support of these organizations for assistance for our many and varied development  programmes now and in the future. In Nigeria, Unesco is intimately involved in allas-  pects of our educational development programmes. We consider its continued support  and participation in these programmes of development to be vital for our success.
28. 4 Mr. President, my country supports fully the growth of Unesco and urges a11  Member States to support the resolution of the Executive Board which we hope Will en-  sure that the operations of our Organization Will continue as envisaged by the seventeenth  session of the General Conference. Thank you.
29. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie M. Joda et je donne la parole à S. Ext. M. Bat-Otchiryn Gotov, chef  de la délégation de la Mongolie.
30.2 Hama Aenerauus cqu-raeT, rITO nepeA TpeTbeti spe3BbrsaFikioG cecckiefi resepanbeofi  KOHf$EpeHLWIM K]HECKO CTOMT TpyAHax M OTBeTCTBeHHaR @kiHaHCOBaR npo6neMa, OT peme-  HMR KOTOpOti B 3HaVMTeJIbHOti CTeneHM 3aBMCMT FiBTOpMTeT M 6yAyuee NHECKO. AAir TOrO  sTo6bI pa3pemHTb 3Ty npo6neMy HeO6XOAMMO npemAe Bcero RCHO M OnpeAeneHHO YCTaHO-  BMTb BCe A0 eAHHoki npM=iIMHbI, BbI3bIBaIOJJMe Ae@iUMT GroAmeTa, a 3aTeM HâfiTM CooTBeT-  CTByJfJqMe nyTM MX yCTpEiHeHWl. n0 HaUIeMy MHeHMIO, KOHCTâTMpOBaB HeXBaTKy CpeACTB
6 IoAxeTa > npMHMMaTb JIMUlb MepbI AJIFI npeOAOJleHI4fl KpM3MCa TOJIbKO 3a C9eT AOnOIIHHTeJIb-  HbIX B3HOCOB FIBJIReTCÇI OAHOCTOpOHHMM M HeAOCTaTO=lHbIM, nOCKOJIbKy 3T0 peIUeHkie OCTâB-  JIReT HeTpOHyTbIM CâM KOpeHb 3nâ, KoTopbIfi qepe3 HeKOTOpOe BpeM5l OnRTb 3aCTaBMT Hac
3aHMMaTbCR npo6JIeMoti @MHaHCOBOrO nOnOxeHMR OpraHki3a4I.w M CHOBa CoCTaBJIRTb Aonon-  HaTenbHYD CMeTY> yBeJIkIWïBaR pa3Mepbl u TaK pa3AyToro 6IoAmeTa K)HECKO.
30.3 KaK MbI Bce xopomo 3HaeM, OCHOBHbIMM npM9kiHaMM Ae&fquTa 61oAmeTa K)HECKO  FIBJlReTCFI AeBaJlbBa4H5I aMepuKaHcKor0 Aonnapa, RBnsfmqerocR paweTHofi eAMHMUefi 61oAxw-  Ta, a TaKxe MH$‘nR4MR. IIepBoe, qT0 6pocaeTcx B rJIa3a, l-'OCnOAkiH npeACeAaTeJïb, 3TO TO,  rITO M3-3a STMX AByx OCHOBHbIX @ZlKTOpOB, 3â KOTOpbIe HeCyT OTBeTCTBeHHOCTb JIMIUb He-  MHOI-Me CTpaHbI, npMXoAMTCi CTpaAaTb BCeM OCTaJIbHbIM rOCyAapCTBaM-YJIeHaM; HeCeT  Y6bITKH M CaMa OpraHr43awx. Harua Aeneraum c9kiTaeT, 9~0 TaKoe nonoxeHkie He MomeT  IIpOAOJl~aTbCR. Heo6xoAmdo npeAnpUHxTb MepbI Ans ero kicnpaBneHm.
30.4 MbI CqMTaeM, rlT0 Ae@ïrlHT 6IoAHteTa MHECKO MOKHO 6bIno 6bI noKpbITb B 6onbruefi  =laCTM 3a 'PIeT BHyTpeHHMX MCT04HMKOB OpraHM3a~MM MB MeHbIIIeti=IaCTki - 3a CrIeT AoIlOlI-  HMTeJIbHbIx B3HoCoB roCyAapCTB. B STOti CBR~M, rocnoAuw rIpeAceAaTenb, MbI CrIkiTaeM  TaK ?Ke , %To 6bIno 6bI HeCnpaBeAJWiBO Tpe6OBaTb AOnOJïHMTeiTbHbIX B3HOCOB OT TeX CTpaH,  KoTopbIe He AoJImHbI HeCTM OTBeTCTBeHHOCTM 3â npMYMHb1, BbI3bIBaIOIl(Me ~W&iLWïT, 1460 Ta-  KaR npaKTkiKa > B KOH4e KOH4OB, npkisena 6bI K trapymemI0 CâMOTO npmuma yCTaHOBJIeHWl  AonM B3HoCoB rOCyAapCTB Ha OCHOBe MX Ha4MOHaJIbHOrO AoxoAa. MbI no-npemHeMy CqkfTa-  eM, =ITo pa3MepbI B3HOCOB rOCyAapCTB-WIeHoB KlHECKO He AonxcHbI pacTYr 6bICTpee, =xeM  TeMnbI POCTa MX Ha4MOHaJIbHOr0 AOXOAa.
30.6 Heo6xoAMMo npeAnpHH5ITb MepbI AJIR pe3KOrO COKpaLQeHMfi 3TMx PaCXOAOB, a C3KoHobr  JIeHHbIe CpeACTBa MCnOJIb30BaTb AJ’W nOKpbITMSI Ae@MrlMTZi 61oAmeTa. 3TM CPeAcTBa MOrYT
6bITb nOJIyreHbI> n0 HaIUeMy MHeHMK), nyTeM BpeMeHHOrO 3aMOpaXGiBaHWI BaKaHTHbIx no-  CTOB M yl-IpOIQeHti5iCTpyKTypbI annapaTa, pe3Koro coKpaueHMfl HaiiMa BpeMeHHoro nepcoaa-  Jla M KOHCyJIbTaHTOB, pe3Koro CoKpaqeHuri o6neMa M KOJIM4eCTBa O@kiUMaJIbHbIX AoKyMeH-  TOB, COBe IqaaGi, KOH@epeHUHü M KOMaHAMpOBOK M T. A.
30.7 HJI~ pa3pa6oTKH AonOAHMTeJlbHbIX Mep no 6opb6e C Ae@WfToM 6K’A)KeTa 6onbmoe  sHaseHMe MMeno 6bI TaKxe pacmMpeme npaB roCyAapCTB ynnaq>iBaTb qaCTb B3HoCoBBCBo-  MX HaljMOHaJIbHbIX BaJIlOTaX, M B nepByI0 osepenb TeX rocyAapCTB, KoTOpbIe He OTBeTCTBeH-  HbI 38 AeBaJIbBaUMIO M MH@JlR4MIO, KoTopbIe RBJIRIOTCSI rJIaBHbIMM npWiMHaMM CTOJIb KpynHo-  ro Ae@MUuTa, c KoTopbIM CTonKHynaCb ceksac K)HECKO.
30.8 TaKOBbI B o6ueM, rocnoAMH IIpeAceAaTenb, HeKOTOpbIe coo6pameHkiR HameH Aenera-  UMM OTHOCMTeJIbHO HbIHeIUHerO @MHaHCOBOrO nOnO~eHMR IOHECKO M hfep, KOTopbIe Heo6xo-  AIMMO npeAnpMH5ITb B CBFI3M C 3TMM. Hama AeneraUMH 3aBepHeT Bac, ZITO OHa OKa.xeT He-
3XCl4  MOMY HaMM BOIIPOCY, KOTOpbIe MOryT 6bITb BbIABHHyTbI YBaXaeMblMH AeJIeraWxMH ApyrMx  CTpaH. EnaroAapro 3a BHMMaHlle.
(30. 1) Mr. GOTOV (Mongolia) (Translation from the Russian):  Mr. President, permit me, on behalf of our delegation, to congratulate you once more on  being elected to occupy the high office of President of the extraordinary session of the General  Conference, and to assure you of our conviction that your competence and experience Will help us  in this session to find an effective and satisfactory solution to the financial problems of our  Organization.
(30. 2) In the opinion of our delegation, the prestige and future of Unesco willdepend in large mea-  sure on the solution of the difficult and serious financial problem now facing the third extraordinary  session of the General Conference. In order to solve this problem, it is essential first to identify  a11 the causes responsible for the budget deficit, and then to find ways of eliminating them. In our
7  opmion, merely to recognize the shortage of budgetary funds and take measures to overcome the  crisis by means of supplementary contributions alone is insufficient, since this does not go to the  root of the evil, with the result that, in a few years I time, we shall again be faced with the same  financial problem and again have to draw up supplementary estimates, thus further enlarging  Unesco’s already swollen budget.
(30. 3) As we a11 know very well, the fundamental reasons for the deficit in Unesco’s budget are  the devaluation of the American dollar, the currency of accounting, and inflation. The first thing  that strikes us, Mr. President, is that, on account of these two basic factors, for which only a  few countries are responsible, a11 the other Member States are also having to suffer. And the  Organization itself is being impared. In the opinion of our delegation, this state of affairs cannot  last; measures must be taken to remedy the situation.
(30. 4) We consider that the deficit in Unesco’s budget could be covered in large measure from  the interna1 resources of the Organization and in lesser measure by supplementary contributions  from Member States. In this connexion, Mr. President, we also think that it would be unjust to  demand supplementary contributions from those countries which are not responsible for the causes  of the deficit, for this would, in the last resort, be an infringement of the principle of basing  States’ contributions on their national income. We continue to take the view that the rate of in-  crease of Unesco Member States’ contributions should not exceed the rate of growth of their  national incomes.
(30. 5) As regards the interna1 resources referred to above, there is no doubt that our Organiza-  tion does possess such resources. By “interna1 resources” our delegation means unj.ustified  expenditure, which could be used to caver the budget deficit.
(30. 6) It is essential to take measures to curtail such expenditure severely and to use the re-  sources thus saved to help caver the budget deficit. These resources could be obtained, in our  opinion, by temporarily freezing vacant posts and simplifying the structure of the Secretartat,  considerably curtailing the recruitment of temporary personnel and consultants, greatly reducing  the volume and number of officia1 documents, meetings, conferences, missions and SO on.
(30. 7) Another important means of eliminating the budget deficit would be to extend the right of  Member States to pay part of their contributions in their own national currencies, more especial-  ly those members who are not responsible for the devaluation and inflation which are the main  causes of Unesco’s present large deiicit.
(30. 8) Such, Mr. President, are our delegation’s views on Unesco’s present financial situation  and the measures that must be taken to remedy it. Our delegation assures you that we shall lend  the necessary support and co-operation for the implementation of any constructive proposals to  deal with the problem under discussion which the delegates of other countries may put forward.  Thank you.
229  -7 l
31. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie M. Gotov. Je donne maintenant la parole à S. Ext. M. Cummings,  chef de la délégation du Libéria.
32. 1 Mr. CUMMINGS (Liberia):  Mr. President, the Liberian delegation has pleasure in taking part in this very  serious and important debate affecting the future and very life of this Organization. My  Government has always supported the wisdom and discretion of the Director-General and  the members of the Executive Board, who enjoy our confidence as a result of the authority  and responsibility granted them by our suffrage. My delegation therefore supports the  recommendations of the Executive Board and the Director-General in their search for a  solution to the grave financial problems which confront the Organization at this time.
32. 2 My delegation considers the solutions put forward by the Executive Board and  the Director-General in respect of the financial situation to be clear, understandable,  practical, reasonable and most appropriate, if the issue must be resolved with speed.  The financial problems which confront the Organization are not hypothetical, theoreti-  cal nor the result of some imaginary phenomena. The issues are the result of present-  day economic conditions which exist throughout the world. Devaluation and inflation are  realities and facts of life. No one cari deny this, because every country is experiencing  their effects in some shape or other form.
32. 3 Mr. President, it is gratifying to note that the Director-General and the Execu-  tive Board have already engaged in efforts to find a solution to the present financial  crisis by endeavouring to discover savings within the programme and budget, which in  essence is not an act of saving per se, but a curtailing of some of the important activi-  ties and programmes of the Organization. This kind of exercise could not continue with-  out seriously affecting the quality of the work of Unesco.
32. 4 Mr. President, the rôle of Unesco, in the opinion of my delegation, is to improve  the worth and value of mankind and not to reduce or destroy its quality. When a man sets  out to build a house, he does SO with a view of developing a structure that Will be safe,  durable, and lasting. If for any reason the high cost of labour or materials alters or  changes the original estimate, he never considers reducing the cost of the building by  resorting to cheaper labour and inferior materials, which would pose a threat to its  durability; rather, he seeks to supplement these additional costs by practical means,  such as loans or extra contributions and SO forth. The same seems to be applicable to  our present situation. It is therefore obvious that, if we continue to find a solution to  our present financial problems by reducing the quality of work of our Organization and  also by curtailing its programmes and activities, it is the developing countries which
230    Will be most adversely affected; and thus the very concept of improving the worth of the  individual through education, science, and culture, which is the principal objective of  Unesco, would have been lost.
32. 5 It would be most unfortunate, Mr. President, if in the final analysis this Organi-  zation should attempt to measure the worth and dignity of man and the preservation of  peace in terms of dollars and cents. It is true that $12, 652, 100 is a considerable amount  in terms of financial outlay, but in terms of the application of this amount and the objec-  tives it is destined to achieve, this is nominal. My delegation therefore appeals to the  conscience of a11 our colleagues here present, to exercise wisdom and sound judgement  in disposing of this very serious yet vital issue. We realize that the contribution of the  more developed nations would be enormous, at this critical period in the economies of  a11 countries, but comparatively speaking the burden Will be equally enormous for the  developing countries, which are faced with even greater financial strain in their develop-  ment process.
32. 6 It is for the foregoing and other reasons that the Liberian delegation supports  the proposals and recommendations of the Director-General and the Executive Board,  as contained in documents 3 XC/3 and 3 XC/4, which clearly outline the present finan-  cial position of the Organization and propose the most practical approach to a solution  of the same. Thank you Mr. President.
33. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie M. Cummings et je donne la parole a M. Stanley Muka, chef de la dé-  légation du Kenya.
34. 1 Mr. MUKA (Kenya):  Mr. President, first 1 want to congratulate you for being elected to this high  office of Presidency of this third extraordinary session of the General Conference. You  have performed your duty with unparalleled wisdom. Your guidance has certainly con-  tributed to the progress we have made SO far.
34. 2 Next 1 wish to express my sincere gratitude to the Vice-Chairman of the Execu-  tive Board and to the Director-General for the clear, precise and scholarly wayinwhich  they introduced the topic under discussion, namely, supplementary estimates. From  document 3 XC/4 we are able to read the financial situation of the Organization, andthe  measures the Secretariat has SO far exercised in an attempt to tope with the crisis or  part of the.crisis. This document provides a written addition to the oral exposition by  the Chairman of the Executive Board and the Director-General which we had yesterday.  The deficit outlined, that is U. S. $12, 625, 100, is not a small sum that cari be contained  within normal measures. As we have seen, the Secretariat tried to deal with it, but  sooner or later, were forced to ask for help. There is a saying in my vernacular, literally
3XCl4  translated, which says”he who coughs is better than he who scratches himself”. The  Director-General, as head of the Secretariat, has coughed, the Executive Board, elec-  ted by us, the General Assembly, have heard his cough and reacted positively, as we see  in document 3 XC/4. We are now here responding to the original cough from the  Director- General.
34. 3 It iS gratifying to look around and see that the turnout for this session is very  large despite the short notice. This confirms the co-operative spirit we Member States  of LJnesco have. It also indicates the faith we have in our Organization. It is todaythat
1 realize that Unesco is us and we are Unesco. It is today that 1 have known that we are  united in our course. Rich and poor, developing and developed, third world, second  and first world, we are a11 convened here as equal Member States of Unesco, seeking  a solution to enable Unesco to move ahead once again.
34. 4 Yesterday 1 listened to fourteen speeches. 1 have listened to another sixteen to-  day. Al1 these speeches are precise, to the point and enlightening; indeed heartening.  We may vary in clarity, we may vary in approach, we may vary in emphasis and where  we put that emphasis. But the concluding remarks from nearly a11 the distinguished  delegates who have spoken have indicated a positive stand - a stand in favour of supple-  mentary estimates. For this 1 wish to thank those who have already spoken and ex-  pressed their Government’s wish to support the supplementary appropriation. My  earnest appeal to a11 of us delegates is that we cast our vote and cast it in favour ofthe  required sum. Namely U. S. $12, 625,100. A unanimous vote would indeed be ideal as  it would reflect our committed and sympathetic attitude to the uncomfortable situation  that our Organization has found itself in, an uncomfortable situation that has been im-  posed by external circumstances beyond the control of Unesco.
34. 5 My country, Kenya, belongs to the developing world. As members of the devel-  oping world we see Unesco in terms of the programmes it carries out in our countries  or assists us in achieving. 1 know right now we cannot mount certain programmes  that we were to have implemented with Unesco’s assistance, the reason being that Unesco  has just not got the funds, which is an indication that the programme as approved by the  General Conference at its seventeenth session in November 1972 is suffering. There -  fore ifwe approve the supplementary estimates in their entirety, Kenya Will benefit  from Unesco and become more literate. And it is not only Kenya which Will benefit;  but a11 the Member States of Unesco. This in itself is a satisfaction both to Unesco  and to the Member States.
34. 6 A few suggestions have been made by some delegates. These suggestions are  said to be suitable to shield Unesco from getting itself into a serious financial situation  again. These are good suggestions and have merit in them. But my feeling is that we
3XCl4  should leave these suggestions for the eighteenth session of the General Conference  which is only about 12 months away.
34. 7 1 wish to conclude, Mr. President, by indicating my Government’s stand. Kenya  wants to vote for the resolution; and my Government has instructed me to vote on its be-  half for the resolution. In the spirit of Harambee, 1 look forward to seeing a11 of us unani-  mously approving the required supplementary estimates of U. S. $12,625,100. A cough-  ing man is given medicine for relief and we should give it. Thank you Mr. President.
35. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie M. Muka et je donne maintenant la parole à S. Ext. M. Fazlollah  Reza, chef de la délégation de l’Iran.
36.1 M. REZA (Iran) :  Monsieur le Président, la délégation de l’Iran, soucieuse de respecter l’unanimité  qui s’est faite au Conseil exécutif à propos de l’ouverture de crédits supplémentaires,  unanimité que nous espérons retrouver à la Conférence générale, votera en faveur des  propositions présentées par le Conseil. Cette approbation ne nous dispense cependant  pas d’exprimer notre opinion sur certains points qui, à notre avis, sont d’une extreme  importance pour l’avenir de l’Organisation.
36.2 En effet, Monsieur le Président, c’est avec un très vif regret que nous assistons  à la mutilation du programme approuvé par la Conférence générale lors de sa dix-sep-  tième session. Nous avons de fortes raisons de croire que l’inflation et la dévaluation  de la monnaie de compte de l’Organisation, lesquelles résultent toutes deux du désordre  monétaire international qui a perturbé les finances de l’Organisation, sont très loin  d’avoir les memes effets sur l’économie de tous les Etats membres. S’il est vrai que  cette perturbation a lesé certains Etats, il n’en reste pas moins qu’elle en a pour ainsi  dire favorisé un plus grand nombre encore. On nous répondra peut-etre, et cela a été  dit au cours des discussions du Conseil exécutif, que “l’essentiel” du programme sera.  executé ; mais cette notion “d’essentiel” n’a rien de rassurant pour l’avenir. On a  bloqué un nombre important de postes vacants, on a supprimé des réunions, on a sus-  pendu des publications. Dira-t-on que tout cela ne fait pas partie de l’essentiel ? Etant  donné qu’il n’y avait pas de double emploi entre les fonctions des membres du Secréta-  riat, qu’une conférence des représentants d’Etats ne peut remplacer un petit colloque  sur une question spécialisée, qu’aucune publication de 1’Unesco ne nous dispense de la  lecture d’une autre, que l’exécution d’une partie du programme de 1’Unesco est “de  circonstance” et ne saurait être ajournée sans perdre son i.ntérét ; étant donné enfin  que le taux d’augmentation du programme approuvé par la Conférence générale, soit
5, 66 %, se trouve réduit à 0, 84 %, ce qui est le taux le plus faible que l’organisation
3XCl4  ait jamais connu, nous sommes persuadés que l’organisation subit ainsi des pertes  considérables.
36. 3 Je répète, Monsieur le Président, que, soucieux de préserver l’unanimité, nous  acceptons toutes les coupures proposées dans le programme, mais la perspective d’un  avenir où ce précédent créerait une tradition “d’économie” nous inquiète infiniment.
36.4 Etant donné que l’inflation est un processus ordinaire dans l’évolution de l’écono-  mie mondiale et que la conjoncture internationale ne laisse pas entrevoir de perspectives très  claires en ce qui concerne le désordre monétaire, il faut que, sur la proposition du Di-  recteur général, le Conseil exécutif, puis la Conférence générale à sa dix-huitième session,  examinent d’une manière approfondie ce problème ; et si une solution définitive ne pouvait  pas être trouvée dans un proche avenir, il devrait être possible d’augmenter la réserve  budgétaire, de façon à créer une marge appréciable de souplesse qui permettrait d’évi-  ter, à chaque période budgétaire, une amputation du programme ou la convocation d’une  session extraordinaire de la Conférence générale.
36. 5 Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
37. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie M. Reza. Je donne maintenant la pa: ole à S. Ext. M. Boissier-Palun,  de la délégation du Dahomey.
38.1 M. BOISSIER-PALUN (Dahomey) :  A ce stade de la discussion, Monsieur le Président, je me conformerai volontiers  à vos deux recommandations : etre bref et s’en tenir à l’objet de notre ordre du jour,  car, grâce àl’exposé d’introduction denotre éminent collègue, le Vice-Président du Conseil  exécutif, grâce à l’analyse claire et détaillée de la situation présentée par M. le Directeur  général et, enfin, grâce aux observations des nombreux orateurs qui m’ont précédé, nous  sommes complètement et pertinemment informés des causes des difficultés financières de  l’Organisation, des moyens techniques internes déjà mis en oeuvre pour en limiter les con-  séquences, des propositions amplement justifiées dont nous sommes maintenant saisis  en dernier ressort pour fournir à l’Organisation les quelque 12 millions et demi de  dollars nécessaires pour couvrir le déficit résiduel désormais incompressible.
38.2 Je me bornerai donc à indiquer que la délégation du Dahomey n’a plus aucune  raison de douter qu’il soit nécessaire d’adopter dans toutes ses dispositions le projet  de résolution dont nous sommes saisis sur la recommandation du Conseil exécutif. NOUS  le ferons en exprimant cependant notre regret que les solutions proposées laissent les  finances de l’Organisation à la limite de la précarité et que, tout en requérant de la  part des Etats membres des sacrifices importants et imprévus, elles aient pour effet  de compromettre gravement l’exécution d’une partie du programme et d’annuler prati-
3XCl4  quement le taux de progression minimum dont nous avons unaniment reconnu la  nécessité.
38. 3 Par ailleurs, il est évident que, même si l’adoption de ladite résolution nous permet de  surmonter une difficulté momentanée, les causes du mal - l’inflation et la dévaluation de la  monnaie de compte - n’en subsisteront pas moins et ne tarderont pas à remettre en cause tout  ce que nous aurons fait au cours de cette session ; car la conjoncture est telle que nous ne pou-  vons nous faire aucune illusion à cet égard. Mon gouvernement souhaite donc instamment, parce  que pour lui c’est l’essentiel, que le Directeur général continue, en liaison avec les autres or-  ganisations du système des Nations Unies, à rechercher les moyens propres à assurer  à 1’Unesco des ressources de valeur constante, afin de garantir l’exécution des pro-  grammes votés, qu’il rende compte du résultat de ses efforts au Conseil exécutif à sa
94e session et qu’enfin la question soit inscrire à l’ordre du jour de la Conférence gé-  nérale lors de sa dix-huitième session.
38.4 Nous ne saurions nous livrer en permanence à un jeu de saute-mouton : il faut  trouver une solution définitive pour sauvegarder le fonctionnement de notre Organisa-  tion parce que nous, pays sous-développés, avons dans son action une foi sans limites.  Merci, Monsieur le Président.
39. Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie M. Boissier-Palun et je donne la parole à S. Ext. M. Van Ussel, chef  de la délégation de la Belgique.
40.1 M. VAN USSEL (Belgique) :  Monsieur le Président, permettez -moi tout d’abord, au nom de la délégation belge,  de me joindre aux orateurs qui m’ont précédé et de vous présenter nos félicitations les  plus vives pour votre désignation aux importantes fonctions de président de la présente  session extraordinaire de la Conférence générale.
40. 2 Ma délégation est convaincue que, sous votre direction éclairée, nos travaux  pourront étre conclus dans les délais les plus brefs et aboutir à l’adoption des proposi-  tions que le Conseil exécutif nous a recommandées.
40. 3 Monsieur le Président, je crois que nous devons tous rendre hommage au distingué  Directeur général de notre Organisation pour l’exposé clair, précis, détaillé et con-  vaincant qu’il nous a fait hier matin.
40.4 Ma délégation a pris note avec un intéret particulier des suggestions émises dans  la troisième partie de la déclaration de M. Maheu et elle espère que le Secrétariat, en  collaboration avec le Comité administratif de coordination et le Comité consultatif pour  les questions administratives et budgétaires, sera en mesure de préparer, pour les  soumettre à la prochaine session de la Conférence générale, des propositions d’en-
3xct4  semble tendant à l’établissement d’une présentation budgétaire qui, étant conçue pour  tenir compte des aléas des fluctuations monétaires, permettra à l’Organisation de  mieux résister au phénomène de la dépréciation de l’unité de compte, aux conséquences  de la poussée inflatoire et à la gene causée par une trésorerie précaire.
40. 5 Il s’agit là d’un problème complexe dont la solution nécessitera des consultations  appelées à se poursuivre, non seulement dans le cadre du système des Nations Unies,  mais également - et je me permets d’insister sur ce point - avec les délégations des  Etats membres.
40. 6 La Belgique fait confiance au dynamisme et à l’esprit d’imagination du Directeur  général et de ses collaborateurs pour que le prochain budget, tout en reposant sur des  bases financières saines et réalistes, soit de nature à garantir l’exécution graduelle et  ininterrompue des programmes d’action de notre Organisation.
40, 7 Le Directeur général nous a signalé hier matin que ces programmes étaient défa-  vorablement affectés par le déficit budgétaire auquel 1’Unesco doit faire face. Il a cité  certaines des réductions qui ont dfi etre opérées et certaines des activités qui ont dQ  étre reportées.
40. 8 Peut-étre ces mesures auront-elles pour effet d’inciter le Secrétariat et les Etats  membres à procéder à une réévaluation des besoins, à un rétablissement des priorités  et, surtout, à une rationalisation plus courageuse.
40. 9 Certaines délégations ont réclamé, au cours de notre débat, des économies encore  plus substantielles que celles qui ont été réalisées par le Directeur général. Ma déléga-  tion estime pour sa part qu’il serait plus approprié de rechercher en premier lieu les  moyens d’articuler plus efficacement les méthodes de travail de 1’TJnesco avec celles  d’autres institutions ou organismes du système des Nations Unies, et de les coordonner  plus intimement avec celles sur lesquelles reposent les programmes bilatéraux OU mul-  tilatéraux de pa.ys tiers ou d’organisations intergouvernementales. Cette façon d’agir  produirait inévitablement des économies, sans que l’objectif à atteindre soit pour cela  compromis ou mis en danger.
40.10 Il convient donc que, tout en prenant les mesures qu’appelle la situation actuelle,  nous procédions, puisque nous en avons l’occasion, à un véritable examen de conscience  et que nous cherchions ainsi à revigorer notre Organisation qui, plus que n’importe  quelle autre, a la vocation de servir la cause de la paix, par l’entente et la coopération  entre tous les pays du globe.
40. li Monsieur le Président, le gouvernement belge a procédé à un examen approfondi  des propositions de compromis élaborées par le Conseil exécutif et contenues dans le  document 3 XC/4. Il les approuve dans leur ensemble et ma délégation votera en faveur  du projet de résolution qui figure aux pages 6 et 7 du document précité.
40. 12 Nous avons pris note avec satisfaction du fait que le déficit du à l’inflation a été  résorbé grâce à l’utilisation des réserves et aux économies réalisées par le Directeur  général.
40. 13 Quant à la partie dudéficit provoquée par la dévaluation de l’unité de compte, ma  délégation estime que les propositions concrètes formulées dans la section II du projet  de résolution, aux sous-paragraphes (f) et (g), sont réalistes.
40. 14 En ce qui concerne la section III du projet, par laquelle la Conférence générale  autorise le Directeur général à négocier et à contracter, quand cela s’avérera néces-  saire, des emprunts à court terme avec les prêteurs de son choix, nous comptons sur  le Directeur général pour interpréter cette faculté de façon restrictive, Ma délégation  demeure convaincue que la sagesse et les qualités d’administrateur du Directeur gené-  ral l’inciteront à ne recourir à cette autorisation qu’avec discrétion et sans doute après  avoir procédé à des consultations,
40. 15 Monsieur le Président, un célèbre sénateur américain a défini le consensus  comme un accord réalisé autour de l’objectif à atteindre, alors que les parties en cause  diffèrent sur les moyens d’y parvenir. Ma délégation se rallie à cette définition, puisque  les décisions que nous sommes appelés à prendre sont de nature à redresser quelque  peu la situation financière actuelle de notre Organisation. Elles témoignent non seule-  ment de l’esprit de compromis de tous les Etats membres, mais aussi et surtout de  notre détermination de redonner force et vigueur à 1’Unesco en lui permettant de conti-  nuer, sur des bases plus saines, l’oeuvre remarquable qu’elle accomplit dans les do-  maines de 1-a science, de l’éducation et de la culture.
40. 16 Au début de mon intervention, j’ai rendu hommage au Directeur général, qui a  bien mérité de notre Organisation. Qu’il me soit également permis d’exprimer la recon-  naissance du gouvernement belge àl’égard des membres du Conseil executif pour l’oeuvre  constructive qu’ils ont accomplie en vue de redresser la situation financière.
40. 17 Mes dernières paroles iront aux nombreux Etats membres en voie de progrès et  de développement qui ont accepté sans trop de rancoeur J~e compromis proposé par le  Conseil, malgré les réductions opérées dans le prograrnme d’une part et l’accroisse-  ment des charges budgétaires de l’autre. Mon pays a été sensible à cette expression de  la genérosité qui caractérise si fondamentalement les peuples d’Afrique, d’Asie et  dl-Amérique latine. La Belgique comprend et ressent l’impatience légitime de ces peuples.  Elle mettra tout en oeuvre pour que leurs justes aspirations soient entendues et veillera  à ce que l’exécution des programmes d’aide et d’assistance entrepris par 1’Unesco se  poursuive sans interruption et sans atermoiements inutiles. Je vous remercie, Mon-  sieur le Président.
41.1 Le PRESIDENT :  Je remercie M. Van Ussel. Il est maintenant 13 heures et je vais lever la séance.  Nous reprendrons nos travaux à 15 heures. A ce moment, je donnerai d’abord la parole  au représentant du Ghana, puis au représentant d’Israël.
4 1.2 La séance est levée.  The meeting rose at 1 p. m.  La séance est levée à 13 heures.  Se levanta la sesion a las 13.