Forty-fifth plenary meeting
22 November 1974 at 3,25 p.m,  President: Mme JOBORU (Hungary)  Quarante-cinquième séance plénière
22 novembre 1974 à 15 h, 26  Présidente ; Mme JOBORU (Hongrie)  Cuadragesimoquinta sesiôn plenaria
(20431) gpm Tuaadl Ras Ji  VOTE ON THE DRAFT RESOLUTION SUBMITTED BY THE WORKING GROUP  ON PEACE ON ITEMS 12,1 AND 12,6 OF THE AGENDA (18 C/PLEN/DR, 28) (continued)  VOTE SUR LE PROJET DE RESOLUTION PRESENTE PAR LE GROUPE DE TRAVAIL SUR LA  PAIX AU SUJET DES POINTS 12.1 ET 12,6 DE L'ORDRE DU JOUR (18 C/PLEN/DR, 28) (suite)  VOTACION SOBRE EL PROYECTO DE RESOLUCION PRESENTADO POR EL GRUPO DE TRABAJO  SOBRE LA PAZ EN RELACION CON LOS PUNTOS 12,1-Y 12, 6 DEL ORDEN DEL DIA  TONOCOBAHHE NO NPOEKTY PE3OMOIWHWH, NPEACTABIEHHOMY PABOUEÏ I'PYNNofl no  BONPOCAM MHPA NO NNYHKTAM 12.1 H 12.6 HOBECTKH AHS (18 C/PLEN/DR.18)(nposonx.)  Jlas¥l yum Ge 111 3 1101 el oli 06081 dead! Goji oo p SSL 98 Sb capa]  (=F) (YA @/4L/ptA)
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  The meeting is called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now resume the adoption of  the draft resolution in document 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28, We proceed to the last part of the preamble,  starting with paragraph 31: "Recalling resolution 1514 (XV) of the General Assembly... ".
1.2 The delegate of the Philippines has the floor.
2. Mr, CASTRO (Philippines):  Thank you very much, Madam President, If the Conference is to consider the fourth part of  the preambular paragraphs, may I propose an editorial amendment to paragraph 32? In the line  before the last line after "material assistance to national liberation movements", insert the follow-  ing phrase: "offictally recognized by the regional organizations’, This amendnient fs proposed in  order to align this paragraph with the criteria for liberation movements embodied in operative  paragraph 18 (d) of the draft resolution, Thank you, Madam President.
3, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of Yugoslavia has the floor,
4. M. 'JOVANOVIC (Yougoslavie). -  Metèt, Madame la Présidente ; Je voudrais'propèser un petit amendement au considérant 36 :  ajouter, ‘pr b 1es nots "la eultuel", "et de l'information", En effet, ‘alors qu'en trois‘ou quatre  endroits du Préambule les quatre secteurs de l'Unesco sont mentionnés, il n'est question ici que  de trois d'entre eux, Je propose de faire ce mème ajout A la fin du paragraphe 41, Nous savons  en effet qu'il s'agit d'un secteur très important, et qui le devient chaque jour davantage. Merci,  Madame la Présidente,
45 5, The PRESIDENT; , . ;. PEI OSE  Thank you, 1 give the floor to the deleghte ét Indonesia.
6. Mr, PADMODIPOETRO (Indonesia): ; ;  Thank you, Madam President. Our delegation would like to support what has been proposed  by the distinguished (delegate of the Philippines, Thank you, ee  Wt i ! i ‘ 201 ‘
7. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of Peru has the floor,
(8.1) Mr, CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President: We may come up against insoluble technical difficulties, but they will be of second-  ary importance in comparison with the substance of the problem. Preambular paragraph 32 mentions  ". .. the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples and the relevant  resolutions of the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council... " etc. It states that there is  a Declaration on the Granting of Independence. The General Assembly and ihe Economic Council may use  that expression, but { think it is now time to change it, because by doing 60 we may make the situation  clearer,
(8.2) Madam President, my amendment would consist in replacing the word "granting" by the word  "attainment". The expression "granting of independence" used by the General Assembly end the Economic  and Sqcial Council, however technical it may be, ié misleading, The metropolitan countries never granted  independence to the colonies, Never! It was through the struggle of the countries themgelves that indepen-  ‘dence was attained, through the bloodshed of those who took part in that struggle for the freedom of their  peoples,
(8,3) Therefore, Madam President, although hundreds of slatements of the Economic and Social Council  have referred to the Declaration on the Granting of Independence, 1 would request that the wording be  changed and that it -efer clearly to the "altainment of independence by colonial countries and peoples" and  not to the "granting of Independence to colonial countries" which amounts to éontinuihg the colonization In  words of the countries which we are now liberating.
(8.4) Madam President, it is a question of changing the word "granting" to "attalnment". If the Assembly  accepts that, it will be a true statement of the situation of the colonial countries, Thank you, Madam  President.
9. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Any other amendments? The delegate of Canada has the floor.
10. M. GAGNON (Canada). -  J'aimerais, Madame la Présidente, avoir une explication ; A la suite de ce qua vient de dé-  clarer M, le délégué du Pérou, je constate que dans le texte anglais le mot "granting'' est écrit  avec un G majuscule, ce qui semblerait indiquer qu'il s'agit du titre de le résolution adoptée par  l'Organisation des Nations Unies ; dans le texte frahçois, en revanche, toux est écrit avec des  minuscules ; s'll ne s'agit pas d'un titre, le délégué péruvion serait en droit, - je ne pense pas,  naturellement, aux questions de principe - de faire sa proposition, alors qu'il s'agit, comme le  laigae penser fe texte anglais, du titre ofticiel adopté à New York, il n'est pas possible de  l'amender,
11, The PRÉSIDENT:  Thank you, ‘1 givé ‘he floor to the Deputy Director-General,
12, Mr, FOBES (Deputy Director-General):  The delegate of Canada is correct in identifying this Declaration on the Granting of Independ-  ence to Colonial Countries aud Peoples as being the official title of a Declaration adopted by the  United Nations General Assembly, Therefore, if the word granting" is dropped, we will gee to  it that the title is no longer a title of the Declaration adopted by the General Assembly. In that  case, perhaps, the reference loses its meaning, It seems to me, Madam President, that the  alternative is either to retain the exact title which we have in a printed Declaration of the United  Nations, or to change our text to read: "Affirming that a declaration by the General Assembly  relating to the attainment of... ‘’, in other words to depart from the exact title, The Secretary  will make this conform to whatever you decide,
13. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the Deputy Director-General, Any other amendments? The delegate of Peru has the  floor,
(14) Mr. CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President: After the technical explanation given by the Deputy Director- General, 1 should like  to say that in presenting my amendment I began by saying that we realized that, although the Spanish  title was in small letters, this was almost certainly an official title, which could not be changed. Bul we  propose a solution, so as not to alter the title of the Delcaration, which undoubtedly reflects the colonialist  mentality of those who formulated the Declaration and accepted it: to insert between commas, after the  words "the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council", the words "as an achievement of the  countries that have gained their independence", so as to make the situation clear, The amendment would  therefore read as follows: "affirming that the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial  Countries and Peoples and the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and the Economic and Social  Council, as an achievement of the countries that have gained their Independence" , or, if you prefer it,  ‘as an achievement of the countries that have struggled for their independence", "...impose on all the  Specialized Agencies, ete.,... For the Declaration, despite its title, does not reflect the true situation -  whatever it may say, whatever {ts title may be, whether it is written in capital letters or not. Thank  vou Madam President,
15. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Any other amendments? The delegate of the United States of America has the  floor,
16, Mr. WARVARIV (United States of America):  Thank you, Madam President, I have two comments with respect to paragraph 35, which  reaffirms that apartheid Is a crime against humanity, and that it is a threat to world peace.  Madam President, I would like to suggest, in conformity with the United Nations General Assembly  resolution adopted unanimously at the 25th session, to replace ' ‘apartheid is a crime against human-  ity" ‘to read: apartheid is a criminal policy"; and at the end to replace 'a threat to world peace"  by ' 'endangers world peace", This will allow me, Madam President, to vote in favour of this  particular paragraph, Thank you very kindly.
17. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Niger,
18. M. ABDOU (Niger). -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais simplement attirer l'attention de notre Conférence géné-  rale sur le dernier considérant ; il conviendrait, mé sémble-t-il, dé ‘mentionner l'infôrmation et  de dire : "dans les domaines de ‘l'éducation, de la science, de la culture et de l'information", Je  vous remercie,
19, The PRESIDENT:  This was the proposal submitted by the delegate of Yugoslavia, I give the floor to the German  Democratic Republic,
20, Mr, GRUMBACH (German Democratic Republic):  Thank you, Madam President. As to the proposal made by the distinguished delegate of the
45 United States of America, I would refer to the resolution adopted by the 28th session of the General  Assembly of the United Nations and especially to resolution 3068, the specific resolution on the  international convention on the suppression and punishment of the crime of apartheid, In that  resolution, especially in the preambular part, apartheid is characterized as a crime against  humanity, Again in the first Article of this Convention, we have a reference which I quote: "The  States Parties to the present Convention declare that apartheid is a crime against humanity",  That is why I would like to insist on the paragraph as it now stands in 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28, Thank  you, Madam President,
21. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Any other amendments? The delegate of Belgium has the floor,
22.1 M, VAN USSEL (Belgique), -  Madame la Présidente, j'appuie formellement la proposition d'amendement soumise par le  représentant des Etats-Unis d'Amérique. En effet, dans la résolution qui a été adoptée à l'unani-  mité - j'insiste sur le mot "unanimité" - par l'Assemblée générale dés Nations Unies, il est dit:  "Condamnant résolument la politique criminelle d'apartheid du gouvernement de l'Afrique du Sud  et réaffirmant la légitimité de la lutte menée par les peuples opprimés pour voir reconnaître leurs  droits, leurs libertés fondamentales et obtenir l'indépendance ,..",
22,2 Peut-être pourrions-nous ajouter un membre de phrase et dire que nous considérons que  l'apartheid met en danger la paix mondiale. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
23, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The delegate of India has the floor,
24, Mr, DAYAL (India):  Madam President, on this particular point relating to paragraph 35, it has been pointed out  already that the paragraph follows the language in the International Convention for the Suppression  and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid, and as the distinguished delegate from the German  Democratic Republic has explained, it is specifically mentioned in this Convention that apartheid  is a crime against humanity, It was for this reason that in the discussions in the Working Group  this wording was retained in this paragraph. But then in the subsequent p#ragraph we have the  words "criminal policy", which were suggested as an addition, We suggest that these texts be  retained as they stand in 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28,
25, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of Belgium has the floor,
26, M. VAN USSEL (Belgique). -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais simplement attirer votre attention et celle des distingués  membres dé notre Conférence sur le fait que l'amendement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, que j'ap-  puie formellement, peut faire l'unanimité ; nos gouvernements n'ont pas encore êté en mesure  d'approuver la convention dont il a été fait état lors de la discussion du paragraphe 35, Pour le  moment, il ne sera donc pas possible à la délégacion belge de voter en faveur du paragraphe 35  tel qu'il est actuellement formulé. En revanche, nous pouvons tous nous mettre d'accord sur le  projet d'amendement qui est présenté par 1a délégation des Etats-Unis. Merci beaucoup, Madame  la Présidente.
27. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, If there are no more amendments, I shall ask the Secretary to read the amend-  ments one by one.
28. The SECRETARY:  Thank you, Madam President, The first amendment concérns paragraph 32 and it was pro-  posed by Peru, 1 will read it in its tontext, Thé text of paragraph 32 would go as it is until we  come to the words: "of the General Assembly and the Social and Ecorlomic Council”, After that,  you would add the following words: "as an achievément of the countries that have struggled for  their independence", and then go on with "impose on all the Specialized Agenéies..." (the rest is  without change),
29.1 The PRESIDENT:  I put this amendment to the vote,
29.2 The amendment is adopted by 52 votes to one, with 38 abstentions,
30, The SECRETARY:  Madam President, the next amendment concerns the same paragraph 32 where the delegation  of the Philippines proposes to add in the last but one line of the English text after: "material  assistance to national liberation movements'' the words: ''officially recognized by the regional  organizations", and then continue to the end of the paragraph,
31.1 The PRESIDENT:  I put the amendment of the Philippines to the vote,
31,2 The amendment is adopted by 72 votes to one, with 5 abstentions, 43
32, The SECRETARY:  Madam President, the next amendment concerns paragraph 35, where the delegation of the  United States of America proposes two changes. The first in the first line, where the words  "crime against humanity" would be replaced by "criminal policy" and the second at the very end  where the words "a threat to world peace' would be replaced by "endangers world peace", 1 will  read the paragraph as it would read if amended, "Reaffirming that apartheid is a criminal policy,  a violation of international law and of the purposes and principles embodied in the Charter of the  United Nations and endangers world peace",
33.1 The PRESIDENT:  I put to the vote the paragraph, as amended by the United States of America,
23.2 The amendment fs rejected by 48 votes to 32, with 11 abstenticns,
34, Le SECRETAIRE. -  Madame, l'amendement suivant, qui a êt& présenté par la Yougoslavie, concerne le considé-  rant 36 et je crois qu'on pourrait étudier en même temps l'autre amendement de la Yougoslavie,  qui concerne le considérant 41. Ces deux amendements sont en effet identiques, et visent A men-  tionner dans les deux cas l'information après la culture.
35,1 The PRESIDENT:  Are there any objections to those amendments? No objection, I think we have completed  consideration of the preamble, I now put to the Vote the preamble as a whole, as amended,  (A vote was taken by show of hands. )
35,2 The preamble of draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28, as amended, 18 adopted by 76 votes to
6, with 21 abstentions,
35,3 Now we proceed to the operative part of 18 C/PLEN/DR. 28, I will put to the vote this part  of the draft resolution paragraph by paragraph.  Paragraph 1
35,4 The delegate of China has the fioor.
36. M, HU SHA (République populaire de Chine) {Déclaration faite en chinois. Version fran-  çaise établie d'après l'interprétation). -  Madame la Présidente, la délégation chinoise propose de supprimer toute la Section I, parce  que, si elle fait mention du colonialisme, du néo-colonialisme et du racisme, il n'en reste pas  moins que, dans son ensemble, elle présente des points de vue fondamentalement néfastes. Merci,  Madame la Présidente.
37. The PRESIDENT:  Yes, 1 will put this amendment to the vote right away. The delegate of Chile on a point of  order,
(38) Mr, BERGUNO (Chile) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President: | propose that that amendment should not apply to paragraph 7; that is, 1 propose  that Section I should Le deleted in its entirety, as requested by the Chinese Delegation, with the exception  of paragraph 17,
39, Thé PRESIDENT:  Peru, on a point of order.
(40) Mr. CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President: The delegate of China has proposed the deletion of Section I, but what you are about  to put to the vole is only paragraph 1 of that Section, which you stated would be put to the vote paragraph  by paragraph. 1 should like some clarification on the matter,
41,1 The PRESIDENT:  My proposal was to put the operative part to the vote paragraph by paragraph; but now the  delegate of China has moved to delete the whole Section I of the operative part. This is the ariend-  ment furth :st removed from the original text, So I put to the vote the amendment submitted by  China, namely to remove Section I in its entirety.
45 {A vote was taken by show of hands, )
41.2 The amendment is rejected by 43 votes to 3, with 35 abstentions,
41,3 I should like to ask the delegate of Chile whether he maintains his proposal to remove Section I  except paragraph 7?
(42) Mr. BERGUNO (Chile) (Translation from the Spanish):  No Madam President; but on the other hand ! would propose the deletion of paragraphs 5 and 6,
43.1 The PRESIDENT :  The delegate of Chile proposes the suppression of paragraphs 5 and 6. This is noted for  later,
43.2 There are no amendments on paragraph 1. Adopted,  Paragraph 2
43,3 The delegate of Yugoslavia has the floor,
44. M. JOVANOVIC (Yougoslavie). -  Merci, Madame la Présidente, Je propose d'insérer, à la troisième ligne du paragraphe 2  de la Section I, entre les mots "de la paix" et "de 1'accentuation", les mots "de l'élargissement  et ...". Merci, Madame la Présidente.
45, The PRESIDENT:  Any objections? No objections, Adopted. Any other amendments? The delegate of Belgium  has the floor,
46. M. VAN USSEL (Belgique). -  Merci beaucoup, Madame la Présidente. Je propose d'ajouter apres le mot "'néo-colonfa-  lisme" les mots ''de l'oppression et de la tyrannie”. Ce membre de phrase se lirait donc comme  suit : "les formes et manifestations du fascisme, du néo-colonialisme, de l'oppression, de la ty-  rannie, du racisme et de l'apartheid",
47, The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of the United States of America has the floor.
48. Mr, WARVARIV (United States of America):  Madam President, I want merely to support the amendment just tabled by the distinguished  delegate of Belgium, Thank you,
49, The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of the United Kingdom has the floor.
50, Mr, NORWOOD (United Kingdom}:  Thank you, Madam President, The United Kingdom delegation would like to propose the dele-  tion from the last line of paragraph 2 of the words "so as to make this process irreversible",  Thank you, Madam President,
51, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of Peru has the floor,
(52,1) Mr, CIHAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President: As regards paragraph 2, there are countries which, for quite understandable and  weighty reasons, object to the reference to the international relaxation of tension, 1 do not know, Madam  President, if it would be possible to replace the phrase "relax tension at a still deeper level", in the  fourth line, by the phrase "achieve detente",
(52,2) 1 think that the countries which object to the notion of relaxation of international tenslon have rea-  son to believe that such relaxation of tension does not exist; nevertheless, they desire, as we all do, thal  there should be International détente. If we replace the term "relax tension' by the term "achieve détente,  I think that no one could object, We therefore propose the replacement of the words "relax tension at a
81111 deeper level" by the words "achieve détente",
(52.3) The addition of the words "oppression and tyranny" would be highly dangerous, since they would  imply that fascism is not oppression or tyranny; we therefore consider that it would be preferable to alter  the phrase ! 'relax tension at a still deeper level” ‘to "achieve détente", but we are not in favour of adding  the words "oppression and tyranny", which might encourage pgople to think that fascism is not a form of  "oppression and tyranny. Thank you Madam l’resident.
53, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The delegate of Belgium has the floor,
54. M. VAN USSEL (Belgique), -  Madame la Présidente, je m'étonne de la remarque que vient de faire le distingué délégué du  Pérou. J'ai tiré la formulation qu'il met en cause du paragraphe 21 de la Déclaration sur le ren-  forcement de la sécurité et de la paix internationale, déclaration qui a été adoptée À l'unanimité  - autrement dit entre autres par le Pérou - par l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies. Merci  beaucoup, Madame la Présidente.
55. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of the Ukraine.
56. P-u B.A. KPABEI{ (Yxpauncxan Coserckas Couxnanticrnueckan Pecnybnuka):  Braromñapp Bac, Top. Ilpeacenatens. YuYHTbIBAA, YUTO ypaxaemas Aeneralina BenbrHH He BHANA  npocs6e ypaxaeMoro Aenerara Ilepy u He CHHMAET cBoelt MNONpABKH, NO3B0ONND cebe TAKXE BHECTH 110-  npaBKy TaKOro CONepxaHHs, 4 HaAAeNCb, UTO 3TO He HaHAer Bospaxexuñ y nameH KonbepeHuHH, noro-  My UTO sTa PopMyna Hamu yxe 6sina yTBepxAeHa, OHa Hamna OTpaxenxe B npeaMGyne H B Apyrux AO-  KyMenrax Dexepanbtioñ xonbepenunn. Hrax, # npeAnaran nocne cnos "anaprenaa" BCTABHTb CAOBA  "NOpoxAaeMEIX HMIMNEpHAanHaMOM", rorpa 6yaer cneaywouufi Tekcr: "npospnennñ Pamusma, Heohauxa-  Ma, KONOHHA/H3MA, ArpeccHH H THPAHHH, pacH3Ma, anapTeHAa, NOpoxAaeMebIX HMM@pHAarnH3MOM" H  Aanee Kak B Texcre. Bnaroaapw Bac, Ton, MNpeaceñatenb.
(56) Mr, KRAVETS (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic) (Translated from the Russian):  Thank you, Madam President, Seeing that the distinguished delegation of Belgium hus not heeded the  request of the distinguished delegate of Peru and is not withdrawing its amendment, 1 am algo taking the  liberty of introducing an amendment which I hope will not arouse any opposition in our Conference since  these words have already been approved by us and are found in thé preamble and in other documents of the  General Conference, 1 am therefore proposing that after the word! 'apartheld” the words ' "caused by  fmperialism' should be inserted, giving us the following text: “manifestations of fascism, neo-fascism,  colontalism, aggression and tyranny, racism and apartheid, caused by Imperfalism'’ and so on according  to the text, Thank you, Madam President,
57, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Venezuela.
(58) Mr. DE SOLA) (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish):  ‘Thank you, Madam President, I think there would be no incompatibility between the amendments sub-  mitted by the delegates of Belgium and Peru, if one simply added a few words between the two proposals;  if fascism, neo-colonialism, racialism and apartheid are forms of oppression, one could add the words  "and all other forms of oppression and tyranny", thus eliminating the possibility of conflicling concepts.  I formally propose that amendment,
59, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of Peru has the floor,
(60) Mr, CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President, we are glad to say that this time we agree with the Belgian delegation, whose  amendment we are prepared to accept, with the modification suggested by Venezuela. We should very
45 much welcome a reference to fascism and other forms of oppression and tyrar .y caused by imperialism,  We support that version, ’ . :
61, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, If there are no more amendments, I shall ask the Secretary to read out the amend-  ments, one by one.
62, The SECRETARY:  There are a lot of them, Madam President, It is very difficult to see which is the first one  to take. I will try once more to take them in the order of the words in the paragraph, without  trying to distinguish which 18 the most removed from what, The first one, in the order of words,  would be the double amendment by the Ukraine and by Venezuela, There is nothing before then,  and the beginning would remain unchanged, "Declares that Unesco should take a more active part  in the struggle against all forms and manifestations of fascism, neo-colonialiem, racialiem and  apartheid, ,." then after that, the Venezuelun and Ukrainian combined would continue "and all  forms of oppression and tyranny caused by {mperfalism",
63. The PRESIDENT:  Those in favour of this amendment? The delegate of the United States of America on a point  of order.
64. Mr, WARVARIV (United States of America):  A point of order, yes. Thank you, Madam President, I wonder about the order as just read  to us by the Secretary of the Conference; after "neo-colonialism" we have "and all other forms of  oppression and tyranny", This is, I understand, the amendment in which it is proposed that we  should vote first,
65. The PRESIDENT:  Well, it is not quite clear, I give the floor to the delegate of Venezuela,
(66) Mr. DE SOLA (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish):  On a point of order, }adam President, May I point out that the modification proposed by my delega-  tion was confined to the addition, after the word "apartheid", of the phrase "and all other forms of oppres-  sion and tyranny", thus avolding the apparent contradiction between the proposal submitted by Belgium and  seconded by the United States, and that submitted by Peru. I think that this would solve the problem,
67. The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Peru, on a point of order,
(68) Mr. CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish): -  On a point of order, Madam President, I wish to make tw9 observations. ‘Firstly, it was the Belgian  delegation which proposed thé amendment, subsequently modified by the Ukrainian delegation to read as  follows: "oppression and tyranny ¢aused by imperialism", We have to vote on that phrase, further  amended by Venezuela to read "and all other forms of oppression and tyranny". Secondly, we have to  vote first on the text which is furthest from the original, f, e, on the replacement of the words "relax ten-  sion at a still deeper level" by the words “achieve détente”, which is a different notion, since the term  “relax tension at a still deeper level" implies that relaxation of tension already exists, which ts rightly  contested by several countries. On the other hand,” the achievement of détente fs a new concept, an  aspiration of those countries which do not believe that relaxation of international tension exists. The  phrase "manifestations of fascism and all other forms of oppression and tyranny caused by imperialism"  should be put to the vote afterwards, Thank you, Madam President.
69, The PRESIDENT:  There seems to be some misunderstanding between Peru and Belgium, 1 give the floor to the  delegate of Belgium,
70, M. VAN USSEl, (Belgique), -  Merch beaucoup, Madarne la Présidente. Je crois réellement qu'il y a eu un malentendu, Je  tiens donc à répêter l'amendement que je propose, A savoir : ajouter après "néo-colonialisme"  Jes mots "et toutes les autren formes d'oppr:ssion et de tyrannie" ; et je demande que cet amende-  ment, qui a été présenté en premier lieu, soit également voté en premier lieu, Merci beaucoup,  Madame la Présidente.
71.1 The PRESIDENT:  Now the Belgian amendment 18 clear. Any other comments? We will vote on the Belgian  amendment,  (A vote was taften by show of hands).
71.2 The Belgian amendment is adopted by 47 votes to 19, with 24 abstentions.
71.3 The delegate of Algeria has the floor.
72, M. DERRADJI (Algérie). -  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je souhaite donner une explication de vote, Bien que nous  ayons voté contre la proposition belge, je tiens à affirmer que nous n'en désapprouvons pas le  principe, autrement dit que nous ne sommes nullement favorables à l'oppression, Mais il faudrait,  à notre avis, préciser les causes de l'oppression et de la tyrannie, ce qui n'a pas été fait. Merci,  Madame la Présidente.
73, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of Ukraine has the floor,
74. T-n B.A. KPABEII (Ykpauuckas Coserckas Counanucruueckas Pecny6nuka):  Ton. llpeacenatens, A HapewCh, YTO cAeaynmeR BH NOCTaBHTE Ha rONOCOBaHHe nNonpasky YKpa-  HHckoft CCP.
(74) Mr, KRAVETS (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic) {Translation from the Russian):  Madam President, [ hope that you will put the amendment of the Ukralnian SSR to the vote next,
75. The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Peru has the floor,
(76) Mr. CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President: We have voted on the Belgian amendment, modified by Venezuela as follows:  “and all other forms of oppression and tyranny", on the understanding that the phrase "caused by impérial-  sim" is included, However, | request that a vote should now be taken on the phrase “caused by imperialism’,  which defines the exact source of oppression and tyranny, because if that is not included, how are we to  interpret the text? The public are not unaware of things; everyone knows the sources of oppression - and  are we to be silent? No, Madam President, "caused by imperialism" is the next amendment which I must  ask you to put to the vote.
77, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I will put to the vote the joint amendment of Peru and the Ukraine. The delegate  of Venezuela oi a point of order,
(78) Mr, DE SOLO (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish):  On a point of order, Madam President: I should like clarification as to whether the Belgian amendment,  as adopted, included the words ‘and all other forms", If so, there ia no need to vote on the Venezuelan  amendment; but if that phrase was not included, I should request that my delegation's amendment be put  to the vote also, I should like clarification on this point.
79. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Venezuela and I give the floor to the Secretary,
80, Le SECRETAIRE :  L'amendement qui a été adopté, consiste à ajouter après le mot ""'néocolonialisme' les mots  ‘et toutes les autres formes d'oppression et de tyrannie",
45 81, The PRESIDENT:  Now I put to the vote the joint amendment of Peru and the Ukraine.  (A vote was taken by show of hands, )
81,2 The amendment is adopted by 30 votes to 18, with 29 abstentions,
82, The SECRETARY:  There is now an amendment by the United Kingdom, Madam President, which is to suppress  the last words of the paragraph reading "so as to make this process irreversitle",
83,1 The PRESIDENT:  We will vote on the United Kingdom amendment,  (A vote was taken by show of hands, )
83.2 The amendment is rejected by 39 votes to 14, with 31 abstentions.
83,3 I ask the Secretary to read paragraph 2 in its new form,
84, The SECRETARY:  Madam President, paragraph 2 now reads: "Declares that Unesco should take a more active  part in the struggle against all forms and manifestations of fascism, neo-colonialism and all other  forms of oppression and tyranny, raclalism and apartheid caused by imperialism, and should inten-  sify its action to preserve peace, attain détente at a still deeper level and strengthen international  understanding, so as to make this process irreversible, "
85, The PRESIDENT:  I put paragraph 2 to the vote as amended. Peru, on a point of order,
(86) Mr, CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish): .  Madam President: It 18 only out of a sense of fairness that I make this statement; I regret to have to  take the floor, but my delegation's proposal to replace the phrase "relax tension at a still deeper level" by  “achieve détente", which the Secretary was kind enough to take as approved, has not yet been put to the  vote, It fs our amendment, and we are glad that it has already been taken as approved, but in fact it has  never been put to the vote.
87,1 The PRESIDENT:  I put the amendment of Peru to the vote.  (A vote was taken by show of hands).
87,2 The amendment is adopted by 20 votes to 3, with 32 abstentions,
87,3 Now I put to the vote paragraph 2 as a whole, as amended.  {A vote was taken by show of hands),
87.4 Paragraph 2, as amended, is adopted by 71 votes to 3, with 15 abstentions,  Paragraph 3
87.5 Are there any objections to this paragraph? No, Adopted,  Paragraph 4
87.6 Are there any objections to this paragraph? No, Adopted.  Paragraph 5(a)
87.7 The delegate of Peru has the floor,
(88) Mr, CHIAPPO (Peru (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President: In line with the amendment adopted for paragraph 2, we request that the wordy  “relax tension at a still deeper level" should be replaced by "achieve détente". Thank you.
89.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Any other amendments? No. I put to the vote the amendment of Peru, Adopted,
89,2 Now I put to the vote paragraph 5(a) as a whole.  (A vote was taken by show of hands. )
89,3 Paragraph 6(a) is adopted.  Paragraph 5(b)
89,4 Any amendments on paragraph 5(b)? Adopted,  Paragraph 6(a)
89.5 The delegate of Guinea has the floor,
90, M. CAMARA (Guinée). -  Madame la Présidente, nous aimerions proposer la suppression de toute la fin du paragraphe
6 (a), à partir des mots "notamment son concours à la Conférence’; le paragraphe se terminerait  ainsi per "dans les différentes régions du monde".
91, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, We are discussing sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 6. I give the floor to the dele-  gate of Switzerland,
92. M. HUMMEL (Suisse). -  Madame la Présidente, j'appuie la proposition de la Guinée.
93, The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Peru has the floor,
(94) Mr. CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish): ‘  Madam President: We propose the following amendments: in sub-paragraph 6(a), In place of the  phrase "maintenance of peace"! - which does not exist, and therefore cannot be maintained - tô introduce  the concept of "development of peace", which was referred to so appropriatély by the representative of  the Holy See, Secondly, we propose that the phrase "broadening and furthering of détente in different  parts of the world" be replaced by the phrase ' ‘achievement of détente in different parts of the world",  Thirdly, we propose that the phrase "to consolidate peace" in the second last line be replaced by the words  "to strengthen peace", an Idea embodied in the conclusions of the general policy debate in plenary. Thos2  are the three amendments which we propose, Thank you,
95, The PRESIDENT: ,  Thank you, Any other amendments? The delegate of Venezuela has the floor.
(96) Mr, DE SOLA (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Madam President, Asa result of an amendment approved this morning, 1 should ke to  request the insertion In sub-paragraph 6 (a) after the words "'., . Conference on Seéurity and Co-operation  in Europe", of the phrase "and others of the same kind", so that the text will be in line with those previously  adopted. Thank you.
97. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Any other amendment? The delegate of Niger has the floor.
98. M. ABDOU (Niger), -  Madame la Présidente, j'approuve les remarques de l'honorable délégué du Pérou. Je souhal-
45 terais, comme l'honorable délégué de la Guinée, que l'on supprime au paragraphe 6 (a) les mots  "notamment son concours à la Conférence sur la sécurité et la coopération en Europe'', mais je  voudrais que l'on maintienne la fin de la phrase ("ainsi que des mesures ... etc,). Merci, Madame  la Présidente,
99. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Any other amendments? No, I ask the Secretary to read the amendments one by  one,
100. Le SECRETAIRE, -  Madame la Présidente, l'amendement qui est le plus éloigné de l'original me semble être  celui du délégué de la Guinée, appuyé par d'autres déléguês ; ; il s'agirait de supprimer la déu-  xième moitié du paragraphe 6 (a), depuis les mots : "notamment son concours ...".
101, The PRESIDENT:  I give the floor to the delegate of Switzerland.
102. M, HUMMEL (Suisse). -  Merci, Madame la Présidente. J'ai appuyé l'amendement proposé par la Guinée mais je ne  puis accepter le sous-amendement du Niger, ,
103, M, CAMARA (Guinée), -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais dire que j'accepte le sous-amendement proposé par le  Niger.
104,1 The PRESIDENT:  I must point to the delegate of Guinea that the delegate of Switzerland has associated himself  with his original proposal.
104, 2 The delegate of the Soviet Union has the floor,
105.1 P-x JI.H. KYTAKOB (Coms Coserckux Counanscruueckix Pecnybaunk):  Bnavoaapp Bac, vob. IlIpeacexarens. Topapum Ilpeacenarens, Mb! YTPOM CEFOAHA, KOTAa MpH-  HHMAN#H npeambyny, TO NpHHANnu POPMYNHPOBKH, B KOTOPHX FOBOPHTCA 06 yuactuu MHECKO 5 Mepo-  NpHATHAX 10 YKpenneHHD GeaonacHOCTH BO BCeM MHpe, à TakXe BEpAXANTCA NMOXENAHHA ycnexos O6-  meesponefickoMy COBeMAHHH MO 6e30NaCHOCTH H COTPYAHHYECTBY .
105.2 Hapo xe GbITb NOFHYHBIM: ecnH Mb roBOpHM 06 3YOM -B npeambyne, TO H B nocraHOBARDOmMeR  YACTH MH AONXHE NOPYUHTs ["eHepansHOMY AHPEKTOPY OCcymetTBAATH Te MapH, KOTOphe CHOCOÉCTBY-  DT ycnexy aroro Cosematua. B npomnoM, A yxe ynomuxan, l'exnepareHsñ AHPEKTOP NPHHHMAanN yvac-  THe B ObmeenponefickoM CORGMAHHH, I'Ae BHICTYNAn no BONPOCY © poONH H sknage WHECKO p passurHe  o6meerporeHckoro corpyaHHuecrsa. MHe AyMaercs, 4ro H cefivac B nyuxre "a" MoxHo 6s1n0 Gu, KO-  HeuHO, CKA3aTb O MEponpHATHAXx no pKnañy IOHECKO B o6nactax ee xoMneTreHUHH B Zeno YKpennenHa  MHpa H 6e30NacHOCTH BO BCeM MHpe, HO HE HCKNDYATL eBponefickoe COREMAHHE, CNEAYA NOTHKe H  TOMY, YTO Mb yxe OROÔpHAH. IlO2TOMY #4 AyMam, YTO C TAKHMH MNONPABKAMH MOXHO Gtino 651 COXpa-  HHTB 3TOT NYHKT, He HCKADYAN MOCN€AHDD YacTh, Kak 310 npeanaraet peñuapHa. Bnaroaapo Bac.  {105.1) Mr, KUTAKOV (Unton of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, when we were considering the preamble this morn-  ing, we adopted a form of words |n which it speaks about Unesco's participation in measures to strengthen  security throughout the world, and in which wishes are also expressed for the success of the Conference  on Security and Co-operation in Europe.
(105, 2) We must be logical, If we speak of these things in the preamble, we have to empower thé Director-  General, in the operatiye part, te #)ke those steps which will facilitate the success of this Conference, As  I have already recalled, the Direcisr-General has taken part in the European Conference where he has  spoken about Unesco's rôle and contribution in the development of all-European co-operation, I think that  -here too, in sub-paragraph (a), it would of course be possible to speak about measures concerning Unesco's  contribution, within its fields of competence, to the task of strengthening peace and security threughout the  world, but not omitting mention of the European Comference, in accordance with logic and i accordance  with what we have already approved, | therefore think that with these amendments, it would be possible  to keep this paragraph, not deleting the final part as Switzerland proposes, Thank you.
106, The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Dahomey has the floor.
107,1 M. BOISSIER - PALUN (Dahomey). -  Madame la Présidente, je suis prêt, en ce qui me contèrre, à considérer différents amende-  ments, ‘mais je ne comprends pas. ‘trés bien comment les déléguës de la Suisse et de la Guinée ont  pu se rallier au sous- -amendement proposé par notre collègue du Niger. Ou bien on conserve la  référence à la Conférence sur la sécurité et la cooptration en Europe et on peut parler des me-  sures à prendre dans d'autres continents ; ou bien on ne parle pas de l'Europe et la fin de la phrase  devient alors incompréhensible, ou tout au moins illogique.
107.2 Je propose, ou bien qu'on en revienne à la première formule de notre collègue de Guinée,  ou bien que, comme le propose le délégué de l'Union soviétique, on adopte une formule'analogue  à celle qui a été utilisée ce matin, en mentionnant l'Europe à titre d'exemple et en parlant ensuite
500   des conférences de même nature susceptibles d'être organisées dans les autres régions du monde,  Merci, Madame la Présidente,
108, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Norway,
109, Mr, GARBO (Norway): - ‘  I thank you, Madam President, Iam not sure that the representative of the Soviet Urdon ia  quite correct in what he stated just now. We have certainly in the preambular paragraphs stated  that it might be a task of Unesco to take part in those decisions and recommendations of the Con-  ference on Security and Co-operation in Europe which are related to Unesco's fields of competence,  And my delegation will certainly be in favour of active Unesco participation in the follow-up of the  European conference when this Conference asks Unesco to do so, But, Madam President, in this  operative paragraph there is talk about asking the Director-General to assist in carrying through,  and I repeat, assist in carrying through the Conferénce on Security and Co-operation in Europe,  And this Conference has certainly not asked for Unesco assistance in carrying through its work,
110, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor on a point of order, to the delegate of Peru,
(111,1) Mr, CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  On a point of order, Madam Chairman, This is reopening the debate, We had agreed to accept the  submission of amendments and the explanation of the amendments submitted. There is a perfectly clear  amendment submitted by Venezuela which should be put to the vote,
(111.2) The delegate of the Soviet Union was right. We should see that there is consistency with the  preamble and maintain the reference to the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Furope, but also  refer to other similar conferences, as proposed by the delegate of Venezuela.
112, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Niger,
113. M. ABDOU (Niger). - :  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais préciser ma pensée, Voici le texte amendé que je propose  pour l'alinéa 6 (a) : "... des mesures relatives à la contribution de l'Unesco, dans les domaines  de sa compétence, au renforcement de la paix et à l'élargissement et la promotion de là détente  dens les différentes parties du monde, ainsi que des mesures autorisant là sécurité et 1a coopéra-  tion dans tous les autres continènts"', :
114, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of the United States of America,
115, Mr, WARVARIV (United States of America):  Thank you, Madam President, This is merely to support the amendment submitted by Niger,  and, in order to improve the last two lines and to make them logical, I sugget deleting the refer-  ence to "other" before "continents": as we are not referring to Europe any mire, we do not need  to say "other" continents, This part of the paragraph would thus read: "... détente in different  parts of the world, together with other measures to consolidate peace, security and co-operation  in all continents", Th'~k you, Madam President, : /
116, The-PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Belgium,
117. M. VAN'USSEL (Belgique), - 1  ‘Jè voudrats faire remarquer que les obsérvations que le délégué de 14 Nôrvège a faites ne  visent pas à susciter un débat, mais simplement à attirer l'attention sur le fait que l'on risquerait,  avec le texte original, d'arriver à un non-sens, étant donné qu'il est certain que la Conférence sur  la sécurité et la coopération en Europe ne fera pas appel au concours de l'Uneséo pour mener ses  négociations, Merci, Madame la Présidente. ‘ ’
118, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of France has the floor,
119. M,'BATAULT (France). -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais m'assôcier entièrement à cé qui a été dit par le délégué  de la Norvège. Je vous remercie, Madame la Présidente,
4s 120, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, We have to wait for details of the amendment submitted by Niger.
121, Le SECRETAIRE, -  La proposition de base de la délégation du Niger, qui a été appuyée par plusieurs délégués,  est que le paragraphe 6 (a) soit modifié de façon à se lire comme suit ; ‘des mesures relatives à  la contribution de l'Unesco, dans les domaines de sa compétence, au renforcement de la paix et  à l'élargissement et la promotion de la détente dans les différentes parties du monde, ainsi que  des mesures favorisant la sécurité et la coopération dans tous les autres continents",
122, The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Canada has the floor,
123, M, GAGNON (Canada). -  Madame la Présidente, je m'excuse, je ne pense pas que l'on puisse arriver - si l'emende-  ment du Niger est accepté - à conetruire une phrase correcte et équilibrée. On voit mal, en par-  ticulier, quelle différence il peut y avoir entres des "régions" et des "continents".
124, The PRESIDENT:  I give the floor to the delegate of Dahomey.
125. M. BOISSIER-PALUN (Dahomey), -  Je vous remercie, Madame la Présidente. Je voulais dire exactement la même chose,
126, The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of the United States of America has the floor.
127. Mr, JONES (United States of America):  Madam President, the point has been covered, Thank you, Madam President.
128, The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Lebanon has the floor.
129, M, STETIE (Liban).  Madame la Présidente, je me demande vraiment si nous ne pourrions pas trouver le moyen  d'aller un peu plus vite : au rythme où vont nos travaux, nous allons parvenir, non pas À la paix,  au sens ordinaire du terme, mais à la paix définitive du tombeau.
130.1 The PRESIDENT: ; .  I hope that was not an appeal to me, but to your fellow delegates,
130, 2 I ask the Secretary to read the text again,
131. Le SECRETAIRE. - ;  Je Us : "... Des mesures relatives à la contribution de l'Unesco, dans les domaines de sa  compétence, au renforcement de la paix et à l'élargissement et la promotion de la détente dans  les différentes parties du monde ainsi que des mesures favorisant la sécurité et la coopération  dans tous les autres continents.”
132, The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of the Soviet Union has the floor,
133. T-n A. H. KYTAKOB (Cons Cosercxux Côumanuctuuecxux PecnySaunk):  Bnaroñapp Bac, Ton, Ilpeacenarens. 51 xoren 6x o6parTHTh BHHMAHHE HA TO, YTO B pedynbrate  BCEX 3THX MONPABOK, KOTOpHEe Gund caenann cefivac H GsinH 3aynrain Cexpetapem, B PYCCKOM TeKC-  Te nonyyaercs GeccHICHEHHOËÈTE, MH rosopuM: "yxpenneHus MHPA, PacmHPeHHA K YCHNCHHN paspaa-  XH HÉNpHXEHHOCTH B'PA3MHUHMX pañoHax Mupa, 8 Takxe, B 4YACTHOCTH, coaefcrexne JOHECKO, a rax-  Xe MEponpHATHA, cnocoGcTBY DIME YXpenneHHD MHpa, 6e30nacHOCTH H COTPYAHHYECTBA Ha BCeX Apy-  rux KOHTHHeHTax". Ho nocxonbky Eppona punañaer, nonyvaercsa NONHOCTbD GeCCMNCHEHHHÉ TEXCT.
5 eme pas 0o6paman pHHMaHHe BCeX AeneratoB, Yo 0 npeam6yne MH AOFOBOpHNHCb, Npeambyna npu-  HaTa, H B Hell ynomntaercn Obmeenponefickoe cobemanxe. Henb3H HCKNDYATL CAOBA © CORCÂCTBUR  IOHECKO » nposexeHut COBeMAHHA no 6e3onacHOCTH K COTpyAHHYCCTBYy B Eppone. Hx Heo6xoaumo  OCTABITb, HHAXI NONYYAETCH ÉOCCMBICNEHHLA TOKCT, H npomy Ha 310 OÉPATHTL BHHMaAHHe, EBnarona-  p» Bac.
(133} Mr, KUTAKOV {Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the Russian);  ‘Thank you, Madam President, I should like to draw attention to the fact that as a result of all these  amendments which have now been made and which were read out by the Secretary, we now have a Russian  text which is nonsensical. We have "the strengthening of peace, the broadening and furthering of détente  in different parts of the world, and also, in particular, Unesco's assistance and also measures to consoli-  date peace, security and co-operation in all other continents", But since Europe is left out, we have a  completely nonsensical text, I once more draw the attention of all delegates to the fact that we have  agreed on the preamble, The preamble has been adopted, and mention made in it of the European Confer-  ence, We cannot now omit the words concerning Unesco's contribution to the conducting of the Conference  on Security and Co-operation In 'urope, These must be left in otherwise we get a nonsensical text, I beg  you to give your attention to this, Thank you.
134, The PRESIDENT: 45  I am afraid it is the same in other languages, I give the floor to the delegate of the United  States of America,
135, Mr, WARVARIV (United States of America):  Thank you Madam President, Madam President, several timee we have tried to call to your  attention the need for deleting the word "other", and I am puzzled why we are still referring to  this word, It would read, "measures related to Unesco's: contribution in the fields of its compe-  tence to the maintenance of peace and security and the broadening of and furthering of détente in  diffeent parts of the world, together with measures to consolidate peace, security and cc-operation  in all continents", Thank you,
136, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Canada,
137, M, GAGNON (Canada). -  Madame la Présidente, notre collègue soviétique a exprimé en russe ce que je voulais dire  en français.
138, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Niger.
139. M. ABDOU (Niger), -  Je suis d'accord avec ce que viennent de dire les délégués qui ont parlé en dernier lieu, Ayant  dû rédiger mon texte à brûle-pourpoint, j'y ai introduit des mots qui peuvent effectivement prêter  à confusion ou peuvent être considérés comme se contredisant. Je vous remercie.
140, The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Dahomey has the floor,
141, M, BOISSIER -PALUN (Dahomey), -  Madame la Présidente, je vals suggérer une solution qui pourrait peut-être donner satisfac-  tion à tout le monde, Cette solution consisterait à laisser tel quel le début du texte proposé par  M, le délégué du Niger, jusqu'au mot "détente" ; on continuerait ensuite par les mots suivants :  "ainsi que des mesures favorisant la sécurité et la coopération dans les différentes régions du  monde .
142. Le SECRETAIRE. -  Le nouveau texte du paragraphe 6 (a) se lirait alors, si j'ai bien compris, comme suit : "des  mesures relatives à la contribution de l'Unesco, dans les domaines de sa compêtence, au renforce-  ment de la paix et à l'élargissement et la promotion de la détente ainsi que des mesures favorisant  la sécurité et la coopération dans tous les continents",
143, Thé FRESIDENT:  The delegate of Norway has the floor.
144. M. GARBO (Norvège). -  Je suis d'accord.
145, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The delegate of Peru has the floor,
(146) Mr, CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President: I wish to stress once again that this is a debate and not an examination of amend-  ments or anything of the kind, There {s a perfectly clear amendmerit submitted by the delegation of  Venezuela which summarizes all that has been said In the discussion, To refer to continents is incorrect,  because there Is also the sea, that most important element, which i8 exessively and unwisely exploited, a  situation that produces all the problems with which we are familiar, The Venezuelan amendment is valid  and should be put to the vote, Thank you,
147, The PRESIDENT:  You know, the amendment just read by the Secretary is further removed from the original  text than the amendment of Venezuela, Consequently, I have to put to the vote this amendment first.  I shall ask the Secretary to read the text again,
148, Le SECRETAIRE. -  “Des mesures relatives à la contribution de l'Unesco dans les domaines de sa compétence au  renforcement de la paix et à l'élargissement et la promotion de la détente, ainsi que des mesures  favorisant la sécurité et la coopération dans tous les continents",
1 put the amendment to the vote,
149,2 The amendment is adopted by 50 votes to 6, with 14 abstentions,
149, 3 Can I take it that there is no other amendment on sub-paragraph (a)?
149,4 ‘Sub-paragraphs to) and (c): any objections to these dub-paragraphs? The delégate of the  Netherlands has the’ floor,
160, Mrs, KLOMPE (Netherlands):  Madam President, I remember that we were informed on behalf of the Director- General in the  Working Group that in (b) the "systematic' and in (c) the "series of conferences" could create  difficulties for the Secretariat, So I wonder whether in a spirit of co-operation we ¢ould delete  the words "systematic" and "series" in these sub-paragraphs, Thank you,
151, The PRESIDENT:  We are discussing now sub-paragraphs (b) and (ce) of paragraph 6. The delegate of the Soviet  Union has the floor.
152. T'-u JI.H. KYTAKOB (Cowa ConerckHx CouxanxcrHueckHx Pecny6mik):  Bnaroaap» sac, ros. IlpenceRarenb. 51 xoTen Gr OÉPATHTL BHHMAHHE Ha TO, 4rO xorga Ha Pa-  GoueÂ rpynne paccMarpHBarHCb BONPOCH O NPOBEAGHHH 3THX MEP, CBA3AHHMX C YKpenleHHeu 6e30-  HACHOCTH, TO NpeAcTasurent l'exepanbHOro AHPEKTOpPa CKa3al HAM, UTQ HX NPOREMEHHE He BLI3UBET
3aTpyAHeHHÂ H He Norpe6yer KaKHX-AH6O RONONHHT@NEHbIX ACCHFHOBAHHÉ. Bce Gynñer npoBeAeHo B  paMKax Tex aCcHrHOB8aHHH, KOTOp»Ee yYTBEPpXAeHb B 6oaxere. Braroxapp Bac.
(152) Mr. KUTAKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) (Tranelation from the Russian):  Thank you, Madam President. I should like to draw your attention to the fact that when the carrying  out of these measures connected with the strengthening of security was being discussed in the Working  group, the Director-General's representative told us that ca*rying them out would not cause any difficul-  ties and would not require any extra funds, Everything would be carried out within the framework of the  furde approved in the budget. Thank you.
153,1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, In the absence of other amendments, I put to the vote the amendment of the  Netherlands.
153.2 The amendment is adopted by 38 votes to 11, with 17 abstentions.
153,3 I now put to the vote sub-paragraphs (b) and (c}, as amended,
153,4 Sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) as amended, are adopted by 75 votes to none, with one abstention,
153.5 Inthe absence of any amendments to sub-paragraph (d), it te approved.
153, 6 Sub-paragraph (e), ‘The delegate of Guinea has the floor.
154, M, CAMARA (Guinée), -  Je voudrais que l'on modifie le sous-paragraphe (6) en'ajoutant, après "l'importance de la  détente internationale’), les mots "fondée sur l'indépendance nationale, l'égalité entre les nations,  la liberté et la justice", le reste du paragraphe demeurant inchangé.
155.1 The PRESIDENT ©  In the absence of objection I consider the amendment of Guinea agreed,
155.2 As there are no further amendments, I shall now put to the vote sub-paragraph (e); as  amended.
155.3 Sub-paragraph (e), as amended, 1s adopted by 67 votes to none, with 12 abstentions,
155.4 Sub-paragraph (f), As there are no objections, it is adopted.  Paragraph 7
155.5 Are there any amendments to paragraph ” The delegate of Dahomey has the floor.
156. ‘M, BOISSIER - PALUN (Dahomey). =.  Madame la Présidente, le paragraphe 7 contient un certain nombre d'idées que j'approuve  entièrement, meïs sa rédaction ne me paraft ni suffisamment claire ni suffisamment explicite pour  ceux qui, comme moi, ont participé à la rédaction du projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 18.  C'est pourquoi jé vôudrats suggérer, sans rien changer à la éubstance de ce’paragraphe 7, d'en  modifier le 1ibellé comme suit : "’Déclare qu'une véritable coopération internationale exige, con-  formément aux principes fondamentaux définis dans la Charte des Nations Unies, dans l'Acte cons-
504   titutif de l'Unesco ainsi que dans là Déclaration des droits de- l'homme ::(a) l'égalité de droit'des = 45  peuples et de leurs droits à disposer d'eux-mémes, ce qui implique le principe de hon-interyention  dans les affaires relevant essentiellement de la juridiction initérieure d'un Etat ; (b) la reconnais -  sance et le respect absolus de la dignité de la personne humaine ainsi que l'égalité entre les hom-  mes ; (c) le respect de l'identité propre et des aspirations culturelles de chaque peuple ; (d) une  prise de conscience de l'interdépendance croissante entre les pays et la nécessité d'line répartition  plus équitable des richesses du monde ; (e) la nécessité prioritaire de tout mettre en oeuvre pour  remédier à l'injustice dont sont victimes les pays, les groupes et les personnes les plus défavori-
86s", Je suggère que ce texte devierine le nôuveau paragraphe 7, Merci, Madariie la Présidente,
157, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of the Netherlands has the floor,
158, Mrs, KLOMPE (The Netherlands): | ; ;  Madam President, I would like to support wholeheartedly the proposal of the honourable dele-  gate of Dahomey,
159. The PRESIDENT: -‘  I call on the delegate of Peru,
(160, 1) Mr. CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam’ Presidsént: Paragraph 7 Ie fine, marvellous, really moving, bul unless some fundamental  points which we humbly submit to our distinguished colleaguee for consideration are included, it will be a  delusion. It states that international co-operation necessitates respect for certain principles; that is all  very well, but the principle of the equal rights of nations, for example, cannoli be applied unless there is  reciprocity. The principle of the equality of States is the same; it is lyrical but ironic, it is ridiculous,  unless it is put Into practice in specific conditions. We therefore propose that both elements should be  linked: "The principle of the equality of States, the effective application of which depends on the establish-  ment of a new international economic order", This first amendment should be inserted after the word  States",
(160,2) With regard to the sècond part of paragraph 7, I am surprised to see yet another reference to the  need "to pay special attention to the most disadvantaged countries”, This, Madam President, expresses a  mental, cultural, political and economic attitude. It means that we poor countries will have the great  privilege of having special attention paid to us: but ~Wention has been paid to us for 450 years by imperial-  ist and colonial powers. If only they had paid nc atteation to us we would be in a better position now,
(160, 3) We therefore request that the : “rasé In question, which is erroneous, ridiculous and offensive,  be replaced by the words "for establishing a just relationship with the underdeveloped countries. We  submit those two amendments to the General Conference for consideration, Thank you.
161. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The delégate of Togo has the floor.
162.1 M, AGBLEMAGNON (Togo). - - ’  Madame la Présidente, le paragraphe 7 tel qu'il figure dans le projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/  DR. 28 laisse évidemment A désirer. Je n'en fais nullement reproche aux rédacteurs; qui étaient  pressés par le temps, mais je constate que ce paragraphe regroupt ‘effedtivement plusieurs-idées  différentes, qui y figurent dans une promiscuité intellectuelle genante, C'est pourquoi je pense,  comme le représentant du Dahomey, qu'il faudrait parvenir à uné rédaction plus héureuse.
162.2 La formulation qûe vient de suggérer le représentant du Pérou traduit; bién sûr, un effort  important pour rationaliser ce qui ge trouve dans lé paragraphe” ; jè péhéé que chaque délégué
45 pourrait faire un effort analogue et je souhaite que l'on trouve très rapidement, en a'inapirant de  - la suggestion du représentant du Dahomey, une formulation de caractère souple permettant de  mettre en relief un certain nombre d'idées fondamentales. Merci, Madame la Présidente,
163, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of Egypt has the floor.
164, M. EL-WAKIL (Egypte). -  Madame la Présidente, je soutiens l'amendement proposé par le délégué du Dahomey parce  qu'il rend le texte plus clair et plus harmonieux, Merci,
165. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Belgium,
166.1 M, VAN USSEL (Belgique). -  Madame la Présidente, nous sommes fci en présence d'un paragraphe éxtrémement important,  où l'on cite notamment la Charte des Nations Unies, l'Acte constitutif de l'Unesco et la Déclaration  universelle des droits de l'homme. Je voudrais dès lors qu'on respecte scrupuleusement ces textes  extrêmement importants, sur lesquels est fondée la coopération internationale, C'est pourquoi je  propose que l'on ajoute, après "le principe de l'égalité souveraine des Etats", les mots ""conformé-  ment à l'Article II de la Charte des Nations Unies".
166,2 Madame la Présidente, j'éprouve quelque difficulté en ce qui concerne "le principe de non-  intervention". En fait, l'Article II, paragraphe 7, de la Charte indique que les Nations Unies ne  peuvent pas intervenir dans les affaires intérieures des Etats, et c'est pour cette raison que  l'Assemblée générale a, A plusieurs reprises, souligné qu'il était de von devoir de ne pas inter-  venir dans les affaires relevant de la compétence nationale d'un Etat.
166.3 Enfin, Madame la Présidente, je voudrais voir ajouter à la fin du premier alinéa de ce para-  graphe, après "de sexe, de langue ou de religion", quelques mots destinés à rappeler un autre prin-  cipe important qui se trouve inscrit dans la Charte des Ne.tions Unies, A savoir qu'il importe : "que  les Etats remplissent de bonne foi les obligations qu'ils ont assumées conformément à la Charte"  Merci, Madame la Présidente.
167, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Turkey.
168.1 M, TUNCEL (Turquie). - |  J'aimerais voter en faveur de la modification proposée par le représentant du Dahomey, parce  qu'elle me paraît améliorer considérablement la rédaction d'un paragraphe qui est véritablement  d'importance capitale du point de vue du contenu, mais qui est mal rédigé, comme l'est d'ailleurs  tout l'ensemble de ce projet de résolution. Mais il serait souhaitable que le texte du représentant  du Dahomey nous soit soumis par écrit, tout au moins, que M. le Secrétaire veuille bien nous le  lire lentement.
168.2 Cela dit, je voudrais soulever encore un petit point d'ordre rédactionnel ; il est question  dans ce paragraphe de "la Déclaration des droits de l'homme" ; c'est plus exactement "la Décla-  ration universelle des droits de l'hommé" qu'il faut dire, puisque nous sommes dans une institu-  tion spécialisée des Nations Unies.
169, The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Senegal has the floor,
170. M, DIENE (Sénégal). -  Madame la Présidente, ma délégation appuie la modification proposée par le représentant du  Dahomey pour le paragraphe 7, mais elle propose également, pour enrichir ce texte, de remplacer  le dernier sous-paragraphe (e) figurant das le nouveau texte par celui qu'a proposé le représen-  tant du Pérou,
171. The PRESIDENT:  I give the floor to the delegate of the Ukraine.
172.1 I'-u B.A. KPABEÏL (Ykpanwoxax Cosercxas COUHANHCTHYECKER Pecny6n4xa}:  Bnarognapp Bac, Top. Ipeaceñatenb. 51 Gooch, YTO y MEHA Te Xe JATPYAHOHHA, UTO H ÿ ybaXa-  eMbIx Aeneraros Typuuu. O6pature BHHMaHHe HA 0636M NyHKTa 7 - OH OUueHb GonsmoR, B ro Xe Bpe-  MA, ypaxaeMas Aeneralxa Jlaromen, - 2, KOHeuHO, Xe He COMHEBANCb B caMHX AOÔPsX NOGyXACHH-  AX, KOTOPHMH PyKOBOACTBYeTCA yBAXAEMbI generar MaromeH, - npeAnaraer HaM MO cyijecray HO-  BLA TeKCT NYHKTA 7. BOCNPHHATL HA CAYX, MPH YC/NOBHH, YTO MH YXE OCHOBATEABHO YCTANH, H paso-  GparbcR, AeÂcTBHTENbHO NH MpeANoXeHHe Aenerara Jaromèn OTBEYAET HHTOPECAM BCOX H TOMY, YTO  MBI XOTPAH Gb HMETH B ABHHOM NYHKT@, TPYAHO.
172.2 51 HONHTHBAN I8TPYAHEHKE B 3TOM CMBICHO EME H NOTOMY, YTO KAXETCH, OCHOBHME HASH, KO-  TOPHIMH pyKOBOACTBYErCA Aenerar JlaroMeH, HAN/NH OTpaXeHHE B HbIHÈMHEM nyHKTe 7, xoropuft pe-  KOMEHAY@TCH Ham PaGoyel rpynnoH. EcTb cComnKka Ha Ycras Opraxnaauxx O6»eannennex Haunt, Ha  Ycran nameñ Oprahxwaayxnn, Ha Bceo6myM Aexnapauxo Npap YenoBexa, FOBOPHICH O CynepeHHOM pa-
506   BOHCTBE NPAB HAPOXOB H FOCYAAPCTB, NOAYEPKHBAETCA NPHHLUHN HEBMOMATENLOTRA B AONA, KOTOPHE  OTHOCATCA K BHYTpeHHeR DpHCAUKUHH FOCYAAPCTB, TOBOPHTOA 06 yBaXeHHH NPAB YONOBOKA H OCHOBHEIX  CBOÔOA, H@3ABHCHHO OT pack, MONA, #H3bKA H PperHFHH, - KOpOYe FOBOPA, CONEPKATCA OCHOBHBE  HAOH, KOYOPHIE ME XOT@NH Gil BHAOTb B 3TOM NYHKTO. 51 GoMCE, 4yro, ECNH Mu GYAOM HOKATb HOBYD  ŒopMyrnHpoBky 3THX Xe MHONO6Â, Ml ©6 He NOAYYHM, TIOTOMY YTO NEPOA HAMH HOT MHCBMEOHHOTO TOKC-  Ta nonpaexH. Bor noyemy A npocHn 61 ysaxaemym Aenerauun JIaroMeH CONNACHTBCH C TOKOTOM  nyHkTa 7, xaK OH poKoMeHAyercR Pabouel rpynnoñ. Met 6H NPOrONOCOBANH No STOMY NYHKTY H NOMAH
611 lanbwe, SaKOHYHNH Gil Hamy paboTy CeroAHR H He MEpeHOCHAH 6b1 Hawe SaCeñaHHe Ha daBrpamHuA  neHs, Bnaroaapw Bac, Ton. Mpeacoñatenb,
(172,1) Mr, KRAVETS (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Madam President, ! am afraid I have the same difficulties as the distinguished delegates  of Turkey. Look at the scope of paragraph 7 - it is very considerable, At the same time, the distinguished  delegation of Dahomey - and I, of course, have no doubts as to the very high motives by which the distin-  guished delegate of Dahomey is guided - Ie proposing an essentially new text to us for paragraph 7, When  we are completely exhausted, it is hard to take things in by ear and to see whether the proposal of the  delegate of Dahomey really satisfies the interests of all and whether it expresses what we would like to see  In this paragraph.
(172.2) 1 also have trouble in this connexion because it seems that the main ideas by which the delegate of  Dahomey fa gulded have been reflected In the present paragraph 7 recommended to us by the Working Group,  Thère le a reference to the United Nations Charter, to the Constitution of our Organization and to the  Universal Declaration of Human Rights, it speaks of the sovereign equality of the rights of peoples and  States, strésses the principle of non-interference in the Internal affairs of States, speaks of respect for  human rights and fundamental freedoms, irrespective of race, sex, language and religion and, in short,  contains the main ideas which we would like to see in this paragraph, 1am afraid that if we seek for a new  way of expressing these same ideas, we shall not succeed since we have no written amendment before us.  This 18 why I would ask the distinguished delegation of Dahomey to agree to the text of paragraph 7 aa  recommended to us by the Working Group, We would vote on this paragraph and go on and complete our  work today, and would not carry our meeting over to tomorrow, Thank you, Madam President.
173, The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Dahomey has the floor,
174.1 M. BOISSIER-PALUN (Dahomey). -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais d'abord remercier notre collèguele réprésentant del'Union  soviétique d'avoir fait observer que le texte que je présente reflète les idées qu'il voulait inclure  dana le projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 28 et que l'on a cherché à exprimer dans le paragraphe
7, Je n'introduis pas de nouvelles idées dans le débat, je propose simplement une nouvelle rédac-  Mon, et c'est le paragraphe 7, tel qu'il figure dans le projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28 qui  m'a suggéré cette rédaction,
174.2 Les appréhensions qui ont du faire naître l'absence d'un texte écrit devraient être les nôtres  depuis le début de ce débat, puisque toutes les propositions d'amendements que nous avons adoptées  jusqu'à prêsent ont, en tait, été présentées oralement. J'ai pris soin pour ma part de communi-  quer au Secrétaire et au bureau un texte écrit qui sera relu lentement aussi souvent que nécessaire  pour que chacun sache sur quoi il vote.
174.3 Je répète que les idées exprimées dans ma proposition d'amendement ne font que reprendre,  en les classant dans un erdre logiqué, et en les présentant de façon plus rationnelle, toutes les  idées qui sont exprimées dans l'actuel paragraphe 7 dont la formulation paraît confuse à beaucoup,  et à moi en particulier.
174.4 Cela dit, je voudrais revenir sur l'intervention de notre collègue du Pérou. Quand celui-ci  ironisait sur le caractère quelque peu lyrique de nos textes, j'ai d'abord pensé ‘qu'il visait mon  amendement ; mais je me suis finalement aperçu qu'il parlait d'un tout autre texte que le mien,  S'il avait eu mon texte en main, il se serait probablement rendu compte que j'ai largement tenu,  compte des préoccupations qui sont les siennes et qu'il a formulées. ce matin, Ayant perçu, comme  lui, le soupçon de paternalisme que comporte le fait de porter une attention particulière à la situa-  tion spéciale des pays défavorisés, j'ai rédigé mon paragraphe (e) dans les termes exacts qu'il |  souhaite, puisque j'y parle de "la nécessité prioritaire de tout mettre en oeuvre pour remédier à  l'injustice dont sont victimes les pays, les groupes et les personnes les plus défavorises'. Il ne  s'agit pas ici de pleurer sur la misère des uns ou des autres, ou de tendre la main en courbant  l'échine, il s'agit d'exiger un droit qui résulte d'une situation que tout le monde reconnaît comme  injuste.
174,5 Si donc, Madame la Présidente, un certain nombre de nos collègues n'ont pas exactement  compris, après une première lecture, tout ce que j'ai voulu indiquer, j'insiste pour qu'une nou-  velle lecture de ce texte soit donnée. Je répète cependant qu'il s'agit simplement d'une remise  en ordre plus logique des éléments figurant au paragraphe 7. Merci, Madame la Présidente,
175, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Byelorussia.
176.1 I'-u B.I'. AHHIIYK (Benopycckaa Coperckaa Couxanxornueckas Pecnybnnxa): -  Top. IIpeAcenarenb, MHe KaXercf, UTO BHCTYNNOHHE YyhaxaeMOro npeAcranurens JlaroMex p  obmeM coorsercrayer AYXY nyHkra 7 npoekra pesonouxx 18 C/PLEN/DR.28. Moxer 6urs, B He-
176.2 51-xoTen Gti Takxe OKAIATL HECKONbKO CNOB.0 TOM, kak Pa6oyas rpynna noaxoaHna K BbpabotT-  xé Texcra NYHKTa 7 npoekra pesonnumx 18 C/PLEN/DR.28, Tipexae ncero, p Paboyeñ rpynne cno-  XH/OCb BMGYATAEHHO, YTO TOKCT, KOTOPHÂ NEpBOHAYANbHO 61a NIPEANOXEH B NpoekTe pésONDLHH
18 C/PLEN/DR .18 u koropsfñ Bn °ersipex KOPOTKHX NYHKTAX NHTANCA ONPORGNHTL NPHHUHNEI NOANHH-  HOrO MEXAYHAPOAHOTO COYPpyAHHYECTEA, ABNAGTCA HOAOCTATOYHLHM H H@NONHBM. Bor noyemy PaGoyaa  rpynna npHHANa pemeHHe O HEOGXOAHMOCTH AONMOJHHTb 3TOT TEKOT CCHNKAMH Ha OCHOBHBIG MPHHLHNM  MeXAyHapoAHOTO COYpyAHHYOCTBA, MNpOBOIMNANEeHHbEe B Ycrase Oprannaauxnu O6%eanxennsix Haunñ,  B YcTane IOHECKO, a rakxe no Bceo6ueH Rexrapauxx npas YenoBeKA, H Mbl 3ATOM NOCTapanHeb ne-  peuHCAHTb 3TH OCHOBHHIE MPHHUHINE, HCMONb3OBAB YCTABHHE TekcT OOH nu IOHECKO.
176.3 BO3MOXHO; yBaxaeMhi npeicrasHrens JlaroMeH cuen, UTÔ TEKCT, NpeANOXEHHEH Pabouyeït  rpynnoft HeCXOALKO TAXENOBAT, H OH NOSTOMY NPEANOXHA HHYD pedakuHN STOrO TéXCT4. Mhèé xaxer-  CA, YTO eme pas NpocnymaB TeKCT MONPABOK, NpeAnaraeMbix YBAXAOMEIM NpeACTaBHTeneM JlaroMex,  H B CAÿUYA@, ECNH MH YÔEAHMCH, UTO HAeH NYHKTA 7, paspa6otanxoro Paboueñ rpynnoñ, OTpaxeHe! B  nonpanke JaromeH, Mb MOraH Gb COFNACHTBCA C TOMH NPeiNOXeHHANMH, KOTOPEIE OH CAenan.
176.4 Mite Aymaercs, OAHAKO, UTO, ECAH Ha HMHEWHEM STANE BbpaÔOorxa KaxOro-To HOBOTO, Gonee  OTpa6OTaHHOro TexXCTa HEBO3MOXHA, TO MH BNONHÉ MOrAH 6 COFNACHTLCA C TEKCTOM, paspabotaH-  Hum Pa6ouel rpynnoñ, Nockonbky 3TOT TEKCT ABNAOTCÂ GAKTHYECKH HIBAGYEHHEM H3 TeKCTOB ŸCTaBA  Opranwaauxx O65eanxentsx Hauxñ, Ycrasa Hameñ OpranWsauxx, H 9TO Te NpHHUHNBI, HA KOTOPHX  AeHCTBHTENBHO CTPOHTCA MEXAYHAPOAHOES COTPyYAHHYeCTBO. Bnaroñapp Bac.
(176,1) Mr, ANISHCHUK (Byelorussian Soviet Socfaltst Republic) {Translation from the Russian):  Madam President, 1 feel that the statement made by the distinguished delégate of Dahomey reflects,  in general, the spirit of paragraph 7 of draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 28, The representative of  Dahomey could, perhaps, take into consideration to a scmewhat greater extent the substance of the two  specific remarks subsequently make by the distinguished representative of Peru.
(176, 2) I should also like to say a few words about how the Working Group approached the elaboration of  the text of paragraph 7 of draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28, To begin with, the impression was formed  in the Working Group that the text first submitted in draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 18, and which tried  in four short paragraphs to define the principles of genuine international co- -operatfon, was insufficient  and incomplete, This is why the Working Group decided that it was necessary to complete this text by  references to the main principles of international co-operation as stated th the United Nations Charter, the  Constitution of Unesco and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and we then attempted to enumerate  thesé main principles, on thé basis of the constitutional texts of the United Nations and Unesco,
(176, 3) The distinguished representative of Dahomey possibly thought that the text proposed by the Work-  ing Group was somewhat ponderous and proposed another wording for this reason. I feel that when we have  heard again the text of the amendments proposed by the distinguished representative ‘of Dahomey, and if we  are convinced that the ideas in paragraph 7 as elaborated by the Working Group are réflected therein, we  could agree with the text h2 has proposed.
(176.4) I nevertheless think that if it is linpossible al the present stage to draw ip some new and more  polished text, we could agree completely with the text elaborated by the Working Group since thie text is  drawn from the texts of the United Nations Charter and the Constitution of our Organization and these are  the principles on which international co-operation is, in fact, constructed. Thank you,
177, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of Algeria has the floor.
178.1 M. DERRADII (Algérie). -  Madame la Présidente, je remercie mon ami le délégué du Dahomey pour l'amendement qu'il  vient de présenter, Il procède peut-être di souct de donner plus de clarté au paragraphe 7 contenu  dans le projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR.28, mais son alinéa (d) appellé de ina part une remar-  bien entendu, cet alinéa sérait jibel1é ¢omme suit : "une prise de conscience de l'inter-  dépendance croissante entre les pays et la nécessité d'une répartition plus équitable des richesses  du monde".
178.2 Madame la Présidente, il avait été convenu au sein du Groupe dé travail de supprimer cet  alinéa pour ‘deux raisons : d'abord parce que ce problèmé est traité dans la résolution que vient  d'adopter la Conférence générale sur la contribution de l'Uriésto à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre  économique, ensuite parce que, tel qu'il est libellé, cet alinéa ne reflète pas exacetment les prin-  cipes qui découlent de la déclaration adoptée par l'Organisation des Nations Unies, Nous avions  doñc écarté cet alinéa, Je voudrais donc demander à mon ami du Dahomey s'il maîntient cet ali-  néa ; si oul, je développerai les arguments'qui justifient sa suppression ; si non, je m'en tiendrai  à ce que je viens de dire, Merci, Madame la Présidente.
179. The PRESIDENT:  May I ask the delegate of Dahomey whether he agrees with the statement of the delegate of  Algeria,
180. 1 M. BOISSIER-PALUN (Dahomey). -  - Merci, Madame la Présidente, Mes premiers mots seront d'abord pour remercier nos deux  collègues de l'Union Bovibtique et Ye Président du Groupe de travail pour l'esprit de coopération
508   dont ils font preuve dans cette discussion, Je crois que je peux rassirer en préinier leu notre  collègue de l'Union soviétique en lui faisant observer qu'à la deuxième lecture de ce texte 11 trou-  vora certainement un apaisement aux appréhensions qu'il a exprimées,
180.2 En ce qui concerne notre collègue de l'Algérie, qui est président du Groupe de travail, il a  certainement raison lorsqu'il dit que le sous-paragraphe (d) ne reflète pas l'idée de la nécessité  de l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique mondial, Je suis tout disposé à introduire cette  idée. Si je ne l'ai pas fait, c'est que je m'étais efforcé de m'éloigner le moins possible de la  forme et du contenu du texte original du paragraphe 7. Si toutefois cette solution est de nature à  rallier tous les suffrages, je suis disposé à rédiger le sous-paragraphe (d) comme suit : "Une  prise de conscience de l'interdépendance croissante entre les pays et la nécessité de l'iristauration  d'un nouvel ordre éconoraique mondial", au lieu de "la nécessité d'une répartition plus équitable  des richesses du monde", Pour moi, c'était 1a même chose.
180,3 Je voudrais ajouter à l'adresse de notre collègue de Turquie que je suis tout à fait d'accord  pour que l'on dise "la Déclaration universelle des droits de l'homme", Merci, Madame la Prési-  dente,
181. The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Niger has the floor,
182. M. ABDOU (Niger). -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais attirer votre attention sur le fait que ma délégation est  favorable au maintien de l'Article 7 tel que l'a rédigé le Groupe de travail. Elle estime toutefois  que l'on pourrait, dans la première partie, supprimer les mots "dans les domaines de compétence  de l'Unesco” , puisque l'on se réfère par la suite à l'Acte constitutif de l'Unésco, En remplaçant  en outre "nécessite" par "requiert", on tiendrait compte de l'observation formulée par le repré-  sentant du Pérou, Telle est ma proposition, Madame la Présidente, Je vous remercie,
183. The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Peru on a point of order,
(184) Mr, CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President, we are most surprised at the fact that the debate is continuing, I should like to  ask you, Madam President, to Le good enough to put the amendments to the vote, . There are two amend-  ments: that submitted by the delegate of Dahomey, which involves a complete redrafting, and that submit-  ted by Peru, which makes two specific additions to paragraph 7 of the Working Group's version. I should  like to ask the Secretary to read out the two amendments, Thank you,
185, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The amendment submitted by Dahomey is the furthest removed from the original  text, =o it has to be pul to the vote first. I now ask the Secretary to read the amendment of  Dahomey very, very, slowly.
186.1 Le SECRETAIRE. -  Je lis:  Déclare qu'une véritable coopération internationale exige, conformément aux principes fonda-  mentaux définis dans la Charte des Nations Unies, dans l'Âcte constitutif de l'Unesco ainsi  que dans la Déclaration universelle des droits de l'homme :  (a) l'égalité de droit des peuples et de lenr droit à disposer d'eux-mêmes, ce qui implique  le principe de non-intervention dans les affaires relevant essentiellement de la juridic-  tion intérieure d'un Etat ;  (b) la reconnaissance et le respect absolus de la dignité de la personne humainc ainsi que  l'égalité entre les hommes ;  (ec) le respect ‘de l'identité propre et des aspirations culturelles de chaque peuple ; R  (d) une prise de conscience de l'interdépendance croissante entre les pays et la nécessité  de l'instauration d'un nouvel erdre économique international H  (e) la nécessité prioritaire de mettre tout en oeuvre pour remédier à l'injustice dont sont  victimes les pays, les groupes et les personnes les plus défavorisés, "
187.1 The PRESIDENT:  In the absence of comments, I put the amendment of Dahomey to the vote,
187.2 The amendment is adopted by 83 votes to none, with 14 abstentions,
187, 3 The delegate of the German Democratic Republic has the floor.
45 188. Mme SCHOBER (République démocratique allemande), -  Madame la Présidente,\il n'était pas possible, pendant la lecture, de noter exactement le  texte intégral. Ce serait, à mon avis, sous-estimer l'importance d'un tel texte que dc voter sur  lui sans l'avoir pris intégralement par écrit, Merci, Madame la Présidente,
189, The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Japan has the floor.
190, Mr, HIRONAGA (Japan):  Thank you. Madam President, I would like to associate myself with the previous speaker,  Thank you,
191. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, There is another amendment, The delegate of Guinea has the floor.
192. M. CAMARA (Guinée). -  Madame la Présidente, ma délégation s'est absténue lors du vote sur l'amendement présenté  par le représentant du Dahomey ; nous n'étions en effet pas en mesure de donner entièrement  notre point de vue après avoir simplement eu lecture d'un texte aussi long.
193.1 The PRESIDENT:  We have finished Part I. Now we will proceed to Part II, beginning with paragraph 8,  Paragraph 8
193.2 Are there any amendments? The delegate of Norway has the floor,
194 Mr. GARBO (Norway):  I wish to vote against paragraph 8, Would you please take a vote on this paragraph,
195.1 The PRESIDENT:  I put to the vote paragraph 8,  (The vote was taken by show of hands, )
195.2 Paragraph 8 is adopted by 74 votes to 4, with 16 abstentions,  Paragraph 9
195.3 Now we come to paragraph 9, The delegate of Canada has the floor.
196, M, GAGNON (Canada), -  Madame la Présiaente, étant donné ce que le Directeur général adjoint nous a dit ce matin - et  il ne faisait que répéter le message que lui avait confié le Directeur général - je crois qu'il faudrait  supprimer les paragraphes 9 et 10,
197. The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Dahomey has the floor.
198. M, BOISSIER-PALUN (Dahomey). - )  Merci, Madame la Présidente, Je seral bref. Je suggère que le paragraphe 9 soit supprimé,  mais je demande le maintien du paragraphe 10, et je m'en expliquerai tout à l'heure.
199,1 The PRESIDENT:  Are you suggésting deletion of paragraph 9? Yes? Thank you,
199, 2 The delegate of Guinea has the floor.
200, M, CAMARA (Guinée). -  Madame la Présidente, je croyais qu'il y avait une proposition a faire au nom du groupe afri-  cain, mais je vois que je peux peut-btre m'en dispenser, En tout cas, n'ayant pas fini de rédiger  mon texte, je ne veux pas retarder lsc trevaux de la Conférence, et, sila majorité est favorable  à la suppression du paragraphe 9, je me rallierai à cette décision.
201, The PRESIDENT:  ‘The delegate of Togo has the floor,
202. M, AGBLEMAGNON (Togo). - ;  Madame la Présidente, je suggère, moi aussi, la suppression du paragraphe 9 pour une rai-  son très simple : parce qu'il y a une certaine ambigufté quant à la modalité de son application.  Etant donné que nous disposons déjà d'anciens textes de la Conférence générale qui règlent cette  queation de la participation dé l'Unesco a des réunions auxquelles participent l'Atrique du Sud et  la Rhodésie, je suggère formellement que ce paragraphe 9 soit supprimé.
203, The PRESIDENT: |  Thank you, The delégate of Senegal has thé floor,
204, M. DIENE (Sénégal). -  Madame la Présidente, ma délégation soutient la proposition du délégué du Dahomey tendant  A faire supprimer le paragraphe 9, mais elle s'oppose fermement à la suppression - proposée par  le Canada - du paragraphe 10. En effet, ma délégation estime que la suppression di paragraphe 9  ne sé justifie que par le maintien du paragraphe 10, qui permet aux Etats opposés à l'apartheid et  à l'Afrique du Sud de proposer, chaque fois que l'Afrique du Sud se trouve représentée dans une  réunion conjointe de l'Unesco et d'une autre institution des Nations Unies, de présenter, dès le dé-  but de cette réunion, des résolutions demandant son exclusion. Je propose donc fermement que  nous maintenions le paragraphe 10 et que le paragraphe 9 soit supprimé.
205. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of France has the floor,
206. M. BATAULT (France). -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais m'associer à la proposition du délégué du Dahomey ten-  dant à faire supprimer le paragraphe 8 et à celle du délégué du Canada tendant À faire supprimer  le paragraphe 10. Je vous remercie, Madame la Présidente.
207, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of Ethiopia has the floor.
208. Mr, HABTE (Ethiopia):  Madam President, I take it that we are dealing with item 9 only, I take it that there is already  a pronouncement by this Organization, and that through the Executive Board and its Committees,  enough investigation has been done, will continue to be made, in view of investigating various non-  governmental organizations that have affiliations in Southern Africa, With that understanding, and  only with that understanding, will we be prepared to vote for the deletion of the paragraph as  superfluous,
209, The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Algeria has the floor,
210, M. DERRADJI (Algérie), -  Madame la Présidente, lorsque le groupe de travail a approuvé le paragraphe 9, son attention  n'avait pas été attir&e d'une manière précise sur les difficultés d'application qu'il souleverait.  Compte tenu des explications qui ont été données ce matin par le Directeur général adjoint - et à  la condition que les paragraphes 10 et 11 soient maintenus - je considère que nous pouvons suppri-  mer le paragraphe. 9, ce qui ne veut nullement dire que nous souhaitions associer l'Afrique du sud  aux activités de l'Unesco, Merci, Madame la Présidente,
211,1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing paragraph 9, Is there any objection to  the deletion of paragraph 97?
211, 2 The delegate of the German Democratic Republic has the floor.
212, Mr. GRUMBACH (German Democratic Republic):  A point of clarification, Madam President, Would you kindly say which paragraph we are now  to vote on? Thank you.
213.1 The PRESIDENT:  It is paragraph 9 exclusively, Is there any objection to the proposal to delete paragraph 9?
213, 2 There are no cbjections, The paragraph is deleted,  Paragraph 10
213,3 On paragraph 10, there is a proposal from Canada which still stands. I put the proposal  to delete this paragraph to the vote.  (The vote was taken by show of hands).
213.4 The proposal is rejected hy 67 votes to 26, with 5 abstentions; so that the paragraph still  stands.  Paragraph 11
213.5 I now come to paragraph 11. 1 give the floor to the Deputy Director-General,
214, Mr. FOBES (Deputy Director-Genere1}:  Madam President, in the English text where it says "in response to the invitation addressed .  to him" it should have read "In response to the Invitation addressed to them". The Director-  General will réport to the Executive Board concerning measures taken by Member States in res-.  ponse to the invitation extended to them,
45 215.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you,
215.2 The delegate of Norway has the floor on a point of order,
216, Mr. GARBO (Norway): ,  Madam President, my delegation would like to have a vote taken on this paragraph, as we wish  to vote against it, Thank you,
217,1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I put it to the vote.  (The vote was taken by show of hands. }
217,2 Paragraph 11 is adopted by 73 votes to‘4, with 19 abstentions.  Paragraph 12
217,3 Are there any amendments to paragraph 12?
217,4 The delegate of Yugoslavia has the floor.
218, M, JOVANOVIC (Yougoslavie). -  . Madame la Présidente, je voudrais proposer un amendement : ajouter après les mots ‘la do-  mination", à la deuxième ligne, les mots "et l'occupation", Merci, Madame,
219,1 The PRESIDENT:  Are there any objections? No,
219, 2 Paragraph 12 is adopted with the amendment proposed by the delegate of Yugoslavia,  Paragraph 13
219, 3 The delegate of the Netherlands has the floor.
220. M, DE HOOG (Pays-Bas). -  Madame, j'aimerais, avant que l'assemblée ne se prohonce sur ce paragraphe 13, être assuré  que'elle tiendra bien compte de la'déclaration qu'a faite ce matin le Directeur général adjoint en ce  qui concerne ce paragraphe. Merci, Madame la Présidente,
221,1 The PRESIDENT:  Well, I hope the General Conference still remembers what the Deputy Director-General sald,
221, 2 The delegate of the Philippines has the floor.
222, Mr, CASTRO (Philippines): ;  Thank you very much, Madem President. It is just an amendment to make this provision con-  sistent with the decision of the General Conference a while ago on the preambular paragraphs: to  add, after "nationas liberation movements", the phrase "officially recognized by the regional  organizations", and then continue the sentence, Thank you, Madam President.
223, The PRESIDENT: : '  Thank you, The delegate of Dahomey has the floor.
224,1 M, BOISSIER -PALUN (Dahomey), -  Madame la Présidente, je propose une nouvelle rédaction pour ce paragraphe 13, et je m'en  excuse par avance auprès des membres du Groupe de travail. En effet, la lecture de ce paragraphe  fait apparaître un certain nombre dé’ choses qui ont échappé aux membres du Groupe de travail en  raison du temps limité qui leur était imparti, Si vous lisez ce paragraphe vous constatez qu'on ÿ  dit "invite l'Unesco à veiller à ce que des ressources soient fournies en priorité pour les program-  mes d'assistance ,.. etc.”. Mais qui invite l'Unesco ? L'Ünésco, c'est nous ; nous nous invitons  donc nous-mêmes. Deuxièmement, qui fournit les ressources ? C'est nous encore qui les four-  nissons eh votant lé budgét et en votänt 1é programme, Jé crois que ce paragraphé 13 d besoin,  pour le moins, d'être légèrement réajusté pour correspondre à la situation réelle ; voilà pourquoi  je propose, à la place du texte actuel, le texte suivant : "Invite le Directeur général à prévoir,  dans le prochain Projet de programme et de budget, l'accroissement des ressources affectées à  l'assistance aux mouvements de libération nationale et aux peuples des régions libérées",
224.2 Je propose cette rédaction en mon nom personnel, mais aussi au nom de certains de mes  collègues qui ont bien voulu me confier le goin de présenteér cette modification ; je précise tout dé  suite à l'adresse dé notre collègue dés Philippines, ‘dont j'ai entendu l'intervention tout à l'heure,  que c'est exprès que nous ne ffiettôns pas "reccnnug pir l'OUA" ou par qui que cé soît, car nôus  entendons couvrir l'ensemble des mouvements de Mbératiofi nationale. Merci, Madame la Pré-  sidente.
225, The PRESIDENT: .. . 45  Thank you. -1 give the floor to the delegate of Algeria,
226, M. DERRADII (Algérie), -  Madame la Présidente, j'approuve entièrement la nouvelle rédaction proposée par le délégué  du Dahomey.
227. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Ethiopia.
228,1 Mr, HABTE (Ethiopia): ’  Madam President, as was suggested -by our colleague from Dahomey, paragraph 13 needs; I  think, to be made moré precise, So far, in the Execütive Board and in hé General Conférence,  we have dealt vith two typés of liberation movements specifically recognizéd bj the Organizatioh,  One is the Polestine Liberation Organization and the others are the African Liberation Movements  recognized by the OAU, Because we have discussed these two specific areas, we would like this  paragraph to be limited to those areas which we have diséüssed, accepted and dealt with, namely  the Palestine Liberation Organization and the African Liberation Movements recognized by the  U.
228.2 As to the rest, where the text says ' 'and to the peéptes of llberated regions", it seems to us  somewhat taitologous, because the Organization works through the liberation movements if they  are not free, or through their governments if they are free. So this seems perhaps a little bit of  tautology, and we would like to delete those last words,
229, The PRESIDENT;  Thank you. The delegate of Yugoslavia has the floor,
230. M, JOVANOVIC (Yougoslavie). - -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais proposer le texte suivant pour le paragraphe 13 : "Invite  le Directeur général à veiller à ce que des ressources du programme de participation du biennium
1975-1976 soient fournies dans ur3 mesure adéquate pour les programmes d'assistance aux mou-  vements de libération nationals et aux peuples des régions libérées", après quoi l'on poursuivrait  avec la formule proposée par notre collègue du Dahomey "de prévoir dans le programme futur,  ete.". Merci, Madame,
231, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of Peru has the floor.
(232) Mr, CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Madam Président, I support the proposal made by the delegate of Dahomey and also the  proposal just made by the delegate of Yugoslavia,
233, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The delegate of Australia has the floor.
234, Mr. ANDERSON (Australia):  Madam Presidént, the points we wished to raise have been covered by previous: speakers, I  should like to associate myself with the amendments moved both by Dahomey and by the Philippines,  Thank you,
235, The PRESIDENT: -  : J give the floor to the delegate of the German Democratic Republic,
236. Mme ‘SCHOBER (République démocratique allémande). -  Madame la Présidente, nous souhaitons appuyer les propositions des délégués du Dahomey et  de l'Ethiopie, parce que nous pensons que l'on arriverait en les acceptant à un texte plus clair et  plus efficace, Merci, Madame la Présidente, . .
237, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, 1 give the floor to the delegate « of Senegal.
238. ‘M: DIENE (Sénégal). - +  Madame 18 Présidente, le Senegal Ent coauteur de l'amendement nt propbi6 | par Me Dahomey et
1'appule donc très foriemerit.
239. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Nigeria,
240, Mr, HARRIMAN (Nigeria): ‘ PTT ‘  Madam President, I would also like to support the proposal of the delegation of Dahomey, and
48 to suggest that the points raised by the distinguished delegate of Ethiopia are very serious indecd  unless we qualify what we mean by "liberation movements" as he has done, I would therefore  suggest that the delegate of Dahomey, whose amendments the Nigerian delegation has seconded,  should take into consideration the suggestions made by our colleague from Ethiopia,
241, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Guinea,
242. M, CAMARA (Guinée), - Lo ' :  Madame la Présidente, tout en soutenant la proposition présentée par l'honorable délégué du  Dahomey, dont mon pays est, lui aussi, coauteur, nuus pensons qu'il faut tenir compte de la pro-  position qui a été faite par la Yougoslavie en ce qui concerne notamment les prochaines années,  puisque la proposition du Dahoraey n'intéregse que les années postérieures à 1977 ; je crois donc  qu'il faudroit intégrer cette dernière proposition à celle de la Yougoslavie. -
243. The PRESIDENT: |  Thank you, I give the floor to the Deputy Director-General.
244, Mr, FOBES (Deputy Director-General):  Madam President, I would only like to guy again that the Director-General now has an authori-  zation epecifically under the Participation Programme to make assistance available to liberation  movements, The authorization thus exists specifically, Secondly, to repeat the assurance that I  already gave, any request froin the liberation movements would be considered under the Partici-  pation Programme of 1975-1976, In that sense perhaps the Conference would not feel it necessary  to introduce that clause here. Thirdly the Director-General feels that any instructions in this  regard ought to be specific, and therefore he welcomes the clear definition of "liberation move-  ments recognized by regional organizations",
245. The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Dahomey has the floor,
246.1 M, BOISSIER-PALUN (Dahomey), -  Merci, Madame la Présidente, Je voulais justement Indiquer à notre collègue yougoslave que  si nous n'avons pas mentionné ce qui va se passer d'ici l'adoption du prochain Projet de programme,  c'est précisément parce que nous avons déjà décidé que le Directeur général serait autorisé à faire  ce qu'il demande. Je souhaite donc qu'il n'insiste pas sur son amendement, puisque celui-ci a  déjà reçu satisfaction.
246.2 En ce qui concerne l'amendement présenté par notre collègue le représentant de l'Ethiopie,  je l'accepte très volontiers et je vous demande de considérer qu'il est inclus dans l'amendement  que je vous ai présenté, afin qu'il n'y ait pas d'équivoque aur ce point, Merci, Medame la Pré-  sidente.
247, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Does the delegate of Yugoslavia insist on his amendment?
248. M. JOVANOVIC (Yougoslavie). -  Non, Madame la Présidente, je suis pret à retirer ma proposition si le délégué qui l'avait  soutenue en est d'accord, Il s'agissait, je crois, du représentant de la Guinée,
249. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, There are no other amendments, 1 ask the Secretary to read the amendments one  by one, ’
250. Le SECRETAIRE, -  Madame la Présidente, le nouvel article 13 amendé conformément aux propositions des délé-  gations du Dahomey et de l'Ethiopie se lirait comme suit : "Invite 1e Directeur général à prévoir  dans le Projet de programme et de budget à venir l'accroissement des réssources affectées à  l'assistance aux mouvements de libération natiônale reconnus par les organisations régionales, et  aux peuples des régions libérées", :
251, The PRESIDENT:  Any objections? Ethiopia has the floor.
252, Mr, HABTE (Ethiopia): ‘  Madam President, I specified that up to date we have the Palestine Liberation Organization  and the African Liberation Movements recognized by the OAU, Therefore we should simply state:  "... programmes of assistance to the PLO and to African Liberation Movements recognized bythe  OAU", The further words: "and to the peoples of liberated regions" become tautologous and should  be deleted.
253. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of Dahomey has the floor,
254,1 M, BOISSIER-PALUN (Dahomey). - ' 45  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je voudrais demander à mon ami d'Ethiopte de ne pas insister  pour la suppression des mots "et aux peuples des régions libérées' car l'assiatance de l'Unesco  peut prendre des formes variées et il n'est pas obligatoire qu'elle passe par des organisations ou  par des gouvernements. La formule'dont la suppression est proposée a d'ailleurs déjà été utilisée  dans d'autres dispositions que nous avons » adoptées lors de la discussion de certaines de ces ques-  tions au Conseil exécutif. :
255, The PRESIDENT: b  I request the Secretary to read the amendment text again.
256, Le SECRETAIRE,-, . | AE  Madame la Présidente, si j'ai bien saisi le sens du .sous-amendement de l'Ethiopie, le texte  se Mrait comme suit : "Invite le Directeur général à prévoir dans le Projet de programme et de .  budget à ‘venir l'accroissement des ressources affectées à l'assistance au mouvement de libération  de Palestine et aux mouveménts de libération reconnus par l'Organisation d'Unité africaine ainsi  qu'aux peuples des régions libérées",
257, The PRESIDENT:  Are there any.objections? The delegate. of the United States of America has the floor.
258, Mr. WARVARIV (United States of America);  Madam President, may we have a vote on this paragraph?
259,1 The PRESIDENT:  I put the amended text to the vote.  {The vote was taken by show of hands, )
259, 2 The amended text is adopted by 75 votes to 7, with 14 abstentions,  Paragraph 14
259,3 Are there any amendments to paragraph 14? The delegate of Israel has the floor.
260, Mr, ARIEL (Israel):  Madam President, Israel considers’ this paragraph 14 irrelevant and wishes it to be deleted.  Thank you, Madam President,  . - The PRESIDENT;  "nar you, 1 give the floor to the delegate of the United States of America,
262, Mr, WARVARIV (United States of America):  Madam President, we would like to second the proposal that has just been made, Thank you,
263. The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Lebanon has the floor.
264, M, STETIE (Liban). -  Madame la ‘Présidente, , il ne saurait ttre question : a mes yeux de supprimer le paragraphe 14,  qui ‘s'inscrit dans la 1igne des diverses résolutions que notre Organisation a déjà vôtées et par les-  quelles elle a accueilli parmi nous l'Organisation pour la libération de la Palestine, Certes, cette  organisation n'a aujourd'hui qu'un statut d'observateur, mais nous savons tous pertinethment qu'il  ne saurait s'agir là que d'un statut provisoire, Un jour viendra, que rious appelons de nos voeux,  où le peuple exilé de Palestine verra mettre fin à son exil et se retrouvera là où il aurait toujours  dû rester, sur une terre et au sein d'une patrie semblable à chacune dé ces patries dont nous tirôns  tous notre légitime fiertô et qui conditionne notre enracinement dans le monde, Oui, pour les be-  soins les plus élevés ‘de la paix et de la justice et dans notre désir dé nous opposer A toutes les’  puissances de l'oppression, du colonialisme et du:racisme, nous exprimons le ferme espoir que la  Palestine rejoindra la communauté des nations au sein de toutes les organisations internationales,  dont la nôtre. Merci, Madame la Présidente. -
265.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, the delegate of Israel has moved to delete this paragraph, This pro-  posal was seconded by the delegate of the United States, I put to the vote the proposal to delete  paragraph 14, ;  “(A vote was taken by show of hands).
265. 2 The proposal of Israel is rejected by 60 votes to 18, with 20, abstentions. Co 5,
265.3 I give the floor to the delegate of Canada. ; CT Cay  vo, 4
45 286. M, GAGNON (Canada), - :  . Madame la Présidente, si le Canada s'est abstenu Aur lé paragraphe 14, c'est parcè qué celui-  ci comporte une très grande ambigufté;: Qu'est-ce que la Palestine ? M est ‘évident que le Canada’  reconnaît l'Etat d'Israël, Par ailleurs nous savons ausei qu'il exist> des territoires occupés et  qu'il peut très bien arriver.un jour qu'une Palestine se crée là où il y a des territoires qui sont  momentanément occupés. .Alors, à ce moment-là) il n'y aura aucune objection à ce que la Pales-  tine puisse rejoindre l'Unesco, mais comme il y avait une grande ambigufté,' nous nous sommes  abstenus,
267, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of New Zealand.
268. Miss FORSYTH (New Zealand):  Thank you, Madam President, The New Zealand delegation voted for the deletion of ‘para-  graph 14; bécausé we consider it inappropriate for Uneaco to make a staterient on a major political  question which is the subject of a General Assembly debate taking place at! ‘present. Thank you,
269, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Switzerland,
270, M, HUMMEL (Suisse). -  Madame lé Présidente, n'ayant pas participé à'èé voté, je voudrais m'éxpliquer, LiUnésco  est une organisation intergouvernementale et, pour autant que je sache, il n'existe actuellement  aucun Etat qui porte le nom de Palestine, Madam® la Présidente, il est bien évident que, si un  jour un tel Etat était créé légalement et 8'il demandait A tre admis à l'Unesco, mon pays, qui a  toujours reconnu le principe de l'universalité de cette organisation, voterait certainement en fa-  veur de l'admission de ce pays. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
271, The PRESIDENT: ;  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Ethiopia,
272. Mr, HABTE (Ethiopia): Coe  Madam President, we abstained on this paragraph 14, not because of substance but because  of procedure, Due to the legal subleties between the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies,  we had asked for instructions which we have not received, That is why we abstained,
273. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of the United States of America,
274, Mr, JONES (United States of America): ;  Thank you, Madam President. We voted against this proposal simply because no such State  presently exists legally and under the principles of international law there is ho ‘sovérelghty d e jure  or de facto. Therefore, there is really nothing to vote on, and it is, as we all know, éssentially  a political issue, which is certainly beyond the competence of this forum, Thank you, Madam  President,
2175. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of France.
276. M. BATAULT (France). -  Madame la Présidente, nous avons voté contre ce paragraphe parce qu'il n'existe pas d'Etat  palestiriien ét qu'il s'agit d'un problème qui n'est-pas de la compétence de l'Unesco. , Merci, Ma-  dame la Présidente.
277, The PRESIDENT:  Thank: you, I give the floor to the delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany,  +
218, Me. PETERSEN (Federal Republio of Germany):  Thank you, Madam President, We had to vote against this: ‘paragraph becausé it séems to pre-  judge a question which is still under discussion ahd has not yet been decided by the competent  organs of the United Nations. Thank you, Madam’ President,
279. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Australia.
280, ‘Mr, 'ANDERSON (Australia): 5  “Thank you, Madañn Président, ‘ dy delegation abstdired on thie paiagiliph £ for the ténèvilne  reason: Australia agrees fully that the people of Palestine should be enabled to exercibe their  legitimate political rights, including the right to self-determination; : and if the people of He tine  wish to create a State of their own alongside Israel, Australia would accept this, but against  background of the current debate >. a} the United Nations General Assembly, where the Sivosates. ot  the rights of the Paléstiné pééple have declined {os adinit' diy reference té thé parallel ifghts of the  State of Israel to exist, a right which my Government supports, We cannot accept the formulation  in paragraph 14 as it stands at present, We also share the rééervation éxpressed by othér dele-  gations as to the competence of this forum, Thank you,
281, The PRESIDENT;  Thank you. “1 ‘give the floor to the delegate of Belgium,
282, M. VAN USSEL (Belgique). - ©  .Merei, Madame la Présidente. Ma délégation à voté contre le paragraphe 14 parce qu'il est  en contradiction avec la résolution 496 adoptée par l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies a sa  dixième session spéciaie ; en effet, d'après cette résolution, la question de la délimitation des  Etats dépend exclusivement de la compétence de l'Assemblée générale et du Conseil de sécurité  des Nations Unies, et les institutions spécialisées sont tenues de se conformer auxdécisionsprises  par l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies, Merci beaucoup, Madame la Présidente.
283, The PRESIDENT:  I give the floor to the delegate of Senegal,
284. M, DIENE (Sénégal), - . À  Madame la Présidente, ma délégation voudrait exprimer son étonnement devant l'absence,  dans lé projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28 présenté par le groupe de travail des paragraphes  qui, dans le projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR: 12, concernaient le Portugal. Si ma délégation  estime que ces paragraphes concernant le Portugal aurafent dû être maintenus, c'est parce que,  dans les résolutions adoptées les années précédentes, le Portugal a toujours été associé à la con-  damnation portée contre l'Afrique du Sud et la Rhodésie; : Or.ma délégation estime qu'un processus  de démocratisation et de décolonisation positif est actuellement en cours au Portugal, et nous.esti-  mons que ce processus doit être souligné par l'Organisation pour permettre aux forces démocra-  tiques du Portugal de mener ce processus de décolonisation à son terme, C'est la raison pour la-  quelle ma délégation propose formellement l'adjonction de deux nouveaux paragraphes ; le premier,  qui serait le paragraphe 15, se lirait comme suit : "Constate avec satisfaction les efforts qu'entre-  prend le Portugal dans la voie de la décolonisation". Le second, qui serait donc le paragraphe 16,  serait Hibellé commé auit : "“Exprimè le ferme espoir que cette action sera menéé jusqu'à son  terme final", Je souligne, Madame là Présidente, que deux paragraphes ainsi Libellés figuraient :  dans le projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR.12. Je vous remercie.
285, The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Algeria, the Chairman of the Working Group, has the floor.
286, M. DERRADJI (Algérie). -  Madame la Présidente, comme je l'ai indiqué hier, le groupe de travail a effectivement pris  comme base de travail le texte de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR.12, Mais, étant donné que la Confé-  rence générale a voté il y a quelques jours une résolution où se trouvaient reproduits certafns pa-  ragraphes de ce texte, il n'a pas jugé nécessaire de reprendre encore une fois ces paragraphes  dans le projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR.28. Je rappelle donc à mon ami le représentant du  Sénégal que les dispositions qu'il souhaiterait voir introduire dans le texte à l'étude (18 C/PLEN/  DR.28) figurent dès maintenant - bien que libellés, peut-être, en d'autres termes - dans une réso-  lution déjà adoptée par la Conférence générale, Merci, Madame la Présidente. :
287, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, !I give the floor to the delegate of France,
288. M, CHESNEAU (France). -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais appuyer la déclaration de l'honorable délégué de l'Algérie:  En effet, l'honorable délégué du Sénégal se souviendra que cette assemblée a pris, en ce qui con-  cerne le Portugal, une résolution distincte, qu'il a même eu l'occasion d'amender. Nous pensoiis  donc que les choses que nous dévions dire ont été dites, et qu'il'serait superflu de les répôter dans  le texte que nous étudions actuellement, Merci, Madame la Présidente.
289. "The PRESIDENT: - .  Thank you, The delegate of Senegal has the floor,
290.1 M. DIENE (Sknégal). -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais maintenir ma proposition, “et'la justifier par l'argument  suivant : dans les résolutions concernant le colonialisme, le racigme et l'apartheid, adoptées lors  des prééédentes sésslons'dé la Conférence générale, le Portiigal, l'Afrique du Sud ‘et 1a Rhodésie  étaient toujours condamnés dans les memes paragraphes, Cela signifie que, demain, les déléga-  tious pourront se baber, ‘par exemple, ‘sur là résolution 10/1 adoptée | pak la Conférence générale"  à sa dix-gebtième session, qûi associait le Portugal à l'Afrique ‘du Sud et à la Phédésié. C'est  pourquoi nous éstimôns qu'il sérait'éouhaltablé d'indféuer clairement dans lin ‘texte de theme nà-'  tûré - plus solerinel ‘que celui dont 1è représentant de la’ France viéAt de rappeler l'extéterice - - que  la Conférence-générale se félicite du processus de décolonisation actuellement en cours au Portugal,
290.2 Je maihtiens doné Ma proposition, Nous avons effectivement déjà votb une résolûtion qui  va dans le mièmé sens. “Mais nous ävoñs aussi voté dans 1e passé des résolutions sur, lé colonia-  lisme et la paix, et nous n'avons pas pour cela estimé devoir renoncer à parler encord’ une fois de  la paix et du colonialisme dans un texte d'une portée aussi large que le 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28.
291. The PRESIDENT:. - " ts  Thank you, The delegate of Guinea has the floor.
45 292. M. CAMARA (Guinée), - TE EO  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais simplement rappeler que, comme l'a déjà dit l'hônorable  délégué de la France, nous avons déjà adopté vne résolution od figurent des paragraphes qui ont la  meme signification que ceux que le représentant du Sénégal voudrait voir incluré dans le texte ac-  tuellement à l'étude. De toute façon, ceux qui liront ce document constatéront bien - n'y trouvant  plus le nom du Portugal - qu'il y a eu une évôlution, ‘que les choses ont changé, Nous ne  voyons dono pas la nécessité d'inclure iol des paragraphes qui feraient double emploi avec des dis-  positions qui ont déjà êté votées par cette ‘assemblée à une très grande majorité. Je vous reiner-  cle, Madame la Présidente,
293. The PRÉSIDENT:  Thank you. The delegate of Algeria has the floor.
294,1 M, DERRADJI (Algérie). -  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je pense que mon ami le représentant du Sénégal retiréra sa  ; prôposition après 1' explication que je vais lui donner. ‘
294, 2 La résolution en question est la résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR: 19 qui a êté adoptée loks dé'la  trentième séance ‘plénière et qui se rapporte au point'12:1, c'est-à-dire au point relatif à la paix  et à l'élimination du éolonialisme ; elle figurera, je pense, dans le recueil des résolutions, soit  avant, soit après la résolution que nous‘allons adopter tout à l'heure. De cé fait, les choses db-  ront. claires, Merci, Madame la Présidente. - ' : :
295, "The PRESIDENT: Ki a  Thank you. The delegate of Senegal has the floor. ’
296, M, DIENE (Sénégal). - +  Madame la Présidente, devant l'insistance: du délégué: de l'Algérie, ma délégation s'incline,  mais alle voudrait en tout état de cause qu'il soit clairement indiqué que notre proposition était  basée sur le désir de voir la Conférence générale marquer le coup en ce qui concerne le proces-  sus de décolonisation actuellement en cours au Portugal, dans une série de paragraphes qui se  seraient situés après la condamnation de l'Afrique du Sud et de la Rhodésie ; ; je pense que cette  façon de procéder eût été beaucoup plus claire ét c'est la raison pour laquelle ma délégation a pro-  posé l'inclusion de ces deux amendements. Mais, compte tenu de ce qui a été dit par le reprêésen-  tant de l'Algérie, ma délégation retire l'amendement proposé.
297. M. DERRADII (Algérie) (Président du Groupe de travail), -  Je remercie le délégué du Sénégal dè sa compriéhensién,’
298, “The PRESIDENT:  Thé delegate of Zambia has the floor,
299, Mr, LOMBE (Zambia): ; -  Thank you, Madam President. I was merely going to make another appeal to my gocd friend  of Senegal, but'as he has withdrawn his proposal, I really wish to congratulate him for his under-  standing, We are all aware of the serfousness of the matter, but we agree with the Chairman of  the Working Group that this particular subject has received sufficient attention. So we had better  not pass more resolutions just for the sake of resolutions, But «gain, I thank him for his under-  standing. .
300, 1. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. - ‘The proposal is withdrawn and we have completed Part IL,
300,2 Ladies and gentlemen, it is half past six, Since we have a night session, we have to decide  how to go on. Taking into account the heavy load of work before us, I would like to submit 4 pro-  posal for your consideration, We could contir‘ie out deliberations until‘? p.m,, have a night  meeting at 9. o'clock and close the Conference tomorrow morning, In fact, I think that there is  no other way to finish the Conference by tomorrow noon. Agreed,
300, 3 We will proceed to Part II, paragraph 16." The delegate of the Ukraine has the floor.
301; T- H B.A,  KPABEI (Ÿkpañhoxes Conercxax Couvanucruyecxan Pecnÿ6mura}  Moe 3amevanue, TOP. fipeaceaatens, OTHOCHICA TONBKO x PYCCKOMY TeXCTy: NyHKT.15 saxanux-  Baercs CNOBOM "H@3ABHCHMOCTb", "pacoaas He3ABHCHMOCTL", aro, OueBHAHO, omx6xa, 4 npomy ato  NpHBECTH B COOTBETCTBUE C Opurhtanom. BHAHMO, "pacOnas HeHaBHCTb" Ha "HeTepnumocts", Bna-  rokapp Bac.
(301) Mr, KRAVETS (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic} (Translation from the Russian}:  My remark, Madam President, refers only to the Russian (ext. , Paragraph 15 end) with the word  independence", ":4clal independence’, This is obvioubly a mistake and I ask for it to bé drought into”  " lne with the original. It should ¢bviously be "racial hatred" or intolerance". Thank you:
302, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The Russian version will be corrected. The delegate of the Netherlands has the  floor.
303, Mrs, KLOMPE (Netherlands):  Madam President, I would like to propose an amendment to paragraph 1 15, by adding at the  end, after "and all other ideologies which inspire ‘national or racial hatred", the words "and viola-  tion of human rights and fundamental freedoms",  ; - . ?
304, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The delegate of the United States of America has the floor,
305, Mr, WARVARIV (United States of America): o  Madam President, I want merely to support the amendment just tabled by the distinguished  delegate of the Netherlands,
306,1 The PRESIDENT: ‘  Thank you. As there are no more amendments, I put to the vote the amendments of the  Netherlands,  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
306,2 The amendment is adopted by 54 votes to none, with 11 abstentions. Paragraph 16 is  adopted as amended.  Paragraph 16
306.3 Are there any amendments to paragraph 16? The delegate of Switzerland has the floor.
307, M, HUMMEL (Suisse), -  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je ne propose pas d'amendement, mais je vous prierai de  mettre aux voix ce paragraphe. En effet, dans mon pays, aucun moyen d'information ne dépend  du gouvernement et je suis obilgé de voter contre ce paragraphe.‘
308, The PRESIDENT: >  The delegate of the Netherlands has the floor.
309, Mrs. KLOMPE (Netherlands): > fo  Madam President, would it be acceptable for the assembly to add here also in conformity with.  paragraph 15, the words ‘ ‘and other violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms’?
310, The PRESIDENT: ‘  The delegate of the United States of America. ’
311, Mr. WARVARIV (United States of America):  Madam President, I would like to support the 5mendmént just tabled by the Netherlands,  Thank you.
312, 1 The PRESIDENT: '  If there are no more amendments, I put to the voté the amendment from the Netherlands.  (The vote was taken by show of hands),
312.2 The amendment is adopted by 50 votes to none, with 10 abstentions.
312,3 I now put t to the vote paragraph 16, as amended.  (The vote was 5 taken by show of hands, )
312,4 Paragraph 16, as amended, is adopted by 75 votes to one, with 4 abstentions,  Paragraph 17
312, 5 We will now take up paragraph 17, Are there any amendments to sub-paragraph (a)? . Sub-  paragraph (a) is adopted.
312, 6 Sub- paragraph (b) is adopted. .
312, 7 Sub- paragraph {e) is adopted.
312.8 Sub-paragraph (d). The delegate of Norway has the floor,
313, Mr, GARBO (Norway):  Madarn President, 1 should like to have a vote on that sub- “paragraph please.
314,1 The PRESIDENT:  I put to the vote sub-paragraph (d). : : ,
45 (The vote was taken by show of hands. ) ,  sis :
314, 2 Sub- paragraph (d) 18 a dopted by 52 votes to 4, with 23 abstentions,
314.3 I give the floor to the delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany,
316, Mr. PETERSEN (Eederal Republic of Germany):  Medam President, I wish to explain our vote, My delegation had to vote against this sub-  paragraph (d) because according to its Constitution, my country has not the legal means to  enforce any such boycott, Thank you, Madam President, .
316,1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I now put to the vote paragraph 17 as a whole,
316, 2 Paragraph 17 is adopted by 62 votes to none, with 27 abstentions,  Paragraph 18
316,3 Are there any amendments to paragraph 18, sub-paragraph (a)? The delegate of Norway  has the floor, Co
317, Mr, GARBO (Norway): ) .  Madam President, I request that points (a), (b) and (c) of this paragraph be voted on, Thank  you, :
318.1 The PRESIDENT:  I put to the vote sub- “paragraph (a).
318.2 Sub-paragraph (a) is adopted by 64 votes to none, with 15 abstentions.
318.3 Are there any amendments to sub-paragraph (b)? The delegate of Dahomey has the floor,
319,1 M. BOISSIER-PALUN (Dahomey). -  Merci, Madame la Présidente. L'alinéa (b) sous sa forme actuelle entraîne à notre avis un  certain nombre d'inconvénients qui ont déjà étô exposés au moment où nous avons examiné le para-  graphe 9; Je'suggbre que cet alinéa soft remplacé par un nouveau texte qui comporterait deux ali-  néas, dont le premier aurait trait aux responsabilités qui incombent directement au Directeur géné-  ral, et le deuxième à celles qui sont de la compétence du Conseil exécutif. Je donne lecture des  deux alinéas qui se substitueraient à l'actuel alinéa (b). Premier alinéa : "Prie le Directeur géné-  ral de veiller scrupuleusement à ce qu'aucune ONG ayant des liens de travail avec l'Unesco ne par-  ticipe d'une manière ou d'une autre à la politique ‘d'aparthefid et de discrimination raciale pratiquée  en Afrique du Sud et en Rhodésie et de faire rapport au Conseil exécutif", Deuxième alinéa :  "Invite le Conseil exécutif d'une part, A exclure de toute participation aux activités de l'Unesco  toute organisation non gouvernernentale qui participé sous quelque forme que ce soft à la politique  d'apartheid et de discrimination pratiquée en Afrique du Sud et en Rhodésie, d'autre part de veiller  à ce qu'aucuné subvention ne soit accordée à'des ONG qui Boutiennent la politique du gouvernement  de l'Afrique du Sud ou du gouvernement illégal de Rhodésie".
319.2 Je présente cet amendement, comme les autres, au nom de mes collègues qui ont bien voulu  me charger d'être leur porte-parole: i je pense qu'il apporte à l'alinéa (b) des précisions quant aux  mesures qui rélèvent de la compétence du Directeur général d'une part, et de celle du Conseil exé-  cutif, d'autre part, et qu'il répond en outre de façon très claire aux appréhensions que nous a ex-  posées ce matin le Sous-Directeur général adjoint. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
320. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the fldor to the delegate of Australia.
321 Mr. ANDERSON (Australia):  Madam President, I should like to have a little more time to consider the amendment which  has just been proposed, :I.had intended commenting on paragraph 18‘as in {ts present form, sub-  paragraph 18 (b) might be prejudicial to the non-governmental organizations which aid African  liberation movements operating in South Africa and/or Southern Rhodesfa, movements which we  have already agreed in paragraph 13 to support, provided they are recognized by the appropriate  regional group, that is the OAU. ! am therefore interested in - and should like to consider further -  the amendments which have just been proposed by Dahomey,
322, The PRESIDENT:
1 give the floor to the delegate of Senegal.
323,1 M, DIENE (Sénégal), -  Madame la Présfdente, ma délégation a participé à l'élaboration du texte dont le représentant  du Dahomey vient de donner lecture, Si ce texte lui paraît préférable à celui dé l'actuel paragraphe
18 {b) du projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 28, c'est parcé que ce dernier ne fait pas, entre les  ONG en cause, les distinctions qui s'imposent, Le Conseil exécutif a en effet pu constater à l'oc-
520   caslon des biudes auxquelles i)’ s'est livré au cours des annéés passées; qu'il y K des ONG'éui, - + 45  bien qu'ayant des branches en Afrique du Sud 6u entretenant des relations avec l'Aféiquè'du Sud; - -  sont défavorables à la politique d'apartheid et luttent contré cetté politique. Dans le texte que Hous  proposons conjointement avec le Dahomey, ‘11 n'est doño question qué des ONG qui partiofpent d'une  manière ou d'une autre À la politique d'apartheid, notre but étant, d'une part, d'inviter le Direc-  teur général à veiller à ce qu'aucune ONG ayant des liens avec l'Unesco ne se:rende coupable d'une  telle participation et, d'autre part, ‘d'inviter le Conseil exécutif à ne pas laisser collaborer aux '  activités de l'Unesco les CNG qui participent à ladite politique et & faire en sorté qu'aucune sub-  vention ne leur soit accordée,
323.2. Nous appuyons done fermement, pour le passgrapho 18 te), ‘1e nouveau ished proposé par  le reprôsentant du Dahomey. . . -
324. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of the Federal | Republic of Germany,
325, Mr, PETERSEN (Federal Republic of Germany]:  Madam President, if my recollection is right, the General Conference has, on previous:  occasions, passed resolutions fo-this effect, and following these resolutions, - there Was some  implementation, especially by the Executive Board and its Committee on Non- -Goyernmental  Organjzations, a procedure, which we had the impression was effective, and really had the ;,  results which are quite apparently desired by the sponsprs of this resolution as well as by the  delegate from Dahomey who is proposing amendments to thig.text, I know, Madam President,  that earlier today the Deputy’ Director-General commented especially on these paragraphs, but  I do not recall exactly whether he spoke about the consistency of the draft of these paragrapha  with previous decisions of the General Conference and the procedures, adopted following the  approval of such decisions of the General Conference, Possibly, Madam Pr esident, you could  ask the Deputy Director-General to give some explanation on this point, Thank you, Madam  President.
326. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, May I ask the Deputy Director-General to comment,
321, Mr, FOBES (Deputy Director- General);  Madam President, this morning all I did was to call the attention of the Conference to the  fact that the provisions of paragraph 18 (b) went beyond the present régime, or would be, In  effect, more stric{,than those of the present régime, whereby under a General Conference  resolution, the Executive Board has been examining the nature of relationships between non-  governmental organizations which had branches or members in South Africa or Rhodesia, and on  the basis of this General Conference resolution, authorized the Executive Board to suspend con-  sultative status with those non-governmental organizations which it found had relationships which  constituted effective support to the racialist apartheid policies of these governments, . This pro-  vision as submitted in 18 (b) went far beyond that, The new text before you, Madam President,  is a slight modification of the present practice, but on my reading of it, the effect would be the  same as the present practice, It asks the Director-General to watch and to provide information  concerning the activities of non-governmental organizations which might participate in any manner  and in such a way that they would give support to apartheid and racial discrimination policies and  to report to the Executive Board, so that it could, in effect, suspend consultative status as under  the present régime, Madam President, I am examining the text and making this interpretation  rather hastily, but it would seem to me that it does not go beyond the present arrangements now  put into effect by the Executive Board, ;
328. The PRESIDENT: € oo  Thank you. 1 give the floor to the delegate of Zambia.
329. Mr. LOMBE (Zambia): ; Ce  Thank you, Madam President, we support the new formulat(on fn two paragraphs by the  delegate of Dahomey, because we feel, first, that this formulation will help to dispel misinter-  pretation of what is meant to be given out in paragraph (d) and, sécond, wé feël that the new'for+  mulation will-be in conformity with the previous practice, which in fact was established by the  Executive Board and has been applied, And so for these two reasons, we donot see that it would ‘  cause any problem at all,  becausé the content is really still the same, No new ideas as such’  have come in, It is merely a question of presentation. Thank you. .
330. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of France.
331.1 Mme CHATEL (France). - DTS  Merci, Madame la Présidente, Je voudrais rappeler à la Conférence générale la résolution,  adoptée à la gelzldme session, qui priait le Directeur général d'entreprendre des enquêtes mir  toutes les ONG qui avajent des branches en Afrique du Sud et én Rhodésie, et le Conseil exécutif  d'étudier les résultats de ces enquêtes, Je me permettrai, Madame la Présidente, de rappeler à  la Conférence générale que le Comité des ONG du Conseil exécutif a consacré de irbs longues  séances à l'examen rigoureux du cas de toutes les ONG qui avaient des branches en Afrique du Sud
45 ou en Rhodésie, Vous vous le rappellerez d'autant plus aisément; Madame la Présidente, ‘mue vous  faigiez partie de ce Comité, et vous savez avec quelle foi et quelle recherche de'la vérité ét de la  “justice il a travaillé, Cette enqubte est presque terminée ; nous en avons déjà adopté les résultats  successivement à la dix-septibme session et au cours de l'actuelle session,
331; 2. C'eat pourquoi je orois que la rédaction proposée par le Dahomey eat plus explicite et meil-  leure que celle qui figurait dans le projet de résolution 18 O/PLEN/DR.28 ; mais jè crois aussi  qu'il est indispensable de faire référence aux travaux qui ont déjà été effectués dans l'esprit de-  mandé par la résolution. Je n'ai malheureusement pas pu noter le texte intégral de l'amendement  du Dahomey ; je souhaiterais l'avoir par écrit et je souhaiterais par ailleurs que notre collègue du  Dahomey s'effokice d'introduire cétte notion de céntinuité. - Lé travail est fait ; il faut peut-être  demeurer vigilant et il faut que le Conseil exécutif poursuive son étude, mais je ne pense pas qu'il  y ait Meu de recommencer tout le travail qui a déjà été accompli. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
332. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Ethiopia,
333. Mr,'HABTE (Ethiopia): 10  Madam President; thrèé ‘small remarke, Firstly, ‘I agree with the delegate of France that  the Executive Board's Comrhittée on -NGOë hae doné a tremendous amidunt of ‘work, for which  we are grateful; that'18 humber ore, Number two, those members of thé Executive Board who  served on thé NGO Cominhittee will remember the uphill fight that it Kds sometimes had to’iraple-  ment and executé this deeislon, It would thiéréfore seem to us, thirdly; tha the fôérmülation  proposed by Dahomey has à decidedly political and’psycholdgical argament behind it'and that it  should be supported, makirig the ‘stand of the General Conference clear and unequivocal; that  this decision will have to be continued, I would therefore vote for the amendment ds proposed  by Dahoméy.
334. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Togo.
335.1 M, AGBLEMAGNON (Togo). -  Madame la Présidente, j'apporte ici, comme mon collègue du Conseil exécutif, mon témoi-  gnage. Eifectivement, avant l'intervention de la représentante de la France, j'allais insister sur  la notion de continuité et rendre hommage au-trävail du Conseil,
335.2 J'appuie aussi ce que vient de dire mon ami M, Habte, de l'Ethiopie, sur la'difficulté que
1e Comité des ONG et le Conseil tout entier ont rencontrée lorsqu'il a fallu appliquer la résolution  mentionnée tout à l'heure par la'déléguée de la France. -
335,3 D'autre part, ayant eu Ja grande chance d'appartenir moi-même à de noinbreuses organisa-  tions non gouvernementales, j'ai pu me rendre compte cette fois-ci, au Comité directeur de beau-  coup d'entre elles, de l'effet qu'a produit l'application de cette résolution de la Conférence géné-  rale et aussi de l'impact, voire de la gène, qu'ont provoqués les enquêtes du Conseil exécutif. C'est  pour cela que la rédaction de l'alinéa (b) suggérée par M. Boissier-Palun mé paraft constituer une  amélioration en ceci que Ja résolution n'est plus vague, qu'elle nie condamne plus vaguement ; ‘elle  n'a plus l'allure d'un procès d'intention ; c'ést au fond la responsabilité nommément désignée de  chaque ONG qui est en question, Il est en effet fait mention de la participation à la politique de ra-  cisme ot au soutien au régime 'raciste ; par conséquent, chaque ONG pourra 'tairé sôn acte dé cons-  cience pour savoir dans quell mesure elle est effectivement coupable d'une telle participation.  Tandis que la formule précédemment adoptée, je m'excuse dé le dire, et de le dire bien haut, parce  que je défends aussi les ONG, avait quelquefois donné malencontreusement l'illusion que toutes les  ONG Etaient mises dans le même sac, Je trouve donc cette clarification de l'aiinéa (b) très heu-  reuse,
336. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Australia.
337. Mr. ANDERSON (Australia):  Thank you, Madam President, Having now had an opportunity to look more closely at the  text of the amendment proposed by Dahomey, I belfeve that it redolves the difficulties which I  saw In the original formulation of paragraph 18 (b), and I would like to express my support for  the amendment proposed by Dahomey, Thank you,
338. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Cuba,
(339) Mr. LE RIVEREND (Cub) (Trangaiién fiom the Spanish): Le  Many thanks, Madam President. Thé'foitüla proposed by the delegate of Dahomeyÿ seems to us,.  indeed, to be mugh clearer, This Is, first of all, because it does not give responsibility té Unesco In  excess of ils possibilities but assigns to the non-governmental ôrganizations, on the dther hand, the  responsibility incumbent upon them as regards application of the principle of the fight against racism, As  has already been stated, moreover, the Executive Board and Unesco in general have carried out activities  in connexion with this problem, If the formula proposed by Dahomey is accepted, the action taken so far  will be strengthened, the question can be given more searching considerstion and the problem placed  within the çontext to which it really belongs, Many thanks. :
340. The PRESIDENT; | So  Thank you, I give the floor to the délegate of the Federal Republic of Germany,
341. Mr. PETERSEN (Federal Republic 6f Germany); oo  Thank you, Madam President, I also want to ‘support the amendment proposed by the  delegate of Dahomey.
342, The PRESIDENT: ; BN  Ladies dnd gentlemen, there is only one améndment, supported by a great number of  delegates. The délégate of the United States of America,
343, Mr, WARVARIV (United States of America): ;  Thank you, Madam President, [ would also just like to say that the amendment proposed by  the distinguished delegate of Dahomey is Indeed a great improvement over the previous text, and  we have full confidence in the judgement of the Director-General, Thank you, Madam President,
344, Mt, PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Jamaica has the floor.
345,1 Mrs, WYNTER (Jamaica):  Madam President, 1 am very sorry to intervene at this point, especially since I will probably  be slightly repetitious, but I did try to attract your attention a long time ago,
345.2 Madam President, I am supporting the amendment proposed by the delegate of Dahomey,  and I feel that I must express my support orally because we were among thé or ginal éponsors of  the draft resolution in documeht 18 C/PLEN/DR. 12, and we are Very happy that Dahomey has  brought us back to the words which are used In that resolution and also to the intention that was  behind it: because without reference to the work that has been done before, including reference  to the orikinal resolution of 1970, 1 think we might be créating a host of problems for ourselves,  There is a whole question of terms; I remember, Madam President, that when we undertook that  exercise we ran into some problems of semantics because of the formulation, and these had to be  got out of the way before we could get down to the business, If we have a new text and a new  language whi¢h might arouse new and unjustified fears among the NGOs, our very favoured NGOs,  then I think that we might have a further problem in dealing with sométhing which is a continuation  of an earlier exercise, . ;
345,3 ‘May | thke this opportunity, Madam President, ‘of expressing what 1 think is generally  felt to be trué gratitude to those NGOs, which number almost all that are in association with  Unésco, for thelr ‘co-éperation ii the earlier work and for their promised continuation of co-  operation in the future, Thank you, Madam President.
346. The PRESIDENT: .  Thank you, The delegate of France has the floor,
347. Mmé CHATEL (France), - ,Ç … Coa  Merci, Madame la Pyéjidente, Pour bien soullgner la continufté de nos travaux, et pour que  nous ne donnions pas l'impression de découvrir aujourd'hui seulement cé problème, je vous pro-  pose de modifier très légèrement l'amendement proposé par le délégué du Dahomey, Je propose-  rai de dire, A la première ligne : "'Prie le Directeur général de ne pas cesser de veiller sorupu-  leusement", le reste du premier alinéa demeurant inchangé, et au deuxième alinéa: "Invite le  Conseil exécutif d'une part à continuer de récuser toute participation aux activites de l'Unesco de  toute ONG qui participe, sous quelque forme que ce soit... M, ete. Merci, Madame la'Présidente,
348. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, If there are no more speakers, I shall call on the Secretary to read the new text,
349, Le SECRETAIRE, -  Madame la Présidente, je vais lire le nouveau texte proposé par le Dahomey avec le sous-  amendement présenté par la France, Le texte se lirait comme suit;  “Prie le Directéur général de ne pas cesser de veiller scrupuleusement à ce qu'aucune organi-  sation non gduvérnementale ayant des liens de travail avec l'Unesco ne participe, d'une ma-  nière ou d'une autre, À la politique d'apartheid et de discriminatizn raciale pratiquée en  Afrique du Sud et en Rhodésie, et de faire rapport au Conseil exécutif.
45 Invite le Conseil exécutif, d'une part à tontinuér de récuser toute participation ‘aux'activités  ©. de 1"Unesco de toute organisation non gouvernementale qui participe, sous quelque forme'que  ce soit, à la politique d'apartheid et de discrimination pratiquée en Afrique du Sud et én Rho-  désie, d'autre part à veiller à ce qu'aucune subvention ne soit accordée à des organisations  non gouvernementales qui soutiennent la politique du gouvernement de l'Afrique du Sud ou du  gouvernement illégal de Rhodésie",
350, The PRÉSIDENT:  The delegate of Dahomey has the floor,
351, M, BOISSIER-PALUN (Dahomey). -  Madame la Présidente, je n'entendais pas, dans la rédaction que j'ai proposée ignorer tout ce  que le Directeur général ou le Conseil exécutif ont fait jusqu'à présent. J © ne suis donc pas opposé  À l'idée d'évoquer, ne serait-ce qu'incidemment, tout ce qui a.été fait jusqu'à présent, Mais je me  permets de me téurh'er vérs là représentante de la France, puisque nous parlons la mème langue,  pour lui dire que lorsqu'on invite quelqu'un à faire quelque chose, il vaut mieux employer une for-  mule positive qu'une formule négative ; je ne vois pas pourquoi je dirais au Directeur général : "je  vous invite àtie pas cesser de", ‘alors que mon'désir est "qu'il continue fermement de", Par con-  séquent, je ne peux pas accepter la formule qui nous est proposée, meme si l'idée qui l'inspire est  acceptable. Je crois que mon texte, tel qu'il est, n'exclut pas du tout l'idée que la déléguée de la  France veut exprimer et que, si nous n'arrivons pas à trouver une formule satisfalsante, la pre-  mière est suffisante ; jé vous demande donc, Madame la Présidente, de mettre mon texte, tel qu'il  est, aux voix,
352. The PRESIDENT:  The delégate of France has the floor,
353, Mme CHATEL (France), - :  Madame la Présidente, je suis très sensible au souci exprimé par M. Boissier-Palun. Je  proposeral au lieu de dire "ne pas cesser" d'utiliser le mot “continuer”, Il y aura une répétition,  mais tant pis ; je ne crois pas que le moment soit aux exercicès de style, ét je crois que les  choses seront claires si nous disons : '""Prie le Directeur général de continuer". Merci, Madame  la Présidente,
354. The PRESIDENT;  The delegate of Dahomey has the floor.  . - + + -
355. M, BOISSIER-PALUN (Dahomey). - .  Madame la Présidente, c'est si gentiment demandé que je ne peux qu'accepter,
356.1 The PRESIDENT: _ , ;  If there 18 no objection to the text suggested by Dahomey and supported by many other  delegates, and amended by France, it is approved.
356,2 We will not take sub-paragraph (c).
356, 3 The delegate of Belgium has the floor, on a point of order,
357, M. VAN USSEL (Belgique). -  Madame la Présidente, puis-je vous rappeler que vous aviez eu la bonté d'annoncer il y a  quelque terhps que vous comptiez suspendre la sbance à 19 heurés, Etant donné que le point 18.(c)  risque de nous entrafter dans un débat assez long, il me semble que ce serait la bonne solution.  Merci.
358,1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, You are right, I am going to adjourn the meeting.
358.2 Now I would like to inform you of our work for the night session, First, we shall finish  the draft resolution in document 18 C/PLEN/DR.28, after that we shall take up the following  draft résolutions, ‘documents 18 C/PLEN/DRs'5, 6, 7, 10 and 17. This Is the programme for  tonight, ; .
358.3 The délegate of Dahoméy has the floor,
359. M. BOISSIFH-PALUN /Dahomey) ‘ - .  - Madame la Présidente, je m'excuse, ce n'est pas pour aller À 1'eficontre de le décision que  vous venez de prendre. Je voulais simplement signaler que l'adoption des modifications que j'ai  proposées implique que le sous-titre du paragraphe 18 : "Prie le Directeur général" soit complété  par "et le Conseil exécutif", Merci, Madame la Présidente,
360. The PRESIDENT:  The meeting fs adjourned, .  The meeting rose dt 7,10 p, m,  La séance est levée à 19h, 10  Se levanta ja seslôn a las 19.10