Forty-first plenary meeting
21 November 1974 at 11,20 a. m,  President: Mrs. JOBORU (Hungary)  Quarante et unième séance plénière
21 Honbpa 1974 r. B 11 4,20 Muu,  MpeaceaaTtenr: r-xa HOBOPY (Bexrpna)  Ogre dal) EI ALI  LAB UN yay GW outs fms 1) ones!  (=) ayaa dad; aus Sl  REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE (PART 11) / RAPPORT DU COMITE DES  CANDIDATURES (PARTIE 111)/ INFORME DEL COMITE DE CANDIDATURAS (PARTE H1)/  JIOKJIAJl KOMH TETA NO KAHAHAATYPAM (UACTB I)/( JUS ull ) Clé ail iad 30
1. The PRESIDENT:  The meeting is called to order, I give the floor'to Mr, Rajaona, Vice-Chairman of the  Nominations Committee to present the Report of the Committee.
2.1 M, RAJAONA (Madagascar) (Vice-président du Comité des candidatures). - .  Madame la Présidente, j'ai l'honneur, par votre intermédiaire, de soumettre à l'approbation  de la Conférence générale la troisième partie du rapport du Comité des candidatures (18 c/113,  Partie III) où il est rendu compte des troisième et quatrième séances que le Comité a tenues res-  pectivement le vendredi 15 novembre 1974 sous la présidence de M, Ricardo Diez Hochleftner  (Espagne) et le samedi 16 novembre 1974 sous la présidence de M. Jaromir Strnad (Tchécoslova-  quie), Au cours de ces deux séances, le Comité des candidatures devait procéder à la mise au  point des recommandations relatives à l'élection, par la Conférence générale, de membres des  comités, conseils et commissions suivantes : Comité du Siège, Comité juridique, Conseil du Bu-  reau international d'éducätion, Comité directeur de l'UNISIST, Conseil international de coordina-  tion du Programme sur l'homme et la biosphère, Conseil intergouvernemental pour le Programme  hydrologique international, Comité exécutif de la Campagne internationale pour la sauvegarde des  monuments de Nubie, Commission de conciliation et de bons offices chargée de rechercher la solu-  tion des différends qui naftraient entre Etats parties à ta Convention concernant la lutte contre la  discrimination dans le domaine de l'enseignement ; il convient de noter en ce qui concerne ce der-  nier organisme, que le Comité devait procéder au remplacement de l'un des membres de la com-  mission décédé au cours de la période biennale écoulée. Je vous prie, Madame la Présidente, de  bien vouloir trouver dans lé document 18 C/113 à la page 2, la liste des pays proposés par le Co-  mité des candidatures pour faire partie des différents organes spécialisés précités de notre Orga-  nisation,
2,2 Qu'il me soit permis, Madame la Présidente, d'indiquer en outre que le Comité des candida-  tures a eu, lors de ses quatrième et cinquième séances, à examiner le projet de résolution 18 C/  NOM/DR. 1 Rev., présenté par le Libéria et la Sierra Leone et appuyé par plusieurs Etats mem-  bres, concernant l'élection des membres du Bureau international d'éducation, Ce projet de réso-  lution a fait l'objet d'un examen approfondi : plusieurs amendements et sous-améndements y ont  Été apportés et c'est le projet approuvé à l'unanimité par le Comité des candidatures qu'il est re-  commendé à la Conférence générale d'adopter dans l'annexe au document 18 C/113, Partie III,
2,3 Madame la Présidente, je m'en voudrais de terminer sans rendre hommage au nom des mem-  bres du Comité, à la haute compétence et à la grande objectivité avec lesquelles M. Hochleitner et
4 M. Jaromir Strnad, respectivement président et vico-président du Comité, ont conduit les travaux  de ce dernier. Grâce A leur fiche expérience des affairés de notre Organisation, les délibérations,  combien délicates du Comité, se sont déroulées dans les meilleures conditions et, je crois pouvoir  le dire, à la satisfaction de tous les membres, J'adresserai enfin, Madame la Présidente, au nom  du Comité, mes remerciements les plus sincères et mes félicitations les plus chaleurevses aux  membres du Secrétariat ainsi qu'au Conseiller juridique, car leur contribution active a grandement  facilité la tâche du bureau du Comité ct celle de tous ses membres, Je vous remercié, Madame la  Présidente.
3.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Vice-Chairman of the Nominations Committee for his presentation,
3.2 Ladies and gentlemén, you have heard the presentation of the Vice-President of the Nomina-  tions Committee and you have document 18 C/113, Part HI, before you. As you see the Nomina-  tions Committee decided to recommend to the General Conference the composition for the  committees, councils and commission as listed in the document, I shall now ask whether you  agree with the composition recommended by the Nominations Committee.
3.3 The delegate of Spain has the floor.
(4) Mr. PEREZ HERNANDEZ (Spain) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President, may 1 say very briefly that I have noticed that the details concerning the Executive  Committee of the International Campaign to Save the Monuments of Nubia do not appear in the Spanish  version of document 18 C/113, Part III. 1 presume that this is an omission. Thank you.
5,1 The PRESIDENT:  That is certainly an omission and it will be corrected. Thank you.  Headquarters Committee G
5,2 The recommendation of the Nominations Committee is adopted.  Legal Committee
5.3 The recommendation of the Nominations Committee is adopted.  UNISIST Steering Committee
5.4 The recommendation of the Nominations Committee is adopted.  IBE Council
5.5 The recommendation of the Nominations Committee is adopted,  International Co-ordinating Council of the Programme of Man and the Biosphere
5.6 The recommendation of the Nominations Committee 1s adopted.  Intergovernmental Council of the International Hydrological Programme
5,7 The recommendation of the Nominations Committee fs adopted,  Executive Committee of the International Campaign to Save the Monuments of Nubia
5,8 Since this is a part which has been omitted in the Spanish version of the report, I ask the  Secretary to read the list of members of the Committee recommended by the Nominations  Committee.
6. The SECRETARY: . Lo  Thank you, Madam President, The members proposed for this Committee are the following:  Brazil, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Federal Republic of Germany, India, Italy, Lebanon, Netherlands,  Pakistan, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United States of America,  Thank you, Madan President,
7.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. ‘ The recommendation of the Nominations Committee is adopted,
404   Conciliation and Good Offices Commission responsible for seeking the settlement of any disputes  which may arlsc between States Parties to the Convention against Discrimination in Education  and replacement of a deceased member.
7.2 The recommendations of the Nominations Committee are adopted.
7,3 Ladies and gentlemen, in document 18 C/113, Part III, Annex-Recommendations, there is a  resolution on item 58, 1, Election of Members to the International Bureau of Education Council,  which the Nominations Committee recommended unanimously that the General Conference adopt.
7.4 This resolution is unanimously adopted.
7.5 Ladles and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Chairman of the Nominations Committee and  all his colleagues for the excellent job they have doné. Ladies and Gentlemen, I shall now suspend  the meeting for five minutes, but I ask you to remain in the’ room, We are waiting for the Chalr-  man of the Executive Board, who will be with us in a few moments,  (The meeting was suspended at 11, 35 a, m, and resumed at 12,10 p.m. ).  PLACE AND ORGANIZATION OF THE NINETEENTH SESSION OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  LIEU ET ORGANISATION DE LA DIX-NEUVIEME SESSION DE LA CONFERENCE GENERALE  LUGAR DE CELEBRACION Y ORGANIZACION DE LA 19a, REUNION DE LA CONFERENCIA  GENERAL  MECTO NPOBEJENHA H OPTAHH3ALHA NEB#THAAUATOH CECCHH TEHEPANBHOÏ  KOH®EPEHUHH  Lpanfiisy USD sf 3,20 auld) 3, 001 0 Bast 1
8. The PRESIDENT: .  Ladies and gentlemen, now we take up item 59 of the agenda, and I give the floor to the Chair-  man of the Executive Board.  (LS ddl pada) pas, ) Chop 9B pS WI dnd 4)  CEH NY ERT POST] JRF PIS PX JC NU DA TN TIPS ya ST GEI l ue Sal SION Peas 5 0  EE WINTER URI ap Sail asc PIVEN SOL PRITULDPC A TRV POLIS LIPS NPR CR)  BI BY ep Watt aha, pleat tal) Glatt pall ge Jy USE iy  JPR PO | IPT I ALY OPE WT JOP IY DTI Ah SIFY IN [VIL FU) PUN | SC NL RFR PUP Vi RP  Lema gi plan DU pl abd gous ose ilo iY Gav (1) 7 2 Gleb Glesit BIOL wy  bY qa Jute, wl obs) GK poes wis (wv) 1 OLIVET] RON Lis pl ytd pall jr aad} Jing  Lda al pl! dee ME pW el I gl at cloud) SITE atl os Seiad pale!  cided pend 8 hlpais = Lylans Agnes BY Glog bt Ba,  pug) YE prada Js) eaten gs ‘ LS), 0 ange La5 V1 Sy 1815 5058 PERF pry | pau Gy — 1,¥  Coors Bede Pied) dj (11V1) Bian oyu Red pall jolt I  pris Bens 5 iz) plead 1 le ily (JS VI LIN ue RBI TOLL) jutall Ja hott Lal) 8 Ly — ayy  Lillo ed de dant sl) IRI, Il Ubi) le uas vo («glad ofl JI Las!  NPL FPS Ga Jp Yang 6 iS Se Lae 5 Missal) sus (fo JIL (VAY Bd) yep  Ep he LT 1 EL PCR Lys bi quan Ge TERT PR VA F'besyéliide ngeal ile dial!  Ce Wel etal) oe RE BG Lake pL alt  HOI A Vi EX WORF PE RPL on WR FFL RPI WE EET POUT PPA WN LR EE BY  om als pr I ulead) * Lal ol pére Il Sd pani) peat Jug » ble 551 NS 1]  das | BRTIPE TVS PPRTI IR WE JEMPRW FEU] IR POR LPO VY SAW TIE HIPS PRPS OV EPI 165 LI  Vip SIap00 La Wed B Se balls guid of lor ,ded Min June — ude SIR POL CALF WORN |  _. + Le Lis Les omy  Baies plat cafe dian pL) gr tabl at Le 5 pit CLS rule Lol JET eos oy — 100  RETF TIN RTI FT Une Fe 5h90 9e RIPPIN. Po À À    (aaa, 20) Vacy ple chu  (caps dique ) _ VatA gb ‘ol  ( Lusypl re) 10+ fb WU!  ( 32 ahsile Ai, Je ) Vio (pb shay!  (red vss Bee) 1101 pb wid
4 ALAIN A0 Pr patte Se WIC | II JPVIF: POR PIR TY RCT | IVA IEP NR JR TRO) LA) IRS  ok  irs pd re ins ON BARI BON JESU J L221 id) gl! Ua pl 5 40  : Land MITA ERINES  of oie plo WL Js add VU dy parse dy aly UB oe Some op Lada lod)  WEEE POF) TA ENT IE INTE PERT WARTIN CR LAS Vols à Lil af Léo TI STIR ER WERE IY  J ai VV) FV SUE URRY IY PROCS FSV LR J DELP PEA PE SS ON PC)  Cad VILE GALA C9 0 La)  pq ITS Jy lol «Las YW Jy ald res Wi fp Lad) if La VU Bt de 51 Lots  PRON Us ta LUE ler GIE IAN POUR TI PS TH TR TICS WF 0 WTR 1} TY WEF. (1  oI! (Fay Vay PAR SVT LENG JBC I gas 8 Leslie ole ¢ sSminadl gli 0m pi NI  hl) Blgdl ns Ge carplan lle cho ll ind Bob por ddl pda! Clo Le VEN Gl Lous  PASSER FUL I CIEL ILI | Farpens to RUN IER SORTIN | I IR SYS TS TPR FR TRI DH Le paie  eld) didn LE YL eld! cas bl Gi Lic  € Lab SOP das dune uP J K | IR FOPLT PV | IY DUTT SV [FY PRES PN] [067 WT | PREY: PORN JY  oI lsat go Lal yay Glandt Leb Lisys Lpsioaliy Soniye will ia ul Loi oo ol ds  peus OI gaines WOU | IVP WORN | PETON FO DUR OUIE 1 PUT AL Vas us PCY [ANPP WEST | JN PON Je  RE JR [NF PU S01] JC VET] dy prddl RPURTIEEPE FOP: JO PRUNPUY| aise HOT C] WARE RK OWT  sagas ang dis 51 = Ls YL Lath gy tautt cL  eB Lal JU VV sug Lae pve LAS gp Lad jubal) I, te Rann lil Va JT is of Lal,  JS hice pas ls (CBB opp Jo lad] jp uiadly pais) ells agai c Era opte Goad! igs)  » Bball Lady Lallol Les  PUNY. 8 PISO CR PR PORT 1 PVA IRWIN le 5 Lis 25 5 SPR TOO POPPE TEP TPR PR fl BAIL. qUY  + Ldsdy Lo Si, LS  pores $F ol 9998 on eth Beall LUA Fons Lp pme ltd pbs PLAN age Vie ie By — 40  Liss God de die ua Weed Whyalla Lod wind it oot JSlugd! oan Logie que Lia  (VN FRETPW IT | gas sas à Gt bold Ls Vly ns] yall zd cy all RTE Gy io wis  SPUR TRIS TREN Weld Boul pI by Sil wild JIBLYL «pL  pW of 6 fy A Bats) SN Shep LY rad) Jia 0, ula Bi las, Ld LIL 434  JF PRE MEE JOP PORT JPET] JF] PV IU VW le 7 55 15 (SVT ANC +++ 585 RR IVD (Le  BA Lie yb Lb hy SALE Loyyo oll ails bis gee SU, Bla ditiasd uel le das eld  al Just asp one Jolar Yad) gleam gogo pial oo Wb Il; Les VL SA L Joos
156 LS DS tre 200 GH BIS Ate ÉLe 510 pp 14 BI Po, LIAL is, Ge dada  PEON: U1 IF IN TR | Gars LUS SEE dy de hr SN JT | IV PUPP IY | I POL SN IRR POR IN TIC WT E13  ds OF Game FIL ime, V5 9 Tre oon fle GIFS Chino /p1A À 9900172 aT Lil  ; + V3 4 Vo. 00.  V roe +++ Le oh GLY LING) Jt Vin dg GLb J valait aol Uys 055 — 40 -  Lay Lagi! ob Li) ay lad] Las) Jy 0) Udy Shae Bis hemp 0 piu oY 09 (50  JURNSHN | PEI FUFTCIRIPR VE WIN TOES NEVIS Ne 1 RF: FUT DIRT ROAR IRIN JT han | JEU  ts ane iy all is I) LAS 5903 Jy pla Sahl ange £151 plo WLI 1 Itsy aliaey p LS!  FENITON) pl agé PRY WPS WITT. £ 0 IN WCE WENT Ie ES Se [FR PRAIRIE A | SUNT  a pil kant Wl pl Clas che pol! gb deny oll CY kia à /p)A ) Ti  ep mad brad) pe By ll ny Li in Lic fl BT DISS 0 (1 4) plat Sell mai! hubs YH  oo Ca Bob go Gb Teel elit i  JARS 50585 À FT IR AV PEO FR FIN P| FARES [IPP W151 0 FL J | FR Wo | PO PAR EY  Imes (YF UL apo) Bell af DM Li nyc ale Paypal i 1ps, 6e Yay post  af Eh, Go pe HAN pad | DO TPP P| oct TINT IY" | IP  fl ae 59 5 Suiza | ada! 0351 6 WLU amy Sly eka) Gall alas by sles, Ls lie — 450%  pale Jleel JIS Liga ple Lan Vip Jr ansgapdey AT U5 g050 pu op Lad ofall  RRIPYS | 550 Lug u5ltaes £09 SACI | 5 VORP I SST 1 CURRIN |
(9.1) Mr. SARRUF (Chairman of the Executive Board) (Translation from the Arable):  Madam’ President, Article IV, paragraph 9, of the Constitution of Unesco, which concerns the General  Conference, states that: "At each session the location of its next ordinary session shall be designated  by the General Conference," Furthermore, Rule 2 of the Rulés of Procedure of the General Conference,  concerning sessions of the Conference, makes the following provision: ''On the proposal of the Executive  Board, the General Conference, during its ordinary session, shall fix the seat of the next session,”  Rule 3 provides that: (1) Any Member State may {Invite the General Conference to hold a session In its
406   wrritory, The General Conference shall be informed by the Director-General of all such invitations, 41
(2) In determining the seat of the next session, the Executive 13oard and the General Conference shall  consider only those invitations that have been communicated to the Director-General at least six weeks  in advance of the opening date of the current session accompanied Ly detailed statements concerning local  facilities,
(9.2) In accordance with this latter provision, a Member State, namely Kenya, invited the General Con-  ference before 3 September 1974, to hold §ts nincteenth session (1976) In its territory fn the city of Nairobi.
(9.3) Thus, Ly virtue of the ules of l’rocedure of the General Conf rence (Section I, Rule 2} the Executive  Board is responsible for making a proposal to the General Conference with a view to fixing the seat of the  next session (in the present case, the eighteenth session, scheduled for 1976). Consequently, in view of  the Invitation extended, in accordance with the rules, by the Government of Kenya; the Executive Board  spent an entire meeting and part of a further meeting considering this invitation from every angle and then  agreed on à proposal to Le made to the General Conference on the matter In accordance with ltule 2 of  the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference.
(9.4) The meeting which the Executive Board devoted to the study of this invitation was held on Tuesday,
1 October last. The summary record of the meeting shows that all the members of the Board who spoke  in the debate - 30 in all apart from Mr. Muka, thé member of the Executive Board from Kenya, who added  some useful information further to the official written invitation - thanked the Government of Kenya for  its gracious invitation and warmly welcomed it.
(9.5) It was stated by members of the Board and also by the Director-General and his representative in  their reports that the General Conference had already held a number of sessions in five Member States:  Mexico, 1947 (in Mexico City);  Lebanon, 1948 (in Beirat);  Italy, 1950 (in Florence);  Uruguay, 1954 (in Montevideo);  India, 1956 (in New Delhi).  It was further stated that for twenty years the General Conference had consistently held its successive  biennfal sessions at the Headquarters of the Organization in Paris,
(9.6) Those members of the Board who took part in the debate also referred to the many advantages which  would stem from an acceptance of the invitation by the Government of Kenya, the main ones being as  follows: (1) The General Conference has never before been held in an African Member State and in agree-  ing to meet in Kenya the Conference would be extending a greeting to African Member States and placing  on record its esteem for them, for their loyalty to the ideals of the Organization, for their overriding con-  rern to participate In drawing up its programmes, financing its budget and executing its projects, The  African members of the Board said how proud they would be if the forthcoming session of the General  Conference were held on the continent of Africa. (2) The holding of the next session of the General Con-  ference in Kenya would provide a valuable opportunity for Member States, and, in particular, the major  contributors to the Organization's budget, to become directly acquainted on the spot with the great  advantages accruing to African countries from the programmes of Unesco and with the Organization's  efforts to promote all-round development on the African continent, This, to some extent at least, would  give effect to the constant concern of the Executive Board, through its Special Committee, to facilitate  visits by members of the Board in order to enable them to familiarize themselves with Unesco's activities  in the field and to gather facts which enable the Board to evaluate such activities within the framework of  its special responsibility for supervising the execution of the programme, (3) The holding of a session  of the General Conference in one of the Member States away from the Organization's Headquarters in  Pai is for the first time in 20 years would provide a rare opportunity to acquaint the world with Unesco,  its philosophy and {ts practical activities, This is also one of the subjects with which the Executive Board,  in co-operation with the Secretariat, is concerned in its official and semi- official meetings to ensure that  the image of Unesco projected by the mass media and by peoplé in general is a true one which is in harmony  with this international co-operative endeavour in the most noble field ot co“éperation and the most closely  related to man - namely the mind spirit &nd progress of humanity, (4) The holdihg of the eighteenth  session of the Getieral Conference in Kenya would enable members of delégations to beéome acquainted  with the ancient cultural heritage of Africa and with its modern development and this would facilitate mutual  understanding and esteem between cultures while, at the same time, each culture would retain its authen-  ticity and its inherited values.
(9.7) In view of all these and other considerations, the members of the Board were in general  agreement that the invitation from the Government of f Kenya should be highly esteemed and should  be accepted with gratitude, ;
(9.8) Sôme members weré anxious to raise questions In order to clarify ceriain practical issues  and it was stated in reply that in Nairobi there was à new Centre equipped with all modern facilities  for the holding of international conferences such as the recent joint session of the International  Monetary Fund and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development which was attended  by about 1, 000 delegates and lasted ten days, Moreover the United Nations Cuvironmental Pro-  gramme has set up its Headquarters In Nairobi.
(9.9) With regard to the cost of the Conference, the representative of the Director- General stated  that the figure shown In 18 C/5 for thé General Conference in 1976 (ramely 864, 000 doMars) 15 an  estimate on the basis of the convening of the eighteenth session of the General Conference in Parls  and on the basis of its being organized along lines not significantly different from those of the  present session. This figure has been adjusted to allow for increases due to inflation a d to the  exchange rate of one dollar equal to 4.80 francs, to the use of Chinese; as a result of these factors, -
407   +1 the sum shown in document 18 c/s, that is to say 864, 000 dollars, hae risen to 1,230, 000 dollars.  If the General Conference accepts the Executive Board's proposal that the eighteenth session of  the General Conference be held in Kenya, it will be necessary to take into co:sideration another  sun not shown in document 18 C/5 Rev., to be added to the sura of 1,230,000 dollars; this addi-  tional sum totals 1, 650, 000 dollars,
(9.10) The members of the Board discussed ways of raising this sum (that {e to say the additional  sum of 1,650, 000 dollars) while bearing in mind the fust that the travel costs of the delegations of  Member States close to Kenya in Africa, Asla and the Middle East would be less than the cost of  their travelling to Paris, In this financial discussion they had thé benefit of clarifications provided  by the Director-General and his representative and they reached agreemant on a proposal to be  put before the General Conference that the invitation from Kenya to hold the elghteenth session  of the General Conference fn Nairobi be accepted on the understanding that no additional expendi-  ture would be borne by the Organization's budget over end above the figure shown In the document
(18 C/5 Rev. 2) and recommended the General Conference to open a special account for the nine-  teenth session to which would be credited the appropriations set aside for the nineteenth session  and also any grant from the Government of Kenya after negotiation with the Director-General  and any other sum that might be contributed as a donation,
(9.11) On this basis, at its meeting held on 8 October 1974, the Executive Board as a whole  adopted the draft decision before it which appears in the document as 95 EX/Decfsion 7.2. lam  pleased to submit the decision to the General Conference on behalf of the Executive Board with  the Board's recommendation that it be approved.
(9.12) That 1s all I have to say about what the Executive Board has done. However, after the  decision which I have submitted to the General Conference had been adopted by the Board, a further  draft decision modifying this decision was submitted and I shall leave the task of introducing these  two texte to the Secretary of the General Conference, Mr, Stepanek, Thank you, Mr. President,  thank you ladies and gentlemen.
10. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of the Executive Board, I give the floor to the delegate of Kenya, the  first speaker on my list.
11.1 Mr. MWIRICHIA (Kenya):  Madam President, Mr, Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr. Director-General, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure and honour for me, on behalf of my Government,  to have the opportunity to make this statement on my Government's invitation to Unesco to hold  the nineteenth session of the General Conference, in 1976, in our capital city of Nairobi, I wish  also to express my deep appreciation to the Executive Board for having accepted my country's  invitation by acclamation. Thet, Madam President, was a true gesture of goodwill and a demon-  stration of brotherliness among the peoples of the world, I also wish to thank the Chairman of  the Board for the encouraging statement he has just made.
11,2 Madam President, distinguished delegates are aware that sessions of the Unesco General  Conference have been held in most other continents except Africa. Although the circumstances  were different in the past. we do feel that Africa's continued active participation in all Unesco  affairs would meri: the honour fmplicit in being host to the nineteenth session of the General  Conference. We are convinced that the practice of holding General Conferences in various parts  of the world is a healthy one and that {t may be found to be one of the effective means of enhancing  mutual knowledge and understanding among the peoples of the world. We believe that this practice,  if encouraged, could yield positive results towards the declared goals and aims of this Organization.
11.3 It is in this spirit, Madam President, that my Government decided to invite the nineteenth  session of the Unesco General Conference to Nairobi. The President of the Republic of Kenya,  H.E, Jomo Kenyatta, himself both an educationalist and a promoter of science and culture, has  always taken a keen interest in the activities of Unesco and believes that this Conference will see  fit to accept his invitation. His telegrams to you, Madam President, and to ihe Director-General,  bear witness to the importance he and the people of Kenya attach to this invitation.
11.4 Allow me, Madam President, to echo the words of my Permanent Secretary during his  policy statement at the beginning of this Conference. ''We sincerely hope that this distinguished  gathering will resolve that the 1976 session be held in Kenya. Your decision to this effect would  enable the 1976 session participants to share with Kenyans and others the pleasure of being together,  to share the colourful and diverse cultures of Africa, to view and enjoy our unspoiled heritage  and wildlife, By so doing the delegates of Unesco Member States would understand us better and  advance the spirit of brotherhood and peace throughout the world. "
11.5 Iam pleased, Madam President, that you have afforded me this opportunity to once more  repeat my Government's invitation to you and to this august gathering. Thank you.
12, The PRESIDENT: _
1 thank the delegate of Kenya, and I give the floor to the delegate of Ghana,
13.1 Mr, SEDDOH (Ghana): .  Thank you, Madam President. Having listened to the Chairman of the Executive Board, I  must say that he has made our task easy. And as I take the floor, I would like to join my colleague
408   from Kenya in asking this august body to adopt the draft resolution before us by acclamation, I  am particularly happy that the long list of sponsors goes beyond mere parochial considerations,  thus underlining the importance which we all attach to this subject.
13.2 Madam President, the eightéenth session of the General Conference has almost come to an  end, and this paves the way once more for our next meeting to be held in two years time, ‘ Over  the years, we have bocome 80 much accustomed to meeting in Paris that as we perform the closing  rituals at the end of its session, we merely say "au revoir" to Paris: We do so because we have  all come to look upon Paris as the de facto permanent seat of the General Conference. This year,  however, the indications are that we may have to leave here after taking a decision on a new venue  for our nineteenth General Conference, Our closing ceremony, therefore, would be different  from what it has been in the past, because the General Conference has been seized of an invitation  from Kenya to hold the next General Conference in Nairobi. Madam President, the Kenyan invi-  tation in accordance with Rule 3.1 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, and the  business we have to perform today at this very hour, are backed by Rule 2, as has been outlined  by the Chairman of the Executive Board.
13.3 Madam President, since Unegco moved into permanent headquarters as we have just been  told, this is the first time that it is being called upon to hold its General Conference otitsidé Paris.  The last tinie when this happened was about some twenty years ago. The Kenyan proposal is  therefore nothing new, since the General Conference has been coñvened before, and here again,  I repeat what the Executive Board Chairman has just told us, the Conference has been convened  in Mexico, Lebanon, Uruguay, Italy and India,
13.4 Perhaps, Madar President, at this point, it will be appropriate to acknowledge our ihdebted-  “ess to our host country for all that it has done and continues to do for our Organization. With a  change of venue we shall certainly miss Paris, "la ville de la lumière", with its Warmth and hos-  pitality, and which has become the staging ground fer Uneeco's operational activities through the  world in the pursuit of its missions.
13.5 Madam President, we have heard a lot about the need for decentralization during this Con-  ference. The time has now come for us to translate our words into action, The draft resolution  before us has this merit, that it seeks to bring Unesco closer to the Third World. In spite of the  efforts being made in the diffusion of culture, which we all recognize to be an essential element  for a better understanding among all peoples, in spite of Unesco's efforts to spread knowledge,  nowhere is this need felt more than in the developing world, It is, for example, one thing to pass  resolutions in Paris condemning colonialism and imperialisin, apartheid and racialism, and it is  quite another thing to view these evils at work at close quarters. The ordinary man in our towns  and villages does not only want to learn of the good of Unesco, he want also to see Unesco at work.  We want him to believe that Unesco id not just anothèr organization for the privileged, but one  which is committed to bringing the light to thé needy, to which all countries, irrespective of their  stage of development, can lay equal claim.
13.6 Madam President, the distinguished delegate of Kenya in his contribution to the general policy  debate on 23 October told us that the jholding of the next General Conference in Nairobi would not  be an honour to Kenya alone, but to the whole of Africa. Indeed, I would even go further to say  that it will be a fitting tribute to the developing world, having recently elected one of its illustrious  sons to the high post of Director-General.
13.7 Madam President, the delegate of Kenya has amply justified his country’s claim to hold the  next Conference; and there is really nothing much I can now tell you which you have not learnt  already. At the risk of repeating arguments already advanced, suffice it to say that, having had  the foretaste and experience of what such conferences entail - I wish to refer here to the annual  World Bank Conference, the United Nations Meeting on Nature and Natural Resources, the World  Confederation of the Teaching Profession, the World Boy Scouts Conférence; the International Con-  ference of Christian Churches, to mention just a few, and not forgetting, of course, the United  Nations Conference on Trade and Development to be held in 1976, there can be no shadow of doubt  regarding Nairobl's capability of and suitability for holding the nineteenth session of the General  Conference, which, to quote once again the Kenyan delegate, "would advance the spirit of brother-  hood and peace among all peoples of the world", Ihave deliberately refrained from dwelling on  other facilities which Nairobi offers for this Conference: its accessibility, its climate, its Infra-  structure, all of which have been sufficiently advertised elsewhere in connexion with other projects.
13.8 Madam President, Kenya is not unaware of the problems generally involved in hosting a  Conference of such importance in terms of practical administrative arrangements, logistics,  costs, ete. On the last point, which would appear to be a determining factor, the Kenyan delegate  has emphasized, and in fact assured us, that notwithstanding the additional costs to them, they  feel compelled to do everything possible to bring about a greater understanding between peoples  of various cotutries and origins. In fact, Madam President, no saérifice is too great when it comes  to contributing vne's share fn promoting the aims and objectives of Unesco in which we all believe.
13,9 Madam President, the draft resolution before us contains all the necessary built-in checks  to ensure that no matter what happens, the nineteenth General Conference will take place, We  have just been told that it has the blessing of the Executive Board, and I would call on this Confer-  ence to approve it by acclamation. Thank you, Madum President.
4 14. The PRESIDENT:  Thank'you, I give the floor to the delegate nf Belgium,
15,1 M. VAN USSEL (Belgique). -  Madame la Présidente, ma délégation a pris note avec grand intérêt du projet de résolution  qui figure dans le document 18 C/95, ainsi que de l'amendement présenté par plusieurs pays el qui  est reproduit dans le document 18 C/PLEN/DR,23, C'est avec un très grand plaisir que la Belgique  votera en faveur de la proposition de tenir la dix-neuvième session de la Conférence générale à  Nairobi. Mon gouvernement a été particulièrement sensible à la généreuse invitation du gouverne-  ment de la République du Kenya d'organiser dans sa capitale notre prochaine Conférence, La  Belgique félicite les autorités du Kenya de cette heureuse initiative, qui permettra à toutes les  délégations de se rendre compte des remarquables progreu réalisés dans ce pays depuis la procla-  mation de son indépendance sous la conduite d'un chef d'Etat aussi éclairé que M. Jomo Kenyata,  En outre, la Conférence pourra discuter avec succès des problèmes du développement dans les  domaines de l'éducation, de la culture et de la science sur cette noble terre africaine avec laquelle  la Belgique demeure unie par tant d'affinités spirituelles, par tant de rapports fructueux de coopé-  ration et par tant de liens d'amitié.
16.2 Je me souviens d'ailleurs aveo gratitude de l'accueil chaleureux et de l'hospitalité frater-  nelle que le gouvernement de l'Ethiopie avait réservé en février 1972 aux quinze membres du Con-  seil de sécurité, lorsqu'il s'était rendu à Addis-Abéba afin d'y étudier les importants problèmes  qui se posent à l'Afrique.
15,3 A ce propos, je souscris entièrement à ce que vient de dire le distingué délégué du Ghana au  sujet de la signification des résolutions sur le racisme et la politique d'apartheid proclamées au  coeur de l'Afrique. Nous exprimons le ferme espoir que notre Organisation pourra, lors de la  dix-neuvième session de sa Conférence générale, présenter en Afrique, et plus particulièrement  a Nairobi, des rapports substantiels et encourageants sur les résultats et les progrès accomplis  en vue de l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international, et ce à la lumière de la déci-  sion historique que nous avons prise avant-hier.
15,4 Permettez-moi enfin, en ma qualité de nouveau membre du Conseil exécutif, d'assurer la  délégation du Kenya de ma compréhension et de ma coopération totales lorsque cette question vien-  dra en discussion lors de la 97e session. Je vous remercie, Madame la Présidente.
16. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Belgium and I give the floor to the delegate of the United Kingdom.
17,1 Mr, BIRRELL (United Kingdom):  Madam President, as everybody knows, the United Kingdom has very long-standing and close  relations with Kenya, We are therefore very happy that the Government of Kenya has addressed  the invitation to hold the nineteenth session of the General Conference in Nairobi. How appropriate,  Madam President, it will be if the first General Conference after the election of the first African  Director-General should be held in Africa, We shall be very happy to vote for the draft resolution.
17,2 In saying this, however, I should perhaps add that our interpretation of paragraph 9 is that  in line with the Executive Board's recommendation, to which the Chairman of the Executive Board  drew our attention and which appears in paragraph 4 of 18 C/95: we would understand that there  should be no additional costs to the Regular Budget.
17.3 Madam President, I am very pleased to say that, on this understanding, the United Kingdom  will be happy to vote for the draft resolution, Thank you, Madam President,
18. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of the United Kingdom, and I give the floor to the delegate of Spain.
(19.1) ‘Mr. PEREZ HERNANDEZ (Spain) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President, I should like to express very briefly our full support for the proposal by  the Government of Kenya inviting Unesco to hold the nineteenth session of its General Conference  in Nairobi,
(19. 2j We: support the proposal for two reasons. The first, Madam President, is our friendship  for the African countries; the seéond Îs that, as sessions of the General Conference have been  held In American, Evropesn and Asian countries, the desire expressed hy the Government of Kenya
410   that the next session should be held on the African continent is, in our view, fully justified. Thank  you, Madam President,
20, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Jamaica.
21,1 Mr. WYNTER (Jamaica):  Madam President, when the delegate of Ghana spoke and presented the resolution which we  were delighted and honoured to sponsor (18 C/PLEN/DR, 23), he announced to the Conference that  he would like the resolution to be adopted by acclamation, Some of ue took that to mean, Madam  President, that we should acclaira immediately, and we did, And therefore Madam President,  I am surprised that we are having a debate on it, because I thought we had adopted it by acclama-  tion. Moreover, all those who have spoken have in fact indicated that they would have gone along  with the acclamation.
21,2 Madam President, I simply want to say that the draft resolution sets out the financial arrange-  ments very clearly and the first part of it took us a little further than the Executive Board had  been able to go. Since then, the Conference has been told and now knows to a great extent what  the Government of Kenya is prepared to offer, This is set out in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4,
21.3 Then, to the mind of the delegation of Jamaica, paragraph 7 1s very important, It calls  upon the Conference to set up a special account for the Conference to which would be credited the  relevant provisions in document 18 C/5 which we are going to adopt, we hope, in the appropriation  resolution in Part I, Chapter I, which deals with the Conference.
21.4 And then, from abundance of caution, the resolution goes on in paragraphs 8 and 9 to invite  the Director-General to carry out further investigations and to examine further details and invites  the Board to examine these with him and to take the necessary steps to have the matter well  arranged and the finances provided.
21.5 And then the last clause, Madam President, is again due to an abundance of caution, para-  graph 10, authorizes the Executive Board, should any unforeseen circumstances arise - and these  would include the failure to make proper financial arrangements (because at this stage that is  unforeseen) and any other calamities - to prevent the Conference from being held in Nairobi, to  shift the site to Paris,
21,6 Therefore, Madam President, it seems to me and to our delegation that all the elements of  caution, all the elements are there for honouring a country which has honoured us - I think it is  Kenya which is honouring the Conference by inviting us and not the Conference honouring Kenya.  We can do some amount of honour by adopting this resolution by acclamation to show our unanimity.  Thank you, Madam President,
22, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I have no more speakers on my list. The delegate of India has the floor.
23.1 Mr, DAYAL (India):  Madam President, India is very happy to have been among the sponsors of this resolution,  and we have further noted with great appreciation the statement made by the distinguished leader  of the Kenyan delegation and also the statement he has made on behalf of President Kenyatta.
23.2 It is our opinion that we should accept the very grecious and kind invitation given by the  Kenyan Government, and in this connexion, as has been pointed out by the distinguished delegates  from Ghana and Jamaica, the 18 C/PLEN/DR, 23 resolution covers all the elements required in  relation to the organizing of this Conference. We wholeheartedly agree with the proposal that the  resolution should be adopted by acclamation. Thank you.
24, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Ethiopia.
25. Mr, HABTE (Ethiopia):  Madam President, this is merely to add the support of my delegation what has already been  sald. This resolution is, in fact, slightly too cautious for the honour that the Government of  Kenya has done to this plenary session, and I would very much hope that you will now ask the  plenary meeting to pronounce its acceptance by acclamation. Thank you.
26,1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. If there are no more speakers, we shall take up document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 23,  which contains the draft resolution submitted by 33 countries and which has been supported by  several speakers. This draft resolution replaces the resolution contained in document 18 C/95  in its entirety.
26.2 I propose to the General Conference that it adopt the draft resolution by acclamation,  (Applause)
41 26.3 The draft resolution in document 18 C/PLEN/DR, 23 has been
26.4 Thank you, The meeting fs adjourned.
412  adopted by acclamation.  The meeting rose at 12, 55 p,m,  La séance est levée à 12h, 55  Se levanta la seslén a las 12, 55
3aceganxe 3aKpuiBaeTcA:B 12 4,55 sun.  bib 830 605 320 aI BLY 5 lsd) Cond)