Twelfth plenary meeting
24 October 1974 at 10,15 a.m,  President: Mr. Le RIVEREND (Cuba)  Douzième séance plénière
24 octobre 1974, à 10 h, 15  Président : M, LE RIVEREND (Cuba)  Duodécima sesiôn plenaria
24 okTñÔpa 1974 rona B 10 yac.15 MHH.  Mlpeaceaarens: r-5x Jle PHBEPEHA (Ky6a)  FTI PARI FRR]  boat LAVE JS ompis/ 0B) ve  ( WS) whey of sed! 2 pus)!  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued) /DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)/  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuaclén)/OBCYX HEHHE BONPOCOB OBNMEH  NOAUTHKH (npononxenxne) (ali) tla! dled 3.5L
(1,1) Le PRESIDENT. - (Traduit de l'espagno!. )  Messieurs les délégués, Mme la Présidente m'a prié de la remplacer pendant que se pourauit la réu-  nion du Bureau de la Conférence générale. L'honneur qu'elle m'a ainsi fait m'est d'autant plus sensible que  c'est la première fois que j'ai l'occasion de présider une séance plénière d'une organisation aussi pre"  gieuse que l'Unesco.
(1,2) Je donne d'abord là parole à S. Exc, M, Andreas Mikellides, chef de la délégation de Chypre.
2.1 Mr. MIKELLIDES (Cyprus):  Mr. President, could you please convey to the President of the General Conference our hearti-  est congratulations on her election and the expression of our full confidence and belief that under  her able chairmanship, this session of the General Conference will be a success, I would also like  to add how very happy we are at the admission to our Organization of the new Members and Asso-  ciate Members to which we extend our sincerest greetings,
2.2 My country has ever looked to Unesco and the ideals which this prestigious Organization re-  presents as providing the gulding principles and criteria for the social and culturel premotion of  our people. This fact is justified by the achievement of this Organization in the flelds of education,  science and culture. We further believe that these achievements serve a higher purpose, the cul-  tural and spiritual unification of mankind, an ideal which can only be achieved through the avenues  of education and culture. In this connexion, our faith in Unesco is a faith in the future.
2.3 The participation of my country in the present General Conferénce of Uneséo acquires particu-  lar significance in view of the special conditions that have been imposed upon Cyprus, which, we  believe, have a bearing on peace not only on a local, but also on an international scale. All dis-  tinguished members present are undoubtedly aware of what has been happening in Cyprus since
20 July last, These events cannot be pushed aside as being of regional significance or as being the  outcome of differences between neighbours, They are of vital concern tô every one of us because
12 they directly affect, in a negative way, the principles and moral foundations upon which our com-  monwealth of nations and all oùr international institutions are built,
2.4 The invasion and consequent occupation of Cyprus by the Turkish forces have had such cata-  strophle effects upon the country and such far-reaching implications that I feel myself obliged to  refer to them in more explicit terms. Despite the atternpts to style the invasion as having the  character of à "police action", or as emanating from the provisions of the Treaty of Guarantee,  it is clear that no justification whatéver can bé derived from thesè sources. It is obvious that we  are in the presence of an arbitrary act of aggression whereby the sovereignty of Cyprus, a Mem-  ber of the United Nations, has been violated, and this violation persists in spite of the repeated  resolutions adopted unanimously by the United Nations Security Council.
2.5 I will not deal with the political aspects of the invasion, but I feel entitled to refer to itseffects  on the educational, cultural and moral condition of our people. Lèt me refer, to begin with, to the  fact that the level of our educational and cultural development before the invasion was very high  and distinguished by a rapid rate of development, in comparison with international standards. Our  elementary and secondary system of education was fairly complete and illiteracy has long since  disappeared from our country. This system was completed by achievements in the fields of cul-  tural activity, and we could boast of a promising organization of our cultural heritage as well as  the development of original research institutions in fhe field of the human sciences. IN the compli-  cated history of Turkish-Greek relations, wé Were the first to incorporate in our historical re-  search the Ottoman sources of the history of Cyprus and to provide for their publication, because  we believed that past ethno-historical differences could only be transcended by the right approach  and comprehension of our mutual cultural traditions. Thèse achievements in the educational and  cultural field were backed by a high rate of economic development enabling our country to act as  a connecting link between the great cultural traditions which meet and merge in the sensitive geo-  graphical area of the Eastern Mediterranean, ‘
2.6 Now, education, and more particularly the education of the Greek Cypriot inhabitants, has  suffered one of the worst devastations recorded in the annals of history. The conquest of 40% of  the territory of Cyprus, which affects 70% of Cyprus's productive resources, has deprived educa-  tion of its essential means, The army of occupation has driven by force one-third of the Island's  population, about 200, 000 people, from their homes and property. Thirty-one per cent of our pri-  mary schools, 38% of our secondary schools, 25% of our technical schools and 60% of our special  schools that is, the school for the blind, the schunl for the deaf and four out of the seven schools  for mentally retarded children, are under Turkish occupation, while a great number of school  buildings are out of use because of their proximity to Turkish military posts. As a result of this
25, 000 young children of primary school age (42% of the total primary school population), and
18, 000 secondary school boys and gfvls have lost their homes and schools and are found wandering  about as refugees living in tents or under trees in the southern part of the Island. Their teachers  have had a similar fate. Nine hundred and four primary schoo) teachers, that is 41% of the tctal  teaching force, and 720 secondary school teachers have been turned Into refugees in their own  country away from their homes and schools. Schools, equipment and educational materials worth  millions of pounds have been destroyed during the invasion by fires caused by incendiary bombs  and other means. The repercussions upon our university student population abroad are equally  important, inasmuch as the invasion left 50% of our university students financially destitute and  unable to continue their studies. In this respect I would like to thank all those governments which  tcok an interest in their predicament, and thus to some extent relieved their plight.
2.7 These facts are plainly corroborated by the recent report of the Secretary-General of the  United Nations, Dr. Waldheim, covering the period between 3 and 15 October, which gives details  on the condition of over 200, 000 Cypriot refugees, an extract of which I quote verbatim:  "It is estimated that there are now approximately 156, 000 Greek Cypriot refugees in the  care of local authorities, A further 30, 000 are displaced but self-supporting. Some 10, 500  live in poor accommodation, 17, 000 continue to live in schools and must be given alternative  accommodation ff the schools are to reopen, Almost 100, 000 live in overcrowded conditions.  The circumstances of many of the refugees will worsen considerably with the onset of winter.  The conditions of some 2,000 Greek Cypriots living in central locations in areas under  Turkish control give cause for concern - the condition of another 8,000 Greek Cypriots who  continue to live in the Karpas area (again under Turkish control) has deteriorated.  Little 1e known of the conditions under which some 2, 500 Greek Cypriots continue to live  in the villages of Kyrenia area, but reports indicate that their situation is difficult.  Turkish Cypriote have started to move into a number of abandoned Greek Cypriot villages  in Famagusta district.  The physical circumstances of the Turkish Cypriots in the South under the control of the  Cyprus Government remain relatively good. Red Crescent deliveries to these areas are  continuing. ""
2,8 To summarize the facts, the Invasion, far from being a mnre police action for the restoration  of the constitutional order, as his been repeatedly claimed, had the most devastating effects on
236   the economic, educational and cultural institutions of Cyprus. We cannot, for instance, conceive 12  the reason for the destruction of 40% of the afforested land of Cyprus and the damage inflicted upon  our cultural and historical heritage, much of which still remains unattended and unprotected. In  fact, the invading troops embarked right from the start on acts of destruction, plunder and devas-  tation of the physical and cultural environment, cynically violating the principles concerning the  protection and preservation of the cultural heritage of mankind, which Unesco formulated at the  seventeenth session of the General Conference,
2.9 At the present session, the General Conference will also deal, according to Chapter 5 of the  Draft Programme for the years 1975-1976, with the question of human rights. In this important  connexion, it is pertinent to report that many of the acts of the invading troops have caused an  international outery and reaction. The policy applied by the invading army aspires to change the  ethnological composition of the Cyrpiot population, by driving out one-third of the total population  from their traditional homes and properties and settling Turkish populations in the evacuated areas.  This is a purely arbitrary measure which revives colonial methods of a most hideous nature. The  violation of human rights reaches {ts climax in the maltreatment and raping of helpless women,
2,10 The extent of the catastrophe suffered by Cyprus as a consequence of the invasion has not  left the world at large unimpressed, and it is my imperative duty to express in this forum the  deep gratitude of the people and Government vf Cyprus to all those Member States who offered and  continue to offer material and moral assistance at this tragic moment of our history. ! also want  to offer my warmest thanks to the Director-General of Unesco, Mr. René Maheu, who once again  demonstrated his unfailing Interest in the protection and preservation of the cultural heritage of  Cyprus, by taking the initiative to send a mission of experts to the Jslandas a preliminary measure  of protection. My Government sincerely hopes that Unesco will continue to take an interest, as  long as conditions created by the Invasion persist, In the protection and safeguarding of a cultural  heritage which belongs to mankind at large, and of which we are only the bearers and custodians.  In this respect we welcome the mission's recommendation to the Director-General to appoint an  expert who would assume the responsibility for the protection and safeguard of our cultural heri-  tage, meaning by this not only ancient monuments, but also categories of historical and artistic  monuments including religious buildings, collections of folkloric art, libraries and archives,
2.11 Mr. President, what I have said confirms the view I put forward earlier that in the case of  the invasion of a small country like Cyprus with a population of 600 thousand by a country of 36  million, the basic principles and fundamental prerequisites for international peace and coexistence  have been grossly violated and the entire structure of International institutions and relations has  been undermined, I believe it is no exaggeration to describe the invasion as a retrogression in  man's historical course at a time when the world has entered on a period of exploration and con-  quest of outer space. I am convinced, Mr. President, that the blows received by Cyprus are es-  sentially blows against international society and that the moral and cultural destruction suffered  by our population is a loss to the cultural capital of the world.
2.12 I would like to conclude my address by expressing the wish that the tragedy of Cyprus will  be the last of 1{s kind the history of the world will have to record, and that our misfortune will not  deal a deadly blow to the faith the peoples of the world have in international co-operation and insti-  tutions. Let me affirm to you that despite the enormous damage suffered by my country, the faith  of the Cypriot people in the principles governing international relations and institutions remains  unshaken, and that we firmly believe in the re-establishment of harmonious relations and coexist-  ence with our Turkish-Cypriot brothers, with whom we have ved for centuries on fraternal terms.  We continue to believe that fn the final analysis the Cypriot case will result in a strengthening of  the principles of co-operation and coexistence. Thank you, Mr. President.
(3) Le PRESIDENT. - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Je remercie vivement S. Exc, M. Andreas Mikellides, chef de la délégation de Chypre, et je donne  la parole à S. Exc. M, N. Pazhwak, chef de la délégation de l'Afghanistan.
4.1 Mr. PAZHWAK (Afghanistan):  Mr. President, distinguished delegates, ladles and gentlemen, I should like to convey, on be-  half of the Government of the Republic of Afghanistan and members of my delegation, our sincere  congratulations upon the election of Mrs. Jébord as President of the eighteenth session of the Gen-  eral Conference of Unesco, Her election is a reaffirmation of this Organization's firm conviction  of the principles of human rights, especially the rights of women, and we consider this significant  in the light of the forthcoming International Women's Year. We are confident that under her able  leadership, we shall attain the noble objectives of this Conference,
4.2 1 would also like to express our appreciation to the retiring President, H.E. Mr. Toru  Haguiwara, for the services he rendered to the Organization during his tenure of office.
4.3 1 am delighted to see at your side Dr, Faad Sarrû/, who in addition to being the Chairman of  the Executive Board, represents the great, rich Arzb culture and philosophy. And our warm
12 greetings to Mr. René Maheu, our most distinguished Director-General, who has prepared for our  examination and deliberations three thought-provoking documents which will occupy us here for the  next few weeks.
4.4 It is with pleasure, as the Republic of Afghanistan's first Minister of Education, thatladdress  this august assembly and reaffirm my country's adhererce to the noble principles enshrined in the  United Nations Charter and to the objectives of Unesco. Asa peace-loving nation, we have and shall  continue to support the endeavours of this world organization and {ts Spzcfalized Agencies towards  the creation of a just, peaceful world in which all men shall coexist in prosperity and with dignity.
4,5 Ladies and gentlemen, July of this year witnessed the first anniversary of the Afghan Republic.  The establishment of a republican order has irnbued our people with a new philosophy of life and  has inspired directives for the attainment of aspirations in the social, cultural and economic davel-  opment of our country, under the benevolent end able leadership of our beloved President,  Mohammad Daoud.
4,6 The past year has been one of major reforms and formulation of strategies for development  in all sectors, In the field of education, our priority has been to democratize and improve the  quality of education, with particular emphasis on reforming the existing structures to meet the  needs and requirements of the country and its people, a system, Mr. President, geared to rais-  ing the standards of living of the people and ore that would enable future generations of Afghans In  all fields of life to contribute actively and constructively towards the developmen! and progress of  our nation. The task of developing such a system is colossal. hile it 18 true tnat decisions and  plans are difficult to translate into reality, we must examine past trends and ‘uture prospects,  directing our inquiry into the profounder meanings of education, so as to reassess its responsi-  bilities towards the present generation which must be prepared for the world of tomorrow. Our  ultimate aim is to view education not simply as a preparation for life, but more as a part of life:  we no longer wish to confine ourselves to a formal approach, but rather to have an educational  system which would encompass and probe all areas of life. To attain these objectives, proper  research must be conducted with a view to making the content of education and its curriculum  relevant to the learners' environment. In primary and secondary education the purpose should  not be to have students just pass exams, but rather to enhance their capacity to learn and enrich  their creativity and contribution to life. In higher education, the aim should not simply be the  obtaining or issuing of degrees, but to provide opportunities for constructive applicationof knowl-  edge gained and hence to seek it for continuous self-: nprovement.
4,7 In brief, Mr, President, in our efforts to reform our educaticnal system, we wish to provide  learners with the type of education that would enable them to analyse, tackle, and successfully  solve problems of everyday life, and thereby assure a continuity in their own development,
4.8 Our own experience and that of other developed and developing nations has revealed that edu-  cation suffers basically from the gap between the values it teaches and the goals set by society,  between its ancient curricula and the modernity of science, In the case of developing countries  such as Afghanistan, education has been handicapped, in practical terms, by inadequate equip-  ment, materials, hastily put together textbooks, the poor quality of teachers and a host of other  problems which would tax educators in the most carefully planned educational system. One thing  on which we are clear is that any concept or approach must basically be Afghan, and we are  uniquely placed to profit from past experience and shortcomings. We therafore look forward to  studying the outcome of the joint Unesco/UNDP Evaluation Mission that visited our country re-  cently, and hope that not only the Unesco /UNDP Integrated Educational Development Project, but  also other inputs to education - be they bilateral or multilateral - will provide practical and posi-  tive support to our needs and purposes,
4.9 In this connexion, we appreciate Unesco's initiative in providing Member States with high-level  expertise by way of advisory services to agsist in the formulation and preparation of policies, and  their application through appropriate programmes, We consider this approach constructive: ex-  ternal advice can be of most valuable assistance in the maximization of both human and naturalre-  sources and in the avoldance of unnecessary wastage. However, we feel that a balance must be  maintained between the various types of technical assistance, While consultants with wide experi-  ence may prove beneficial in certain instances, we feel that the avallability of long-term expert  assistance should not be ignored. More specifically, the Organization should provide the type of  assistance needed by Member States with particular regard to individual needs, Sometimes we  have seen cases of éxperts being sent out to a country for which they were poorly euited; in con-  sequence, the programmes they submitted bore little relation to the conditions and requirements  of the country they were expected to assist.
4,10 Mr. President, although requested to confine our comments to the agenda, 1 felt it irmpera-  tive to raise these points and draw the Secretariat's attention to how we view our needs. \Ve have  submitted a detailed report on "Education in Afghanistan", which should give some idea of our  efforis and achievements and our long-range objectives in the field of education.
4,11 Ladies and gentlemen, I should now ke to refer to the following documents: the Reports of  the Director-General on the Activities of the Organization for 1972-1973 (18 C/3), the Draft Pro-  gramme and Budget for 1975-1978 (18 C/5) and the Analysis of problems and table of objectives to
288   be used as a basis for medium-term planning (1977-1982) (18 C/4). I should zlso like to refer to  documents 18 C/9, 18 C/6 and 18 C/11, which contain the comments and recommendations of the  Executive Board.
4.12 My delegation strongly supports the recommendation of the Executive Board on the period-  icity of the Director-General's report, and hopes that the General Conference will adopt it, While  I commend the Director-General for the preparation of reports on activities in the past, I should  also like to comment on certain points: we are keenly aware of the crisis faced by the Organiza-  tion in 1973, owing to depreciation of the currency of the unit of account and to inflation, We also  appreciate that the convening of the third extraordinary session of the General Conference could  not be more than a temporary measure of relief leaving tha overall budgetary problems unsolved,  The actual adverse economic and monetary conditions do rot provide an opportunity for immediate  solutions, But we would certainly not like to see another extraordinary session of the General  Conference summoned in the future solely to tackle yet another recurrent budgetary dericlt set off  by causes extraneous to the Organization, My delegation is of the opinion that every effort should  be made to prevent thls happening, and we feel that Unesco should adopt the principle of "full  budgeting". Taking account of the sequence of contribution payments and the cash position of the  Organization, my delegation endorses the increase in the Working Capital Fund, and naturally, we  would welcome any financial and budgetary solutions within tie United Nations family.
4,13 Allow me now, Mr. President, to turn to some other points in the report of activities re-  garding international collaboration and the development of international ald. My delegation shares  the views of the Director-General on the crisis in International aid. In our judgement, interna-  tional co-uperation to assist the developing countries has reached a cross-rouds. We are aware  that development is a complex and varied process, and note with some concern that international  aid is quantitatively indecline, In 1971, it represented only 0.35% of the Gross National Product  of the industrialized countries, which was exactly half of the target fixed for the Second Develop-  ment Decade, The latest report of the OECD Development Assistance Committee shows that in
1972, this percentage, far from rising, dropped to 0.34%. This figure reveals that international  assistance assumes a less important place in the overall economy of the developed countries. We  therefore feel that the affluent Member States should realize their responsibilities In closing the  ever-widening gap between the developed and the developing countries by contributing more gen-  erously. It is in the best interest of the developed and richer nations of the world to assist In the  social and economic development of the developing countries and to regard such assistance as an  investment upon which they would themselves draw in the future. They must realize that partial,  sporadic, half-hearted gestures will no longer suffice and that they must take more effective and  concrete measures in promoting development efforts through international erganizations such as  Unesco, UNDP, Unicef, etc.
4.14 We are delighted that the next special session of the United Nations General Assembly in  June 1975 will examine the adjustment of the United Nations system to changes which have taken  place in the world at large. It is assumed that the United Nations system will change from within,  and I am confident that Unesco will rise to this opportunity.
4.15 I would like to congratulate the Special Committee of the Executive Board on its examination  of the following points: Unesco's contribution to peace and its tasks with respect to the elimination  of colonialism nnd racfallsm; Unesco’s contribution to the understanding of the problems of man  and his environment; Unesco's contribution to knowledge and activities with regard to the problem  of population; Unesco's method of work and activities regarding youth, including Unesco clubs;  Unesco's contribution concerning the fundamental problem of rural developraent; and Funds-in-  Trust. We trust that the Board will continue this sound practice by appointing "rapporteurs" for  the in-depth study of limited topics, chosen in advance. I would like to propose that the report of  the Special Committee of the Board on topics of such fundamental importance be given wider pub-  licity. My delegation also hopes that in the future, the Board will find ways and means of evaluat-  ing, perhaps on an experimental basis, some of the activities and projects mentioned In the  Director-Gensral's reports.
4.16 Mr. President, may I express the views of my delegation on the second document (18 C/5).  We believe that this document, which has been prepared in accordance with the directives of the  last General Conference and the Executive Board, is excellent, and should serve as a model for  other United Nations agencies. The Director-General has prepared document 18 C/5 after review-  ing the progress achieved during the present biennium, and jt is here that we note with pleasure an  element of inherent continuity, since most of the activities undertaken are of a long-term nature.  The presentation of inter-sectoral activities for the first time represents an innovation. As we  know, the G:neraï Conference ts invited every two years to examine document C/5 and to vote a  programme and budget for the next biennium,
4.17 1 shall now comment briefly on the main features of the sectoral and inter-sectoral pro-  grammes, leaving details to my delegation, which will participate in the work of the various Com-  mittees and Commissions,
4,18 Education is, and must remaln, the most Important sector of the Organization's activities,  and it is the fleld with which Unesco is most clusely identified throughout the world. Democrati-  zation and renovation, viewed within the context of life-long education, should remain the two ma-
12   jor objectives. The young Republic of Afghanistan will embark in the near future on a fairly large  programme of renovation of education, and it is here that we are seeking the advisory services of  Unesco which have been made available to a number of Member States upon request.
4.19 Democratization is a long-range goal and should be vigorously pursued. We are increasingly  aware of the global magnitude of the illiteracy problem. If the resources at the disposal of man-  kind were pressed Into service and fully exploited, there is no reason why this scourge should not be  elirninated from our planet, say, even before the year 2000, My country has already taken initial  measures supported by Infrastructural and budgetary dispositions to achleve a progressive solution  of this problem.
4,20 Included in the concept of life-long education is an {important group, namely the "Third Age",  to which reference has been made in the proposed programme. This is an encouraging develop-  ment, and we hope that Unesco will continue to take positive and practical action in this vital area.
4.21 The increase in operational activities in this sector shows how much other international  agencies rely on Unesco for the execution of their programmes,
4,22 In the programme for the natural sciences and their application, the two sectors of "utiliza-  tion of science and technology for development", and "the environmental sciences and natural re-  sources research", are receiving increased extra-budgetary resources, In our view, the science  sector should not attempt to be active in all fields of science and should avoid as much as possible  duplication of activities carried out by other agencies. One of the most important rôles of this  sector is the encouragement of international scientific co-operation and collaboration. Once such  co-operation is established or institutionalized and has reached a certain degree of maturity, it  should be allowed to continue outside Unesco's influence.
4.23 The social sciences, humanities and culture programme sector has not found its proper  place at the centre of the Organization's programme and recejvas very limited extra-budgstary  resources. My delegation is keenly interested in the creation of an international fund for the  promotion of culture under the auspices of Unesco and I am giad that the Executive Board, at ite
95th session, recommended its creation. Unesco must give more attention to reviving and devel-  oping national cultures in accordance with the wishes expressed by the Asian Ministers of Culture  at Yogyakarla.
4,24 For the communication sector, my delegation gives its full support to the general orientation  and objectives of the proposed programme and welcomes tho increasedimportance givento research  directed to facilitating the elaboration of national communication policies. While we also welcome  the proposals for the further development of the programme for book promotion and development,  we are deeply concerned about the growing shortage of paper for printing and the increasing cost  of books. Some of the developing countries engaged in the revision and printing of new textbooks  have been seriously affected. I hope that Unesco will, within its competence and possibly with the  help of its paper-producing Member States, find a solution to this urgent problem.
4,25 The inter-sectoral programmes in document 18 C/5 on human rights and peace and on popu-  lation problems, besides playing a promotional rôle within the different sectors of the Secretariat,  will provide liaison with the competent organs of the United Nations and governmental and non-  governmental organizations. My delegation supports the stand of the Director-General against the  creation of the youth programme on an inter-sectoral basis, in the strict sense of the term. We  are not in favour of Unesco risking too much in creating more inter-sectoral programmes but feel  that some time is needed in order to see and evaluate the results of the two programmes already  launched. We are inclined to believe that more inter-sectoral programmes, at this stage, would  drastically alter the vertical structure of the Secretariat and would be to the disadvantage of this  Organization.
4.26 Mr. President and distinguished colleagues, the proposed budget for 1975-1976 ts a modest  one, and we regret that the Director-General has not taken into account the 8% growth rate fixed  as a working hypothesis by the last General Conference. Nevertheless, my delegation supports the  total budget of $169, 992, 000 which represents only à 3% growth, and aleo the amendment of Finan-  cial Regulation 3,9, 1am glad that yesterday the plenary adopted by an overruling majority a bud-  get celling of $169, 992, 000.
4.27 The Secretariat has reached a state of stability which should prove satisfactory for a number  of years to come, The proposed increase in staff (18 C/5) is partly motivated by the proposed  programme growth of 5. 9%. My delegation supports some of the modifications, amulgamations and  deletions, bearing in mind the rights of every experienced administrator, such as our distinguished  Director-General, who for well-known reasons has refrained from proposing changes in the higher  echelons of the Secretariat. We welcome the programmes for training and retrainin;} members of  the Secretariat, and hope that this will also be applied in thé case of stafi of National Commissions,  particularly those in the developing countries, Naturally, the growth of Inter-sectoral activitize  may affect the vertical structure of the Secretariat, and the creation of horizontal structures  requires a great deal of care and study. We lispe that there will be a greater rotation of staff  between Headquarters and the field.
4,28 Mr, President, there is a constantly growing demand for Unesco's services In its Member  States, so particular attention should be paid to the immediate needs of the developing countries  with special reference to the least-developed countries,
4.29 I would briefly like to refer to the last document under ccnsideration, document 18 C/4:  Analysis of problems and table of objectives to be used as a basis for medium-term planning
(1977-1982), The contents of this document do not per se conntitute a medium-term plan. The  document presents a table of the objectives to be used as a baeis for the preparation of such a plan,  We are aware that the Special Committee of the Board has proposed, by way of example, certain  objectives in their order nf priority; my delegation feels however that peace, international under-  standing, the elimination of colonialism and racialism, humen rights and development, remain the  priority areas for most developing countries, Given that on that hypothesis Unesco is assured  eventually of substantial monetary contributions from the richer countries, irrenpective of their  stage of development, my delegation would lke to propose the creation of a committee of "sages"  consisting of some past presidents of the General Conference, chairmen of the Executive Board and  some higher staff members of the Secretariat, retired or active, to think over priority areas, their  medium- or long-term solutions, and the allocation of resources; for the preseat I doubt whether  either the plenary or the fifth Commission will find itself in a position to recommend a well-  balanced table of objectives for the elaboration of medium-term plans, I therfore propose that we  leave the subject in the competent hands of the Secretariat, which has proved itself on many such  occasions,
4,30 In concluding, Mr. President and distinguished colleagues, \ should like to welcome repre-  sentatives of new Member States and Associate Members, I should also like on behalf of my  Government and our peoples to express our special admiration to Mr, René Maheu, for his out-  standing service and profound dedication to this Organization, His efforts and personality over the  years have done much to shape and form the Organization into the dynamic institution that it is and  his achievements are well known to all, We are delighted that another distinguished personality  from the Third World has received the unanimous support of all Member States of the Organization  to fill this high office. Mr, Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, as Assistant Director-General for Education,  has already proved his talents as an administrator, diplomat and scholar. It is here that we note,  with a great deal of joy and pleasure, a realization of the concepts of continuity and renewal, which  are the real essence of Unesco. Since Mr. M'Bow will take over the destiny of the Organization at  a difficult time and since the position, by its very nature is a very challenging one, he requires our  full support.
4.31 On my own behalf and on behalf of my delegation, I would like to extend to the Palestine  Liberation Organization a most warm welcome; Unesco's achievement in educating children of the  Palestine refugees is an outstanding example of the Organization's efforts towards the promotion of  equality of educational opportunity for people driven from their ancient lands, I welcome with  pleasure the representatives of African liberation movements recognized by the Organization of  African Unity. The Government and people of Afghanistan have always believed and will continue  to believe in the rights of all people and will wholeheartedly support all efforts aimed at the achieve-  ment of self-determination.
4,32 Naturally, I cannot leave this rostrum without paying tribute to our host country, France,  whose contribution to Unesco and to the General Conference continues to be most generous, Thank  you, Mr. President.
(5) Le PRESIDENT, - (Traduit de l'espagnot. )  Je remercie S, Exec, M. N. Pazhwak, chef de la délégation de l'Afghanistan, et je donne la parole à  S. Exc. M. G.J. Roberts, chef de la délégation de la Gamble,
6.1 Mr. ROBERTS (Gambia):  Mr. President, Your Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, whenever
1 find myself in a situation like this, when, after so many distinguished and able speakers, I have  to utter variations on the same theme, I am always reminded of the story of a sixteenth-century  English preacher, who had been preaching about the eighth century prophets, Isiah, Jeremiah,  Hosea, Amos and the like, and had kept his congregation spell-bound for three long heura, and  when his congregation thought he had come to the end of his sermon, he put his arms s.kimbo and  said, "Now, where shall | place Amos?" Immediately, an old man in the congregation stood up  and pointing to his own seat, said to the preacher, "You may place him here, I'm going away."  Mr. President, ledles and gentlomen, I do not intend to give you cause to walk out on me after that  fashion, for what ! have to say will be directly proportionate to the size of the country I represent.
6.2 Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Gambian Minister of Fducation, Alhaji  the Hon. Mr. M,C. Cham, who has been accredited to Unesco as the Head of the Gambian Delega-  tion to the eightzenth session of the General Conference, but who unfortunately cannot be present  at thie Conference before 8 November - on his behalf, 1 bring you fraternal greetings from the  President of the Republic of Gambia, Sir Dawda Jawara, the Government and the people of Gambia.
6.3 As this is the first opportunity I have had to speak at such a conference since Gambin was  accorded full membership of Unesco in August last year, I wish to express my country's delight  and appreciation at this honour and privilege. It is rather auspicious that this occasion should  coincide with the launching of my country's ten-year policy on education, for I can see this illus-  trious Organization playing a useful réle in the implementation of our education policy,
6.4 This policy will afm, at the first level, to develop the child's ability to think for himself, to  solve his own problems, to be adaptable, resourceful, to follow his own interests, to build up his  physique, to develop mental and manual skills, and to know where to get the information and niater-  fals he wants. At the second level, it will aim at producing an egalitarian society, using all the  resources at its disposal to continue to build on the fundamental attitudes, aptitudes and values laid  down in the primary school course. A necessary emphasis at this level would be to create an inter-  est and the right attitude toward particlpation in agriculture and vocational skills, which are neces-  sary for the welfare and balanced development of the community. The policy will continue at the  third level to emphasize a sense of duly and service to the community as being essential to the well-  being of Gambia, and to provide the manpower needs of the country at all levels,
6.5 One of the major areas of development forming part of our policy is one for which we propose  to tap the resources and expertise of Unesco. It is the area of non-formal or continuing education.  We propose that continuing education should cover all areas of education outside the formal school  system. There will be three specific age groups to consider: the pre-school age group; those  youths above 13 years who do not attend any formal educational institutions; and adulte, Our ener-  gles and resources will be directed in the main to the last two, while the first will be considered on  a limited experimental basis at the outset of the ten-year development period. 1t is envisaged that  the youth programmes will include a number of specific projects relevant to each educational ad-  ministrative region. Considerable emphasis will be placed on practical work, For adults, the  rural programmes will include farm development and management, minor irrigation works, vari-  ous agricultural operations, public health, sanitation, the organization and development of co-  operatives, a savings drive, road building, etc. Literacy programmes will be integrated in all  these programmes. This is a virgin area for us in Gambia, and it is hoped that the wealth of  knowledge and experience Unesco has acquired inthis field will be placed at the disposal of my  Government through the appropriate channels.
6.6 Another major area of development for which we shall look to Unesco for guldance and assist-  ance is in the realm of curriculum development or revision and teaching resources. To this we  would add the area of book development. \Ve are already on the move to establish a curriculum  development and resources unit in a college of further education we are in the process of building.  Unesco has already offered to provide an expert to help establish this unit and to give us a basis  for the general revision of our syllabuses at both primary and secondary levels in the light of our  proposed ten-year education policy.
6.7 There is as yet no Unesco project in Gambla, but we hope that this General Conference will  mark the beginning of an era of Gambia's full participation in a variety of projects within the com-  petence of Unesco. As a new member of Unesco we would naturally need, to begin with, some  guidance in the setting up of a National Commission for Unesco in Gambia.
6.8 Document 18 C/5, which is now under consideration, offers a number of areas of possible  Unesco assistarce to Gambia. I would like to express my country's interest in a few:  (a) Paragraph 1242, on Methods, Materials and Techniques. Gambia would be interested in  a pilot droject on:  (i) taxtbook development  (ii) ‘mprcvement of educational materials, and  (iii) the development of educational broadcasting.  (b) The three paragraphs beginning with 1290 offer possible assistance in an area I have men-  tio:ed earlier, non-formal or continuing education,  (ec) The pre-university science and technology education programme in yaragraph 1336 offers  a further opportunity to enhance our continuing or life-long education project.  (d) In paragraph 1356 I see possibilities of Unesco assistance in the form of consultants and  fellowships for the planning, development and evaluation of rural and agricultural educa-  tion programmes, including advanced and technical training of agricultural cadres, initial  ani in-service training of teachers, adoption of methuds and curricula, diversification of  secondary education, the search for innovation in keeping with new strategies, etc.  (e) I was delighted to hear the Director-General dilate so effectively on the nead to improve  the quality of life through the development of things cultural. We would hope that in the  next two years this purposeful direction would be pursued and that under paragraph 3283  of the document under consideration, Gambia would receive technical and financial assis-  tance’ from Unesco for the development of national schemes for financing cultural action  and eriistic creation.
6.9 I have no doubt that in the next few weeks opportunities will arise for my delegation to discuss  with the relevant departments of the Unesco Secretariat these aveas of possible assistance to  Gambia within the context of document 18 C/5,
6.10 Mr. President, I will be failing in my duty if I conclude this statement without expressing,  on behalf of the head of my delegation, our delight at the unanimity with which the Executive Board  of Unesco submitted the name of Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow as the candidate worthy of appointment to  the post of Director-General in succession to Mr. René Maheu, The exalted heights which  Mr. Maheu attained during the twelve years of his dedicated leadership of Unesco have been so  brilliantly painted by so many distinguished delegates before me that I will not attempt to tarnish  the picture.
6.11 The Gambian delegation is particularly delighted with the nomination of Mr. M'Bow, for  Gambia and Senegal have a number of fundamental factors in common. We are the same people,  we speak the same languages and share the same soclo-economic development and cultural heri-  tage, We are therefore proud that a son of this common soil should be appointed to such a high  office. We cherish the hope that his conduct as a man, his zeal and devotion in the service of  Unesco, will be met with the approbation and reward of all delegates in a unanimous vote by accla-  mation, at the appropriate time during the Conference,
6.12 Allow me once again, Mr. President, your excellencles, distinguished delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, to thank this illustrious Organization for the very warm welcome accorded to Gambia  on its admission to full membership last year. We hope and pray that the trust reposed in it will  not be misplaced, Thank you, Mr. President.
(7} Le PRESIDENT, - (Traduit de l'espagnol.)  Je remercie S. Exc, M. G.J. Roberts, chef de la délégation de la Gambie, et je donne la parole à  S. Exc, M, Waldo Bernal Pereira, chef de la délégation de la Bolivie.
(8.1) M, BERNAL PEREIRA (Bolivie). - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs, au nom du gouvernement et du peuple de la Bolivie,  je salue tous ceux qui sont ici réunis pour mener à bien, en oubliant leurs différ:nds, une grande entre-  prise de solidarité, pour chercher des solutions aux problèmes qui se posent en matière d'éducation, de  sclence et de culture et pour tenter de répondre, en facilitant le processus du développement, aux besoins  et aux aspirations de nos peuples.
(8.2) Je tiens à adresser tout particulièrement mon salut à Mme la Présidente de notre Conférence géné-  rale, A laquelle je souhaite tout le succès possible dans la délicate mission qui lui a été confiée,
(8,3) Nous constituons, nous tous qui sommes {ci réunis, le vivant symbole d'une solidarité multinatio-  nale qui ne recouvre aucune intention cachée et ne répond qu'au désir de renforcer toujours davantage  l'entente et l'union entre les divers peuples qui aspirent à une vraie paix et à une sincère coopération.
(8.4) L'Unesco, symbole de la solidarité au sein de la communauté mondiale, doit chaque jour redoubler  d'efforts pour trouver des chemins qui puissent, à travers les transformations de l'éducation, de la  science et de la culture, conduire à une féconde fraternité. Les objectifs que nous nous sommes donnés  exigent que nous menions une action conjointe pour rénover les modes de vie de nos peuples ef pour appor-  ter aux viellles structures des modifications propres à permettre à tous les individus de participer au pro-  cessus de développement de la société dans laquelle nous vivons.
(8.5) Dans le Projet de programme et de budget pour 1975-1976, l'Unesco nous donne une vision nouvelle  de ce qu'elle peut faire dans les domaines qui sont de sa compétence. Mon pays fait siennes ses concep-  tions et souhaite participer à l'effort commun en vue duquel nous sommes ici rassemblés. Devant les pers-  pectives nouvelles qui nous sont offertes, nous sommes conduits à réaffirmer notre confiance en l'Unesco,  dont nous pouvons dire, nous en sommes sûrs, non seulement qu'elle nous apporte l'espoir, mals encore  qu'elle est capable de fournir des solutions aux problèmes, aussi nombreux que complexes, qui affectent  les pays sous-développés.
(8,6) Tandis que le jeu de ses institutions s'améliore sous l'effet de l'erdre, de la paix et de l'action que  mène le gouvernement du général Don Hugo Binzer Suérez, la Bolivie voit sa souveraineté prendre de plus  en plus de poids grâce à un vigoureux nationalisme qui doit sa puissance au fait qu'il s'intègre à un natlo-  nalisme latino-américain aussi ferme que constructif, Le gouvernement nationaliste dv général Hugo  BAnzer Suârez a des objectifs bien arrêtés, à la réalisation desquels il est prêt à apporter beaucoup de dé-  sision et de hardlesse, Il s'efforce de trouver les voies à suivre pour pouvoir offrir aux générations fu-  tures, avec la sécurité et la prospérité, les bienfaits d'une intégration nationale féconde et d'une intégra-  tion supranationale harmonieuse et digne.
(8.7) Consclent de la nécessité d'organiser sur des bases réalistes le développement de son système d'édu-  cation, mon pays s'est lancé - tâche ardue - dans une complète analyse de ce système (le ""Diagnéstico In-  tegral de ta Educacién') pour pouvoir ensuite élaborer un plan national de développement de l'éducation  ("Plan Naclonal de Desarrollo Educativo'"), Le travail que nous avons entrepris et les ébjectifs que nous  nous sommes donnés répondent à notre désir d'assurer à tous égards le progrès des Bollviens ; aussi  méritons-nous de bénéficier du concours de l'Unesco et de celui que peuvent nous apporter les autres ins-  titutions internationales et les pays étrangers.
(8.8) L'un des problèmes fondamentaux auxquels nous avons aujourd'hui à faire face est celui que pose  l'éducation diversifiée dont il faudrait faire bénéficier les zones rurales, Le développement des régions  rurales de notre pays ne sauralt être négligé ; 1'analphabétismequiy sévit ne saurait, non plus que ses  causes, nous laisser indifférents ; seule l'éducation des populations rurales pourra permettre chez nous  la transformation des structures soclo-économiques et un développement désormals orienté vers des ob-  jectifa choisis en fonction de la notion de dignité humaine : paix, justice, travail et liberté, La tâche qui  s'impose ainsi à nous n'est certes pas facile ; mais nous avons confiance dans noire destin et nous avons  la conviction que nos objectifs pourront être atteints.
(8.9) L'éducation peut constituer, nous en sommes persuadés, un Investissement à court ou moyen terme.  Mais, pour qu'il en soit réellement ainsi dans les pays où l'analphabétisme est, comme dans le mien, très  répandu, 11 faut que l'on puisse bénéficier, au moment où l'on va procéder à cet investissement, de l'expé-  rience et de l'aide des pays qui en sont déjà à un stade plus avancé, L'Unesco a su montrer par son action  que c'est là une chose qu'elle n'oublie pas ; aussi lui demandons-nous de s'intéresser résolument à notre  problème, Je tiens ici A rendre particulièrement hommage au Bureau d'éducation {béro-américain et à son  éminent secrétaire général, M. Rodolfo Barôn Castro, lant pour les efforts qu'ils déploient en vue de la  liquidation de l'analphabétisme que pour l'aide qu'ils apportent aux pays qui ont à faire face, comme le  mien, au problème que je viens de mentionner, Leur action est à la fois efficace et opportune.
(8.10) Les projets et programmes que nous soumettons à l'examen de lÜnesce pour l'exercice 1975-1976  ont, à nos yeux, un caractère prioritaire et, bien que ce ne soft pas actuellement le moment de les analy-  ser, nous demandons: qu'ils fassent l'objet de la plus grande attention et qu'on les fasse bénéficier de tous  les appuis possibles, '
(8.11) Certains riéritent, en raison de leur fmportance, de donner lieu à us sincère effort de compréhen-  sion de la part de ceux qui ont à administrer les ltonds-en-dépôt"" ; je lance donc à ves admiristrateurs,  en faveur de l'eseignement bolivien, un appel qui, j'en suls sûr, sera entendu.
(8,12) Monsieur le Directeur général de l'Unesco, nous comptons fermement sur l'organisation que vous  dirigez, sur ses Etats meinbres et sur le service de gestion des fonds-en-dépôt pour apporter une solu-  tion au problème de notre équipement en mobilier scolaire de base. Nos demandes sont classées selon un  ordre de priorité qui est fonction de nos besoins et nous espérons que, compte tenu des considérations  d'opportunité et d'urgence, on y répondra dans un gain eaprit de compréhension, de coopération et de  solidarité,
(8.13) En ma qualité de président de la cinquième Réunion des ministres éc i'éducation des pays ayant  adhéré au Pacte Andrés Bello (convention qui vise à assurer l'intégration en matière d'éducation, de  science et de culture), j'ai eu le grand honneur d'être désigné comme porte-parole des pays qui consti-  tuent la région andine : le Chili, la Colombie, l'Equateur, le Pérou, le Venezuela et la Bolivie, Ces paye  se sont engagés dans un processus d'intégration sous-régionale que l'Unesco s'efforce de faciliter eu  moyen de projets de portée continentale comme celui qui a trait au Système régional de télé-enselgnement  pour les pays d'Amérique latine (SERLA). Nous souhaitons que ce projet contribue efficacement à la réa-  llsat{on de l'intégration recherchée ; mals 11 est pour cela Indispensable qu'il soit doté d'un budget adéquat  et qu'il donne lieu A l'application d'un plan d'opérations céallste permettant de répondre aux besoins et aux  espoirs de nos peuples et de nos gouvernements, C'est en vertu de ces impératifs d'ordre régional que les  pays qui ont, comme le mien, adhéré au Pacte Andrès Bello demandent à l'Unesco de leur apporter un  ferme soutien,
(8.14) Le projet sous-régional de l'Unesco pour la préservation et la conservation du patrimoine culturel  de la zone andine mérite notre plus sincère appui, car il traduit un effort multinational au profit d'une sous-  région où s'est développée une civilisation particulière dont les produits culturels font partie du patrimoine  universel,
(8.15) Je veux aussi, puisque l'occasion m'en est offerte, exprimer le désir qu'ont les pays de la région  andine de voir l'Unesco s'intéresser de pres A l'avenir de nos peuples et au sien même, Je rappellerai à  ce propos les recommandations qui ont été formulées quand s'est réunie en 1971 à Caracas la Conférence  des miristres de l'éducation et des ministres responsables de l'application de la science et de la technique  au développement en Amérique latine et dans la région des Caraîbes. On a en effet, lors de cette confé-  rence, reconnu la nécessité d'envisager une décentralisation administrative de l'Unesco et un renforce-  ment de ses centres régionaux, afin que son action, au lieu d'avoir tendance à se diluer dans l'espace et  dans le temps, devienne au contraire plus efficace, Nous avons déjà manifesté lors de ln dix-septième ses-  sion de la Conférence générale l'intérêt que nous portons à cette question et nous croyons utile de le mani-  fester de nouveau aujourd'hui,
(8.16) Je véux, avant de terminer, insister sur la conscience, l'efficacité et l'esprit de sacrifice avec  lesquels M, René Maheu s'est acquitté de sa tâche de directeur général de l'Unesco, Son sens des respon-  sabilités, ses capacités bien connues, son dévouement et sa largeur d'esprit lui ont valu la reconnaissance  de mon gouvernement, qui s'associe aux paroles de gratilude qui lui ont été adressées au sein de cette  assemblée,
(8.17) L'entrée à l'Unesco de nouveaux Etats constitue un hommage À la grandeur de notre Organisation  et à la noblesse de ses idéaux, Je souhaite fraternellement la bienvenue à ces nouveaux Etats membres et  je forme en même temps des voeux pour que leur action au sein de la communauté internationale serve  efficacement la cause de la paix et de la coopération entre les peuples.
(8.18) Je tiens enfin à exprimer toute la confiance avec laquelle mon gouvernement envisage l'avenir de  l'Unesco et des organismes internationaux qui lui sont liés.
(8.19) Nous sommes persuadés que l'union des volontés et des efforts fera tomber les obstacles qui nous  séparent. Nous estimons que c'est seulement en nous appuyant sur l'éducation, la science et la culture que  nous pourrons assurer le développement de nos peuples et forger, «1 nous inspirant du principe de l'éga-  lité des chances et de l'idée de solidariié internationale, la paix à laquelle nous aspirons tous. Je vous  remercie, Monsieur le Président.
(9) Le PRESIDENT, - (Traduit de l'espagnol, )  Je remercie S. Exc, M. Waldo Bernal Pereira, chef de la délégation de la Bolivie, et je donne main-  tenant la parole à S, Exc, M, Halim Safd Abu-Izzeddin, chef de la délégation du Liban.  (ae ball de ppantl) es 5650) puede pBl Vel  som ddl  [WSC] | PIPE TW 1 NTI] ROR le 6 62557 SOL IE A * [NS] IPI TAR PLU 5 — 1-0)  CLE 3 Ee Lr 6 ga) pa LS  Tags lit amb pS 58 Lhe SIN Bl) spe Tel CSI pla dl alll)  PA WP WOR) PR LI I TA 1 ose By. Labi laa dy Shad palit Lad PH LR de nel  B33 on shy LA J RUE NL à Leslagly AN 0d Spd ads 3 plas VU LUE us  JPRS. EO I PONG Spas Jay ail JIN J WOT PY VRE) JR WPT PR POSUERE SRE  Sainedlole Jay 8 Sal 3e Lams Lad 5 Joy Fak al (bpd 0 JBL  PUNSIPICS OPIN © TUS [I QUI JISC | I JADU SPIE NPL NI (NT et PO VO Sd ess Les  «38, sy 9501
296   Bla Glad nus 55 6 aslo aeddlodn [Bl ad € VAN ge gj py vad  ub ses — di Lgaë y « À Y Lys 3e poi) de VII | PO Ju) plat ete Fe Lis,  als Juge à Jebel aids Jk lyr mal 50) Bolo dala cally go) kd  + 5208 SEA geld sul, ddl JUIN € VU  $list antag Bg 3 pe sand à pte all Ll af Ji ie 1 GL wil oly — yy  eldall gl. wal, Je 0 oddball plead JI sigh! 5 ahs SIN d'age WME Sul)  Tov JY lé go We pod Sed JE € Rpt pl ob = o bd of ds él dpelaJt LIL Baas  y | I PON TH VE WS | J BERNA BEY | PON Jess Je de à ve | IRR PN OI I JP JG TY RES  « pastel, GL idl flat tS, dees (dye VI ped  eda Jade pe 64 Ip 5 Le bg RAIN deal last pond 1 VU 6 Boldt Ll 0 gon D — yg  + i apa Ll all idl ee esl SAIL ass ps Il Gil I)  dled! Gas solo Yl CAL (Los 3 least last) US. RSA gn ay gales LW Blo  rE RES à JM as à  PCUARF TLE 155 40 KY IPIPAFARPICORS V Sc DL By J3 1 | RI PRION 1 VRS | WL | RCE)  «gel isda Wat gles date 6 BAISE Jp Lacie JL was! Jp ON  JS Libé y JS lly à Ladue goed lsat flasdt Jou 6 Wad à ee) gl — 4 +0  «Las ei plat oF evs Cao JS age 5 SM EAN slot aad  ele dl ge eat 5 le SU — ap udlode J) pls plu y Shay cut Il deuil pd ot —y  Ley, 405 las wl, — wl Ulis o Ort ES ol Gow Slo Pans ud  or Ja bless oe! € cer laSl eye Ladi Is « pl up 053 $ rc Nl lie Sle f ok ur LU vas  Gal | 1 abl 4 Las edly ç 3GedYy happy al ge ol o wal JUSS la Ÿ : ese! Loss le  PRES USE] o a] P| A2 oo Al poll J dé, Slo e Lat ly, ped! oe Last Ly 5  we 3b € ulus Yl Lessslos ol) cod LS s AS lu die at 316 1 e Xl, SUIS Gayysly  OVE C1 BY BN PRPCT| 1 eue ue PP  Boda LLB gb Gob os 0 ede juislly Jost glo Jeli ol ge sSasall wy V5  abel lhl Jp dl Lhbass à (Boll senadl Jb Tapas Lak Lb à AA 358200 ap,50h  eds ok "Las VV Jp 001 sole à LU ads Jus ob bY, pla as alll pol Lie 5  tadladl alas V1 Las Lod Gilead Vly BBY Gap ally daladl Jal dads clube Gis  Cup) ge oe dabydl clabdly Glua Vly 6 Gps om  —— obs oH! clws.edl (5! oli dau lu} 35255 tés oi! Slag gl wall us, au, JY  Lp dpi Jal bal pled ail clos) p le jah due 55 € plat Loa)  oeolkedl sds aelidl labs! glu B15 LE Lula de § Lyslo les] wuss 5 pl  Lobe) Lambo à bled Lpaiis à Lem clpladliyiy sus op) (od85 ¢ ua Jb Abu JS *LLA)  Logie boos 6 ele iin 3 LIN ght jos JI Ille à dl posal gas Jo ysl  bbls 5)  Less a afd € Jdomdl iy Lob 5 clolos Vlogs polo pus Blu on WY 2  cabal yerlllode pi RSI clas 1 (pa) ply lanl dle Gb SAN  JS Ge Gdsally AU à polly SYLLAU pe gle pds J Taber 6 SIL AN Ld HL G1 — VA  Plas Sol Jes 3b Vl gk 5 IV we ob Wd Whedly LAS Bent vole on  Il Jy. loyléslà ai, coast LE Lens lis Gage Bis wo 0 fg bil ed du JUIN bout  ido Vas Las Yl Lapa bie Goad) Wise opuly (Ll (3 2m5 SN a LS) 6 3p0laadl Bump SOIN 2, Las!  » ppp clazeadl 5 Lana) V1 Mo) any bail 3)laedl cab Lo al  vois gall lie 5 5 ges € BE0 Les gli lie 55 58 po Suis I ape Lu dl gd ol  A ST PONT pl BAS piles à VATED WPT J RSA Les IL JL  equal Lée à cola 65e oo Blah pA 3 eget de SUB Joa) aed! CN 10A  out o pr 5-5 emt Gadl LGV S31 gua 1 JG OS Let put Jue Ÿ  «LAN GLS) ho 5Sp Play pba Gly Sas! ow GUSH avr seis JE  JURY IPT TERE Vt SRY FO SII {6 J I PORT WT VE ge 6 Cubes) ess Tarte 1j0 O Se  chlo andl aks Lopl Wil Wal gi obo Bally hand! old Sad 1 Ley”: JU  To Ms gly AU à dl Pu Ghes okey +10 Resid 34,0
12 vasplon VAI Jagd ue ll cigl pay Manley à dass! abl cll ests wd  FPN IN) (FURS SI FUR URS 190 | I Ain I | J CV | SON C1 J PPSVS | PIE TI WY I SOU | IP | ROSY PPPS | J  u-—— ; Sasa dau e osbasdl : Ld sul Lo "pe LU Vase ” « 5500 (ia yLl of 4 LAN
3 ges | Jf M 0 WET Fi V5 1 pp FEB) CITE VIVE [SPST PRP 528 SAR J WP  pad (Hod Sal denen Bl JVI plea VU We Jl 5h Lie Gulag dgady  Bjoland!  ’ sla Yl ol  ob arbi V5 Bla us pe wd LI 5 LUN JWI Ghd wake lay 5 1 SA bas)  I TE Ness Üs La! Seal No) 1 35a) Ru Las Yl Jyodl Oe vay JL sks cles RRL Vou  «ally Jay peudly PRAGUE lage 6 RSI, Aled! Â Aah uli ebay el  pS pL Bane parted Gabry Usine) 301, Baby Alu SLE Ga GLB LS yy  Bea Beal Gdn Glab Wh oy avg ode T vy 8 EST 5 Gpa 55 Bi 5  oN clbgioadly GUI ue 0) ELU Blas SS) Lbs od pane a 3100 sda Lut Lk  (GE J praise Geib Cys Bogda ball gtd Lia FL Jbl l,l aod comes
6 ete Bobo PLL Le wd daw BJs ol Yi obs tar al lb LS Bh ciel  ome Ÿ a ppgta dl VIS 6 LSA Boually BAA ull wb oh Lath bia pS Bl cus on  pI 1 A | o Asset Cay 95 olusy oe! Sp Lb tas OF M ay le Je Joue 65) Laks  JUN CV IY )° PAIN TW J ICICI TR WASTE YN 1 JON | PRY 11 IV) NP SIRI | BPR 11 PISO I RUSE SO |  con YUSIE ia tliat npg ade bind) 253i LL,  Le pis glass sl home of Jad! or Fo 5) 5 GLEN Gall oS Ÿ rout l wad! — yu)  BT VU RTE [SO RV  — Lume 56h ol US . 25440 Ab vas 55e yall lin J on Li. #5 LS ¢ ts  Ble je G 68 Sumy pall ool à Le Lapa ee LS « pio  ils LI VIS VV à Le yo il Jb slain! cand 6 hpulee Cie (LM 8 84  Led pdt Lins oo pl Lola ly (J wie 05% 0 Uslban) pms on 38 1 hs as 2B  pele Le ld Lal ses
2 Bb IT WJ s>k ob bl ge cusal cI yyy  PCH] PR VOW | ER VUR | BR PVN SFY CIPI | IRR JOP | I 3-5) CAS | BPI PRCT SPR SJ  dre oh ag 831 nly Ly Jus od Bal 6855 SS Jaga PNB Jub ple (lay eS JUS  ead, gland GEA weal Gb Ble pulse pablo pele weaadl 5e si) Lie  md pl JL pie iii Lis GLa oF Je 6 JUIN IBY GB umes ppl ose ¥ (glad  sal gad! Goo poe sas Ole BSE Jal) pull Jia did WBS Lyla Soul publ  a Noel di ppm à sola! Lob Godt Rte 11 gg Saadl Sluzedl on Bees Lhe 51  abi gy abiodlodn oo pied] Gotdly à dplall clopally aed CITE LE, à ass ge ped  odes Js Bl bd oe Glebe dl OY elle kyla Ws dps 5 dass 01  . bols  pol U5 6 PE à nazie YI Leola) I àaxpmsdl ah all oss ol [OV LUE 25 sh  ait! cidiadly 4 Fuss! eo J! gs vas Gt cL JS GA is SPU sie 3,5 Hans.  Ott Bp — Bus hls 8 pada Glnesls lad) lap OST A Sd! Lee (gy Lee  AOR 1) RUT PORN PCRS BILAN PRT ORR  iad WI Balin BLES SL) Gels lan AS LIN ly y BON pleat Gb ol  old oly agylandly ASIE Ladle eis J pp gt bi AUS oe 0 AU Ghee! LL  asl Jyodl ge Jl à gyôsesl Lin dpm 515 payday puis 35 Boalt JAI ge uf Gage) Js lly  elo ul whl oss 3) ob edd poy Fadl ST ahs os BLY sk 350.00  . Alt oF Beg XL pas po ol ele san Jk BlisJhy + aol  club al pli alg) om bustle oe td AU BILAN Ld est SOY Sh yyy  JUSNES IVS JURE WCW C3 ITEC I W-C [EV Ÿ Ages ul ORCTW | JAVON CYR Lans 70  REY WE
38 Lil à Lor Fuel po 1 Olarl JS 5 IN 6 ing, lal agpepmall tml Suit Glial)  able} a, Bd 6 aad oll LE Lub cab altgoledl Jo gud 55 Lois dslaly dak 3,0 Les  Cole BS ola Ls ehbull cde Lb or up gl ak  ag Sa Le], Bubadl 5 gaeehll So See JUNC QVCTORT JR FX) BV: PEPER NR ROP  RAR] WS | ui WL PAR UPS SOI] P| Re ii JETA VEN | BR [I OW a PL EV Sh dla! SS pn ay  ORTON | BV OW 1) IF SR FACIE |  apd! Was Jy PN} IX PORN] PE] IPR. oils M 6 GU ues 5) 6 peat I weld yy €  tpl) oe YI Sas ob or Sm Glad ods cabs By Bagel loddl o  Snell Sey pl PLT Caml) ipl Sally sSainels Bll Baby Ball re pla  pôle ola Vly gla Vl = Bap fs a aS Vus pL gan Yl lis as Wy, 2uald oY!  esl ee 31 elbully dasa) JE vxles Sepi prie ayléie pd!  TUN $ I WSUS | RY ICU PY Re au SL 5 Shed BAT 6 Le pubs or Bud! 5 Bl  ol clonal Gb lial) Gla olagl 0 ae clad3 V1 wig sani PY Rha) Rad j5  RN le ynhis WHICT IL) I JP)  clad gh 68 a0 flo abodl mall F5 51 6 slid] sige € SOY OÙ 5 eb  ir A5 Ball J Boll gos a5) of 6S emt Oo) gen ASIN BLL Goce 5  ToS) ast lie ced napa! BRL (J Le ad PAR Se Bp hal   FBIN gad JU JE 55 Bel Banh lool  $b andl ues oles Bld! sie pis dl CSN gaged! ad Joys Loads  ir 74 | BRT P| Us Sy er! Cus om Ball puis by, ce byl baby Like op ul JS  Yo Ji Or OS ds . a JJ Ru V5 430 Ji salt Dés 305 alas Vy 42-95 ol ny  ob 6 y aed sus MN € Agana) ALE Ball let bo Bll Jo ol € cls  cpl! a mpl Less l pl Gaba JL ol oS Ÿ AIT Lie Gdes  eS Spel) aslo ll aubyll alll Cest pws ba S31 oe rom see be J AN  Jaa) pis pela! PH ont 3 | Js aul, oll : Las ¢ abil 5 delay Lo dis; ob #5 esse  JAI SF Caget JO PREY ES ay Es pelle Jp WOR JPN + ANU PRP TW IER) PTI SN LIN  Crave (Venl/o5b) sles  o— deal SY Sand! LS 67 pe SAN asl JL à US sla apd gl gr LS — 4 25 to  . edad 595 pladl oldies pls tbe cape FF dtd Gel lod  Jatt gels Lela oi JUS TUN | PES FONT POOL § Il SN Vie 0 0) Koopa ci 53  mer lia she ol abd a » wh Candy ot Ju SASS a | lie créées) ‘ pa]  «Let IRE C1 58) JO. J LE Se 5 ange HHol ERA CURT WOE | J JPA DR |  ask plas Lad ge py al ol 6 Rap dle Ts comb! ee 1 IIS (Shen — yo  mr Bell Lola 59 € Spl chlo! ge Ggpazdl ses 6 3AIL heal ada]  Jan! Lig phos + BeosSondl Jo legdly oolandly clasladl bow V Bebiadl Jone 343 (30) Slug V1
1 gh 391 po lilly Gal) oe Lull 5, 6 apa 3abll SAUT uo Gad pris culs  Bel 3Yl Blmall oad! sSdsadl 3,8 gay 17 ssl LY Bagel) bt ladle SI  y BAIL poled! Ge 5 plant pr Adele pulls lpn] ge Bogen lao gra LS  lew Vy greed! Chal Gb ABUS SN Hin Le priv ll 3hadl 1 BLAYL Vis 6 Scie aon 0  Bb! Bn badly Balad! poll abut Gland) Bley ally 6 sebdly aol Gb abSlaall  ol OU Lapse i) asbpll CABLE ge wus (J Gp él gl way 6 La ol ol V5) yy  ele 0 yt Jel pes o € Pov obd ¢ ol à reed! ho LS gh cle gn Je  a bay lai (bas glee old ol hey ull elds ow ble gue ol ue  EPS [| PEPE WAT) LRTI RC STE WO VU TT POY NUN TPL KCTY ORE WITS PR py WEAN  oe La Sol Ill GRATE LA Jaa 3a A5 Ld 5h yl, uly 0 dégae dl pg? oi 3b  RE TYRES I 5 Ole UT Sly 3 LY JU PUURCIPRN IRR I PUR PS 1-4 FOR [PIV CTI WW  is Ladle uf à buds clad sda Sn (hs ol gb PM wos pov ob of  ul BIL JET sda ds glee ols
12 Ble Goes ody J J LEY deat Il BB 5 de Je PB yas! 3 IRPIWUUN | REN VOW | — SP |  Lasts Llp) dd os of AT, pot Lda of ated Iaisl *Lasl pS old a Bola  loo ¢ Sill Lele Ds FLORIO « Ihe L5 6 eT PRES | JEN VY Ry SPIE sde Jus! 5 ul oe  . Sek ¢ Xl, Cob SP pled tld CBS Ge age Ges was dass
(10,1) M, ABU-IZZEDDIN (République libanaise). - (Traduit de l'arabe, ) Monsieur le Président, je  voudrats tout d'abord exprimer le plaisir que j'ai à saisir l'occasion présente pour adresser les saluta-  tions et félicitations chaleureuses de la délégation libanaise à Mme Magda Jébord, présidente de la dix-  huitième session de la Conférence générale. L'appul unanime apporté A l'élection de Mme Jébord comme  présidente de la Conférence est la consécration naturelle des nombreuses années qu'elle a passées à  servir fidèlement la cause de la compréhension internationale et les objectifs de notre Organisation,  Outre l'estime dont il eat le signe, ce choix revêt une signification spéciale en raison de l'attention ac-  cordée par l'Unesco au rôle et à la condition de la femme,
(10.2) Je saiels également cette occasion pour adresser un chaleureux salut À un homme sans qui - nous  le savons tous - l'Unesco ne serait pas aujourd'hui ce qu'elle est ; un homme qui a droit à notre gratitude  unanime, qui a connu l'Unesco dès sa näfssance et a réussi à faire d'elle la conscience des Nations Unies  et le flambeau qui éclaire les perspectives de notre avenir : cet homme est M, René Maheu, Après un  quart de siècle de travail au sein de cette institution, au service de l'homme et de ses problèmes, le Di-  recteur général a cholsi de laisser le champ libre aux services d'un autre, Il l'a fait, non pour se sous-  traire aux responsabilités de sa tâche ni par lassitude, mais parce qu'il a jugé que, ayant pris la barre à  l'étape la plus délicate et la plus difficile de la vie de l'Organisation, {l avait accompli son devoir, et qu'il  incombaiît désormais à son successeur de poursuivre, par des méthodes sans cesse nouvelles, la lutte  qu'il a lui-même engagée pour se ranprocher de l'objectif souhaité,
(10,3) La délégation libanaise, à cette dix-huitième session de la Conférence générale, est fière du rôle  accompli par l'un de ses membres, M, Sarrûf, que l'estime des délégations a porté au Conseil exécutif  puis à sa présidence, Les qualités personnelles de M, Sarrûf et ses mérites scientifiques exceptionnels,  qui lui ont valu d'occuper au Liban et sur la scène Internationale des postes éminents, l'ont sans doute  qualifié pour être le gardien fidèle voire le héraut des valeurs dont l'humanité a fait de notre Organisation  le dépositaire, Les membres de la délégation libanaise adressent à M. Sarrûf leur salut fraternel et l'ex-  pression de leurs sentiments de fierté.
(10.4) Je me dois, Messieurs, de féliciter les membres du Conseil exécutit de l'oeuvre qu'ils ont accom-  plie depuis deux ans et notamment de leur choix judicieux d'un nouseau Directeur général, Ce choix  confirme leur sagesse, car la désignation d'une personnalité dotée de hautes qualités sur le plan scienti-  fique comme sur le plan humain, et appartenant au Tiers monde, plus précisément au continent africain,  est la confirmation d'une confiance bien méritée, Elle atteste aussi la conflance des pays développés dans  les sociétés et pays en développement, aux fins de coopération dans l'intérêt commun.
(10.5) Je salue aussi les nouveaux Etats membres admis au sein de notre Organisation, qui se joignent  ainsi à l'hymne magnifique qu'entonne l'humanité et dans lequel chaque voix nouvelle ajoute à l'harmonfe  et à la splendeur des mélodies.
(10.6) Monsieur le Président, le Liban attache à cette session un intérêt particulier, Il est vrai que les  nombreuses questions à exposer et à débattre ont déjà fait l'objet de discussions approfondies lors des  précédentes sessions de la Conférence, Cependant, un esprit de renouveau nous semble imprégner l'at-  mosphère de la présente session, Le monde a connu au cours des deux dernières années des événements  qui nous incitent à en discuter aujourd'hui, non seulement afin de poursuivre l'étude des problèmes relatifs à  l'éducation, la science et la culture et d'avancer dans les voies et par les méthodes suivies jusqu'à présent,  mais aussi par souci de réviser certaines attitudes dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la science, de la  culture et de l'information ; ces attitudes, révolutionnaires il y a peu d'années, ont été dépassées par les  événements et ont de nouveau besoin d'être révisées et modifiées, L'Unesco doit réagir aux fmpératifs du  changement en rémettant en discussion, sur le plan international et selon des méthodes scientifiques nou-  velles, les problèmes relatifs à l'éducation, la sclence, la culture et l'information, Les Etats et organi-  sations représentés à cette session en débattront et une nouvelle opinion mondiale se cristallisera sur ces  questions, aidant les Etats membres à élaborer et à appliquer dans les domaines de l'éducation, de la  science, de la culture et de l'information des politiques nationales qui tfennent compte de la tendance mon-  diale en même temps que des objectifs et des besoins propres à chaque pays.
(10.7) Nous estirnons donc nécessaire d'élaborer un document de base qui s'ajouterait aux documents  soumis à la Conférence générale, qui constituerait un indicateur général des tendances de l'éducation, de  la science et de la culture dans le monde, et que les Etats consulteraient en vue d'arrêter leur politique  en ces domaines, Si nous laissons aux savants de chaque Etat le soin de dégager les fc:dances scienti-  fiques qui se manifestent dans ces domaines, il est à craindre qu'en ralson de l'abor:lance de l'informa-  tion ou de son insuffisance ou de ses divergences, il ne soit difficile d'en tirer des conclusions et, partant,  d'obtenir de la situation dana fe monde une représentation qui ne soit nf fausse ni déformée, Il faudrait  ensuite essayer d'évaluer les résultats de ces tendances dans le présent et l'avenir, cela devant aider les  Etats à cholsir librement en pleine connaissance de cause entre les différentes possibilités qui s'offrent à  eux dans ces divers domaines,
(10.8) Le monde a besoin d'établir un bilan général des profits et des pertes, du progrès et du retard,  dans les domaînes de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture. L'histoire de l'humanité obéit à une “  règle selon laquelle chacune des civilisations que le moñde a connues depuis fe début de l'histoire a vu  ses conceptions perdre en profondeur à mesure que s'étendait son aire d'influence, Le drame de la civi-
1isation technologique contemporaine réside peut-être dans le fait que, à mesure qu'elle s'étend partout  déns le mondé, ses conceptions humaines originales deviennent de plus en plus superficielles alors qu'elle  n'a pris naissance que pour les enraciner dans les sociétés humaines, La tâche fondamentale de l'Unesco  ast de bien saisir cette réalité, de diffuser cette connaissance et de faire prendre conscience au monde  des choix possibles dans les divers domaines de la civilisation et de tout ce qui s'ensuit à l'échelon natio-  nal, régional et mondial,
(10.9) Monsieur le Président, dans le cadre de cette grande tâche globale que mon pays, le Liban, estime  d'une haute valeur pour un progrès humain équilibré et complet, j'ai le plaisir d'annoncer à cette éminente
300   assemblée que le 5 novembre 1973 un accord a été conclu entre l'Unesco et le gouvernement libanais pour  la création d'un Centre international pour les sciences de l'hormme et le développement, centre dont le  siège serait à Jebeil (Byblos), berceau de l'alphabet et capitale du livre, On lit dans le préambule de cet  accord : ‘Ayant présents à l'esprit la situation géoculturelle du Liban, point de rencontre de l'Asie, de  l'Afrique et de l'Europe, carrefour de civilisations orientales et occidentales ,,, Désireux de promouvoir  à travers le monde ,,. des conceptions et des aspirations communes .,."; Les autorités libanaises com-  pétentes avalent besoin d'un peu de temps piuir assurer les moyèns nécessaires À la réunion d'un cértain  nombre de personnalités mondiales éminentes, invitées à former le comité constitutif du Centre, Etc'est  dans le cadre de ce Centre que se réunira en mars prochain un "Forum sur la Tolérance' organisé par  le Liban en coopération avec l'Unesco ¢ 60 personnalités éminentes du monde intellectuel et spirituel  feront la somme de leur expérience sur cette question vitale et actuelle, Ce congrès comcidera avec la  première réunion de l'organe constitutif du Centre internaticnal pour les sciences de l'homme et le déve-  loppement, Ce Centre conçu pour le bien de l'humanité, et sur lequel le Liban fonde de grands espoirs,  ne pourra commencer l'exécution de son programme d'action que s'il bénéficie d'un soutien et d'un appui  accrus, à tous les égards, de la part de l'Unesco et de ses Etats membres, ainsi que des organisations  internationales ou scientifiques et culturelles,
(10, 10) Le Liban a aussi l'intention de créer un service national pilote d'archives et de documentation,  Ce projet est soumis à la Conférence dans le document 18C/DR, 2 du 27 août 1974, Notre pays attache  beaucoup d'importance à la création de ce service qui l'aidera à mettre sur pled une classification plus  moderne dés quantités considérables de documents et d'archives accumulés tout au long de son histoire.  Ce projet national vise à former le personnel spécialfsé dans la documentation, l'archivage et la biblio-  théconomie, Malgré son caractère national, ce service pilote, une fois réalisé, sera à la disposition de  qui voudra y recourir. L'appui donné à ce projet par les pays frères et amis, que nous remercions, ne  signifie certainement pas qu'il constituera une solution de rechange à substituer au projet de création  d'un centre régional pour la formation de documentalistes pour la région arabe, Ce derniur projet a été  approuvé à Bagdad par la branche régionale arabe du Conseil international des archives ; étant donné  l'intérêt que le Liban porte aux questions de documentation et d'archives, ce pays approuve pleinement  le projet de création d'un tel centre régional,
(10,11) Monsieur le Président, le travail enthousiaste de l'homme ne peut enregistrer de progrès dans  un domaine quelconque si le monde ne connaît pas la paix ni la stabilité, Afnel qu'il a été dit et répété du  haut de cette tribune, la paix ne peut plus être qu'indivisible, Tel événement qui se passait ailleurs ct  que nous considérions comme éloigné de nous semblerait aujourd'hui se produire chez nous, Si la paix a  des aspects politiques qu'il n'y a pas lieu d'évoquer à l'Unesco, elle a aussi des aspects culturels, scien-  tifiques et éducatifs qui sont au centre de notre attention, Nous manquerions À nos devoirs si nous évi-  tions d'en parler sous le prétexte que la question a des implications politiques,
(10.12) Je parlerai dono de l'aspect cullurel et éducatif du problème palestinien, Dans la dernière pé-  riode, notamment, la cause palestinienne a réalisé sur le plan politique des progrès notables, accompa-  gnés d'un optimisme certain quant à l'instauration d'une paix équitable sur un territoire qui soi* avant  tout un havre de sécurité, de justice et de paix, Ce progrès sur le plan politique devrait, je pense, s'ac-  compagner, en Palestine, de progrès analogues eur le plan culturel, La conscience humaine ne peut  connaître la paix du simple fait du cessez-le-feu ; elle restera agitée tant que la Palestine sera victime  d'une agression qui porte atteinte à sa civilisation et à sa culture par la destruction de leurs éléments  distinctifs. A la longue, cette arme redoutable est en effet plus dangereuse et plus néfaste que l'agres-  sion militaire, Depuis des années, la ville de Jérusalem est exposée, Messieurs, à ce genre d'agression,  malgré les appels pressants, les recommandations sévères et la stigmatisation continue, à l'Unesco  comme au sein de 1'Organtsation des Nations Unies à New York, de l'action menée par les autorités  israéliennes d'occupation en Palestine et surtout à Jérusalera, Il est plus’qu'étrange que le seul Etat  créé par décision des Nations Unies se distingue par la violation de toutes les décisions de cette Organi-  sation et des institutions qui en sont iséues, et en premier lieu de l'Unesco : la Conférence générale et  le Conseil exécutif ont mis l'accent dans plusieurs résolutions - qui sont entre vos mains - sur la néces-  sité de ne pas changer la physionomie de la ville de Jérusalem, La communauté internationale et l'huma-  nité éntière ont le devoir de prendre toutes les mesures nécessaires pour empecher les autorités d'occu-  pation de la ville de Jérusalem de réaliser leur intention d'en altérer la physionomie culturelle et histo-  rique. Le Liban, les Etats arabes et un grand nombre de pays amis ont présenté un projet de résolution  à cet effet, et il faut espérer que ce projet sera adopté par les Etats membres, Il sera ainsi un moyen  plus efficace de dissuasion à l'égard de ceux qui ignorent ou violent les décisions des instances interna-  tionales et de préservation des valeura sacrées auxquelles toutes les communautés spirituelles du monde  sont attachées,
(10,13) En parlant de Jérusalem, je dois dire combien le Liban et tous les Etats arabes apprécient l'at-  titude de l'Unesco et sont heureux de la vofr s'apprêter à accueillir l'Organisation de libération de la  Palestine et les Mouvements de libération africains, La reconnaissance, par l'Unesco, des mouvements  de libération complète leur reconnaissance par les Nations Unies ; c'est la manifestation d'un esprit  éclairé et humain en même temps qu'une application pratique des principes eur lesquels reposent les  organisations internationales et une illustration de la manière globale et Intégrée dont ces organisations  abordent tous les problèmes humaine, Le peuple de Palestine est conscient d'une attitude plus positive à  son égard, liée À la reconnaissance, par la communauté internationale, de son droit naturel à la souve-  raineté et à la dignité, Cependant, il a besoin d'aide dans tous les domaines et notamment dana ceux qui  sont de la compétence de l'Unesco,
(10,14) Monsieur le Président, le Liban a accueilli à Beyrouth, il y a deux mois, un séminaire régional  sur la rénovation de l'éducation dans les pays arabes, organisé en coopération par la Commission natfo-  nale libanaise pour l'Unesco, le Centre de recherches et de développement de l'éducation du Liban et le  Bureau régional de l'Unesco pour l'éducation, au siègé duquel le séminaire a eu lieu, À cette réunion  importante ont assisté de nombreux exparts én matière d'éducation, de sociologie et d'économie, aux-  quels se sont jointe des convelllers nommés par l'Unesco et des observateurs des Nations Unies et des  organisations régionales arabes, Ce néminaire avait pour objet d'examiner la situation de l'éducation  dans les pays arabes, à la lumière du rapport de la Commission internationale pour le développement de  l'éducation et de proposer des solutions propres à vaincre les difficultés qui entravent le développement  de l'éducation, A ce propos j'ai le plaisir dé dire que le rapport de la Commisston internationale pour le  développement de l'éducation a servi de point dé départ aux discussions du séminaire régional, J'ai aussi
11,  le plaisir d'adresser mes remerciements et un salut chaleureux à la Commission nationale algérienne  pour l'Unesco, qui s'est occupée de faire traduire ce rapport en arabe et d'en produire une édition élé-  gante qui donne l'exemple d'un travail parfaitement soigné, Les enseignants arabes réunis dans ce sémi-  naire sont parvenus, en substance, au résultat que la rénovation de l'éducation est désormais ressentie,  dans chacun des pays arabes, comme un besoin national et comme l'une des conditions du progrès quali-  tatif et quantitatif de l'éducation. Les ressources nationales devralent être orlentées, en priorité, vers  la réalisation du progrès souhaité dans le domaine de l'éducation, Les délibérations et discussions ont  également révélé l'accord des participants pour considérer l'éducation permanente et Intégrée comme  l'objectif que les enseignants arabes espèrent atteindre ; or cet espoir ne saurait se réaliser par les  méthodes traditionnelles qu'a sufvies jusqu'ici le système d'enseignement, Monsieur le Président, je me  dois de mentionner ici, parmi les réalisetions de la Commission nationale litanaise, deux projets exé-  cutés par le Liban avec l'aide de l'Organisation : une étude sur la relation emre les possibilités d'accès  à l'éducation et les possibilités d'emploi qui s'offrent à la femme libanaise, et un séminaire sur l'ensel-  gnement et la formation agricoles, tenu à Beyrouth en mats/avril 1974,
(10.15) J'ai aussi le plaisir de signaler ici le travail fructueux entrepris par le Bureau régional de  l'Unesco pour l'éducation dans les pays arabes, créé à Beyrouth en vertu d'une résolution adoptée par la  Conférence générale à sa dix-septième session, L'Unesco a pris l'heureuse initiative de fournir à ce  Bureau régional les moyens et les éléments nécessaires pour lui permettre d'exercer une activité féconde  et de réaliser les espoirs fondés en lui, Le Liban souhaite que ce Bureau reçoive un complément d'aide  internationale afin qu'il soit en mesure d'accomplir sa tâche à l'égard des grands problèmes qu'il a été  créé pour résoudre,
(10.16) Madame la Présidente, toujours dans le domaine de l'éducation, j'ai plaisir à souligner un genre  d'activité auquel l'Organisation attache une importance extrême : c'est celui qui consiste à faire connaître  les réalisations de l'Unesco, et à diffuser ses nobles principes dans tous les milieux qui s'intéressent au  travail de l'Organisation, notamment les universités, les écoles et les organismes non gouvernementaux,  Ce travail est mené au Liban, en coopération avec la Commission nationale libanaise, par le Centre  d'action et d'information pour le développement et la compréhension internationale, qui publie l'édition  arabe de "Informations Unesco", bulletin rédigé par l'Unesco à l'intention de la presse et de la radio-  diffusion, ainsi que plusieurs autres publications, En outre, ce Centre organise des expositions sur dif-  férents sujets qui relèvent des domaines de compétence de l'Unesco ; 1l mène aussi une campagne pour  la préservation du patrimoine naturel et spécialement pour la conservation de l'environnement et des  ofscaux, sous les auspices.du Conseil national pour la recherche scientifique et de l'Université libanaise.
(10,17) Après avoir évoqué un certain nombre d'activités nationales menées par le Liban, et quelques  projets A vocation régionale, je voudrais souligner le soucf qu'a le Liban, dans tous les domaines qui  l'intéressent, de coordonner son action avec celle des pays arabes frères, Il importe au Liban que les  projets arabes tant régionaux que nationaux bénéficient hautement de l'intérêt de l'Organisation ; cela  s'applique aux Centres régionaux existant dans les pays arabes ainsi qu'aux projets nationaux qui inté-  ressent la communauté internationale dans son ensemble et qui possèdent une valeur inappréciable pour  le patrimoine culturel mondial, Je citerai, à titre d'exemple, la sauvegarde des temples de Philae, la  restauration du site de Carthage, la sauvegarde des monuments de la vallée de 1'Euphrate, Le Liban  désire profondément que l'Unesco accorde beaucoup d'attention à ces projets, notamment afin de sauver  ces monuments de grande valeur,
(10.18) Monsieur le Président, mon intervention se limite à ces principaux poiniz parce qu'ils méritent  particulfèrement, aux yeux de mon pays, de retenir l'attention de MM, les membres des délégations Ici  présentes, J'esnère avoir apporté, de la part du Liban, une modeste contribution aux travaux de cette  session, Mon pays est fermement convaincu que l'Unesco est un haut-l{eu de la pensée et qu'elle prête  généreusement son concours aux entreprises qui visent à assurer partout le progrès et le développement  de l'homme, Merci, Monsieur le Président.  El PRESIDENTE:  Agradecemos la declaracién del Excmo. Sr. Halim Safd Abu-Izzedin, jefe de la delegactôn  del Libano y damos la palabra al Excmo, Sr. Richard Burke, jefe de la delegacién de Irlanda,
(11) Le PRESIDENT, - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Je remercie S, Exe. M, Halim Safd Abu-Izzeddin, chef de la délégation du Liban, et je donne la pa-  role à S. Exe, M, Richard Burke, chef de la délégation de l'Irlande,
12.1 Mr. BURKE (Ireland):  Mr, President, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first ofall tobéassociated  with the congratulations which other speakers have extended to Madam Jébori on her election as  President of this eighteenth session of the General Conference. It is a great pleasure for me per-  sonally to recall that her country was a source of Inspiration to Ireland at a vital stage of our emerg-  ing independence, at the beginning of this century, when our leader, Arthur Griffiths, gave shape to  our own aspirations in describing what he called "the resurrection of Hungary".
12.2 Secondly; I wish to join with previous speakers who have welcomed new Member States to  Unesco. I welcome in particular the return of Portugal to the Organization.
12.3 I propose to make my address to this plenary session a brief one. To achieve this aim I  must, of course, be selective and single out for special attention a few topics from that wealth of  subjects and matter for detailed discussion which the Director-General has presented In the Draft  Programme and Budget for the biennium which Iles ahead,
12.4 Before proceeding fuither, however, I would like to say a few words by way of explanation,
80 as to avoid any possible misunderstanding that might result from my choosing to confine my re-  marks to a limited number of the topics arising from the Draft Programme and Budget. If, for  example, it should appear that my thoughts are concentrated on the more directly educational as-  pects of this Organization's work, my preference can be explained by the fact that I happen to be
302   the Minister for Education in the Government of which I am a member, and that I have been busily  engaged in recent months in effecting reorganization throughout our system. So much by way of  explanation. I hasten to add, however, that I hope it will not be inferred from my concentration on  one or two aspects of Unesco's programme that either I or the members of my delegation regard  the many other spheres of activity in which this Organization is deeply involved to be of secondary  importance or significance. This I assure you, is very far from being the case. But our time here  is understandably limited, one must choose between many headings, and what is included or passed  over in a statement such as this must be a matter of personal preference, I might also add that  considering the interdependence and interrelatedness of so many of Unesco's activities throughout  the world, he would be either a very wise or a very presumptuous person who would venture to  suggest a hierarchical order of importance in the case of the topics which might be raised in a  short address,
12.5 I have already mentioned the Draft Programme and Budget, the essential and farnillar "blue  book", officially but less attractively identifiable as document 18 c/s. It is, I need hardly remind  you at this stage, a very full and comprehensive document which encompasses within its almost  four hundred pages much information, all of it relevant to the work of the Conference and some of  it indeed set out In great detail. It is in every sense of the term a comprehensive document, as one  would expect the central and basic piece of documentation for a conference such as this to be. It is  at once a conclee history of past achievement in all fields of endeavour that come within the purview  of Unesco, a statement of the present position in regard to different areas in which the Organization  is actively engaged in projects, and a guide towards the route which that Organization proposes to  follow in the pursuit of its objectives.
12.6 I do not wish to speak at too great length on document 18 c/s. I must, however, draw atten-  tion to the fact that because of its bulk it is the type of document that might very easily have burst  through its binding and become utterly shapeless and unwieldy, if not altogether unreadable and  incomprehensible to all but a few wise souls. It is, therefore, a tribute to the careful preparation  devised by the Director-General and his staff that, far from becoming a source of mystification,  document 18 C/5 as presented to us provides what appears to me to be a clear exposition of the  challenging programme of work to which this General Conference must address itself so that the  Organization, and those charged with implementing the decisions of the Conference, may have a  clear appreciation and understanding of the nature and extent of the mandate entrusted to them for  the coming biennium.
12.7 I indicated at the outset, Mr. President, that [ have a special interest in educational matters.  May I say, therefore, that I heartily approve of the statement of the Director-General, who in the  introduction to document 18 C/5 wrote fn reference to education:  "The general line of policy running through the education programme is still basically the same  as that which, as a result of the effort of reflection and consolidation brought about in the course  of the work of the Commission on the Development of Education, was presented in the last Draft  Programme much more clearly than had been the case before. The programme is based on,  and can be summed up in, two major objectives: democratizeticnand regeneration, both viewed  in the context of life-long education made available to all, regardless of age or social circum-  stances, 1 see no reason to depart from this line, the rightness of which has been confirmed  by all the international and regional conferences of Ministers of Educationheld in recent years".
12.8 This is a clear restatement of very laudable alms with which none of us could, 1 feel, find  fault. But we are aware, too, of the immense variety of tasks that education 18 expected to accom-  plish today. We expect, for instance, that the ever-changing demands which are being made on  people in the age in which we live will be met by the education which the society of which they are  part provides for them. And today, as we all know, we live in an age when profound changes occur  with such suddenness that many feel bewildered, if not in near-despair and unable to grapple with  the myriad complex problems of modern life that confront them on all sides. One might echo Paul  Valery In his last poem when he wrote: “Sur le destin de l'ange qu'il portait en lui, pendant une  éternité il ne cessa de connaître et de ne pas comprendre ...'' but this is too sad a conclusion for  an Irishman to accept unreservedly. And I must take the poet at his word whenhe declared, earlier  in his lité, that he left the interpretation of his verse to his reader: "Mes vers ont le sens qu'on  leur prête", I prefer to take his meaning in the more hopeful sense expressed by Claudel when he  appealed to a more enduring symbol, declaring that “Jeanne d'Arc est là pour prouvér qu'il y a.  toujours quelque chose de mieux À faire que de ne rien faire". We must always seek not only to  know but also to understand, even if we cannot match that clear insight, that splendid inspiration  which is given but rarely, to those, like Jeanne d'Arc, who are moulders of future generations,
12.9 For, Mr. President, education, as we all know, is never just for today. Rather iu It for to-  morrow with all its unforeseen and unforeseeable demands and changed circumstances. But no  education, however forward-looking its planners or inspired its content, could ever hope to meet  adequately the manifold demands of today and at the same time anticipate tomorrow's. Hence, we  have come to realize, gradually and a little belatedly perhaps, that there is an inescapable need  for continuous life-long education for the individual.
12. 10° And I think that { should in passing draw attention to the fact that all education is for indt-  viduals and that it is the Individual person who must be equipped to deal confidently with life's
12 manifold problems, however wisely we may discuss structures - and there is an almost irresist-  ible temptation at times, I feel, to concentrate discussion on structures rather than on content or  on the real needs of people.
12,11 To return, however, to the subject of continuous life-long education. No longer can the edu-  cational process be confined, for the majority of people, to the period of their lives that lies be-  tween infancy and adulthood. No longer is education once acquired "a possession for ever", to  borrow the words of Thucydides, the historian, in a different context. This daily becomes more  evident to us. True education has, in today's circumstances, inevitably become a life-long pro-  cess, the demand for which will continue to grow and will have to be met. And the need for re-  generation at frequent intervals has also become clearer, The education we provide at all stages  must be submitted to frequent critical examination, assessment and reappraisal, so that in form,  content and emphasis it can be renewed as required, its objectives redefined and the pitfall of pre-  serving an outmoded and mis-called education, out of step with the world of reality and its demands  avoided.
12,12 In Ireland, as in other countries, there is a lively awareness of the need for continuous edu-  cation, I have, for instance, under examination at present the final report of a Speclal Committee  on Adult Education. I do not propose to speak on the details of the recommendations made by the  Committee, but they are clear and comprehensive. Suffice it to say, that the decisions which must  be taken when the report has been studied must inevitably have far-reaching implications for the  education of our people.
12.13 Higher education, its diversification and reorganization, is also a lively issue in Ireland at  present. We have already established new kinds of institutions of higher education and we foresee  an important rôle for them in continuous education. For us, therefore, Unesco's intention to pre-  pare studies that will: "bear on the problems of adapting higher education to the requirements of  life-long education, especially innovations and changes in the administration, planning, financing  and financial management of higher education as a result of the establishment of new kinds of insti-  tutions" 1s an exciting prospect.
12.14 We must never forget, of course, that the quality of education depends very much on the  teachers on whom the system rests and on the level of their qualifications, both academic and  pedagogical, We in Ireland are particularly fortunate in our teachers, not least because of their  enthusiasm for innovation, their interest in high-quality initial training and their willingness to  participate in in-service post-experience refresher courses. I am happy to say that from the be-  ginning of the present academic year the training period of our primary school teachers is being  extended from two to three years, and that discussions have heen taking place without universities  with a view to the award of a university degree to those who successfully complete that three-year  course,
12.15 We have also recently established a new National College of Physical Education and are at  present planning the establishment of a Training College for Specialist ‘Feachers on the same  campus.
12.16 I would like, in the few moments that remain to me, to refer, however briefly, to some  other topics from the programme, 1 spoke earlier of the interrelatedness of different facets of  Unesco's programme. Communication, for instance, is closely related to education and to culture.  The Irish National Commission, I am happy to report, has always shown an enthuslastic interestin  Unegco's commrnications policy. A good indication of this 1s the very active rôle which the Com-  mission, in conjunction with our Irish Institute of Public Administration, played in our participa-  tion in the Communication Policy Studies project with Sweden, Hungary, Yugoslavia and the Federal  Republic of Germany. The dedicated work of the Irish National Commission hasbeen rewarded with  the recent issue of a monograph on communication policies in Ireland. May I say thatthis isa proj-  ect in which we are very glad to have participated.
12.17 In relation to communication and culture, one of the important events in publishing in Ireland  in the past year was the issue, with the generous support and assistance of Unesco, of a work on  early Irish art under the title Treasures of Ireland. This work, the text of which was written by  Dr. Lucas, Director of the National Museum of Ireland, has been received with critical acclaim  and has roused the interests of other publishers in further examples of our national treasures,
12.18 And mention of the National Museum reminds me that last week a very successful seminar  on Museum Training and Administration, sponsored by Unesco, was held in Dublin,
12.19 Before concluding, I would Hke to refer to the Conference of European Ministers for Edu-  cation Hald in Bucharest, which it was my privilege to attend. It was an excellently organized and  most useful Conference. Indeed I hope to renew here the friendships I made there. 1 would like  especially to thank our Romanian hosts for the welcome and hospitality which was extended to us  on that occasion. Thank you very much, Mr. President,
(13) Le PRESIDENT, - (Traduit de l'espagnol, ) 12  Je remercie S, Exc. M. Richard Burke, chef de la délégation de l'Irlande, et je donne la parole à  S. Exe. M. I.N. Zemskov, chef de la délégation de l'Union des républiques socialistes soviétiques,
14.1 T-n H,H. JEMCKOB (Cows CoseTcknux Coimnannetnyeekux Peciybank):  Ypaxaemsñ Topapun Mpencexarerb, Mpexae BCEro NOIBONbTE MNOIAPABHTb TOB. Maray flo6opy  c n36panuem Ha BHCOKHH nocT lpeAcenaTens soceMnaauaToR ceccuu I"'enepansHoil KOHG@peHuHH H BEI  pasHTb yÔexAeHHOCTL B TOM, YUTO ONBIT TOB. Maram Ho6opy, ee ray6okoe suanne npoônem WHECKO  H O6meNpH3HaHHEIH Me XAyHAapoaHbiii aBTOPHTET MNOMOryT NpeACTaABHTE/IAM BCEX FOCYAAPCTB, MPHCYT-  CTBYOIIHX 3AECh, yCNeWHo peNHTL cTosmue nepea KonhepeHineñ OTRETCTBEHHBIG GAAGUH,
14.2 Me! AB/INEMCH CBHAGTE/NAMH TOrO, KaK MocTynaTeNbislil XOA HCTOPHH BHAOH3IMEHAET 3TH 3AAAUH.  OAHAKO HEeHIMEHHBIMH M NNOCTORHHMMH OCTADTCA KPHTEPHH H HA@A/bI, KOTOPHMH NpH3BaHa pyKOBOA-  cTROBATbCA Hama Oprannsauta. Cpean HUX Beaymee MECTO NPHHaAJIeXHT aKTHBHOMY H nocjeaopaTefib=  HOMy yKpelneHHn Bceobmero MHpa. M 3To 3aK0HOMepHO. BeAb COREPpMeHHO OYEBHAHO, AUTO TONbKO B  YCHOBHAX MHpa MOXeT CymecTBOBaTh GHArONPpHATHAN OÔCTaHOBKA ANA TOAREPXAHHE H Aa/ibBHEÂMETro  pacmnpeHua MexnyHapoaHoro COTPYAHHYECTBA BO BCEX OÔNACTAX COUHANBHON H 3SKOHOMHYECKOH XH3HH  HapozoB.
14.4 B HbHHEMHNX KOHKPeTHHX YCAOBHAX B peayabTaTe Gopn6st MHPONIDOHBEIX CHI, HACTORUHBHX yCH-  nui Conerckoro Coosa, BHCTyMabmero B TeCHOM 6paTCKOM € AHHCTBE C COIHA/NHCTHYECKHMH CTpAHa-  Mii, BO3HHKAH peallbHHE BO3MOXHOCTH KOPEHHOTO H3MEHEHHA ME XAYHAPOAHBX OTHOMEHHÀ, Ha cmeny  He AOBEPHD MNpHXOAHT BCe Gojee pacTymee COTpyaHWueCTRO, M copeTCKHA Hapa rOpnHTCa TeM BK/Aa”  ROM, KOTOPpHH BHeC/la Hama CTpaHa H MPOAONXAET BHOCHTb B O3AOPOBMCHHE Me XAYHAPOAHOH o6cTaHoB-  KH, B NPOLECC NPEBPAHEHHA MPHHUHIOB MHPHOTO COCYMECTBOBAHHA FOCYAAPCTB C PA3NHUHEM | COUN-  ANbHO-2KDHOMHYECKHM CTpoeM B obmenpH3HaHube HOPMEI OTHOMEHHA.,
14.5 B sToit CB53H MHpOBas OGMECTREHHOCTb CMNPABEANHBO OTMEYAET BHAANMY CA PONb, KOTOPY®  HrpaloT BCTPpeNH H Néberonops Pexepaïlbuoro cexperaps IK KIICC JI.H. BpexHesa ¢ pyKoBOAHTe/lH-  MH pñna BEAYMHX rOCYJapcTB pasHsx YacTeñ CBeTa. YMeCTHO HaNOMHHUTh, YTO B CKOPOM BPEMEHH CO”  CTOHTCA HoBas BCTpeya JI.H. Bpexnepa c MpesxaeHToM Ppanunn Xrckap a'OctexnoM, BaxHeñlxmH  BEXaMH Ha MYTH K NPOMHOMY H ANHTENBHOMY MHPY ABH/HCb TAKXE 3AK/IDU6HHE KOMMIeKCa AOTOBOPOB  H cornamenHil, saKpenHBuHX HE3HÔNEMOCTb NOCAeBOGHHMX TPaHHL Ha EBPONEÂCKOM KOHTHHEHTE, CO-  BETCKO-AMEpHKaHCKHe COor/lalieHus O NPCHOTBPAMEHHH HACPHOñ BOÏHE H 06 OTpaHHYEHHH CTpaTernue-  CKHX BOOpyXeHHñ, cosas» Cosemanns no 6e30NacHOCTH H COTPYAHWMECTBY B EBpone, Bégexte B pyc-  A0 NONUTHYECKOTO yperyAHpoBaHHa KOHQIHKTOB B Hunokurae, IOxnoñ Aauu H Ha BAuxHem Bocroke.  Bce peañucTHWeCKH MBICHANHO CHAM B MHpe NpHAanT NepsocTerlenHoe sHauente yrilyÔnNeHHM H 3aKkpe-  MIeHHD 3THX NONOXHTE@NBHEIX FNPOLUECCOB.
14.6 MuHHCTP nnocTpaHusix Aen CCCP A.A. T'poMHKO B BHCTyMIeHUH Ha 29-H ceccux l'exnepanbHoñ  Accam6ren OOH oTMeTHA, B YaCTHOCTH, BHYMHTENBHHE peayAbTaTH, KOTOphix yxe pocrurno Cope-  manne no 6e30MacHOCTH H COTPyAHHWECTBy B Eppoñe. OH 0co6o nonuepxnyn, uto "CoserckHH Cons  GyneT no-npexwemy Aemarb BCe AAA oSecneueHus NoñHoro ycnexa Cosemanua. Mit OXHJAEM, 4To Ha-  mu sanaïHbe MapTHeps! TaKXe KOHCTPYXTUBHO OTHECYTCA K 3TOÀ aanaye". JiononxenueM nonuruyeckodn  paspsaxH B Espone paspankoñ BOCHHOÀ MOXET pearnbHO CTaTh MONOXHTENbHbH HCXOA MNEPETOBOPOB B  BeHe 0 COKpATICHHH BOOPYXEHHEIX CHI H BOOpyXeHHH.
14.8 Upeansuaño BAXHHIM, MO HAWEMY MHEHHD, AB/DIETCH PACTYMHH HHTEpec K HHHLHaTHBE Coser-  ckoro Cobsa 0 CO3HaHHH CHCTEMH KOMNEKTHBHOR ÉesonacHocTH B Asux. IMonatto, YTo yrpepxneHne  Mupa H COTpyAHHYÉCTBA B A3HH OTBeYaeT KOPpeHHHM MHTepecaM BCeX A3HATCHHX Hapoños. JlocTuxe-  HHe xe 3THX Uerleñ - neno, Kacapmeecs Kaxnoñ CTPpaHsi AaHHOFO KOHTHHEHTA.
14,10 Monxen ocobo noauepkKHyTh, “TO ecau 61m ponpoc 06 ycrpaHekHH 3TOrO NPENATCTBHE HA NyTH  Mupa 3aBHCeN 6b TONBKO OT COLHANHCTHYECKHX FOCYAAPCTB, TO oh xapwo yxe Gun 61 pemex, Cymecr-  BéHHMH BK/ANA B Reno 60pL6H NPOTHB TOHKH ROOPyXEHHH BHOCAT T&KXe CTPAHH TPeTbero MHpa H npo-  rpeccHbHan OÔMEeCTBEHHOCTb MHOFHX TOCYRAPCTE,
14.11 B 6eayaepxHoM ROOPyXEHHH 3AHHTEPECOBAHE TONBKO BOCHHO-MPOMBIM/NEHHHE KPYFH HOKOTOPHX  CTPAH H CBAIAHHHE C HHMH MONHTHYECKHE AEeATeNH, KOTOPHE AABHO YXO CTABAT KOPLHCTHHE HHTEpecCH  BHIN® YAAHH CROHX Hapoñon. I'onka BoopyxeHuñ 6BeT NO BCEM FOCYAAPCTBAM, MO BCEM HAPOAAM.  Tlpo61ema pasopyxeHH# saTparHBaeT BceX, TIOSTOMy H 6paTbCA aa Hee neobxoaumo coobma. BaxHo  CKa3aTb 3T0 HMeHHOo 3XeCb B WHECKO - Oprahnaaunx, Koropas obreannser 134 rocynapceTea,
14.12 Ms! CYHTaeM CBOHM AOATOM eme pas HANOMHHTb, YTO BCE EME AbeTcA KPOBb B HHaokHrae, ak-  THBH3HPYOTCH MpOBOKALIHH CañroHCKOro pexHMa no BbeTHaMe, BHemHHe CHAH MEMAaNT Hapoñam Kam-  GoaxH oNnpeaenuTb cBOD COÔCTBEHNYD CYALÔY, He NpeKpamantTCa BOCHHME CTOAKHOBEHHA Ha Kunpe, no  ceñ AeHb H3paHiboxHe npasauxe KpyrH HarH@TaNT HANPANXEHHOCTb Ha BaHxHeM BocToke, 4TO peasb-  HO HeceT B ceGe ONaCHOCTB HOBOTO BOEHHOFO B3PHBA,
14,13 Co6tsTux B HunokuTae, po BbeTHame, Ha Kunpe H BriuxHeu Boctoke HarAH7HO MOKa3sIBaNoT,  UTO NyTh K OKOHYATeNbHON paspsaxe HalpA XEHHOCTH, MyTh K YTREPXAOHHD BCEOÔMErO MHpa TepHHeT  H TpyReH. Tem akTuBHee fonxusl 6HTH yCHIHA Hamed OpraHHaauuH no MOGHAH3AUHW MupoBoro obie-  CTBEHHOI'0 MHEHHA BOKPYTI HEOT/IOXHOIrO fie/la MHPHOIro H CMNPaBEANHBOTO ypery/IHpoBaHKHA BONPOCOD B  pañoHax HaNPAXKEHHOCTH H OCY XACHHA CHA PeakKUHH, NPENATCTBY IHX TaKOMy pemennn. OTa Heobxo-  AHMOCTb MOATBEPXAaeTCR CaMofi XH3HbD.
14.14 TIONtITKH peakUHOHHLIX CHA B PAINHYHEX YACTAX CBETA NOBEPHYTh BCMAATH KOJECO HCTOPHH, AH  CTUHTEABLHO, HME DT MeCTO, HO He OHH, He 3TH MONBITKH, ONpe Ae/IADT XapaKTep ConpeMeHHOro HCTOPH-  YeCKOrO pa3pHTHA., B OAHOM H3 CBOHX BhOTyNAeHNÀ JI. HW. Bpexues noquepkHyA: "Mel sHaeM npuMep  Yunu, rae peakuuu H amuaMy yaanock BpeMeHHO B3ATB Bepx. Ho Mu BHAUM H npuMep Mopryranux,  rae nocne NOAyBeKOBOIO rOCMONCTEBA K BNACTH NPHXOAAT AOMOKPATHYECKHE CHAE, BHpaxapomue HHTe-  pecs mHpoKHx cnoes Hapona. H He CoÛsITHA B Yuan, a coburua B MopTyranud nexar Ha reHeparb-  HOM HanpaB/eHuH o6mecTBeHHoro pasBHTH#. KoHeyHas noGepa CHA AeMOKPATHH H nporpecca HeHa-  Gexua",
14.15 YpaxaeMue generaThl. B 3TOM rogy Mb! mMHpOKO NpasaHoBarn 20-nerne BcrynaeHus Cowoaa  CoBerckux CouHanucrTHieckux Pecnybauk, YKpanuckoH Coserckoii Counanuctiieckoli Pecny6auxH  n Beropycckoñ CoseTckoii CouxanucTuueckoñ Pecny6nuku B HHECKO. Mu C yAOBNETBOPEHHEM OT-  MeyaeM pacTymne BAHAHHE H AKTHBHOCTh ITOH OPraHH38UHH B Me XAYHapoaHmx penax. DupaTcs pa-  AM TOCYAapCTB, BCTyMANOUX B Hamy OpraHu3auum, H CeroAHA Mb! TOPAYO MNPHBETCTBYEM NPeACTaBH~  Terreñ Kopeñcxoïñ Hapoano-JlemoxpaT#eckoH Pecny67ukx. Met NpHBeTCTByEM Takxe BCTyN/eHHe B  IOHECKO Mopryrannx, Can-MapHto, Manya-Hosoñ TBuxex 5 Hamubuu,
14.16 BoTyNNneHHe 3THX HOBHX FOCyRAPCTB-MAeHOB B JOHECKO, no HameMmy yGexzennm, eme Gonee  aKTHBHIHPYET ResTenbHoCTh OpraHH3aL{HH MO BbINONHEHHD peueHHH ceMHanuaTofi ceccuu Pexnepanb-  Holt xoudepeuuuu - 5 HMeD B BHAY pesonnuxp 10 "O pxnanñe WHECKO B neo MHpa, 6opb6»1 nporis  KONOHHa/lH3Ma, pacHaMa 4K anapreuaa’, GTOro xayt MHorue Gopromuecs Hapoan. M anecb XOTENOCB
14.17 BceM HxanecTHa noaxepxka CoseTckuM ConaoM cnpaseanusoii Gopb6sI Haponon paspHBa DIHX-  CA CTpaH. Mu CTOA/H y HCTOKOB HX Gop56sI NPOTHB KO/JOHHA/IH3Ma. Ha ncex ee aTanax MH Ha pene  NONACPXHBANH H GyneM noaaepxupaTh PA3BHBANIMHECA FOCYAAPCTBA. OTO Hama NPHHUHNHAZBHARA NIH~  HHA, H MH C Hee He CBepHeM.
14.18 Ha6awpapmanca sa nocne Aut nepuoa 6onee ahhekTHBHAN pearensHocth NHECKO B noanepx-  Ky HALIHOHA/NBHO-OCBQÉOAHT@ALHEX ABHXeHHH, ee BK/aK B paboTy CoBemanHa no 6e30NaCHOCTH H CO-  TpyAHHueCcTBy B Eppone, BceMupHOro xourpecca MHponbÔHBEX CHA KpacHOPEYHBO CBHAGTENLCTBY OT
0 TOM, YTO yXe MpoH3OMme/ NOBOPOT B Hamel MexAayHapoaHoH Opranxaauxx K NPAKTHYECKOMY pelieHHD  paxHeAimux npa6ieM COSpeMeHHOCTH. MH HE MOXEM He OTMETHTb 3M0Cb Ty POAb, KOTOPY B 3TOM CH -  rpan Dexepañbuti anpexTop IOHECKO r-u Pere Maño, MNONb3YNIQHACH BBICOKHM ABTOPHTETOM H 3a-  CAYXEHHHM YBAXeHHeM.
14.19 Mu Bsipaxaem yBepeHHOCTb B TOM, TO 3Ta Gnaropoaxas ACATEABHOCTB OHECKO MNonyuut  caoe RaNbHeñLes passHTHe H CTAHeT CTONb O63eMHOH, CKO/Nb 3TOrO TPeGynT CTPEMHTEANBHO pasBHBa-  DIMHECH COÛLITHA COBpeMEHHOTO MHpa.
14.20 MMenHHo c 3T0H YeAbD COBOTCKaA AeNerayus BHOCHT Ha Bame pacCMoTpeHHe ana NpoexTa peso-  noun: "O pxnaze WHECKO B geno Mupa H yKpérnnenns GesonacHOCTH HaponoB fiyTeM COMHCTBHA Npo-  eCcy paspAAKH MexAyHapoaHon HanpaxeHHOCTH H NPHAAHHA eMy HeoGpaTHMOro xapaxTepa" x "O BkNña-  xe WHECKO 5 pemenne npo6nemsl pasopyxeHHs H 06 ysacrux IOHECKO n xesTerbHOCTH OOH, Ha-  npaBneHHOR Ha BHNOAHEeHHe peaonnuxH N° 3093 XXVIII cecoux l'exnepansnoñ Accam6nexn OOH "O co-  KpameHHH BO6HHBIX ÉNAXETOB FOCYAAPCTB - MOCTOAHHMX YMEHOB CoBeTa BesonacHocrH Ha 10 npou. 4
14.21 Toropa 0 nepchekTuBax nameñ OprauxsauxH, MH BMpaxaeM yÔex4eHHCCTb B TOM, “To KHEXKO,  OoTpaxan VYOAHHA BCOX YECTHMX ADACH HA 30M/18, OTMETHT TPHAUATYD FOROBMHHY OKOHYAHHA BTOPOH  MHpoBOñ BOHN, CaMOÏ KpORONpoNHTHOR BOFHH, KOTOPY I KOrAa-1H60 sHana HÇTOPHA, BeccHepTeH  MNOABHF HAPOROB, OREPpXAaBIHX nobeny Han famusamom, Ham AONT - CBATO UTHTb MAMATL MHANHOHOB  NOrHÔMHX BO HMA XHaHH HHHemHero TpAAYMHX nokomenuñ. Ms npuamaaem BCEX Bac NOAREPXATE  BHOCHMBE COBETCKHM CONMIOM NPOEKTH peIONDUHA NO STHM BONPOCAM.
14.22 YeaxaeMile fefleraTH, YUHTHBAN YTO B AHW, KOTAA YONOBEUOCTBO GyAeT OTMEUATL TPHAUATH- 12  NeTHe OKoH4anHs BTOPofi MHPOBOR BOñHE, He ÉyneT Iacenauxñ D'eneparbHoï KondepeHUHH IOHECKO,  pa3pemute MHe OÉpaTHT&CA C npock6ofi k Bam, Tomapum llpeacenaTens, NONPOCHTL ACNCTAaTOB MNOUT  THT MHHYTOR MONYAHHH NAMATH TeX AGCATKOB MHNAHOHOB Mae, KOTOPpHe OTRa/MH CBOD XH3HB Gops6e  c $amHIMOM BO HMA TOPXECTDa AeMOKPaTHH, MHpa H Mporpecca; MOUTHTL NAMATE ADAOH, KOTOPHIM  MBL C BAMH OGA3aHN TEM, YTO CETOAFA HMEeM DPNIMOXHOCTb XHTb H paboTaTh BO HMA OÔBEAHHA DIHX  HAC NporpecCHBHEIX LJENEH, BO HM% YTBEPXACHHH MHPA H HEAONYMEHHA HOBOR BOHHB . Mossonbre 06-  paTHTLCH Ku BCeM C NPOCKÔON FCTaTh H NOUTHTb NAMATH NOTH WINX,
(14.1) M, ZEMSKOV (Unfon des républiques soclallstes soviétiques), - {Traduit du russe.)  Monsieur le Président, qu'il me soit d'abord permts de féliciter Mme Magda Jôborû de son élection  à la présidence de la diy-huitièzne session de la Conférence générale et d'exprimer la conviction que son  expérience, sa profonds connaissance des problèmes de l'Unesco et l'autorité dont elle jouit dans les mi-  lieux internalionaux aideront les délégués de tous les Etats ici représentés à régler efficacement les im-  portantes questions que doit examiner la Conférence générale.
(14.2) Nous savons par expérlence que la marche même de l'histoire transforme la façon dont se pré-  sentent ces questions, Malis les critères et les idéaux qui doivent gouverner l'action de notre Organieation  demeurent, quant % eux, permanents et inchangés, Celui qui se voit accorder la plus grande Importance  est celui qui veut que l'on travaille activement et avec persévérance au renforcement de ta paix mondiale.  Rien n'est d'ailleurs plus légitime, car il est tout à fait évident que seul un climat de paix offre des condi-  tions favorables au maintien et à l'élargissement de la coopération internationale dans tous les domaines  de la vie sociale et économique des peuples.
(14.3) L'Union soviétique a hérité de son fondateur, Vladimir Ilitch Lénine, une politique de paix, de ré-  sistance à l'agression et de défense des droits des peuples ; et vollà déjà plus d'un demi-stècle qu'elle de-  meure fidèle à cetle politique. Metitant en pratique les dircerives de politique extérieure du XXIVe Congrès  de son parti communiste, elle a jeté dans la balance de la p“!x tost le poids de son influence, tout le poid :  de son autorité.
(14,4) Dans les circonstances actuelles - telles qu'elles résultent de la lutte menée par les forces éprises  de paix et des efforts persévérants de l'Unfon soviétique, étroitement et fraternellement unie aux autres  pays socialistes - on voit se matérialiser la possibilité d'une transformation radicale des relations inter-  nationales, Le peuple soviétique se réjouit de la contribution que notre pays a ainsi apportée, et continue  d'apporter, à l'assainissement de la situation internationale et au développement du processus en vertu  duquel le principe de la coexistence pacifique des Etats à régimes soclo-économiques différents tend à être  partout considéré comme devant normalement régir les relations internationales,
(14.5) A cet égard, l'opinion publique mondiale attache À juste titre une très grande importance aux ren-  contres qui ont lleu entre le secrétaire général du Comité central du Parti communiste de l'URSS,  M, Brejnev, et les dirigeants de divers grands Etats disséminés à travers le monde. Rappelons à ce pro-  pos que M. Brejnev va encore rencontrer prochainement le président dé la République frança(se, M, Giscard  d'Estaing. Parmi les faits très importants pour l'établissement d'une paix solide et durable, 11 faut égale-  ment citer : la conclusion de toute une série de traités et d'accords qui ont définitivement fixé en Europe  les frontières de l'après-guerre, celle de l'accord américano -soviétique sur la prévention de la guerre  nucléaire et sur la limitation des armements stratégiques, la convocation de la Conférence sur la sécurité  et la coopération en Europe, et l'action entreprise en vue du règlement politique des conflits qui sévissent  en Indochine, en Asle du Sud et au Proche-Orient. Tous ceux qui, dans le monde, pensent de façon réaliste  accordent une Importance capitale au développement de ces processus de caractère positif.
(14.6) Le ministre des affaires étrangères dé l'URSS, M, A, A, Gromyko, a notamment tneteté, dans l'in-  tervention qu'il a faite A la vingt-neuvièmé session de l'Aosemblée'généräte des Nations Unies, sur les re-  marquables résultats auxquels a déjà abouti la Conférence sur la sécurité et ld noopération en Europe.  “L'Union soviétique continuera, a-t-il dit, à déployer tous ses efforts pour assurer le plein succès decette  conférence ; et nous espérons que nos partenaires occidentaux sauront aussi en occurrence se montrer  constructifs. " Une détente militaire venant s'ajouter à la détente politique, tel pourra être, en fait, le ré-  sultat positif des pourparlers de Vienne concernant la limitation des forces armées et des armements.
(14.7) Nous ne pouvons que nous réjouir de voir s'affirmer dans l'opinion publique mondiale la conviction  que notre tâche à tous est d'aider à l'inauguration, dans la vie de l'Europe, d'uné ère nouvelle, d'une ère  de relations raisonnables et de confiance mutuelle, Le simple bon sens permét en effet de comprendre que  Te maintien d'une paix solide en Europe, comme dans n'importe quel autre continent, constitue une condi-  tion indispensable de la paix mondiale et une garantie pour cette paix.
(14.8) Nous attachons une très grande signification à l'intérêt croissant que suscite l'initlative qu'a prise  l'URSS de créer en Asle un système de sécurité collective. Il est clair que le renforcement de la paix et  de la coopération en Asie répond aux intérêts fondamentaux de tous les peuplés as{atiques, La réalisation  des objeclifs que nous nous sommes fixés intéresse donc chacun des pays de ce continent,
(14.9) Les intérêts supérieurs des peuples du monde entier exigent Impérieusement que l'on vienne À bout  d'un problème encore non résolu qui fait obstacle à la détente internationale et à l'établissement de la paix  mondiale. Je veux parler du problème de la course aux armements.
(14.10) Il me faut spécialement souligner que, si la suppression de cet obstacle à la paix n'avait dépendu que  des Etats soclalistes, il y a longtemps que le problème serait résolu, Ont également contribué de façon  très importante à la lutte contre la course aux armements les pays du Tiers Monde et les milieux progres-  sistes de beaucoup d'Etats.
(14.11) La course effrénée aux armements ne sert que les intérêts de l'Industrie de guerre de certains  pays et des hommes politiques qui ont partie Îtée avec cette Industrie et qui, depuls longtemps, font pas-  ser leurs désirs égofstes avant les espoirs de leurs peuples. La course aux armements nuit à tous les  Etats et A tous les peuples, Le problème du désarmement nous intéresse tous ; et c'est pourquoi fl est in-
12 dispeusable que nous l'abordions tous ensemble. 11 est important de le dire {cl même à l'Unesco, organtsa-  tion qui groupe 134 Etats.
(14,12) Il est, croyons-nous, de notre devoir de rappeler encore une fois que le sang coule toujours en  Indochine, que le régime de Saigon multiplie ses provocations au Viet-nam, que des forces extérieures  empêchent les peuples du Cambodge de déterminer par eux-mêmes leur destin, que les actes de guerre se  succèdent sans interruption à Chypre et que, par la faute des dirigeants israéliens, la tension continue à  augmenter au Proche-Orient, toutes choses qui risquent de conduire à une nouvelle guerre,
(14.13) Les événements qui se déroulent en Indochine, au Viêt-nam, à Chypre etau Proche-Orient montrent  clairement que le chemin qui pourrait mener à une complète détente et à l'instauration décteive de la palx  mondiale est un chemin épineux et difficile. C'est pourquoi il importe que notre Organisation redouble  d'efforts pour mobiliser l'opinion publique mondiale en faveur de l'action à mener d'urgence pour résoudre  dans Ja paix et dans la justice les problèmes qui se posent dans les régions où existent actuellement des  tensions et pour faire échec aux forces réactionnaîres qui s'opposent à une telle solution, La vie même  montre que c'est là une nécessité.
(14,14) En divers lieux du monde, les forces réactionnaires ont tenté de renverser le cours de l'histoire,  mais ce n'est pas dans de telles tentatives qu'il faut chercher ce qui donne à l'évolution historique actuelle  son caractère propre. Je rappellerai à ce propos ce qu'a dit dans un de ses discours M, Brejnev : "Nous  connalesons le cas du Chili, où les forces réactionnaires et fascistes ont réussi à prendre le dessus. Mails  nous avons aussi l'exemple du Portugal où, après un demi-siècle de domination, on voit maintenant arri-  ver au pouvoir dec forces démocratiques qui incarnent les intérêts de larges couches de la population ; et  ce ne sont pas les événements du Chili, mais ceux du Portugal qui vont dans le sens général du développe-  ment social. La victoire finale appartiendra inévitablement aux forces de la démocratie et du progrès,"
(14,15) Messieurs les délégués, nous avons, cette année, célébré de bien des manières le vingtième anni-  versaire de l'événement qu'a constitué l'entrée à l'Unesco de l'Union des républiques socialistes soviétiques,  de la République socfaliste soviétique d'Ukraine et de la République soclaliste soviétique de Biélorussie.  Nous nous réjouissons de l'influence croissante que notre Organisation exerce sur les affaires internatio-  nales et de la façon dont se développe à cet égard son action, Le cercle de ses Etats membres est en train  de s'élargir ; et nous avons aujourd'hui la joie de pouvoir saluer {cl les représentants de la République po-  pulaire démocratique de Corée. Nous saluons aussi l'entrée à l'Unesco du Portugal, de la République de  Saint-Marin, de la Papouasie-Nouvelle-Guinée et de la Namibie,
(14.16) L'entrée à l'Unesco de ces nouveaux Etats va, nous en sommes convaincus, renforcer encore l'ac-  tion que notre Organisation a entreprise pour donner effet à l'une des résolutions de la dix-septième ses-  sion de la Conférence générale : je veux parler de la résolution 17 C/10 intitulée "Contribution de l'Unesco  à la paix et tâches de l'Unesco en ce qui concerne l'élimination du colonialisme et du racieme'. Nombreux  sont les peuples en lutte qui en attendent beaucoup, Et je voudrais à ce propos saluer tout spécialement les  représentants de l'Organisation de Hbération de la Palestine, >
(14.17) Chacun sait à quel point l'Union soviétique soutient le légitime ccmbat que mènent les peuples des  pays en vole de développement, Nous avons été à l'origine de la lutte contre le colonialisme, Dans toutes  les phases de cette lutte, nous avons soutenu - comme nous les soutiendrons encore - les pays en vole de  développement, Telle est la grande ligne de conduite que nous avons suivie et dont nous ne nous écarterons  pas.
(14.18) La façon dont l'Unesco a renforcé ces dernières années son action en faveur des mouvements de  libération nationale, sa participation aux travaux de la Conférence sur la sécurité et la coopération en  Europe et à ceux du Congrès mondial des forces de la paix, tout cela montre éloquemment que notre Orga-  nisation a déjà subi une évolution en vertu de laquelle elle est conduite à s'attacher toujours davantage à la  solution pratique des grands problèmes de l'heure, Nous ne saurions manquer de souligner à ce propos le  role qu'a joué en son sein M, le directeur général René Maheu, qui jouit d'une haute autorité et d'un res-  pect des plus méritée
(14.19) Nous sommes persuadés que lu généreuse action ainsi entreprise par l'Unesco se développera  encore dans l'avenir pour prendre toute l'ampleur qu'exige l'impétueux déroulement des événements que  connaît aujourd'hui notre monde.
(14.20) C'est précisément pour cela que la délégation soviétique se propose de soumettre à votre examen  deux projets de résolution ; l'un s'intitule "Contribution de l'Unesco A la cause de la paix et à la consolida-  tion de la sécurité des peuples par sa participation au processus de la détente internationale auquel il faut  donner un caractère frréversible"", et l'autre "Contribution de l'Unesco à la solution du problème du désar-  mement et participation de l'Unésco aux activités de l'Organisation des Nations Unies tendant à donner  suite à la résolution 3093 (XXVIII) adoptée par l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies et intitulée "Rédac-  tion de 10 % des budgets militaires des Etats membres permanents du Conseil de sécurité et utilisation  d'une partie des ressources ainsi 1ibérées pour l'aide aux pays en voie de développement’. "" Ce qui fait  l'essence de ces résolutions est, je l'espère, évident.
(14.21) A propos des perspectives qui s'offrent à notre Organisation, je veux exprimer la conviction que  l'Unesco, en qui tous les honnêtes gens de la terre ont mis leurs espoiré, né manquera pas de célébrer le  trentième anniversaire de la fin de la Deuxtème Guerre mondiale, de cette guerre qui fut la plus sanglante  de l'histoire et se termina par l'exploit immortel des peuples qui l'emportèrent sur le fascisme, Nous  avons le devoir d'honorer pieusement la mémoire des mililons de morts qui se sont sacrifiés pour les gé-  nératlons d'aujourd'hui et de demain. La délégation soviétique demande Instamment à toutes les déléga-  tions Ici présentes de soutenir les projets de résolution qu'elle a déposés au sujet des questions qui viennent  d'être évoquées.
(14,22) Messieurs les délégués, étant donné que, quand l'humanité célébrera le trentième anniversaire  de la fin de la Deuxième Guerre mondiale, la Conférénce générale de l'Unesco ne séra pas réunie, permet-  tez-moi d'iriviter notre Président à vous demander d'observer une minute de silence en hommage aux di-  zatnes de millions de gens qui sont morts en luttant contre le fascisme pour faire triompher la démocra-  tie, là paix et le progrès, en hommage A ces géna auxquels nous devons, les uns comme les autres, de
308   pouvoir aujourd'hui oruvrer pour la réalisation des objectifs de progrès qui nous unissent, pour le renfor-  cement de la paix et pour la prévention d'une nouvelle guerre. Permettez-moi de vous demander à tous de  bien vouloir vous lever et rendre hommage en silence à ceux qui ne sont plus,
(15) Le PRESIDENT, - (Tradult de l'espagnol. )  Je vous invite, Mesdames et Messieurs, à vous lever et à observer une minute de silence en hommage  aux victimes de la Deuxième Guerre mondiale, parmi lesquelles figuraient des hommes et des femmes de  tous les pays.
16.1 I'-u H.H. 3EMCKOB (Cons Coserckux CouxanneTueckHx Pecny6nuK):  Ypaxaembe AerneraTH. PesonounH, KoTopMe GyAyT npunaTi na Hameñ CeCCHH, pasHo Kax Mpo-  rpamMa IOHECKO, sBaTcs TeM qyHAAMeHTOM, Ha KOTOPOM CTAHET CTPOHTbCH ACATE/ABHOCT Hamel  OpraHn3alHH B NpeACTOAMEM NBYX/eTHH. Kacasce MpoexTa nporpaMMb, MpeacTasNeHHoro Ha pac-  CMOTpeHHe, HaM xOT@AOGb 6H BBICKA3ATb HEKOTOPHE NPHHUMTMHANbHHE COOÔpaxEHHA NO BONPOCY O CAO-  XHBIEHCA NpaxTHKe ero MOAFOTOBKH.
16.2 Tpanauuxonuo MpoekT nporpaMMil rOTOBHTCN CexpeTapHaTOM H MNpeACTAaBNNeTCA Henonunrens -  HOMY COBETy B BHAE TOTOBOTO ONYBAHKOBAHHONO 063EMHCTOrO ROKYMEHTA. M xaxoe-nu6o paauxañb-  Hoe ero HIM@HEHHE yXe Mas/loBepOsTHO H NPaKTHYECKH HEOCYMECTBHMO, TaK KaK BHeCeHHe CyYMeCTBEH-  HBIX CTPYKTYPHBIX H HHBIX MONPABOK O3Ha4ano 6H norepo BpeMeHH if CPEACTB.
16.3 JlymaeTcs, 4TO TaKyo NpaKTHKY ce HOBANO 6: HIMEHHTb, H3HCKAB  BO3MOXHOCTH y4aCTHA  MCNONHHTEABHOFO COBETA B CAMOM nponecce co3anawus Ilpoekra nporpaMMsl ao Toro, Kak aTor FMpo-  ekT 6yneT ony6briuKoBaH.
16.5 Xorenocb 651 OTMETHTB, YTO HMeHH0o IOHECKO sapuñacb HHHUHaTOpoM TaKOH NporpaMMBI, Kak  “"Yenosex u GHochepa". HasecTHo, uro ConerckHñ Con3 BHEC B NOBECTKY AHA ABAALUATL AeBATOH  ceccux PexepanbHoñ Accam6ren OOH B KauecTBe BAXHOFO H CPOYHOTO BONPOU "O sanpemeHHH BOsneñr  CTBHA Ha MPHPOAHY IO CPEAY H K/IHMaT B BO@HHEIX H HHBIX LEAAX, HECOBMECTHMNX C HHTEpecaMH obec-  Tieïlenna MexAyHapoaHoñ ÉesonacHocTH, 6/aTOCOCTOSHNA H 3ROPOBbH NACH" 1 NPOANOXHA 3AKADUHTD  Me XAYHAPOAHYD KOHBEHLUHD, KOTOopas Gbl NOCTABHAA WCMNONb3OBAHHE OKPYyXawmeli Cpe All B BOCHHEIX  uenax Hé sakoHa. IIPHHATHe TakOÏ KOHBEHLHH H COOTBETCTBY Oman paboTa JOHECKO B 3TOM HanpaB-  Nennx npeAOTBPpaTHAH Gti NoABNEHHE HOBHX CPEACTE BÉACHHA BORHH H CNOCOÔCTBOBA/H GH pemeHHp  BaxXHOñ ANA ye/lopeyecTBa IAAAUH.
16.6 Ms CYHTAEM TMONOXHTENbHHM CABHIOM BBeleHHe NPHHLKNA MNNaHHPORAHHA B paGory no Ha6opy  xanpos IOHECKO. 310 npexcrannser colfofi onpeneneHHMi CABHK NO CPABHEHU® C Npe xXHeñÂ NpakTu-  Kofi. ECTh apyrne NOAOXHTe/NbHMe MOMeHTH B NIP@ACTABNGHHOM HaM MpoekTe. OAHAKO HAPARY C 3THM  MMe TCA COp…e3HHÉ ONHÔKH, HenoCTaTKH H npoGensl, O HHX NOAPOGHO BIHICKAJHBAAUCE Heme Gyayr  BHCKa3HBaTbCA NPE ACTABKTEAN Halle generauHH B COOTBETCTBYDIHX KOMHCCHAX TeKymefi ceccun Pe-  nepanbHoñ koudepeHuUHH,
16.7 3aech xe, Ha NAeHapHOM 3aC@AAHHH, HAM NpeACTapNAeTCA LIe/1eCOOGPAIHHM MpHBNEUS Baie BHH-  MaHHe K Npoôreme GnaxeTa.
16.8 Fpexue BCero nossombre eme pas pas»sCHHTb HAL MPHHLHNHANBHBH MOAXOA K BONPOCY 06 oc-  HOBHBIX HATIPABN€HHAX ero HCMNONB3OBAHHA. BsiCTyNAA pewHTesbHO NPOTHB YPe 3IMEPHOrO H NOCTOAHHO-  ro pocra 6ipaxera WHECKO, KoTopsHH 3a nocñeauxe 6 net yseanyunca GakTHYWêCKH BABOC, MBI OTHDAb  He HMeeM B BHAy Kakoe-nubo Coxpamenne HAH CBepThiBanne TporpaMMy AeaTenbHOCTH Hamefi Oprann-
16.9 ToT npucxop6Hsñ GakT, 4TO CBsIMe 60 npou. OmaxeTa Hameñ OpraHW3aLHH HAT Ha COAepXaHKe  mTaTa COTPyAHHKOB H AAMHHHOTPATHBHHE MEponpHATHA, AONKEH CTATE MNPEAMOTOM OIAÔQUEHHOCTH Ka  Aoro rocyAapcTBa-4/MleHa.
16.10 STo - He nyumuñ cnocob pacnpeaenenna CpeAcTB. H ecnH, Kak Ha NOAYAC YKasHBAaNT, non06-  Has paKTHKa B H3RECTHOÏ Mepe CyMECTBYET H B HEKOTOPHX APYTHX M€ XAYHAPONHEIX OPrAHH3BUHAX,  To Hameñ Opratuæauxx caenana 6x YeCTb MONEITKA PeMHTEABHHM 06pa3oM H3MEHHTb TaKOE nofloxe-  HHe Aes.
16.11 Pesxoe CHHXEHHe npouyexros 6DAXeTa, HAYMHX Ha CONepxahHe LITaTa H Ha anMHHI(CTPATHBHHE  PpACXOAB, OTHDAb He ABAAETCA ANA HAC camouenbp. l'AanHaf Hama saÔ0TA COCTOHT BTOM,4T0ÔH CPeA-  CTBa, CSKOHOMHEHHbIE NO 3Tofl CTaTbe GmaxeTa, NpeaycMaTpusanmeñ aaMHHHCTPaTHBHHE PACXOAM,
12 HCHONb30BATb ANA Mporpa4dmst OprauHIalIHK, YTO B KOHEUHOM CYETEe O3HAYAGT HanNpanñeHHe ISTHX  Cpe/ICTB Ha NMOMOMBb pasBHBaDMHMCcA CTpaHaM.
16.12 Heo6xoaHMO HaM COBMECTHO BIATH BOTpOC HOPMA/NHIALHH TAaKOTO TONOXEHHS Noa CBOË Heocnab-  HBIH KOHTPO/Ib H COBMECTHHN MH YCH/IHAMH Pe MUTh ero B CAMOM HenaneKkoM Eyayme M.
16.13 Jlenerauus CCCP, on06pan B nptsukne GakT COIAAHHA AONTOCPOYHOTO Natal HaGopa xaapos  IHECKO, BHpaxaeT CBOD OIAÔOUEHHOCTb TOM, YTO OH CTpajaeT Cepbe3HbIMH HEAOPAÔOTKAMH, a noa-  “ac COnepxHr HeBepHile, Ha HAW BIT/NAA, HCXORHME KOHLIENLHH, Manan CopHeHTHpoBaH Takum 06pasoM,  UTO K 1978 roay Yucno CoTpyAHHKOB nepenpeaACTABAeHHEIX FOCyRapCTB-4/eHOB GyneT "cHiuxeno" go  MaKCHMa/IbHOÏ XBOTH yKadaHHHX rocyaapcTs. OAHaKO K TOMy Xe CPOKY Henonpe ACTaBAeHHbe CTPAHEI  HME DT TYMAHHYD BO3MOXHOCTb AOCTHYb MHHHMA/BHOTO ypPOBHA cBoeli KBOTE, Inau wabopa KaapoB  HarAA AHO NOKA3HBACT rAy60KO HeYHOBNETBOPHTE/AbHOE NONOKEHHE, CYMECTBRYDMEE B OpPraHH3ALIHH B  ponpoce o reorpaduyeckuM pacnpeAerneHHH FMOCTOB.
16.14 MoxnepxHBax NPHHUKN RONTOCPONHOTO MITAHKPOBAHHA JOHECKO, Mu xoTenu Gb Bipa3uTh yBe-  PpeHHOCTb B TOM, NTO MNAHH, coajaBaeMblie B Hamel OprauusauxH, GyayT nepepaGaTHBAaTBCA H COBEP-  MEHCTROBATBCA C TeM, YTO6H OTBEVATL B HAHÉONbmEñ CTEMEHH HHTepecaM rOCyYRAPCTB-U/NGHOB.
16.15 Ypaxaemsñ rosapum Hpexcexarernb, ypaxaeMtle aeneraTsl. IIO3BOALTE BHPA3HTL YBOpeHHOCTb  B TOM, YTO BOCEMHaaUaTan ceccus l'enepanbHoñ KAHJopeHuxH WHECKO ABHTCA 3HAYHTE/LHEM STANOM  B XH3HH Hameñ OprauH3alUHH, B aKTHBH3ALIHH ee paboTH B NoNnb3y BCeoÔmero MHpa, KO/NeKTHBHOH 6e-
30NACHOCTH B EBpone, AaHx H Ha ApyrHXx KOHTHHEHTaX Hameñ nMaHeTM, G0pBÔb NPOTHB KONOHHANH3MA  H pacHaMa, C TeM YTOÔHI MPHÔANHI3HTb Yac, KOTrjxa Ha BCeñ 3eM/le BOCTOPXECTByET pasyM, MHp H Npo-  rpecc.
16.16 Ilo3B05bTe saBepHTb Bac, yBAXa@MbO Jle/leraThi, YTO HAUIE COBETCKOE TOCYAAPCTBO, BEPpHOe  CBOHM N8HHHCKHM NpHHUKNAM, POTOBO H B OHECKO NonwocTbD BHECTH CBO BK/AA B 3To 6naropoauoe  Aero! Braronap» Bac sa BHHMAHHe.
(16,1) M. ZEMSKOV (Union des républiques socialistes soviétiques). - (Traduit du russe.)  Messieurs les délégués, les résolutions que nous allons adopter au cours de celte szssion constitue-  ront, avec le programme de l'Unesco, les bases sur lesquelles s'organiséra l'activité de notre Organisa-  tion pendant les deux arnées à venir. A propos du projet de programme qui nous est soumis, la délégation  soviétique voudrait formuler quelques réflexions générales sur la méthode traditionnelle qui à présidé à  sa préparation.
(16.2) Selon la tradition, le projet de programme est préparé par le Secrétariat, puls présenté au Conseil  exécutif sous la forme d'un volumineux document irnprimé, A ce moment, il est déjà pratiquement impos-  sible de lui apporter des changements importants et quiconque voudralt lui apporter des modifications de  fond ou de structure ne ferait que gaspiller son énergie et perdre son temps. 4
(16,3) Nous pensons donc qu'i) faudrait changer la pratique existante et faire en sorte que le Con! ell exé-  cutif puisse participer à tout le processus d'élaboration du projet de programme jusqu'au moment 30 celuf-  ci est publié. Â  \
(16.4) Quoi qu'il en soit, le projet de programme actuellement soumis à la considération de la Conférence  générale est, à blen des égards, convenablement orienté, pulsqu'il comprend notamment des éléments tels  que les suivants ; lutte contre la discrimination dans le domaine de l'éducation, défense des droits ded \en-  selgnante, approche méthodique des problèmes qui ont trait à l'éducation et à la formation du personnel, ‘édu-  cation vieant à inculquer À la jeunesse et aux adultes l'esprit de paix et d'amitié entre les peuples, proxy  grammes concernant "L'homme et la blosphére ou la "corrélation géologique", UNISIST, programmes‘  concernant l'océanographie et l'hydrologie, utilisation des sciences soclales et de l'information en faveur  de la paix, défense des cultures nationales, etc.
(16.5) Je voudrals faire remarquer que c'est l'Unesco qui a pris l'initiative du programme "L'homme et
1a biosphère". On sait que l'Un'on soviétique & fait mettre À l'ordre du jour de la vingt-neuvième session  de l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies la question, à son avis importante et urgente, qui a été formu-  lée comme sult : "Interd::tion d'r giz >. j'environnement et le climat à des fins militaires et autres incom-  patibles avec le maintien de J: sécurité internationale, le blen-être et la santé de l'être humatn" ; et l'on  sait aussi qu'elle a proposé l'adoption d'une convention internationale qui fnterdirait toute action sur l'en-  vironnement À des fins militairés. L'adoption d'une telle convention et le travail que l'Unesco pourrait  accomplir dans le même sens empêcheralent l'apparition de nouveaux moyens de guerre et contribueraient  à la solution d'un problème qui présente une grande importance pour l'humanité.
(18.6) Le principe d'une planification du travail auquel donne lieu le recrutement du personnel de l'Unesco  nous paraît digne d'être approuvé. Son application aboutira, croyons-nous, à un net progrès, Le programme  qui nous est proposé contient d'ailleurs d'autres éléments positife. Mails on y trouve aussi des ‘défauts, des  insuffisances et des lacunes, que les membres de nos délégations ont déjà soulignés et souligneront encore  au sein des commissfons compétentes de notre Conférence générale,
(16,7) Mais ic1 même, en séance plénière, il nous paraît utile d'attirer l'attention générale sur le pro-  blième du budget.
(16.8) Qu'il me soit d'abord permis de préciser notre attitude à l'égard des principales modalités d'utili-  sation du budget, En nous élevant contre la façon démesurée dont ne cesse de croftre le budget de l'Unesco  - qui a pratiquement doublé depuis six ans - nous ne songeons nullement a préconiser une quelconque ré-  duction du programme d'activité de notre Organisation, programme qui eat d'une grande utilité pour tous  les pays ét en particulier pour les pays en vole de développement,
(16.9) Malis, que plus de 60 % des crédits Inscrits au budget de notre Organisation servent à couvrir des 12  dépenses de personnel ou des dépenses administratives, c'est là un fait fâcheux qui devrait préoccuper  tous les Etats membres.
(16.10) Un tel môde de répartition des ressources n'est certes pas le meilleur possible, Et s'il est vrai,  comma on le dit parfois, qu'il prévaut aussi jusqu'à un certain point dans d'autres organisations internatio-  nales, fl serait à l'honneur de l'Unesco d'essayer de modifier cet état de choses,
(16,11) Un fort abalssement du pourcentage du budget qui est consacré aux dépenses de personnel et aux  dépenses administratives ne saurait en aucun cas constituer à nos yeux une fin en soi, Notre principal  souci est que l'on arrive, grâce a la réductiop des dépenses administratives prévues au budget, à rendre  disponibles des sommes qui puissent servir à l'exécution du programme, donc faciliter, en fin de compte,  l'aide aux pays en vole de développement.
(16.12) Il est indispensable que cette question d'une répartition plus normale des ressources budgétaires  fasse, de notre part à tous, l'objet d'une attention sans relâche et que nous unissions nos efforts pour ten-  ter de la régler dans un très proche avenir.
(16.13) Tout en approuvant en principe l'établissement du plan à long terme applicable au recrutement du  personnel de l'Unesco, la délégation de l'URSS constate avec une certaine inquiétude que ce plan aurait en-  core besoin d'une sérieuse mise au point et repose parfois, à son avis, sur de fausses prémisses, Ce plan  vise à obtenir que le nombre des fonctionnaires relevant de tel ou tel Etat membre surreprésenté se trouve  ramené en 1978 au niveau du quota maximum auquel peut prétendre cet Etat ; mais la possibilité qu'auront  les Etats sous-représentés d'atteindre dans le même délai les chiffres correspondant pour chacun d'eux au  quota minimum demeure douteuse. Le plan de recrutément du personnel fait clairement apparaître l’exis-  terce à l'Unesco d'une très mauvaise situation en ce qui concerne la répartition géographique des postes.
(16.14) En approuvant, dans le cas de l'Unesco, le principe de la planification à long terme, nous voulons  exprimer le ferme espoir que les plans actuellement en cours d'élaboration au sein de notre Organisation  parviendront, en se perfectionnant, à servir encore mieux les Intérêts des Etats membres.
(16.15) Monsieur le Président, Messieurs tea délégués, permettez-mol d'exprimer la conviction que la  dix-huitième session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco marquera une nouvelle étape importante dans  la vie de notre Organisation et contribuera au succès de l'action entreprise pour l'affermissement de la  paix mondiale et pour la sécurité collective des peuples de l'Europe, de l'Asie et des autres continents,  aussi bien que pour l'élimination du colonfalisme et du racisme, afin que se rapproche le moment où triom-  pheront partout la raison, la paix et le progrès,
(16,16) Permettez-mol d'affirmer, Messieurs les délégués, que l'Btat soviétique, fidèle à ses principes  léninistes, est prêt à apporter son concours à l'Unesco dans la noble tâche qu'elle a assumée. Je vous re-  merclie de votre attention,
(17) Le PRESIDENT, - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Je remercie S. Exc, M, Zemskov, chef de la délégation de 1'Unlon des républiques soclalistes sovié-  tiques, et je donne la parole à Mme Judith Hart, chef de la délégation du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne  et d'Irlande du Nord.
18.1 Mrs. HART (United Kingdom):  Mr. President, I would like to associate myself first with the warm congratulations to Mrs.  Jébord on her election as President by this Conference, and I think that the mood and spirit of  women's liberation would allow me to recall that at the founding Conference of Unesco in London  in 1945, it was a woman, my old and respected comrade Ellen Wilkinson, who was the Chairman.  I think that Mrs. Jébord will have the good wishes of all of us for success, of which there can be  no doubt, in the task that she will perform in the time ahead.
18.2 I would also like, if I may, to assoctate myself with the very warm welcome to the new  members who have joined Unasco at this Conference. I should like to make particular mention of  one, | think. It is with great joy that we welcome Guinea Bissau on its accession as an independent  State to membership of Unesco and the return of Portugal in the exciting new conditions of freedom.
18.3 I appreciate, as I think we all do, that this is something of a year for United Nations meet-  ings and conferences. We have had the Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly,  we have had the World Population Conference in Bucharest, the Law of the Sea Conference in  Caracas and in a few days time we will have the World Food Conference in Rome. And I think  these indicate the emphasis that there now ls on the immediate urgencies of the situation for the  Third World. But most of us know that the special conferences are held against the background of  the steady work of the Specialized Agencies of the United Nations and of all of us who are not only  involved in but committed to Third World development, And it is the steady work of the agencies.  which perhaps at the end of the day makes the biggest contribution and matters most. Conferences  and special conferences focus attention on issues; and sometimes they can be useful in bringing  governments to points of decision on many of those important issues and, hopefully, to points of  decision which are useful and progressive. But it is the steady work of the agencies which in the  event determires the conference agendas and which set the pace for development. .
12 18.4 So I regard this eighteenth session of the General Conference of Unesco as one of the most  important of this year's meetings. And what I want to say today concerns principally, if not ex-  clusively, Une co's vital rôle as an agent in the development process. I am not altogether always  certain that Un2sco itself completely and fully appreciates its importance as an agency for Third  World development, But, of course, it must, Education and science, and the effective applica-  tion of science and technology, these are the essence and the mainstream of the development pro-  cess. Some of our internationally agreed phraseology in the consensus which emerges after hours  of discussion of resolutions and communiqués, usually stretching to midnight and beyond, is in-  evitably, I suppose, so innocuous as to be apparently anodyne and unconstructive. But bit by bit  we do move things forward and that is what matters.
18.5 On our agenda for this Conference we have the following item: ‘Ways and means by which  Unesco should contribute, in its fields of competence, to the establishment of a new economic  order". I know that there were some reservations made by some governments about the relevant  Declaration by the Special Session of the General Assembly. But a real advance was made in our  agreement to talk and act together. And a key question I want to put today is this. How best can  Unesco help in the present crisis facing the developing countries? We all know how grave the sit-  uation is for the poorest and least-developed countries and for the countries most seriously  affected by the price Increases In oil and other commodities, whose capacity to sustain their peoples,  let alone to make further progress, is now threatened.
18.6 It Is against this background that I would like to make a few comments on the future. The  fundamental purposes of Unesco, as they are set out in the Constitution, are so wide-ranging that  quite inevitably choices must be made between the activities which are to be undertaken at any one  time. The last session of the General Conference passed an important resolution on the subject of  long-term and medium-term objectives. I am sure that this was a right thing to do, and I know  that the United Kingdom delegation took a leading part in promcting that resolution. However, It  is clear to us now that none of us realized just how great was the task and the length of time that  might be needed to accomplish it. We have fallen behind the time-table envisaged in that resolu-  tion but there has, nevertheless, been progress. The Director-General has identified, in docu-  ment 18 C/4, twelve major world problems of direct concern to Unesco. And I agree with his list,  But he did not feel able to go on to suggest u number of medium-term objectives in order of priority.  The Executive Board has recently grappled with this question, but in spite of its best endeavours it  too has not been able to suggest an order of priorities to this Conference, and a detailed discussion  of the matter now falls to Commission V.
18.7 On the question of priorities, I would strongly urge that development assistance to the Third  World should be of dominant concern in this decade and the next. It is possible that Commission V  will also not be able, even in that context, to solve the problem of medium-term objectives, and  will suggest that the Executive Board and the Director-General should renew their efforts in the  spring of next year. But I am sure that we will get there in the end.
18.8 I do, however, offer two warnings. One is that all our efforts will have been in vain, if the  final result is simply a reclassification under different headings of all that Unesco does now: a  simple rearrangement of the hundreds of individual projects that appear in document 18 C/5. The  whole purpose uf deciding upon medium- and long-term objectives must be to concentrate the  activities of Unesco and eliminate those which, although obviously possessing intrinsic merit, are  not vital to the work of the Organization in the present world situation. I do not underestimate the  difficulty’ of doing this, especially in respect of the staffing implications, to which the Director-  General has made some reference in the Introduction to document 18 C/5, but it is à task that we  must face. My second warning is that we should not delude ourselves into thinking that the crea-  tion of a six-year plan related to medium-term objectives, if we are successful in preducing one,  is the whole answer to what we want to do. Just as important is the content of the individual proj-  ects which make up the plan, and this is something over which we must always be watchful.
18.9 As a Minister of Overseas Development, I am continually concerned with the question of  whether the technical assistance that we offer the developing countries, the transfer of knowledge  and technologies, or their use to help in finding appropriate know-how and techniques, {s of the  right kind, Indeed, in ‘a book I published early laat year, which I called "Aid and Liberation", 1  gave some consideration to the programmes of the United Nations, and to their effectiveness  within thé present institutional arrangements, I evén wondered about the degree of effectiveness  of Unesco. I said that the Crgçanization sometimes gives the impression, and I admit that this was  possibly unfair, that its work is somewhat rarified and esoteric, and more concerned with culture  than with mass educatisn, I also wondered how far development assistance to education over the  years has been too mush directed towards recreating in the developing countries the patterns of  education which have bècome traditional in the rich countries.
18.10 So I am particular)? glad now to have an opportunity to get to know Unesco better and to see  whether or not my critiqué'was fair or unfair. And in the field of education I especially welcome  the four important meetings tint are planned for the next biennfum: those concerned with follow-  ing up earlier conferences In La‘in America and the Caribbean and in the Arab States, the pro-  posed further conférence of Min{éters of Education of African Member States and the proposed  meeting of senior officials of thé Ministries of Education of the twenty-five least-developed  countries.
18.11 Mr. President, we must be as sure and certain as we can be that the structure and content 12  of the education programme for the doveloping countries is right. ! would hope that two criterla  can be applied in determining them. First they must benefit the poorest countries and thé poorest  people. Iam always a little afrald that the values and the educational patterns of the industrialized  countries have indeed exercised too much influence on those of the developing countries. And a  little afraid that too often this may even continue to be the case, It is very easy to understand why  this should be so, where it is 50, since colonialism and imperialism represented a total relation-  ship involving cultural as well as economic dominance and exploitation. The élitism.of our indus-  trialized socleties in the past, which many of us in cur own countries now seek to replace by equal  opportunity and greater equality-in the distribution of wealth and power, was often reproduced in  the developing countries. And this gives rise to some questions: how, against a background of  scarce and inadequate educational resources, are they, the developing countries, to avoid élitism;  how, against an inheritance of Western patterns of education, are they todevelop their own patterns,  patterns which are appropriate to their own situation; how can they best be helped when so muchis  needed to bring literacy to their people; how can educational assistance best contribute to their  priority need for rural development? If, Mr. President and distinguished delegates, if these are  the relevant questions to ask, as I believe they are, it follows that the second criterion to be  applied to Unesco's work for development is that it should assist in finding the right and appropri-  ate answers, not only in its technical assistance programmes but In its own research under its  Regular Programme.
18.12 In the time that we have at our disposal in this debate, and I hope that I do not exceed mine,  it is not possible to give enough attention to all aspects of the proposed programme for the years  ahead and to the six-year medium-term plan that is, we hope, beginning to emerge, 1 will not  attempt the task; other members of my delegation will be contributing to the detalled discussions  in the Programme Commissions.
18.13 I would, however, like to pay tribute to the programmes of Unesco in the field of the  natural sciences. In this field, Unesco already has a tradition of major programmes, over sev-  eral years, which have made, and are continuing to make, an important contribution to the  advancement of mankind, from which all Member States derive benefit, It is perhaps the co-  operation that Unesco has always fostered in the field of sclence that leads me to my next thought.  I was interested to hear of the recent reaction of the Executive Board in welcoming the resolution  of the Economic and Social Council on a United Nations programme in science and technology but  at the same time expressing concern lest that programme should lead to the establishment of  another set of institutlonalized arrangements, in effect another Specialized Agency. I think this  reaction was right because it expresses a real concern that we should all work towards maximum  effectiveness in the United Nations family. We should not, we cannot, encourage the multiplica-  tion of arrangements and institutions. We must make more effective those which we now have.
18.14 Perhaps, some years ago, Unesco may have tended to regard itself as unique and to some  extent apart from the remainder of the United Nations system, Now, I hope, it fully accepts that  in these days we must all work within the framework of the resolutions of the General Assembly,  through the Economic and Social Council, so that the combined efforts of the Second Development  Decade are made to best effect.
18.15 And this brings me to almost my final point, that of relations between this Organization and  the United Nations Development Programme. We all know that a substantial part of what Unesco  does for the developing countries is only made possible through the financial resources of the  UNDP - and my own Government is a large voluntary contributor to those resources, Sincel am  responsible, as a Minister, for both my Government's relations with Unesco and its relations with  the UNDP, I do not want to, and indeed cannot, take sides in what has sometimes seemed to be a  family quarrel. I do hope, however, that the recent marked improvement inunderstanding between  UNDP and Unesco will be strengthened, and that before long we shall all begin to see the benefits  of the fairly recently introduced system of Country Programming.
18.16 I said, Mr. President, that my Government is a big voluntary contributor to the resources  of UNDP. We also make important voluntary contributions to the United Nations Children's Fund,  to the World Food Programme, to the United Nationa Fund for Population Activities, and to the  funds of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Because of this, we pay special  attention to those parts of the United Natiors system where we pay an assessed contribution. And  I confess that we were worried, this time, by the very great increase proposed for the budget of  Unesco. I am glad that the United Kingdom was able to play its part in bringing about a consensus  on the budget level for 1975-1976, and to vote for that level in this Conference. We did not want  to see a confrontation of any kind between the developed and the developing countries, and we hope  that we helped to avoid it. To support the budget cefling at the level now accepted by the Confer-  ence was not, however, an easy decision to take in the context of our present national economic  circumstances.
18.17 [am grateful, Mr. President, for the way in which members of the Group of 77 understood  the position of some of our countries aad came part of the way to meet us. Because of this, I hope  they will not misunderstand my final suggestion. There is talk, and rightly so, of Unesco being at  the cross-roads, at the beginning of a new era in its history. All considerations of money apart  and with only consideration of the quality of our work in mind, and the availability of adequately
12 skilled staff to carry out that work, I cannot help wondering whether for the next bienniur\ after
1975-1976 - and I am speaking only of the period 1977-1978 and not beyond - we do not need a  pause of stability rather thAn growth, so that Unesco can take breath to revitalize itself for the  challenging tasks ahead,
18.18 Mr. President, we shall shortly, in this Conference, be paying a richly deserved tribute to  a Director-General who has given his life to the work of Unesco and has been one of its chief  sources of inspiration in the last twelve years. I would like to associate myself with the tributes  which I know will be paid to him. We shall also soon welcome a new Director-General, someone  who will come from the developing countries themselves, and no oné welcomes this more whole-  heartedly than I do.
18.19 In conclusion, Mr. President, may I say that this Conference may well prove to be a his-  toric turning point in the work of Unesco, the start of an intensive re-examination of our priorities  and a greater concentration of our effort where it is most needed, and I hope, an even greater re-  alization of the challenge which faces Unesco in its task of assisting the developing countries. I  can assure you that Unesco will have every possible United Kingdom support in the endeavour to  make the Organization as effective as it can be in the pursuit of our common aims in a very chal-  lenging world, which confronts the developing countries, particularly, with s6 many grave prob-  lems. I trust that this Conference will itself take us further forward in the effort to assist them.  Thank you.
(19.1) Le PRESIDENT. - (Traduit de l'espagnol. ) ;  Messieurs les délégués, avant de clore cette douzième séance plénière, je voudrais vous annoncer que  S, Exec. M. M, Ustundag, chef de la délégation de la Turquie, a demandé à prendre le premier lu parole  cet après-midi pour faire, en usant de son droit de réponse, un bref exposé ; on a, dans notre Organiea-  tion, l'habitude de donner satisfaction aux demandes de ce genre.
(19.2) Interviendront ensuite les délégués inscrits sur la liste d'orateurs que vous avez tous entre les  mains, Le chef de la délégation du Danemark prendra donc la parole après le chef de la délégation de la  Turquie et les intervenilons se succéderont ensuite dans l'ordre qui a été annoncé. Je déclare close cette  douzième séance plénière. Je vous remercie.  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.  La séance est levée à 13 h. 16 |  Se levanta la sesién a las 13. 15