Thirteetith plenary meeting
24 October 1974 at 3,20 p.m,  President; Mrs. Jébord (Hungary)  Treizième séance plénière
24 oxrabpa 1974 r. B 15 4.20 MuH.  ie dW) LW) Ado]  cont deny BLL rave IY ou 5) pa Ye  (=~ Un 3valL Baad as dt  MESSAGES ON THE OCCASION OF UNITED NATIONS DAY  ENVOI DE MESSAGES A L'OCCASION DE LA JOURNEE DES NATIONS UNIES  ENVIO DE MENSAJES CON MOTIVO DEL DIA DE LAS NACIONES UNIDAS  MOCJIAHHS NO CHYYAD JHA OPT AHH3ALHH OBBEAHHEHHEIX HALIM  Basa dt pe V1 py Jin Naples JL,
1.1 The PRESIDENT  The meeting is called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, before we take up our business for  this afternoon, I would like to remind you that today, 24 October, is United Nations Day. On this  occasion, I propose, if you agree, to send to Mr. Buteflika, President of the twenty-ninth session  of the General Assembly of the United Nations, the following message; "On this twenty-ninth  anniversary of the coming into force of the United Nations Charter, I send you on behalf of the  eighteenth session of the General Conference of Unesco, which brings together in Paris 133 Mem-  States and three Associate Members, as well as on my own behalf, our sincere wishes for the full  success of the work of the twenty-ninth General Assembly. Allow me to take advantage of this  United Nations Day to assure you of our complete solidarity and renewed desire for close co-  operation in our common effort to achieve the noble objectives of the United Nations Charter and  the Universal Declaration of Human Rights." I think I can take it that this is agreed.
1.2 The Director-General is also sending a message to the President of the General Assembly.  I call upon Mr, Obligado to read the text of the message of the Director-Gensral.
2. M. OBLIGADO (sous-directeur général pour l'information), -  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Le texie du message envoyé par le Directeur général à  M. Kurt Waldheim, Sécrétaire général des Nations Unies, se lit comme suit: "A l'occasion de la  Journée des Nations Unies, je désire, en cette année où les travaux de la sixième session extraor-  dinaire de l'Assemblée générale ont ouvert à la coopération internationale des perspectives d'une  importante exéeptionnelle, réaffirmer que l'Unesco est prête, dans les domaines de sa compé-  tence, à tout mettre en oeuvre pour l'établissement d'un nouvel ordre ‘mondial ‘plus juste, plus effi-  cace et plus fraternel, ainsi qu'à participer à l'élaboration et'à la mise en oeuvre de toutes me-  sures permettant au système des Nations Unies de répondre pleinement ‘À l'espoir que les nations,  et plus particulièrement les moins développées, placent en lui, Signé: René Maheu, Directeur  général de l'Unesco." Merci, Madame la Présle nte.
13 ‘DECISIONS OF THE GENERAL COMMITTEE/ DECISIONS DU BUREAU! DECISIONES DE LA MESA  DE LA CONFERENCIA / PEDEHHA NPE3HAHYMA / all dnl el, b5
3. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to inform you that the General Committee met this morning and  heard a statement by the Director-General regarding the methods of applying the decision on the  provisional budget ceiling, The Committee reviewed the practical implications of that decision  for the work of each Corhinission., It was agreed that each Commission would be informed at the  beginning of its work of the order of magnitude of the cut suggested by the Director-General, and  that at the end of the general debate in each Programme Commission, the Secretariat would make  specific suggestions regarding possible cuts that could be made in the various sections of the  programme,  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued)/ DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)/  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién) OBCY XIEHHE BOINPOCOB OBIEH NOJHTHKH  (nposonxenHe) a Latläulçudl 30500 les.)
4, The PRESIDENT  We shall now be resuming the general policy debate. I give the floor to the delegate of  Turkey in ‘exercise of his right of reply.
5,1 Mr, USTUNDAG (Turkey):  Madam President, the Turkish delegation is obliged to take the floor once more because of  the statement of the representative of the Greek community of Cyprus this morning.
5,2 At the beginning of the session I spoke in order to draw your attention to the fact that the so-  called Cyprus delegation does not represent the State of Cyprus but solely the Greek community  of the Island, The Turkish community not being represented here, the words of the so-called  Cyprus delegation this morning have confirmed how far my first intervention was founded and  justified.
5.3 The absence here of a Turkish Cypriot delegation, and some impertinent and unfounded alle-  gations made by the Greek Cypriot speaker, make it necessary for me to bring some facts to the  attention of the Conference in order to permit this audience to have an objective and true evalua-  tion of the situation which prevails on the Island,
5.4 On behalf of the Turkish Government, I solemnly reject the terms used by the Greek Cypriot  speaker, such as ‘'aggression‘, "invasion", and "occupation",
5.5 I would like once again to emphasize that after having exhausted all peaceful means and ways  such as consultations, contacts and negotiations in order to find a peaceful solution, Turkey under-  took on the basis of her Treaty rights a peace operation whose sole aim was, and continues to be,  to safeguard the independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Cyprus and to restore  constitutional rule in the Island.
5.6 Some now talk about the Turkish invasion of the Island. Cyprus was invaded long before the  Turkish Army got there, It was invaded not with the purpose of restoring the independence and  territorial integrity of Cyprus, as foreseen in international treaties to which Greece also happens  to be a party; it was invaded by Greece, in violation of these agreements, with the deliberate fnten-  tion of terminating the existence of that State and the independence of the country, These things  happened long before the Turkish intervention, Constitutional rule was brought to an end in Cyprus  even for the Greek community there,
5.7 Turkey, as one of the three signatories of the Agreements creating the State of Cyprus, could  not be expected to tolerate such a flagrant violation of an agreement which it had honoured since  the setting up of the Republic of Cyprus, and to the observance of which it attached the utmost  importance. Nevertheless, once again following the course it has always followed to settle inter-  national problems in the past, Turkey tried to seek as peaceful a solution as possible of the problem,
5.8 In the meantime, the government of the adventurers on the Island, with the help of the Greek  Government, went ahead to consolidate their position and power. In the circumstances, Turkey  had no alternative but to resort to such means as had been rendered necessary by this situation,  in order to bring to a halt unacceptable developments which had in them the power to ignite an  explosion, to shake the foundations of peace in the region. Turkey sent a military contingent to  the Island, making its intention clearly known tô all: to help restore constitutional rule, the terri-  torial integrity and independence of Cyprus, to prevent bloodshed between Greeks themselves and  between the two communities living on the Island,
5.9 Turkéy's move on the Island was a move of péace, Turkish forces were issued orders not to  fire a shot unless they were fired upon. The first action of Turkey was to drop leaflets to the  population explaining that the Turkish intervention was a peace move, designed to benefit both  Greek and Turkish communities. It was not directed at the peoples of Cyprus,
5.10 I do not wish to go into the details of the political aspect of the problem. But as regards the 13  Greek Cypriot allegations concerning the destruction of the cultural heritage, I will simply refer  to the declaration made by the Director-General (document 18 C/INF. 14 of 22 October 1974).  From the report prepared by the special mission sent to the Island, I will only quote the first para-  graph: "The cultural heritage of Cyprus has not suffered as much as might have been feared from  recent events on the Island. These are the conclusions of the report which I have just received  from the mission which I sent to Cyprus to make an on-the-spot Inquiry into the situation as re-  gards the Island's cultural heritage. "
5.11 This declaration proves that the Greek Cypriot allegations are totally unfounded and unjusti-  fied. And I would like to express my thanks to the Director-General for his decision to send this  mission to Cyprus, The report of the mission provided the whole world with the truth on the un-  founded allegations of so-called destruction of the cultural heritage in Cyprus.
5.12 As regards the situation in the educational field, the Greek Cypriot speaker has made simi-  lar unjustified and misleading remarks and allegations, I would like to give you, distinguished  delegates, the facts in these respects:
5.13 The Turkish community of Cyprus has suffered hardships, privations and discrimination at  the hands of Greek Cypriots during the last eleven years in complete violation of the principles of  human rights and the three basic aims of Unesco, namely encouraging international intellectual  co-operation, operational assistance to Member States, and the promotion of peace, human rights  and mutual understanding among peoples, Turkish Cypriot education and culture were very hard  hit and discriminated against by the Greek Cypriot leadership in flagrant violation of the basic  principles of Unesco. The following examples will illustrate some of the many cases of discrimi-  nation suffered by Turkish education and culture at the hands of Greek Cypriots:  (a) in 82 villages or towns damage to the extent of millions of dollars (1963 estimates) was  caused to elementary school buildings, teachers! lodgings and secondary school esta-  blishments as a result of the Greek Cypriot onslaught;  {b) many school teachers were killed and wounded by Greek Cypriot gunmen;  (c) the education grant payable annually to the Turkish Communal Chamber under Article 88  of the Constitution has been arbitrarily withheld since December 1963;  (d) the Greek Communal Chamber was abolished by the Greek Cypriot Administration and  its functions entrusted to a "Ministry of Education" in violation of Articles 46, 86 and
87 of the Constitution, The object in doing this was to create the false impression that  there was a single authority responsible for educational and cultural matters in Cyprus  and thus to claim the right to represent Cyprus as a whole in the General Conferences  of Unesco and other conferences and seminars organized by Unesco and other educational  and cultural organizations;  (e) Greek Cypriot youth has been and continues to be indoctrinated in schools to hate Turks  and everything that 1s Turkish, The television and radio programmes are similarly  being used to spread seeds of hatred against the Turkish community. An extract from  a children's quiz programme which was prepared by a Greek Cypriot educationist and  broadcast over the Greek Cypriot television gives a vivid example of the destructive  activities of the Greek Cypriot educational and cultural authorities in Cyprus.
5.14 I would like to give some extracts from this Greek children's programme, as broadcast.  The teacher asks:  "When will you grow and avenge your father's death?”  The six-year old Christos replies:  "When I grow up I shall bring you the heads of six Turks.  “Bravo my son; you, Yianni, what will you bring me?"  "I shall bring you a hundred Turkish heads and we shall burn them, "  "And you, Theodoraki?"  "I shall fulfil the wish of my father, 1 shall drive away the Turks from Mora,"  (Mora is the name of a Turkish village, )
5.15 Distinguishéd delegates, I think we have to emphasize thig point, The first sentence of the  Constitution of Unegco says that "the Governments of the States Parties to this Constitution on  behalf of their peoples declare: that since wars begin in the minds of men it is in the minds of  men that the defences of peace must be constructed’, This'is a very serious and important point:  our Organization, as an educational, scientific and cultural body, must pay much more attention  to this kind of préblem, Madam President, Turkey is as always sincerely committed to the aims  and ideals of Unesco, The aims and ideals expressed in the Constitution were the ‘guiding prin-  cipled shaping the life of the Turkish people at the time ‘When the Turkish Republic was founded by  our national leader Mustafah Kamal Atatürk, We expect others to be respectful of these aims and  ideals of Unesco,
13 5,16 I will continue with my selection of examples:  (f) elementary schools in'inixed villages and towns have been systematically broken into,  Turkish flags and pictures stolen and the word "EOKA"' written on the blackboards,  Repeated complaints through UNFICYP for effective police measures to stop such pro-  vocative actions have fallen on deaf ears;  {g) an elementary school was arbitrarily demolished by the Greek Cypriots;  {h) in view of the restrictions placed on the freedom of movement of the Turkish community  many schools were left without teachers, Inspectors could not visit schools for guidance  or counselling, equipment and other teaching materials could not be sent to schools,  restrictions on the entry of building materials to Turkish sectors prevented the repair  of school premises, students studying abroad were unable for four years to return home  to visit their parents; and for four years secondary school graduates were unable to go  abroad for further studies.
5,17 The Turkish community was deprived of all the alds, assistance and scholarships given to  Cyprus by other countries and by United Nations agencies. All such aid and scholarships went to  the Greek Cypriots. Similarly all Unesco aid to Cyprus went to the Greek educational establish-  ments, The Turkish schools have received nothing so far. Even the mobile lending library which  was presented to Cyprus by Unesco a few years ago was allocated exclusively to the service of  Greek schools,
5.18 On 15 July 1974, the Greek Junta, through the EOKA gunman Nikos Sampson, staged a  coup d'état in Cyprus the ultimate object of which was to destroy the independence of the bi-national  Republic of Cyprus and, after subjugating or completely exterminating the co-founder and partner  Turkish community, to bring about ENOSIS,
5.19 It was thanks to the timely Turkish intervention that the lives of 140, 000 Turkish Cypriots  and the independence of Cyprus were saved, Nevertheless, the Greek Cypriots and the Greek  mainland forces, fully mobile in armoured cars and tanks and supported by heavy machine-guns  and artillery, overran 132 defenceless Turkish villages which were scattered among the Greek  population, and committed acts of genocide and all kinds of atrocities against the unarmed, defence-  less civilian Turkish population, irrespective of age or sex, in flagrant violation of all principles  of human rights and human decency,
5.20 The following are some of the atrocities and inhuman acts committed against the Turkish  community:
(1) all male Turkish Cypriot inhabitants were rounded up, arrested (although they had com-  mitted no offence) and detained as hostages in various detention centres under unhygienic  and inhuman conditions, As a result of the rounding up of the male population, Turkish  Cypriot women and children in these areas were completely deprived of male protection  and were left in fear of their lives at the mercy of the Greek Cypriot hovdes, Many  reports have been received of inhuman acts committed against these defrnceless women  and children, including rape;
(2) all Turkish-owned properties in overrun areas were ransacked, looted and in a number  of cases set on fire;
(3) fourteen male inhabitants of the mixed village of Alaminos were rounded up by the Greek  Cypriot National Guard and murdered in cold blood with their hands tied behind their  backs;
(4) women were fired upon by the Greek Cypriut National Guard in Gaziveren village, as a  result of which six women were killed and 22 others wounded;
(5) in Alodha, a small Turkish village in Famagusta district, fifty-seven of its sixty inhab-  itants (women, children and babies included) were massacred by Greek gunmen and  buried in a mass grave, using a bulldozer;
(6) in Tokni, a mixed village in Larnaca district, all able-bodied male Turkish inhabitants  were taken by the Greek Cypriot National Guard soldiers to the outskirts of a village in  Limassol district, where they were massacred and buried in a prepared pit, (This mass  grave was located by the United Nations Peace Force in Cyprus in Palodha village, but  the Greek Cypriot National Guard soldiers are preventing them from cafrying out the  necessary investigations). Reports are coming in from this village that the women-folk  and children, who were deprived of their male protection in this hideous manner, are  being harassed and molested by Greek Cypriot gunmen and prevented even from selling  their lve-stock, which is the only mcans available to them for providing the daily food  of their orphan children;
(7) in Paphos town many Turks and a three-year old child were shot by Greek gunmen before  the eyes of the public {according to United Nations Peace Force in Cyprus the child's  body was riddled with bullets);
(8) in Angolemi village the Turkish Cypriots (father, mother, teenage daughter and two men)  were massacred by Greek gunmen;
(9) In Sandallari and Maratha villages the whole population (except a few) were murdered  and buried in a mass grave;
(10) in Ayos Yoannis village in the Paphos district Greek Cypriot gunmen entered the village  and shot in cold blood four men and one woman, and after terrorizing the rest of the  inhabitants ransacked and looted their properties,
5,21 There are approximately 40, 000 Turkish Cypriots who are being held against their +111 as  hostages in the Greek- controlled region of Cyprus in the South, These people are living in agony  and in constant fear of their lives, Furthermore, it has become impossible to carry out any kind  of educational function in this area, where there are two thousand junior high school and lycée  students, six thousand elementary school children and five hundred university students, in view  of the following facts: ;
(1) many Turkish school teachers are missing, while others are being held as prisoners  of war;  ($1) most of the Turkish schools have been completely or partially destroyed, looted or  ransacked, and those which escaped destruction are being utilized by Greeks for mili-  tary purposes;  (iii) most of the teachers' dwelling houses are totally or partly damaged and their furniture  destroyed or carried away; and  (iv) all boarding houses have been broken into, ransacked and looted.
5.22 Madam President, distinguished delegates, I deem it necessary to bring to your knowledge  the text of the letter dated 12 September 1974, sent by Dr. Oguz Veli, the Director of the Turkish  Office of Education in Cyprus, to the Director-General of Unesco, in order to give you an idea of  the sufferings of the Turkish community of the Island, which is not represented here:  "Excellency,  On 20 July 1974 the unconstitutional and illegal Greek National Guard commanded by the  Greek Officers of the mainland carried out a coup in Cyprus as a result of which a de facto  enosis was made,  On 20 July 1974 Turkey intervened militarily by virtue of the rights given to her under  the Treaty of Guarantee of 1960 in order to safeguard the rights and security of the Turkish  Cypriot community as well asthe safeguarding of the independence, sovereignty and terri-  torial integrity of the Republic of Cyprus.  The Greek National Guard on one hand opened fire on the Turkish Armed forces and on  the other launched attacks on the Turkish Cypriots all over the Island.  As a result of the Greek attacks, many Turkish Cypriots in¢luding women and children  lost their lives, many have been massacred and buried in mass graves, hundreds of them  were injured and their houses, schools, mosques have been looted, burnt and destroyed and  thousands of them became refugees,  Now, over forty thousand Turkish Cypriots are in the Greek-controlled areas and are  kept as prisoners, hostages, refugees or are surrounded by Greek forces who are forcing  them to live under inhuman conditions and without basic necessities of life,  At the moment one-third of the total number of our children and young people, who are  living in the Greek-controlled areas, are prevented by the Greeks from having any sort of  education whatsoever because;
(1) the Greeks are using our school buildings which have not already been destroyed,  for military purposes;
(2) many of our school buildings have either been severely damaged nr ransacked;
(3) most lodgings for teachers are totally or partly damaged and all personal furniture  has been either devastated or carried away;
(4) the furniture, stationery and other teaching :naterial in our schools have all been  ransacked and/or made unusuable; .
(5) all boarding-houses have been broken into and destroyed;
(6) twenty-two of our elementary school teachers and twenty-four secondary school  teachers including some headmasters have been taken as prisoners of war, The  number of teachers whose whereabouts are not definitely known is eighty-eight,  As it will be clearly appreciated it is impossible to carry out any kind of educational  functions in the Greek-controlled areas and as a result of this.....",
6, The PRESIDENT:  I do apologize to you, Sir, but I have to ask you to finish your statement as quickly as possible,  I gave you the floor to exercise your right of reply, but your statement is longer than the statement  of the head of the delegation of Cyprus made this morning, and I have still fourteen speakers on  my list, I thank you.
7.1 Mr, USTUNDAG (Turkey) .  Thank you, Madam President. I would like to conclude my statement by repeating once more  Turkey's point of view before this distinguished audience,
7,2 The Turkish Prime Minister made it clear in his speech on 14 August that "the objective of  this operation 1s not to destroy the State of Cyprus, but to contribute to the rebuilding on a sounder  basis of that State which was destroyed, and to ensure its territorial integrity. The objective of  this operation is to bring peace, freedom and security to Cyprus. The objective of this operation  is to end the long-lasting sufferings of the Turkish Cypriots and to enable them to live freely on  their own soil, in a way befitting humanity, When the objectives of this operation are attained,  the Greeks as well as the Turks on the Island will enjoy full security and durable peace". The  Prime Minister stressed that "our action is not against Greece or against the Greek Cypriot com-  munity; we intend to establish a balanced society in Cyprus, which will enable the Turks and the  Greeks to co-operate and prosper under equitable conditions",
7.3 As is known, on 17 August, Turkey, following the Security Council resolution, once again  called a cease-fire in Cyprus. Following the cease-fire, Turkey's Prime Minister made known  to the world Turkish aims and objectives as regards Cyprus, These aims and objectives have  not altered: they are to achieve a durable solution of this problem based on fairness and justice,  Such a solution will have to be based on the preservation of the territorial integrity and indepen-  dence of Cyprus which should rest on more solid foundations, It should give equal security and  opportunity for the enforcement of human rights, opportunities for a better life for the twn commu-  nities living on the Island, It should base their relations not on the mercy of one of them, but on  mutual respect for each other's rights and on a spirit of co-operation, Cyprus as a whole should  be taken off the list of outstanding dangerous international conflicts, threatening the peace and  security of the neighbouring countries and of the region. Until such time as this aim is achieved,  Turkey will continue to seek for it and will always have a preference for negotiation as a means  to attain that aim, The Turkish Government has already extended a hand to all those concerned to  come together and start discussions to attain these objectives, Thank you, Madam President,
8. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Turkey and now I give the floor to H, E, Mrs. Ingrid Eide, head of the  delegation of Norway,
9.1 Mrs, EIDE (Norway):  Madam President, I think many of us in this hall have experienced periods of war and some  of us will probably also in the future have this sad experience, We feel great sympathy for those  peoples presently exposed to war, whether in Cyprus or elsewhere.
9.2 Madam President, let me join all those who have congratulated you on your election to this  high office, but let me also, as a fellow woman, remind this almost entirely male audience of the  fact that able women have really existed before this assembly managed to elect you, threatened or  inspired, as the case mey be, by International Women's Year. I hope, Madam President, that the  authority that your office now gives to a woman will speed up the acceptance of women and men as  more equal partners in the international field too,
9.3 In general, we are sceptical in Norway of the dedication of international years - it may of  course inspire action, and it may add satisfaction and momentum to know that other peoples are  dealing with the same topics as we are, but I think the danger is that false notions of achievement  may ensue; and that we forget that awareness of problems is rarely a sufficient condition for sol-  ving these problems, But apart from that, International Women's Year was welcomed in Norway,  although we might have preferred an International Equality Year, as we see this struggle for  women's rights as only a special case in the struggle for equality.
9.4 I hope you will forgive me for referring to my own country now, ‘but in our country the hard  climate and the barren soil made us until this century really very poor, but equally poor. There  was a division of labour between the sexes, but a division of labour where women and men had to  struggle side by side in order to survive, It was a woman's rôle to be physically and mentally  strong, not to be fragile and protected. I think this is an image of a woman that for instance many  of my African fellow delegates will recognize. And one of the hopes I have for Women's Year is  that more attention will be drawn to the fut that women have not been passive and dominated
320   throughout mankind's history. We would not have survived as a human race had that been the case,  More could be done to enhance the status of women by pointing to the importance of women's work  in society than by pointing to the fact that women have consistently been kept away from certain  positions, such as yours, Madam President, I say this because I think it would be a more correct  and therefore a more just representation of women's rôles until now in most places, at least if the  entire population is taken into consideration, And I think it would be a better platform for achieve-  ments by women in new fields, And what is perhaps more important, I think it would add dignity  to our struggle, much in the same way as the labour movement gained dignity by an awareness of  its own worth, the value of labour,
9.5 I also think that the European and North American women of today owe a debt of gratitude to  cultures and societies that shaped sex rôles differently than most Europeans did. And this fact  has been brought to our attention again and again by the various branches of the social sciences,  and Unesco to my mind has helped greatly in spreading this information to us in work and in pic-  ture, But this Organization is also spreading modern ideas, and I am afraid that modernization  frequently has some unintended -consequences for the status of women and that the lot of the non-  European woman frequently becomes worsé in some respécts In the process of modernization,  Her life may become easier, perhaps, but she will also most probably have a feeling of decreased  worth in society, Increased attention should be paid to the ways in which deliberate efforts to  modernize affect the status of women, and Unesco would, I think, be the most competent organ for  that task, How often do changes in agricultural technology and marketing overlook the rôle of"  women in more traditional culture and her rôle precisely in agriculture and marketing? How often  does professionalization of jobs take into account whether these jobs were traditionally done by  men or by women? Do we remember this in our educational programmes for instance? Is the  foreign expert at all aware of who would be better informed in a given field, according to the tra-  ditional division of labour between the sexes? And how much is preserved and passed on of all  the knowledge and all the experience women possessed? I wonder if Unesco could inspire local  social scientists to collect this amount of knowledge and experience before it is forgotten? This  last point - the amount of knowledge and experience that exists in groups of the population that are  perhaps in the process of modernization and are not aware of what is happening - this amount of  knowledge is frequently getting lost, which is serious for all of us. In our industrialized societies  we have developed a school system, and a large professional group of teachers who have almost  monopolized education to the point where we spend a large proportion of our lives in school, with  teachers and working on teaching materials, This system, for good reasons, is being spread to  the rest of the world, But I think we are now beginning to see that we may have gone too far, for-  getting about all the other ways in which knowledge is created and passed on, "id all the other ways  in which experience is gained. What is perhaps most important is that we often act as if non-  teachers are unable to teach, non-pupils are unable to learn and non-schools are unproductive in  terms of educational value,
9. 6 Society before us hardly ever had these notions, and the degree of alienation found in our  modern societies may also be related to these above-mentioned characteristics of our system,  We must do much, much more to recreate the educational qualities in more regular life - at home  and at work, and wherever people meet. This relates to the debate on the qualities of working life;  for instance - if the individual is deprived of the possibility of learning while he works, both he  and his product are likely to decrease in quality. And ff the worker is deprived of the possibility  to teach the content of his job to others, he is likely to lose awareness of what he is doing.
9,7 And if the person who is beyond school age is never again going to learn, he will be increa-  singly deprived as a human being. It is against this background that my country and the other  Nordic countries consider adult education, and in general a wider scope of educational efforts, to  be of high priority. We consider it of such high priority that, for instance, this year my country  is increasing the amount to be spent on adult education by 50% in a budget which generally increases  by 4%, Conipared to the established school systems, this is a new fiéld, and special attention and  special teaching methods are required. We would like Unesco to grant this important field contin-  uous and well-organized assistance, preferably by means of a maintained adult education division  which could also act as a co-ordinator of all activities defined as adult education in Unesco. I may  add here that in our country, adult education does not stop at any given level of the school system,  We consider {t extremely important that the so-called higher education is also increasingly engaged  in this field, It may be that adult education in this sense fe mainly the concern of some of the in-  dustrialized countries, but I do not think this is necessarily the case or should be the case,
9.8 There is another concern, however, which I think most of is share: I am referring to the  tasks of Unesco to provide within its competence technical assistance to the developing countries.  To this end a close co-operation is required between Unesco and UNDP, My delegation is gravely  concerned about the decrease in implementation that has taken place throughout the system, We  hope that Unesco, UNDP and the other organizations in the United Nations development system will  do their utmost to eliminate the constraints.
9.9 I hope you will forgive me, Madam President, for looking at our entire Conference with a  combination of admiration, gratitude and despair, Admiration because the Organization has mur  aged for so many years to draw attention on the international scene to some of the most important  tasks of our thine, tasks which would perhaps, precisely because of their importance and their
13 long-term perspective, tend to be forgotten in the politics of everyday life. Gratitude because 1  feel that Unesco has enriched our lives by continuously providing examples and proof of our cultural  heritage, our ability to create and even our ability to co-operate, And despair because I look at  all of us gathered here and cannot help thinking of the costs involved, We do so much serious work  in db many'different fields and I wonder if we have applied an analysis to ourselves as a body to  this kind of event, as an examplé of international events, to find out whether our style‘of work 1s  satisfactory? ‘ Could other patterns of co-operation and communication be developed that would  reduce the number of persons involved and the amount of time we spend together, and could we  still be productive? I think it is important for us to consider and to ‘discuss, now or later, whether  this pattern can be arranged later on in other parts of the world, within countries where neces-  sarily the technical conditions for the countries! administration will be different, I am saying this  too because I come from a very small nation, We have always wanted to participate as fully as  possible in international organizations, and particularly within the United Nations family, But the  range of activities, and the number of organizations and the lack of co-ordination between them  makes it a problem for us to provide participation all the time everywhere, I think a lot of coun-  tries must be in the same situation. Of course, and I don't want to be misunderstood, there is  great value in the almost universal representation the Organization now has - it is of value to the  Organization itself and to all of us and I am not criticizing that, ! welcome it with all my heart  because for the smaller nations the more global the framework an organizaticn has, the more use-  ful and the more rational it is, And we realize of course that the range of activities must be such  that all Member States can see that their membership is useful, Thank you, Madam President.
10, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Norway and I give the floor to H. E. Professor Ali  Lankoande, head of the delegation of Upper Volta.
11.1 M. LANKOANDE (Haute-Volta). -  Madame la Présidente, Messieurs les ministres et chers collègues, Monsieur le Président  du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le représentant du Directeur général, Mesdames et Messieurs les  délégués, les sessions de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco se suivent et ne se ressemblent pas.  Le rythme biennal de ces forums de l'Organisation n'a rien d'un tic-tac monotone et soporifique :  l'Unesco est un organisme vivant, qui er:bofte le pas au temps qui galope, et qui, dans maints  domaines, joue mème un rôle de pionnier. Pourrait-il, d'ailleurs, en être autrement, puisque  l'Unesco, ce sont des Etats qui évoluent, des Etats qui ont décidé de mettre en commun un capital  multiforme de forces éducatives, de créativité scientifique et culturelle, bref, toute l'Énergie in-  tellectuelle disponible à la surface de notre planète ? L'Unesco, c'est la tôte pensante de la  grande famille des Nations Unies, bien placée à ce titre pour tenter d'être la conscience des Na-  tions, Or tout me permet d'augurer que la dix-huitième session de la Conférence générale cons-  tituera un pas en avant dans la mise en oeuvre de cette mission complexe et périlleuse.
11.2 Madame la Présidente, au nom de la Haute-Volta et en mon nom personnel, je tiens à vous  féliciter pour la responsabilité éminente dont notre Assemblée vous a investie, Cette désignation  vous honore. Elle honore aussi cette conférence, puisque celle-ci ne fait que reconnaître ainsi  les mérites d'une vie tout entière vouée à la défense des idéaux mêmes de l'Unesco, gage évident  dont cette assemblée a décidé de se saisir pour assurer le bonne conduite de ses travaux.
11.3 J'adresse également mes félicitations et celles de mon pays à M. le Président du Conseil  exécutif et aux membres du Conseil exécutif, dont les compétences ont permis l'énorme et délicat  travail de préparation Indispensable au succès de la présente session,
11.4 Madame la Présidente, mes chers collègues, permettez-moi aussi d'exprimer solennelle-  ment la gratitude de mon pays à M. le Directeur général. Esprit culminant, limpide et dur comme  le diamant, né pour les grands desseins parce que mû par una abnégation exemplaire et une volonté  sans faille, il a, durant de longues années, mené les affaires de cette maison avec l'autorité sou-  veraine d'un prince de l'esprit. M. René Maheu a bien mérité de notre Organisation. Ce n'est  pas son moindre mérite que d'avoir su s'entourer d'une pléiade de collaborateurs éminents qui  aident au jour le jour l'Unesco à se réaliser, et que nous ne saurons jomals assez remercier pour  les trésors d'intelligence qu'ils consacrent à l'Organisation et pour leur dévotion aux idéaux mêmes  des Nations Unies. Parmi eux, je tiens à mentionner tout spécialement M. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow  qui, en'plus des qualités d'administrateur propres à un ancien homme d'Etat rompu aux difficultés  d'une gestion de pénurie en pays sous-équipé, a apporté ici la rigueur d'une pensée méthodique et  la vigueur d'un souffle nouveau reflétant le rythme artériel de la terre d'Afrique. Avec de tels  hommes, il n'est point étonnant qu'un effort constant soit fait pour ajuster l'action de l'Unesco aux  exigences de notre temps. Les documents 18 C/5 et 18 C/4, où lé Directeur général n'hésite pas  à envisager des refontes structurelles de l'Organisation pour mieux l'adapter à ses tâches nou-  velles, en aéminietrent la preuve,
11.5 Certes, tout dans le Projet de programme n'est pas parfait, Je constate par exemplé que  mon pays, qui est l'un des plus déshérités du monde, bénéficie en matière d'éducation de la colla-  boration directe de l'Unesco sur le terrain pour trois modestes projets seulement. Mais faut-il  rejeter toute la responsabilité de cette situation sur le Secrétariat ?
11.6 Par ailleurs, certaines études, faites et refaites sur l'éducation des adultes, la formation  des maîtres, la réforme des programmes, le déveluppement de la science, du patrimoine culturel,
322   etc,, reviennent avec une récurrence cyclique qui s'apparente à certains phénomènes naturels et  pourraient presque servir d'indicateurs chronologiques au même titre que le carbone 14,
11.7 Mais, dans la mesure où les‘problèmes changent, ne faut-il pas toujours des études nou-  velles ? Et si les problèmes demeurent inchangés, À qui la faute ? N'est-ce pas le signe que cer-  taines conditions préalables du développement éducatif, scientifique et culturel - conditions écono-  miques et politiques en particulier - ne sont toujours pas réalisées ? L'Unesco risque alors de ne  soigner en vain que les symptômes d'un mal dont les racines relèvent des soins d'autres instances  internationales ou nationales. Il ne faut pas oublier en effet la pesanteur des Etats, dont les plus  gros et les plus grands sont justement les plus pesants et dont les intérèts et stratégies particu-  lières échappent à la gestion des organisations internationales, où d'ailleurs ils n'hésitent pas par-  fois à mettre leur influence prépondérante au service de la raison d'Etat.
11.8 Bien que, par bonheur, le droit de veto ne soit pas en vigueur à l'Unesco, cette "ambiguité  fondamentale" qu'évoque la magistrale Introduction du Directeur général au document 18 C /3 ne  doit pas ttre perdue de vue, Il-est vrai que cette analyse pourrait ttre poussée plusloin, et l'on  pourrait observer que la pesée des volontés nationales sur l'Organisation n'est pas un phénomène  à sens unique. L'Unesco, par son action sur les esprits, arme certes les Etats pour la réalisa-  tion des objectifs que s'est fixée la communauté internationale, englobant l'ONU et les autres ins-  titutions spécialisées ; mais elle équipe aussi, souvent ipso facto, les pays membres pour la réa-  lisation des programmes proprement étatiques, Cette constatation d'un échange, où l'Unesco  donne autant qu'elle reçoit, justifie amplement les fonds extrabudgétaires relus par cette Organi-  sation : nous saluons leur hausse constante et remercions les donateurs, Il demeure néanmoins  que le Secrétariat de l'Unesco doit sans cesse s'adapter au cours mouvent des problèmes qui sont  de son ressort. Tout appareil tend à se perpêtuer dans l'être ou le paraître. Si l'on n'y prend  garde, les divers secteurs du Secrétariat risquent de devenir autant d'entités quasi souveraines,  des mini-Unesco qui videraient l'Organisation de sa substance. Par ailleurs, le Secrétariat lui-  même, s'il succombe à la tentation du monolithisme, ne pourra pas démultiplier ses énergies et  deviendra "une tête apoplectique sur un corps anémique'. Nous nous réjouissons que ces dangers  soient lucidement perçus, et que l'accent soit mis dans les documents qui nous sont proposés,  quoique de manière encore trop timide à notre sens, sur les deux principaux antidotes qui s'offrent  pour lutter contre cette tendance.
11,9 D'abord, l'approche thémetique, dans la mise sur pied du programme qui s'ordonne autour  de problèmes relevant d'un traitement intersectoriel ou transsectoriel. I est bon que cette nou-  velle politique, sensible dans la croissance des programmes intersectoriels, se développe encore,  mème si cela pose de délicats problèmes de réajustement et d'arbitrage au niveau des bureaux,
11,10 Le second remède serait la décentralisation. Mais sl celle-ci consistait seulement en une  prolifération à des étages inférieurs, régionaux ou sous-régionaux, sans que les nouvelles struc-  tures disposent d'un minimum d'autonomie, s'il fallait en référer à Paris pour la moindre décision,  l'ensemble de l'appareil, au lieu de s'assouplir, en serait plus rigide et plus pesant.
11,11 Je plaide pour que les crédits alloués aux bureaux régionaux de l'Unesco soient augmentés,  tout en précisant que la solution n'est pas ici seulement affaire de moyens, mais plutôt de refonte  des procédures et de style, Par allleurs, je pense que l'Unesco devrait mettre mieux en applica-  tion un principe qui est à la fois de pédagogie et de management : faire face, Elle devrait sous-  traiter au maximum - tout en restant le maître d'oeuvre - certaines parties du programme à des  organisations régionales ou sous-réglonales éprouvées, qu'elles soient gouvernementales ou non  gouvernementales.
11,12 Madame la Présidente, ma délégation réserve, pour les débats en commission, les amen-  dements spécifiques qu'elle se propose de faire. Mais je voudrais livrer à la séance plénière  quelques réflexions sur les quatre thèmes suivants que j'estime primordiaux: la politique éduca-  tionnelle, le développement scientifique, la promotion des cultures et les programmes spéciaux.
11.13 En matière de politique éducationnelle, le rapport de la Commission internationale sur le  développement de l'éducation présidée par M. Edgar Faure constitue une prodigieuse synthèse qui  pose le diagnostic de la crise actuelle et suggère des solutions. Je pense que ce chef-d'oeuvre  mérite d'être orchesté jusqu'à la base du système éducatif mondial, À cet effet, l'Unesco devrait  susciter ou financer des séminaires à l'échelon régional, sous-régional ou national, afin que cha-  cun se penche sur l'ouvrage à la lumière de sa situation particulière,
11.14 La Haute-Volta est un pays relativement assez riche en hommes, mais pauvre en res-  sources naturelles, Le produit national brut est d'environ 1, 6 millia:d de francs français, et le  revenu annué¢l par habitant de 320 francs, Nous consacrons environ 20 % de notre budget national  à scolariser iin pé plus de 11 % des enfants, Un quarantième seulement des produits de cet en-  seignement trouve place dans le secteur public qui, avec 20,000 employés, constitue environ les  deux tiers de la population salariée, Des projections récentes établies par lé ministèré de la  Fonction publique et du Travail prévoient que, si le plan actuel se réalise, les pays se trouvera,  dans cinq ans, avec 40.000 diplômés dès écoles sans travail, soît un chiffre supérieur au nombre  total des salariés actuels.
11.15 Or, compte tenu du volume de la demande d'enseignement, la progression des effectifs  s'est considérablement accrue depuis quelques années. En effet, par suité du malthuslanieme
13 forcé pratiqué par l'Etat, un secteur privé florissant a pris la relève, cependant que le marché  de l'emploi non rural, le seul qui intéresse pour le moment les diplômés, demeure très peu élas-  tique. Et pour cause, car il est M6 à des facteurs dont un grand nombre son extérieurs au pays.  Par ayxcmple, le plan de développement 1972-1976 est financé à 80 % par l'extérieur, et les 20%  qui insombent au budget national représentent surtout des contreparties de divers ordres aux in-  terventions extérieures.
11,16 Le secteur rural, qui emploie 90 % de la population, est presque automatiquement aban-  donné par les enfants scolarisés. L'expérience d'éducation rurale qui a fonctionné une dizaine  d'années pour corriger cet exode, malgr& quelques succès sporadiques et les leçons utiles qu'elle  a permis de tirer, ne résout pas fondamentalement le problème, et elle vient d'être transférée au  ministère du Plan, du Développement rural, de l'Environnement et du Tourisme.
11,17 Dans une telle conjoncture, se contenter d'extrapoler le système actuel avec un rythme si  discordant des effets négatifs par rapport aux aspects positifs, c'est évidemment prendre des  risques de convulsions soclo-économiques graves. Cette situation, qui se retrouve dans nombre  de pays sous-équipés ou dominés, appelle un redressement d'urgence, C'est pourquoi le Gouver-  nement voltafque prévoit une réforme dont la structure n'est pas encore a>rêtée. Les obstacles  à ce genre de révisions déchirantes ne sont pas à minimiser ; routine ou démagogie des respon-  sables et des parents d'élèves, désir de recréer l'élève d'aujourd'hui à l'image de ce qu'on fut  soi-même hier par crainte de couper la branche sur laquelle on est soi-même installé, absence  de motivation puissante, rapport des forces sociales défavorables, etc.
11,18 Mais deux idées-forces semblent devoir dominer la recherche d'une solution dans ce  domaine ;
11,19 Primo, élargir au maximum la base du système éducatif en y incluant l'éducation non for-  melle. On injecte ainsi les ferments du savoir dans un milieu plus productif, et l'on jette les  bases d'une sélection plus rentable et j lus juste. En effet, consacrer 20 % du budget à 11 % des  enfants, est-ce démocratique ? Nous .r,utenons donc vigoureusement toutes les sous-sections du  Projet de programme consacrées à l'alphabétisation fonctionnelle et à l'éducation populaire, Nous  nous félicitons d'ailleurs de ce que l'Unesco ait fait à notre pays la confiance d'y implanter le pro-  jet expérimental d'égalité d'accès des femmes et des jeunes filles à l'éducation, et nous souhai-  tons vivement que se prujet bénéficie d'un soutien encore plus puissant. Dans le m&me ordre  d'idées, nous soutenons également les parties du programme relatives à l'utilisation des moyens  de communication de magse, en particulier le cinéma et la télévision, convaincus quenous sommes  que le cinéma et la télévision constituent à l'heure actuelle un moyen privilégié et original d'édu-  cation et de culture de masse pour les pays sous-développés en dépit du coût élevé des investisse-  ments qu'ils nécessitent; les moyens audiovisuels constituant des techniques modernes et des voies  pédagogiques proches des civilisations dominées par l'élément oral. Le cinéma et la télévision  permettront ainsi d'assurer, par un raccourci inespéré, la compréhension, l'expression et la pro-  motion des cultures, condition sine qua non du développement. Ils permettront également de  gagner du temps dans l'entreprise d'alphabétisation et d'éducation des masses, qui constitue l'une  des préoccupations majeures des responsables duns les pays en voie de développement. C'est  pourquoi nous félicitons le Directeur général d'avoir non seulement préconisé la diffusion interna-  tionale du film, qui risque à la limito de perpêtuer la dépendance culturelle, mais également l'im-  plantation, dans les pays on vole de développement, de projets pilotes de formation de cinéastes,  à qui incombera l'élaboration et la mise en oeuvre des programmes cinématographiques et télévi-  suels. Nous vendons un hommage particulier au Directeur général pour la confiance que l'Unesco  fait à notre pays en y installant un des projets pilotes prévus dans ce domaine : l'école régionale  du cinéma.
11.20 Secundo, l'autre idée-force d'une réforme radicale devrait être la liaison de l'école avec  la vie et le travail, la jonction de la pratique et de la théorie dans le cadre d'une école de promo-  tion collective, retrouvant lès vertus de l'éducation africaine traditionnelle. Au moment où, dans  les suner-puissances de l'Est ou de l'Ouest, élèves et étudiants font l'expérience du travail, au  m-ent où cette question se pose dans les pays européens, il est tout de mème paradoxal (mais  le paradoxe n'est ici qu'apparent) que, dans les pays les plus pauvres, les privilégiés du savoir  soient écartés du travail producteur qui occupe les neuf dixièmes de leurs habitants, qui survivent  parfois avec l'aide alimentaire des pays riches. Mais, au fait, cette désaffection de "l'élite" intel-  lectuelle à l'égard du travail producteur n'est-elle pas justement l'une des composantes du sous-  développement et de la dépendance à l'égard de l'extérieur ? Il est vrai que ce système profite  aux rrivilégiés de l'intérieur et de l'extérieur ...
11.21 Madame la Présidente, nous demandons fermement à l'Unesco d'encourager cette véritable  et nécessaire révolution culturelle, qui a été traitée au séminaire de la Fondation Dag Hammarksjbld  à Dar es-Salam et dans le monumental rapport sur l'éducation non formelle préparé sous les aus-  pices du Côngefl international pour le développement de l'éducation, en aidant notaminent les pays  qui veulent innovez en la matière à réaliser des campagnes de changement des mentalités. Un  centre afficain semblable au Centre aslén d'innovation éducative en vue du développement serait  à créer,
11,22 Pour co qui «st de la coopération universitaire en Afrique, nous faisons nôtres les recom-  mandations de la récente réunion d'experts tenue au Brede. à Dakar,
11.23 Le secont thème de réflexion que je voudrais aborder est celui des sciences, Comme on le  note avec raison dans les documents du Secrétariat, l'écart, dans ce domaine, ne fait que s'élar-  gir do jour en jour entre les pays riches et les pays dits sous-développés. À ce sujet, il serait  ridicule de croire que ces pays ''n'ont jamais rien inventé", A elles seules, la pharmacopée et .  la médecine africaines traditionnelles, dont le CAMES s'apprête à s'occuper au Colloque de Lomé  le mois prochain, constituent déjà une mine de connaissances millénaires parfois raffinées,. Mais  il est vrai que, sur le plen de la science et de la technique modernes, nos pays restent une sorte  de no man's land. I faut donc que nos Etats acceptent de rassembler, au sommet du système  d'enseignement, tous les moyens nécessaires à la création d'un réseau de foyers scientifiques dé  valeur internationale se rangeant parmi ces "centres d'excellence" dont le développement a été  recommandé d'abord par la conférence de Nairobi, puis, à Dakar en janvier dernier, par la con-  férence CASTAFRICA, Malis les prix Nobel de sciences ne poussent pas comme des champignons.  Ils ont besoin de s'être trouvés depuis l'enfance dans un milieu hautement favorable à l'épanouisse-  ment de leurs dons, C'est pourquoi nous demandons à l'Unesco de promouvoir, à la base mème  du système éducatif, la créativité scientifique et technique.
11,24 Dans certaines foires de Haute-Volta et dans les brousses les plus reculées, on découvre  parfois des outils que d'ingénieux artisans ont inventés, parfois en s'inspirant de modèles exté-  rieurs mais pour répondre à des besoins locaux très spécifiques. Pourquoi dès lors ne pas orga-  niser des sortes de "Concours Lépine‘ qui contribueralent à promouvoir le développement endo-  gène grâce à une sorte de technologie intermédiaire ? A cet égard, des centres comme celui du  Nigéria pour la production de matériel scientifique scolaire peuvent constituer un puissant moyen  de vulgarisation, au meme titre que les quinzaines scientifiques, les séminaires du livre scienti -  fique, l'établissement d'unités scientifiques polyvalentes, etc.
11.25 Messieurs les délégués, j'appartiens à l'un des pays qui ont été frappés depuis quelques  années par une sécheresse terrible. Un chiffre sigrificatif : on estime à 100,000 en Haute-Volta  le nombre des bovins morts (sur un cheptel de 560,000 têtes). Mais la sécheresse, la famine, la  soif, et les multiples maux qui en découlent ont d'importantes répercussions sur l'éducation et  sur la science, ne serait-ce que parce que, chez les enfants des sinistrés, ‘ventre affamé n'a  point d'oreilles", et parce nombre de ces enfants ont été englobés dans le mouvement de reflux  des populations vers le Sud ; et il ne faut pas non plus oublier que l'avance du Sahara constitue un  défi pour la science internationale. Déjà, un comité inter-Etats de lutte contre la sécheresse dans  le Sahel a êté constitué à Ouagadougou. Nous seuhaitons que l'Unesco collabore avec cet orga-  nisme au niveau sous-régional, par exemple dans le cadre de la Décennie hydrologique internatio-  nale ou dans celui de l'action menée pour promouvoir l'utilisation de l'énergie solaire, dont deux  centres de recherches de la région s'occupent déjà de faciliter l'emploi. I serait bon aussi que  le Conseil international de coordination du programme MAB 1975-1976 comprenne des Etats appar-  tenant à la zone sahélienne.
11.26 Mais la science <i la technique, et mème l'économie, ne doivent pas intervenir chez nous  comme cheveux sur !a soupe ou cautères sur une jambe de bois. Nous souhaitons qu'elles soient  "assumées'. C'esi pourquoi nous approuvons l'orientation du programme MAB vers une approche  interséctorielle. De même, nous soutenons chalereusement le programme relatif au tourisme  dans ses rapports avec les valeurs socioculturelles. En effet, le tourisme, s'il permet aux pays  où il se développe de recueillir des devises étrangères qui améliorent leur balance des paiements,  peut aussi, dans le même temps, agir comme un "défoliant" culturel qui aliène et stérilise les  cultures nationales en les réduisant à la folklorisation, Un Conseil africain des sciences pourrait  aider à la compréhension de ce genre de problèmes, ;
11.27 Nous soutenons les programmes entrepris par l'Unesco dans le"domaine culturel, notam-  ment ceux qui tendent A la formation de spécialistes, à la création d'infrastructures ou à l'organi-  sation de réunions. Nous proposons qu'un appui vigoureux soit apporté au projet d'histoire géné-  rale de l'Afrique et au Centre régional de documentation pour les traditions orales appelé à fonc-  tionner à Niamey. Qu'il me soit permis de dire à ce propos que l'Unesco, en liaison avec le  Conseil international des archives, devrait pouvoir organiser un système de transfert de micro-  copies des documents relatifs à l'histoire des pays sous-développés,
11,28 J'insléterai tout particulièrement sur les parties du programme relatives aux langues natio-  nales africaines, car-un public de plus en plus nombreux demande que ces langues soient étudiées,  qu'on se préoccupe éventuellement de leur transcription et qu'elles soient utilisées dans l'édition  et l'enseignement. On nous repète volontiers que les langues européennes introduites en Afrique  à la faveur du phénomène colonial sont pour nous de précieux outils d'accès à la science et à des  cultures anciennes et raffinées, qu'elles nous offrent, en raison de leur diffusion planétaire, le  moyen de prendre contact avec de vastes régions du monde. Nous en convenons volontiers, Mais  un philosophe a dit que la "langue est la maison de l'être", Or, s'il est vrai que la langue étran-  gère constitue un pont qui permet d'accéder au vaste monde, cela signifie-t-il qu'il faille quitter  sa maison pour allsr loger chez autruf ou habiter sous ce pont ? Si la langue étrangère est un  outil remarquable, faut-il pour autant couper sa propre main pour la remplacer par cet outil ? Si  la langue étrangère est un violon merveilleux, faut-il pour autant renoncer à sa propre voix et  couper sa propre langue pour se borner désormais A jouer du violon ? A vrai dire; quiconque no  parlerait que dans'une langue étrangère ressemblerait un peu à un singe. Qu'il le veuille ou non,  il serait conduit à imiter et à s'exprimer par des grimaces. Même si nos langues présentent de
13 nombreux inconvénients, qui ont d'ailleurs été dramatisés par leurs détracteurs, il n'y en a pas  moins, sur les plans pédagogique, culturel, scientifique et économique, de nombreuses raisons  qui militent en faveur de leur utilisation. La solution de ce problème est dans le bilinguisme ou  le trilinguisme, qui sont couramment pratiqués en Afrique, Les langues africaines, jusqu'ici mé-  prisées ou négligées, doivent donc être revalorisées pour servir d'abord dans l'alphabétisation  fonctionnelle comme au Mali, puis, grâce à des aménagements comme ceux auxquels il a déjà été  procédé dans certains pays africains, dans le système scolaire dit traditionnel.
11.29 Madame la Présidente, je tiens à terminer cette intervention par quelques remarques sur  le problème des droits de l'homme et sur celui du développement.
11,30 En premier lieu, j'apporte un soutien total à l'action (à mes yeux encore trop môdeste) qui  est prévue dans le cadre du programme à moyen terme pour "l'amélioration de la participation de  certains groupes au développement'. I est impérieux de donner à cette action un haut degré de  priorité. Le mensonge statistique et l'habitude prise, en matière économique, de se référer tou-  jours à des "moyennes", font que la situation réelle de certains groupes humains ou de certaines  collectivités n'apparaît pas clairement. Le fait qu'on parle aujourd'hui d'un "’quart-monde"" montre  que des différences prodigieuses dans les niveaux de vie restent camouflées sous le feu d'artifice  des chiffres. M. McNamara notait récemment aveo pessimisme ; "Actuellement, la triste vérité  est que, dans la plupart des pays, les rares ressources disponibles, financières et humaines, sont  gérées par une administration centralisée qui en fait surtout bénéficier le petit groupe des riches  et des puissants, ‘ .Dans les 40 pays en vole de développement, les 20 % les plus riches de la popu-  lation reçoivent 55 % du revenu national, tandis que les 20 % des plus pauvres n'en reçoivent que
5%. L'Unesco doit repérer tous ces groupes de marginaux - qui existent aussi dans les pays  riches - tous ces laissés-pour-compte, tous ces oubliés du progrès, qu'il s'agisse de vieillards,  de travailleurs agricoles, de paysans sans terre, de travailleurs migrants, de chômeurs ou de  femmes ; elle doit se préoccuper du sort de tous ceux qui luttent pour survivre dans un immense  ghetto sans frontières, Un quart de l'humanité émerge à peine de conditions subhumaines, C'est  en s'intéressant à ce quart-là que l'Unesco sera vraiment elle-même et trouvera sa vraie place  dans le monde.
11,31 Et il y a aussi les autres droits de l'homme : droits des peuples luttant pour leur libération,  droit à la paix. La guerre devient de plus en plus le lot des pauvres, chez lésquels elle est expor-  tée par les riches qui vivent, quant à eux, de mieux en mieux, pratiquant de façon éhontéc le com-  merce des armes de mort et réalisant ainsi un chiffre d'affaires qui, s'il était converti en "inves-  tissements Unesco", suffirait amplement à assurer la réalisation du programme pacifique de  l'Organisation. Ces mêmes armes sont vendues en masse À l'Union sud-africaine que le grand  Kwamé N'Krumah qualifiait à juste titre de "'delinquant international". Des pays qui vénèrent en  paroles les principes sacrés de la liberté et de la dignité humaine cessent bien vite de les appli-  quer quand ils sont placés devant le dilemme "Noblesse oblige" et "Business oblige", Ils ont alors  tôt fait de choisir : le coffre-fort écrase la Déclaration des droits de l'homme, Le racisme est  une séquelle monstrueuse et anachroniqué de la période bestiale dv temps des cavernes, un mythe  qui dégrade encore plus ceux qui en profitent que ceux qui en sont victimes, Dans le cadre de la  Décennie de la lutte contre le racisme, l'Unesco doit aider vigoureusement à la guerison de cette  lèpre mondiale qui déshonore l'humanité. Les vastes programmes consacrés à l'étude et à l'action  pour le contrôle de 1d population ne déboucheront sur rien tant que les droits élémentaires à la paix,  à la non-discrimination raciale et à la participation aux ressources et aux responsabilités commu-  nes ne seront pas garantis aux peuples, tant à l'échelon national qu'à l'échelon international. Pour  ceux qui n'ont rien à perdre, la prolifération de l'homme n'est pas un problème, ''Ventre affamé  n'a point d'oreilles", dit-on, Mais "ventre affamé" n'empêche pas de procréer ... Madame la  Présidente, le monde est en gésine. Et l'accouchement ne sera pas sans douleur,
11.32 Tant mieux si 1a mutation en cours, qui seule peut nous sauver de l'apocalypse, change les  "ébauches d'humanité" que nous sommes - individuellement et collectivement - en une espèce nou-  velle qui ait la vrai stature et le vrai statut de l'animal gouverné par la raison, Dans cette gesta-  tion douloureuse, l'Unesco, en tout cas, ne peut se dérober à ges responsabilités.
11,33 Quard l'obscurité envahissante se peuple de périls, instinctivement on cherche une lampe.  Celle-ci peut se trouver dans les profondeurs intimes de chacun, dans cette connaissance du moi  individuel ou collectif en laquelle le vieux Socrate voyait la base de toute science et de toute cons-  cience authentiques, Autant dire que cette lampe se trouve peut-être Place de Fontenoy ; surtout  quand tant de matière grise s'y trouve concentrée pour y tester et y stimuler les énergies intellec-  tuelles et spirituelles du monde.
11.34 Madame la Présidente, Messieurs les ministres et chers collègues, Monsieur le Président  du Conseil exécutif, Monsieur le représentant du Directeur général, Mesdames, Messieurs les  délégués; je souhaite que la lampe de l'Unesco éclaire et prépare des lendemains meilleurs, Elle  le fora si elle scintille avec constance et fidelité dans la nuit, comme un signal, Je vous remercie,
12, The PRESIDENT:  - I thertk the head of the delegation of Upper Volta and I give the floor to H, E, Mrs, Tove Nielsen,  head of the delegation of Denmark,
13.1 Mrs, NIELSEN (Denmark): bo 13  Madam President, distinguished delegates, this eighteenth session of the General Conference  of Unesco will probably be one of singular historical importance, For the first time an attempt  has been made to really stop and reflect on what is to be Unesco's rôle in the world of tomorrow,  This attempt, decided upon as it was by the General Conference at its seventeenth session two  years ago, implies a regular rethinking in an unbiased way, to reach a new intellectual basis for  our decisions on Unesco's contributions to the solution of contemporary world problems,
13,2 The result of this appears in the important document 18 C/4 which we shall discuss during  this Conference, Its orientation towards objectives seems to me a sound and efficient way of  dealing with the problems, My Government appreciates the way In which the Director-General  met the heavy demands of this task, giving all Member States the opportunity of presenting their  views before work was started, We also appreciate that the suggestions made by the four Nordic  countries in a joint letter to the Director-General are to a very large extent reflected in the  document,
13,3 We consider that document 18 C/4 comprises a well-balanced table of the many problems  facing Unesco in the years to come. The 59 objectives contained in it will, of course, be dis-  cussed in Commission V and in the Working Group, and there may be some regrouping and changes  of balance to be made, But on the whole we consider the document before us a valuable starting-  point for a discussion on priorities and goals to be expressed in a later document which will bear  directly on medium-term planning,
13.4 To save your time, ladies and gentlemen, I have chosen to concentrate my comments on a  few selected questions in the Programme and Budget for the coming biennium,
13.5 Traditionally the education sector is the largest field of activity in Unesco and has the larg-  est share of the Regular Budget, as well as of the extra-budgetary funds provided mainly by UNDP.  This is still the case in the Programme and Budget now before us - but a slight decrease in growth  rate has heen proposed as regards the Regular Budget, and a more substantial one estimated for  the UNDP funds,
13,6 This may have to be accepted at a moment when economic expansion and growth is becoming  questionable all over the world; but 1 sincerely regret that Unesco's literacy work has been parti-  cularly hampered by budget savings, suffering from a very small increase in Regular Budget funds  and a substantial decrease in UNDP funds, ending up with a total budget only half the size of what  was estimated at the beginning of the previous budget period two years ago, I still consider liter-  acy work one of Unesco's most important objectives and expect the decline to be definitely tempor-  ary, meant to be followed by a substantial increase in the next budgetary period, This expectation
1 find confirmed by the priority given to this work in document 18 C/4,
13.7 In a changing society, education cannot be something limited to certain age groups and fin-  ished at a certain level; it must constantly offer new changes and be re-examined, both as regards  content and structure, This, I believe, is the fundamental philosophy underlying the concept of  life-long education, which was developed during the ‘sixties and formed the basis of the now world.  famous report "Learning to be", My country supporte the idea of life-long education; we are con-  stantly trying to bring the different parts of the educational system closer to each other go as to  form a coherent whole, aiming at making it possible for everybody, at any time of his life, to have  access to a meaningful and relevant education, To further this coherence and to advise it as re-  gards educational policy and planning, the Danish Government has recently established a Central  Council for Education, assisted by four Sector Councils for the main sectors of education,
13.8 Even it I cannot agree with those who think society will be changed through schools, I do not  underestimate the necessity for schools and the whole educational system to adapt themselves to  the changes that take place in society, An important aspect of this problem is the relation between  education and the world of work. I am looking forward to the suggestions of the expert meeting on  this theme which will be convened by Unesco in December in Denmark,
13.9 A very important feature in the pattern of life-long education is adult education, - although the  two are, of course, not identical, Adult education is an independent part of the overall educational  system and cultural pattern. It is increasingly recognized ag having {ts own characteristics, and  my Government wants to emphasize the necessity of strengthening this area - adult education - in  Unesco, as well as in Member States, The recommendations of the 1972 Tokyo Conference have  been of great importance in the discussions of this subject and will no doubt continue to form the  basis of Unesco's work. We have some concern, however, regarding the importance attached to  adult education in Unesco's Programme and Budget, Adult education is particularly directed to-  wards rather weak social groups and it is a very important element in community development,  Therefore it deserves strong and efficlent support by Unesco as well as by Member States, We  see a danger here in the proposal by the Director-General to abolish the special division of the  Secretariat for adult education, and we have, therefore, in co-operation with the other Nordic  countries, submitted a couple of draft resolutions aimed at emphasizing the importance of adult  education and maintaining a special division in the Secretariat, These will be discussed in the  Commission on education, and I hope they will have the understanding of delegates and of the  Secretariat,
13 13,10 In the introduction to the Chapter on education in document 18 C/5, four main objectives  are set for Unésco's activities in this field, I wish to stress'two of these, namely: to promote  the growth of educational systems, particularly in connexion with life-long education, 60 as to  guarantee the effective exercise of the right of education and to ald in the economic and social  development of the community; and to improve the efficlénoy of educational systems and the  quality of teaching through the renewal of structures, curricula and methods; and through training  of educatiorirl personnel, In this connexion I wish to mention the need of the least developed coun-  tries for assistance in the field of education. This is an area to which those countries themselves  give a very high priority, as appears from the report of the UNDP Administrator for 1973, Unesco  should not forget its obligations towards this group of Member States; it is questionable whether  the declining allocation of resources envisaged in document 18 C/4 for the problems of infrastruc-  ture and training for development is compatible with these obligations,
13.11 Considering the powerful impact of mass media in the world of today, I think it important  to evaluate the contents of the Unesco Programme regarding these media, It ia a condition for  the proper functioning of a democratic society that freedom of information and freedom of the press  can prevail without obstacles, This refers to information from outside and from inside, The free-  dom of the journalist to seek information and to expréss his opinion should not be hampered by  government regulations. But even journalists must respect the legal regulations set by a country  to protect other vital interests, be they State security or the right to privacy of the individual.  The journalist has to find the subtle balance between the right given him under the principle of  freedom of the press and freedom of information, and the obligation, the responsibility which he  has to take upon himself in his daily work,
13.12 Proposals aimed at furthering freedom of information by securing the access of all Member  States to technical progress in that field will have my Government's support in principle. I have  noted with interest the comments in the Programme and Budget emphasizing that endeavours to-  wards this goal must respect the cultural heritage of each nation. In 1957 a Unesco report drew  the world's attention to the fact that two-thirds of the world population were cut off from access  to the information and general education which mass media can provide for a population. This  report provided a strong argument for Unesco's literacy work and for the work towards securing  freedom of information, This imbalance in access to information - and I wonder whether it has  been very much improved since then - must be kept in mind when we discuss the suggestions in  today's Programme and Budget.
13,13 Here I would like to observe that a special problem of information has arisen concerning  mass média with a legal or virtual monopoly, In many countries radio and television are State  monopolies, and the prevailing "press death has entailed a concentration of printed news media,  How can we in such circumstances secure not only the right of the journalist to inform and com-  ment, but also the right of the population to impartial information? Unesco should include this  problem in its considerations,
13,14 I would like to comment briefly on the question of codes of ethics for journaliste which  Unesco has taken up during the past few years, Such codes - which need not necessarily be written  ones - provide a protection for the individual citizen, which goes beyond the protection secured by  acts of parliament, against violation by the press. By the way, at the same time séverel countries  provide regulations to safeguard the freedom of the journalist. This is a delicate field because  regulations are often considered as expressing a wish to interfere with the freedom of the press,  The crucial point of view is whether, in a certain case, the journalist has acted in accordance with  "fair journallem',. This I think may be defined as the journalistic principles accepted by the best  performers of the proféssion. Here the professional people themselves are the most competent.  Initiatives should be taken by the organizations of the press - publishers, editors, journalists -  and government regulations, let me underline that, should be avoided. But when it comes to deci-  sions, representative of readers, viewers, and listeners - let us call them consumers - should  participate as in other fields of democratic life.
13,15 It appears from public debate in many countries that a strong need is felt for the protection  which a press council can afford, But press councils have actually been set up in only 23 countries,  It is reasonable, therefore, that Unesco should offer its assistance to countries who want one. The  proposal in the "rogramme and Budget is to establish guidelines for national codes of ethics for  the mass media. I sympathize with this, but I warn against proceeding too quickly. ;
13.16 Even in countries belonging to the same cultural group opinions differ a lot as regards pur-  pose, composition, competence and sanctions of press councils, I think these problems have to  be gone over further béfore they are sufficiently clarified - but I wish to add that I have no preju-  dice as regards the establishment as such of guiding principles for codes of ethics foi thé media,  The possible acceptance by Member States of the proposals of the Director-Gerieral does not con-  stitute a recommendation for governmental regulations, There fs no question of a binding con-  vention, but only of an offer to countries which may be interested, But as I said earlier: let us  be careful in this delicate matter!
13, 17 From mass medie it is quite natural to proceed to books and libraries, They were the sub-  ject, broadly speaking, of the recent Unesco Intergovernmental Conference on Documentation,  Libraries and Archives Infrastructures. My country participated actively in this Conference; and
328   I hope its recommendations will be followed up. Well-defined national structures, and a corre- 13  sponding co-ordination inside Unesco, are prerequisites for the extended international co-operation  which is indispensable in this field,
13.18 During the 28 years of its lifetime, Unesco has initiated a number of international conven-  tions, recommendations, declarations and other kinds of what is nowadays brought together under  the common name of "instruments", Much valuable international co-ordination has been established  in this way, and many fundamental principles emphasized, Buf noting that this Conference is going  to deal - in a more or less advanced stage - with more single instruments than those adopted dur-  ing the whole previous existence of Unesco, I cannot but feel some apprehension, I know how inuch  work is demanded from Member States, if they are to make relevant comménts on the different  draft instruments submitted to them - añd I can imaginé the workload shouldered by the Unesco  Secretariat in these matters, In view of the fact that several of the conventions have been ratified  by a rather limited group of Member States - what results from the recommendations we unfortu-  nately do not know - I shoüûld like to utter a'few words of warning, In my opinion no work on a new  instrument, even at the most préparatory stage, should be allowed to start unless its usefulness to  a majority of Member States has been seriously examined, I wish to support the opinion of the  Executive Board that an order of priority should be established among the different instruments  under preparation and that the assistance of international non-governmental organizations should  be involved. And when it is decided to start work on a new instrument, could not the guiding prin-  ciple be that of brevity, clarity, and a language so simple and lucid that even people who are not  brought up inside Unesco - or one of the other big international organizations - have a chance of  understanding it?
13.19 Madam President, many môré of Unesco's activities have aroused great interest in my  country, but I shall limit myself this time to the few I"'have so far mentioned, Still, there is one  observation I have made here which tempts me to conclude with an allusion to the International  Women's Year, 1975, and Unesco's role in that: for the first time a woman has been elected  President of Unesco's General Conference, Three of the Nordic Ministers who have addressed  this forum are women, and a rising number of delegates, as far as I can see, belong to that same  category. This does not indidate that the serious problems concerning equal rights and equal  opportunities for girls and women inside Unesco's field of competence have been solved. But let  us take it as a good omen that the struggle in this field, too, is worthwhile, Thank you, Madam  President. 3  \  ‘ \  TRIBUTE TO THE MEMORY OF DAVID OISTRAKH/ HOMMAGE A LA MEMOIRE DE DAVID  CISTRAKH / HOMENAJE A LA MEMORIA DE DAVID OISTRAKH / HAHb IAMATH MABHIA  OHCTPAXA / g) ul wily S30 Je 1 Bes
14.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I have the painful duty to inform you of very sad news that has just been  communicated to me; David Oistrakh has died suddenly today in the Netherlands, David Oistrakh  was one of the greatest musicians of our time and one of the most prominent violinists of all time,  During the last few years he also established an international reputation as a conductor. Itis a  strange coincidence that this great artist should disappear on United Nations Day. As l am sure  many of you will recall it was precisely on 2-4 October 1958 that during an unforgettable concert  organized in Paris by the International Music\Council on the occasion of United Nations Day,  David Oistrakh and Yehudi Menuhin played for ‘the first time togethe; Johann Sebastian Bach's  double violin concerto, \
14, 2 I would like to ask the head of the Soviet delegation to convey our deep, sympathy and sincere  regrets to the Govérnment of the Soviet Union on îts irreparable loss and I request the meeting to  observe a minute's silence in tribute to thé memory of this great artist.  (The meeting observed a minute's silence, )  J i! - -  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued) / DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (Suite) / DEBATE  DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuacién) / OBCY XAEHUE BONPOCOB OBHE#} IOJIHTHKH  (npononxenne) / all sll 3.55 Lu
15. The PRESIDENT:  I give the floor to H, FE, Mr, Mahmoud Messadi, head of thé delegation of Tunisia,
(0735) Val Upon Vel CN UN  a) elas à pL gel gaan 0 ddl pala dl od; ta à plat if Ml SVR EVP  orb ud ya ol PILE I  PSU] PRR OCI RICE VUE VAR RE ER LE RTE EE yl a  dsl Shut dhl deling Ushio bly Babs gel ooo pis aise ley pl!  dent bol fl ud bly à feast Jlasdl ple ge ALL Uhl WU 5 O1 be 9  LU "pie das If IWPCNTRIOL [J WCAC Gi Ib TORI RLTREY IY 16 ces 50 FI FISERV LA)  NE) PUT VPRO YON
13 ep SNP etels à 5 dal ONT 0 5 VD TEL PRT ERR LTO C [FW IIT GVO EET RE  — PS s+Bly ols or relia! aus TNA) de ay Lola BLY,  . Lesluol, adel ole was  days : oo ‘ Las Jv diay babs. a! Tage lub thal ws) ol La) se Yy — ur  Led à alli gol à Silas Plant, diay 5) 1 ul ole Brpensy 6 dblac ull duel LS  FINE] WOAH MPR UTNE dame pd ol Le ze Ab PSY NG XT NAS. FV Cr PR WT PUN  ONFNT  Me bie GS J Bap! glen Wid Jib od 5 (ALG Lady deed sie à Les  SH —ai4 FFE F5 M RY ETI Vie 58 6 WAH) SORT [Pa WN NL PR DURA JY AO I US EOL  tale all Lin 8 005 oly 6 para) usd! Lia gine oo) ¢ IA ESS Cal pga IS  Coda bibi plis a a aN Jud  o—— Bled wus pt BEL was per Lie JUS Vs, ol Wal md SEE U1  PRP ele te 0 GOT a | FS 5 6959 08 505 6 Apple | CON lee 98 PE |  pr pit pal AUS pay ol a Gm LB Wil dan Le à pla Yl gee plas Ja  o——e0 7 JUS) yet eur ue 1955 0) 6 EL 5) is Ge RORY I) W PERS [PC WEN REA RTL  à pole EN 6 dyyliane Vi UUW IWRC VS EI | PN J WORT BE | PY PINYIN RAIN SPF TRE UL  . Julaadl sat ui VEO  daté play sas Le Alban d wo 2 Cand ss gl Gy 6 JuéJly Jad Via gs — 1400  Wish ls 6 sSassdl JF Bhd) sl Bie Jd Ba La cosh 6 Du! WY abn Bole  ITIP | SCO OY JURE | 0 SSS SO PRR FIC IF FIPIN ULI I 1 LENS Jess sel  a+ ges 234$ JV) VS PRE JUSS TTY) I YY | BPI PORN | I pas | 6 WOU BY IVY | I PY FY JN SR  FPR FSF IPRSEW ON TI RAY [0 FR DR STU UY | RS TE 1 BE A Jus JN LY JPR ORY J PAREN  IW SVT AU WIRY FFF FCW PET POF 3 J | J JPEN PRC 1 SHPRCISUIN [REIS LINEN  i Ila) foley mtd] Gui pen alin how ol Gro pm olin nd 55 6 Be 3m  oi Lai ded Wl mbiasadl WY abi à Bobi Ladi ped a 50 pally aged  Jas) is agi Mä angl dubs Gob oe Lp Gaal ASIE ppeall ebb What oe pis bo CLS  cia Sas pol  PR RI JF TYUPPYUSRPTOF SE ICT NEN JN TR DESRRIFISR 0) BCS LIC IP SHON TR KWAN  ot ll pay pushy clad play sad old DAYI/NAYO (wed debe  PUR DRPRC NE || Vin PW! 935080 GS SIN JPY | J WECTI RFI IN J CTL (9 WPS [Rl Les 5
330   all SSL) WS 4 We Vs pV Se Y dla Li oe Cledl ) EN 5  pill YU AS JULY. Lays oF Loge Bis 5° Bn 3 ¥ 5,85 Lys csp 05 dpedadly Ball  ep gb ebay VG a Sl Geladly 3,00 33, Il oe PURE Jb 3,08 55 3 Leis bli)  J ASUS 8 SSII 085 55e 5 AUS VL PR Le, ill a de 5, 1 JUS IU J PAVE PN 1  | ca phil ge Balan Vly Aulas Wil Je Je pond 0%  JU Jololl pall 1 AI dS die aS eds 5 plas V 6 à Bal Ge SY  u-— yllçe BV NVI INE (I +] IPS CHIL SRR TUN FUN FUCTT I TS PY P| I AC  JOYS Rc | Rpt] CY PRY PE | Fy SECT AXE yes NLP da allés ul JRE IRR LS 5 6 sys) |  + Ld tle Ÿ dd sa ulylsail Via € Leable Jas Sois aly ols Lys
5 polit aspase Spd! ae LS (Sapo) JIL gas WL à Waa Welds GB 10h — LUN
0 Lee addy dlls poled! CARE np a vady asdly wlah VI QE 5,8 oils Ja dpe  tt Brady Sill oll Cll oe GATE ld Ve Goin Ls bgt JS pe 5e  Lads JE dy + JAapa pa Lil Go ty CAB ge lS Gb SIT JL blo) sum 6)  CEE FICPN) PE DU [ES à el Che PRR. Lo POR PEYSN IRR les À  clolas Ÿly pladlGbin Ly Jasin Sted ele) alo Js Va 0 ald sibel clolazi Y  NE VEN CSN 5  Js rss ail pleut elas SI Gb 0 JBI Jee ly JY LB oleta dU, asl  pe Bla boy Gl allo mg) pe SIN JEU clad Jd pe as d'asile LAS  Wee GF BL Selles Lado is Roll Lobb 55 Reda cloludly appa cloud! geo  . dpsbze Vly 2,0 L05 YI Bacall
25 5 4 gladly plan Vis dally sprl! amas Josey BBA SL Abu ol  tT Je gle FSU JUIN lia i. Leds iB Bually 30 380s 3p3e 3564, dé VEN  ed—ba¥l og) Sows ly, dibs clolass Vl pled] on Baers tes BLE Bk ups o) ie  e3landl de Jos il peinadl puis GIlael, BBS pladly Baal) LE BLE 3k JN Beall  Send! Rabie Jo Babies Bugs J Lol) oped dege  ids J endl or Boys iy elpnadl GU) Jb Sande sal Ssh Jens Lo Via — yn  oad Lbs pal EI abo) dmenadl oly Les Bet aged JIL Leh 6 pt an JS  ob Bums 3b a à Lite 5 SAN ants Leds Jobs Satpal! GS 5 lly Cp akin  er 0b 3, à pW Span eb pet desl Bde lia puted] op We 5 GX a)  p35 0) ite gM Salle all Bal Boll pL as a appels Bigead) co Vpn  of Lael odd 6 ILLE ASUS 105 Ghgo 1e old NN tia Lia gus Bgaled Laws 44  ols usa 5 ous 0 Ad abs le or ADS ol Sue lay wis pee clad  SUNSETS TE TU RE SRP I SN RS USN PEN RRSP [IFA als 5 T
45h oT Glad  ETC URI digne Lis VERN PAE LV Ans 08 el ou OI Pees [ry SERN pe VUS -  REVI | ATOR) R01 JV RP use AG LS IST °F) RPV TR SP: PRP FY paye FO  ul =z WU à (nuns Al ably gil) Bal Jus Go BUT Lid Logon, pe UN  Led alas 38h Jeitall ¢log¥ athe 251 pall ABS Jan Jen AS) appa sSaspell psi  oo . À par debian Yh AyV LAS I spas) cleadied dole 3a  JPR VS PRP CU JOR PTI IY {SUI © 55 ue SP I WH FRC Sul 93 co REL TIS TRY  Ita puis (J pas 0) SSsipuld pipe wp 0 AID JI BLL nil Gb sll US I  JESU. C11 Less Je Ÿ VE LY] INT 55 NORE | ll ge VB Ve JL  DE ba  cobalt SSI Ba, pa Gall db Gaal Lay SSI Beis oY 0 Len Las vise  PCT Dr SR IT UTITSL IE J WV: CN BU T= | ERE VE 2] BY IPPC FPRPPIFS I UPS Les  Same OÙ NE VOR WIKI A ONTPE LIE SXCRPRO Vb JV ISS PUPS J NPR PN IPE LRT ga sl  ivolas YI Gy bil GS USVI AE G5 LasdiSally LAN Jools ob woliy lass diay Jost! Vie  oI chal Joss gy ol pV AT ue axe B50 EW Belly Lee, 765 SS es al debian Vy  o— WS parila b SLAY Glug 558 AG € Le uly JS 3oladl Gp bl abl. yo lull ob  Shy) Ia dl go apis gpd cardl HSA Gis 0 ddl SUEY I atl SN FAR RAR TI VE  SLissl 91 hadi Lin Jie wand J Jia Vs 1 REA loll 3st) JUS db appt Rene  ball wb Yl gS) dead! his Ally soll gob 8 SALUT VE wba JI 0 Slee  aro ems heal Lap Lie pds of 1 Japs came à 303000 £20000 ale Y1 Sd) 5055  Col ge Lyk Lob Malo Ve lod) db peo ge Lab Mb Gaal db ge Jes  rl ES SN eV JY WORE IEEICEY JPL WML NT REPU IN 19g VAP TPU TN Jus 5 LAC NU)  pen) RAUL pins ASL JU) Cle ges BSall Jens ls Cyan! Ld goss al
15 or JUS pity pW by GLEN mus Gb SU Shea (dl 0S (pe le Ba pees  o Bppidl EU gps (300 bs  colar ol 6 Golly) peed! Ld! aloud tbs Laat Lyd es 151 € age wl Jb  TY FR FER VU NOR | J WH JE “I EN ICTY EP TR  pp—dadly Bolan YI ppladl ow § drow pes 0 Role Bay uisill Wall tie UM — ADI  ol V1 phat (ho 3S, cand BALL Boel Suisll pur ped! BUSY 4 BLY)  whl dba de clas gobee 350 Vds oY oe ath) Wyo (Golder) "Jas 7 Bie Really  Humanisme moderne" 3yolactl 3b Yl Ball” LSI IE JL) FC IR. 1 J ws dl Rs  US vx ol she 6 lad Lut pedis AIT apslaa Vly Bolas V1 Asa Goss an 6 Nue 53  « Lzitiés bolas od cle 56  ide cla bd cert ogg wl ie dun By plait alt J asa Sp aay OU AIS Ly  Tolan Jai 6 Sel NS od oe Lad path oly OL yas degpadl VOST Lo ass  Une” G3Sp Bled duanead pss oly LLU VOLE 5 delan VU pli (Lob oaSen € pS)  penal yet Lgahily Golo sles py ol Bags 6 aps ao) sl 4 73,0607 5 (Gaal)  REVIT I DPS hell UN INI Apr MS to I Teo  fied ale Ladson ob OU glo¥lgpe Jus Ÿ Seal) Sumy cong ge 975 WL — yg  iepb ide (of Ÿ GLo¥l gga Bled. oI JS FR Jiamllods cay 5) pial  JL 8Luss Apall obs à Gol eb deolall ddl CSS BF al Al 51 Jr 6 asd Belen 5)  Gdns ¢ Bal 210 Taslmy Lo vas 5 l 6 Ln ly ny 6 Sisal GOL 0 Yes Langan Jedd € DIN  iio 13 VI us ol oS Ÿ al payé Mie oY gb Basal IE Sle tole oe laid Bal  ha Je 6 L53 Sail AS SPORTY IS CIPIY UR IPR A JPL S| VO Jt BUIL AJ  ENV RFPTCIN | 5 ae) 7e VOR ss  wsdl Wipdl GU mB Jl uit) à Sst clbla pall SV Ji AUS § ye  v3 CBB Aus Guo) Bad 7855 7 Beal BAIL Lo pins ABS JBN cd) age  asd Vly Lash able bb Lil op ob elie is oo Jip Th ie abel Guan  Sb lives alae poly pin lil Jsaally Je, (WI Sandler pui Me OÙ  FANS Rp I WY I 74 P| IRI) ge | PSNI TR aol a JON IR JY SNE TROT S|  JIU DEN HV) TCP] QPCR she SU 6 sy) WA ges» T4200 W 1 TRY To Sa I TL  — A pdt ase Bhi JU. say wel JB SO badly Lob dy BP ple es  ball AK sds o) pee goo Yu geal Be or Mo Gl aay) Bayle Ld pais  —sdly eR J op Bes lusqaey Lolo Ne wei à dat 2.) dag 3,55 «dt Vy 1 Gress  pled Gail ad cli or dail ull La alll ah! All SA AU ques Sade  NETICS [I V5 W% [1> § | QRAVRR DEVO RR VR VO) WF Ti SYR IT Qu  diol oyu ghd Gur Guiadl JB BI geal Tia ol su SU 6 US (JB Tul  col ans SAIT ell SLL Gy pall pee SUnam Alaa gilt ced Jala Jal 5  os pihadl padi lia os pp o) OBI bl ss Guenter 86 à dl JS  cYoledly Hal § 3Sms 35 oe sual L Las¥l gear deb oY à WSS Gaal ge pdt Lin  SI as ls à ola Ll cls gua Lab 4a _ ol — dba Ghul Gti et  NPFS SPGOIPE V1.5 dla SF IPPC FIL Lean 8 Kill Les Ts  oleh ail pa aly (Rill GBA ques Ball Being Goll al puis 5) he SU os)  LUN à OL! idly Jl gtladle Jul is 5 Lad pads oo) Labs aya oS ¥ gi)  «BASSE YE Bhi 5 LS pall 3bull dseadl pen Lil 977 1 GEN laa I LL  od oR cd JI Bogs col baa goles! BpSell Law all LEUR ls  Lio 551 uy. Bel hl Gli ow Abo lat D fs Jatualt Jo Jeadly Val pam  wh sly Bled) cll ppd! § Fan Lee Née dal Bhidl 05 o) clagall sda ably  JS oY 8 gz dial all GUS 5 Bead BBL à Wl Bid Bale à Wel OLY  Les als Y Xe Le XII ay BEL Lbs wots’ pp eV ll WE  a AR VEY | IF (VV JOR Sp) Lee Lie is JF SCT FPL FEY [I CR — NU  veh + BSB BUSI gS tay bod Lope pra oY NAS Less Len Js) Sp andlo de j  os wm) 8) Leds à Roll aaa Ld 13S 5S Greg 01e ddl ull awl 5 BARS is 5) iY Ble  GaJledgdl Sal Lia cay Wy Rois à dan liga dt JBL OL 5 à L Ly 6 3500 Lia Jan (boas  PRIN VCC RTI TIPO PST 85 à WE) CYL Les Luke VON | IFLR FA VR RTOS ade pW Ls, BS sale 3,6 od 45  o Leh 23 SUL LU Vis PUS ep 5) Jug dl 38 03 4 Lialotioas Lens Ue opto SLE = Le!  dL Bl peli oSaipadl ame l 5 SIN Ja dy VV AQU à OUI Glue 5 LY yyy
332   «LÉ Sly 32930 Sle Bats Jae J SA AI Vpn Ie CUS of LSU  JUL goss J Laale 15h eo lists IGE Jul) JUAN Lil J bene 131 ody  Aguas ly Anal Ayo dt Jean ail Spl Bole Bead dd pone Guat à SLI Le OX  FH J | J 1°) BN | APY CUTS PT J A WX UP NPB JOURN | SUBI 5 WRC IES PACE NN LJ VRS  FR JPRYG NEM FE [OF I WU RV [PRRPINT IC RIN EVA Ro a X SRR PW) I Lx AR = 1 US. ESN 1  La hynss pM! A 5) camo) tee Je € lad 939 deuil Cpaall ple Deus S bY  L_gulasl Luis SV Canad 6 RAA cantdl ud à pn dé oo 3) (py 0804 1355 WBE Ly  Las biSy Leds  cal LAR JI pelo) ps0 Glad Lia milo) wp) Yo dat)! Fee — 110A  ALL Agydga il Slat gust Bos cool ally yar /PNA Bel liar Wel pue 5  Lux piled! pds LS Conde 1 wus Jhu poladl Us pds AB 85 V1 6 pal SLI JU  db wussy Blas! Leeds Boke Spel Tuga blu pal carly Liss pede dede 3le day  Al hull LAS YE PUI Vie vay Ly pals go) LS il Joly  FRRIPYII I NTT APR PN | PPI] DCJ LRN IK [PIC PRR 40 55 NN pe BNP  rer VW IUT GE» de Leds Sub VV ll J coeds 5 SV LOS YI Voll gb  Ly cual Bin lew gp GUN 98 3B L wad Leb dahl IL 0 ie Jess jb Bia  elas ube ul Ubi) Blbe Lpmo ali 0 2d ge 0% bes + 4 pla oo) ite dU GAIN pis  oI Bla € FN idl Jud cba 38 MIS, sa lls $V pl che BL
2 oI Bad ssa cb wlusanly pins Jai calodl Lol Jo Laie oll clei  slo le bas gio ¥ LE ab 5) Ub) Lune ado JLAU 99,5 SN RAI giant ol  o— Je G8 Uk 6 pelle SG Belay 553 Jun G6 151 8) Bel Je € Losers J  Ll play oe WS Bis dla GB 100 610 the Fh pas 0 Bede Belew JUS YY on ayaa  oe) Ld Blan Yl Vlogs 3ptdl lal gw o3ball phot 0) sup AT Ju land, US  Wa Ll a Play Jie à Lage chuis Jinel oe 65 08 SSL 40 Jer Lass LL!  oI 6 empl hé ls Obl wis ge pan ¥ Al OEY! ee Lans Sls gl lage  s— Sa Le Jed! JULI GV aE US pay ad pw Wad Ga pa Je € Lousy Ld BL cd  —tae  pIBN bs LLY ple pls ga gd wlll UE pgs ga Lol vrai Lis 5 lad  C2) js  EDS cut WIP VB MAI host ul as | IRF PNT ou La 3 5) ph os  pret SB dues GO à Cds a ob Bash ANE cB BY SLL Geo dibs  a) pods Babul uid gee Ll  Ala 5 Lass 8 Gal JUS YL PLU Labi Uapadyy 1ail JUNE 0 6 136  PR IU | I PR P| eo! o Les 5 ¢ pad) PRL wb) asile dens po Mle o La vss db. oe
8 pal} BE KTNRRY | SRA JV TR à POS PPI] PL | EA T-CORIOR CCN ue Jan 5 T Ree  ms GLS, Wand! oo LS) Baju ide à Bad! BUSY BSL cbaall GL gel Gis  . poy | oer Shedl ass J PEt  ol 3833 Bay Cr 05 WF dasbl AYE Vs ls Roles Yl eB 51 Ley 15k  JC JUTE TINC JIS ATI SURE PUTS UO J LT VIEWREL) FRI CR Lynn
745, « ot) LY, US 5540 ddl aadl tn Ol Jy 6 golas) pth Ime day ort  ob—S x uJ I | ol ol tees LILAS] Ligue ee) à Laps Luis dg silat po  igymdly lad LUSH Uy JLo dl Gus y Nate Wn Ji 6 gen] pid Lal usa! sa ale  PRCEESN TAP Pt] BN UVP PPR (ASIE 55 050 5h 0 WICH J LEN PR JS PL EE Sr ps SLE  cash ès on geal dsasadl JAM pes Ah lee gov A 8 pla dU ala Yl GA os Jina  oI be US JY à Guill dest GUY, Glut guy oils Gb Sip dus sola! ols LBL  ——S 13 cll cbLU Lubl yes OÙ Oho be pa 5 18 es cab J ogolall  VRE SORT PRS pe IT 0 a |  ue 5 de cab 58 myo Jleadl Bia 3 2000 pu Wf ean 8 Sindh — 1100  oid lbs by EA pl ge eat Lalla, Spas a) oss 6 JEU ally pla  cup dl Rasa! clbudl J Aa, Lsbolasat Gb. Vaux JE NE Shy  webbhidl ub plozal Yl gu ued! bys lady I Sad! ils andl go Gash  eb gust pam) y Gp US 5) y» 7500 Bar Le us lasil pass (JU cdl a 13)  Lig hé ol gal Sasalt ul Wows UNS ppl Tha Bus (J SUV poy (UL cleat)  . pd  mdb ulin 03 ds Wales plane JB abs laps plAUl dussl ly JUL  ntl ane Dhow Bass oo phd à Madly Badly (lly ISA ge gaol pb quels à eos
13 osSe Bg sola Yl shalt JET ue ala bo play JUIN By ol Let Sue Vo logé Jb  wa sls Yl hs Oat oY 0 lose Yl abe oF GM ube] giball Jas oe Lbs ol  eb eplhdl 3088 Leta PIN 5 Ke ct DIM ls Lie Lagos lnk 356 pésly Len SS)  | bsnl  god Laid Buse omS date Ll gyi pS! GU à JS Lda Jy  om 0) Bite dade 154 or PSN Used! JS Lda ST Abe dle gaa ed 6 BBL 3 La
2s J Balad) bal Lynbols clad! ob RCPS PORTS sil AN 21548 WULT IRCA WOR J  head! wy Bp’ Lily Wal peed) Fay BI Ger JOB poss ob 2B war ILE PU  Gus Gl cll IL clad LY dagen à Lake 15 6 Fle lua à up db — NN:  Clin Late plaal Jee pa at SI MN Ge VS os Lagluagd salt isl)  CELE Geer 15 SUSE — ole lee — Sl amd gall 5 0 gh  FY EN LL 6 cl
(16.1) Mr. MESSADI (Tunisia) (Translation from the Arabic):  Madam President, Mr, Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr. Director-General, distinguished  delegates, ladies and gentlemen: allow me first of all to express to you, Madam President, on my own  behalf and on behalf of the Tunisian delegation, our wariest congratulations and best wishes on your  election as President of our august assembly. This Is an acknowledgement of your high personal qualities  and a guarantee of the success of our deliberations. Moreover, it has a symbolic significance as it comes  just before the beginning of the year which the United Nations has decided to designate as International  Women's Year.
(16.2) I would also like to convey my deep appreciation and my country's gratitude to the Executive Board,  the Director-General and the Secretariat for the dedicétion they have all proved at all levels, and the effi-  clency they have shown in the service of the Organization's principles and objectives.
(16,3) I would be falling in my duties if 1 did not welcome the new countries which have joined our Organ-  zation as Member States, namely, the People's Democratic Republic of Korea and the Republic of San  Marino, or as Associate Members, namely Papua-New Guinea and Namibia, Their admission to the Organ-  ization will strengthen its reputation, consolidate its action and enhance the universality of its vocation all  over the world, The prospective admission of Guinea Bissau to our Organization is particularly gratifying.  On this dccasion, 1 should like té greet all those who,” thanks to their staunch struggle and self-denial, have  made {t possible for such a great event to take place in that sister African country and for the principles of  justice and brotherhood, which are the basis on which our Organization is founded, to emerge victorious in  that country.
(16.4) I am also pleased at the return of Portugal to our ranks, after it has courageously embarked on  giving up its colonialist policy and finelly declared its determination to re-adopt thé prindiples of freedom,  justice and respect for human rights. The whole of Africa expects, therefore, that Portugal will give sub-  stance to thät determination by actually liberating all the territories concerned. There should then be no-  .thing to prevent the re-establishment of normal relations based on mutual respect between Portugal and the  African countries and other countries of the world which had stood against its colonialist policy.
(16,5) In this same vonnexicn and within the context of liberating peoples which have been the victinis of.  flagrant injustice, and in order to promote the principles of the United Nations, the question of admitting  the Palestine Liberation Organization to Unesco has been put forward. The delegation of Tunisia takes  note with full satisfaction of the resolution adopted whereby the representatives of thie Palestine Liberation  Organization, recognized by the League of Arab States, are invited to attend this eighteenth session. Such  an initiative by the international community is ample proof of the increasing conviction of world opinion that  in their valiant struggle against zionist colonialism, their demand to return to their homeland and regain  their legitimate rights as well ag thelr existence as a free and independent country, the Palestinian people  deserves for its voicë to be heard and deserves thé solldarity of all péoples who believe fh‘the principles  of justice, freedom and peace, which lie at the basis of Unesco in particular and the United Nations in gen-  eral. We would also like to express our satisfaction at the resolution associating the African liberätion  movements recognized by the Organization of African Unity with the deliberations of this Unesco Conference,  + -
(16,6) Madam President, I wish now fo express the views of the Tunisian delegation in respect of the Draft  Programme and Budget for 1975/ 1976 and to make à few remarks and suggestions which are aimed et con-  tributing to the ¢ollective thinking and objective analysis to which we are bidden at this Conference with a  view to determining the main guidelines for the planning of the Unesco programme,
(16.7) My first remark is that a quick glance at the Draft Programme submitted tb us shows that the centre  of the Organization's activities has begun to shift towarda culture, While this part of the Draft Programme  only accounts for some 17 per cent of thé tétal allocations for Part II of the Budget, the incrcese of 7,1 per  cent in allocations for culjure,, in fact the biggest increase in the Programme, indicates a clear trend, The  increased attention given to cûlture dime - as the Director-General } imself has pointed out = at putting cul-  ture sodner or later at the centre of the wholé programme, We weluome this trend, for it brings our Organ-  ization back to ite initial mission, that is the service of culture, 1 raean culture in the broadest and truest  sense which would inevitably embrace education and science anid goes beyond them to a broader and loftier  concept, namely the overall well-being and prosperity of civilizations of all nations, Our Organization had  embarked in the past years on a wonderful venture for the development of education, resolutely making it  for many years the centre of Îté activities. This evoked a wide response in our Arab world as well'as on  our Afriéan continent, whose recently independent countries have supplied new blood to oùr Organization,  However, social, economic and cultural conditions and, with them, ideological trends have since changed  greatly, While it 1e admitted that education - particularly life-long education - is a factor as well a pre-  requisite of economic and social development, we must ask ourselves what edutation would be it it did not  have as its basis and as its quintessence the concept of culture, which consists in that living, ever-changing  and ever self-renewing set of cultural values. What fe culture in its essence but a factor in forming and
334   completing the personality and a tool for changing the status and moulding the destiny of the individual and 13  the community? Nevertheless, culture is \indoubtédly a dialectic whereby nian proves that he te master of  his own destiny and that he takes responsibility for the development of the social conditions, the moral,  artistic and scientific systems and thé ecoñomic, technical, spiritual and even biological relations whereby  man is in harmony or disharmony with science, But, could our Organization have started from this point  from the very beginning? Could its activities from the very start have dealt with the problems that were  and still are raised by educational, scientific development, let alone economic and social development?  Could it have tackled them from the viewpoint of cultural development in particular? It is clear that the  answers tô these quéstioné must bé fri the negative, for it häs proved necessary to deal with the problems  of educational and scientific development as a prerequisite to any kind of development, Moreover, cultural  development itself could not do without thé materiel, ‘scientific and intellectual background whicH only edu-  cation and science can provide, The evolutiôn of ideas at the time would not have made it possible to tackle  the problems of economic and sociel development through a cultural approach, ever if, notwithstanding such  obstacles, we had triéd to do so, Fortunately, however, things hävé gréatly changed since then, The pro-  gress made in the field of analysing the multiple and complex aspects of overall, integrated development,  on the one hand, and the development of ideas and the acquisition of an adequate body of experience on the  other, have enabled us to realize that the interpenetration of education, science and culture, which make  up Unesco's programme and field of activity, is an irrefutable fact,  {16,8) On the basis of this thinking, we would Mke Unesco's programme to reflect à balanced structure of  projects which underlines priorities and establishes linkages between the different fields, Thus, every  project will be based on the firidirigs of research, thinking and expérlerice derlving from other projects.  It seems, however, that the programme is still too dispersed and that it comprises many fragmentary and  narrowly based projects, It 1s still noticeable that balance has not yet been achieved within each part of  the programme, Interdisciplinary projects are still very few and the nultidisciplindry approach to the  study of major problems is still in {ts very early stages, To niake my point clear, ! shall mention ‘nly,  as an example, the consultations organized with respect to cultural policies, In fact this is a casé (n point  since cultural policies have to be examined in relation to specific educational and scientific policivs, as  well as in relaton to the general policy adopted in the field of economic and social development, Any study  of cultural problems in isolation from the relevant educational, scientific, social and economic setting is  bound to lead to the adoption of a prejudiced, incomplete outlook which would do harm to cultural develop-  ment iteelf. Here, more than in any other field, a comprehensive and multidisciplinary outlook must pre-  vall, We are convinced that the task of promoting such a comprehensive and integrated approach to educa-  tion, science and culture, which alms at the changing of society and the radical transformation of clvill-  zation, should be primarily entrusted to an Organization like Unesco,
(16,9) This brings Unesco face to face with a grave responsibility at the highest level such as it has never  faced before, and indeed it is worthy of such a lofty mission, Only the international community which meets  within Unesco and which thinks out ite present situation and rethinks its future under the auspices of Unesco
16 capable of putting forward a clear vision and a philosophical perception of the world as it is emerging at  the end of this, the twentieth century, and of adapting itself to the profound and rapid changes which affect  the material and moral conditions of mankind, The action we dre all called upon to underteké in order to  meet the challenge of our tines must take the form of an all-out cultural revolution which would eventually  culminate in the creation of a new society and a new civilization, both drawing upon the sources of human  greatness and both coming up to the standard of the human individual wko will at last have shaken off the  shackles of ignorance, poverty and disease to become, thanks to science and culture, master of his own  destiny and of his world,
(16,10) Madam President, allow me now to express our views on some specific points in the various parts  of the Draft Programme, Firat, while we give our unrederved support to the two objectives the Organiza-  tion has sét'for itself in the field of education (i.e, democratization and degeneration), we would like Unesco  to exert greater efforts to make educational aystems more adaptable and more responsive to employment  conditions in particular and to the requirements of economie and :-»'al development in general. In this  connexion, more profound studies should be undertaken on the problems of technical education, particularly  in the developing countries: Moreover, we feel that Unesco should organisé'intérnational co-operation in  such h'monner as to provide for adequaté numbers of technical education instructors fo be sent to éountries  whose technological development cannot as yet meét their needs, In fact, such éo-cperdlion {s indispensable  for the development of technology and industrialization in these countries, - Moreover, the transfer of téch-  nology from the developed nations to the developing tountries, which helps them to keep abreast of the times  snd to achieve the economic and social development to'Which they aspire, should be undertaken in sich a  manner as to lay the foundations of sciénce and technology in these countries in accordance with the specific  economic and social conditions of each. It would indeed be very harmful to tyiniter technology to those  countries uider thé pretext of realizing immediate objectives without giving due attention to their individual  conditions, thus in fect increasing the dependence of the poor counirtes on the rich oned ‘and produélng a  new type of exploitation of the natural and human resources of the poor countries for the benefit of the rich  countries, The only way to ward off this danger is to adopt a policy which aims at assisting the developing  countries by planning action for the training of technicians and specialists and creating the necessary infra-  structure s0 as to enable these countries to carry out their own technological development in such a manner  as would meke such development endogenous rather than something extrinale, imposed from outside.
(16.11) As regards the natural sciences, wé would like to see the programme increasingly directed towards  those fields where research and technological applications are designed to benefit mankind,” ensure univer-  ‘sal well-being and improve the quality 6f life for all, Thus, eclence will be {nerensingly ‘confined to aer-  ving mankind and playing its role as à catalyst of progress for the enhancement of human dignity, However,  the increasing attention we might give té the study of the blosphere or the material environment ehould be  coupled with & similer attention to the atudy of the soclal and cultural environment.
(16. 12) The Tunisian delegation therefore welcomes the conclusion, in the field of the soèlal sciences and  humanities, of the agreement belwaen Unesco and the Lebarese government for the estatlishment of an  International Centre for the Humanities and Development at Jubail (Byblos). We are confident that the now  Centre will render valuable services to all tha trends of thought which alm In many parts of the world at  giving a new meaning to modern humaniem, 80 that our countries may achleve the economic and social  development to which they aspire without prejudice to tne values of their civilization and culture,
13 (16.13) Similarly, the recent establishment of the Sclence Documentation Centre in Caito meets the real  and urgent needs of the Arab countries, We are also confident that, thanks to Unesco assistance, the  Centre will be able to promote the social sciences In these countries, Tunisia is ready to give moral and  scientific support to the Jubail (Byblos) and Cairo Centres and looks forward to the strengthening, through  them, of sincere co-operation between the Arab scientific community and the international scientific com-  munity at large,
(16.14) The establishment of a Human Rights Co-ordination Unit also meets an urgent need. In fact itis  strange that such a unit had not been set up before. The protection of human rights 18 not only a legal and  political matter, Profound knowledge of the circumstances under which such rights are practised as well  as of existing methods of education and communication media ie a field in which Unesco can and should pro-  vide meaningful assistance in order to ensure effective protection of the principles of the United Nations  Charter. However, this activity which, by its very nature, should be universal, considering its dimensions  and alms, cannot be sufficiently co-ordinated within Unesco alone and should be co-ordinated at the inter-  national level.
(16,15) As regards culture, that other broad field of Unesco activity, the Tunisian delegation wishes to  draw attention to a point which it considers most important, We have noti¢ed that, for ten years at least,  the promotion of cult ral studies has depended, within the budget, on the assignment of projects to the  various cultural regio)s, There is no doubt that such assignment makes it easier for Unesco to carry cut  activities, intervene 4 ‘’ectively and formulate concrete operational programmes, It is noteworthy, how-  ever, that {le funds so ‘ated to this activity, which amount to one million dollars distributed among ten  different cultural reglons, are too meagre to meet the minimum requirements, It aleo seems that the  allocation of funds has not been subject to precise and equitable criteria, For example, only $44,000 out  of a total of $1,000,000 have been allocated to the Arab cultural region which, as you are well aware, is  going through a period of tremendous rebirth and is witnesging constant and far-reaching efforts for the  reaffirmation and consolidation, crystallization and renovation of the national identity and cultural vocation  which represent the common denominator of the destiny of all Arab Islamic countries and the common link  between them and the other Islamic countries, Moreover, it seems that this allocation based on clear-cut  distinctions between cultural regions overlooks the interpenetration of cultures, that time-honoured fact  which remains a reality in our present-day world. It 1s therefore preferable, when planning future pro-  grammes, to avoid such artificial divisions and loose programming and to take into account the patent power  and dynamiem of relations and exchanges among the various cultural regions. In fact, thie is one of the  positive aspects of our contemporary world and a valuable boon which mankind has gained through its  relentless efforts for creating a universal civilization. Moreover, we should endeavour to promote inter-  national understanding by developing relations among cultural regions, thus fulfilling the precondition for  the success of our organization in attaining effective and positive results in the service of the lofty aims  and ideals which the international community seeks to attain within the framework of the United Nations  system, The amendments submitted by the Tunisian Government in this respect alm to draw attention, at  the levels of principles and action, to the interpenetration and interaction among the various cultural reglons.  According to these amendments we have proposed, for example, that the Arab region contribute to promot-  ing studies on the Islamic heritage in Asia, on oral traditions in Africa and on the European culture of  Mediterranean countries, since all these areas are undoubtedly linked to the Arab Islamic culture.
(16,16) In this connzxion, Tunisia has decided to participate in international action in favour of cultural  development, Thus, it has established this year a model national centre, with an eventual regional voca-  tion, for the tralaing of cultural personnel, It is not too early for the Organization to consider providing  assistance to the country which has taken the Initiative in establishing such a centre for its own needs, par-  ticularly as it has declared {ts intention to put it eventually at the service of the whole region and in view  of the fact that it has been set up at a time when the vast continent of Africa is making great and conscious  efforts to improve its cultural policies and when such policies involve such problems as the definition of  concepts and content and provision of facilities for the training of specialists and other personnel required  for their application,
(16.17) Turning to communication, I wish to commend the valuable work done by Unasco in connexion with  International Book Year as well as its efforts for the development of documentation centres and libraries.  The provision of a wider scope for the exchange of ideas and techniques and the contribution to an equitable  dissemination of information all over the world would certainly further the principles of Unesco, which call  for freedom and justice and for the renovation and development of human society within the framework of  the collective endaavour based on solldarity and co-operation with the aim of achieving common advance-  ment, Here, as in the economic field, action should not be one-sided and communication must not be  utilized exclusively to achieve the objectives of the developed nations. In fact we should see to it that com-  munication and the transfer of technology are not turned into a kind of cultural invasion launched, consciously  or unconsciously, against the underdeveloped nations by the economically and scientifically more advanced  nations.
(16.18) Madam President: I should not like to conclude before referring to the grave problems listed on  our agenda under document 18C/103, namely, the problem of establishing a new international economic  order responding to the aspirations of mankind, It is in fact one of the major problems which preoccupy  the world today. Obviously, this universal state of affairs makes fi incumbent upon Unesco to devise and  define ways and means by which ft can contribute to the establishment of such a new international economic  order. All nations have invariably noticed that the world economic situation, as well as the components,  formulas and modalit{es of economic exchanges, have radically changed in the past few years; but, while  all nations are unanimous in noting this situation, they are far from agreeing on ite nature and causes, and  the remedial action that should be taken, Anyway, it Is not true at all that the surface and underground  resources of our planet, the inventions of man's creative mind and the products of man's constant endea-  vours thanke to his harnessing and utilization of the powerful technological capabilities which are the back-  bone of sweeping industrialization all over the world, are insufficient for the needs of mankind as a whole.  In fact, if there are shortages in many fields and if there are constant famines, as well as'ignorance, pover-  ty and homelessness in many countries, that fe, If there is backwardness In many countries, itis due to  the fact that thé imbalance between human needs and the means to satisfy them does not represent an objec-  tive imbalance. Rather, it {à due to unbalanced and inequitable exploitation and distribution of goods as well  as to the unheeding behaviour of the consumer sot{eties which recklessly squander resources that are not  their own exclusive property but rather the common property of all mankind, The evident conclusion is
338   that the principal reason for thé world's predicament In this respect {s the existing order, which fe an in-  equitable one based on injustice both in its principles and in ita practice, We should all be aware of the  fact that the changing nature of ecoriomic relations among the different nations as well as among individuals  and classes within the same nation can only be a reflection of the changing nature of relations between na-  tions «8 well as between individuals and the State, It should be noted that it ie the poorer countries' aware-  ness . their pltuation and status vis-à-vis the rich countries and their determination to remedy the injus-  tice of thelr inferiority ‘and dépendence that have given rise to this new state of affairs and made it impera-  tive to establish à new International economic order, This awareness and determination are in fact the  outcome of a moral stand that réjects charity which is incompatible with human dignity and calls for a bet-  ter and more equitable distribution of résources among nations, It ie also noticeable that economie rela-  tions within one and the same nation have deteriorated to such an extent that they need to be révised, - This  is due to the fact that relations among individuals have undergone profound changes, For most people, well-  being is not an entirely economic conçept, nor are the welfare or the quality of life we all aspire to both as  individuals and as nations mere economic notions though they are both based on the general improvement  of the standard of living, Rather, they are closely related and concomitant with the values of dignity,  justice and freedom which constitute the essence of dignified human life,” Any attempt to g¢stablish a new  economic order tegardiess of fundamental human rights of to patch up thie present shéttered stricture by  setting up a new economic équilibrium based on a balance between national and individual interests and  egolsms would drag us back into the labyrinths of a bygone past and would expose us to conflicts and uphea-  vals that involve great risks for the present and future of the {nternational community,
(16,19) We believe that Unesco should assume the leading role in this connexion, We hope it,will do #0 in  an atmosphere of full clarity and awareness without being impeded by any constraints of a formal nature  such as its specific terms of reference as compared with those of other competent organizations, In fact  it ie not difficult to overcome the problems of the compétence of thèse organizations if they can manage to  organize ¢o-operation among themselves in a well concelved manner, However, one of these organizations  should step forward and take the lead in this effort, and we believe that Unesco is best qualified to assume  this rôle. The international community and the United Nations, which have witnessed the decline of colon-  iallem and have endeavoured to establish a new world political balance characterized by greater fraternity,  peace, freedom and justice and less marked by the domination of certain peoples by others, cannot let the  world suffer indefinitely from the effects of an economic disequilibrium which may prove more dangerous  than the political imbalance previously caused by colonial{em, In fact, economic imbalance is much more  unjust and dangerous ‘sirice it involves an inéquitable distribution of resources among the inhabitants of the  planet and, consequently, causes the underprivileged to rise against the privileged. In this respect,  Unesco, which is in duty bound to dedicate itself to the promotion of the loftiest values of civilization and  culture, should assume, more than any other competent organization of the United Nations system, the  responsibility for tackling thie vital problem. Moreover, it is the orgenization best qualified to contribute  to the establishment of a new economic order based on an equitable distribution of wealth which would  establish justice, peace, fraternity and the welfare of all peoples.
(16.20) Ladies and gentlemen: these are the viewa, remarks and observations which the Tunisien dete-  gation feels impelled to spell out concerning some of the major issues brought to the attention of our  Conference. In conclusion, 1 should like to address my thanks to you, ladies and gentlemen, for your  kind attention and, once again, thank you, Madam President.
17. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Tunisia, and I give the floor to H, E, Professor Macovei,  head of the delegation of Romania.
18,1 M. MACOVEI (Roumanie). -  Madame la Présidente, qu'il me 80it permis tout d'abord de vous exprimer mes félicitations  les plus sincères pour vôtre élection à la présidence de la dix-huitième session de la Conférence  générale, La délégation roumaine est très heureuse de voir cette session présidée par la repré-  sentante d'un pays socialiste voisin et ami, qui est une éminente spécialiste des problèmes de  notre Organisation, et elle tient à l'assurer de son plein concours,
18.2: Il m'est particulièrement agréable de saluer très chaleureusement et de féliciter vivement  les délégations des nouveaux Etats membres de l'Unesco. Au nom de mon pays, ‘qui a appuyé cons-  tamment ot chaleureusement l'admission de la République populaire démocratique de Corée, j'ex-  prime notre profonde satisfaction pour la décision que la Conférence généralé a prisé, En mème  temps, nous nous réjouissons sinéèrement de l'admission à l'Unesco de la République de Saint-  Marin. Nous sommes persuadés que ces nouveaux Etats membres enrichiront l'expérience de  l'organisation de leur précieuse contribution.
18,3 Dans le mème ésprit, nous saluons l'admission, comme membres associés, de la Papouasie  Nouvelle-Guinée et de la Namible. :
18.4 Nous attachons une signification toute particulière à la présence parmi nous des représen-  tants du Portugal, pays qui, grâce à son profond renouvellement démocratique, retrouve dignement  sa place parmi nous, ce qui ne peut que nous réjouir très sincèrement.
18.5 Tous ces faits encouragent notre ospoir que l'Unesco ne va pas tarder’ à faire de nouveaux  pas veral'accomplissement de sa vocation d'universalité, et que, dès la présenté session, nous  saluerons dans cette enceinte une délégation de la République de Guinée-Bissau, dont la lutte pour  l'indépendance a été très chaleureusement appuyée par le peuple roumain. °°
13 18.6 En même temps, nous espérons que l'Organisation pour la libération de la Palestine ne tar-  dera pas à participer avec nous aux travaux de la Conférence générale. Nous attachons aussi une  importance particulière à la participation des représentants des mouvements de libération natio-  nale aux activités de l'Uriesco.
18,7 Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs les délégués, au long des ans, l'Unesco  s'est révélée activé et efficace ; elle a apporté une contribution remarquable au développement de  la coopération intellectuelle internationale, à la promotion de l'éducation et de la science dans les  pays ayant accédé à l'indépendance, A la consolidation de la paix, au développement de la compré-  hension internationale et de l'amitié entre les peuples, Pour traduire dans les actes les objectifs  qu'elle s'est vu assigner, elle s'est proposé et a mis en oeuvre d'importants programmes et ac-  tions qu'il convient de souligner au cours de ce débat général.
18,8 Mais, avant tout, ma délégation doit rendre un hommage tout particulièrement chaleureux  aux grands mérites du Directeur général et au rôle que celui-ci a joué dans l'élaboration des pro-  grammes, dans l'orientation et la direction des activités de l'Organisation, _ Personnalité brillante  et attachante, dont la vie s'est identifiée pendant de longues et parfois très difficiles années aux  buts et aux idéaux de l'Unesco, M, René Maheu a mis, avec fol et avec une inlassable énergie,  toutes ses exceptionnelles capacités au service de la compréhension et de la coopération interna -  tionales, de la justice et de la paix, au service de l'homme, et d'abord de l'homme le plus démuni.
18,9 En mème temps, nous sommes fermement convaincus que celui qui a la lourde tâche de deve-  nir son successeur saura porter l'Organisation vers de nouveaux et ‘Importants suceès, Nous te-  nons A assurer le candidat propnsé.par le Conseli exécutif - dont la remarquable activité au sein  du Secrétariat est fortement appréciée dans notre pays et dont les grandes qualités de sagesse, de  compétence et d'efficacité, l'esprit ouvert et enthousiaste, justifient les plus optimistes espoirs -  de notre entier appui, actif et soutenu, En exprimant notre très confiant et chaleureux accord avec  cette candidature, nous demeurons fidèles à la politique constante de notre pays, qui tient à entre-  tenir des relations de golidarité, d'étroite et amicale coopération avec les pays en voie de dévelop-  pement.
18.10 Madame la Présidente, j'aimerais maintenant exposer le plus brièvement possible la posi-  tion de mon gouvernement quant aux principales questions qui figurent à notre ordre du jour.
18.11 Je voudrais tout d'abord dire quelques mots sur le renforcement du rôle de l'Unesco dans  l'édification et le maîntien d'un monde de paix, d'un monde plus juste et meilleur. On le sait, la  Roumanie s'attache à oeuvrer avec esprit de suite, avec détermination et, dynamisme, en faveur  de l'accroissement continu de l'action menée par l'Unesco en vue de stimuler 1a coopération scien-  tifique et culturelle internationale, de contribuer à la solution des grands problèmes auxquels l'hu-  manité est aujourd'hui confrontée, afin que les activités de l'Organisation puissent servir le plus  pleinement et efflcacement possible la cause de la paix, du progrès et de la coopération entre  toutes les nations du monde,
18.12 La Roumanie considère qu'à la lumière des profondes mutations positives qui confèrent  aujourd'hui sa signification véritable au développement de la vie internationale, l'assise des rela-  tions entre les Etats sur des bases nouvelles, démocratiques, implique la reconnaiseence et is  mise en oeuvre, par tous les Etats et dans toutes les formes de coopération, des principes fonda-  mentaux du droit international, & savoir : l'indépendance et la souveraineté national, la pleine  égalité des droits, la non-ingérence dans les affaires intérieures, la réciprocité, le non-recours  à la force ou à la menace de l'emploi de la force, 1e droit des peuples de décider librement de  leur propre sort, sans ingérence aucune.
18.13 Le règlement des grands problèmes qui préoccupent l'humanité ne peut être assuré que par  la participation, sur un pied d'égalité, de tous les pays du monde, grands, moyens ou petits, par  la démocratisation de la vie internationale, Mon pays est porsuadé que ce n'est que sur cetto base  que l'on pourra édifier un monde meilleur et plus juste, un monde de paix et de coopération entre  les peuples, que l'on pourra instaurer un nouvel ordre économique international qui soit de nature  À stimuler le progrès rapide de tous les pays, notamment des pays en vole de développement de  tous les continents, et à permettre à chaque nation de participer de plein droit et dans de conditions  de parfaite égalité à l'échange de valeurs matériclles et de bénéficier des conquêtes de la science  et de le civilisation. Cela exige, tout naturellement, que soit amplifiée la coopération dans le  cadre des organismes internationaux, qui doivent apporter une contribution importante à 1'instau-  ration des principes nouveaux dans la vie internationale et au développement de la coopération  entre les nations.
18,14 L'Unesco est appelée à contribuer d'une manibre active, par son action intellectuelle et  éthique, par ses moyens opérationnels et les compétences qui lui sont propres, à ce processus de  démocratisation de la vie internationale, à l'action en faveur de la paix, de la compréhension inter -  nationale et du progrès de tous les peuples, Comme les autres organisations internationales, elle  doit faire tout c* qui est en son pouvoir pour etimuler la participation de tous les Etats à la réali-  sation de son programme et aux activités de son Secrétariat ; elle doit veiller constamment à ce  que las solutions adoptées soient conformes aux intérêts de toutes les nations et h ce qu'elles soient  prises, le plus fréquemment possible, sur la l:ase du principe du consensus, avec l'accord dé  toutes les parties en cause, ''Dans les conditions créées par la révolution technique et scientifique
338   mondiale; soulignait récemment le Président de la République socialiste de Roumaine, Nicolas  Ceausescu, l'Organisation est appelée A jouer un rôle de toute première importance pour favoriser  l'accès dans des conditions d'égalité de toutes les nations aux découvertes scientifiques et aux inno-  vations techniques, moyens indispensables à leur progrès économique, social et culturel, Aussi  l'Organisation a-t-elle la noble mission de promouvoir de manière plus possée la coopération inter-  nationale dans le domaine de la culture et de la science, de contribuer À réduire et à liquider les  décalages existant entre les pays développés et les pays en voie de développement, afin que tous  les peuples du monde puissent bénéficier des bienfaits de la civilisation contemporaine,"
18.15 Par ailleurs, un nouvel ordre économique international exige que de nouveaux pas sofent  faits dans la voie du désarmement général et, au premier chef, du désarmement nucléaire. Cela  aboutirait, on le sait bien, à dégager d'immenses ressources au profit du progrès de l'éducation,  de la science et de la culture,
18,16 D'autre part, un problème qui doit être abordé avec détermination, en vue de trouver des  solutions appropriées, est celui de la population, Il convient, dans cet ordre d'idées, de souligner  l'interdépendance étroite existant entre la population et le développement économique et social, ce  qui suppose que la solution réelle des problèmes démographiques consiste dans la liquidation des  inégalités économiques et sociales, dans la création de conditions propres b assurer le développe-  meut libre et le progrès économique social et spirituel des peuples,
18,17 A cet égard, la résolution "Pour un monde plus juste", adoptée par la Conférence mondiale  sur la population qui s'est récemment tenue à Bucarest, prévoit que "l'initiation et la mise en  oeuvre de programmes amples, plus particulièrement dans les pays en voie de développement,  afin d'écarter le spectre de la famine, des maladies et de l'analphabétisme, pour la formation de  cadres nationaux et l'élévation du niveau d'éducation et de culture de la population, offrent des so-  lutions humanistes pour les problèmes touchant à la population, dans l'esprit d'une solidarité  internationale authentique".
18,18 Selon notre conception, les problèmes concernant la population ne peuvent trouver une solu-  tion appropriée aux exigences du développement de la civilisation que dans un contexte plus large  visant à promouvoir sur le plan mondial des rapports nouveaux capables d'exclure toute action  d'iniquité et toutes pratiques discriminatoires, de garantir le respect de l'indépendance et de la  souveraineté nationale de tous les Etats, -d'offrir à chaque pays de bonnes conditions pour ea parti-  cipation active à la coopération économique internationale et - ce qui n'est certes pas le moins  important - de soulenir d'une manière effective les efforts entrepris par les peuples des pays en  voie de développement,
18.19 En tant que pays socialiste en voie de développement, la Roumaine témoigne de son amitié  et de sa solidarité avec les pays en voie de développement de tous les continents. Aussi salue-t-  elle l'action que l'Unesco a entreprise en faveur du progrès de l'éducation, de la science et de la  culture dans ces pays, action qui contribue à la mise en valeur des ressources naturelles et hu-  maines, b la formation de spécialistes nationaux et à la mise en place de structures d'enseigne-  ment et de recherche destinées à élever le niveau de la vie matérielle et culturelle de ces pays.
18,20 !.a Roumanie va continuer à appuyer fermement la lutte pour la libération nationale et so-  ciale des yauples, la lutte pour la conquête et le consolidation de leur indépendance, efin qu'ils  puissent béneficier des acquisitions de la science et des bienfaite de la culture. C'est pour ces  raisons que le délégation roumaine donne son plein appui au programme de l'Organisation destiné  à combattre les séquelles du colonialisme et du néocolonialisme, du racisme et de la politique  d'apartheid,
18,21 La Roumanie attache une importance primordiale nu raffermissement de la paix, à 1'édifi-  cation de la sécurité et au développement de la coopération en Europe, Et c'est avec une réelle  satisfaction que la délégation roumaine voudrait saluer ici l'important programme de coopération  européenne que l'Unesco a mis en oeuvre dès 1967, La deuxième Conférence des ministres de  l'Education des Etats membres d'Europe qui a eu lieu h Bucarest en 1973 - pour ne citer que cet  exemple -, conférénce qui s'est penchée sur des problèmes d'intérêt vital pour le développement  de l'enseignement supérieur, a été un événement remarquable pour la promotion de la coopération  européenne dans ce domaine d'une importance essentielle,
18,22 La délégation roumaine estime que l'Unesco doit poursuivre sea efforts destinés à stimuler  la coopération dans les domaines de la culture et de l'information, qu'elle doit utilisér au mieux’  les voles déjà existantes et mettre en oéuvre de nouvelles formules et méthodes visant d'l'élérgis-  sement de celte coopération, qui constitue, à notre avis, un facteur important dans le cours aécen-  dant actuéllement sufvi par léé relations entre Etats sur le continent éuropéen, Dès l0r8, la  Roumanie considèré comme nécessaire lé développement du programme de coopération européenne  entrepris par l'Unesco avec la participation active de tous les Etats européens, de léurs commis-  sions nationales et des organisations internationales non-gouvernementales b vocation européenne,  C'est dans cet eaprit que la délégation roumaine présente À la bossion Actuelle un projet de résolu-  tlon-cadre consacrée au développement de la coopération européenne dans les domaines de la com-  pétence de l'Unesco, dans l'espoir que la Conférence fera sienne une telle initiative.
18.23 Aux yeux du Gouvernement roumain en effet, la paix, là sécurité ‘et la coopération sur le '  continent européen font partie intégrante de la paix et de la sécurité internationales, L'instaura-
13 tion d'une sécurité authentique sur ce continént ne servirait pas seulement les intérêts des Euro-  péens, mais répondrait également aux intérêts de la paix, de la sécurité et la coopération dans le  monde,
18,24 Dans ce contexte des problèmes de la paix et du développement, la Roumanie attache, com-  me on le sait, une importance toute particulière au renforcement de la coopération dans le domaine  de l'éducation, de la science, de la culture et de l'information sur le plan régional et sous-réglonal,  coopération qu'elle juge propre à aider les peuples & se mieux connaître les uns les autres et à fa-  voriser entre eux la compréhension et le respect mutuel, La délégation roumaine se félicite de  l'appui constant que l'Unesco n'a cessé d'apportér à la promotion de la coopération culturelle et  scientifique entre les pays balkaniques, Il convient de relever à cet égard que les tâches entre-  prises dès 1963 par l'Association internationale d'études du Sud-Est européen, qui vient d'orga-  niser (en septembre dernier) à Bucarest le troisième congrès d'études du Sud-Est européen, aussi  bien que la coopération entre les commissions nationales pour l'Unesco des pays balkaniques, sont  le témoiynage concret des actions de coopération utiles et efficaces menées sur le plan sous-régio-  nal dans le cadre des Balkans,
18.25 Madame la Présidente, la délégation roumaine aura l'occasion d'exposer d'une manière plus  détaillée, au sein des commissions, sa position à l'égard des propositions formulées par le Direc-  teur général dans les documents 18 C/4 et 18 C/5,
18,26 Avant de passer à quelques considérations générales sur ces documents, je voudrais vous  dire que la délégation roumaine apprécie hautement le soin attentif avec lequel ils ont été prépa-  rés par le Secrétariat, et l'attention qu'ont apportée à leur examen le Conséil exécutif et son émi-  nent Président, le Dr. Fuad Sarrüf, à la compétence et à l'autorité duquel nous tenons a rendre  hommage.
18.27 Dans le domaine de l'éducation, comme on le sait, mon pays accorde une attention toute  particulière au développement de l'enseignement et au perfectionnement continu deg aystèmes édu-  catifs par leur union toujours plus étroite avec la recherche et la production, C'est pourquoi la  délégation roumaine appuie les principaux objectifs et priorités proposés par le Directeur général,  en soulignant la nécessité pour l'Unesco de continuer à amplifier ses actions en faveur de la démo-  cratisation et du perfectionnement des structures, du contenu et des méthodes d'enseignement, de  la participation accrue de la jeunesse A toutes les activités de l'Organisation et de l'éducation'des  jeunes générations dans l'esprit des idéaux de paix, de respect mutuel et de compréhension entre  les peuples. La délégation roumaine voudrait exprimer sa satisfaction à l'égard du projet portant  sur la création de l'Université des Nations Unies, C'est là un projet que monpaye à appuyé dès le dé-  but et à la réalisation duquel il entend contribuerdetoutes ses forces, Demême, puisquela Rouma-  nie a l'hônneur d'héberger le Centre européen de l'Unesco pour l'enseignement supérieur, madéléga-  tion tient à souligner combien 11 est important d'assurer le développement de ce centre et ladiversifi-  cation de ses activités, conformément aux recommandations formulées par la deuxième Conférence  des ministres de l'Education des Etats membres d'Europe, qui s'esttenue h Bucarest à la fin de 1973,
18,28 Dans le gecteur de la science, secteur très important pour mon pays, ‘fl convient de sou-  ligner que l'Unesco a tenu essentiellement compte, pour orienter ses activités, des intérêts des  Etats membres, et notamment des besoins des pays en voie de développement, Aussi la Roumanie  a-t-elle toujours appuyé et ne cessera-t-elle d'appuyer les programmes qui sont ou séront entre -  pris dans des sectéurs aussi importants que l'hydrologie, l'océanographie, le système mondial  d'information scientifique et technique, l'environnement, la corrélation géologique. Dans les con-  ditions de la révolution scientifique contemporaine, l'Unesco peut et doit adopter des mesures de  nature à permettre l'Intensification des échasnges portant sur les nouvelles acquisitions de la science  et de la technique mondiale dans ces domaines.
18,29 Pour cè qui est d'un autre sécteur tout aussi important, celui de la culture et des sciences  sociales et humaines, notre délégation appuie les actions et les propositions du Directeur général  destinées à accroftre la contribution de l'Unesco & la promotion de la compréhensionet dela coopé-  ration Internationales, des idéaux de paix et de progrès par les moyens spécifiques dont dispose ce  secteur.
18.30 Aufourd'hui plus que jamais, la culture devient une composante indispensable de la person-  nalité de l'homme moderne, Les politiques culturelles destinées h assurer la démocratisation de  la culture et & favoriser l'appréciation mutuelle des valeurs de chaque culture nationale dans le  cadre de la coopération internationale sont devenues des nécessités fondamentales dans la vie de  tous les péuples. En stimulant leur élaboration, l'Unesco répond à sa vocation, qui est de contri-  buer au développement culturel des peuples et à l'élargissement de la coopération culturelle inter-  nationale, De même, il est nééessaire que l'Unesco déploie des efforts toujours plus grands en  taveur des recherches interdisciplinaires et intersectorielles dans les domaines des sciences so-  clales, comme en faveur des recherches sur la paix, sur la création des conditions nécessaires à  l'élargissement de l'accès h la culturé'èt sur les rapports entre l'environnement et les conditions  dé vie,
18,31 Dans le domaine de l'information, la délégation roumaine tient pour évident qu'assurer une  information objective capable de contribuer à une meilleure connaissance mutuelle des peuples, et  à leur rapprochement, c'est ceuvrer pour la paix et pour la compréhension internationale, C'est
340   pourquoi,’ Madame la Présidente, la délégation roumaine appuie les propositions du Directeur gé- 13  néral tendant à mettre l'Unesco en mesure de jouer un rôle actif dans la promotion d'une politique  de l'information mise au service de la paix et de l'amitié entre les peuples.
18,32 Madame la Présidente, pour mener à bien les tâches qu'elle s'est vu assigner, l'Organisa-  tion a besoin de moyens edéquats, c'est-à-dire non seulement de spécialistes et d'experts chargés  d'exécuter le programme, mals aussi de ressources budgétaires appropriées. Tout en recomman-  dant une utilisation plus efficace de ces ressources, la délégation roumaine appuie les propositions  du Directeur général et les propositions concernant le programme et le budget pour les années
1975-1976, telles qu'elles figurént dans le documént 18 C/5,
18,33 Tels sont, Madame la Présidente, les principaux points que la délégation roumaine juge  nécessaire dé soulignér dans le cadre du débat de politique générale, Nous exprimons l'espoir  que la présente session, par l'esprit qui animera ges travaux et par les décisions qui seront prises,  permettra àl'Organisation de réaliser de nouveaux et importants progrès et de répondre ainsi aux  aspirations des peuples à un monde meilleur et plus juste, En ce qui la concerne, la Roumanie  continuera d'oeuvrer avec un intérêt accru pour que l'action de l'Unesco puisse contribuer d'une  manière toujours plus efficace au développement de la coopération entre les peuples, à la promo-  tion de la paix et au renforcement de la compréhension internationale. Merci, Madame la Pré-  sidente.
19, The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Romania, and I give the floor to H, E, Mr. Abdulla Oran  Taryam, head of the delegation of the United Arab Emirates,  (veal ipl CLLYNIL0) vp plas alll up wedi v.  oy pulp à gras osidl tla) PL, Solid! Cleo à dl Bn) Bled Buel  dy pH ALY pdt Vid Bt, elim Yamal pl ell ial 1 à Bussdl 3a LLY  — ill Gol Jai, — sed! pel) Lice fla Jy ud) pen or se cob 3) AI pussy  Glo al 5205 J dmbagl Spar pedo S3b J BAI 0 (Ld Gb Gels cl 5  Ja) oo 6 pales BBall appl Ve Gall galas pags à gSpdl Lidl pas a)! de LH  las gpa VUauly € Bob JL Jal Je  RSS pd 5 III A8 FO | sl WHI RUS [1 TRCN I pT pee RE TR VON  edd abn dl sds Gb Leds IM oe 1 pres il pal SU BE, ALAN Go oe Ble  gy pat 5 Lot JUT ast 6 lil ile las go Boland ll Jobs J  JUROR J FO PPR. CT J Lux WC J | cal UT Je Come GISI is ge LS 0 |  dell Lataal 3300) addy  |W SP WU | PY PU RV au) YO | DAK a IAE = VL BT Rg BY
2 Ylse 5 14 tt lil ue 80 des (bb owls I GU 0540 « VO I | ICON |  oi Rabid pb dudls 01515 Jbs dad foal JUL Go pan Shes ly 6 Sie) Jus  Lita) émail, Lu quel J Ges glo JS eur dl pull ga Lui LS, Longs  hell Galley  Lis It appl gutsy sSeipll ar p32 6 I poll deals ob Bt à ptt Bt) Bel vo  Jol sear sal I pattl SL JAN Je gd Ja) or Boel Lids Yl  Spell Bg) MoS pu I iis ly coal Lelbly Galati Ladl J Las!  ' cole Yl Jo tly Aad Lasd gles! Sr blast 6 Leslhnubes  Lagu pla YE oly à ABUS dus § pl Lope JD S01 Spd! che! uly  (ORR PR DE NPT vus TERETE JUIN ARIST BN PUSSVNET RE SLE uses  Spe Joly oly pt OV pS JA 13 en Wh Lobes Wugge on Bola (gb Loymy  NE URIA ETS FES WER | I NYU PRE. CO  CUA BE Les alt Ll ISNT ag OU bad) Bll leben Belg — vn  Gaul 1 ay1/14ys pled old pape Leds ul Bed) pp (Jb Gils LS  BE TN BPN PUTO: TT WATS IDES [Rp NIT PUIS EAC SVT © PULL LIS us J  dl cube  clolazsd pally UTA pue Tppadl BEAL Bul ud pial olaadl ads ol Bad ll LÉ — yy
5 dy Ml V1 CVT I WH PRY INT RT ICR fp Male RES OAI CUBA Abu) PRE NT  dei op F2 LEU 1 elbibndly ell Gt elas dan) gb J aol ls We yoy  od Linley chui sda halon Ble raver ayy 2b pbpdl 5581 Jun  coast salt
13 mW Id LAN sas §oSussdl po BL July dassdl dealt CL IE Se Aa vy  Cuba lanl pall puss) cell dl pL) snd 6 Gh udl gladly  olay alle by Gb § Jp gr a LV ppes MALI upd) aislan 5 JU Wy.  | BUSSE IN | PR owed! dua Ug Gas GI Plon Yl ets wpe 6 3800 Ral pl g  ——adoall sh clit hphéall slusly Spl ASS Jud! pen pap gE JY Sola  Caleb ay ASE sds Aga ld ALAIN  pla le Lage Ldbianl edb all agndl 200 Jul hes (1 JL WB à SEAL py — vo)  p—LaJl pus or 3 Lise Yl pélesil gore 1) 25 Ul il Lely Las Lad Sag dl ve pl  osLall Spl CIs all Jp a de er on pitas Tedd] dal CL NE Abu ols € Len bail  lwo ue ae 1353 La 6 np lés Vly oud! Lbs Gob os Aenelaail Laalyy jobs 5 Les  Jbl lis oats  ip—had Lis Jpnediiay BAIE MN gla Chall Slay las Yi Sas dl Cals yyy  ood liad] ES gs gi dubiaadl Jens oY git à sSaisell abl 5 ELA SN Logis JSLedl sia  ila dads à gladly FUIT 5 ab 5 Beas ally 6) sladbs os dl east oe led  edd Blo oad  apt fb depill GE Rolés Bad VE CII I sud ue Toe SELS US ol US Jb vy. ny  dB VV JC APY) RECN  al Jud 3 tele) Wop Swnd! dislas o) dusadl gall LLY 340 3S seis — VOIE  ass dE Ada il JL Ge BOLE 5 Less lens pusadly STE 5 Bag, LY Gus (§  Casal pw Ball Ge aged! Bday plaid! lue 5  lage JB Je pled Glial ge dpb cole Il Bpadl SLI 8 6 baat) Fase — vse  mk 505 ams  eaebll Lal Lule cul Ldn Jb das 51 dn  Come S33 6 JES Jig By Leg) JA) Shen iss 55 De IN Godt Vol) opt Lelio on  ga BLL yo Jules Lu) 59 oad Bla paye pb IOs desl aged c LLY 340  plait paddy desi bbs Go Lesig La) § ae bh VAI (J Ble Bas Jeg psd Le)  dur $d leaded! obi) Beadaall clusbadl roa dl ullpnt) sed! Calo (2a) LS  yee lindl Glia ge plat MS pull pill ge deal puis cole J BLE plu on  cael! clubdl gos) aadasdl ahd clause 5  Glad) ap LIU Lobe JUWSsaly LU Lb poss) aay la deSedl Jas cisdl Geis js — VONT  NE VRPRNI IF) J WYP sphee pd) Pip SICCT JN Y SER dis publ CS  pal poy Le LE 5 paladly BBL Ball Ve (daly bbs ddl chi 0  bil alone paleail 8 Gopi GB id Lp all gag gE GB 0B Lad tly  FN NU Jet J JW IRURR ETS [FIV S PRIRIF JOR FL IIE WI FORTS SP IPUSE LIP er LPI)  . FOUR PS || Ey cu
(100) de whe L'IAYC 11ayr ob I ods Glam pall ELLE collaul  atl tal las) ol ceded) 3 ça yd  Jest pedacdl DIY wala st LUBY lanl Cola à palaall piss Taped cazaly  eh wh Lastt à Le obs P| Jolssy — dsp aa lay ¢ hyless 113 aa Less 1 aplioy A3  : sore ptm  à eu ayt tb or LA IH doo Bel Lily LMI sus lanl vols Wy  s Y4Y€ wt! pt  gill Adal alot Gel pedal Slust (J Lala) mpd oh Bgl cope US
342   — palaail ole phi Ved LE Atle lulu cians Wy ply Usd Mle Gd gen  PUNE Uy CI VIER JUN PI FRR PUY CYR ads 6 WT RPVOR Jb IEF PCHRt (REX IL LS £a Lol JET  Je. us . Lub Ju, Sed 0 dy ala peta) 331) Like Lass € BS, (1Y:) oe  pr peril) Bell claladl Le Ws ssl Ball LLY HU GIladl EI  . bse! Baul  causal pall LL 3h Be LKI pay tla Blais Aus slut GY gee  SIS TIRNT]. JEUNE (DS RTS PCN] I WPS | ICH RD [J CAVITE JX IPSC I DEJ JEW | DE TR  ABB + Wj fs à Lim dle) J opal go Bole Gb 3557 Ldelen ol 01a)
5 paid! pei JE) Gua ob tad à Lil) Gas OX Jb  ell asp 3 oo Bball 5 SANT dead gyal 30 GIG cep IG gdh Vie oe  hal § Blade gab pes Bhi oad Glatodl sls Jeans fll astedl Buoys copy  Tpmndl mdisl G3 HUI pe hdesy € AM aa elle Ÿ Aylrnol à Lsblaal past Less suse!  EW PN J PEPIN I PCN Je TR La  eb ILal Jabal gla Jp pdt slat gradole 28 PL J 6 wh — von  Gus illy 6 RU gid prbeadly sSasseld Ll fes Juassdl WY oe 30lall 3,000  eV Hla Rp ll GLO age à Al Gol aad (Sy lally GEA wll Jb Bled  ag landly 346500 Ldlan pds Bel sid Js, spas tll apts Jet Lad ol  lbh Jes Ll tll ges Lily 2 IL eal hol pease) Bile Lass Ja LUN  plas dl gaisise ws 3yulall cL Gis JESS GILG jetoall Slash € Judi Lia 5 Ges lal  Cosby dll eal Vin Gk Bled) <LI sad call  nt Say 1 hes Gt hoy Job dle ad Gladys il psd! JF Sha TW v0  Lupe sSeasdl Jolys o) Jbs à Lo JH usally appli Spa wlupad oe € ;  coapally AI ge GB 815 has pales $B 30  JETRO WL [RSJ RV IURE SRW PPR. 5 | BA BVH IPR USINE is 0 33 SOP TE WR Gt -  een gis) J I Lol sanol (Bell Gatley Willy à sSsd! Glasl Lie bal  (pandly OWN pall pis 5 PS od Wh 6 Bb ad SLI Blas 55 Jue $ CLIS NN  Cppladly WEA Ball ela Go ball 3 Lai dus Le Cdk all Beall  BS is sada peed! 5 pb lal ually Sal 36 oe st 1 usb Lesh voor)  bays (Se Olly Lala) ey pl VIS Ged she wpe oe add Le Sis!  . ss eut
(20.1) Mr, TARYAM (United Arab Emirates) (Translation from the Arabic):  Madam President, it gives me great pleasure to congratulate you, on behalf of the United Arab  Emirates delegation, on your election as President of this Conference and on the great confidence and  esteem you have received from all Member States, It is our hope that, vnder your wise leadership, this  august assembly will be able to fulfil successfully the great tasks entrusted to it go that it may contribute  positively to the attainment of the lofty aims of Unesco, and the strengthening of international co-operation  in the fields of education, culture and science with a view to ensuring a better future for the coming gener-  ations and bringing happiness to all mankind.
(20.2) It is a source of pleasure for me to head the delegation of the United Arab Emirates to this Confer-  ence which brings together an elite of the world's nations with their diverse cultures, seeking through  their membership In this universal Organization to exchange experiences and benefit from the findings  of scientific research in order to fulfil their people's aspirations to advancement and prosperity.
(20.3) My country's delegation 1e also pleased to welcome the States which have recently joined our  Organization to help it to achieve its lofty aims.
(20.4) I would like to pay tribute to the great efforts which the Director-General, Mr. René Maheu, has  made during past years and to his outstanding role which has made it possible to realize many constructive  achievements, appreciated by all countries of the world, in Unesco's fields of action, His memory will  always remain vivid in the history of the Organization as well as fn our minds, We also wish the new  Director-Genera) every success in leading the Organization towards the attainment of ile lofty alms and  high vocation,
(20.5) Madom President, we believe in the important rôle of Unesco and appreciate its efforts in its vital  fields of action for ensuring a better future for all peoples, Member States are therefore called upon to  participate actively in the Organization's various activities and to lend every possible support to the organ  and institutions of Unesco, which is regarded as a dynamic contre for serving humanity and building the  future of mankind, Unesco has achieved great things in ita hietoric endeavours for the benefit of humanity,  and people have become more convinced of its vital rôle in realiting the aspirations of peoples. This is  most clearly demonstrated by the ever-increasing number of Member States and thelr eager desire to  benefit from the efforts and experience of Unesco, We hope that this great endeavour will be continued and  intensified with the aim of serving mankind and fulfilling {te aspirations. .
(20,6) As regards the general policy of the Organization, we endorse the constructive ideas contained in  document 18 C/4 and approve the main lines of emphasis of the Draft Programme for 1875-1976 which
13 aime at enhancing human dignity, realizing the aspirations of mankind, promoting respect for human  values and developing universal appreciation of all cultures.
(20.7) We notice, however, that tha total sum allocated to the study of Arab culture is meagre in compar-  ison with the provisions for the study of other cultures, and we propose that this sum be doubled,
(20.8) Also, the rate of increase in programme allocations for the development of docurnentation, library  and archives services is less than half of the rate of growth in the previous programme for 1973-1974,  in spite of the importance of these services and the need to give them increased support.
(20.9) The Government of the United Arab Emirates hopes for further intensification of Unesco's rôle  in the promotion of world peace, security and international co-operation in order to create a favourable  climate for the advancement of science and the dissemination of culture,
(20.10) We also hope to see an Intensification of the efforts almed at liberating man from the shackles of  ignorance all over the world, particularly in the developing and the poorer countries, as statistics indicate  frightening rates of illiteracy in éur present-day world, a fact which induces all nations to ask Unesco to  work out appropriate plans and to take practical measures for tackling this problem as a matter of urgency,
(20,11) Moreover, we hope that Unesco will give special attention to the needs of the newly independent  countries and provide them with the technical expertise they require for developing their educational  systems and benefiting from the advancement of science and technology. As one of these countries, the  United Arab Emirates seeks the co-operation of Unesco in the development of its educational programmes  through technical experts and consultants as well as field studies.
(20,12) We would also Like Unesco to give attention to the problem of youth, which 1s the hope of the pre-  sent and the builder of the future, considering the gravity of these problems and their direct bearing on  Unesco's activities, The Organization should create favourable conditions for enabling young people to  express freely their ideas and aspirations, develop their creative abilities and participate actively fn the  shaping of their own future,
(20. 13) . It 1s also hoped that Unesco will give further support to its regional offices, particularly the  Regional Office for Education in Beirut, and promote its regional activities.
(20,14) The Government of the United Arab Emirates would like Unesco to Intensify its efforts In assisting  the developing countries to realize their legitimate aspirations to progress and advancement and helping  them to derive benefit from modern techniques for improving educational standards and achieving closer  rapprochement among peoples.
(20.15) Madam President, the United Arab Emirates, which has long suffered from backwardness and  deprivation, has spared no effort since its independence and since regalning its sovereignty over its natur-  al resources to direct a substantial part of its national income towards assisting the developing countries  and improving the life of their peoples. In 1974, for example, it has given 700 million dollars, f,e, 15  per cent of fté national product, in the form of grants and soft loans to developing countries to help them  to implement their development plans and modernize their educational systems. Moreover, His Highness  the Head of the State has given his personal attention to providing educational assistance for the develop-  ment of educational institutions in many developing countries and a large number of study grants have been  given to students of different nationalities to enable them to pursue their studies either at institutions of  the United Arab Emirates or at foreign universities,
(20, 16) Meanwhile, the Government spares no effort to inake up for past deficiencies, to complete its  infrastructures in order to keep up with the more developed nations and to implement development plans  aimed at refeing the standard of living of its citizens, The Government has made great strides in the  fields of education, culture and science because of its faith in the role that knowledge can play informing  men capable of production and of achieving progress, Thus it has expanded education at all levels, pro-  mulgated the Compulsory Education Act, instituted free education at all levels and'endeavoured to keep  abreast of advances in modern sclence and technology. The United Arab Emirates has opened some 100  new schools in 1973-1974, in addition to those already in existence. The Government has algo sought to  diversify educational opportunities. Apart from academic education, institutions have been created for  teacher training, technical, industrial, agricultural, commertial and religious education. It continues to  develop these institutions with a view to raising the standards of graduates, The number of students of  both sexes increased by 55% between 1972 and the beginning of thé achool year 1974, Great attention has  also been given to the training of teachers and their upgrading through training courses in teaching methods,  Competent teachers for primary schools are chosen from graduates of teacher-training colleges, The  Government has also made efforts to keep abreast of aclentiffé advances, to apply new educational methods  and techniques and to develop school curricula, Thus, the teaching of moderm mathematics has been in-  troduced at all levels and environmental éducation has been improved, Moreover, a special department  has been established for teaching aids and for promoting the application of audio-visual methods which  have proved effective in helping students to acquire new knowledge, We are now working on the establish-  ment of à major centre for teaching aids, The relevant preliminary studies have been made and we hope  to be able to niaké use of this centre in the near future in collaboration with Unesco, Furthermore, the  Government has been careful to link culture with education go that the school may become a centré for  the dissemination of ideas through the provision of school libraries, the organization of series of lectures  and cultvral symposta and the participation of male and female students in discussione and debates with  à view 16 raising their cultural and intellectual standards, In the field of adult éducation and literacy, the  United Arab Emirates has a programme, introduced in 1972, which ig being carried out succerafully, A  complete programme of evening courses 18 offered to those whd cannot pursue their studies in day clusses,  and numerous literacy centres have been established, Some 120 such centres have been opened in the  course of two years and an incentive scheme ie applied to encourage enrolment, Ae regards higher edu-  cation, the United Arab Emirates sends ite students abroad to specialize in different disciplines at world-  famous universities, A detailed feasibility study is underway on the establishment of à number of colleges  in the United Areb Emirates,
(20.17) Madam President, the United Arab Emirates has declared since its inception in December 1971  that {te policy is based on supporting the right of peoples to regain their freedom, to self-determination,
344   the preservation of their territorial integrity and the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination.  Accordingly, we welcome the decision adopted by the 95th session of the Executive Board, which reçom-  mends that the General Conference amend its Rules of Procedure to enable the Palestine Liberation Qrgén-  ization to participate In Unesco's activities and be invited to Unesco meetings as a matler of justice and  in conformity with the resolution adopted by thé current session of the United Nations General Assembly,
(20,18) Before concluding, I should like to draw the attention of our august assembly to Israel's increas-  ing violations of the repeated resolutions of the United Nations and the General Conference and Executive  Board of Unesco which aim at the preservation of the cultural and historical neritage of occupied Jerusalem,  the place where the revealed religions were born and where the prophets trod. lIerael's continued distortion  of the historical character of {his city and alteration of {ts cultural characteristics and marks of civilization  constitutes a flagrant defiance of the International community and of world opinion. We call upon the Gen-  eral Conference to assume its historic responsibilities in this respect and take such effective measures as  will ensure the implementation of its resolutions and secure due respect for them in order to protect and  preserve that world heritage,
(20.19) We look forward to the day when a just and durable peace will be achieved tn the Middle East and  the Palestinian people will be ‘able to recover their legitimate rights and return to their homeland, We  hope that Unesco will continue its efforts to ensure this people's right to education and protect their cul-  tural heritage from abuse and distortion,
(20, 20) Madam President, in conclusion, I wish to reaffirm, on behalf of the Government of the United  Arab Emirates, our devotion to the aims of Unesco, our deep faith in its lofty vocation and our full pre-  paredness to mobilize all resources for the achievement of {ts objectives. We will never fall to provide  the material and moral support and the contribution requested from us for the development of international  co-operation in the flelds of education, culture and science,
(20,21) Finally, I wish to express our deep gratitude and great appreciation to the members of the Execu-  tive Board and the staff of the Unesco Secretariat for the excellent efforts they have made in preparing for  this conference and facilitating its tasks, Peace and God's blessings be upon you.
21, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of the United Arab Emirates and I give the floor to the last  speaker, H,E, Mr. Bernard Bidias A Ngon, head of the delegation of Cameroon.
22.1 M. BIDIAS A NGON (République Unie du Cameroun), -  Madame la Présidente, je vous remercie de me donner la parole à cette heure tardive de la  journée, Je suis heureux de constater, après les éminents orateurs qui m'ont précédé, que la  présente session de la Conférence générale de l'Unesco s'est révélée, dès son ouverture, riche  en événements particulièrement importants, à savoir:  - d'abord, votre élection, Madame, À la présidence de 18 Conférence générale, élection jiour  laquelle je vous présente mes vives félicitations et celles de ma délégation, estimant qu'elle con-  crétise éloquemment vos éminentes qualités et honore votre pays ;  - ensuite, la réadrission du Portugal ;  - enfin, l'admission de deux nouveaux Etats membres : la République de Saint-Marin et la  République populaire el démocratique de Corée ; celle d'un Membre associé : la Papouasie Nou-  velle-Guinée ; et l'accueil'à titre d'observateur de la Namible - toutes choses qui confirment la  vocation universelle de l'Unesco.
22,2 Ma délégation souhaite la bienvenue à tous ces pays ; elle a le ferme espoir que leur pré-  sence contribuera à envichir le patrimoine culturel de l'humanité.
22,3 Il me plaft aussi, en celte occasion, de souligner l'importance croissante qu'a prise l'Unesco  et le rôle qu'elle Joue dans la réalisation du noble idéal de l'enrichissement mutuel par la solidarité  culturelle, L'ampleur de ce rôle témoigne éloquemment du dynamisme que le Directeur général,  M, René Maheu, n'a cessé de déployer au cours des douze années pendant lesquelles 1l a été à la  tête de l'Organisation, La délégation de la République unie du Cameroun est particullsrement heu-  reuse de rendre, par ma voix, à M, Maheu l'hommage solennel qui lui est dû pour le dévouement  avec lequel il a servi Ja cause de la paix par la culture,  Shy -
22,4 Le chef de l'Etat camerounais, le Président Ahmadou Ahidjo, a toujours attaché la plus  grande importance À là coopération internationale. 11 est pleinement conscient du fait que la l-a-  taille du développement ne sera gagnée que sur le terrain de la culture ; car, tout compte fait, le  sujet du développement, c'est l'homme ; et c'est encore l'homme qui en est la finalité, Le déve-  loppement dépend du savoir des hommes, Aussi mon pays s'est-il résolument engagé à pronouvoir  une politique de rénovation de sa culture et de son système d'éducation,
22.5 Dans le contexte actuel, tel qu'il résulte de l'évolution de nos pays et de celle des relations  internationales, la rénovation de l'éducation fait intérisément appel à la coopération interrationale  dans les domaines relévant de la compétence de l'Unesco, Grâce h l'Unesco, cette coopération est  d'ailleurs dès maintenant une réalité, C'est elle qui explique les mutations dans lesquelles l'huma-  nité se trouve actuellement engagée. La conception de la fonction sociale, des structuris et cu  contenu de l'éducation sont en train de subir des révislons profondés, Ainsi, naguère 6ncore,  l'éducation était considérée et pratiquée surtout comme un processus de transmission de connais-
13 sancès bien déterminées et de traditions établies : elle constituait un facteur dé continuité et de  permanence des valeurs, des institutions et des moeurs, Aujourd'hui, ce'qu'on met en avant,  quand il s'agit de définir son rôle à l'égard de la société, ou à l'égard du savoir, c'est sa capacité  de remise en question, sa mission de recherche, bref sa fonction de rénovation.
22,6 Cette rénovation se traduit par la mise en place d'un système qui se ceractérise À la fois par  aa souplesse et sa complexité, afin de mieux épouser les contours de la réalité vivante d'une so-  ciété qui doit faire face à des problèmes nouveaux, au développement accéléré de la science et de  la technique modernes, à l'essor démographique, à l'amplification des besoins, aux transforma-  tions sociales et aux exigences d'une croissance économique accélérée et équilibrée,
22,7 Au Cameroun, le but de l'éducation est de permettre la participation de tous à la mise en va-  leur du pays. Elle constitue donc la pièce essentielle de notre politique de développement.
22,8 C'est dans cette optique que l'on a distingué, dans le cadre du plan camerounais de dévelop-  pément, plusieurs niveaux auxquels correspondent des objectifs généraux à atteindre, En synthé-  tisant, je dirai que l'éducation comporte deux niveaux et qu'il y a :  - d'une part, l'éducation telle que la conçoit l'Unesco, c'est-à-dire une éducation globale, à  caractère extensif et permanent ;  - d'autre part, l'éducation pour une amélioration de la stratification sociale, l'éducation étant  congue comme un processus d'acroissement du capital social et de ls productivité,
22.9 En effet, dans notre monde dominé par la technologie, on ne peut pas nier que l'éducation ait  acquis de nouvelles possibilités comme instrument de promotion et d'égalisation sociale, Il s'agit  en fait de ce que le Directeur général de l'Unesco appelle la promotion dé l'innovation en matière  d'éducation dans le sens de la démocratisation. Pour cette raison, cette rubrique pourrait aussi  bien s'intituler "éducation populeire'', désignant ainsi la formation extrascolaire et postscolaire  du citoyen. L'éducation populairé, dont la définition englobe l'éducation des adultes, l'éducation  permanente et les activités de jeunesse, remplit en outre une triple fonction:  - la création de pôles de développement ;  - la création, le perfectionnement et la modification de certains liens communautaires à divers  niveaux ;  - enfin, l'amélioration du système de valeurs admises.  Elle touche de ce fait au problème de la transculturation,
22,10 Au lendemain de notre indépendance, mon gouvernement s'est trouvé en présence.de pro-  blèmes multiples et urgents en matidre d'éducation, L'Unesco lui apporta son assistance dans  divers secteurs opérationnels : alphabétisation, envoi d'enseignants, collecte de statistiques,  formation des personnels de l'éducation, etc,
22.11 Cette période a été marquée notamment par la mise sur pled d'un projet qui demeure une  des grandes et des plus heureuses réalisations de l'Unesco au Cameroun ; je veux parler de l'Ecole  normale supérieure. Celle-ci est complétée actuellement par deux grands projets en cours de  réalisation, sur lesquels nous fondons les plus grands espoirs : il s'agit de l'Institut de pédagogie  appliquée à vocation rurale et de l'Institut national d'éducation,
22,12 L'Institut de pédagogie est chargé de concevoir la ' 'ruralisation de l'enseignement primaire,  et d'adapter cet euseignement aux besoins économiques, sociaux et culturels du pays en créant et  développant un type nouveau d'école. Une fois adoptée par les responsables, la réforme des struc-  tures, des programmes et des méthodes doit être mise en application après que des manuels adep-  tés aux besoins auront été produits et que tous les enseignants en ‘Poste auront été recyclés, Toutes  les écolés normales forment désormais les nouveaux maftres à leur double fonction d'éducateurs  et d'animateurs dans le cadre d'une école qui se veut un instrument de promotion colective dans  l'optique de la réforme,
22,13 Celle-ci, je me plais à le souligner, vise essentiellement à intégrer l'école dans son envi-  ronnemént socio-économique ; or, au Cameroun, pays essentiellement agricole, l'éducation pour  être valable, doit énraciner l'enfant dans lé monde rural, l'ancrer dans la volonté de travailleé la  terre et de contribuer à l'exploitation rationnelle et totale des possibilités agricoles et industrielles  de notre pays. .
22,14 Je citeral enfin l'Institut national d'éducation qui est en cours de réalisation à Yaoundé avec  l'aide conjointe de l'Unesco et du PNUD, Il s'agit d'un organisme de recherche dont le rôle est  d'aider le gouvernemént à définir sa politique en matière de réforme du système éducatif, en tenant  compte des exigences de la conjoncture et en s'efforçant dé mieux orlenter et coordonner tous les  travaux Jde recherche dans le domaine de l'éducation,
22,15 Madame la Présidente, Hénorables Délégués, ce rapide tableau montre À quol point l'Unesco  est étroitement associée, au Cameroun, & la éonception et à is rénovation de l'éducation, Ainsi se
346   vérifie la déclaration dû Directeur général selon laquelle la promotion de l'innovation constitue 13  désormais l'axe principal de l'assistance de 1'Uriesco dans le domaine de l'éducation,
22,16 S'agissant de la culture, la coopération internationale n'est pas moins importante, Il con-  vient en effet de rappeler que nous sommes ici dans un domaine oh cette coopération peut donner  toute sa mesure, en raison de l'importance accrue que les peuples ayant récemment acquis leur  indépendance accordent à la’défiñition, à la consolidation et au renforcement des valeurs culturelles  qui leur sont propres, en tant que fondement de leur identité nationale,
22,17 Ce "retour aux sources" a constitué un des phénomènes majeurs de "l'apres-colonisation”,  d'autant plus que ces valeurs avaient souvent été profondément altérées, voire anéanties, par les  cultures d'importation,
22,18 Ce mouvement se manifeste notamment par la remisé en honneur des langues, des traditions  et des arts négro-africains, De façon générale, la rénovation culturelle porte davantage sur les  moyens d'expression que sur le contend du message culturel propremént dit, 11 faut y voir l'ex-  pression de la volonté de sauvegarder l'héritage culturel tout en l'intégrant dans l'évolution du  monde moderne,
22,19 De par sa situation au carrefour des civilisations africaines, le Cameroun est le détenteur  d'un patrimofne culturel dont les divers aspects ont autant de formes authentiques de l'univers  négro-africain, Du fait même de cette immense richesse culturelle, il se trouve confronté, comme  tous les pays en voie de développement, aux multiples problèmes que suscitent les mutations d'un  monde complètement dominé par la science et la technologie, Il espère que la vitalité nouvelle de  ces cultures anciennes et leur émergence sur le plan international à mesure que de nouveaux pays  accèdent & l'Indépendance finiront par renverser, sur le plan fondamental des valeurs, la tendance  à l'uniformisation des comportements résultant de l'expansion envahissante de la civilisation tech-  nicienne, et par faire souffler un vent de rénovation qui permette à notre monde de renaître à une  vie plus authentiquement humaine.  ‘
22.20 S'il est vrai qu'une partie des valeurs culturelles camerounaises est restée insuffisamment  exploitée, 1l n'en demeure pas moins que l'intervention continue de l'Unesco dans de nombreux pro-  jets camerounais s'est révélée judicieuse et opportune, C'est le cas pour sa participation, au cours  des deux dernières années, & la restauration du palais des rois Bamoun, à Foumban, à l'organisa-  tion des Biennales du livre africain, et tout récemment au Symposium sur le centenaire de Leo  Frobenius,
22,21 Acquis aux idéaux et aux programmes de l'Unesco, le Cameroun s'èst toujours conformé'à  ses orientations et a toujours participé à ses activités touchant la promotion des cultures africaines,  telles que l'approfondissement de la connaissance de certains aspects essentils de ces cultures ou  la participation'aux mouvements actuels des peuples africains pour mettre en valeur le patrimoine  culturel du continent,
22,22 Sur le plan pratique, le gouvernement camerounais se propose -de créer un Musée national  et, dans chacune des provinéés du pays, un musée destiné à abriter les objets d'art de la province ;  en matière d'animation éulturelle, il pense ‘acquérir des cinébus pour faciliter cette action dans les  villés et surtout dans les campagnes, Il envisage, en outre, de former des cadres pour son projet  de promotion de la créativité artistique, de l'animation et la diffusion culturelles, Enfin, il a éla-  boré une politique de protection des objets d'art qui, en vigueur depuis ‘bientôt un an, consiste à  lutter contre l'exportation, le vol ou le transfert illicite des biens culturels’; cette politique est  d'ailleurs inspirée de la résolution 3187, adoptée par l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies le
11 février 1974, et relative à la restitution des oeuvres d'art aux pays victimes d'expropriation,
22,23 Tous ces faite montrent que les responsables camerounals partagent le soüct constant de  l'Unesco d'aider à 1a promotion et à la diffusion des cultures nationalés, afin de favoriser la com-  préhension internationale, Ile savent, en particulier, que la reconnaissance de l'identité régionale  peut renforcer la résistance à toutes les formes de domination et de discrimination,
22,24 Nous pensons, en effet, Madame la Présidente et honorables délégués, que les facteurs  culturels, les modes de: vie et les aspirations des différents peuples pérmettent seuls d'asseoir  leur développement sur des bases solides, et que lé transfert des modèles étrangers présente par-  fois des dangers, Les importations de technologie, et même, jusqu'à un certain point, la science  dont elle procède, entraînent souvent de graves perturbations dans les valeurs ét les comportements  culturels des pays Irapôrtateurs, 11 s'agit là d'un aspect esséhtiel : la science’ et ld techriélogie sont,  certes, indispensables A la lutte contre le sous-développément ; la Conférenée CASTAFRICA l'a  d'ailleurs bien souligné, Mais, à mon avis, cette science et cette technologie doivent s'adapter au  pays, et non l'invèrée. A cet égard, les pays importateurs doivent se garder d'adopter sank dis-  cernement les modèles socid-culturels qui, dans les pays d'origine, ne constituent que le cadre  do cette technologie et de son application,
22,26 Heureusement, pour lutter contre ce danger, l'Unesto b'eéfforcé de constituer urt cadre in-  ternational de coopération, permettant un échange fructueux d'expériences, d'informations et de’  publications, d'intérêt scientifique ét culturel, Des initiatives se aont mullipliées, hotamment  dans le domaine de la collecte des traditions orales et de l'éditidn d'ouvrages de culturé et dé
13 science, Dans cet esprit, 11 convient de rappeler l'existence de centres de collecte de traditions  africaines à Yaoundé, à Lusaka et à Niamey, Il est intéressant également de citer la création à  Yaoundé du Centre régional de promotion du livre en Afrique, qui a tenu, avec succès, sa réunion  consultative du 2 au 4 octobre 1974, La délégation de mon pays saisit cette occasion, non seule-  ment pour renouveler sa gratitude à l'Unesco, mais aussi pour exprimer l'espoir de voir le projet  aboutir rapidement, grâce au soutien des pays afriçains intéressés. Pour faire avancer rapide-  ment la réalisation de ce projet, le Cameroun a proposé un amendement au Projet de programme  et de budget, qui ‘end à demander à l'Unesco de concrétiser ses études et de donner suite à la réu-  nion conaultative de Yaoundé dont je viens de parler.
22,26 ]1 existe, dans mon pays, une prise de conscience manifeste, concrétisée par un certain  nombre d'initiatives émanant soit de l'Unesco soit des services locaux : création d'un Comité na-  tional du libre, équipement technique moderne des imprimeries - notamment de l'imprimerie na-  tionale et des ateliers graphiques de Yaoundé - ouverture en 1968, avec l'aide de l'Unesco, du  Centre de production de manuels scolaires, doté d'un équipement moderne grâce à l'aida bilaté-  rale américaine, installation dans les grands centres urbains de nombreuses maisons d'édition et  d'importantes librairies, projet d'une usine de fabrication de pâte à papier, qui doit être réalisée  avec l'aide du Gouvernement autrichien, et enfin divers encouragements aux auteurs camerounais,  dont la place dans certaines éditions est déjh importante,
22,27 Cette prise de conscience n'a été rendue possible, au niveau des masses, que grâce À une  action d'information de grande envergure, Car toutes ces réalisations, tous ces projets, il faut  en expliquer les finalités aux citoyens, afin de les amener À participer pleinement à l'action des  autorités. Ceci pose, évidemment, le problème des moyens d'information,
22,28 L'information, chacun le sait, joue un rôle capital, non seulement dans le développement  des nations, mais également aur le plan de la compréhension internationale. Soucieux du fait que  l'ouvertare d'un pays sur le monde extérieur est indispensable et n'est possible que grâce aux  ‘mass rnedia'', 1a République Unie du Cameroun a, quant à elle, toujours eu présente à l'esprit la  nécessité de développer ces moyens de communication de masse,
22,29 C'est ainsi qu'elle avait encouragé l'idée de la création d'une école régionale de formation  des professionnels de l'information, et que l'Ecole supérieure internationale de journalisme de  Yaoundé a vu le jour en 1970, La deuxième promotion de cette école, qui regroupe des ressortis-  sante de plus de sept pays africains, est sortie il y a quelques jours seulement. Des journalistes  africains viennent là se former dans leur milieu naturel, ce qui les met en mesure de comprendre  de fagon plus directe les problèmes de leurs compatriotes, et de participer de façon plus construc-  tive et rationnelle au développement de leurs pays respectifs.
22.30 Le Cameroun dispose, à l'heure actuelle, de quatre stations de radiodiffusion et d'une agence  de presse qui, sur le plan interne, assume pleinement son rôle de "pourvoyeuse de nouvelles' pour  les organes d'information existants, et qui, sur le plan international, collabore aveo cinq des plus  grandes agences mondiales, La station de télécommunication par satellite de Zamengoe, inaugu-  rée 41 y a un peu plus d'un an, montre à quel point, dans ce domaine, le Cameroun s'adapte aux  progrès du monde moderne, La première station terrienne en Afrique pour le contrôle des para-  mètres de satellites de télécommunications sera construite, près de Yaoundé, par la Société ca-  merounaise de télécommunications par satellite, et entrera en fonctionnement vers la fin de 1975,
22.31 Le cinéma n'a pas été oublié. Ainsi le Fonds d'aide à l'industrie cinématographique mis  sur pled l'an dernier est-il destiné à stimuler l'esprit créateur des metteurs en scène et des réali-  sateurs camerounais ; il sera épaulé par un complexe cinématographique actuellement à l'étude,  De même, on projette la création d'un service technique d'animation audio-visuelle.
22,334 Pour marquer l'importance accrue que mon pays attache aux problèmes de l'information’en  général, nous avons proposé deux projets d'amendement dans le cadre des résolutions relatives,  d'une part, À l'agsistance de l'Unesco en matière de radiodiffusion, de télévision, de cinéma et  pour la production et la distribution de matériels audio-visuels, et d'autre part à la formation du  personnel de bibliothèque, de documentation et d'archives.
22.33 Le Cameroun souhaite que l'Unesco soutienne l'action des Etats membres par l'envoi de  consultants, l'octroi de bourses et l'organisation d'expositions et de festivals de filme et de photo-  graphies,
22,34 Madame la Présidente, Excellences, honorables délégués, j'ai voulu à mon tour et au nom  du Cameroun appeler l'attention de la Conférence sur quelques aspects actuels de la coopération  internationale, De l'avis de mon pays, il s'agit, en fait, d'une restauration de la dimension cultu-  relle dans les relations entre peuples et la coopération entre les Etats. C'est lb, de toute évidence,  un programme d'envergure, mais dont nous sommes persuadés qu'il eat à la portée de la commu-  nauté internationale, à une condition toutefois : que le développement des péuples cease d'être perçu  comme une notion exclusivement économique, et que lui soit associée l'idée da développement inté-  gral, entspdue comme une totalité culturelle et d'abord humaine, Pour que triomphe une telle con-  ception, wa délégation ne doute pas de la détermination et du rôle irremplaçable de l'Unesco, qui,  de son st, peut compter sur l'appui résolu de mon pays pour le succhs d'une cause dont dépend,  en définitive, la survie de la civilisation d'aujourd'hui et de demain,
22,36 Au moment de quitter cette tribune, Madame la Présidente, laîssez-moi réaffirmer avec 13  force la foi ardente du Cameroun én l'oeuvre de 1'Unesco, Laissez-moi redire, tant cette vérité  s'impose, qu'en ces temps troubles et incertains, oh la richesse des uns est une insulte & la mi-  sère des autres, of l'instruction des uns est une injure à l'analphabétisme des autres, oh le ra-  cisme jette l'opprobre sur l'espèce humaine, ot la violence et les guerres se moquent de la paix,  où la remise en cause des vrales valeurs humaines et sociales menacent la civilisation, bref, oh  la force, la discrimination, la domination, l'injustice défient le droit et la morale, laissez -moi  redire que le Cameroun voit en l'Unesco le phare qui doit éclairer l'humanité dans sa marche col-  lective en avant, Cette marche, tantôt lente et hésitante, tantôt ferme et accélérée, il dépend des  hommes de la maintenir sur la voie de l'accomplissement de leur meilleur destin, Le progrès de  la civilisation universelle, la survie de la race humaine sont À ce prix,
22,36 Parce qu'elle s'occupe et se préoccupe de l'éducation, de la science, de la culture et de  l'information, l'Unesco fait partie de ces institutions engagées à tenir le pari permanent de la vic-  toire concrète du progrès et du bien, entendus à la fois comme {déaux et réalités, sur la régres-  sion et les forces du mal, ' -
22,37 Que notre Organisation s'installe dans la routine et dans une vision superficielle des grands  problèmes de la vie des sociétés, elle est condamnée, Qu'au contraire elle sache rester auda-  cieuse, attentive aux leçons du passé et du présent et ouverte sur l'avenir, qu'elle sache écouter  les interrogations et aspirations profondes et irréductibles des peuples et essaie de leur proposer  à temps des réponses appropriées, elle pourra tenir la promesse de sa vocation,
22,38 L'inébranlable conviction du Cameroun est que la paix et le progrès se gagnent non pas sur  le champs de bataille, mais dans l'esprit des hommes, c'est-à-dire par l'éducation, Le combatet  le succès de l'Unesco sont aussi ceux du Cameroun, ceux de tous les Etats membres, ceux de tous  les hommes.
22.39 Je forme des voeux pour que, grâce aux résultats positifs des travaux de cette dix-huitième  session et à notre foi retrempée aux sources de l'institution, l'Unesco poursuive sa mission, haute  et inestimable, au service de l'humanité et de la véritable civilisation, Je vous remercie, Madame  la Présidente.
23. The PRESIDENT: Ç  I thenk the head of the delegation of Cameroon, Ladies and gentlemen, you will remember  that I indicated yesterday evening that depending on the proceedings of the debate today, I would  decide whether a night meeting was necessary on Friday, that is tomorrow, Well, with seven  speakers behind schedule, it is clear that that is inevitable, So be prepared, please, for a night  meeting at 9, 00 p,m, tomorrow. The meeting is adjourned,  The meeting rose at 6,55 p,m,  La séance est levée à 18 h, 55  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 18.55
3acenaHHe saKpHBA@TCR B 18 7.55 M.  Le TIO yesaés Geedy Soul] LN o dut ST ouai,