Thirty-fifth plenary meeting  Monday 18 November 1974 at 3. 30 p.m.  President: Mme JOBORU (Hungary)  ‘Trente-cinquième séance plénière
18 novembre 1974 à 15 h, 30.  Présidente : Mme JOBORU (Hongrie)  Trigesimoquinta sesiôn plenaria
(21) spon Teal gas)  »  SIXTH SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT  OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTÉE  SIXIEME RAPPORT SUPPLEMENTAIRE DU PRESIDENT DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION  DES POUVOIRS '  SEXTO INFORME COMPLEMENTARIO DEL PRESIDENTE DEL COMITE DE VERIFICACION  DE PODERES '  DECTOR AONONHHTEJ5HBIÉ HOKJAN NPENCENATENSH KOMHTETA NO NPOBEPKE  TIOJMHOMOYHH  oles Yl 389 pd ited unes rola! SLI SE
1. The PRESIDENT:  The meeting is called to order. I call upon the Chairman of the Credentials Committee to  present the sixth report of the Committee.
2. M. ETEMADI (Président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs). -  Madame la Présidente, conformément à l'autorisation qui m'a été donnée par le Comité de véri-  fication des pouvoirs lors de sa première séance, j'ai 1'honneur de présenter à la Conférénce géné-  rale mon sixième rapport supplémentaire, Depuis là présentation de mon cinquième rapport  supplémentaire, des pouvoirs en bonne et due forme ont &té régus d'une part de la République du  Tchad et d'autre part ont été reçus de la République fédérale du Nigeria, qui avalt déjà présenté  des pouvoirs provisoires, Conformément à l'autorisation qui m'a été donnée par le Comité, je  propose à la Conférence générale que les délégations de ces Etats sofent définitivement autorisées  à participer à la dix-huitième session de la Conférence générale. Merci, Madame la Présidente,
3. The PRESIDENT:  In the absence of any objection, 1 shall consider the sixth supplementary report of the Chair-  man of the Credentials Committee approved.
35 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD ON THE QUESTION DEALT WITH IN ITEM 19 OF  THE AGENDA OF THE: SEVENTEENTH SE§SION,OF THE GENER \L CONFERENCE (DRAFT  AMENDMENTS TO ‘ARTICLE V OF THE CONSTITUTION AND CONSEQUENTIAL DRAFT  AMENDMENTS TO PHE RULES OF PROCEDURE OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE,  SUBMITTED BY SWEDEN) (continued)  RAPPORT DU CONSEIL EXECUTIF SUR LA QUESTION FAISANT L'OBJET DU POINT 19 DE  L'ORDRE DU JOUR DE LA DIX-HUITIEME SESSION DE L'A CONFERENCE GENERALE (PROJETS  D'AMENDEMENTS A L'ARTICLE V DE L'ACTE CONSTITUTIF ET PROJETS D'AMENDEMENTS  CORRESPONDANTS AU REGLEMENT INTERIEUR DE LA CONFERENCE GENERALE SOUMIS  PAR LA SUEDE) (suite)  INFORME DEL CONSEJO EJECUTIVO SOBRE LA CUESTION, QUE, FIGURABA’ EN EL PUNTO 19  DEL ORDEN DEL DIA DE LA 17a, RÉÜNION DE LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL (PROPUESTAS  DE MODIFICACION DEL ARTICULO V DE LA CONSTITUCION Y PROPUESTAS CONSIGUIENTES  DE MODIFICACION DEL REGLAMENTO DE LA CONFERENCIA GENERAL, PRESENTADAS POR  SUECIA (continuacidn)  HOKNAKN MENOMUTE AiOT0 CobETA NO BonPèéy, NONMATOMY B'NYHKTE 1b HOBECTKH  IHS CEMHAAUATOÏ CECCHH PEHEPAJIBHOH KOH®EPEHUHH (IIPOEKTHI NONPABOK K  CTATBE V YCTABA H NIPOEKTH COOTBETCTBYOIIHX NONPABOK K NPABHJIAM  NPOUEAYPbI TEHEPAJBHON KOH®EPEHUMH,IPEACTABJEHHBIE WBEUKEH (nposonxenne)  elspa) pladl pital] A0 dnldl pull Jol hue oo 1g all pads or 6 dba! Gall F5  JUNE] YS {TN PPV °F J PCTS PAVERS SCH ARON S11 IL CN ue WOLF I EL JY FRED  (eb) (doll oe Bout — (LI
4, The PRESIDENT:  I give the floor to the delegate of the United Kingdom.
5.1 Mr, CHURCH (United Kingdom):  Thank you, Madam President. I can be very brief, since my delegation agrees completely  with the arguments and conclusions put forward so eloquently this morning by the distinguished  delegate of the Netherlands. To summarize, we would be in favour of a modified proposal aimed  at dealing specifically with the exceptional problem that can arise when a Board member loses  the confidence of his government during his term of office.
5.2 Accordingly we support the suggestion that the Executive Board should be charged with study-  ing this question during the next two years. However, while we appreciate the viewpoint of the  Swedish delegation and thank them most sincerely for raising this important topic, we feel that  their proposal goes further than is either necessary-or desirable at the present time; and we will  vote against it if a vote is taken at the end of this debate on the draft resolution as presented in  paper 18 C/18,
5.3 Finally, if I may refer to 18 C/PLEN/DR. 24 which has just appeared, my initial reaction  to this is very favourable, I wonder, however, whether it would not be improved by a reference  to further consideration of the question by the Executive Board after the views of the Member  States have been obtained and before the nineteenth session of the Genersl Conference. Thank  you, Madam President,
6. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the delegate of the United Kingdom, and I give the floor to the delegate of Venezuela,
(7.1) Mr. DE SOLA (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish}: -  Thank you, Madam President. The delegation of Venezuela has followed the course of this debate  with great Interest, a debate arfsing from a proposal by the Swedish delegation ‘concerning an amendment  to the Constitution of Unesco, with & view to establishing a new procedure for the election of Executive  Board members,
(7.2) The Swedish proposal is, in our view, of the greatest importence. It has given us cause to look  again at the basis of our Organization, to analyse anew its fundamental principles, to examine each of its  articles to see if the aims which were pursued when they were laid down are being achieved and if each  of these articles is duly fulfilling its purpose.
(7.3) In tulfilment of the obligation thus placed upon us by the proposal of the Swedish delegation, we have  turned our attention to certain articles of Unesco's Constitution. This has brought us to conclusions in  the light of which the delegation of Venezuela has ultimately to express an unfavourable opinion on the  present proposal and to adopt the view instead thet a more searching study should be made of this isaue,  not only to consider the views put forward by the Swedish delegation but also to see if there is any other  way of improving the system of electing members to the Executive Board.  {7. 4)- The delegation of Venezuela considers that certain articles in Unesco's Constitution are of fundamen-  tal importance if we are to give due consideration to the Swedish proposal. We should not forget that our  Organization was created for the purpose of international co-operation, to contribute to peace and security  by promoting collaboration among the nations through education, science and culture, To achieve these  aims appropriate organs are, of course, required, and Unesco's Constitution has provided various means  of giving practical expression to the aims pursued; the General Conference, the Executive Board and the  Office of Director-General have thus been established as the competent organs for implementing these  aims.
(7.5) Of these organs, we consider that thé General Conference directly represents the Member States  and receives the direct mandate from each for stéering the Programme and Budget of Unesco; our States,  however, in establishing this Organization wished to give it, in addition, a character that is, In a certain  sense, supranationa), precisely in order to fulfil, through the collaboration of all Member States, the aims  of universality that the Organization pursues,
(7.6) In this sense we consider that the Director-General has to relinquish his national status as the new  Director-General of Unésco and such distinguished predecessors es Mt, Maheu have done, rising above  national interests In order to représént thé International community; In this sense, the Executive Board  is an {ntérmediate organ for aithough its members reprèsent the different nations, their governments  submitting them as candidates for the Board from among members of their delegations, once they are  appointed they must also divest themselves of this national character in order to represent the Interests  of the International community,
(1.7) 1belleve that, as regards this aspect, certain articles of thé Constitution are fundamental; they  cannot bé interpreted in Isolation but have {o be tonsidered in conjunction with others, as part of a system,  in order tô determine the real significance of the Executive Board of Unesco as a governing organ. The  articles that have to be taken into consideration are, first of all, Article V, paragraph !, which fs ex-  pressed in the following terms: ‘The Executive Board shall be elected by the General Conference from  amor g the delegates appointed by the Member States and shall consist of forty members each of whom  shal} represent the Government of the State of which he fs a national".
(7.8) Here we find the first aspect of the zomposit'on of the Executive Board: the linking of candidates  for the Executive Board :/ith their respective States, No-one can be & candidate for Executive Board  membership on an fnéividual or personal basis: the State of which he [s s national has to present his can-  didture and has to proceed by including the candidate among the members of its delegation to the General  Conference, However, this Article is complemented by another which ie of fundamental importance; we  believe this Is demonstrated, inter alfa, by the fact that {t constitutes one of the paragraphs of Article V  which, despite the various reforms Introduced at General Conference sessions, has remained unaltered  to this day, The only paragraph that has never been amended, paragraph 2, states: "In electing the mem-  be ts of the Executive Board the General Conference shall endeavour to include persons competent In the  aris, the humanities, the sclences, education and the diffusion of {deas, and qualified by their experience
35 and capagity to fulfil the administrative and executive duties of the Board. It shall also have regard to  the diversity of cultures and a balanced geographical distribution... "
(7.9) Here we have two criteria for selecting future members of the Executive Board: the mere fact that  their candidature has been submitted by the respective State is not sufficlent. The General Conference,  which is ultimafelÿ the body that elects members of the Executive Board takes into account, naturally,  the capacity of the individual to perform thé administrative and executive tasks of the Board; but it also  has to take into account the personality of the candidate, that is to say, what he or she haa achleved In the  arte, literature, the humanities, science and education, for this is precisely one of the principles of the  Organization. We are not dealing with a bureaucratic Organization, but an Organization or agency of  reflection, education, culture and science which needs, not ordinary men and women but people with a  broad outlook and receptive mind, who are fully abreast of modern trends of thought, science and culture,
(7.10) But there is something further. This somewhat universal, supranational character that an Execu-  tive Board member should have is confirmed in paragraph 12 of Article V which states: "Although the  members of the Executive Board are representative of their respective Governments they shall exercise  the powers delegated to them by the General Conference on behalf of the Conference as & whole", Is not  this, fellow delegates, a demonstration of the fact that the person who [ills a post as member of the  Executive Board is not really a mandatory of the respective State that has presented the candidature, but  a mandatory of the world-wide community?
(7.11) And as if this clear, decisive statement in the Constitution of Unesco were still not enougi., para-  graph 4 of Article V likewise states: ''In the event of the death or resignation of a member of the Faecutive  Board, his replacement for the remainder of his term shall be appointed by the Executive Board on the  nomination of the government of the State the former member represented, The government making the  nomination and the Executive Board shall have regard to the factors set forth in paragraph 2 of this  Article". Once again, thus, there is an Instruction to the Executive Board and to the government that has  to nominate a replacement in the event of ari unforeseen vacancy, to the effect that the fundamental condi-  tion contalned in Article V. A, 2, should not be lost sight of. In other words, personal characteristics  have to be taken into consideration; it is not merely the idea of representing the government, but the  question also of personal contribution to arts and literature, the humanities, science and education, which  are Unesco's ultimate alms and objectives.
(7.12) It has been sald that a member of the Executive Board whoss candidature has been sponsored by  his government, may, at some time, find himself deprived of the confidence of that same government.  Once again I ask myself: is, in fact, the Executive Board member merely a mandatory of his government  or does he have that personal status, thet capacity to serve on the Executive Board on the basis of his  administrative competence, his ability to perform the tasks of Unesco, his contributions to science, cul-  ture and education? -
(7.13) We should, moreover, consider the following: the member of the Executive Board is indeed pre-  sented as a candidate by the Stale of which he or she is a national, but, fn accordance with certain reforms  introduced in the Constitution of Unesco, with the preclse aim of ensuring that different cultures are more  widely represented and that there is more equitable geographical distribution, he or she also represents  a particular region, a particular electoral group. When these electoral groups sponsor or support a  specific candidate presented by one particular government, are they not also participating, are they not  also represented by this person on the Executive Board? Would it be logical that, without consulting  those who have helped to elect that member of the Executive Board, any government might be able over-  night to upset the electoral system that has been proposed by withdrawing the representative who is  serving on the Executive Board?
(7.14) Ladies and gentlemen, I think that to allow such replacement to be implemented at the mere whim  of a government, would indeed be to distort the provisions of paragraph À, 2 of Article V and make them  ineffective; it would, at the same time, tak? away the whole character of the electoral groups - which were  established so that all regional groups might be represented on the Executive Board, each group being  assigned a certain number of members on the Board,
(7.15) There is no doubt that every government would feel tempted to support the Swedish proposal - there  fs no government that does not wish for more power to appoint and dismias officials; but here we have to  dismiss this from our minds to a certain extent in order to concentrate on the essential objectives, those  which were pursued by the States themselves when they established an international organization like  Unesco. We consider that the system for appointing members to the Executive Board has its shortcomings  but we do not believe that, in fact, the one being tackled at the present time {8 the most fundamental of  them.
(7.16) For example, we took a considerable step forward with regard to the representation of regional  groups and different cultures through the establishment of the various groups for the election of Executive  Board members. However, should not the way In which these electoral groups have been functioning also  be the subject of serious consideration and detailed study? Should we not also give serlous consideration  to the fact that on many octasions more candidates have been appointed than those which, at any given  moment, should represent a regional group in the Executive Board and that the action of other electoral  groups destroys the real purpose behind the establishment of such groupe? Should not then the whole  system of election to Executive Board membership be the subject of more searcuing study?
(7.17) We support, therefore, what has been proposed by other delegations to the effect that consideration  of this issue should be postponed until a future session of the General Conference, which would be invited  to study not only the problem raised by the Swedish proposal but also the system of election of Executive  Board members in general, including the method of election by regional groups.
(7.18) Ladies and gentlemen, 1 believe that the Swedish delegation and the other delegations which have  supported the Idea of change have always had in mind the possibility - not always a reality In my opinion -  that the delegate who may have lost the confidence of his government may be a representative, who,  perhaps, does not reflect the real Intercets of the international community and the ideals of sefence and  progress, and soon. Yes, thit: may happen, but it may also be the case that a distinguished individual
238   appointed ‘at a particular time precisely for these remarkable qualities finds that confidence fn him bas 35  been withdrawn by a government which itself does not réflect progress; culture, science, peace or freedom,  What should we say in such cases?
(7.19) Our countries live, alas, in a disrupted world in which stability has not yet been reached by our  inchoate institutions. We have to think of all these contingencies and see if it 1s not preferable to maintain  in his post - rising above these minor contingencles which sometimes represent a backward step In the  democratic life of our people - a person who represents the people of a particular country, who represents  the culture of a particular country, instead of simply replacing him by a bureaucrat appointed by a govern-  ment which does not represent the real culture and the real ideals of a people.
(7.20) For these reasons, fellow delegates, may I ask you to give very detailed study to the problem of  substance raised by the Swedish amendment - which I repeal, has had the great merit of turning our minds  to the problems of the recently revised Constitution, and of fostering the thought that should be given from  time to time to the Organization's ultimate purposes - so that consideration not only of the issue raised  by Sweden but of the whole Executive Board election system may be deferred to a future General Conference  session. Thank you, Madam Président.
8. The PRESIDENT: :  I thank the delegate of Venezuela, The delegate of Mexico has asked for the floor.
(9.1) Mr. CUEVAS CANCINO (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish):  On a point of order, Madam President. My delegation Is not anxious to apply Rule 76, but I think  that În this Instance an exception is justified. We are engaged in a debate on constitutional issues which  have been studied by delegations over a period of time. We have heard thirteen delegates speak on this  subject; it is obvious that there is no general agreement and even less possibility of the two-thirds majority  needed for an emendnier: to the Constitution,
(9.2) ! therefore think, Madam Président, that it would be advisable to close the discussion and vote on  the proposal that I, in conjunction with eight other delegations, had the honour to submit in document
18 C/PLEN/DR. 24, to the effect that discussion of this subject be postponed until the nineteenth session  of the General Conference.
(9.3) May I point out, Madam President, that this fs not belng referred to thé Executive Board, for the  Board, ss statéd in document 18 C/18, has already studied the matter; it 1s for Member States to make  thelr decision. May I, Madam President, in accordance with the provisions of Article 76, môvé the  closure of the debate and request that a vote be taken on the proposal set out in document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 24.  Thank you,
10. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Mexico. Does anybody second the motion? Yes, Afghanistan and  several other delegations. Does anybody ask to speak against the motion? Yes, the delegate of  Guinea.
11.1 M. CAMARA (Guinée). -  Madamé la Présidente, tout en comprenant les raisons invoquées par l'honorable délégué du  Mexique, nous devons. dire que, notre pays n'étant pas représenté au Conseil exécutif depuis l'exis-  tence de cette Organisation, nous n'avons jamais eu l'occasion de parler des problèmes de struc-  ture, tout particulièrement en ce qui concerne la reprêsentation des Etats au sein de ce Conseil,
11.2 C'est là un problème fondamental, et nous pensons qu'il faudrait donner maintenant la possi-  bilité à tous les Etats d'exposer leur point de vue.
11.3 Même si la proposition suédoise est rejetée, nous souhaiterions en conséquence que le débat  se poursuive, afin que nous puissions expliquer notre position et mûrir nos réflexions de telle sorte
35 que, si le projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 24 est adopté, nous partions d'ici enrichis par les  arguments avancés et les opinions exprimées par toutes les délégations. Merci, Madame la Pré-  sidente.  «
12, The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the delegate of Guinea and I give the floor to the delegate of Colombia.
(13) Mr. BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Madam President. \Vhat Ambassador Cuevas Cancino of Mexico has sald 1s extremely  interesting but I belleve that in a debate of this Importance we should give those who have Ideas to put  forward the épportunity of doing so. As I have heard that the Netherlands Delegation has an addendum to  -proposé to draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 24, 1 think that we should hear this delegation. After we have  listened to those who have comments to make we can come to a decision, but in debates of this Importance  everyone should have the opportunity of taking part. Thank you, Madsm President.
14.1 The PRESIDENT: ;  I thank the delegate of Colombia. Ladies and gentlemen, part of Rulé 76 of the Rules of  Procedure reads as follows: "If application is made for permission to speak against the closure,  it may be accorded to not more than two speakers”. Two speaker have spoken; consequently I  declare the debate closed. Those In favour of closing the debate? Those against? Abstentions?
14.2 The motion to close the debate has been approved by 68 votes to 7, with 12 abstentions.
14,3 Now I put to the vote the draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 24. (The vote was taken by show  of hands, ) ‘
14,4 Draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 24 has been adopted by 71 votes to one, with 26 abstentions,
1 give the floor to the delegate of Sweden,
15.1 Mr. LILJEGREN (Sweden):  Thank you, Madam President, Just an explanation of vote. Our delegation voted in favour  of the proposal which has just been adopted.
15.2 Madam President, we have listened with great attention and interest to all the interventions  made in this debate. We have noted with satisfaction that, at least at the beginning of the debate,  there was some support for one of the aspects of our proposal, that is the one pertaining to the  problem arising when a representative on the Executive Board loses the confidence of his Govern-  ment. We would like to stress, however, that the solution of this problem is just one of the  aspects of our proposal, the essential aim of which, as we stated earlier, is to intensify the  participation of governments in the work of the Board. In this respect we did not feel that we were  able to register sufficient measure of comprehension and support, and there are still a number of  real misunc'erstandings to clear up.
15.3 We vould only like to mention the point regarding the question whether the adoption of our  amendment would entail financial obligations for Member States. The answer is “no”. And this  could have been verified by putting the question to the Legal Adviser.
15.4 Under these ¢ircumstances, however, we felt that there was ‘no point in insisting on à further  debate. We agree entirely that the wisest decision that this Conference could take was to accord  the Organization some more time for reflection and to make, it possible to have a vaster consulta-  tion on what has come to be known as the Swedish proposal, Let me finally add that my Govern-  ment has not seen its rôle on this fssue as a party which pursues unilateral interests, On the  contrary, we felt that not being a member of the Board we could take it upon ourselves to present,  in a constructive spirit, à proposal which in our view translates into constitutional terms a grow-  ing desire on the part of Member States to participate more actively in the work of the Organization.  Think you, Madam President.
16. The PRESIDENT: .
1 thank the delegate of Sweden, and I give the floor to the delegate of Belgium for an explana-  tion of vote.
17, M. VAN USSEL (Belgique).- i nro ca at i  .... Madame la Présidente, ma délégation a voté avec une certaine résignation en faveur du projet  de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR.24, présenté par l'Algérie, 1a Tunisie et divers aujres pays. Nous  aurions évidemment préféré pouvoir voter en faveur de l'amendement présenté,par la délégation .  de la Suède, car nous partageons sans réserve les idées qui ont conduit ladite délégation à propo-  ser cet amendement, Ma délégation estime en effet que, par suite du développement important des  activités de l'Organisation, il sera à l'avenir difficile à un membre du Conseil exécutif de remplir  avec autorité et efficdéité son mandat, Etant donné que l'on assiste depuis plusieurs années à une  amplification et à une diversification des tâches du Conseil, ma délégation et mon gouvernement  ont le sentiment que le système actuel n'offre pas assez de garanties quant à la continuité de la |  présence à Paris des membres du Conseil, Or les questions budgétaires et fihânéières d'une part  et, d'autré part, les travaux et études confiés au Conseil -en vue notamment de la inige én Geuvre  de 1a Déclaration et du Programme concernant l'instadration d'un nouvel drdre économiqué ‘inter-  national --rendent cefte continufté plus que jamais nécessaire.’ Moñ gouvérnement éstime' que 1" ex-  pansion et la nouvelle orientation de la mission dé l'Unesco requièrent là participation active d'ex-  perts désignés par leurs gopvernements et appelés à représenter également ceux-ci dans d'autres  organes du'aystème des Natlond Unies qui s'éécupent'soüvent des themed problèmes: ‘Il faudrait,  à notre avis, apporter à l'Articlé V de l'Acte constitutit wi äimendement qui, pour teatr coinpte des  préoccupations légitimes qu'ont évoquées iéi certains pays, “comportérait déd diepositiolis ffnan-  ciètes prôpreé'à assurer la participation aux travaux du Conseil exécutif des experts ou délégués  que les Etats représentés at Conseil Jugeratent nécessaire d'éhvojer ad Siège. C'est pour toutes  ces raisons qué mon gouvernemenf ‘espère que la consultation’ des Etats membrés prévué dans lé  projet de résolution que nous venons d'adopter nous fournira'des données’ suffiéantés pour que,  lors de sa dix-neuvième session, la Conférence générale puisse se prononcer à une large majorité,  sinon à l'unanimité, én faveur de l'amendement suédois. Merci, Madame la Présidente, '  :
18. The PRESIDENT:  I thank thé delegate ‘of Belgium. Three inore delegatés have asked for the floor to explain  their votes: I give'the floor to the delegate of the Netherlands.
19.1 M. DE HOOG (Pays-Bas).- °  Madame la Présidente, je me suis abstenu quand le projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 24 a  Êté mis aux voix pour trois raisons.
19.2 Tout d'abord, comme je pense que c'est le cas pour tous qui sont ici présents, j'en ai trouvé  le texte cet après-midi en arrivant dans cette salle. Sur une question qui regarde un amendement  à l'Acte constitutif de l'Organisation, il m'a paru qu'il était peut-être un peu rapide de clore le  débat et de voter alors que nous avons eu à peine le temps de lire le projet de résolution,
19.3 La deuxitme raison pour laquelle je me suis abstenu est que ce projet renvoie à deux ans  toute la question de l'amendement proposé par la délégation suédoise contre lequel je me suis pro-  noncé ce matin mais pour certaines parties duquel - M, le déléguë de la Suède a bien voulu-le  reconnaître - j'avais certaines sympathies, comme si rien ne s'était passé au cours des deux  années qui viennent de s'écouler, comme si le Conseil exécutif ne s'était pas livré à une étude  très approfondie de la question.
19,4 La troisitme raison, Madame; est que j'avais l'impression que, sur la base des interven-  tions de cé matin, notamment l'intervention circonstanciée de M, le délégué de la Suède, il aurait  êté possible, A la présente session de la Conférence générale, de faire un pas en avant et de don-  ner des directives précises au Conseil exécutif.
19,5 Cela dit, Madame la Présidente, selon les règles démocratiques je me soumets & la majo-  rité de l'Assemblée, Merci, Madame la Présidente. ' ’
20. The PRESIDENT: ;__.  Thank you. I now give the floor to the delegate of Guinea,
21.1 M, CAMARA (Guinée). - . ‘ . 417  Je vous remercie, Madame la‘Présidente, et je-m'excuse de reprendre la parole. Ma déléga-  tion s'est absténue lors du vote ‘eur le projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 24 pour.des raisons  très simples : la premitre est qu'elle n'a pu prendre connaissance de ce tékte qu'à 15 h, 30 ; en:  suite, ‘si dés études sur cette question ont bien été faites par le Consell exécutif et par ‘son Comité  spécial, la Conférence générale dans son ensemble et notamment ceux de ses membres qui ne font  partie du Conseil exécutif, n'ont pas eu l'occasion d'exprimer leur point de vue sur le problème  que nous venons de renvoyer à la prochaine session dé la Cohférerte générale: Ed 1976, là mème  débat se reproduira, chaque délégation voudra exprimer le point dé vue'de son gouvéernethent, que  forons-nous, Bi nous n'arrivons pas alors A trouver une solution 7 Renverrons-nous encore une  fois la question A une prochaine session ? C'est pourquoi ma délégation gouhaltait que chacun |  puisse faire connaître son point de vue, même si la proposition suédoise, pour laquelle elle étatt  prète A voter né devalt pas étré addptée. En remiettant l'examen du problème à l'année 1976, non  seulement nous n'avons pas progressé, nous avons reculé.
35 21,2 Ma délégation se conforme A la décision de la majorité, mais-ellé tient à'dire‘ ‘qu'elle éprouve  ub'profotide" frigatisfaction de ce résultdt, par lequel, selon'nôus, là Conférence générale fuit ses  Fesponsabilitéh'et remet à plus tard ce qu'elle aurait pu faire ‘aujourd! huis: ‘Je vous remercie,  Madame la Présidente.  -22, .The PRESIDENT: 5  I thank the delegate of Guinea, and I give the floor to the delegate of Che,
(23.1) - Mr. THAYER (Chile) (Translation from the Spanish}: . :  Madam President, our delegation was on the list of speakers and we have thus been affected by the,  closure of the debate. We supported this closure in view of the fact that no majority was really possible  on this occasion with regard to constitutional reform, and in view of the importance of the item that now  follows.
(23.2) Thélè © as'éed for the floor only to record my view that the present constitutional provisions govern.  ing Unesco .;over the problem of Board members who may have lost the confidence of their respeétive  governments, As I sce it, a person must, to be a member of the Executive Board, be a representative  of a State aim‘ there is a legal aspect here - the Legal Adviser will surely agree with me - inthat ftis very  important to listinguish between mandate and representation as the delegate of Venezuela has, in my view,  pointed out sc lucidly.
(23,3) Representation must exist, If it ceases to exist 48 « result of revocation by the State, there is  no longer a S'ate representative and that {ndividual cannot legitimately continue as a member of the  Executive Bord,
(23.4) What fe required is a provision covering the procedure for replacément in such an eventuality.  Document 18 C/PLEN/DR, 24, which we have just approved, is very appropriate in this respect, That is  all, Madam President.
24, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Chile. I havé one more speaker on my lst, the delegate of Lebanon.  (ols) cud pl dann pele pul well — vo 5  ol wal YASUI IB he Bill cio SJ à Aged ped dud BE 6 lag) (Fo  re JET. CRUPYUI | | DREIRCIRUVET I 1 1X 6 JOT | RTP TN I D% PARP REN | FLOR RENT 5 WC JON  o—t coal ge ol ed) or 0B aL JU 5 AIS [TVR ot Jamgedl 51711 RR TER NL  (lob BBL padsdl Lia Cayo) ela 733 ee 8 bel 5e Boke gb TE  ipa 4 LY Gaz Ye leo us J Sra o Vad La pe LS e 3,20 a lt ss)  ir All JPY | RO JOY TV J 1 VY PRIVY Vr TOVIPIPN FRE “pt | PN JE RTPI JUV PO TY  cite Wl) I pull oh dd  oti bp Jaz oly plat pédale dbl 3) Balsa J) duel alas Ws LY — voor  à Ha V1 ade of asl YL LslySs que clebu ob tly Label Jay Lbs Eo La  Ve ag sl adn 8 aula gu pedal Maa Joes ol 0 od busy oF BE Lagan fal (9 PO  Labs clo vi à Ly! À LL Ld Si used 6 Ia p90 Ol JL edi of  + ON | ICR VUREPE J GOR ALI JOT | J PR Gp 0dl ae
(25,1) Mr. HALIM SAID ABU-1ZZEDDIN (Lebanon) (Translation from the Arabie):, .. > - so 35  Madam Chairman, just a brief statement fo explain my vote: 1 voted for the closure of the debate . -  because I consider that it has already coniinued for too long and particularly because this is the second  session at which we have discussed this matter. However, I abstained from voting on the regolution  which Is before us and whith obtalned a majority because In my view the vote should have concerned the  substance of the question rather than {ts form or its postpénement. The General Conferénte has already  discussed this matter at great length at its seventeenth session, and the Executive’ Board has also dis. ‘  cussed it at a number of its sessions. Ido not think that, if the world remains as it 16; We shall achiéve  anything further at the nineteenth session but shall merely repeat what we said at the seventeenth and  eighteenth sessions.
(25.2) As régards our referring back to our governments or the question of asking the Director-General  to get in touch with governments, all of us here are representatives of our goyérnments and we vote on  the basis of their Instructions, Ido not think that referring back to them would produce anything new.  We should have liked to settle the matter once and for all 4t this session, instead of dealing with it by  deferring it to a subsequent session at which we shall repeat once more - either for or agalnat - the same  statements as we made at this session and at the previous session. Thank you, Madam President.
26, The PRESIDENT: x
1 thank the delegate of Lebanon, and I give the floor to the delegate of Italy.
27,1 M. CIRAOLO (Italie), - ' |  Madame la Présidenté, ma délégation s'est elle aussi abstenue lors du vote sur le projet de  résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 24, pour des raisons analogues à celles qui viennent d'etre expostes  par d'autres délégations,
27.2 Je regrette en effet, moi aussi, que l'on ait interrompu par une décision hâtive un débat dif-  ficile, certes, mais très intéressant et qui aurait pu déboucher, ‘du moins je l'espère, ‘sur une  solution, Au leu dé cela, nous allons réentamer le même débat dans deux ans sana avoir avancé  d'un pas ; je le regrette d'autant plus que, d'accord avec d'autres délégations, j'étais pret à pré-  senter un nouveau projet de résolution ; celui-ci aurait pu, je crois, donner au Conseil exécutif  des indications utiles pour l'étude ft la mise au point d'une formule qui aurait pu recueillir le sou-  tien de la plupart des délégations L la prochaine session de la Conférence générale.
27,3 Je regrette donc vivement, Madame la Présidente, d'avoir dû m'abstenir sur ce projet de  résolution.
28. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I have no more speakers on my list so I think I can declare the debate closed on  item 19 of the agenda.  UNESCO'S EFFORTS CONCERNING THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE STATUS OF WOMEN  (ITEM PROPOSED BY THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA)  CONTRIBUTION DE L'UNESCO À L'AMELIORATION DE LA CONDITION FEMENINE (POINT  PROPOSE PAR LES ETATS-UNIS D'AMERIQUE)  CONTRIBUCION DE LA UNESCO AL MEJORAMIENTO DE LA CONDICION DE LA MUJER  (PUNTO PROPUESTO POR LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA) | y
7  BKJIAZL WHECKO B YJIYYIEHHE NOJOXEHHS XEHIQHH (NYHKT,NPEATOXEHHBIH  COEAHHEHHBIMH IITATAMH AMEPHKH)  (WS Teal Yl oe pide wig) FLAN pl geass il ae J CP [TORS
29,1 The PRESIDENT:  We shall now take up item 64 of the agenda, The relevant documents are documents 18 C/INF. 9  and 18 C/PLEN/DR. 4 Rev. 2 (or 18 C/PLEN/DR. 4 in French).
29,2 The first speaker is the delegate of the United States of America.
30.1 Mrs. GINN (United States of America): co  Madam President, the United States of America offers draft resolution 18'C/PLEN/DR, 4 Rev. 2,  now co-sponsored by 25 countries, for consideration and adoption by this Conference, .I wish to  express deep gratitude on behalf of millions of women whose lives will have brighter horizons and  greater potential because of the deep concern of the Unesco delegations from various countries  who have joined with the United States in the co-sponsorship of this draft resolution, The unity  expressed in this Unesco document te an indication of the will of these lceders, who consider that  improvement in opportunity is a basic element In Unesco's effort for peace,
3s 30.2 Iask for your attention to the resolution as a whole and wish to advise you that subsequent  speakers for the resolution will address themselves to specific paragraphs of the resolution itself,
30.3 In'Fecognition of resolution 1.142 adopted by the seventeenth session of the General Con-  ferénce of Unesco, and of the further resolutions referred to In 18 C/PLEN/DR. 4 Rev. 2, we  are grateful for the concern of Unesco, the United Nations, the Economic and-Social Council, for  equal access of all humanity to the opportunity for maximum human achicvement. Based upon  these various premises, the United States of America, plus the co-sponsors of this resolution,  seek avonues within Unesco's competence for implementation of the diverse goals of women, It  is our hope that the resolution presents a panorama of the hopes and needs of women and of huma-  nity in the entire world, whatever stage of development may exist, We further hope that by our  joint efforts in advance of the presentation of this resolution, we have been able to touch upon the  specific needs of the various countries répresented in Unesco so as to make possible a single  resolution which will merit the support of all.
30.4 We have endeavoured to ensure that the areas within the resolution calling for action on the  part of the Secretariat are practical from the point of view of implementation, It has been a cri-  tical point for all the delegations involved in analysis of the proposals presented, that under the
1975-1976 biennium no additional funds should be required above the budget, and that adequate  anticipation for future biennia would make far-reaching programmes feasible, We are grateful  for the potential built-in for the 1975-1976 programmes on behalf of women, for the great co-  operation provided by the Secretariat of Unesco and for the wisdom and insight in planning shown  by former Director-General René Maheu,
30.5 With the opportunity provided by International Women's Year and the past support of the  individuals indicated above, we look ahead to giant steps for womankind under the direction and  the insp!ration of our new Director-General, and vie look toward the achievement of the maximum  human potential for us all. Madam President, in submitting 18 C/PLEN/DR. 4 Rev. 2, we reserve  the right of making further remarks if they should be indicated. I thank you.
31, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of the United States and I give the floor to the delegate of Colombia.
(32.1) Mrs. ARBOLEDA DE CUEVAS (Colombia) {Translation from the Spanish}:  Madam President, change is the keynote of human life and, as far as women are concerned, this  change ‘a obvious and compelling. The terms that I used, as a Senator In Colombia, scarcely fifteen  years ago, with regard to a bill {n favour of equality before the law, which drew criticism for their  radical and outspoken nature, would seem today to be timid and almost childish,
(32.2) The concept of women's claims has changed; the terms used have changed but jt 1s mainly the way  in which men regard and accept this new uprising ihat has <hzaged. To speak of women's rights 1s no  longer regarded as a whim or a fashion; today everyone recognizes that the issue involved fe that of  extending justice to half of mankind.
(32.3) The bastions of male privilege are falling and we delegates participating In thls Conference, pre-  sided over for the first time by a woman, have the satisfaction of observing that many women are repre-  senting governments as ministers of education and culture, development and welfare,
(32. 4) Historical analysis, however superficial, brings us to the conclusion that this phenomenon was  inevitable, The fnvolvement of women in educational processes has never been limited to their children  for throughout the ages they have been the mainstay În the education of the young. What {s of most im-  portance to Unesco, however, fs that women should come to this Organization as the result of their own  efforte, for the equality with men which women are seeking 1s the result of education. This te the golden  thread that has guided our path in coming to offer our contribution ta these discussions. A continual  effort to achleve cultural advancement, an increasingly strong involvement In thosé academic and pro-  fessional disciplines which were previously considered as unsuitable for women, a direct contribution  to the analytical process renewal by means of which the world Is trying to elucidate the enigma of its  future - these are the credentials we bring to this meeting which is opening the way to International  Women's Year.
(32,5) A determining rôle in the atatus of women today has been played by the United Nations and the  Specialized Agencles, A large number of résolutions, conventions and declarations have culminated in  the International Year, In the history of women's libération, this International Year should sound the  trumpet call summoning people from every walk of life in all countries to bring their ideas into line with  the pattern of thinking concerning women,
(32,6) We would like these to be à general realization that a new woman Is coming into being - not simply  the traditionally respected figure of wife or mother, nor that of the companion, and certainly not the fmage  of woman as used by advertie!ng or woman the pleasure-object. A new woman lu emerging today, seeking  to fulfil her possibilities in the full exercise of her rights, and determined to improve a world which is also  hers and of which she Is an Inseparable part.
35 (32.7) Unesco thus finds itself with an ideal and unprecedented opportunity before ft, Through the many  and varied events that cover the whole field of education, calture and science - since Mme Curie should  not be regarded as an exception, but as the precursor - International Women's Year should serve to make  the Organization redouble its efforts and become the vital factor in bringing to fruition a remarkable  enterprise, The end of 1975 should show us an Organization, similarly regenerated, which will have  established the equality that for so long has been women's due, and will have harnessed the greatest re-  source that the world possesses: the activity and talent of half of the human species,
(32,8) What does the woman of today seek? Equality, which must not be confused with identity; a situation  that will enable her to develop in the same way as men. She does not ask to be changed but demands equal  opportunities in education and employment,
(32,9) It ig naive to think that we are dissatisfied with being women and want to become other than we are,  What we seék {s to Hve under conditions that will enable us fully to participate in society, In all its under-  takings, in all ite concerns, and in all its responsibilities.
(32.10) This aspiration encounters obstacles in the developing countries, but in the industrialized nations  as well. ! cannot help but quote one of the facts in the excellent document published by the United Kingdom  Government under the title "Equality for Women". We find that In the United Kingdom discrimination  operates systematically in the teaching profussion: although three-quarters of all primary school teachers  are wemen, they account for only two-fifths of head teachers. And as regards university teaching, the data  are appalling: of more than three thousand lecturers, only 46 are women - 1.5 per cent!
(32,11) The feminist movement seeks the opening up of all domains of human activity, It does not assert,  for example, that all women should be artists, scientists or politicians, but it does claim that all who have  artistic, scientific or political leanings should have the right to fulfil them without the additional difficulties  that hamper success to the point that ft becomes unattainable. In the world as we know it, only women of  exceptional talent succeed; our aim {s to ensure that all women, who {ike all human beings, desire advance-  ment, have the same opportunity of achieving it as men. The progréss of our cause {8 not measured by the  rise of an exceptionally brilliant woman, but by the general advance that Is consonant with the democrati-  zation of education, one of Unesco's guiding principles. The force of the feminist movement does not lie  {n exceptional cases; what {s important to us Is full participation In all aspects of economic and social  life and the assurance that the achievements of progress benefit all women.
(32.12) Feminism today seeks fundamental changes in Îts theatre of action, fn {ts everyday setting.  Society must show greater concern for women's mental and physiological characteristics, We have our  tasks and we do not reject or neglect them; what we desire is that they should be recognized as vital, that  they should not be looked down on or continue to be regarded as unproductive work, as activities that do  not contribute to the creation of wealth, We desire, then, that society itself should lighten thé burdens  that nature has imposed on us; that it should extol and highlight our functions, that it should channel our  activity towards the achievement of common goals.
(32.13) The progress of science has given women control of their bodies. We want the progress of society  to give women control of their future. Their task is no longer restricted to perpetuating the specles; each  woman can and must, in collaboration with ker male partner, determine the number and spacing of her  family and make her mind more freely receptive, day by day, to new and wider horizons. With the decline  in infant mortality and the increase in the average expectation of life, the socially useful yéars of women  are being extended and even greater stress {s lald on women's entitlement to be considered in their own  right and not fn relation to other human beings; mother and wife, of course, daughter and corapanion as  well, but above all a unique social being, capable in herself of contributing something substantially new  to our era, Technology, moreover, enables every human being to seek happiness within a new pattern  of life and we cannot deny the urgency of women's claims on the pretext that many problems remain  unsolved, All these can be eliminated and women demand the granting of working and rest hours consonant  wi th their particular needs which will not endanger either the economy or the perpetuation of sociely.
(32.14) It is for this reason that we feminists assert that the developing countries cannot afford the foolish  luxury of not availing themselves of the creative and working poiential of half of their population. We do  not wish to continue to be dragged along the paths of progress and compelled to consume what we do not  need; ne want and we can participate fully and under similar conditions in the creative, patriotic enter-  prises undertaken by men, Furthermore, women, from the point of vlew of working ability, have many  inherent qualities that so far have been allowed to go to waste. They are, indeed, being exploited but their  services are not being used appropriately. So-called women's work is relegated to a separate, lower  scale and is pald accordingly.
(32,15) Only recently, following long effort, is this fundamental distinction between male and female  occupations being removed, a distinction that hae been the veritable iron Jaw of the labour market, And  so deep-rooted is this outlook that It has even affected the proper use of the language; pitched academic  battles have to be waged to ensure the correct application of Spanish grammar and the use of the feminine  to designate positions of importance when held by women, as in your case, senora Pres{denta!
(32,16) And yet ft fe recognized that women offer qualities of dexterity, lnedse and pallence that are  evident, for example, in all branches of the electronics industry. It might be thought that women have  overcome cne of the obstacles that placed men's and women's work on a different footing, but this fo not  so. Sex discrimination at work assumes the most insidious forms. We see this In a striking example  given by Evelyne Sullerof in her Important work on the labour situation In France, finotyping has, since  time immemorial, been considered as an exclusively male occupation. But with the arrival of electronics  the Iinotype operator's work has become similar to that of a typist. It is realized that women make the  best typists eo they have been admi?tad to the printing industry, hut only ag typists, Linotyping work with  its higher remuneration, continues to Le a male preserve.
(32,17) The new prospects offered by mechanization with thefr attendant reduction of physical effort are  also used to discriminate aguinst women. Statistical studies of the European Common Market countries  reveal how women are given the worst pald jobs even when they are the most physically exhausting. For  this reason we seck something more than a mere feminine contribution to a society bullt on a clgarly
248   masculine model, We want to make an immense contribution, that of spiritual forces which will give  society a new dimension.
(32.18) Women have always known how to fight for what they consider to be just, The chronicles of our  countries’ independence tell a thousand and one tales of heroism for, as Mart sald, in the presence of  American women one can, without fear, speak of freedom, With emotlon I see, in my mind's eye, ‘fore-  shadowing International Women's Year, Juana de Mena, the Paraguayan who dressed in all her finery to  mark the death of a worthy man who sacrificed himself for his country; the Colombian Manuela Beltrén  who was the first to tear down the edict imposing oppressive taxes and bring out twenty thousand men to  fight against tyranny; the Venezuelan Luisa Câceren de Arismendi who placed love for her country above  maternal and wifely devotion; and those others, innumerable and unknown, who silently sacrificed thelr  tears and their lives to the great American homeland, i  {32.19) As a stable and cohesive force of society, women are the Indispensable bulwark in the defence of  human rights, By Instinct they incline towards the maintenance of justice and through the different forms  of action that, like communicating vessels, exercige a reciprocal influence, each socially active woman  will contribute to the happiness of the peoples and harmony among the nations. We shall thus add a new  dimension to Internatiui.a! relat{rns since it 1s only In time of peace that women discover their true selves  and flourish, Euripides long since fully uriderstood woman's instinctive reaction to destruction and war,  of which she is the first victim, How could this be otherwlse when her biological function is to give life?
(32.20) 1 should not like, by what I have sald, to convey the erroneous {d¢a that feminism seeks the peace  of servitude. Charity begins at home and justice as well. We thus refuse to remain in the twilight of  oblivion and segregation, for no peace is worthy of the name if it does not include the opportunity for all  human beings to achffve complete fulfilment.
(32.21) In Colombia women thirst for knowledge and over the last thirty years, as 13 the cage in other  countries, they have been entering colleges and universities in their thousands, It {s, however, in the  administration of justice, the sector least receptive to cliange, that their participation has been the most  noteworthy, ranging from modest courtrooms to the highest tribunals, such is the devotion, capacity and  integrity that they have shown, For some time now Colombian women have been taxing part in every facet  of national life: they have played an important rôle in the great events that form the landmarks of con-  temporary history. And now, after the rentarkable vote that was decisive In the election of the liberal  candidate, President Lopez Michelsen has called upon women to serve in every sector of public adminis-  tration, including the highest posts.
(32.22) The presence of women, which, with respect to Colombia, I am proud to record, is not veflected  in the higher administrative posts in the international organizations. And Unesco, unfortunately, is no  exception to this rule, The statistics that are quoted to us as a demonstration of adequate feminine repre-  sentation are based on the large numbers of women who continue to perform thos: secondary tasks that  facilitate men's success.
(32.23) The General Assembly has asked us to redouble our efforts in order to #nsure, during the Inter-  national Year, adequate representation of women in higher administrative poste In the United Nations family,  on the principle that actions speak louder than words. It may be recalled that this process began some  time ago with the adoption by the Commission on the Status of Women in 1970 of à resolution, that I had  the satisfaction of submitting on behalf of Colombia. This was the point of departure and although four  years have passed, very little has been achieved.
(32.24) Before the International Women's Year ends, we women would like to zee the Secretariat of the  United Nations - which at times appears to be a bastion of persistent discrimination - to cede to the  demands of justi¢e and the real Interests of mankind, If the United Nations has been the centre of an  unremitting fight against the major scourges that our civilization has inherited, why should ft not put its  own house In order with regard to the odious discrimination for reasons of rex? Unesco, which has  achieved so much success in the long fight against racism end discrimination for 1casons of creed, is  now under the guldance of Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, We know his qualities and we know what his ideas  are concerning the rôle of women, We are sure that the Organization will take up the torch that it should  bear fn the campaign against sex discrimination.
(32.25) The resolution that my delegation has the honour of sponsoring reeks, during the 1975-1976  biennium, to benefit women particularly, We rely on the fnherent flexibility of the programme to allow  the organization of large numbers of seminars, symposia and special courses, the granting of fellowships,  and the holding of regional meetings in connexion with women or attended mainly by women. We hope that  during this biennium Unesco will launch women's educational programmes and will act as a co-ordinating  centre for the training of women, We hope to see preference given, fn its publications, to studies and  subjects dealing with or wrillen by women, We should like a number of Unesco Courier issues to réllect  the many matters of concern with regard to the future of women in relation o 's élety, Unesco has remained  on the sidelines of the feminist movement, its many publications not having done justice to our hopes and  preoccupations, despite the fact that these constitute one of the main axes around which the world of the  twenty-first century 1s beginning to revolve.
(32.26) The task of the International Year te Immense and {ts accomplishment will demonstrate that every  woman, hitherto marginalized, now has à motivation and a future. It will also arouse in every nation the  desire to harness ss soon as possible this iminense source of energy that has been allowed to go to waste,  Who will want to lag behind in tapping this immense reservoir of Intelligence and dedication? 1 listened,  thus, with satisfaction to the Libyan Minister of Education when, in the general debate, he spoke to us of  the revolution that is stirring the women of his country; with pride 1 learned that so young a nation as  Zaire has been able to remove those obstacles and change the structures that in our old societies hamper  the complete integration of women, States that are the last to enter the community of nations are cften  the firat to show us tomorrow's way forward and I take this as a sign that, to paraphrase the scriptures,  the equality which the civilizations of the past rejected will become the head of the corner of the new  society.
35 (32.27) Nineteen seventy-five constitutes a great opportunity for wornen. We believe that It will erystallize  thelr age-old aspirations, We want Unesco to contribute to this with the whole of its {magination and  experience. The lofty purposes established in its Constitution will be achieved only when all women  throughout the world participate in the construction of that society, entirely new in conception, whose  horizons are so wide that they merge ultimately with those of the future of the human race. Thank you,  Madam President.
33. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Colombia, and I give the floor to the delegate of Norway.
34.1 Mrs, UDJUS (Norway):  Madam President, I am speaking on behalf of Denmark, Iceland, Finland, Sweden and Norway.  Improvement of the status of women has been Included among the objectives for Unesco's long-  term programme as expressed in document 18 C/4. This is a clear indication that the present  status of women {s a matter of concern to the majority of Unesco's Member States.
34,2 The fact that the subject has also been included - on the initiative of the United States - as  a special item for discussion in plenary at this General Conference has been welcomed by our  delegations, We would, however, have preferred a different wording, more clearly reflecling  that the matter Is of concern to, and involves, men as well as women. And I express the vish  that we will not only have women speakers in this debate. Even if we must accept that the present  wording is due to the fact that 1975 became "International Women's Year" and not "Equality Year"  and that the special United Nations Commission is a commission "on the status of women", the  General Conference {s free to determine the content it wishes the item to include.
34.3 We have studied with interest the background document prepared by the United States  National Commission as well as the draft resolution sponsored by a number of Member States  from different parts of the world (18 C/PLEN/DR, 4 Rev. 2). The Nordi: delegations fully share  the concern of the sponsors as to the results of recent research, revealing that in many ¢ases  modernization programraes in developing countries tend to worsen rather than improve the status  of girls and women; we nlso share the belief that "no effort to integrate women into development  can succead by isolating women's concerns from other programmes", and that a unified inter-  disciplinary approach is required.
34.4 In the operative pzragraphs of the draft resolution we particularly endorse the points which  suggest concrete action, like point (c) where the Director-General îs invited to "report the results  of Unesco's participation in International Women's Year to the nineteenth session of the General  Conference and to accompany that report with new programme proposals for subsequent biennia;".
34.5 The background paper provides more detailed suggestions for short-term and long-term  Unesco action than has teen included in the draft resolution. Thus we find it important that Unesco  should cause already existing information and research on women's réles to be assembled and  presented without waiting for the completion of more exhaustive research or studies, It is true  that further research is called for, but sufficient material is undoubtedly available to spur Member  States to take action, We are aware, of course, that this is no new tesk for Unesco, but Inter-  national Women's Year provides an excellent opportunity for an intensification of efforts.
34.6 As already expressed in the general policy debate by the Norwegian Deputy Minister of  Education, it fs to be hcped that International Women's Year will be utilized - in Unesco as in the  Member States - to accentuate women's accomplishments in soclety rather than the fact that women  have consistently been kept away from certain positions. This would, as our Minister expressed  it, add dignity to the struggle for equality In the same way as the labour movement gained dignity  by an awareness of ite ¢wn worth, and it would be a better platform for achievements In new fields,  The little booklet on "Women and the United Nations" prepared by Unesco and the International  Women's Counell is a päpular example of such illustrative material which could have an impact on  publié opinion. This is why point (m) also seems important to us.
34.7 While we are In agreement with the general spirit of the United States proposals and the back-  ground paper, we do fel that something is lacking, something which ought to have been there,  First of all, we would Like to stress that Unesco's activities should be primarily directed towards  underprivileged groups of women. If this {8 not pointed out we are afraid that many of the propo-  sals put forward in document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 4 Rev, 2 might tend only to sirengihen the status  of those women who are elready relatively privileged.
34,8 It seems to us indisputable, Madam President, that we will not obtain a better status for  women, if they have no possibilities to utilize in practical life what they have learned. Thus,  while endorsing point (b) in the revised draft resolution, we would like to point out that all educa-  tional achiovements will affest social policy, employment policy, ete, In this context special  measures for women may have to be taken.
34,9 We would also like to point out that even where rights and access to education and to occupa-  tion have been obtained, there are still many obstacles to woman's full participation, ‘The main  obstacle fe, of course, the traditional sex rôle pattern, a pattern which is only changing at a very  slow pace in my country as well as in others, ot least as far as the family le concerned, A pre.
250   condition for equality of the sexes must be, however, that this pattern be changed for both sexes 35  so that duties both inside And outside the home are shared between husband and wife, between  boys and girls, men and women. We therefore fully endorse point (j) in the proposed resolution.  Haviag accepted the fact that a change must come about for both men and women we would, however,  have liked to see this reflected in other paragraphs too.
34,10 When, for instance, {t is proposed to strengthen the co-operation with international non-  governmental organizations especially concerned with the problems of women, we would take this  to mean not only women’s organizations, but also trade unions which in our countries are strongly  and actively engaged in the struggle for equality between sexes.
34,11 Madam President, we believe that a change in the sex rôle pattern can only be effebted  through education, through education at all levels from pre-primary to higher and adult éducation.  At the seventeenth session of the General Conferencé the Norwegian delegation informed the Edu-  cation Commission and the Secretariat of a recently published report on "Sex rôles and education”,  At the present General Confererice the Nordic countries submitted a draft resolution proposing  an amendment of resolution'1, 14 concerning equality of educational opportunity. The draft reso-  lution suggested that equality between the sexes should be promoted through education, It was a  very brief and innocuous-looking proposal, which was adopted unanimously. Nevertheless, we  consider it to be important as it leaves scope for new thinking in the current programme,
34.12 The Nordié report just referred to was recently discussed by the Nordic Council of Minis-  ters, and their discussion led to the adoption of a joint declaration. It was our intention to distri-  bute a translation to all delegations, but because of the postal strike, it has unfortunately not  avrived (but copies may be obtained by approaching the Nordic delégations' office). The decldra-  tion refers to International Women's Year, and keywords are: equal rights and duties for women  and men - in the world of work, in the family and in society; free choice of education, vocation  and adult rôle - a choice unrestricted by sex rôle expectations; co-education at all levels and in  all subjects; equality issues to be considered in curricula at all levels; educational and vocational  guidance unrestricted by traditional sex role expectations; examination of existing textbooks and  guidance to authors of new textbooks and producers of teaching materials (May I add to this that  in my country all textbooks to be used in primary and secondary schools are now examined by  the Ministry in order to eliminate all discriminatory matters); equality {ssues to be taken up in  teacher training; and lastly, co-operation with parents, particularly parents with children at pre-  primary level,
34.13 While it is fully acknowledged that educational measures are of limited effect if they are  not accompanied by appropriate social and labour policy measures, education undoubtedly remains  one of the most important factors In promoting equality between the sexes, We hope that this  will be increasingly understood both in Unesco and in the Member States and that International  Women's Year will mark a new milestone in the struggle for equality between men end women -  to the benefit of mankind, Thank you, Madam President.
35. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Norway and I give the floor to the delegate of Australia,
36.1 Miss TURNBULL (Australia):  Thank you, Madam President, for giving me the floor. [ wish also to thank the co-sponsors  of draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 4 Rev, 2 which we have {n front of us and which will help us  to consider the ifem on the agenda concerning the status of women. The Australian Government  is able to give full support to the spirit of draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 4 in its second  revision, despite a request I wish to make later in my intervention for permisslon to put several  amendments,
36,2 The Australian Government acknowledges that discrimination does oxist, on grounds of sex  as well as of race and so on, both at the national and at the international level; and we admit that  there 1s much room for improvement and progress towards the ideals of equality enshrined in  various United Nations declarations and covenants, which are referred to In the preamble of the  draft resolution before us.
36,3 We are aware of the very different soclal situations existing In Unesco Member States, and  for this reason wo commend the co-sponsors of the draft for having concentrated on areas in  which progress can end should be made, rather than on proposing specitic targets to Member  States. We agreo too that progress needs to be made in varlous spheres concurrently. These  spheres are highlighted in the draft; they concern Member States, the Unesco programme and  also the Unesco Secretariat itself. We realize that the changes which are sought in the interest  of basic humen rights require a fashioning and acceptance of new social attitudes which require  not only the acquiescence but the support of men and women throughout the world, and naturally  these changes will not be won overnight, Therefore we endorso the beliefs enunolated in the  preamble of the draft resolution, which highlight the needs for continuing attention to the further.  ing of women's rights not only during International Women's Year but also boyond that year, in  programmes relevant to Unesco's fields of competence and in the consideration given to these  programmes by Member States and by the Unesco Secretarial,
35 36.4 This sald, Madam President, I would wish, with your permission, to propose one or two  amendments to the draft resoluilon In its second revision, I apologize for the fact than an amend-  ment submitted earlier refers to an English text which has now been revised and is therefore  rather difficult to follow. Consequently I would wish to put forward this amandment orally, The  object is not to change the sense of the draft, which we support, but.fo make it a more acceptable  and tidier document, I would invite delegates to have before them 18 C/PLEN/DR. 4 Rev. 2 while  I propose these several amendments.
36.5 Paragraph (n) in the second revision presently reads: "to use Unesco National Commissions  and non-governmental organizations as key agents...", and so on. The Australian delegation  wishes to delete this paragraph and to replace it with the following: "to seek substantial support  from National Commissions and appropriate non-governmental organizations in giving effect to  this resolution”. The Australian delegation believes that this wording more accurately reflects  the relationship existing between the Directqr-General and National Commissions on the one hand,  and between the Director-General and non-governmental organizations concerned with women's  issues on the other, The word "use' which appeared in the original English text is, in our opinion,  ascribing to the Director-General an authority in such relationships which he does not possess,
36.6 Madam President, I corne now to a second proposed amendment which, in the second revision  of 18 C/PLEN/DR. 4, refers to paragraph (q) on the last page, The Australian delegation proposes  that the existing paragraph (a) be deleted and be replaced by the following: ''to take note of all  major decisions taken by relevant international conferences and congresses convened during  International Women's Year, including the United Nations International Women's Year Conference  and the International Conference of Women". We propcse this change because we do not consider  it entirely appropriate for the Director-General to be {nvited to implement the decisions of other  organizations, and this is what tends to be suggested in the English text, although it may not be  so in others, We believe that the invitation to take note, and so on, would be more appropriate  to the Director-General’s rôle and to that of Unesco, However, if the Director-General believes  that any of the decisions relevant to the improvement of the status of women and to Unesco's  programme, adopted by such congress and conferences, are suitable, we think that operative  paragraph (ec) of this draft duly allows him to incorporate them into subsequent Unesco programmes.
36.7 Thirdly, the Australian delegation would propose a formal change, merely for the gake  of clarity, Thre delegation proposes that as paragraph (r), the second last paragraph in the second  revision, concerns Member States rather than the Director-General, it would appear more ap-  propriately inserted in this resolution as a new paragraph (f) under the heading "Invites Member  States'' on the second page.
36.8 Madam President, the Australfan delegation proposes these amendments merely for the  sake of clarity and accuracy In the English langage text. We fully support the proposals contained  in draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 4 in its second revision, and we hope that the co-sponsors  of the draft will be prepared to accept the amendments I have suggested. If so, the Australian  delegation would wish to co-sponsor the draft resolution as amended and to commend it to the  General Conference. I thank you.
37. The PRESIDENT: :
1 thank the delegate of Australia, and I give the floor to the delegate of Afghanistan
38,1 Miss LUDIN (Afghanistan):  Thank you, Madam President, My delegation has sponsored the draft resolution in document
18 C/PLEN/DR, 4 Rev. 2 because of our deep concern over the fact than any international action  afmed at the improvement of the status of women, recognition of and increase in their rôle in  development should be as effective as possible.
38,2 The draft resolution goes into detail {n defining areas where such action should be concen-  trated 50 as to encourage improvement of the status of women, and preceding speakers have dealt  with its various aspecte, So, Madam President, ! shall confine myself to delfneating briefly the  areas of proposed action which most concern Afghanistan, .
38,3 Afghanistan, Madam President, as a developing country, has to make the maximum use not  only of its natural resources, but of {ts human resources as well if it is to attain its developmental  objectives, Every section of its population, may ft be men or women, may they represent the  traditional or modern sectors of society, have to be integrated in the developmental process of  the country.
38. 4 My Government, Madam President, is fully aware of its responsibilities towards the women  of Afghanistan, Indeed, Madam President, a declared aim of my Government fs to secure equal  opportunities in the spheres of economlo, social, political and cultural life of the country. This is  no easy task, for much of our society remains traditional and unreceptive to such idena as the  equality of meh and women: However, Madem President, my Government has implemented  various resolutions adopted by the United Nations Assembly and other agencies belonging to the  United Natlone family and undertaken several projecte which are aimed at encouraging an aware.  ness in both men znd women of the important contribution to be made by women in the developmental  process of the country. It is in the implementation of these projects that we would seek the co-  operation of the United Nations family, more especially Unesco.
38.5 Our activities, Madam President, should not be confined only to the commemoration of 35  International Women's Year or to the celebration of guch days as Women's Day, but should be  aimed at taking effective and conorete steps towards the recognition by nations of the needs of  women #8 well as a recognition by women themselves of their ever-increasing, important rôle  in national and international developments, Our activities should be planned on a long-term basis  so as to meet the continued and differing needs both of women and of the societies they are to  serve.
38,6 It is thus my delegation's sincere hope, Madam President, that the draft resolutions sub-  mitted will bé unanimously edopted by this assembly, for it is another step towards the attainment  of the objectives of the Declaration on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women. Finally,  Madam President, my delegation also supports the amendments presented by the distinguiehed  delegate of Australia, Thank you. .
39, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Afghanistan, and I give the floor to the delegate of Ethiopia.
40.1 Mrs. TEKEA ZERE (Ethiopia):  Madam President, the Ethiopian delegation is very pleased to assoziate itself with draft reso-  lution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 4 Rev, 2 which primarily aims at the promotion of equality between men  and women and the integration of women in the total development effort. The very fact that the  United Nations has proclaimed 1975 as International Women's Year, in this period of the Second  Development Decade, ls a clear manifestation of the important rôle that could and should be played  by women in the process of development,
40.2 Women, Madam President, not only constitute a good half of the human race, but they are  the pillars of the family in every society. The much-desired social, economic and cultural devel-  opment of the world's societies cannot effectively be brought about without proper deployment  of the potentials of women. It is therefore the belief of my delegation that International Women's  Year will provide us with an auspicious occasion to assess and evaluate the status of women and,  on the basis of the results obtained, to recommend the imperative measures that will ensure  equality between men and women and enhance the full integration of women in ali sectors of national  and international life.
40,3 Madam President, in the view of my delegation, the basic principle of development is not  so much material Input for various activities as sowing the seed of the willingness to changé. A  key factor 1s the creation of conditions for changing the attitude and thinking of soclety, for em-  barking on the road to development belonging primarily to women - women as mothers and women  as wives. We should not, therefore, talk as if the rôle of woman in development takes place only  after they have had a formal university education: it could begin with simple rural women that  have been given a certain amount of guidance.
40,4 From the various deliberations of this conference, we have learnt that many countfles, in-  cluding my own, are giving priority to programmes through which a larger percentage of the  rural masses can increase their production, improve their living standards, and make good their  contribution to the achievement of national goals and objectives. Consequently, many Member  States expect Unesco to increase its contribution to integrated rural development, In this régard,  the question of rural women merits special attention. Unesco, with its wealth of experience,  should assist Member States In designing programmes that would catér to the urgent needs of  rural women, These programmes should be based on national values aad goals, fn keeping with  the expectations of the community and soctety as a whole.
40,5 Madam President, in a developing country such as Ethiopia, the lille of the rural woman fe  arduous, and one cannot help but admire the manner in which she copes with it, She has à dubl  rôle to play: that of being a mother as well as that of assisting the husband on the farm and other  Income-generating jobs. My delegation draws attention to thia piétire to uhderacore emphatically  the need to improve the status of rural women. On the occasion of International Women's Year,  all efforts should be made to enable rural women to develop a sense of self-identity and to under-  stand that as a wife and mother, through basle education and her own efforts, she can contribute  to improve living standards for all family members. As l indicated earlier in my statement, one  of the primary developmental concerns of Ethlopia at present is to reach the rural masses through  formal and non-formal education designed to improve standards of Mving. Although this effort  encompasses the needs of rural women as well, a national committee has been established to  organize activitfes In connexion with International Women's Year. Shôrt- and long-term pro- +  grammes that would help to bring progress to the area of women's rights and responsibilities will  be designed.
40.6 To achieve these objectives, comprehensive studies related to fhe needs and problems of |  Ethloplan women In both rural and urban areas will be underiaken. hese atudies will focus on  customs, practices and attitudes which fmpede the exercise of the rights of women and which in-  hibit women's contribullon to development. Knowledge based on assessment and evaluation of  women's current potential contribution to the various sectors retatèd to thé country's overall  development plans and programmes will be an essential prerequisite fn formulating programmes  devised to improve the condition of women, and to ensure thelr integration In the overall develop.  mental effort,
35 40.7 Unesco's areas of competence offer greät opportunities for the attainment of the economic,  social and cultural development which developing countries are aspiring to reach, We must,  however, ‘keep In mind that this smbition cannot be effectively and efficlently fulfilled without the  full partioipation of women. The: Ethiopian’delegation notes with satisfaction thé willingness of  this Conferénce fo iriclude respect for the rights of women and the improvement of thelr status  among the priority objectives in the preparation of the Medium-Term Plan for 1977-1982. It is our  view that Unesco should strengthen those programmes from which we expect to ernerge positive  steps to promote the rôle and responsibilities of the woman fn the family and in the community,  At the same time, Unesco should give greatér emphasis and support to activities and programmes  which address themselves to major national concerns and aspirations.
40.8 The need to improve the status of women sd as to promote equal participation in nation-  building has been the subject of much discussion at national and international forums in the past.  Now, the time is right to translate this reflection into action, Where women in rural areas are  concerned, increased efforts should be made to alleviate the heavy burden of their Hves through  the development of appropriate technical knowledge and skills which can be applied to daily life  and work in the home, on the farm and in the community. The experiences gained from Inter-  national Women's Year should thus influence future programmes of Unesco in order to make them  more relevant and applicable,
40.9 Finally, Madam President, the rights of women should be advanced in the context of national  socio-economic development for reasons of expediency, without, however, losing sight of the fact  that such promotion should be undertaken in the light of the inalienable rights of women as human  beings equal in status to men. Permit me, Madam President, to conclude my intervention with  the hope of my delegation that this Conference will give its unreserved support to the draft reso-  lution before us because of its unique importance in opening new avenues that would enable women  increasingly to become partners in development.
41. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Ethiopia and I give the floor to the delegate of the German Democratic  Republic,
42.1 Mme SCHOBER (République démocratique allemande). -  Madame la Présidente, permettez-moi d'abord de vous dire que les membres de la délégation  de 1a RDA se félicitent du fait qu'une femme charmante, qui possède les qualités requises pour une  tâche si délicate, ait été chargée de présider la dix-huitième session de la Conférence générale,
42,2 La décision qu'a prise l'ONU de proclamer une Année internationale de la femme a Été acueil -  lie en RDA ave¢ beaucoup de satisfaction, La délégation de la RDA, coauteur du projet de résolu-  tion 18 C/ÉLEN/DR, 4 révisé, est donc très‘favorable aux nobles objectifs exposés dans cette réso-  lution et se permet d'exprimer sa ferme conviction qué ses objectifs auront l'approbation et l'appui  de la Conférence générale, Je tiens aussi à souligner que les amendements proposés par la délé-  guée de l'Australie nous paraissent, quant au fond, très judicieux, Obtenir que la femme soit con-  sidérée, en droit, comme l'égale de l'homme est une tâche des plus nobles, qui est d'ailleurs  directement liée à la réalisation des droits fondamentaux de l'être humain, tels le droit à l'épa-  nouissement de la personnalité, le droit au travail et à l'éducation ou le droit à l'élimination de la  discrimination sous toutes ses formes, La discrimination à l'encontre des femmes n'eet ni un  problème social à part ni l'un des aspects de la lutte des sexes, Elle n'est qu'une forme spéci-  fique de l'exploitation de l'homme par l'homme dans des conditions sociales déterminées. Aussi  la participation active des femmes a la lutte de libération nationale et sociale s'accentue-t-elle  partout dans le monde, surtout dans les pays en vole de développement. La véritable égalité des  femmes, dans tous les domaines, ne peut en effet, c'eat notre conviction, ttre réalisée que moyen-  nant un changement fondamental de la base soélo-Économique. Ainsi que Fourrier l'a, l'un des  premiers, fait ressortir, le degré d'émancipation de la femme dans une société donnée est un in-  dice trréfutable pormettant de mesurer le degré d'émancipation général ; autrement dit, pour re-  prendre l'expression du grand poète français Aragon : ‘La femme c'est l'avenir de l'homme",
42.3 Il ne suffit pas d'assurer Îlégalité de la femme sur le plan juridique ; cé qui importe, c'est  surtout d'en faire une réalité vivante.
42.4 Qu'il me soit permis, Madame la Présidente, d'exposer à titre d'information quelques faits  qui illustrent la réalisation de jure et de facto de l'égalité de la femme en RDA, La condition pri-  mordiéle de là partlélpation des Femmes À la vie publique est leur formation scolaire ét profes-  slonnelle, IL y a longtemps que la RDA ‘assure l'égalité d'accès des garçons et des jeunes filles à  ta formation scolaire, conformément A la recommandation du Conseil économique et social en date  du 14 décembre 1960. A la sortie d'un enoeignement secondaire qui s'étend sur dix ans, les jeunes  filles - à quelques exceptions près - suivent des cours de formation professionnelle ou fréquentent  une École technique ou spéciale ou une université. Parmi les apprentis, la proportion des jeunes  filles est dé 46 %. Solxante-aix pour cent des paysannes ont une qualification professionnelle ;
30 % des femmes travaillant dana l'industrie ont un certificat d'aptitude profesaionnellé (et ce der-  nier chiffre monte A plus de 70 % pour la jeune génération). )
42,5 Pendant l'année scolaire 1972-1973, l'élément féminin représentait 53, 5 % des effectifs des  écoles techniques et épéciales ot 45,2 % des effectifs des universités. En RDA, toute jeune fille
254   ayant terminé ga formation professionnelle ou ses études est assurée de trouver un emploi corres- 35  pondant à sa qualification, : …
42,6 Dans la vie professionnelle et publique, les femmes et les jeunes filles ont les mémes chan.  ces que les hommes, Parmi les députés‘et autres représentants êlus par le peuplé pour siéger,  par exemple, dans les assemblées communales ou à la Chambre du peuple, il y a 30 % de femmes,  Un juge sur trois est une femme - et il faut savoir que les juges en RDA sont élus par des Institi-  tions opérant à tous les niveaux, depuis le Conseil municipal jusqu'à la Chambre du peuple. Les  femmes sont largement représentées non seulement dans le corps enseignant - que ce soit dans  l'enseignement primaire, secondaire, spécial ou supérieur - mals aussi dans l'industrie et l'agri-  culture, où elles occupent des postes auxquels sont attachées de hautes responsabilités, La loi  oblige les dirigeants de toutes les institutions et entreprises à promouvoir, dans leurs domaines  respectifs, la formation et le perfectionnement professionnel des femmes, et elle les oblige aussi «  À rendre publiquement compte, chaque année, de ce qu'ils auront fait à cet égard,
42.7 Afin de permettre aux femmes de faire face A leurs obligations professionnelles aussi bien  que familiales ou maternelles, la RDA a pris des mesures légales et a créé tout un système de  crèches, de jardins d'enfants, d'écoles matornelles et de garderies, La famille en tant que noyau  de la société jouit de la protection particulière de l'Etat socialiste. Durant les deux dernières  années, tout un système de lois a Été adopté pour améliorer encore la situation des jeunes ména-  ges, auxquels est accordée une aide financière substantielle destinée A leur permettre de subvenir  À leurs frais d'installation, de logement, etc. Le nouveau code de la famille adopté en 1966 garan-  tit à la femme une complète égalité de droits pour tout ce qui a trait à l'union conjugale ; ce code  lui confère, par exemple, le droit de participer à l'éducation des enfants, le droit de choisir le  nom de famille au moment où se fait le mariage, le droit de propiétô, le droit de divorce, etc,  Une vaste action d'information, la gratuité des moyens anticonceptionnels et le droit à l'interrup-  tion de la grossesse (dont les frais sont pris en charge par l'Etat) offrent à la femme - et en même  temps au couple - la possibilité réelle de décider librement de la planification familiale, Le chan-  gement le plug important qui soit intervenu est cependant celui qui se traduit par la possibilité de  choisir en toute liberté le partenaire sans se laisser influencer par des tabous, sans tenir néces-  sairement compte de la situation de fortune ou de la position sociale, bref en se fondant uniquement  sur les rapports humains et sur la sympathie mutuelle. Nous savons cependant, d'après l'expé-  rience acquise au cours de l'édification socialiste, que ce nouveau type de rapports entre homme  et femme ne saurait s'établir automatiquement et grâce aux scules lois. Il ne suffit pas de trans-  former les bases soclo-économiques ou d'établir de nouvelles bases juridiques ; ce qui importe  c'est de faire disparaître les traditions périmées et de chasser leg stéréotypes des esprits. Aussi  la contribution que la littérature, l'art, la presse, la radio et la télévision peuvent apporter à la  diffusion des idées nouvelles est-elle à cet égard d'une importance décisive.
42.8 I nous paraît que l'une des plus nobles tâches auxquelles puisse se livrer l'Unesco est de  faire tous ses efforts pour que les mass media cessent de diffuser des productions malsaines qui,  fabriquées uniquement pour servir certaines idéologies ou satisfaire le goût du gain, constituent  un fnsulte à la dignité de la femme et à tout sentiment humain élémentaire, du fait qu'elles met-  tent A l'honneur la brutalité et 1a perversité, Le gouvernement de la RDA, pour sa part, a prévu,  dans le cadre de l'Année internationale de la femme, de multiples manifestations culturelles rela-  tives à l'égalité de l'homme et de la femme, ainsi que toute une série d'autres activités qui s'ins-  pirent de la résolution des Nations Unies, De nombreuses organisations non gouvernementales et,  en particulier, la Fédération internationale démocratique des femmes, soutiennent ces actions et,  spécialement, la préparation du Congrès mondial des femmes qui se tiendra en octobre 1975. Nous  sommes convaincus que l'Unesco - agissant sur la base du projet de résolution - prétera elle aussi  un concours efficace à l'organisation de ce congrès ainsi qu'à celle de la conférence des femmes  qui doit se réunir A Bogota, Il nous paraftrait opportun d'inclure dans les études sociales sur la  condition de la femme qui figurent au programme pour les deux années à venir l'étude des réalisa-  tions des pays socialistes dans le domaine de l'égalité de droits de la femme,
42,9 Madame la Présidente, la délégation de la RDA tient à dire en conclusion que la Commission  gouvernementale chargée de préparer dans notre Etat l'organisation de l'Année internationale de ia  femme fera tout son possible pour contribuer au succès universel des nobles idéaux qui inspirent  cette Année internationale, Nous sommes certains que nous servirons ainsi les intérèts de mil-  lions de femmes dans le mondo entier et que nous aiderons au succès dé leur lutte pour le paix, la  démocrate et le progrès social. Je vous remercie,
43, The PRESIDENT:
1 thank (he delegate of the German Democratic Republic and I give the floor to'the delegate  of Poland.
44,1 Mme KRASSOWSKA (Pologne). - , Lo .  Madame la Présidente, on no saurait accueillir autrement qu'avec une profondo satisfaction la  participation de l'Unesco à l'Année internationale de la femmo proclamée par l'Assemblée générale  des Nations Unies, Dans tous les pays socialistes d'importants préparatifa ont êté amorcés ex vue  de sa célébration, En Pologne, un comité d'honneur, présidé par le Premier ministre, a été ins-  titué par le Conseil des ministres do concert aveo le Consell natlonal des femmes polonalses. le.  gouvernement a adopté un large programme d'activités pour l'Année internationale de la femme,
38 44.2 Profitant de l'occasion qui nous est offerte par l'Année internationale de la femme i} nous-  semble utile de réfléchir sur l'ensemble des programmes de l'Unesco consacrés à la condition de  la femme, à savoir:  - x égalité des chaiges des fémines et des ‘hommes dans la vie;  - l'intégration des femmmes au processus du développement socio-économique et la stimulation  de leur activité en faveur du renforcement de la paix et pour la lutte contre le colonialisme, le  néo-colonialisme et l'epartheid;  - l'accès des femmes et des jeunes filles à l'éducation À tous les niveaux, à l'enseignement  technique, professionnel et universitaire;  - la corrélation entre leur instruction et l'emploi ainsi que l'élargissement des possibilités  d'exercer différentes professions.
44.3 Nous apprécions hautement l'apport de l'Unesco à la solution de tous ces problèmes, La po-  sition de la femme doit etre une question essentielle pour tous les hommes et pour toutes les fem-  mes, pour la société entière, pour chaque pays, chaque gouvernement, C'est ainsi que cela se  passe chez nous en Pologne et dans d'autres pays socialistes, Il ne peut y avoir de doute que la  situation’de là femine dans la société constitue, comme on l'a déjà souligné, un des principaux  indices du degré de progrès et de démocratisation de cette société, Il est évident qu'il existe en-  core dans le monde actuel différentes formes de discrimination à l'encontre des fenimes. Nous  voudrions féliciter l'Unesco pour la part croissante qu'élle prend à la lutte contre toute forme de  discrimination et particulièrement à la création de chances égales pour l'accès dés' jeunes filles  et des femmes à l'éducation ce chaque niveau, Les progrès obtenus dans la solution de ces pro-  blèmes varient d'un pays à l’autre et sont, dans une > large mecure, déterminés par la structure  socio- -economigiie du pays.
44.4 A la suite des transform: tions soclo- économiques intervenues au cours'de ces trente der-  nières années; en Pôlogne, la position dé 1a femme s'est trôuvée radicalement modifiée. ‘Depuis  longtemps, les buts de l'Année internationale’de la femme sont réalisés avec un plein succès par  notré pays et par tous les pays socialistes, Aucune réstriction rie limite l'accès de la femme à  l'éducation, aux études, à l'exerèice de différentes proféssions, à la détention de charges publiques  et sociales, La contributién des femmes polonaises à la libération nationale, au développement  socio- économique du pays, est immense,
44, 5 La tâche principale ti se pose chez nous actuellement à l'échelon r national, c'est d'offrir à  la femme des conditions da jéur en jour plus'favorables à son épanouissement intelleétuel et cultu-  rel, à sa participation plus active encore à la’vie de son pays, à un meilleur accomplissement de  ses tâches éducatives dans la famille - et cela grâce à une plus grande étendue et à un niveau plus  élev&'des prestations sociales de la protection de l'enfant et des services publics. Des décisions  très importantes ont êté prises dans ce domaine au cours des dérnières années par notre gouver-  nement. -
44.6 Madame la Présidente, c'est précisément en raison des divergences existant entre la situa-  tion de la femme et le degré de son intégration à la sôciété que les échanges d'expériences et une  large coopération de l'Unesco avéo les organisations inteimationales non gouvérnementales'et na-  tionales des femmes ont une telle importance, Parmi ces organisations, je voudrais mentionner  le rôle dé la Fédération mondiale démocratique des femmes qui englobe 117 organisations de 101  pays. L'Unésco peut jouer, dans le cadre de ses compêtencès, un rôle marquant, et l'Année inter-  nationale de 1a femme devient une excellente occasion d'approfondir les échanges d'expériences,  de renforder les efforts de l'Unesco et des pays membres pour l'amélioration de la condition de la  femme, pour l'élimination de toutes les'formies de discrimination, Je pense que l'Unesco peut fa-  ciliter la mise en oeuvre des principales décisions prises par les organisations internationales non  gouvernementales au cours de l'Année internationale de la femme, et tout particulièrement la con-  vocation du Congrès mondial en octobre 1975.
44,7 J'ai défà souligné l'impértancé de la problématique relative à la condition de 1a femme abor-  déé par notré Organisation. Il arrive toutefois que ces questions se trouvent dispersées dans dif-  férentes sections du chapitre de l'éducation, des sciences sociales, de l'information et des pro-  grammes intersectoriels coricérnant les droits de l'homme et la paix ou là population. Il semble  que l'Année internationale de la femme est une excellente occasion de lier plus étroitement entre  eux ces projets dispersés, d'éliminer les doubles emplois. Cela permettrait aux Etats membres  ainsi qu'au Secrétariat lui-même de se faire une idée plus nette de la contribution que l'Unesco  doit apporter à la solution des problèmes fondamentaux relatifs à la condition de la femme et favo-  riserait un redoublement des efforts dans ce domaine, ,
44,8 Une remarque encore, L'Unesco a abordé certains problèmes de la famille, épars, ceux-1a  aussi dans différents secteurs, ce qui rendra plus difficile l'évaluation'des principales orientations  des objectifs proposés, Si j'aborde cette question, c'est que nous considérons le probléme de la  famille comme étant un problème soctal de la plus haute importance, Il est indispensable que  l'Unesco apporte A 1a famille une plus ample assistance dans son activité éducatrice, Je voudrais  rappèler ici que, dans 14 cadre dé l'Année internationale dé l'éducation, 1l y a eu en Pologne un  symposium {nfernsiional consaorb'auirôle éducateur de la famille, Je pense que les résultats de  co séminaire, publiés avec l'aide de l'Unesco, pourraient ttre mis A profit à l'occasion de l'Année  internationale de la femme.
44,9: 11 semble qu'il serait profitable que 1'Unesco envisage prochainement la‘problématiqué com's 35  plexe de la famille et avant tout ges fonctions éducatives - l'éducation de la jeunesse et dés enfants,  qui doivent être sains moralement et physiquement, la place de la famille dans la société, sa place  dans le système des autres Institutions de l'éducation. 001 >" ne
44,10 Madame la Présidente, nous avons dévant nous une résolution commune qui, élaborée sur  la base d'une résolution des pays socialistes et d'une résolution des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, est  présentée à la Conférence générale par 25 pays de toutes les régions géographiques et met en évi-  dence le rôle important de la problématique de la céndition de la femme, Cette résolution contient  aussi bien des'principes généraux que des propositions concrètes touchant la participation de  l'Unesco à l'Année internationale de la femme, - Elle s'adressé également à tous les pays membres,  les invitant à participer activement à la réalisation'des tâclies de l'Année internationale dé la  femme, Ma délégation, en tant que coauteur de ladite résolution, souhaite que celle-¢f soit unani-  mement acceptée par la Conférence généralé avec les amendement proposés par la délégation de  l'Australie. ‘ -
44,11 Je tiens à vous assurer que la Pologne contribuera largement A l'Année internationale de la  femme et A la mise en oeuvre des programmes de l'Unesco portant sur la condition de la femme  dans le monde moderne, mettant pour cela à profit sa propre expérience et celle qu'elle a acquise  grâce à de multiples échanges avec l'étranger dans ce domaine. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
45. The PRESIDENT;  I thank the delegate of Poland and I give the floor to the delegate of the Philippines,
46.1 Mrs. ALDABA-LIM (Philippines): ; |  Thank you, Madam President, Coming from a country where women are, by tradition, held  in high esteem,- a country where women are the full and equal partners of men in law and in  practice, it Is a source of great pleasure for the Philippine delegation to give {ts strong support  to the draft resolution in document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 4 Rev.2, of which we are privileged tobe a  sponsor, ‘ .
46.2 In supporting this draft resolution, Madam President, we sincerely hope that Unesco will  actively pursue programmes within its competence that will create opportunities everywhere for  fully integrating women into the development process, as an indispensable and integral dimension  in the unified interdisciplinary approach to development,
46.3 The Philippine delegation, Madam J’resident, would like to highlight the need to involve the  rural women in this connexion, In many countries of the world today, the question of the s‘etus  of women tends to be confined to the élite groups. The fight being waged on behalf of women for  equality, de jure and de facto is led by and, fn many instances, for women in urban areas, women  who are relatively privileged and already participating in the process of development, There is  need for local leadership, need for a community development approach and full participation by  rural women, even if they are illiterate, in the decision-making processes at the local level. In  this context, the mobilization of both rural men and women with a view to transforming the rural  economy of developing countries deserves a high priority. .
46.4 The need for mobilizing action fn favour of women in the lower economic levels is the highest  priority target of programmes of economic development and of women's righ,e.. There is no single  solution to the problems facing women. Yes, general éducation, vocational training, legal pro-  tection and meaningful employment reinforce each other and together will create the conditions  necessary for true female liberation and development, But development for women means develop-  ment for every woman, What Le lacking in many countries at the present time is precisely an  appreciation by women themselves, especially. by rural women, of their particular share in and  contribution to the develo, ment effort,
46.5 With respect to the mobilization of public opinion for integrating women into overall develop-  ment goals, there can be no effective mobilization of public opinion until women first ralge the  consciousness of women and mobilize their own opinions. Sad to say, this is lacking in many coun-  tries today. .
46.6 Female leadership and political activism are needed for a variety of developmental fields |  such as education, employment, legal reforms in each country, The utilization of the mass média  in information and education programmes outside the school is of the utmost importance, as  large numbers of women in some of the developing countries have only very short exposure to the  school system, Unesco could prepare basic programmatic outlines and lend techn{oxl and financial  assistance, if possible, to enable national groups to develop and adapt material for local  programming.  FI
46, 7 ‘Finally, Madam President, just a few words on the rôle of communication In the in’ eresat of  promoting equality for women, In commemoration of International Women's Year in 1975 Unerco.  might devote a publication to women; highlighting aspects of Unesco work of special interest to  women. ‘
35 45,8 The problem of the communications gap which tends to arise between Unesco and the average  individual in any country is due fn large part to the kind of language used in discussion of items  in the relevant documents, Uncsco National Commissions and non-governmental organizations  could both play a crucial rôle in bridging that gap, They could aleo play an invaluable part in  keeping contact with research and educational institutions, universities and other non-governmental  organizations and voluntary groups, and could tranemit to them Unesco documents and resolutione  relevant to their work.
46,9 The main emphasis in the information and mobilization of public opinion, which should be  on the national level and on a long-term basis, should be to create completely new attitudes and  to change social structures, The role of education is of the utmost importance in raising actively  committed citicens, and the school system itself should give equal opportunity to boys and girls,  rich and poor, rural and urban children, The curriculum should therefore be the same for boys  and girls and should have a global orientation to make the children understand the interrelationship  of world problems, Thank you very much, Madam President.
47, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of the Philippines, and I give the floor to the delegate of India.
48,1 Miss DASTUR (India):  Madam President, it is amazing that in the year of grace 1974 a resolution like the one in  document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 4 Rev. 2 should come before this august assembly. My delegation is a  sponser of the resolution. Iam sure the distinguished delegates have noted that the sponsors cut  across idcological, racial, religious lines, all of which are usnally divisive factors, It is ae if  the women of the world have united because they have nothing to lose but their chains and subordi-  nation, and all that they desire is not a world to win for themselves, but to share and care for on ,  equal terms with men,
48.2 Unesco is concerned with education, science and culture. None will cuntest thé fact that  woman is the original natural teacher and educator. She is a source of culture. And yet, Madam  President, this body waited for over 25 years before electing you, a distinguished woman, as its  President, This is a glaring example of the justice and fairness which women can expect in a  man-made and man-administered world. That Unesco did not follow its parent body the United  Nations, whose General Assembly by now has had two distinguished women as its Presidents,  reveals how even a world body giving all its energy to improving the lot of people in the world  wears blinkers where women are concerned. Dut it has made ample amends, Madsen President,  by electing you, and I hope this will not be a solitary exception.
48,3 What does our resolution say? We are compelled to remind - at length - the distinguished  delegates of the hopes that remain unfulfilled of treating men and women on a par. All things  being equal, women are generally discriminated against. They often come to be classified with  the handicapped. This body need not be reminded of that. Nothing could be a greater indignity.  That is where we are compelled to call the attention of this assetnbly to this unjust and iniquitous  position,
48.4 My delegation joins the other delegati ns in commending te resolution for a unanimous vote.  After all, what are we asking for? We are asking the Member States for a just and proper place  in the sun, We are requesting the Director-General to use the dignity of his office and the services  of Unesco for this purpose, Our needs are modest, our re guests are modest. We hope, Madam  President, under your wise leadership, that this august assembly will not only accept our request,  but that the delegations on their return home will move t'ieir own governments to implement the  requests made.
48.5 My Government appointed a Committee of Women three years ago to go into the statue -  legal, social, economie and political - vf the Indian woman, and the report is currently being  prepared,
48.6 Madam President, I am beginning to be a little apprehensive, as was the distinguished  delegate of Norway, that only the gentle volce of women delegates is going to be heard and the  distinguished men delegates are going to listen In silence. Perhape the silence is a little too deep  for comfort. One hopes it doos not imply indifference, if not opposition, to the resolution and  what it seeks to do. Can one take it that silence in this instance means consent? None the less,  one still wishes that a more concrete shape will be given to tlds silent acquiescence. Thank you,  Madam President,
49, The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the delegate of India, end I give the floor to the delegate of France.
60.1 Mile CORDIER (France), ~  Merci, Madame la Présidente. La délégation française remercie et félicité 1a Commission  nationale des Etats-Unis d'Amérique pour sa contribution importante à l'étude dupoint 64 de l'ordre  du joué et pour sa présentation du document 18 C/INF. 9, Elle félicite également les auteurs du  projet de résolucion 18 C/PLEN/DR, 4 Rev,, qui a le grand mérite de proposer aux Etats membres
258   et à l'Unesco un programme d'action large et concret ; celui-ci vient heureusement préciser et .  compléter les programmes proposés dans le document 18 C/5 aux chapitres 1, 14 et 5,1, qui nous  ont paru trop minces pour être à la mesure d'une Année internationale de la femme, Nous pensons,  comme il est dit dans le dernièr considérant du projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 4 Rev,, que  les problèmes des femmes ne doivent pas être traités de façon indépendante et que l'intégration  réelle des femmes dans la société ne se fera que dans le cadre d'une conéeption globale et inter-  disciplinaire du développement. 11 faut que l'on cesse de considérer 125 femmes come des êtres  à part,
50.2 Mais il-y a encore beaucoup À faire dans ce domaine, Dans tous les pays, même ceux où il  semble que l'égalité est presque réalisée, il y a tout un contexte social, un ensemble de moeurs  et d'idées reçues qui freinent l'évolution, Chaque pays constitue à ce point de Vue un cas particu-  lier, C'est pourquoi nous apprécions que le projet de résolution à l'étude préconise le recours  aux commissions nationales pour l'Unesco et aux organisations nons gouvernementales, Celles-ci,  agissant sur place, connaissent les problèmes, sont à mème de les apprécier et d'en trouver la  solution, La Commission nationale française pour l'Unesco a d'ailleurs pris la décision, lly a  déjà quelque temps, d'apporter son concours à tout ce qui sera entrepris en France en liaison avec  l'Année internationale de la femme.
50.3 Un point cependant nous préoccupe : lé projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 4 Rev. est une  recommandation générale, et na comporte aucune disposition d'ordré budgétaire. Comment, dans  ces conditions, réaliser tout ce que l'on se propose de faire ? Nous notons cependant que les ques-  tions de financement y sont abordées, d'une part au paragraphe (k), où il est proposé d'allouar une  partie des crédits au Programme de participation aux activités prévues pour l'Année internationale  de la femme, et d'autre part, au paragraphe (0) à propos de l'organisation de réunions. Nous  souhaitons vivement, et nous espérons, qu'-ne certaine plasticité du budget que nous allons voter  permettra de dégager ici ou là des crédits at d'en attribuer le plus possible aux activités proposées  dans le projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 4 Rev,, et cela non seulement pour 1975 mais aussi  pour l'ensemble de l'exercice biennal, Mais il faut voir plus loin encore, et nous avons noté à cet  égard que pour les signataires de ce projet de résolution la mise en oeuvre de l'Année internatio-  nale de la femme n'est qu'un prélude au lancement d'importants programmes à long terme qui se-  ront exécutés dans les années à venir. Tel est également notre espoir, Nous constatons donc  avec la plus grande satisfaction que le Groupe de travail de la Commission V chargé d'examiner le  document 18 C/4 et de proposer des directives concernant l'esquisse de plan à moyen terme a rete-  nu dans son rapport, comme objectif d'une importance particulière, pour le plan à moyen terme et  pour les programmes dc l'Unesco pendant la période 1977-1982, la participation accrue de la femme  au développement économique, social et culturel,
50.4 L'un des événements marquants de cette Année internationale sera la Conférence mondiale  de Bogota en juin 1975, Nous formons l'espoir que l'Unesco et son Secrétariat tiendront à apporter  à cette conférence une contribution technique dans les domaines de leur compétence, Nous appuyons  done le projet de résolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 4 Rev, et les propositions d'amendement présentées  par l'Australie ; nous espérons que cette résolution amendée sera votée à l'unanimité par la con-  férence. Je vous remercie, Madame la Présidente,
51. The PRESIDENT: .  I thank the delegate of France and I give the floor to the delegate of China.
52.1 Mme YEH SHIH-CHUN (République populaire de Chine) (Déclaration faite en chinois, Ver-  sion française établie d'après l'interprétation). -  Madame la Présidente, la délégation chinoise voudrait ajouter quelques mots au débat en cours  sur l'arnélioration du statut de la femme.
52.2 Nous esttmons que les femmes, qui représentent la moitié de l'hunanité, constituent une  force non négligeable. L'émancipation des femmes est une cause commune à toute l'humanité.  Les femmes de nombreux pays luttent longtemps avec persévérance contre la discrimination et  l'oppression dont elles faisaient l'objet, pour être admises à jouer pleinement le rôle qui leur re-  vient dans tous les domaines de la vie et rlans la promotion du progrès de l'humanité. Mais,  aujourd'hui encore, l'émancipation des femmes est icin d'être acquise dans certains pays. Savoir  comment permettre aux femmes de conquérir leur émancipation totale,comment améliorer radica-  lement Jeur statut et comment les amener à comprendre pleinement qu'elles sont maîtresses de  leur propre destin demeure donc une question d'importance primordiale,
52,3 Madame la Présidente, honorables délégués, l'ancienne Chine était un pays semi-féodal ct  semi-colontal, où les femmes, notatnment lorsqu'elles appartenalent aux couches intérieures de  la société, soumises à la manipulation du pouvoir politique, A la domination du clan, du pouvoir  religieux et du pouvoir marital, étatent victimes d'un fmpitoyable asservissement et d'une cruelle  oppression, A cette époque-là, beaucoup de femmes, à l'avant-garde du combat pour l'émastélpa-  tion féminine, ont couragéusemient lutté pour cette cause, D'autres éléments, chargés du travail  fémirin, ont essayé en borne::i leur action aux revendications féministes, de concrétiser les dréfts  de la femme et l'élAvatiôn de son statut ; mals ces efforts n'ont pas abouti aux résultats escomptés,  Les femmes chinsises ont compris, au terme du chemin tortueux qu'elles avaient parcouru, que le  mouvement féministe est partie intégrante du mouvement révolutionnaire dans son ensemble, et
35 que pour réaliser l'émancipation des femmes, il faut d'abord lutter pour l'indépendance nationale  et le socialisme, Aujourd'hui, dans la nouvella Chine socialiste, les femmes jouissent, sur les  plans politique, économique, culturel et social comme dans la vie familiale, de droits égaux à ceux  des hommes, L'ingéniosité et la puissance des femmes ont été libérées d'un joug plusieurs fois  millénaire ; les femmes prennent une part active à la révolution et à l'édification socialistes, jouant  ainsi le rôle de la moitié du ciel grâce au combat dynamique qu'elles mènent sur les fronts indus-  triel, agricole, éducatif, littéraire, artistique, sanitaire, scientifique, etc.
52.4 Notre gouvernement attache une grande importance à la formation et à la sélection des cadres  féminins, Une grand nombre d'ouvrières et de paysannes d'élite sont affectées à des postes de di-  rection de différents niveaux, Dans les organes suprèmes du parti et du gouvernement à l'Ausem-  blée populaire nationale comme dans les organismes locaux des usines et les communes populaires,  de nombreuses femmes assument des fonctions de direction et jouissent du respect de tous, C'est  là un important témoignage de l'émancipation des femmes dans notre pays. Notre gouvernement  a promulgué des lois et pris des mesures pour assurer fine protection spécifique au travail des  femmes, assurer la rémunération égale, à travail égal, des hommes et des femmes ; les cantines,  crèches, jardins d'enfants et autres services destinés à préserver la santé des femmes et des en-  fants se généralisent, La planification des naissances et la prise en charge du travail domestique  À la fois par les femmes et par les hommes sont encouragées pour protéger la santé des femmes  et leur permettre, en les débarassant des lourdes tâches domestiques, de participer à la vie poli-  tique et au travail productif de la société.
52,5 Madame la Présidente, distingués délégués, depuis la Libération, un changement considérable  est intervenu dans le statut de la femme chinoise, Mais nous devons continuer à combattre les pré-  jugés hérités de l'ancierne société, qui mépriseit les femmes, Nous devons élever le niveau cul-  turel des femmes rurales, Il nous reste énormément à faire dans le domaine du travail féminin.  Nous souhaitons que les Etats membres de l'Unesco puissent profiter mutuellement de leur expé-  rience touchant les grands problèmes intéressant la femme afin de contribuer à l'émancipation  des femmes du monde entier.
52,6 Nous constatons avec joie la prise de conscience croissante des femmes du monde entier.  De plus en plus nombreuses sont les femmes qui se joignent à la lutte contre l'impérialisme, le  colonialisme et l'hégémonie, pour les droits et l'émancipation des femmes, Les femmes de nom-  breux pays du Tiers Monde, en particulier, ont mené une lutte inlassable pour conquérir et sauve-  garder l'indépendance de leur pays, préserver sa souveraîneté et développer l'économie et la cul-  ture nationales ; elles ont remporté de nombreux succès et nous les en félicitons vivement,
52.7 Nous constatons en mème temps que les femmes de certains pays continuent de souffrir de  l'agression et de l'oppression impérialistes, colonialistes et racistes. Les deux superpulssances  en particulier intensifient leur course aux armements, développent avec une détermination farouche  leur arsenal nucléaire et se livrent partout à l'agression, à la subversion et aux interventions pour  conquérir l'hégémonie mondiale, menaçant ainsi sérieusement la paix et la sécurité des peuples,  notamment celles des femmes. Si les femmes veulent conquérir leurs droits et leur émancipation,  elles doivent combattre l'impérialisme, le colonialisme, le racisme et 1'hégémonie dans les do-  maines de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture ; la lutte pour l'égalité des droits des hommes  et des femmes ne peut être dissociée de la lutte globale pour la conquête et la sauvegarde de l'indé-  pendance nationale et du progrès social, Nous espérons que l'Unesco pourra, dans les domaines  de sa compétence, contribuer, pour la part qui lui revient, à soutenir cette lutte des femmes du  monde entier. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
53, ‘The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of China, and I give the floor to the delegate of Japan.
54.1 Mrs, MAEDA (Japan):  Madam President, since this fs the first time that I am taking the floor in the plenary meeting  of the General Conference, and as a female member of the Japanese delegation to the eighteenth  session of the General Conference, please allow me to congratulate you on your election to the  high office of President of the General Conference, As the head of the Japanese delegation already  stated in his speech during the genoral debate, Madam President, your election to the Presidency  fs especially opportune because we are about to have the International Women's Year next year,
54.2 Madam President, my delegation welcomes the fact that 1976 has been set aside as Inter-  national Women's Year, and considers this world-wide move for the improvement of the status  . of women as vury significant and important, One male member of the Japanese delegation jokingly  pointed out to me that the fact that there is an International Women's Year, and not an International  Men's Year, lu a discrimination against men. “Well, Madam President, the fact that there has to  be an International Women's Year, and that Year set In 1976, proves that inequalities exist be-  tween men and women, and that women aré the less privileged séx. There may be a difference of  degrée, quality - soclal, economic, legal, Institutional, ete, - and I may be committing the  mistake of generallzthg too much fn saying this, but it seems to me that everywhere In the world,  the status of wemen has yet to be made equal to that of men. My country, Japan, is of course,  no exception,
54.3 The International Women's Year has chosen as one of {ts themes "the integration of women  in development". My delegation thinks it {8 a very important theme of the Year, for after all,  human society is composed equally of men and women, and without the participation of both of  them in various humen activities, a truly harmonious and all-round progress of society cannot  be expected, At the present stage, there still 1s much room left for. wonien to participate in the  economic, social and cultural aspects of life in the community, ‘both at # national and an inter-  national level, directed towards the achievement of a maximum human potential,
54,4 We all know it is not an easy task to realize this. It requires continuous and steady efforts  both on the part of women and of society as a whole, and my delegation sincerely hopes that Inter-  national Women's Year will prove to be a landmark in the history of the promotion of the status  of women, ’
54,5 Turning to Unesco's participation in the celebration and observation of International Women's  Year, my delegation would like to point out the importance of the role Unesco should play in res-  pect of the promotion of the access of women and gir)s to education at all levels,
54,6 Education is the basis that will ensure the dignity of women, the richness of their life and  their participation in various activities in society, namely the integration of women in the life  and development of society on an equal footing with men, In this connexion, my delegation would  like to endorse the projects presented in document 18 C/6, paragraphs 1167 to 1177, and hopes  to see the activities in this regard further intensified. We also endorse the activities directed  towards the promotion of employment opportunities for women carried out in co-operation with
54,7 As regards the draft resolution in document 18 C/PLEN/DR, 4 Rev, 2, of which my delega-  tion has the honour to be one of the sponsors, I would like to thank deeply the other sponsors for  presenting this draft, which my delegation supports wholeheartedly, and I hope it will be approved  by the General Conference. My delegation expectantly awaits a successful report to be presented  at the nineteenth session of the General Conference, on Unesco's participation in International  Women's Year, and particularly, new programme proposals for subsequent blennia which are to  accompany the report, as requested of the Director-General in paragraph (c) of the draft resolu-  tion. Thank you, Madam President,
55. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Japan, and I give the floor to the delegate of the United Kingdom,
56.1 Mr. McCULLOCH (United Kingdom):  Thank you, Madam President. At the fourteenth session of the General Conference, in 1966,  the United Kingdom took a leading rôle in introducing the question of the status of women into  Unesco's programme. Therefore, although we are not a co-sponsor of draft resolution
18 C/PLEN/DR, 4 Rev. 2, we welcome Ît and we will be offering {t our general support. It seems  to us to contain practical measures which identify areas of immediate possibilty, some of which,  we are glad to see, take into account resolutions adopted at the 56th session of the Economic  and Social Council.
58.2 Other speakers have spoken on many paragraphs of this draft resolution and 1 will not speak  further on those, I would like to concentrate on other elements of draft resolution
18 C/PLEN/DR, 4 Rev. 2, namely those recommendations addressed to the Director-General,  paragraphs (c}, (h) and (j), which refer more’specifically to Unesco's future activities in this  area,
56,3 My delegation was glad to find in Chapter 5 of 18 C/5 new proposals for research which we  think may provide a basis for going beyond what has until now been the main basis of Unesco's  work, that is, the promotion of equalily of educational opportunity for girls and women. Never-  theless we believe that in this area further work could be done. I was very interested to hear  what my colleague from Ethiopla sald a few minutes ago and find that bnce again {n thls Conference  I have the pleasure of agreeing with her, In particular, Madam President, We should like to see  further research in non-tôrmal education designed particularly to reach rural women in developing  countries. Ideally, such a project would provide lessons af great value to further similar ventures  elsewhere. It should be designed from the beginning to be potentially replicable and {it should  contain provision for regular monitoring over the whole period of its existence.
56,4 ‘This kind of venture night also be designed to allow comparisons to be made of the worth-  while use of audio-visual arid other communication techniques in the field of non-formal education,  Indeed we would like to see an increased number of country studies which evaluate the alternative  possibilities of formal and non-formal education in 86 far ds they benefit women and particularly  those living in rural areas, Such country studies might well be carried out in consultation with  ILO and FAO. We think, Madam President, that there is a great need for publicized evaluation  of the pllot projects already undertaken under Unesco auspices, to which reference fe made in  paragraph (h) of 18 C/PLEN/DR, 4 Rev.2. We are disappointed that the first évaluation of the  pilot project being undertaken in Trinidad and Tobago will not be suffiélently advanced to be pre-  sented to the First International Conference of Women to be held In Colombia in Jude 1975, And  we would like to emphasize yet again the importance of evaluation of existing and past projects  fn this and other areas.
35 56.5 I would lke also, Madam Président, to draw attention to the document which wilf be coming  forward from Commission V, dealing with the preparation of & medium-term plan for Unesco.  We look forward to the preparation and the presentation at the nineteenth General Conference of  medium-term objectives which will fulfil the directives put forward by Commission V in this  area,
56.6 In the general atmosphere of support for draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR; 4 Rev. 2,  Madam President, I believe we should utter a word or two of caution, particularly as it scems  that we will be embarking on the development of many new programmes which will havé to take  effect over several biennia in the future, The quality and effectiveness gf Unesco's future  programmes will depend first and foremost on hôw well we have formulated and understood the  problems before we start on the projects. Firat of all, as the delegate of Norway has already  pointed out, we cannot treat the status of women in isolation, There is a pressing need for  research and analysis which would better distinguish those problems for whose solutions pro-  grammes specifically devoted to women are essential from those problems where long-term  trends or activities, directed ostensibly to other goals, will also bring about improvements in  the status and human rights enjoyed by girls and women. In this connexion, I should like to em-  phasize the final preambular paragraph of draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 4 Rev. 2, which states:  "Believing that no effort to integrate women into development can succeed by isolating wonien's  concerns from other programmes..." Madam President, my delegation believes that this is a  fundamental basis which we must bear constantly before us.
66.7 A second and somewhat related point is that in some cases, in some countries, unfortunately,  it has become evident that development, especially when it involves the process of urban migration,  may actually be worsening the position of women who, in many traditional societies, have been  accustomed not only to the burdens of fulfilling their primary rôle in economic life, but also to  the respect which goes with that role. It is to the clarification of questions such as these that  Unesco must urgently contribute.
56.8 Madam President, if I have spoken mainly of development, it is because that is righily the  focus of much of Unesco's programme. But we are very well aware that International Women's  Year is also addressed to industrialized countries such as the one I represent here. I believe  that, for us, International Women's Year will mark a shift from what I might call the process  of raising consciousness to the more mundane but ultimately more important task of introducing  changes in many practices and social structures, My Government has recently announced its  intention to propose further measures to bring about equality of pay and opportunity for women in  the United Kingdom. Thank you, Madam President,
57. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of the United Kingdom, and I give the floor to the delegate of the  Netherlands,
58,1 Mr, ELFFERICH (Netherlands):  Thank you, Madam President, in view of the lateness of the hour, I would just like to make  a few short remarks on this highly important subject.
58,2 My delegation is very Interested in the subject under discussion. Our Government considers  the emancipatfon of women as a major issue in {ts governmental programme, The Netherlands  Government established some months ago a national committee for International Women's Year,  comprising men and women of various disciplines and representing large groups of the population,  amongst which women, youth, trade unions, employers, etc. The tasks of this national committee  are, firstly, to co-ordinate all the initiatives which will be taken by private non-governmental  bodies, secondly, to supervise a national manifestation in the centre of the country which will  last three weeks and be accompanied by many small conferences and colloquia, and, thirdly, to  aid projects alming at the promotion of consciousness on the subject, especially at a grass-roots  level, among men and women and, in particular the younger generation.
58,3 All these programmes are intended not only for women, but also for men, The Committee  has at its disposal a staff, with a budget of $80,000 for each of the years 1974 and 1975, and a  budget of $800, 000 for the substance of activities for the year 1975, Being of the opinion that  the activities in 1975 constitute only the beginning of a medium- or even long-term process, my  Government also established an advisory committee of ten experts to scrutinize all legislation  with regard to the equality of men and women, and women's emancipation, and to evaluate the  results of the 1975 Women's Year. As a third task it has to submit, within five years, a report  to the Government on action which should be taken in this field, It {s foreseen that interim reports  will, in the meantime, stimulate the Government to take measures earlier, to get a continuous  action programme on its way.
58.4 Madam President,.turning now to document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 4 Rev, 2, I would like first to  congratulate the sponsors on their Initiative. My delegation has a very positive reaction to this  resolution, but we would like to suggest some slight amendments which might fmprove the text, In  the first paragraph of the preamble, we would prefer to delete the words "United Nations Declara-  tions and Covenants" and replace them by "international instruments". The reason for this is that  the International Labour Organisation, for instance, has also adopted treaties and recommenda-
262   tions in this fleld of action of women's emancipation, and in our view the wording I have just 3s  proposed would include them. Therefore I formally propose this amendment,
58,5 Furthermore, my Government is anxious that all national actlyities ‘should be co-ordinated  with the prograinme of the United Nations for International Women's Year, We therefore formally  propose the following amendments: that in the part addressed to Member States on page 2, after  the word "development" in paragraph (a), the following words should be added: "in accordance  ‘with the United Nations programme for International Women's Year... »
58,6 Third, we suggest that a paragraph (f} should be added to the part of the resolution addressed  to Member States on page 2, with the following wording: '(f) to assist the activities undertaken  by national and international non-governmental organizations to promote the objectives of Inter-  national Women's, Year,"
58.7 Finally, Madam President, my delegation supports the amendments to the text in document
18 C/PLEN/DR. 4 Rev, 2 that were orally proposed and explained this afternoon by the delegation  of Australia, and supported by a number of delegations, Thank you very much, Madam President.
59, The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the delegate of the Netherlands and I give the floor to the delegate of Liberia,
60.1 Mrs. AZANGO (Liberia):  Thank you, Madam President, I promise to be brief, The Liberian delegation takes pride  in being a sponsor of the draft resolution in document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 4 Rev, 2. In doing s0 we  voice the sentiment of more than 50% of the population of my country: the women.
60.2 We fully agree with the views of the delegate of Ethiopia that this resolution will go a long  way to improve the rôle and activities of women In the rural areas. Although we happily urge  the unanimous adoption of this resolution, we do endorse the amendments made by the delegations  of Australia and the Netherlands because we feel that they bring clarity end full meaning to the  draft resolution,
60.3 Madam President, in sponsoring this resolution, it was the recommendation of the Liberian  delegation that equality of women should be pursued on the basis of merit, not merely because  they are women. We honestly feel that, unless this position is taken in a promotion of women’s  rights, their selection and advancement might breed unbecoming social and ethical standards  which would not be in the best interests of women. This I am sure most women will support.
60.4 Finally, Madam President, I would like io emphasize that the most important issue {n the  promotion of equality of opportunity for women is the reorientation of the concepts and attitudes  of men so that they accept the view that women could normally succeed in anything if they are given  the right opportunities. A typical exaraple of the rejection of such a concept by men is their  passive reaction in this debate today, How many men have energetically participated in it? How  many men are really Hstening to {t? Many of them have walked out of the room.
60,5 We are not asking for mere words or courtesles, Madem President, what we seek is the  sincere commitment of our male counterparts to understand our desire to serve our countries  and international organizations as successfully as we serve our homes, Consequently, we want  them to take positive steps in executing the provisions of this and similar resolutions that might  be made by other organizations, Thank you, Madam President.
61, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Liberia, I have no other speakers on my list, Before pulting the  draft resolution (18 C/PLEN/DR. 4 Rev. 2) to the vote, 1 give the floor to the Deputy Director.  General,
62.1 Mr. FOBES (Deputy Director-General):  Thank you, Madam President. May 1 say first of all that some of you may have noticed that  here on the tribune in the afternoon there was at first no co-ordinator for human rights and peace,  in the person of Madam Herzog who is the Chairman of our in-house co-ordinating committee for  International Women's Year. She did finally join us, but I may say that we had to loan her to the  working group on peace, coloniallsm and racfalism during the early part of the afternoon, This  at least shows that some women in this house have to be wotking on all aspects of the programme,  including some of the more difficult ones, but Ido want to draw your attention té the fact that  Miss McKitterick was here on the platform and Miss Zahran was sitting over at the side listening  very closely to what you sald,
62,2 1 want to pay tribute to the speakers this afternoon, especially of course to the delegate of  the United States who introduced the subject and to tha delegate of Colombia who made such a  thorough analysis of the factors we should consider as we come close to International Women's  Year. A tribute is also due to the information document, although it fe à bit frightening when it  ascribes a position of leadership to Unesco, Nevertheleus, let me say that inside the Secretariat  we do feel that we should exercise a leadership rôle inside the United Nations system by reason  of the subjects covered by Unesco, But there are so many points in this revolution which is  underway that it is hard to know what to say.
35 62,3 Some of you, ] ain sure, expect me to speak about funds and to say that the funds for carry-  ing out the activities you expect are too few, They are; and 1 do not want you to expect too much  from the Secretariat. U you look in Chapter 5.1 of 18 C/5, you will see some paragraphe in which  there are very modest provisions for funds, and {f you look in the sub-chapter 1, 14 on equality  of educational oppoitunity you will see again what few funds are available for work related to the  subject now under discussion. And therefore when I look at the draft resolution and see referen-  ces to holding regional meetings, while I recognize that there are some funds, they are very few.  If 1 look at the request to extend the pilot projects I must ake the same comment, Even more, 1  must think of the load, the demands made upon us for many other priority activities. All of them  asking for space in the Unesco publications, by the way.
62.4 But nevertheless, having said that, I do not want you to feel that we are at all discouraged,  We have made an analysis of the resolution, at least that part of {t which is directed at the Director-  General, There are 19 points at least in that section; some of them have distinct parts, but let us  say that there are 20 requests to the Director-General, We have analysed them as being four  general directives, two exhortations about our in-house Secretariat policies and procedures, four  very specific actions {for example a convention), eight directives which will constitute orientations  for our regular project operations, and then a number of other points about reporting to this  Conference and about plans for the future, We will take all this, should you adopt this resolutio 1,  and put it in a form that will constitute directives for the Secretariat, even though, as I say, we  feel a bit overwhelmed by how much is expected. Madam President, let me make two points of  substance and then let you close the meeting. first of all here are some reflections about what  has been said this afternoon, and under that heading I can think of three major points that emerge  for us.
62.5 There has been great emphasis on social justic= and it seems to me that this matches, of  course, the tenor of debates in the United Nations system, particularly since 1970 when at the  beginning of the Second Development Decade the keynote was ''a more rational and just international  economic and social order", and I quote from the resolution of the General Assembly about the  Second Development Decade, And here it was clear that a major change had taken place, in which  rather than taking accepted models for economic and social life, and accepting them somewhat  unquestioningly, each country was now to re-examine its own models for development and decide  what it wanted, It seenied to me that this is what you are saying now, It is not just each country  examining the general economic and social models, but asking each country to examine models  in which men and womea and their roles must be restudied and fixed anew.
62,6 And so here I was most impressed by what the delegate of Norway said, when she urged  strongly that we think most about the least privileged-women fn the world, that we not simply do  those things which are ¢asy and therefore may improve the lot of many women who are relatively  well off. Because there 18 a certain danger, If we fc low the old models, of doing things that  will only help those who have already been helped, si:ce it is easier to help them than the least  privileged. And in the 3ame vein, I took very seriously the observations of the delegate of Ethiopia,  who put the emphasis on rural women - certainly they are among those least advantaged, or least  privileged, And I think she spoke, as did others, about reducing the heavy load of daily life on  rural women in particular, and ft struck me that here is a meaning about the transfer or develop-  ment of technology, which we have not yet thought about. We tend to think of technology for  development in terms o! industrlalization, not so much in helping women and the least privileged  of soclety.
62,7 Well, that was my first reflection, based on social justice. The second was the emphasis  you put on equality - aguin not equality according to the old models of economic and social life,  but equality in the way that would in effect create new rôles for men and women and thereby  release their energies end their creative spirit, Here again, it was the delegate of Ethiopia who  spoke about partners in development, and I think the word partners” might become a keynote also.  Because it 1s not just the full use of the resource that Is women which is needed now, but the full  use of the resource of both men and women, a resource which has to be used fn a new way if the  world 18 to survive,
62.8 My third reflection on a matter of substance, Madam President, turned on the reference that  is made In the resolution, in the information document, and in the United Nations theme for the  year, to women's contribution to friendly relations and peace, to use a short phrase, What struck  me today, und in fact recently, is that there have not been any new ideas in this respect, and 1  take it that we should all start thinking about this, There are many important international non-  governmental organizations of women, of course, and thoy do make a contribution to friendly  relations and peace, bul it struck me that here {s an area that Unesco had better start thinking  about. How can women do something new and different in this area of activity? Well, my conclu-  sion, Madam President, Is that we draw a lesson from this most Interesting exposition of your  points of view, But the Director-General will first of all seek to give guidance to the programme  specialists in this Housn, and to the project officers, which will somehow or other capture what  some of you have sald, motivate them and increase their grasp of the issue. To be very practical,  he will in effect tell the programme officer about to visit countries and projects that he must not  come back without having made at least one contact which has to do with the promotion of women's  rôle, in fact, not come back to Paris without something new to report in this respect,
62.9 More seriously, Madam President, we will try to métivate arid instruct the staff of this ' - as  House, who are, of course, the kéys to the programme, And secondly, we will take véry serlôusly  the references by a number of speakers to the'Medium-Term Plan, the 19 C/4 document, which will  cover the years 1977-1982, I think of the remarks of the delegate of Ethiopia, of France, of the  United Kingdom among others, all of whom stressed that it 18 in the Medium- Term Plan that is  going far beyond International Women's Year that we can take account of what we learn from thie  year and incorporate it In the medium-term objectives for those coming six years, Thank you,
63. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Deputy Director-General, Ladies and gentlemen, several amendments have been  submitted to 18 C/PLEN/DR, 4 Rev, 2, I think that the best way 6f proceeding is to take first  the amendments and see whether they are accepted. I ask the Secretary to take the amendments  one by one.
64, The SECRETARY:  Thank you very much, Madam President. I will take the amendments and I will recall them  to you in the order of the paragraphs in tiic resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 4 Rev, 2, The first amend-  ment was submitted by the delegation of thé Netherlands, It concerns the first paragraph of the  preamble, which now reads: ''Reaffirming the Declaration on the Elimination of Discriminition  against Women, and related United Nations Declarations and Covenants concerning human rights...‘  The delegation of the Netherlands proposes to replace the words "United Nations Declarations and  Covenants" by the words "international instruments‘,
65, The PRESIDENT:  Is there any objection to this amendment? No objection. It is adopted,
66. The SECRETARY:  The next amendment, Madam President, is again an amendment presented by the delegation  of the Netherlands. It concerns fhe séction which starts "Invites Member States' on page 2, The  first paragraph (a) reads: ‘to prepare programmes designed to promote the participation of  women on an equal basis with men in social and economic development..." Then you would add  the following words: "In accordance with the United Nations programme of the International  Women's Year" then continuing as before "drawing if they wish in the design", and so on.
67, The PRESIDENT:  Is there any objection to this amendment? An objection? ‘The delegate of Niger has the floor.
68. M. ABDOU (Niger). -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais faire remarquer que l'ajout demandé par l'honorable délé-  gué des Pays-Bas ne me paraît pas du tout conforme à ce que nous souhaitons, puisque nous vou-  lons, en fait, que 1'égalith soit permanente. Du point de vue de celte permanence, les mots "con-  formément au Programme des Nations Unies pour l'Année internationale des femmes" me semblent  très restrictifs, Je préféierais donc qu'on laisse le texte tel quel. Je vous remercie,
69, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I would like to ask the delegate of the Netherlands whether he insists on his  amendment,
70. Mr. ELFFERICH (Netherlands):  Well, 1 do not insist, Madam President, but we think it would be a good thing to have some  reference in this paragraph to the International Women's Year, and that is the reason why we  proposed this amendment, Thank you,
71. The PRESIDENT:  Do you wish me to put your amendment to the vote?
72, Mr. ELFFERICH (Netherlands):  I hesitate, Madam President, but it might be that several delegates would like this small  amendment included in paragraph (a). But I do not insist on a vote on this, I leave it to your  judgement what should be done about it. Thank you.
73, The PRESIDENT:  I cannot decide, I am sorry, Either you withdraw your amendment or I have to put it to the  vote.
74, Mr. ELFFERICH (Netherlands): :  In that case, 1 would like to have it voted upon. Thank you, Madam President.
75. The PRESIDENT:  AN right. The Secretary will read the amendment once more.
76, The SECRETARY: . :,  ‘The amendment concerns page 2 of the English text, the section starting "Invites Member  States" and the amended paragraph, paragraph (a), as proposed hy the delegation of the Netherlands,
35 would read: "to prepare programmes designed to promote the participation of women on an equal  basis with men into social and economic development In accordance with the United Nations pro-  gramme for the International Women's Year, drawing if they wish, in the design of such pro-  grammes, upon Unesco's consultative services in {ts fields of compstence;'’,
77.1 The PRESIDENT:  I now put to the vote the amendment submitted by the Netherlands,  (The vote was taken by show of hands. )
77.2 The amendment has been rejected (6 votes in favour, 43 against, 23 abstentions).
78.1 The SECRETARY:  The next amendment, Madam President, is an Australian amendment which concerns para-  graph (n) on page 3.
78,2 Australia proposes to replace paragraph (n) entirely by the following text: "to seek sub-  stantial support from National Commissions and appropriate non-governmental organizations fn  giving effect to this resolution;
79. The PRESIDENT:  If there is no objection to this amendment, I declare it adopted,
80. The SECRETARY:  ‘The next amendment, Madam President, 1s again an amendment by the delegation of Australia,  It concerns paragraph (q) on page 4 of the English text, which should be replaced by the following  text: "to take note of all major decisions taken by relevant international conferences and con-  gresses convened during International Women's Year, including the United Nations International  Women's Year Conference and the International Conference of Women".
81,1 The PRESIDENT:  Is there any objection to this amendment?
81.2 The delegate of Ukraine has the floor.
82, F-u B.A, KPABEIL (Yxpanncxan Coserckas Couxanuernueckas PecnyGauka):  Bnaroaapp pac, topapHm lpeacenarens, MoxeT 6HTb Aeferaudn ABCTPparHH yAOBNETBOPHAA 6H  Gopuyna "oka3nBaTh NOMOMb H YYHTHBATL", NOTOMY WTO HaM KAXeTCH, WTO Hama OpraHWsauHa Aon-  XHA OKa3HEATH NOMOMb TaxXe MPOBEACHHD THX MeXAyHapoaHux POpyMOB xeumuH, ME npenounk
611, 4TOoGH OGe HAeH HamnH OTPaxeHHe B 3TOM naparpade, Braroxapp Bac.
(82) Mr, KRAVETS (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Madam President, Would the delegation of Australia perhaps be satisfied with the words  "to afford assistance to, and to take note of" since we feel that our Organization should afford assistance  to the running of these international women's meetings as well. We would prefer both ideas to find a place  in this paragraph. Thank you.
83, The PRESIDENT:  I would like to ask the delegate of Australia whether she agrees with this amendment,
84.1 Mrs, TURNBULL (Australia):  Thank you, Madam President. 1am rather sorry to say that I have some hesitation in accept-  ing, because Ido not think our delegation wishes to commit the Director-General to aiding decisions  before they are taken.
84,2 I think that in asking him to take note, he is then in a position to assist, as appropriate, 1  wish to keep our amendment as it stands because I do not wish the General Conference to commit  the Director-General in advance to supporting decisions that have not yet been taken. Thank you,
85, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I ask the delegate of Ukraine whether he insists on his amendment,
(80) Mr. KRAVETS (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic) {Translation from the Russian):  ‘Thank you, Madam President, Our delegation prefers the wording at present contained {nthe joint  text of a Jerge numter of co-author countries, Thank you.
87.1 The PRESIDENT:  I now put to the vote the amendment submitted by the delegate of Australia,
266   (The vote was taken by show of hands, )
87.2 The amendment has been carried by 45 votes to 11, with 12 abstentions,
88, The SECRETARY:  There are some difficulties with regard to the next amendment, Madam President, The  original amendment comes from the Australian delegation and it is a very simple one under which  paragraph (r) would be relocated under the heading “Invites Member States’ on page 2 as a new  paragraph, But, at the same time, in its third amendment, the Netherlands delegation proposes  to add a paragraph (f) to the part of the resolution addressed to Member States with the following  wording: "to assist the activities undertaken by national non-governmental organizations to pro-  mote the objectives of the International Women's Year",
89, The PRESIDENT:  Could the delegate of the Netherlands accept the amendment of the delegate of Australia as  covering his own point?
90, Mr, ELFFERICH (Netherlands):  Yes, Madam President, we accept.
91.1 The PRESIDENT:  If there is no objection to the Australian amendment, I shall consider it adopted,
91,2 I now put to the vote the draft resolution contained in docyment 18 C/PLEN/DR. 4 Rev. 2  as a whole, as amended.  (The vote was taken by show of hands.)  ©1,3 The draft resolution in document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 4 Rev, 2, as amended, has been adopted  without opposition, with one abstention,
91.4 Ladies and gentlemen, I consider that the General Conference has had a high level and  fuspiring debate and has passed a very good and important resolution on Unesco's efforts concern-  ing the improvement of the status of women, I congratulate you on it. I also thank the Deputy  Director-General for his contribution indicating the importance the Secretariat attaches to this  issue. I feel that the only weak point of the debate was that, although the great majority of nearly
2, 000 delegates to and observers at the Conference are men, only {wo of them have participated in  the debate, I consider, however, that this fact must not prevent us from believing In the success  of the International Women's Year, The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 6.55 p, m.  La séance cst levée A 18 h, 55  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 18,55
3aceAaHne sakpripaercs B 18 y, 55 Mun,  LL VRS 0 Cena sh) wold! lt o [PAIN ca,