Thirty-sixth plenary meeting
19 November 1974'at 10,20 aim. =  President: Mrs, JOBORU (Hungary)  Trente-sixième séance plénière  “ 19 novembre 1974, à 10 h, 20  Présidente: Mme Jébora (Hongrie)  Trigesimosexta sesion plenaria
19 Hoa6ps 1974 r, B 10 4.20 MHH.  HpeaceAatTenb: r-xa HOBOPY (Benrpua)  Nl Ls) BUT EAST  “a Bil gaye GBI ourts/ nis 14 et  Comal) spon Beal 3 ust  REPORT 'OF COMMISSION 1 (EDUCATION)/RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION 1 (EDUCATION)/  INFORME DE LA'COMISION I (EDUCACION)/ BOKJAR KOMHCCHH | (OBPA3OBAHHE)  (hp) bY Ball js
1, The PRESIDENT:  The meeting fs called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, our business is now to approve the  report of Commission I (Education), The relevant documents are: 18 C/120, whiéh fs the narra-  tive part of the Commicsion's report; 18 C/120 Annex-Recommendations; document 18 C/128,  Draft Revised Recommendation concerning Technical and Vocational Education; and document
18 C/118, Draft Recommendation concerning Education for International Understanding, Co-  operation and Peace and Education relaiing to Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, Now I  call upon the Chairman of Commission I, Dr, Aklilu Habte, to present the report of the Commission.
2.1 Mr. HABTE (Ethiopia) (Chairman of Commission I):  Thank you, Madam‘President. It is an honour to present the report of Commission Ion educa-  tion, which is the result of team work between delegations of Member States, the Sedretariat and  the officers of the Commission, I want to seize this opportunity to commend through you fo the  plenary ail those that co- operated for their valuable contributions, hard work and spirit of under-  standing and for the give-and-take atmosphere that reigned in the Commission from beginning to  end,
2.2 Madam President, as delegales have the reports before them, it is not necessary for me to  take time to present a detailed report; however, please allow me to make a few general remarks.
2.3 Firstly, there was a general consensus on the two basic principles, the democratization and  the regeneration of education in the context of life-long education, Secondly, these principles  were illustrated and made vivid as delegates spoke on the various sub-chapters, dections and  individual items, dealing with the content of education, the methods to be used and tHe structures  to be innovated, It was heartening for me to observe the general consensus emerging as delegates  spoke on the importance and the nature of the various topics. Thirdly, although the budget ceiling,  and the consequent reduction of our appropriations, might have led to a sense of frustration, dele-  gates, realizing the true situation, went about their jobs as professionally as possible without too  much negative feeling. And fourihly, although there wore agreements, consensus and at times .  unanimity, yet there were areas that were suggested for further study, further report and further  rationalization and improvements,
2.4 Among these areas figure the following: one, the need to rationalize and arijculate regponsi-  bilities, functions, and activities among the respective departments of the Secretariat, the  International Institute of Educational Planning, the Unesco Institute for Educttion in Hamburg and
269   the International Bureau of Education in Geneva; two, the {importance of further rationalization of  programme managementiwifh a’ylew, to better economy and ¢ftiglency ir) the str ngthening of pro-  cedures for evaluatirig performanées; three, the need to improve the delivery system of experts;  and four, the continuation of progressive decentralization of Unesco's activities by strengthening  the regional bureaux,
2,5 Madam President, the four documents before you Include the report of the Commission, docu-  ment 18 C/120, 7 8 in paragraphs. 1 through .§, JTE the, items on «the agenda of the  Commission, the officets that ‘were ünédimiously elects by the Commission, and the working  methods followed, Next the reactions, the areas of agreement and disagreement, the support or  the critical comments of Member States, as well as the repliés and explanations of the Secretariat  on the general issues and on sub-chaptèrs covering various Individual items, are all found in para-  graphs 7 through 374 of the document, 18 C/120. Lastly, the recommendations, including resolu-  tions, appropriations and formal action fo fake note of the corres onding work plans, are found in  document 18 C/120 Anhriek-Recommendationis, beginning with Section 1, 11; Educational policy and  planning, and ending with Chapter 1. A, International Bureau of Education,
2.6 It is a pleasure, Madam President, to present this report through you to the plenary session  of the General Conference for adoption and appropriate action. I thank you,
3. The PRESIDENT: i  ; ea tae vo oo 114 ; ph.  I thank Dr, Aklilu Habte for the presentation of the report of Commission I. I wish now to  inform you of the procedure for adoption of the report. The narrative part of document 18 C/120  only requires to be taken note of by the delegates. Can I assume that the plenary is ready to take  note of the narrative part of the report? The delegate of Gabon has the floor,
4.1 M, MAGWANGU (Gabon).- _ ’ - a tT,  Madame la Présidente, le Gabon est ditiposé A prendre note du rapport, mais je voudrai tout  de même signaler ici que nous aurions souhaitéavoir plus de précisions en ce qui concerne l'Uni-  versité des Nations Unies. J'espère que cela se fera dans des entretiens particuliers que nous  pourrons avoir avec le Secrétariat.
4.2 En effet, le Gabon, comme certains pays, est convaincu que l'Unesco ne pourra contribuer  efficacement à la bonne marche de l'Université des Nations Unies que si elle respecte son carac-  tère interdisciplinaire, et que l'organe ccrrespondant au sein du Secrétariat devra donc nécessaire-  ment posséder le caractère d'une unité spéciale, comme cela se fait déjà pour des programmes  tels que célui de la jeunesse.
4.3 Je tenais expressément à ce que cette opinion figure dans le compte rendu du présent débat.  Merci, Madame la Présidente. :
5. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Gabon, Are there any further remarks? The delegate of Nepal has the  floor,
6.1 Mr, SAINJU (Nepal):  Thank you, Madam President, The delegation of Nepal is algo in agreement with the general  form of the report and is in a position to note it, with the exception of one point, Madam President,  regarding page 54, paragraph 292,
6.2 The delegate of Nepal drew the attention of the Rapporteur in Commission to the statement  made on behalf of the delegation of Nepal in relation to the projected convention on the recog-  nition of studies and degrees in higher education and suggested accordingly, Madam President,  that a reference to Asia should also be included in the second sentence of paragraph 292, which  reads: ‘’Several delegates spoke in support of the project, to begin the preparation of similar  conventions for Africa and for Europe",
6.3 My delegation requests that a reference to Asia be inserted in the list, because the delegate  of Nepal clearly mentioned this during the discussion in the Commission. Thank you Madam  President,
7. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Nepal. The delegate of Brazil has the floor.
8, Mile RENAULT (Brésil). - .  Madame la Présidente, je vous saurais gré de me permettre de demander que soient ajoutés  à la fin du paragraphe 335 concernant la section 1.42 (document 18 C/120) les mots suivants, pré-  cédés d'une virgule: "Tout en respectant les vocations individuellss'". Je vous remercie, Madame  la Présidente.
9,1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I must inform you that the narrative part of the report cannot be  amended by the plenary, The narrative part of the report is the reflection of the deliberations of
270   the Commission and it was adopted by the Commission, Consequently, the statements made by  several speakers will be recorded, and will appear in the verbatim records,
9,2 As there are no further speakers, I shall consider that the narrative part df the report has  been noted, Thank you,
9.3 We shall now take up the draft resolutions submitted for approval as well as the two draft  Recommendations, In view of the heavy workload still before the plenary; ‘the Gerieral Com-  mittee of the Conference has suggested that,’ to aave time, those draft resolutions and recommen-  dations unanimously recommended for approval, or recommended without any vote against, although  with some abstentions, need not be voted on formally unless delègates ask specifically that a vote  be taken,
9,4 1 shall take the resolutions in the ordeÿ in which théy appear in document 18 C/120 Anñèx=  Recommendations,  Paragraph 1
9.5 The Commission recommended unanimously that the General Conference adopt the resolution  included in paragraph 1. It is adopted,  Paragraph 2
9.6 The Commission recommended unanimously that the Geaeral Conference take note of the ’  appropriation as shown in paragraph 2, The Conference takes note of this appropriation,  Paragraph 3
9.7 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of the work plan for  Section 1,11. The Conference takes note of this work plan.  Paragraph 4
9.8 The Commission recommended by 64 votes to none, with one abstention, that the General  Conference adopt the resolution appearing in paragraph 4, It is adopted.  Paragraph 5
9.9 The Commission recommended by 64 votes to none, with one abstention, that the General  Conference adopt the resolution included in this paragraph. It is adopted,  Paragraph 6
9.10 The Commission recommended by 64 votes to none, with one abstention, that the General  Conference take note of an appropriation as shown in this paragraph. The Conference takes note  of this appropriation.  Paragraph 7
9.11 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of the work plan for  Section 1, 12, The Conference takes note of this work plan,  Paragraph 8
9,12 The Commission recommended by 59 votes to none, with 4 abstentions, the adoption nf the  resolution shown in this paragraph, This resolution is adopted. ;  Paragraph 9
9.13‘ Thé Commission recommended by 59 votes to none, with 4 abstentions, that the General  Conference take note of an appropriation, The Conference takes note of the appropriation.  Paragraph 10
9,14 The Commission recommended that the Geri¢ral Conference take note of the work plan for  Section 1, 13, The Conference takes note of this, -  Paragraph 11
9.15 The Commission recommended unanimously that the General Conference adopt the resolution  shown In this paragraph, It is adopted, 2
9,16 The Commission recommended unanimously that the General Conference adopt the resolution  shown in this paragraph. It is adopted unanimously.  Paragraph 13
9,17 The Coramission unanimously recommended that the General Conference take note of the  figure quoted in this paragraph. The Conference takes note of this figure,  Paragraph 14
9,18 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note »f the budget estimates  and the requirements shown in this paragraph, The Conference takes note of these,  Paragraph 15
9.19 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of the work plan and  the staff proposed under Section 1, 14, Tle Conference takes note of these,  Paragraph 16
9.20 The Commission recommended by !i7 votes to 1 with one abstention, that the General Con-  ference adopt the resolution shown in the paragraph, which also appears fn Annex II to document
9,21 I shall put to the vote the resolution contained in paragraph 16,  (A vote was taken by show of hands’
9,22 The resolution has been adopted unanimously.  Paragraph 17
9,23 The Commission unanimously recommended the adoption of the resolution contained in this  paragraph, It ls adopted unanimously.  Paragraph 18
8,24 The Commission recom'nended that the-General Conference take note of the work plan for  Section 1,21. The Conference takes note of it.  Paragraph 19
9.25 The Commission ananimously recommended that the General Conference take note of the  appropriation included in this paragraph. The Conference takes note of this appropriation,  Paragraph 20
9.26 By a unarfmous vote, the Commission recommended that the General Conference adopt the  resolution shown in this paragraph. It is adopted unanimously,  Paragraph 21
9,27 The Commission recommended by 69 votes to none, with 12 abstentions, that the General  Conference adopt the resolutions contained in paragraph 21. They are adopted,  Paragraph 22
9,28 The Commission recommended by 69 votes in favour, with 3 abstentions, that the General  Conference adopt the resolutions shown in this paragraph. The resolutions are adopted,  Paragraph 23
9,29 The Commission unanimously recommend that the General Conference adopt the resolution  shown in this paragraph, 1t is adopted unanimously,  Paragraph 24
9.30 The Zomralssion recommended that the General Conference take note of the work plan ard  the staff p:“posed for Section 1,22, The Conference takes note of this,
9,31 The Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference take note of the  total appropriation for Section 1, 22 as set forth in this paragraph, The General Conference takes  note of this appropriation,  Paragraph 26
9,32 The Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolution  contained in this paragraph. The resolution is adopted unanimously,  Paragraph 27
9.33 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of the work plan and  the staff proposed for Section 1,23, The General Conference takes note of these,  Paragraph 28
9,34 The Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference take note of the  appropriation as set forth in this paragraph, The Conference takes note of this appropriation.  Paragraph 29
9,35 The Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolution  contained in this paragraph, The resolution is adopted unanimously,  Paragraph 30
9,36 The Commission recommended the General Conference, to take note of the work plan and  staff proposed for Section 1,24. The Conference takes note of these.  Paragraph 31
9,37 The Commission unanimously recommended that the Conference take note of the total appro-  priation for Section 1,24, The Conference takes note of this appropriation,  Paragraph 32
9.38 The Commission decided unanimously to recommend that the General Conference adopt the  resolutions contained in paragraph 32, The resolutions are adopted unanimously,  Paragraph 33
9.39 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of the work plan and  staff proposed for Section 1.25, The General Conference takes note of these,  Paragraph 34
9.40 The Commission unanimously recommended that the (General Conference take note of the  appropriation for Section 1,25 ‘set forth in this paragraph, The Conference takes note of this  appropriation.  Paragraph 35
9, 41 The Commission recommended unanimously that the General Conference adopt the resolution  c-‘itained in this paragraph. It {s adopted unanimously,  Paragraph 36
9,42 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of the work plan and  the staff proposed for Section 1,26. The Conference takes note of thege,  Paragraph 37
9.43 The Commission decided unanimously to recommend that the General Conference take note  of a total appropriation for Section 1, 26 as shown in this paragraph. The Conference takes note  of this appropriation,  Paragraph 38
9.44 The Commission recommended that the Conference také note of the budget table relating to  directing staff for Sub-Chapter 1,2, The Conference takes note of thia.
9.45 The Commission recommended by 74 votes to 10 that the Géneral Conférence adopt the resolu-  tion contained in this paragraph.
9.46 I shall put to the vote the resolution,  {The vote was taken by show of hands)
9.47 The resolution has been adopted by 79 votes to none, with 4 abstentions,  Paragraph 40
9.48 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of an appropriation for  Section 1, 31 as set forth in the paragraph. The Conference takes note of this appropriation,  Paragraph 41
9,49 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of the work plan relat-  ing to Section 1.31, The Conference takes note of it,  Paragraph 42
9,50 The Commission recommended by 63 votes to none, with 1 abstention, that the General Con-  ference adopt the two resolutions contained in this paragraph, The resolutions are adopted,  Paragraph 43
9,51 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of an appropriation for  Section 1, 32 as set forth in this paragraph, The General Conference takes note of this appropriation,  Paragraph 44
9.52 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of the work rian for  Section 1,32, The Conference takes note of this work plan.  Paragraph 45
9,53 The Commission recommended by 51 votes to 1, with 16 abstentions, that the General Con-  ference adopt the resolution contained in this paragraph,
9.54 I shall put the resolution to the vote,  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
9,55 The resolution has been adopted by 73 votes to none, with 5 abstentions.  Paragraph 46
9.56 The Commission recommended by 87 votes to none, with 1 abstention, that the General Con:  ference adopt the resolution contained in this paragraph. It is adopted.  Paragraph 47
9.57 The Commission recommended by 81 votes to none, with 1 abstention, that the General  Conference adopt the resolution contained in this paragraph. It is adopted.  Paragraph 48
9,58 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of the appropriation  for Section 1.33 set forth in this paragraph. The Conference takes note of this appropriation,  Paragraph 49
9.59 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of the work plan for  Section 1.33 in this paragraph. The Conference takes note of this,  Paragraph 50
9.60 The Commission recommended by 72 votes to 1, that the General Conference adopt the  resolution contained in this paragraph,
9.61 1 shall put the resolution to the vote,  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
9.62 The resolution has been adopted unanimously.  Paragraph 51
9,63 The Commission recommended by 17 votes to 1, with 64 abstentions, that the General Con-  ference adopt the resolution contained in this paragraph.
9,64 I put to the vote this resolution,  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
9,65 The draft resolution has been adopted by 29 votes to none, with 37 abstentions,  Paragraph §2
9,66 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of the appropriation  for Section 1.41 as set forth in this paragraph. The Conference take note of this appropriation.  Paragraph 53
9.67 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of the work plan indi-  cated in this paragraph. The Conference takes note of this.  Paragraph 54
9,68 The Commission recommended by 86 to none, with 2 abstentions, that the General Confer-  ence adopt the resolution contained in this paragraph. The resolution is adopted,  Paragraph 55
9.69 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of the appropriation  set forth in this paragraph, The Conference takes note of this appropriation,  Paragraph 56
9.70 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of the work plan for  Section 1,42, The Conference takes note of this.  Paragraph 57
9.71 The Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference approve the budget  summary and appropriation for Chapter I, Education Sector. It is approved unanimously,  Paragraph 58
9.72 The Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolution  shown in this paragraph, It is adopted unanimously,  Paragraph 59
9,73 The Commission recommended by 60 votes to none, with 6 abstèntions, that the General  Conference adopt the resolution contained in this paragraph, Il is adcpted,  Paragraph 60
9.74 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of the work plan for  Chapter IA. The Conference takes note of this work plan,  DRAFT REVISED RECOMMENDATION CONCERNING TECHNICAL AND OCATIONAL  EDUCATION  PROJET DE RECOMMANDATION REVISEE CONCERNANT L'ENSEIGNEMENT  TECHNIQUE ET PROFESSIONNEL  PROYECTO DE RECOMENDACION REVISADA RELATIVA ALA ENSENANZA TECNICA  Y PROFESIONAL,  NPOEKT NEPECMOTPEHHOÏ PEKOMEBIOAUHH O TEXHHYECKOM H  NPOPECCHOHANILHOM OBPA3OBAHHH  oll Bal pabaall olay Maas duos gp
10,1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, now we pass to item 25 of the agenda, document 18 C/128, The Com-
275   mission has recomm2nded this document for your unanimous approval, Does anybody wish to  speak on the Draft Revised Recommendation concerning Technical and Vocational Education? I  am told that we have to take a vote on this item in any case, Solputtothe vote document 18 C/128,  {The vote was taken by show of hands)
10,2 It is unanimously approved. The draft recommendation is adopted.  DRAFT RECOMMEND ATION CONCERNING EDUCATION FOR INTERNATIONAL  UNDERSTANDING, CO-OPERATION AND PEACE AND EDUCATION RELATING TO  HUMAN RIGHTS AND FUNDAMENTAL FREEDOMS  PROJET DE RECOMMANDATION CONCERNANT L'EDUCATION POUR LA  COMPREHENSION, LA COOPERATION ET LA PAIX INTERNATIONALES ET  L'EDUCATION RELATIVE AUX DROITS DE L'HOMME ET AUX LIBERTES  FONDAMENTALES  PROYECTO DE RECOMENDACION SOBRE LA EDUCACION PARA LA COMPRENSION,  LA COOPERACION Y LA PAZ INTERNACIONALES Y LA EDUCACION RELATIVA A LOS  DERECHOS HUMANOS Y LAS LIBERTADES FUNDAMENTALES  NPOEKT PEKOMEHIAUHXH O BOCINHTAHHH B AYXE MEXIYHAPOAHOTO  B3AHMOIOHHMAHHS, COTPY IHHYECTBA H MHPA H O BOCNHTAHHH  B AYXE YBAXEHHA PAB YEJIOBEKA H OCHOBHBIX CBOBOJ  ola Vg Jos i degitly hull pal gb Nally gylaatly abil Jad oe degall gLite Boos go  : Le Le sus;
11. The PRESIDENT:  Now we proceed to item 24 of the agenda, document 18 C/118, Draft Recommendation concern-  ing education for international understanding, co-operation and peace and education relating to  human rights and fundamental freedoms, I give the floor to the Secretary of the General Confer-  ence for an announcement,
12. The SECRETARY:  Thank you, Madam President, There is an amendment to this draft recommendation, in  Section V.
13. The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, there is an amendment to the draft recommendation and I call upon the  delegat f Norway to present that amendment,
14.1 Mr. GARBO (Norway):  Madam President, It is only reluctantly that the five Nordic countries have decided to put for-  ward an amendment to the draft recommendation concerning education for international understand-  ing, document 18 C/118, We have certainly no desire to reopen the debate on a document that has  been conscientiously scrutinized by Commission I, My own delegation was indeed able to vote in  favour of the final text adopted by the Commission and we might have done so again today.
14.2 Why then bother the plenary with an amendment? We consider the recommendation concern-  ing education for international understanding to be an important instrument that ought to be  implemented and respected the world over. That is to say, the instrument should be accepted by  unanimity by the General Conference of Unesco, The fine principles of this recommendation ought  to influence teaching and make an impact on attitudes in all countries of the world, That cannot be  the case if important countries today refuse to support and to reccramend the content of the  document,
14,3 But that is indeed exactly what might now happen, Sharp disugreement was unfortunately  caused in Commission T ovér the adoption of two new paragraphs, namely the present paragraphs
14 and 15 of document 18 C/118. These two paragraphs do certainly identify central structural  problems of international politics which it will be the duty of Unzsco to study on more than one  occasion. There is no doubt that the sponsors of thé paragraphs drew our attention to these  important issues, but the words in question were not included {i the draft approved by the special  committee of government experts. ‘The instrument is certainly there, even if the formulations of  paragraphs 14 and 15 should be somewhat rephrased. In the view of the Nordic delegations it  would be a shame indeed if this valuable instrument should los: in prestige and support because  of disagreement concerning this wording, and if the recommendation, as a consequence, should  not be applied in countries where education for international understanding may not be less needed  than elsewhere,
14,4 That is why we have put forward the draft amendment 18 C/ED/DR.7. Permit me to read  out the text to you:
14,5 Amend paragraph 14 as follows: "Education should include critical analysis of all the econo-  mie, political and social factors, both of a historical and a contemporary nature, underlying  tensfons between countries, together with study of ways of overcoming these tensions, which are  impediments to international understanding, co-operation and peace",
14.6 Amend paragraph 15 as follows: "Education should emphasize the genuine interests of all  peoples În obtaining economic, political and social equality, both at the national and at interna-  tional level, viewed as a prerequisite for avoiding exploitation by political and economic pressure  groups", ,[
14,7 One might perhaps, Madam President, conceive of alternative formulations that might as  well recommend themselves, However, the text of the amendment has been very carefully drawn  up, in consultation with other delegations, and in an effort to approach consensus as closely as  possible, In choosing the term "exploitation by political and economic pressure groups” we are  hinting at positions of power which contradict the principle of equality, The words which we have  used have two merits: they cover the same realities that are expressed by the unfortunately con-  troversial text of 18 C/118; but the somewhat more moderate expressions which are being used in  the amendment may, In so far as we have been able to ascertain, come to be accepted by groups  that felt obliged to oppose the present text, The amendment might therefore, hopefully, pave the  way for a consensus in the final vote on the proposed recommendation today,
14,8 The Nordic delegations find that a unanimous recommendation will be a more valuable con-  tribution to international understanding than a disputed text, The very aim of the instrument is,  if 1 may quote the noble words of paragraph 3, to "promote understanding, tolerance and friend-  ship among all natlons'; but can an appeal for understanding, tolerance and friendship be con-  vincing if there is disagreement about the appeal itself? The Nordic delegations find that the  General Conference of Unesco ought to start its recommendation for international education by  reaching a consensus on the formulation of the recommendation itself. That is why we sincerely  hope that all of you may support our amendment today, Thank you, Madam President.
15. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the delegate of Norway. Before giving the floor to the delegate of Peru, I give the  floor to the Secretary,  } 1 The SECRETARY:  Thank you, Madam President, I think I am now in order to make a correction to the Spanish  text of draft resolution 18 C/ED/DR. 7. Paragraph 14 now reads: "La educacibn ha de comprender  el anâlisis...', but should read: "La éducacién deberfa comprender el anblisis,.."
17, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I now give the floor to the delegate of Peru,
(18.1) M. CHIAPPO (Pérou),- (Traduit de l'espagnol.)  Madame la Présidente, je me demande si le Bureau acceptera que la proposition de la Norvège, de  la Suède, du Danemark, de l'Islande et de la Finlande, présentée aujourd'hui, soit examinée, car elle  n'est pas passée par le Comité des Résolutions et j'ai l'impression qu'elle est intempestive.
(18.2) On veut avec cette proposition obtenir l'unanimité, ce dont nous nous félicitons ; mais nous vou-  drions savoir auparavant si elle est acceptable et, après mon intervention, j'aimerais avoir l'opinion du  Bureau sur ce problème de recevabilité,
(18.3) Je voudrais ensuite préciser que les paragraphes 14 et 15 du document 18 C/118 ont donné lieu en  Commission à un long examen, A un long débat ; cela est vrai, mais on ne peut pas dire pour autant qu’il  y a eu des controverses, car le document 18 C/ED/DR,6 qui a été présenté à la Commission I a obtenu
32 voix contre 8, c'est-à-dire une majorité importante ; lors du vote sur l'ensemble des textes qui cons-  tituent actuellement le document 18 C/118, ceux-ci ont obtenu en Commission 72 voix contre 1, avec six  abstentions. En d'autres termes, il s'est dégagé au sein de la Commission une volonté catégorique, claire-  ment, nettement majoritaire, de 72 voix contre 1, pour recomm- nder le document avec ses amendements.  Il y à eu une seule voix défavorable ; tout cela est très encourageant, Et je félicite les délégations nor-  diques de cet effort pour atteindre l'unanimité, mais nous nous demandons si elle se fera. Il y aura des  délégations qui s'abstiendront, et donc 11 n'y aura pas d'unanimité, car certaines délégations auront peut-  “Are des réserves à faire sur d'autres paragraphes.
(18,4) Si le document obtenait l'unanimité, ce serait magnifique pour tout le monde, et manifestement, la  formule que proposent la Norvège, le Suède, le Danemark, l'Islande et la Finlande attenue, je le recor=~fs,  la dureté de ton des paragraphes 14 et 15. ,
(18.5) Essentiellement, 11 y a une grande différence entre les deux; dans l'amendement norvégien, on ne  parle pas des contradictions qui se situent au niveau structurel et on parle seulement des tensions qui sont  simplement symptômatiques dès contradictions de caractère économique, politique et social, Néanmoins,  ces dernières ne sont pas exclues ; franchement, il faut le dire, sl le texte ne mentionne pas les contra-  dictions structurales, il ne les exclut pas non plus car il parle des facteurs qui sont à la base des tensions,  et je félicite à cet égard les auteurs d'être parvenus à une formule satisfaisante.
(18.6) Je voudrais pourtant relever les différences ; alors que le paragraphe 14 du document dont nous 36  sommes saisis évoque des "contradictions", le paragraphe 14 de la proposition nordique ne les mentionne  pas, mème s'il s'y réfère implic{tement en parlant des facteurs qui sont À l'origine des tensions, Au  paragraphe 15, il existe aussi une différence ; le paragraphe 15 du document 18 C/118 parle d'une éduca-  tion qui devrait "montrer quels sont les véritables Intérêts des peuples et l'incomptabilité de ces intérêts’  avec ceux des groupes qui monopolisent le pouvoir économique et politique, pratiquent l'exploitation et  fomentent la guerre”. Si ce paragraphe de la déclaration est dur, c'est que la réalité des groupes mono-  polistiques qui pratiquent l'exploitation et fomentent la guerre est dure elle aussi,
(18.7) La réalité est plus dure que les mots, et donc, si nous voulons atténuer les propos, mettre de  l'huile dans les rouages, nous n'enlevons rien à la vérité. La vérité est une chose; la vérité se trans-  forme par la pratique et par l'action ; la vérité c'est ce que dit le document 18 C/118, au paragraphe 15,  lorsqu'il déclare que les intérêts véritables des peuples son incompatibles avec les intérèts des groupes  économiques, monopolistiques et que ceux-ci pratiquent l'exploitation et fomentent la guerre.
(18.8) C'est sur ce point qu'il faut éclairer l'élève, Quand les délégations nordiques nous donnent une  version où l'on montre plutôt l'intérêt véritable des peuples à l'égard de l'égalité économique et où l'on  signale que cette éducation serait une condition préalable pour éviter d'être exploité, elles se réfèrent  elles-aussi manifestement, encore qu'avec moins de dureté, au même phénomène,
(18.9) Madame la Présidente, nous comprenons que l'on souhaite que les Etats membres adoptent le texte  à l'unanimité, En Commission, un seul Etat membre a voté contre, Je ne sais quelle est l'opinion de cet  Etat membre qui a voté contre l'amendement de la Norvège ; je ne sais pas non plus quelle est l'opinion  des autres Etats sur d'autres parties du document qui les empêchent d'approuver le texte et de parvenir à
1'unanimité,
(18.10) En résumé, Madame la Présidente, je veux conclure par deux remarques ; tout d'abord, je de-  mande au Bureau si la présentation d'un amendement en séance plénière est pertinente, étant donné qu'il  devrait être soumis trois jours à l'avance, et je demande que le règlement soit appliqué ; d'autre part, si  l'amendement est accepté, nous voulons insister sur la nécessité de l'unanimité, qui pourrait peut-être se  faire avec l'amendement nordique ; mals, à défaut d'unanimité, il est préférable d'avoir un vote majori-  taire en faveur d'un texte net et catégorique comme celui du document 18 C/118. Telle est la position de  notre délégation,
(18.11) Madame la Présidente, je voudrais qu'il soit clair que nous sommes entièrement ouverts au d{a-  logue et aux possibilités d'atteindre l'unanimité, et que nous sommes disposés notamment à accepter  l'amendement de la Norvège, de la Suède et du Danemark. Il faut cependant entendre les autres dé-  légations. Si les opinions étaient contradictoires, mieux vaudrait passer au vote, Merci, Madame la  Présidente,
19. The PRESIDENT: .  I thank the delegate of Peru, and I wish to reply that the amendment presented by Norway is  in order. Every delegate has the right to present amendments in plenary, either orally or in  writing, I give the floor to the delegate of France,
20.1 M. GUITON (France). -  Madame la Présidente, la délégation française appuie sans réserves l'amendement présenté  par les cinq pays coauteurs du projet de résolution 18 C/ED/DR. 1. Le projet de recommandation  qui avait été adopté à l'unanimité au printemps dernier par le Cornité intergouvernemental d'ex-  perts marquaît l'aboutissement d'un long processus de persuasion, d'enquêtes, d'accumulation  d'expériences, de débats, d'entretiens, de séminaires ; il représentait le fruit d'une longue matu-  ration et constituait, au regard du grand mandat de l'Unesco, un tvénement majeur, Au sein de  la Commission de l'éducation, la délégation française avait exprirné le regret qu'une telle unani-  mité fût remise en question par des propositions dont certaines, pretant à controverse, allaient  à l'encontre de l'objectif visé par le projet de recommandation.
20.2 Les deux amendements qui sont devant nous sont présentés dans un ésprit de compréhension  et, ajoutons-le, de réalisme pédagogique ; ils sont donc de nature, nous semble-t-il, à rétablir  l'unanimité à laquelle il est bien évident que la Conférence générale doit tendre en ce domaine,  Merci, Madame la Présidente.
21, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of France and I give the floor to the delegate of Guinea.
22.1 M, CAMARA (Guinée). -  Madame la Présidente, ma délégation se demande s'il faut chercher l'unanimité pour 1'unani-  mité, tout en rejetant leg intérêts de la grande majorité des peuples, Cela ne sonne pas en faveur  de la thèse avancée par les délégations des pays nordiques qui souhaiteraient que l'unanimité se  fasse sur un document qui tend à dénaturer le contenu même d'une recommandation.
22,2 Ma délégation a par ailleurs des réserves à faire sur ce document en ce qui concerne notam-  ment le point 6, dont nous estimons que la formulation ne correspond pas à la thèse de bon nombre  de délégués, Ce qui est proposé ici sur les thèmes de la guerre, de la force et de la violence équi-  vaudrait à maintenir le statu quo et à empêcher la réalisation d'un idéal commun à tous les peuples,  surtout aux peuples qui sont sous domination étrangère, aux peuples qui luttent pour retrouver leur  territoire national. Nous lierions les bras à ces peuples, Il est question des peuples qui sont en  Afrique du Sud, de ceux qui se trouvent au Proche-Orient, Ma délégation fait donc des réserves  sur ce point 6, et suggère des propositions d'amendement.
22,3 Nous voudrions qu'on ajoute, après le mot "guerre" l'expression "a la guerre d'expansion,  d'agressioïi et de domination", et aprés "force et violence" "a 1a force et À la violence de répres-  sion", Nous voulons en effet opposer A la guerre d'agression ou ‘de domination la guerre de libé-  ration, et à la force et à la violence de répression la force et la violence révolutionnaires, c'est-  A-dire la violence de libération. Je vous remercie, Madame la Présidente.
23, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Canada,
24. M, GAGNON (Canada), -  Je voudrais simplemént, Madame la Présidente, apporter l'appui du Canada au projet de réso-  lution présenté par les pays nordiques (18 C/ED/DR.7). Je ne le fais pas uniquement pour des  raisons d'ordre géographique, mais parce que, si les paragraphes 14 et 15 sont maintenus tels  quels, le Canada ne pourra pas voter en faveur du Projet de recommandation ; or je crois que  l'unanimité s'impose sur un texte qui, dans l'ensemble, est progressiste et libéral et correspond  parfaîtement à la philosophie du Canada,
25, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of the United States of America has the floor.
26, Mr, JONES (United States of America) ‘  Thank you, Madam President. The delegation of the United States of America is giving its  general support to the amendment proposed by the Nordic countries. It would, we think, be a  great improvement over a text which would not have been acceptable to us without amendment,  Thank you, Madam President,
27. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of the United States of America, and I give the floor to the delegate of  Poland,
28.1 Mme KRASSOWSKA (Pologne). -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais souligner que ma délégation atlache une grande impor-  tance à ce document, Nous pensons qu'il serait très souhaitable que cette déclaration soit accep-  tée par un voté unanime. Je voudrais rappeler que ce document a été préparé très soigneusement :  le comité d'experts a travaillé beaucoup sur ce texte ; je connais très bien ce travail parce que le  représentant de mon pays y a participé, on a discuté ce texte au fond et, à la commission, il a été  adopté par la majorité des délégués.
28.2 On peut discuter les amendements, mais ces amendements proposés par nos amis des pays  scandinaves changent le sens essentiel. Il s'agit surtout du point 15, qui est formulé d'une ma-  nière claire, essentielle : le sens éducatif est très clair, et je pense que leurs amendements re  sont pas assez clairs. Le sens n'est pas essentiel, et c'est pourquoi ma délégation ne peut pas  accepter, ne peut pas voter pour les amendements proposés par les pays scandinaves, Merci,  Madame la Présidente. ’
29. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Cuba,
(30.1) M, LE RIVEREND (Cuba). - (Traduit de I'espagnol.)  Merci, Madame la Présidente : quelques mots simplement pour dire que nous avons écouté les argu-  ments, que nous n'allons certes pas y ajouter, car ils sont irès précis, qu'il s'agisse de la déléga-  tion du Pérou ou de la délégation de la Guinée ; à juste titre, celle-ci a émis des doutes sérieux sur  le paragraphe 6.
(30.2) Nous estimong que même sf l'amendement a un objectif qui'tofncide, pour l'essentiel, avec le texte  approuvé en Commission, il ne précise pas assez quels sont les problèmes ; et nous croyons que s'il est  possible d'adopter l'ensemble du document A l'unanimité, il est aussi possible de voter paragraphe par pa-  ragraphe avec les explications, les votes pour ou contre, ou les abstentions qui sont nécessaires.
(30.3) Notre délégation est favorable au maintien des paragraphes 14 et 15 tels qu'ils ont été approuvés  en Commission, et nous proposons qu'il soit tenu compte de l'observation de la délégation de la Guinée  relative au paragraphe 6, Merci, Madame la Présidente.
31, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to thé delegate of Italy.
32.1 Mme MASSARUTI (italle). -  Madame la Présidente, la délégation italienne désire, elle aussi, appuyer l'amendement pro-  posé par les délégations nordiques, et ce dans le souci d'assurer un vote unanime autour de ce  projet de recommandation,
32,2' C'ést pourquoi nous souhaiterons lancer un üppel irks amical A la délégation du Pérou pour  qu'elle accepte l'amendement des délégations nordiques qui, comme au délégué de la France, nous  semble répondre à un souci de réalisme pédagogique que nous devons toujours garder présent à  l'esprit. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
33, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of the Netherlands,
34.1 M, STRASSER (Pays-Bas).-  Madame la Présidente, comme d'autres orateurs je voudrais souligner que le texte que nous  avons devant nous est le fruit d'un accord entre experts gouvernementaux, Nous sommes donc  prêts à voter ce texte, avec les amendements proposés par les pays nordiques.
34,2 Autrement, ma délégation aurait le grand regret de ne pouvoir le voter. Je vous remercie,  Madame la Présidente.
35, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Algeria.
36. M. ANNABI (Algérie). -  Madame la Présidente, chaque délégation aurait, je pense, à formuler un amendement sur  chacun des paragraphes de cette recommandation ou presque. Mais, au stade actuel, la chose  n'est pas possible et c'est pourquoi il est souhaitable que l'ensemble de la recommandation soit  voté à l'unanimité. Si toutefois des amendements doivent être apportés, je tiens à souligner que  je partage le point de vue exprimé par le représentant du Pérou en ce qui concerne le maintien du  libellé des articles 14 et 15 et que j'appuie les observations formulées par le délégué de la Guinée  à propos du ‘paragraphe 6. Merci, Madame la Présidente. -
37. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Nigeria,
38, Mr, ALKALI (Nigeria):  Thank you, Madam President, It is not for me now to talk at length, because the delegates  have spoken about the various points contained in this amendment submitted by the Nordic coun-  tries. But we are a bit confused by this play of words, which seems to be regarded very seri-  ously, "Economic and political power" ag expressed in the original paragraph 15 seems to us  to be more appropriate than "economic pressure groups”, The reason why we say this, Madam  President, is: why do we talk of education for rural living? Is economy not a factor in preparing  education? Unless the Nordic countries are prepared to expand on this, I'think the amendment  as it stands is no good, as far as we can see, l agree with the speaker frem Guinea regarding  paragraph 6 also, if the question of amendments is to be taken in that way. As other speakers  have said earlier, Madam President, many people can make amendments in all ‘his paper, but  I do not think we can get the unanimity required, Thank you.
39, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Congo,
40.1 M. CARDORELLE (Congo). -  Madame la Présidente, ma délégation est favorable au maintien des paragraphes 14 et 15 du  texte initial, car le projet d'amendement présenté par les pays nordiques tend simplement à farder  la vérité.
40.2 Nous appuyons également la proposition du représentant de la Guinée. Merci, Madame la  Présidente.
41, The PRESIDENT: --  Thank you, ‘ There are no more speakers on my list, The delegate of Norway has the floor,
42,1 Mr, GARBO (Norway):  Thank you, Madam President, We have listened with attention to the comments made on the  Nordic améndments this morning, 1 should like to remind fellow delegates that what they are  now going to vote upon is not a political resolution, It is an international recommendation; and  the value of that recommendation is dependent upon its being universally accepted,
42,2 If we want these principles to be applied and adhered to {n the different countries of this  world, those countries will have to come to an agreement, to an acceptance of the recommenda-  tion, for they will have to accept and use it as a basis for education in their own countries, That  is why It Is so important that we strive at reaching a consensus,
42,3 Iam very thankful to the delegate of Peru, who indeed had a correct understanding of the  intention of the Nordic group, I do feel too that the delegation of Peru has discovered during this  debate that adoption of the Nordic proposal might have made possible a unanimous vote today. That  is why, at the last instance, I will once more appeal to you to support this amendment in an effort  to reach agreement on a recommendation which we all judge to be so very important, Thank you,  Madam President,
43, The PRESIDENT: .  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Liberia,
44, Mrs. AZANGO (Liberia):  Thank you, Madam President, My delegation supports the amendment proposed by the repre-  sentative of Guinea on paragraph 6, because we feel that there is need to make a firm distinction  between force In the interests of liberation, and force used in oppression and wars of domination -  especially in the second half of the twentieth century, Thank you, Madam President,
45. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Switzerland,
46.1 M. HUMMEL (Suisse). -  Madame la Présidénte, ma délégation est de l'avis qu'une recommandation sur l'éducation  pour 1a compréhension 'intérnationale doit reflêter l'esprit de compréhension internationale ; c'est  pourquoi nous appuyons trda fermement le projèt d'amenderient présenté par les pays nordiques,  en faisant nôtres les arguments avancés par d'autres délégations en sa faveur ; nous prions en  outre la délégation de la Guinée de ne pas insister pour le maintien de son amendement. ’
46,2 Madame la Présidente, si l'amendement des pays nordiques n'était pas adopté et si l'emen-  dement proposé par la Guinée l'était, nous ne serions malheureusement pas en mesure de voter le  texte de la recommandation, Nous le regretterions infinement, parce que nous pensons qu'une  telle recommandation doit être votée à l'unanimité et qu'il serait extrêmement dommage que ce  texte reste lettre morte dans certains pays et ne contribue pas à promouvoir la compréhension  internationale. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
47. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Ukraine.
48, I'-xa 0.C. YEPHOEBPHLIEBA (Y kpanuckas Copercxas Counanucrthieckas Pecny6nuka}:  T-xa IIpeaceAartens. Jlenerauns Ykpauyst noAAepxypaer apryMeHraudo Aeneratos Mepy, Mons-  mH, D'EHHeH, KaCaNmyDCA NONPAROK CeBepHsIX CTPAH. Ha Haw B3rnAA, Gonee NpHEMNEMBMK ABAAOT  CA NyHKTH AOKyMeHTa 18 C/118, 160 nonpankH CEBEPHEIX CTPAH MEHANT COALPXAHHO NYHKTOB, MPH"  HATHX KomuccHeR; ocobeHHo 3TO KtiCaercH nyHKTa 15 nonpapkH, KOTOPpHH B peAakilHd CEBOPHEIX CTpaH  HOCHT OYEHb PpaCIAEBYATHA, HeonpuaenenHufl xapaxtep. Cnacubo,
(48) Mme TCHERNOBRITSEVA (République socialiste soviétique d'Ukraine). - (Traduit du russe.)  Madame la Présidente, la délégation de la République socialiste soviétique d'Ukraine appule les argu-  ments des délégués du Pérou, de la Pologne et de 1a Guinée concernant lesamendements des pays nordiques.  À notre avis, les paragraphes du document 18 C/118 paraissent plus acceptables, carlesamendements des  pays nordiques changent la teneur des paragraphes adoptés en Commission ; cela est particul{èrement vrai  pour le paragraphe 15 de l'amendement qui, dans le texte des pays nordiques, a un caractère très vague  et indéfini. Je vous remercie.
49, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Niger.
50. M, ABDOU (Niger). -  Madame la Présidente, ma délégation approuve les remarques faites par le représentant du  Pérou et par notre camarade le délégué de la Guinée. Elle estime que le texte tel qu'il nous est  soumis est parfaitement clair ; le projet d'amendement présenté par les pays scandinaves vise  tout simplement à le rendre plus confus. Ne l'oublions pas, ce que l'on conçoit bien s'énonce  clairement, et les mots pour le dire arrivent aisément, Merci, Madame la Présidente.
51, The PRESIDENT: - .  Thank you, 1 give the floor to the delegate of China,
52, Mr. KU MING-YUAN (China): (Speech delivered in Chinese, Englishtranslationtaken from  the interpretation) - 1 ; .  Madam President, the Chinese delegation supports the amendment to paragraph 6, moved by  the Guineandelegation, because, in speaking of war and violence, distinction must be made between  just war and unjust war, between revolutionary violence and reactionary violence, It is harmful  and erroneous to talk about "the inadmissibility of war, force and violence" without distinction,  Thank you, Madam President, :
53.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I have no more speakers on my list, Now I put to the vote 18 C/ED/DR, 7 submit-  ted by the Nordic countries,  (A vote was taken by show of hands)
53.2 18 C/ED/DR. 7hasheen rejected (37 votes.in favour, 39 against, 17 abstentions). Now I  ask the Secretary to read the amendment submitted by the delegate of Guinea,
54, Le SECRETAIRE. -  Madame la Présidente, l'amendement présenté par la délégation de la Guinée concerne le  paragraphe 6 du projet de recommandation, Le début de ce paragraphe amendé par la délégation  de Guinée ge ltrait comme suit : "L'éducation devrait mettre l'accent sur l'inadmissibilité du re-  cours À la guerre d'expansion, d'agression et de domination, à la force et à la violence de rêpres-  sion, ... ...'" le reste du paragraphe demeurant inchangé. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
55,1 The PRESIDENT: .  I put to the vote the amendment submitted by Guinea,  (A vote was taken by show of hands)
55,2 The amendment has been adopted by 81 votes to 11, with 20 abstentions,
55.3 Now I put to the vote the Draft Recommendation concerning éducation for international under-  standing, co-operation and peace and education relating to human rights and fundamental freedoms.  The delegate of France has the floor.
56. M, GUITON (France).-  Madame la Présidente,-il nous paraît impensable que la Conférence générale puisse être appe-  lée à se prononcer, dans les conditions actuelles, sur un texte comme celui qui nous est soumis.  Cela iraît même, nous semble-t-il, à l'encontre des intérêts de l'Unesco. La d&légation française  propose donc que le débat soit ajourné jusqu'à ce que vous ayez pu, Madame la Présidente, obtenir  par un moyen ou par un autre, que l'on arrive à un accord, Je vous remercie,
57, The PRESIDENT:  I would like to ask the delegate of France whether he has made a formal motion in accordance  with Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure, which reads as follows: "During the discussion of any  question, a Member State or Associate Member present may move adjournment of the debate on  the item under discussion, Any such motion shall have precedence. In addition to the proposer  of the motion, one speaker may speak in favour of, and one against, the motion",
58. M. GUITON (France). -  Pour répondre A cette question, je précise, Madame la Présidente, que c'est bien en m'inspi-  rant de l'article 75 du Reglèment intérieur que j'ai demandé l'ajournement du débat.
59, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Consequently one speaker may speak in favour and one against, Who wants to  speak in favour? The Federal Republic of Germany.
60. Mr. BLANKENHORN (Federal Republic of Germany):  Thank you, Madam President. I am for the French proposition,
61, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate o° Peru,
(62.1) M, CHIAPPO (Pérou). - (Tradnit de 1'espagnol.)  Madame la Présidente, conformément au règlement que vous avez eu l'amabilité de lire, j'ai demandé  la parole pour m'opposer à l'ajournement du vote sur ce document.
(62.2) La raison est la suivante : ce document a été étudié par une commission d'experts, présidée par  M, l'Ambassadeur Cuevas Cancino. Il a été longuement étudi&, et nous avons participé avec beaucoup  d'enthousiasme, beaucoup de ferveur, à l'élaboration du document issu de la Commission d'experts. D  était bon, mais susceptible d'être amélioré. A la Commission I (Education), on l'a examiné, on en a dé-  battu assez longuerr.ent et on l'a encore perfectionné. Maintenant avec l'amendement proposé par la Répu-  blique de Guinée on lui a apporté encore une amélioration. En quoi consiste-t-elle ?
(62.3) Tout simplement, on a exprimé en termes parfaitement clairs et nets qu'il existe une violence de  domination et d'agression et qu'il existe une violence révolutionnaire, qui est totalement distincte, et nous  devons apprendre aux nouvelles générations à faire cette distinction, Si l’on comdamnait la violence ainsi,  sans distinction, on condamnerait nos pays à 1a passivité, au conformisme, au statu quo. L'apport de la  République de Guinée est donc précieux, Je ne m'explique pas cornment des pays peuvent recommander  une paix et un conformisme qui défigurent l'image de la paix. Je pense, Madame la Présidente, que nous  devons poursuivre et parvenir à 1'approbation’de ce document maintenant, pour qu'il soit mis en oeuvre  dès que possible.
(62.4) On dit, Madame la Présidente, qu'il y a des pays qui n'appliqueräient pas la récommandation. Quels  sont-ils ? Ce sont des pays qui ne veulent pas que leur peuple, leurs élèves et les générations nouvelles  sachent qu'il existe des groupes monopolistiques de pouvoir qui pratiquent l'exploitation et fomentent la  guerre, que pour parvenir à la compréhension internationale il faut liquider les contradictions d'une struc-  ture dominatrice, qu'il y a des guerres de libération et qu'il y a aussi des guerres criminelles, déclenchées  pour l'asservissement d'autres peuples, C'est pourquoi, Madame la Présidente, Je crois que nous pouvons,  sinon parvenir à l'unanimité, du moins avoir une majorité écrasante, celle de tous les pays qui désirent  la paix et dénoncent la guerre violente, d'agression et de domination.
(62.5) Voici donc venu, Madame la Présidente, le moment le plus opportun pour procéder au vote ; sf le  document n'obtient pas l'unanimité, il y aura une majorité très significative, peut-tire beaucoup plus signi-  ficative que l'unanimité. Je vous remercie.
63.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Now I put to the vote the motion submitted by the delegate of France for adjourn-  ing the debate,  (A vote was taken by show of hands)
63,2 The motion has been rejected (26 votes in favour, 59 against, 8 abstentions),
63.3 Now I put to the vote the Draft Recommendation concerning education for international under-  standing, co-operation and peace and education relating to human rights and fundamental freedoms  as amended by the delegate of Guinea,  (A vote was taken by show of hands)
63.4 The Draft Recommendation has been adopted by 76 votes to 5, with 15 abstentions.
63.5 Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the adoption of the report of Commission I. I  should like to express my thanks and appreciation to Dr, Aklilu Habte, the Chairman of Commis-  sion I, and to the Rapporteur of the Commission, for the excellent jobs they have doné, I think
284   that the fact that the Plenary was able to adopt the report of the Commission in spité of certain  difficulties, rather quickly and smoothly, proves the very thorough and cunsclentious work of  Commission I. I give the floor to the delegate of Mexico.
(64.1) M. CUEVAS CANCINO (Mexique), - (Traduit de l'espagnol.)  Madame la Présidente, j'ai demandé la parole pour expliquer mon abstention, Une recommandation  qui pour la Conférence de l'Unesco est un effort positif vers la compréhension entre les peuples, une re-  commandation qui a trait, comme l'indique son titre, à l'éducation pour la compréhension, 1a coopération  et la paix internationales, n'a'pas de sens si elle n'est pas approuvée à l'unanimité. Cette unanimité avait  été obtenue au Comité des experts gouvernementaux composé de représentants de 62 Etats rnembres ; et  ce vote unanime avait été acquis avec la participation des représentants de la Guinée et du Pérou, ll y  avait donc un consensus annonçant l'unanimité nécessaire pour permettreàl'Unesco d'exercer ses fonctions.
(64.2) Naturellement, on peut toujours améliorer un instrument et une résolution, p.afs la diplomatie - et  la diplomatie p irlementaire ne fait pas exception - consiste à avancer le plus loin possible en parlant de  façon construc. ive, L'adoption d'une résolution à la majorité, avec des abstentions, des votes négatifs,  et une grande p \rtie des délégués présents qui s'abstiennent, n'est pas de nature à améliorer les objectifs  recherchés et “és instruments dont l'Unesco dispose pour promouvoir la paix et la compréhension dans le  domat.ie de i'/duration. Merci, Madame la Présidente,
65. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Mexico. I give the floor to the delegate of Chile.
(66.1) M. BERGURO (Chil). = (‘traduit de l'espagnol.)  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais expliquer pour quoi j'ai voté en faveur de la recommandation sur
1'éducation pour la compréhension internationale.
(66.2) Nous avons émis un vote favorable malgré les réserves que nous avons à l'égard de certains para-  graphes du projet et en particulier, bien que le groupe d'experts gouvernementaux et la Conférence aient  cru nécessaire de donner de l'éducation une définition «çui ne nous paraît ni claire, rif précise, ni de nature  à favoriser la compréhension internationale.
(66.3) C'est dans le mème esprit qué nous avons appuyé l'amendement norvégien et que nous avons désap-  prouvé cértains termes de la proposition du Pérou. Cenendant, ce projet de recommandation ne contient  pas de concept condamnable; il n'y a pas dans ce texte qui est maintenant une recommandation, puisque la  Conférence l'a approuvé, d'éléments allant réellement À l'encontre de la compréhension internationale,  Aussi, quoique regreftant qu'il n'ait pu être amélioré au point d'obtenir l'unanimité, nous avons voté en  faveur de ce texte pensant qu'il constituerait un fnstrument utile. Merci, Madame la Présidente.
67, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Chile and I give the floor to the delegate of Peru,
(68) M. CHIAPPO (Pérou), - (Traduit de l'espagnol.)  Madame la Présidente, deux mots seulement pour expliquer mon vote, Nous nous sommes efforcés  d'atteindre l'unanimité et 1a délégation du Pérou a voté pour l'ensemble de la résolution car elle a estimé  que ce n'était pas le moment de récriminer mals au contraire d'appuyer ce document qui dénote une volonté  majoritaire ct, surtout, qui fllusire les contradictions existartes ; ce document et cette session sont en  quelque sorte pour nous-mêmes une forme d'éducat! x permanente, d'éducation des adulten. Merci, Ma-  dame la Présidente,
69, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of the United Kingdom has the floor.
70.1 Mr, COZENS (United Kingdom):  Thank you, Madam President, 1 should like to explain my vote. I supported the Nordic  amendments. I abstained on the Guinean amendment, but I voted on behalf of my country for the  final document,
70,2 We in the United Kingdom look on this as a professional matter, The meeting which took  place last May, at which a fellow countryman of mine had the privilege of being Rapporteur, was  a meeting of professionals, It is in the professional, not the political sense, that my country  looks forward to doing its best to implement this instrument, and for this reason, the professional  reason, my country voted for it. Thank you, Madam.
71. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. The delegate of Portugal has the floor.
72. Mme PINTO (Portugal), -  Madame la Présidente, la position de notre délégation est identique à celle de la délégation du  Royaume-Uni. Nous avons voté en faveur de l'amendement de la Norvège; nous nous sommes abs-  tenus sur la proposition d'amendement de la Guinée ; et nous avons voté en faveur du texte final  parce que nous avons pour principe de ne rien faire qui puisse porter atteinte à l'esprit élevé dans  lequel doivent se dérouler nos travaux.
73.1 The PRESIDENT": ,  I thank the delegate of Portugal. As there are no other speakers on the subject, I consider  that we have completed the adoption of the report and I thank once again Dr. Aklilu Habte for the  excellent work the Commission has carried out under his leadership,
73.2 Ladies and gentlemen, you know that we are much behind schedule, Therefore, with your  permission, I would like to propose suspending the meeting for ten minutes and ther u-king up the  report of the Administrative Commission,  (The meeting was suspended at 12,5 p.m. and resumed at 12,25 p,m.)  REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION / RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION  ADMINISTRATIVE / INFORME DE LA COMISION ADMINISTRATIVA /  HOKJAN AIMHEHCTPATHBHOÏH KOMHCCHH / CARS IR TPN 1] ENT
74. The PRESIDENT:  The meeting is called to order, Our business is now to adopt the report of the Administrative  Commission. | give the floor to the Chairman of the Administrative Commission, Senator Wynter.
15,1 Mr. WYNTER (Jamaica) (Chairman of the Administrative Commission):  Thank you, Madam President, 1 should like tô'say that the Commission held 20 meetings,  which was four more than planned. But ile members of the Commission would maintain that it  vas not their slowness in tackling the agenda ftems which made these meetings necessary, but it  was perhaps an over-optimistic estimate of the time the Commission would need to examine very  weighty subjects, And one complication which perhaps had not been foreseen when planning the  meetings was the fact thet the Director-General would be embracing the budget proposals proposed  by the Executive Board, embracing them as his own, and would therefore have to present to the  Commission new proposals for reducing à number of items before it could consider them. This  naturally added to the time required by the Commission,
75,2 Madam President, besides the Chairman, the officers elected were: Mr, Baugniet from  Belgium, Mr. Gardner Davies from Australia, and Mr, Kochubey from the Ukraine as Vice-
286   Chairmen, and the Rapporteur was Mr, Doudou Diene of Senegal; and I should like to express my 36  gratitude to them for the excellent co-operation which they gave to the Commission's Bureau,
15,3 The Commission also took part In a joint meeting with Commission V, which took place this  morning. As a consequence the appropriation resolution is being prepared with all its figures, and  that part of it will be discussed on Thursday, Madam President, unless, of course, you bring it  forward to Wednesday, because you seem to be going ahead of time now.
75,4 Madam President, at the request of the Conference, the Commission examined, as a priority,  item 3 of the agenda - Communications received from Member States Invoking the provisions of  Article IV C, paragraph 8 (c) of the Constitution, The Commission, through its Vice-Chairman,  Mr, Kochubey, has nlready reported to the General Conference in Part I of its report, and the  Conference adopted the recommendation made by the Commission, Hence, Madam President,  document 18 C/115, which is the document before us now, refers very briefly to Part I, in sum-  mary form, and then the rest of the document deals with Parts 11 to IV. The other matters exa-  mined By the Commission are reported in thers and I have the honour to present this document to  the plenary through you, Madam President, - ‘
75.5 The recommendations, the draft resolutions which are recommended by the Commission for  adoption by the General Conference, are contained in the Annex to document 18 C/115 (18 C/115,  Parts II-IV - Annex-Recommendations)
75,6 Madam President, I referred a while ago to the Vice-Chairman and to the Rapporteur. May  I also, on Lehalf of the Commission, express our gratitude publicly and officially, to the Assistant  Director-General for Administratior,' and all his colleagues, who helped us so much in our de-  liberations, I should also like to thark the former Director-General, Mr, Maheu, and the Deputy  Director-General, Mr, Fobes, who :ame to us from time to time to assist our deliberations on  matters of great sensitivity and importance, We should also like to thank, Madam President, the  members of the Secretarial staff who gave us such sterling secretarial assistance, a< well as the  documentation clerks, and, of course, very importantly, the interpreters who showed their ex-  pertise in the technical language which administrators tend to use,
75,7 And then, Madam President, I should like, on behalf of the Bureau, to express our thanks  to the delegates who showed such interest in the deliberations of the Commission and who heiped  to make the work of the Commission go 80 smoothly, so harmoniously and even dare to say, so  happily.
75.8 Now, Madam President, may I suggest that for our procedure we look at the resolutions and  recommendatione in the Annex, And then perhaps at the end, if those have been adopted, I would  simply ask members of the plenary to note the particular budget provisions in the parts of the  report before us: Parts I, II, IV, V, VI and VIL
75.9 Finally, Madam President, I would like to point out one or two slight corrections to the  report, and one or two other matters of substance, First, 1 should like to draw your attention,  Madam President, to Part II of the report, paragraph 73, on page 13 of the English version, The  ninth vote, dealing with the amendment of the delegate of Yugoslavia to paragraph 8 should be  corrected to read .., was adopted by 19 votes to 10, with 11 abstentions". ‘The reason for the  error, Madam President, is probably that for the first time in our short history we had a tied  vote, and therefore we developed a tied-vote complex.
75,10 The second correction, Madam President, is in Part III, and this refers to the English  version only, In Part III page 1, something seems to have gone awry in the English version:  members will see that paragraphs 3 and 4 are similar, Something went wrong, ard I would be  very grateful if you will allow the Secretary of our Commission to indicate the corrected version  at this stage,
16, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the Secretary of the Administrative Comsmission,
77. Mr. VENNING (Secretary of the Administrative Commission):  Thank you, Madam President. The correct text for paragraph 3 in Part IH in the English  version is as follows: "In the ensuing discussions the view was expressed that the Commission  should undertake a critical examination of any new posts proposed in these parts of the Budget  since staff costs constituted the major portion of the Budget of the Organization, and any savings  which might derive from a reduction should be used to strengthen programme operations, particu-  larly in developing countries". We then follow with the present second sentence: “In particular,  one member of the Commission" and we go on to the end, Thank you, Mudam President.
78. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, 1 give the floor to the Chairman of the Administrative Commission to continue  his presentation of the report.
79.1 Mr. WYNTER (Jamaleca) (Chairman of the Administrative Commission):  Thank you, Madam President. I should like finally to draw your attention to three points in
287   the resolutions in the Annex. The first relates to Part III, ‘paragraph 7 referring to iter 18,  Madam President, I am aware that item 18 is on the agenda, I beliéve, for Thursday, It deals  with the adoption of the appropriation resolution, but what is on the agenda, Madam President,  appears to be the resolution itself, In our Annex, the recommendation on item 18 deals with an  option which the Commission thought was necessary in the light of the discussions on the budget  ceiling, And, Madam President, I am suggesting that the resolution which is set ouf in Annex-  Recommendations Part III, and refers to Item 18 should be taken today, because it deals with an  amendment of the Financial Regulations,
79,2 Then regarding the second point I should like to draw your attention to Part IV, item 43,3,  Madam Presidént, simply for information: the Commission, in adopting this resolution, followed  the precedent established by the Commission at the seventeenth session when it adopted a clause,  similar to the fifth clause in this resolution, by a two-thirds majority,
79.3 Madam President, the third and final reference is again to Part IV, and this is in connexion  with item 53, Headquarters premises - extended medium-term solution, Clause 16 of this long  resolution was adopted by the Commission by a two-thirds majority in accordance with Rule 81, 2  {j) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference,
79,4 These are all the points I had to inform you of, Madam President, and I am pleased to pre-  sent this report to you, and to ask you to ask the plenary to accept the recommendations and to  take note of the report, Thank you, Madam President,
80,1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of the Administrative Commission for his presentation of the report.
80,2 As you see, this report, like the previous one, consists of two parts, The first part is the  narrative part, which only requires to be taken note of, In the absence of objections, I shall con-  sider that the Conference has taken note of the narrative part, We shall now proceed to take  one by one the recommendations contained in document 18 C/115, Parts II-IV, Annex-Recommendations  Item 37 - APPLICATION TO UNESCO OF THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE UNITED  NATIONS AD HOC COMMITTEE OF EXPERTS TO EXAMINE THE FINANCES  OF THE UNITED NATIONS AND THE SPECIALIZED AGENCIES
80.3 The Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt the draft  resolution contained under this heading, It is adopted unanimously,  Item 38 - MEASURES TO MAKE THE EXECUTION OF UNESCO'S PROGRAMME  MORE EFFECTIVE
80.4 The Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt the draft  resolution appearing under this heading. It is adopted unanimously,  Item 45 - STAFF REGULATIONS
80,5 The Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolution  appearing under this heading. It is adopted unanimously.  Item 47 - INTERNATIONAL CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
80,6 The Commission decided unanimously to recommend that the General Conference adopt the  resolution appearing under this heading, It is adopted unanimously.  Item 49 - PROVISION TO MEMBER STATES OF EXECUTIVE PERSONNEL (UNESCOPAS)
80.7 The Commission decided unanimously to recommend that the General Conference adopt the  resolution appearing under this heading, It is adopted unanimously,  Item 48.1 - GENERAL LONG-TERM PLAN FOR THE SELECTION AND RENEWAL  OF THE STAFF
80,8 The Commission recommended unanimously that the General Conference adopt the resolution  appearing under this heading, It is adopted unanimously.  Item 48.2 - LONG-TERM RECRUITMENT PLAN
80.9 By 46 votes to none, with 3 abstentions, the Commission recommended that the General  Conference adopt the draft resolution appearing under this heading. It is adopted.  Item 48.3 - GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF STAFF
80.10 The Commission recommended by 35 votes to none, with 6 abstentions, that the General  Conference adopt the resolution appearing under this heading.
80,11 The delegate of Venezuela has the floor, 36
(81) Mile SANTANA (Venezuela), - (Traduit de l'espagnol, )  Madame la Présidente, la délégation du Venezucla voudrait simplement savoir comment le Secrétariat  entend appliquer le paragraphe 6 du point 48,3 qui se retrouve au paragraphe (c) du texte de la résolution.  Merci, Madame la Présidente.
82, The PRESIDENT: ;  Thank you, and I give the floor to the Doputy Director-General,
83,1 Mr, FOBES (Deputy Director-General):  Madam President, in the view of the Director-General, paragraph 6 of this draft resolution  simply expresses one of the motivations underlying the invitations for action addressed to the  Director-General, Those invitations for his action appear in paragraphs 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11. It  is on those paragraphs, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11, that the Director-General will take the action reques-  ted, bearing in mind that the General Conference acted, as I say, upon certain motivations or  reasoning in arriving at those invitations. He will also, of course, apply and adhere to the basic  conatitutional provisions concerning the appointment of staff which are found in Article VI, para-  graph 4, of the Constitution. So much for the Interpretation of Article VI, Madam President.
83.2 In paragraph 7 (c}, the Director-General is invited to submit detailed information on the  distribution of posts in the Professional category and above, He would find no difficulty in pro-  viding liberally all of the statistics on the distribution of staff in the posts according to their  national origin, and grouping those national origins by region.
84, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Does anybody request that a vote should be taken on this draft resolution? The  delegate of the United States has the floor,
85, Mr, MAXIM (United States of America):  Thank you, Madam President, This is a very important resolution, The delegate of Venezuela  raised one point that is of some interest to us with regard to paragraph 6, I should think it appro-  priate, therefore, to have a vote on the resolution, and a separate vote on paragraph 6,
86,1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 1 shall therefore first put to the vote paragraph 6 of the draft resolution.  (A vote was taken by show of hands)
86,2 Paragraph 6 has been adopted by 69 votes to 1, with 14 abstentions.
86.3 I now put to the vote the draft resolution as a whole.  (A vote was taken by show of hands)
86,4 The draft resolution has been adopted by 85 votes to none, with 7 abstentions,  Item 48.4 - GRANTING OF INDETERMINATE APPOINTMENTS TO PROFESSIONAL  STAFF
86.5 By 28 votes to 8, with 6 abstentions, the Commission recommended that the General Confer-  ence adopt the resolution appearing under this heading.
86.6 1 put to the vote the resolution.  (A vote was taken by show of hands)
86.7 The resolution has been adopted by 63 votes to 10, with 7 abstentions.  Hem 46.1 - SALARIES, ALLOWANCES AND OTHER BENEFITS OF STAFF:  PROFESSIONAL CATEGORY AND ABOVE
86,8 The Commission recommended by 34 votes to 2, with 11 abstentions, that the General Con-  ference adopt the resolution under this heading,
86.9 I put this resolution to the vote,  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
86,10 The resolution has been adopted by 79 votes to 1, with 2 abstentions.
36 86,11 The delegate of the United States of America has the floor,
87. Mr, MAXIM (United States of America):  Thank you, Madam President, The United States' vote against this resolution in no way ex-  presses opposition to the idea of equitable remuneration for professional category personnel, It  does however, reflect our serious opposition to the present bases of salary calculation for the  professional category of personnel, and our bellef that these are well In excess of the norms pre-  vailing in comparable national civil services, including our own, Thank you, Madam President,
88.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you,  Item 46.2 - SALARIES, ALLOWANCES AND OTHER BENEFITS OF STAFF:  GENERAL SERVICE STAFF
88,2 The Commission recommended by 40 votes to none, with 15 abstentions, that the General  Conference adopt the resolution appearing under this heading,
88.3 I put to the vote the resolution.  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
88,4 The resolution has heen adopted by 69 votes to none, with 12 abstentions.  Item 50.1 - UNITED NATIONS JOINT STAFF PENSION FUND: REPORT BY THE  DIRECTOR-GENERAL
88,5 The Commission recommended by 47 votes to none, with 1 abstention, that the General  Conference adopt the resolution appearing under this heading, It is adopted,  Item 50.2 - PENSION RIGHTS: LIABILITY OF THE ORGANIZATION REGARDING  SERVICE PERFORMED DURING THE YEARS 1947-1950
88.6 The Commission recommended by 29 votes to 7, with 9 abstentions, that the General Con-  ference adopt the draft resolution under this heading,
88.7 1 put to the vote the draft resolution.  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
88.8 The draft resolution has been adopted by 76 votes to 1, with 5 abstentions.
88.9 The Chairman of the Commission wishes to speak. I give him the floor.
89.1 Mr. WYNTER (Jamaica) (Chairman of the Administrative Commission):  Madam President, 1 should like, after the vote, to draw the attention of members of the  plenary to paragraphs 103 to 115 of Part II of the report itself, which has been noted, and in  particular to note that the Chalrman, on behalf of the Commission, had expressed the views of  the members of the Commission to the members of staff, indicating the attitude of mind with  which the former approached this very sensitive and delicate question.
89,2 One of the points for study, Madam President, would be, for example, the report which  members of the Commission, some members, have received as to the uncertainty whether some  of the members of staff concerned had really been givon a choice or not, or whether the choice  had not been a choice looked at in retrospect, But this is one of the matters that will be studied  before the question is taken at the next session, Thank you, Madam President.
90,1 The PRESIDENT:  ‘Thank you.  Item 51 - UNESCO STAFF PENSION COMMITTEE: ELECTION OF REPRESENTATIVES  OF MEMBER STATES FOR 1975-1976
90,2 The Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolu-  tion shown under this heading, It is unanimously adopted,
90,3 Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to slop at this juncture because we have reiched a new  part, Part III, in the report. We shall continue our deliberations in the afternoon. The meeting  is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 1.00 p.m,  La séance est levée à 13 h, 00  Se levanta la sesién a las 13,00