Thirty-seventh plenary meeting a
19 November 1974 at 3,25 p.m.  President; Mra. JOBORU (Hungary)  “later: Mr. HIRONAGA (Japan)  ‘Trente-septième séatice plénière
19 novembre 1974, à 15 h, 25  Présidente : Mme JOBORU (Hongrie)  puis ; M, HIRONAGA (Japon)  Trigesimoséptima sesion. plenaria
1.1 The PRESIDENT: .  The meeting is called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, we proceed now to Part III of the  report of the Administrative Commission. We are going to take one by one the recommendations  contained in the Annex (18 C/115, Part III - Annex-Recommendations).  Item 17.1 - Examination of the methods of budgeting and budget estimates
1.2 The Commission recommended by 48 votes to 1, with 3 abstentions, that the General Confer-  ence adopt the resolution. I pul the resolution to the vote.  (A vote was taken by show of hands)
1.3 The resolution is adopted without opposition, with 1 abstention.  Item 41.1 - Progressive use of Chinese as a working languaje of the General Conference and  Executive Board
1.4 The Commission unanimously recommended to the General Conference the adoption of this  resolution, Aré you ready to adopt it? Adopted unanimously.  Item 41,2 - Use of Arabic as a working language of the Executive Board
1.5 The Commission unanimously recommended the adoption by the General Conference of this  resolution, Are you ready to adopt {t? Adopted unanimously,
1.6 The delegate of the United States haa the floor.
2. Mr. MAXIM (United States of America):  Thank you, Madam President. The United States was pleased to support items 41.1 end 41.2  both in Commission and at previous sessions of the Executive Board, for we welcome the fuller  utilization of both of these great and rich languages. Nevertheless, vie also eontinue to feel that  Unesco, as well as other organizations throughout the United Nations syelem, should give very  serious consideration to the concept of nations paying for languages on basis of usage. That,  of course, extends to the United States’ use of English, Thank you, Madam President.
37 3.1 The PRESIDENT: . So  Thank you,  We'procéedi - : ; ,Ç  stem 17, 4 - Part III - General administration and programme supporting services:  Chapter 3 - Bureau of Management and Data Processing
35 yotes to 11, with 1 abstention, that the ‘General Con-  o the vote.  []
3.2 The Commission recommended by  ference adopt this resolution, | put it {  (A vote was taken by show of hands)
3.3 The resolution has been adopted by 87 votes to 9, with no abstentions,  Item 17.5 - Part IV - Publicatioie, Cdnferences, Languages and Documénts Services
3.4 The Commission unanimously recommended the adoption by the General Conference of this  resolution, Are you ready to adopt it unanfmoisly? Adopted,  Paragraph 6 of document 18 C/115, Part III, Annex-Recommendations  EE 2° A EL 18 : . CL à '
3.5 The Commission unanimously recommended the adoption of this resolution by the General  Conference, Are you ready to adopt {t? Adopted unanimously,  i  Item 18 - Adoption of the Appropriation Resolution for 1976-1976
3.6 The Commission recommended by 34 voted to none, with $ abateijtions, that the General  Conference adopt the resolution in paragraph 7 of document 13 C/115, Part III, Annex-  Recommendations. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to draw your attention to the fact that this reso-  lution is a formal amendment to the existing Financial Regulations, I now put it to the vote. Does  anybody wish to speak on this subject? The delegate of the Unitéd States,
4, Mr, MAXIM (United States of America):  Thank you, Madam President. In view of the fact that there were abstentions which normally  reflect certain reservations, perhaps it would be wise to put this question to a vote, Thank you,
5.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I put the resolution to the vote.  (A vote vias taken by show of hands)
5,2 The resolution has been adopted unanimously by 63 votes to none, with 13 abstentions.
5.3 Now we proceed to Part IV,  Item 42.1 - Report of the Exteraial Auditor, Financial Report of the Director-General on the  accounts of Unesco for the two-year financial peri¢d ended on 31 December 1972
5.4 The Commission recommended unanimously that the General Conference adopt the resolution,  Are you ready to adopt it? It is adopted unanimously.  Paragraph 2, item 42.2 - Auditor's report and Financial Report of the Director-General and  financial statements in respect of the United Nations Development Programme as  at 31 December 1972
5.5 The Commission recommended tnanimously that the General Conference adopt the resolution,  Are you ready to adopt it? It is adopted unanimously.  Item 42. 3 - Auditor's report and Financial Report of the Director-General in respect of the interim  accounts of Unesco closed on 31 December 1973 for the two-year financial period  ended 31 December 1974
5.6 The Commission recommended unanimously that the General Conference adopt the resolution.  Are you ready to adopt it? It is adopted unanimously,  Paragraph 4, item 42.4 - Report of the External Auditor, Financial Report of the Director-  General and financial statements relating to the United Natlons Development Pro-  gramme as at 31 December 1973
5.7 The Commission recommended unanimously that the General Conference adopt this resolution.  Are you ready to adopt it? Adopted unanimously.  Item 43.1 - Contributions of Member States - Scale of Assensment
5,8 The delegate of the Netherlands has the floor.
6.1- Mr, BROUWERS (Netherlands): .  Thank you, Madam President, The Netherlands delegation would like to make a brief state-  ment with regard to item 43,1. During the debate in the Administrative: Commission on the item  concerning the scale of assessment, my delegation expressed doubts as to the 12ethods of calcula-  ting the scale as applied by the Secretariat, Consequently my delegation, among other delegations,  requested detailed information on the methods of computing practised by the Secretariat. At the  same time the Netherlands delegation did not vote in favout of the draft resolution which is now  before the plenary.
6.2 Following our request and that of some other delegations, we received document
18 C/ADM/INF. 6, While thanking the Secretariat for the instructive work done, my delegation  regrets having to inform the Conference that we have not been convinced by the arguments put  forward by the Secretariat in the additional material furnished. A written statement explaining  our doubts has been sent to the Secretariat, so that my delegation refrains from going into details  before the Conference.
6.3 I only wish to mention that our main difficulty is that the. Secretariat apparently did not take  into account resolution 2961 of the 27th session of the General Assembly of thé United Nations  which, in paragraph 2 (¢), reads as follows: "The percentage contribution of Member States shall  not in any case in the United Nations, the Specialized Agencles or the International Atomic Energy  Agency be increased as a consequence of the present resolution". We therefore would like to  stress again that further advice from the United Nations Committee on Contributions is urgently  needed.
6.4 For the above reasons and on e matter of principle, my delegation finds itself not In a posi-  tion to support the draft before us. Thank you, Madam President.
7. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Japan.
8. Mr, IKEBE (Japan):  Madam President, like the previous speaker, my delegation regrets that the information pro-  vided and the arguments put forth by the Secretariat have failed to dispel the doubt which my  delegation had as to whether the principles embodied in the relevant United Nations General  Assombly resolutions, particularly resolution 2961B (XXVII) have been correctly applied in com-  puting the probable scale of assessment for 1976-1976 contained in document 18 C/50 Addendum,  For this reason my delegation is unable to support the draft resolution. Thank you, Madam  President,
9. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 1 give the floor to the delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany.
10. Mr, BLANKENHORN (Federal Republic of Germany):  Thank you, Madam President. My delegation associates itself with what the previous speaker  has sald. Thank you, Madam.
11.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Any other speaker? I put to the vote the resolution under item 43. 1  (A vote was taken by show of hands)
11.2 The resolution is adopted by 79 votes to none, with 11 abstentions.  Item 43.2 - Contributioris of Member States - Currency of Contributions
11,3 The Commission recommended unanimously that the General Conference adopt the resolution,  Are you ready to adopt 14? Adopted unanimously.  Item 43. 3 - Contributions of Member States - collection of contributions
11,4 By a roll-call vote of 22 to 4, with 24 abstentions, hence by the two-thirds majority required,  the Commission Fetonmimended that the General Conference adopt the resolution, Before putting  the resolution té the Vote, 1 give the floor to the Chairman of the Administrative Commission for  a téchnical explanation,
12,1 Mr, WYNTER (Jamaica) (Chairman of the Administrative Commission):  Madam President, I should just like to draw thé attention of delegates to the fact that'at the  seventeenth sessioil, when this matter came before the pledary from the Commission, it came in  effect, in two parté, One was the question being put to the pleriary as t6 what to do about certain  Member States which were declared to be in arrears. The recommendation from the Commission  was brought té thé plenary. Madam Président, and this particular point, the question of what  to do with the arrears of particular Member States, came up in the followiifg terms: "decides =:  not‘to'apply Firencial Regulation 5.7, in 86 far as'payments from thé above-mentioned Member  States are conserned, ad that any such paymerits as may bé received from them shall be éredited
37 first to the Working Capital Fund, and then to contributions due in respect to the relevant finkacial  period”; Madam President; that was put to the plenary, and on a ruling, it was put to à siraple  majority, + And it was adopted.
12,2 What the Commission had before it at this session, on the other hand, was not the’ principle  of what to do with the arrears of these particular Member States, but what to do with the fact  that the arrears had been written off by decision'of the Conferencè. They still were on the books,  however, because they had not been liquidated by means of using surpluses. So what the Com-  mission had to do was to consider how to liquidate that part of the arrears which had not been  liquidated by a surplus.
12,3 The Commission did not discuss the merits or demerits of the original decision by the 1972  Conference, because it was not in the ambit or the powers of a commission to review a decision  taken by the General Conference, So what the Commission did, Madam President, was to propose  that the Conference now act ai it did at the seventeenth session of the General Conference, After  having decided that the ‘arrears should be written off, in other words not to apply Regulation 5, 7,  the 1972 Conference then decided to suspend until this session the application of two separate  Articles, 4.3 and 4, 4, of the ‘Financial Regulations. So the present Commission, after discussion  realized that in order to liquidate the arrears, it would have to propose that these same two Articles,
4, 3 and 4. 4, should be suspended beyond the eighteenth session,
12,4 Madam President, I remember that the decision to suspend \ was taken by the plenary last  time on a two-thirds majority. Therefore it was the view of the Commission that the suspending  of articles according to Rule 81 II (g) of the Rules of Procedure should again be done by a two-  thirds majority, That is all I wish to explain, Madam President: we are not at this time proposing  any non-application, but we art proposing a suspension of two articles, Thank you, Madam,
13. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of the Commission, and I give the floor to the delegate of the United  States.
14.1 Mr. MAXIM (United States of America);  Thank you, Madam President, The views of the United States Government on this very im-  portant question are set out in some detail in paragraph 44 of Part IV, page 7, of document 18 C/115.  At this point, Madam President, I would draw the delegates’ attention to Articles 4, 3 and 4. 4 of  the Financial Regulations, which in essence provide for the reimbursement to Member States of  surpluses at the end of a twelve-month period, when an appropriation has not been spent,
14,2 A special account created at the seventeenth session of the General Conference, in our view  improperly, took those funds end put them apart to defray or to absorb certain States’ arrears,
1 do not wish at this point to go into'a lengthy reopening of our view of what happened at the seven-  teenth session of the General Conference. Suffice it to say that through the fiction that the  Financial Regulations were being not applied - a non-application of the regulation as opposed to a  à suspension - this special account was created by a simple majority vote rather than a two-thirds  majority vote, as is normally required under Rule 81.2 of the Rules of Procedure and Article 14,3  of the Financial Regulations,
14,3 Madam President, .I would draw the attention of Member States to the fact that perpetuation  of aa irregular practice does not somehow justify it. We were, are, and will continue to be opposed  to this special account on the sole basis that it represents in our view, an irregular and, in effect,  illegal violation of the Organization's Financial Regulations. I would appeal to like-minded dele-  zations to support us in this view, which, I would repeat, is not motivated by any other çonsidera-  tion than a question of legal propriety with respect to the Financial Regulations of the Organization,  and I am reassured to hear that the vote at this session will be decided by a two-thirds majority.  To conclude, Madam President, I would like to formally move for a roll-call vote on this question.  Thank you.
15. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Does anybody else wish to speak on this subject? The delegate of the Ukraine  has the floor.  i a I A - i A ' . oa
16.1 T-# 0H, KOYYBEX (Yxpansoxan Cosorcxan CouxanketHyeckaa Peg ny6anxa):  . Bnaroxapn sac, Ton, lipaacenarens, Topapum Mpexceñatens, Tocnona AejleratTu, AAMHHUCTPA-  THBHGA KOMHCCHAH NOAABIADUIM 60/1bWKHCTBOM PO/NOCOB MNPHHANA pesonpiikHp, KOTOPas celiac npea-  NaraeTox Ha yTBepxAaeHHe nnoHyMa p nyHKTe 7, Sl nonpomy BHMMATENLHO BUHTATBCA B NOCTAHOBAHD-  THÉ NyHKT 3TOR pesorDIHH: HAËQb YETKO H ACHO FOBOPUTCH O TOM, UTO PEUb HAET O NPOANEHHH, A  NOAYEPXHPAD, O NPOAZIGHHH TOTO peuteHHa, KOTÔPOE Gk1710 NPHHATO HA COMHAALATON ceccHH l'eHepant  HOA KOH epeHUHH NO AaHHOM)' BONPOCY, TAKHM 06PA30M, MEI HMeeM AeNO C NPOLUCAYPHOÏ pesonnuHeñ,  M He MecTOo ceÂuac xacaTBOo# CYMEOTRA AAHHOFO BONPOCA, OH HMEeT CROD HCTOPHD,
16.2 Bee NOMHAT, KaK NOABHAKCE TAK Had BagMbie AONFH HOKOTOPHIX rocynapors-sneHos, o KOTOPHX  TOABKO YTO TOBOPHA YBAMACHHH npeAcTapHTeNs COGAHHEHHMX lUTaTOB, Onn, BO3HHXIM B CBA3K C TeM,  UTO HEKOTOPHE FOCYABPCTBA NPOBOAHIH HOPEANHCTHYOCKY ID TIOJNHYHKY, CIPEMHGL yAGPXaTh HEe33KOH~  HO B Hamel OprannaauxH xriky Yan Kañ-nn, H, xoHeyHOo, PAA rOCyAapcTB He CTAA HATH MO STOMY
294   NyTH H OTKAJa/CA MNIATHTb B3HCOH H NAATHTL ACHETÉ 3a TO, Y706H Aajibme CYDIQCTBOBANA Y BAACTH  H NPOTOHAOBANA HA HTOTTO yNOMAHyTanA KIHKà, H uu BCe ABNNOMCN ¢BHAOTENSMH FOTO, YTO STOR He+  peanHoTHyeckoll NOAHTHKe MpHmen KOHell, H MOXHO 50NBKO YAHBAATLON TOMY, TO yBaxaoMull npea-  crapHTens CoeAHHeHHEIX I. xaTOs NPOAONKAET KAK~TO eu 2riDABAM BATH YXE B apreprapauux GORX,
16,3 Kpoue roro, s xoren 6u ckasath,ysaxaeMmufi ron, lipeAcenatess; yto xaxaas l’eHepanbHas  XOH(EPeHUHA OYBOpeHHa B CBOHX POLIEHHAX, H COMMAAUATAN CECCHA T'oHepanbHON KOHPUPEHLHH NPH-  HANA Pe3OADUHPD NO ABHHOMY BONPOCY NPOCTHM-GONBIUHHÈTBOM FOAOCOB, 1 He MOry cele NPOXOTABHTK,  Kak Hama ce¢CHf MOXOT POHATL BONPOC O NPOANEHHH pemeHHA COMHAALUATOH CECCHH KaKHM-/1H60 Apy-  THM o6pasom, . ; ; :
16,4 Mu cynraeM,yro AaHHAA NPOLEAYPHAR PE3ONDUHA HYXAGOTCA HMEHHO B NPOCTOM GONbNHHCTBO.,  KoTaTH, NPeAOTABAAR Hal AOKNÔA HA yTPeHHoM 3a00AaHHH, ypaxaeMiil npeAceaarens AAMUNIHOTPA-  THBHOR KOMHCCHH CKA3A/1, YTO, NPHHHMAF 3TOT NPOOKT Pe3OANUHK GONBWHHCTEOM B ABE TPOTH FONO-  coB B KouHccHW, MM cheAOBAanH npeueneHty. Mu Takxe CYHTA@M, YTO B AAHHOM C/yvae TAKXe Hyx-  HO C/AGAOBATB NPELLGAGHTY, eCchH cHcTeMa NPEÎLOACHTOB HPABHTCH, @ HMEHHO, Kak ha npomnoft cec-  cux Fenèpansñoil xouhepexuiH, Tak H Ha STOR NpHHATL Ha N/IéHyMe AaHHOÉ pemiéHHe NPOOTHM 60/b-  MHHOTBOM rojocop, TakHM 06pa3oM Bce npeuexeHrs! GyAyT CObADAEHH, H ÉYAOT NPHHATO NPABHAb-  HOe pemeHHe, B HOM MH HH B ManefimeR Mépe He ¢coMHeBaeMcs, Bnaronapn; ypaxaoMas TOB,  Ilpeacenatenn,
(16,1) Mr. KOCHUBEI (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Républie) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you; Madam Président, Madam President, fellow delegates, By an overwhelming majority,  the Administrative Commission adopted the resolujion which is pow being submitted to plenary, in para-  graph 7 for approval, [I beg you to look very carefully at the operative part of this resolution. Here itis  precisely and clearly glated that what is proposed is the prolongation, and | emphasize the prqlongation,  of the dec/sfon which was adopted in this matter at the seventeenth session of the General Conference,  We are thus dealing with a procedural resolution, And it is not the moment to concern ourselves with the  “ +  substance of this question, which Is now past history:
(16,2) Everyone rérhembérs how the so-called debts of ‘some Mernber States occurred, about which the.  * distinguished delégate of the United States has just spoken, They occurred because some Stales were con-  ducting an unrealistic policy, attempting to maintain the Chiang Kai-shek clique Jllegally in our Organiza-  tion. A number of States, of course, were not prepared to follow this path and refused to pay contributions  or to pay money so that this clique could continue in power and haye pretension of some sort, And we are  all witnesses to the fact that this unrealistic policy has run its course and ‘can’only wonder that the dis-  _linguished representative of the United States conlinues'somehdw to fight â'rear-guard action to justify it.
(16.3) In addition, I shold like to say, Madan President, that every General Conference is sovereign in  its decisibns and the seventeenth sessfon of the General Conference adopted a resolution on this matter  by a simple majority vote, I cannot imagine how our session can decide on the prolongation of the decision  of the seventeenth session in any other way.
(16,4) Our opiniGi 1s that this procedural resolution ‘calls in fact for a simple majority. In fact, In  submitting ur report at the morning meeting, the distinguished Chairman of the Administrative Commis-  sion said that in adopting this drift resolution by a two-thirds majority in Commission, we were following  established precedent. We also feel that in the present fislance we should likewise follow established  precedent, if the system of precedents Is acceptable, and do at this session just as was done at the last  segsion of the Géneral Conference, adopting this decision in plenary by a simple majority vote, In this  way, all procedents will be observed and a correct decision will be taken, we have hot the slightest doubt  of that, Thank you, Madam President,
17, The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the delegate of the Ukraine, Before giving thé floor to further speakers I would like  to ask the Legal Adviser to express his views on this issue.
18. M, LUSSIER: (Directeur de l'Office des normes internationales et des affaires juridiques). -  Madame la Présidente, je suis sûr que les membres de la Conférence générale se souviennent  très bien du débat qui a-éû-lieu daris cette'salle il y à exactement deux ans, Je tiens à rappeler que,  pour cé qui ést de la partie III, paragraphe (c), de la'résolution 16,32, 11 avait été indiqué à 1a Con-  férence générale que, comme cela avait déjà été signalé à 1a Comifilssion administrative, la déci-  sion exigeait 1a majorité des deux-tiers, du fait qu'il s'agissait d'une suspension du Règlement  financier. Comme le Président de la Commission administrative l'a fait observer, la décision du  Président de la Conférence générale selon laquelle l'autre partie de la résolution ne requerrait pas  la majorité des deux-tiers visait une disposition de la partie Il de la même résolution, Donc, étant  donné qu'il s'agit maintenant de suspendre & nouveau, pour une nouvelle période, une disposition du  Règlement finaïicier, je crois qu'il éppartient à 1a Conférence générale d'adopter, pour prendre sa  décision, la mtrñë attitude qu'il ÿ à deux ans, c'est-à-dire d'appliquer la règle de la majorité des  deux-tiers, ‘Marti, Madame la Présidente. ' ’ IT A
19. ‘The PRESIDENT: : ' . 1e er - I”  Thank you. ' Does anybody else wish to speak? The delegate of the United States has the floor.
20.1 MR; MAXIM (United States of America): .- ST  By way of a very briefireply, I regret that some type of politics) motiyation has just been  ascribed to the position that my country takes on this question, .I was very careful to point aut  in my original présentation that our position is motivated entirely by a consideration of legal , . .  correctness, 1 repeat, legal correctness,
20,2 I would simply, with respect to procedural questions, draw delegates’ attention to the opera-  tive paragraph of the resolution proposed under item 43, 3, in which it is proposed to prolong the  suspension of Articles 4. 3 and 4. 4 of the Financial Regulations, The distinguished Legal / Adviser  has just indicated that this must and should be done by a two-thirds majority.
20.3 If any further justification is needed on this point I refer delegates to Rule 81, paragraph 2,  sub-paragraph (g) of the Rules of Procedure, where among other questions which require a  two-thirds majority:of the members present and voting, figures the "suspension of an article of  the Financial Regulations, in accordance with Article 14. 3 of the said Regulations'. We are simply  insisting on the correct legal procedure in this matter, Thank you, Madam President.
21, The PRESIDENT: . !  Thank you. Does anybody else wish to speak on the subject? The delegate of the Soviet Union  has the floor, ' .
22.1 10.C, HBAHOB (Cona Cosercçxux CoynandçthyecxHx Pecnyb/nk);  Cnachbo ros, Ipeacexarens. Hao HecKOAbKO YAHBAROT TO NONOKEHHE, UTO ypaxaeMie MNPEAQTA-  BHTE/IH HEKOTOPHX FOCYAGPOTD NHTADTCR BOPHYTb HAC K HOXOAHOMY NYHKTY PemeHHS TOFO BOFPOCA,  KOTOpHH pemxna He TONLKO HOTOPHA, HO TAKXe.H Hama l'enepassHan KOHPepeHyHA B NPOW/IOM, ABA  Trona TOMy Hasañ.
22,2 ToatoMy pce MnpouyeAypHHe AOTANN, KOTOPHIMH Ha¢ XOTAT CORYAO 3Aech 3aHATH, He MOFyT 3a-  KaMydAHpOBATH TO NPOCTOE NONOXKEHHe, YTO BONPOC GHA PemeH, PemoH NPOCTHM GONBIMHHOTBOM, HO  A XOoTen 61 HAMOMHHTR YBAXAGMHM IT, Ae/eraTaM, YUTO STO GONBMHHCTBO 65110 HO NPOCTHM,
22,3 Bu Xopomo NOMHHTE, TO ysaxaeunfi Mpeacenatens npounof Texepahbuoñ KonjepeHuxx, T-H  Xarupapa, 6un ‘BHHYXZEH, BBHAY TOTO, 4TO HOKOTOPHE AoneräunH nurankés OKA3ATb Ha Hero daBne-  HHe, yATH CO CBOETO NPeACeAATE/NILCKOTO MecTa, TAK XaK HOKOTOPNE He xorenu CYHTaTECA à ero py-  nuurom, H D'enepanstan xoHpepeHiuHa, NOAGPAIDINee GONLMHHCTRO AGNOTATOB B TOM 38/16 CBOHMH  annoaHcMeHTaMH BepHyAH 3aciayxeHHOrO JlpeAceRarens Ha ero 3ac/lyXeHHoe MecTO, OKalam, TaKHM  o6pa3oM, eMy MOPanbliyn NOAASPXKy B NPaBHNBHOOTH TOFS peMeHHA, KOTOpOe OH npHHAN, Nostouy  Top, llpeacenaTens, MHe TAKXe XOTE/NOCH NONPOCHTHL NOHMEHHOrO IOAOCOBaHHA,
22,4 Yro xe KacaeTcA CAMOro NPHHUHNA, TpHHIHNA npogreHHa 1 rex Tpaasyui, KOTOpHe Gs1H, A He  sHan TO», MpexaceAaTéaL, xakoe pemeHHe Bil npHkere OTHOCHTONBHO npoctoro HAH HHOFO 60/5 10HH-  CTBA, HO H Gl XOTE/1 OÔPATHTb BHHMAHKM® BCOX APHCYTCTBY DHX SACCh,HA TO ro BOMPOC, Koropui  MBI cefiuac obcyxauem, pemeH HoTOpHefl, pemeH GecnosopoTHo, H &me pas XOTeNOCh GH BLICKA3aTh  HEROYMEHHE, 3ayeM Hac ONATEH BO3BPAmanT B Aajexoe npomnoe, BaaroAapo sac, r-xa Ilpeaceaa-  Tenn,
(22.1) Mr; IVANOV {Union of Sov:et Soctalist Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Madam President, We are somewhat surprised by the situation in which the distinguished  representatives of some States are trying to take us back to the starting-point for a decision on this matter,  which has been settled not only by history but by our General Conference as well, two years ago.
(22,2) All the procedural details which we are now asked to consider cannot therefore mask the simple fact  that the question was decided, and decided by simple majority vote, though I should like to remind the  distinguished delegates that the actual majority obtained was not a simple one,
(22,3) You will remember that the distinguished President of the last General Conference, Mr, Haguiwara,  was obliged by the fact that some delegations were trying to put pressure on him, to leave the President's  chair as there were those who were unwilling to abide by his rulihg. And the overwhelming majorily of  delegates to the General Conference, in this foom, brought the honoured Président back fo his rightful  place by their applause, thus giving him their moral support over the correctness of the decision he had  taken, For this reason, Madam President 1 should also like to ask for a roll-call vote,  A 1
(22,4) As régards the principle itself, the principle of continuing former traditions, J do rot Know,  Madam President, what decision you will came fo over the matter of a simple or othér Kind of majority,  but 1 should like to draw the attention of all those present to the fact that the matter we are now discussing  has been decided by filétory, and decided irreversibly, and 1 éhould like once more 16 express my bewilder-  ment at why we âre being taken back to the distant past, Thank you, Madam President,
23. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. No further speakers? The delegate of Byelorussia has the floor.
24, T-u B,C, KOIBACHH (Benopycckas Conercxan CouxarkoTHSECKaN Pecny6nuxe): .  Bnaroaapo sac, vopapum Mpéxceñatens. I xoren GH TONLKO OGPATHTb BHHMAHKE HA jecocros-  TONLHOCTH CCHAKK Ha CTaTbD 81 Mpamsun npoyeaypm D'exeparñbHoli Xoudeponuuu, NOANYIKT “a”, Ko-.  xopyp cAenan ysaxaemsifl npeacranurens Coeaunenueix Hlraros AmepurH. B pesonpukh, KoTOpyp  MH XOTHM cefiyac TONOCOBATh, I'030PHTCA B NOCTAHOBAADMER YACTH O NPOANCHHH, NPHOCFAHOBAQHUA  npHmeHeHHa cTaTell BK T,N., B TO BP6MA xax D llparknax NpoLUeAypPM B NOANYHKTE "g" rosQpHTCA ©  NPHOCTaHOBNOHHA AeHCTBHA oaHOR U3 éTateñ, Cefluac xe MH péuaom BONPOC He O NPHOCTAHOBACHHH  NPHMEHEHHS, 8 O NPOMEHHH NPHOCTAHOB/MEHHA NPHMEHEHHA, TO OTH O TOM, YTO.YXE GHAO peweHO B  npomnoM.’ Heme oxHb ‘cooBpaxenlié; xoTopoe s X0Ten 65H BHCKAIATh! Apa rons TOMy Hasan 6uno  NPHIHAHO | H aneds, 8 WHECKO 6aHkpOTGTRO HEPRANHCTHYEC KOH NOIHUHH RCRYCCTPEHHITO NPOACTABH-  renbcteé winkn Yah Kañ-æx p WHECKO, Baaroaapp sac, vosapuu Tipeacenatenb,
(24) Mr. KOLBASIN (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, ‘Madam President, I should just like to draw attention to the Irrelevance of the reference  to Rule 81, eub-paragraph (d), of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, made. by the dlstin-  guished representative of the United States of Amer{ca, In the resolution we are now Intending to yote on,  the question at Téaue In‘the’ operative part le prolongation of the suspension of cerlafn articles whilst In  sub-paragraph (g) of the Rules of Procedure the reference is to suspension of an article. \Yhat we are  deciding now is not about a suspension but about a prolongation of suspension or in othér words about  something which has already been decided in the.past. And'there is just one more remark which I should  like to make, which fe that the bankrupt character of the unrealistic support given to the artificiel re-  presentation of the Chiang Kef-shek clique in Unesco was recognized two years ago herp too, in Unesco.  Thank you, Madam President. -
25, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of the United States has the floor.
26.1 Mr. MAXIM (United States of America): Lo ‘ .  Thank you, Madam President, J would like to point out that it is not we who have gone into  such depths in reopening the question debated at the seventeenth session of the General Conference,  This is the opening of a new question, The special account created by that decision of the 1972  General Conference has expired, We are now presented with a new problem, a continuing problem,  and with finding the solution to that problem, . .
26.2 The solution, according to some, implies - and again I refer to the operative language of the  resolution before us - the suspension of Articles 4.3 and 4, 4 of the Organization's Financial  Regulations, and it is quite clear that such suspension requires a two-thirds majority.
26,3 I regret again that political motivations have been imputed to the United States on this ques-  tion, That is not correct. We are concerned with the problem whereby surpluses of this Organi-  zation, whicli normally would be reimbursed to all Member States, to all Member States including  some of the most hard-pressed developing countries, are now going into a special account to  absorb the arrears of a certain small group of other Member States. 7
26.4 If it fs proposed to do this by a suspension of the Organization's Financial Regulations, such  suspension clearly requires a two-thirds majority. May I suggest, Madam President, ‘that we  move ahead with business and put this question to a roll-call vote to be decided by a two-thirds  majority. Thank you, Madam President.
27. ‘The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The Chairman of thé Commission has the floor.
28.1 Mr. WYNTER (Jamaica) (Chairman of the Administrative Commission): at  Madam President, forgive me for the confusion, but there appears to be a slight misunderstand-  ing of what took place last time, May I repeat what I said in introducing thie item, Madam Presi-  dent. That last time, in 1972, the resolution was in four sections. In the second section,  paragraph 4 read as follows: "Decides not to apply Financial Regulation 5.7, in so far as payments  from the above-mentioned Member States are concerned, so that any such payments as may be  received from them shall be credited first to the Working Capital Fund and then to contributions  due in respect of the relevant financial period",
28.2 That clause, according to the verbatim records of the seventeenth session, was put to the  plenary and the President ruled that it could be passed by a simple majority. Thus the clause  was passed by simple majority, Co
28.3 After it was adopted, Madam President, there followed a very long discussion a3 to what  to do with paragraph 5 in Section III, sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c), more particularly (c), It is  in that section that the spécial account was created, ‘And according to the’ verbatim record, the  President said, "I put to the vote Section III {nits entirety; à majority of two-thirds is réquired  for it". And that was what was put: Section III, which included the creation of a special account  and the suspension of two Articles 4. 3 and 4. 4 was put to the vote by ro"! -call and was adopted  by a two-thirds majority. ;
28,4 That is what is before us again today, a prolongation of the suspension. There fs no ques-  tion of a reopening of the decision - to use colloquial languagé :'to wipe off the arrears of  particular Member States. That was taken and decided last time: What is before us now is to’  continue the suspension of two financial articles, That was adopted last time by a two-thirds  majority, and as the Legal Adviser said, it has to be adopted by a two-thirds majority today. It  has nothing to do with the original decision about the non-application of another article to certain  Member States. : i 1005" ; -
28.5 I hope that that will clear up matters, Madam President, because there is nothing at issue.  My Commission has adopted this by a tn >-thirds majority and thé recommendation therefore is  that it should be adopted by a two-thirds majority in plenary. Thank you, Madam President.
29, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Ladies and gentlemen, after having heard the debate, the advice of the Legal  Adviser, and the statements of the Chairman of the Administrative Commission, I interpret this
37 situation as meaning that I cannot rule on whether a simply majority or a two- thirds majority  be required. It ig up to the General Conference to decide. Therèfore, ! would like to ask the  Conferènée whéthér it supports”t ‘the advice of thé Legal Adviser, who said that a two-thirds majority
18’ réquired. 1 shall put this to the vôte. On \ point of order, the United Kingdom has the floor.
30, Mr. MARTIN ‘(United Kingdom}: ‘  I am sorry, Mad am President, could we please just know what we are voting for. Thank you,
31.” “The PRESIDENT:  The Legal Adviser advised me to ask the General Conference's opinion, whether a two- thirds  majority 1s required to decide this issue. This i8 the question which I am going to put to the vote.  On a point of order, the United States of America.
32, Mr, MAXIM (United States of America):  It is not my understanding at all that that {s what the Legal Adviser advised, nor did the  distingulehed Chairman’of the Administrative Cominission, When it was proposed that we proceed  with the two- thirds majority vote, as suggested by thé Legal ‘Adviser, there was ho objection  or any call for a prôcedüfal vote, * I did not hear any call for a vote, ' I move again, I formally  move, Madam President, that we proceed tô vote on this resolution by roll-call, to be determined  by a two-thirds majority. Thank you, Madam President,
33.1 The PRESIDENT:  Well now, the United States delegate has ; formally moved a-roll-call vote with a two-thirds  majority, Is this proposal seconded? It is seconded by the delegates of Brazil and Argentina,  Therefore I put to the vote the proposed resolution contained under item 43.3 by a roll-call vote.  “(Le vote lieu par appel hôminal)  Ont voté pour le projét de résolution : Fépublia ué décoratque populaire du Yemen, Yougos-  lavie, ~Zamble, Afghanistan, ‘Algérie, ’ Arable’ aout e, Bangladésh, RSS de Biélorussie,  Bulgarie, Chine, Congo (République populaire du), Cuba, République arabe d'Egypte, Emirats  arébés ‘unis, Frañicé, Gabon, Ghana, Guinée, ‘Hongrie, Inde, Irak, iran, Jamatque, Jordanie,  Koweit, Laos, Liban, Républiquë arabid libyenné, ‘Madagascar, Malisié, Malte, Maroc,  Mauritante, Mexique, Monaco, Mongolie! Niger; Nigéria, Ouganda, Oman, Phklatan, Pérou,  Pologne, République démocratique allemande, Roumanie¢, Rwanda, Sénégal, Soudan, Répu-  blique populaire démocratique de Corée, République arabe syrienne, Tanzanie, Tchad, Tché-  coslovaquie, Tunisie, RSS d'Ukraine, Union des républiques socialistes soviétijues. :  Ont voté contre : Argentine, Bolivie, Brésil, Chili, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Equateur,  Etats-Unis d'Amérique, Guatemala,’ Haftf, Israël, Malawi.  Se sont abstenus ; ; République tédérale d'Allemagne, Australie, Austriche, Belgique, Canada,  Colombie, République dé Coréé, Danémark, Espagne, Ethiopie, Finlande, Gambie, Grèce,  Indordéste, Irlande, Islande, Italie, ‘Japon, Kéiyh, Libéria, Maurice, Népal, Norvège,  Nouvelle-Zélande, Panama, Pays- -Bas, Philippines, Portugal, Royaurne-Uni, Sierra Leone,  Singapour, République de Sri L'énka, Suède, Suisse, Uruguay, Venezuela.  Etaient absents : Yémen, République du Zafre, Albanie, Bahrein, Barbade, Birmanie,  Burundi, Cameroun, République cehtrafricainé, Chypre, Côte-d'Ivoire, Dahomey, République  dominicaine, Haute-Voité, Honduras, Lesotho, Luxembourg, Mali, Nicaragua, Paraguay,  Qatar, Saini-Marin, Somalie, Thallande, Togo, Trinité-et-Tobago, Turquie, République du  Vitt-nam,  Ladies and gentlemen, the resolution ‘hag ! ‘been ‘adopted by 56 votes to 12, with 36 abstentions. Con-  sequently, the required two-thirds majority has been obtained.
33. 2 We proceed with Part Iv. ;  Paragraph 8 of document 18 C/115, Part IV, Annex-Recommendations
33.3 The Commission recommended unanimously that the "General Conférence adopt the resolution  contained in paragraph 8. Are you ready to adopt it? Adopted unanimously,  Item 44 - Working Capital Fund - Level and administration
33,4 The Commmisalon recommended by 25 votes tô 13, with 10 abstentions, that the Gèneral Con-  ference adopt the resolution. I put it to the vote.  (A vote was taken by show of hands)
33.5 The resolution hag been adopted by 65 voles to 12, with 31 abstentions.  “ 288   Paragraph 10 of document 18 C/115, Part IV, Annex-Recommendations 37
33,6 The Commission recommended unanimously that the General Conference adopt the resolution  contained in paragraph 10. Are you ready to adopt it? Adopted unanimously,  Item 53 - Headquarters premises - extended medium-term solution
33,7 The Commission decided by 48 votes to 6, with 3 abstentions, to recommend that the General  Conference adopt the resolution. I am told that a two-thirds majority is required in view of the  financial nature of point 16 of the resolution.  (A vote was taken by show of hands)
33.8 The resolutlon has been adopted by 75 votes to 6, with 12 abstentions, Consequently, the  resolution has obtained the required two-thirds majority.  Item 54 - Remodelling of Headquarters premises
33,9 The Comu:lssion decided by 36 votes to none, with 4 abstentions, to recommend that the  General Conference adopt the resolution. Does anybody request to take a vote on the resolution?  Yes? I put it to the vote.  (A vote was taken by show of hands)
33.10 The resolution has been adopted by 85 votes to none, with 11 abstentions,  Item 55 - Headquarters premises - long-term solution
33.11 The Commission decided by 30 votes to 1, with 9 abstentions, to recommend that the  General Conference adopt the resolution. I put the resolution to the vote,  (A vote was taken by show of hands)
33.12 The resolution has been adopted by 81 votes to none, with 17 abstentions.  Item 52 - Terms of reference of the Headquarters Committee
33.13 The Commission decided unanimously té recommend that the General Conference adopt  the resolution. Are you ready to adopt it? Adopted unanimously.  Item 52 - Expression of ‘gratitude to the Headquarters Committee
33,14 The Commission decided unanimously to recommend that the General Conference adopt  the resolution, Are you ready to adopt it? Adopted unanimously.
33.15 Before ending our work on the report of the Administrative Commission, I give the floor  to the Chairman of the Commission. . - -
34,1 Mr, 'WYNTER (Jamaica) (Chairman of the Admintstrative Commission):  Madam President, I am indebted to the representative of Malawi ho gent me a note ‘to point  out what is clearly an error in 18 c/11s, Part Ifl of the Annax-Récommendations under itém 17, 2  and the resolution in paragraph 2 dealing with Chinese as a working language. in paragraph 2 (8)  of the resolution, in the English text, the word "principal" should replace the word "principle".
34,2 Madam President, as I indicated earlier, I should like through you, Madam, to ask the  Members of the Conference to note some budget figures in the main document 18 C/115. They are  all in Part III of the report as follows:  Item 17. 2 a Part I - General Policy (paragraph 34) - $1,230,100  Item 41.2 - Use of Arabic (paragraph 41) - 2,020,500 ‘  Item 41.2 - Director-General (paragraph 42) - 486, 700  Item 41,2 - External Audit (paragraph 43) . 155, 200  Item 41.2 - Joint Inspection (paragraph 45) - 150, 000
34, 3. Then, Madam President, in paragraph 102, Part IH of the report,’ we have a total for  Part IH of the Budget, The figure in the report was $24,253, 600, As a result of the joint meeting  this morning, that figure has been reduced to $24,231,250. In paragraph 110, of the report,  Part IV of the Budgêt; Chapter 1, the amount is $2,974,800. In paragraph 119, Chapter 2, the  amount is $9, 978,200. In paragraph 125, Part V of the Budget, it is $14,627,300, In para-  graph 130, Part VI of the Budget, it is $10, 301,000. And fn paragraph 132, Part VII of the Budget,  the amount is $4,854, 200.
57 34,4 Madam President, I sirmply ask that these figures be noted, even though noted In a general  way when the report was taken earller. The actual approval will be done when the Appropriation  Resolution is brought up before the plenary later In the session.
34,5 And finally, I should like, Madam President, on behalf of the Administrative Commission, to  express our gratitude to the members of the General Conference for having upheld in plenary all  the decisions taken by the Administrative Commission in ite deliterations. Thank you, Madam  President.
35.1 Thé PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of the Administrative Commission. If there is no objection to his state-  ment, it is so noted.
35.2 Ladies and gentlemen, we haye completed the examination of the report of the Administrative  Commission, and I should like to thank Senator Wynter and his colleagues for the excellent job  they have done, and to congratulate Senator Wynter himself on thé presentation of the report of  the Administrative Commission, covering so many complex and complicated questions.
35.3 Now I would like to ask Mr, Hironaga, head of the Japanese delegation, to take over the  Chair,  Mr, Hironaga (Japan) took the chair.  WAYS AND MEANS BY WHICH UNESCO SHOULD CONTRIBUTE, IN ITS FIELDS OF COM-  PETENCE, TO THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A NEW INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORDER  (Item 12, 4 of the Agenda) (continued)  WAYS AND MEANS BY WHICH UNESCO COULD, UNDER ARRANGEMENTS ADOPTED OR  PLANNED BY THE UNITED NATIONS GENERAL ASSEMBLY OR BY THE ECONOMIC AND  SOCIAL COUNCIL, PARTICIPATE IN THE COMMON EFFORT OF REFLECTION TO IMPROVE  THE WORKING OF THE UNITED NATIONS SYSTEM (Item 63 of the Agenda) (continued)  VOIES ET MOYENS PAR LESQUELS L'UNESCO, DANS LES DOMAINES DE SA COMPETENCE,  POURRAIT CONTRIBUER A L'INSTAURATION D'UN NOUVEL ORDRE ECONOMIQUE  INTERNATIONAL (point 12, 4 de l'ordre du jour) (suite)  MODALITES SELON LESQUELLES L'UNESCO POURRAIT, DANS LE CADRE DES DISPOSITIONS  PRISES OU PROJETEES PAR L'ASSEMBLEE GENERALÉ DES NATIONS UNIES OU PAR LE  CONSEIL ECONOMIQUE ET SOCIAL, PARTICIPER A L'EFFORT DE REFLEXION COMMUN  VISANT A AMELIORER LE FONCTIONNEMENT DU SYSTEME DES NATIONS UNIES (point 63  de l'ordre du jour) (suite)  MEDIOS POR LOS CUALES LA UNESCO PODRIA CONTRIBUIR A INSTAURAR UN NUEVO ORDEN  ECONOMICO INTERNACIONAL EN LAS ESFERAS DE SUCOMPETENCIA (punto 12, 4 del Order. del  Dfa) (continuaciôn)  MEDIOS PARA QUE LA UNESCO PARTICIPE, EN EL MARCO DE LAS DISPOSICIONES TOMADAS  O PROYECTADAS POR LA ASAMBLEA GENERAL DE LAS NACIONES UNIDAS O POR EL  CONSEJO ECONOMICO Y SOCIAL, EN EL ESFUERZO DE REFLEXION ENCAMINADO A  MEJORAR EL FUNCIONA MIENTO DEL SISTEMA DE LAS NACIONES UNIDAS {punto 63 del Orden  del Dfa) {continuacidn)  nyt wr CPEJICTBA, “CO TIOMOIBI0 KOTOPBIX WHECKO MOT'JIA Bb! B C®EPAX CBOEH  KOMNETEHUHH CONERCTBOBATE YCTAHOBJIEHHIO HOBOTO MEXAYHAPOAHOTO
3KOHOMHYEC KOTO TMOPSANKA (nyskT 12.4 nosecTxH aus) (nponosxenxe)  HYTH H CPEACTBA, C ITOMOHbD KOTOPbIX WHECKO MOTTA Ebl YYACTBOBATH B  OBIHX YCHJIHAX NO H3BICKAHHI0O BO3MOXHOCTEH YJIYYIIEHHA PABOTH CHC l'EMBI  OPTAHH3ALHH OBFEAHHEHHBX HAUXÉ B COOTBETCTBHH'C MEPAMH, NPHHATLHIMH  HJIH SAIIUIAHHPOBAHHBIMH TEHEPA/bHOH ACCAMBJEEH OPPAHH3ALHH  OBBE/HHEHHbIX HAMA HH 9KOHOMHYECKHM MH COIIHAJBHbIM COBETOM  (NyHKT 63 NOBeCTKH AKA) (npoxonxenne)  sde us Sula! (LE LG pes o) Gols! Ye oF Sisal) is 1 J Lugdly Ml  (eb) ( JUN yas or rat wad!)  onload là usadl LM ald ined! Lebo 3) Lyi cles Jb GosSaind) pas I JE Lally: Jot  EER TR IT RVCR FI DIR VER) ROVER TI JN. | PEE] wa pres Nt lin Yl 5 SL  (ab) (Juan oe
36.1 The PRESIDENT: ; 37  The meeting {8 reopened, Distinguished delegates, ladles and gentlemen, it is my great  privilege and honour to take over as temporary President of the General Conference. This is  the first time in my life that I have had to preside over such a large Conference and I feel myself  a complete amateur in this respect, although I have had many experiences of presiding at small  gatherings in the Japanese language. The case of Ambassador Hagulwara, former President of  the General Conference, was quite different, I would therefore like to ask distinguished delegates  to give me their sympathetic co-operation eo that I can fulfil my heavy task during these delibera-  tions, especially as we are now coming to deal with very important items, which might usher in a  new era of the world society. Those items are item 12, 4 and item 63.
36,2 Distinguished delegates, as you know well, at the thirtieth plenary meeting on Friday,
15 November, the General Conference set up a Working Group, and this Working Group held its  first meeting on Saturday morning, 17 November, and elected Mr. Hector Wynter of Jamaica  as its Chairman, It has produced a report on its work, which is contained in document 18 c/133  which 1s now before us,
36.3 I would like to ask the Chairman of the Working Group, Senator Hector Wynter, to introduce  the report of the Working Group.
37,1 Mr. WYNTER (Jamaica) (Chairman of the Working Group):  Thank you, Mr, President, As you said, Mr. President, and as is set out in the docu-  ment 18 C/133, a Working Group consisting of Algeria, Belgium, Egypt, India, Jamalca, Niger,  Peru, Philippines, Sweden, Tanzania and Yugoslavia was appointed to consider the several draft  resolutions submitted on items 12, 4 and 63, namely the draft resolutions in documents
18 C/PLEN/DR. 13, 14, 15, and document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 16 which contained an amendment to  the draft resolution in document 18 C/PLEN/DR, 14, The Working Group was to look at these in  the light of the debate in the plenary.
37.2 Mr. President, as you sald, the Group held its first meeting on Saturday last. Those par-  ticipating were Mr. Van Ussel and his deputy, Mr, Ducarme from Belgium, Mr, El Wakil from  Egypt, Mr. Carpio from Peru, Mr. Derradji from Algeria, Mr. Lukovac from Yugoslavia,  Mr. Allgardh from Sweden, Mr. Castro from the Philippines, Mr. Parthasarathi from India and  Mr. Seydou from Niger, and the Working Group was assisted by representatives of the Director-  General,
37.3 Mr. President, the Group thought that a consolidated draft resolution was possible, and  felt that it was best to propose such a consolidated draft. Accordingly, there is in the Annex to  the report (18 C/133 Annex) a proposed draft resolution which brings together all the elements of  the draft resolutions which were presented to thé plenary. The thinking of the Group, Mr. Presi-  dent, was that it was possible, under item 12, 4, to consider ways and means by which Unesco  should contribute to the establishment of a New International Economic Order. And the main  resolution on that particular aspect was contained in document 18 C/PLEN/DR. 13. There were also  some aspects in document 18 C/PLEN/DR.15. The group felt, Mr. President, that once the  reaction to the Declaration and the Programme of Action had been given, the request from the  Economic and Social Council for reactions from agencies as to the ways and means of strengthen-  ing the United Nations system in order to enable it to assist more effectively in the establishment  of a New International Economic Order could be put in the same resolution. "And findlly, the other  set of resolutions (documente 18 C/PLEN/DR. 14 arid 16), dealt with Unesco's strengthening of its  own operational machinery in order to enable it to contribute as effectively as possible to the  establishment of a New International Economie Order. So with that philosophy behind it, the  Working Group decided to present the consolidated draft. ‘
37,4 Mr. Presidént, I'should liké to mention one other working rule. Thé Working Group felt  that it had to work within the limits of the draft resolutions presented and of the debate in thé  plenary. It did not feel that it had the authority to introduce entirely new concepts which had not  been introduced in the debate, And accordingly, members of the Working Group exercised great  self-restraint and self-discipline in not introducing new concepts and new ideas. And secondly, ‘  Mr. President, the Working Group felt that since all the sponsors, at lehst the representatives of  each set of sponsors for each resolution, were represented on the Working Group, if suck a spon-  sor decided to withdraw a part or parts of his resolution this would be perfectly aécéptâtie, But,  on the other hand, such a sponsor would not be allowed to introduce a completely new idea or rew  concept into the resolution which had been presented éarlier, Those were constraints which  members accepted, and that made it possible for us to be able to present this draft resolution.
37.5 And finally, before I mention one or two corrections to the draft resolution, Mr. President,  I should like to say that the members of the Working Group expressed the wish that this consolidated  draft resolution might be accepted by a wide consensus, and they were inspired to do'éo bécatse  in the Working Group they were able to give and take, and they were able thémselves to adopt the  draft resolution unanimously. And they hope that this is a reflection of what might happen in the  plenary,
37.6 And now, Mr. President, may I refer very quickly to one or two points Ih the draft resolu-  . tion which need some correction. I refer to the opérative section Part 1, paragraph 1,
37 "Takes note with satisfaction of document 18 C/103...", It was pointed out in the' Working ‘Group  that the delegation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics had moved thet the words ‘’with'satis-  faction" should be deleted, But as this had not been put to the vote in the plenary, and as so many  other speakers had expressed the view that these words should be maintained; the Working Group  felt it was fairer to leave the words in, and to ask the plenary when it is discussing this to take a  vote as to whether they should be deleted,
37.7 Secondly, I understand that in Part I, paragraph 4, the French translation of the English  words "education free and accessible to all" is Incorrect: the word "gratuite" should be replaced  by "libre". I believe the English text {s all right,
37.8 Then, Mr. President, in Part III of the operative part of the resolution, paragraph'11 (a),  I understand that the delégation of Belgium will present a correction of the French version of the  third sentence because it falls to reflect the idea of the English term "inter-agency task force",  Then iri the following paragraph, paragraph 11 (b), the words "of ‘governments’ should bé inserted  after the words "of delegates" In the second line, and at the beginning of the last line of the second  sentence of that paragraph the word "of" should be replaced by "and", The last line would then  read: "and the Economic and Social Council;'.
37.9 Those are the corrections that I should like to bring to the attention of the Conference, and  I now have the honour on behalf of the Working Group to present the draft resolution for the consi-  deration of the Conference, Thank you, Mr, President.
38.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of the Working Group.
38.2 1 suggest that we should firat hear from those wishing to speak and to express their gencral  comments, and then go through the draft resolution paragraph by paragraph,
38.3 The distinguished delegate of Belgium has the floor.
39.1 M. VAN USSEL (Belgique). -  Monsieur le Président, en tant que membré du Groupe de travail, je tiens à exprimer publi-  quement touté’ma reconnaissance à M, Wynter, qui, avec un art consommé de la diplomatie, est  parvenu à nous mettre d'accord sur des formules de compromis, '
39.2 En ce qui concerne la section III, du projet de résolution établi par le Groupe de travail
(18 C/133 Annexe), je relève que le texte français parle, au paragraphe 11 (a), d'''un buréau  d'étude interorganisatiôns''. Nous préférerions, pour traduire l'expression anglaise le libellé  suivait : "'un groupe d'étude interagences organisé en task force", Si cette formule était retenue,  il faudrait également, à la pénultième ligne du'même paragraphe, changer le mot "bureau" en  "groupe d'étude". Merci, Monsieur le Président.
40. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate'of Belgium, Next I call on the distinguished delegate of Peru  to take the floor.
(41.1) Mr. CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President: I should like to express my gratification at having been à member of the Working  Group under the chairmanship of Senator Wynter, We took a great deal of trouble to ensure that so im.  portant a document as this one concerning the contribution of Unesco to the establishment of a new  international economic order could recelve thz full assent of the General Conference. Mr. President,  it was a deeply satlsfying experience to work as a member of this Group, and certain suggestions that  had been made in plenary were withdrawn in order to avoid any misunderstanding and to achieve the  greatest possible degree of acceptance for this document.
(41.2) There is one matter concerning which I should like to state our emphatic support and to explain our  reasons for it. Like the delegation of China, the delegation of Peru had reservations and we rejected  the idea of "interdependence" because, according to our interpretation of the structure of the world, there  exists a relationship of dependence and domination. Nevertheless, political events in the last few years  and more recently show that the world community is evolving towards an interdependent structure, and  this is a favourable trend in that it entails the abolition, or a process of progressive abolition, of the  forms of dominion and exploitation.
(41, 3) Dependence is one of the most serious evils and one which mainly affects the countries of the  Third World; for this reason, Mr. President, we are unable to affirm unreservedly that theré exists  a state of interdependence. I should therefore like to appeal to our colleagues in the delegatioh of China  to refle¢t, as we have done in the Working Group, on a statement which is real and realistic: namely  that the world community is becoming more and more {nterdependent as a result of the changing relation-  ship of forces.
(41; 4) From a situation of forces which was undeniably monopolized and in which decisions were taken  in centres of power while the other countries were merely peripheral, metropolitanized, colonized, we  are increasingly reaching a situation - although it has not yet in fact heen reached - in which there is a  reversal of the relationship of forces and an equilibrium which is the central objective of a new ‘world  economie order: a balance of the relationship of forces which is expressed in the term "interdependence".
(41,5) wish to give this explanation because in the Working Group we withdrew our opposition to the idea  of the existence of interdependence and proposed that ft bé accepted; as members of the Working Group we  agreed to accept it, provided, in accordance with the spirit of the United Nations Declaration, that this  idea be used to refer to a much more realistic view of the situation, namely an evolution towards a situa-  tion fn whieh unilateral dependence would be replaced by an interdependence which would change the  relationship of forces and would tend to promote equilibrium fn the world structure. Thank you,  Mr, Presldent.
42, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Peru. 1 now call on the distinguished delegate of Mexico,
(43.1) Mr, CUEVAS CANCINO (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President, if I am not mistaken, you intend to give the floor to delegations for statements of a  general nature and subsequently to submit for discussion each paragraph of the draft resolution put before  us by the Working Group and contained in the Annex to document 18 C/133.
(43.2) In my view, Mr, President, there is no necessity for a discussion paragraph by paragraph; the  document took account of the general debate and the various draft resolutions, and we are very pleasantly  surprised to note that the Working Group submits to us a document which was approved unanimously, I  think, therefore, that statements of a general nature will suffice and that we can subsequently proceed to  the vote. I should also like to take this opportunity, Mr. President, to congratulate Senator Wynter as  Chairman of the Working Group which submitted a document possessing such abundant good qualities.  Thank you, Mr. President.
44,1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Mexico. I agree with you,
37 44.2 The distinguished delegate of France has the floor.
45. M, BATAULT (France), -  Monsieur le Pi ésident, il s'agit en co moment d'une question extrèmemest importante, Nous  attachons la plus grande Importance à cette résolution, et il nous semble indispensable qu'elle soit  étudiée paragraphe par paragraphe. Merci, Monsieur le Président,
46. The PRESIDENT:  Thank jou. I give the floor to the distinguished delegate of Afghanistan.
47. Mr, ETEMADI (Afghanistan):  Mr, Fresident, my delegation would like to express its appreciation to the Working Party and  to its distinguished Chairman, Senator Wynter. I would lke to support the proposal that was made  by the honourable delegate of Mexico, Ambassador Cuevas Cancino,
48, The PRESIDENT:  Thunk you. Inow call on the distinguished delegate of China to take the floor,
49.1 Mr. CHANG WEI (People's Republic of China) (Speech delivered in Chinese, English trans-  lation taken from interpretation):  Mr, President, I thank the delegate of Peru for his kind explanation,
49,2 With regard to the present form of the draft resolution, the Chinese delegation will vote in  favour of it, because it reflects the positive spirit of the two documents adopted by the United  Nations General Assembly at its sixth special session. However, we have reservations about  the seventh add eighth paragraphs in the preambular part regarding the formulation "interdependent",  for the reasons stated in our previous intervention. Thank you, Mr, President,
50.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the distinguished delegate of China,
50.2 As a compromise solution I propose to discuss the document part by part; beginning first  with the preamble, then Part I, Part II, and so on to Part V,
50.3 In the absence of any more general comments we will proceed to discuss the different sections,
50. 4 The distinguished delegate of Colombia Fas the floor.
(51.1) Mr. GALAN (Colombia) {Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Mr, President, Although the delegation of Colombla is in agreement with the present  text of the preambular part, we should like to submit an additional passage bearing on one speéific aspect.  It would seem Important to make an explicit reference to the problems of hunger and malnutrition, which  has warranted particular consideration by mankind during thé present year and which gave rise to the  recent World Food Conference, held in Rome. Consequently, if the Conference deems it appropriate, it  would also be useful to place on record, in the operative part, and at the appropriaté moment, the neces-  sity of contributing to the fmplernentation of the recommendations adopted in Rome.
(51.2) The addition which the Colombian delegation would like to submit, as the ninth paragraph in the  preambular part, would read, in principle, as follows: ‘Considering that for the establishment of & new  international economic order it {s urgent to face the problems of hunger and malnutrition in the less  developed countries and also necessary for Unesco to co-operate effectively in the emergency and medium-  and long-term programmes that may be undertaken by States and by the other organizations of the United  Nations system on the basis of the recommendations of the World Focd Conference".
(51. 3) With regard to the operative part, we shall later submit a proposal at a moment which the Presi-  dent considers appropriate. Thank you, Mr. President.
52. The PRESIDENT: ,  I thank the distinguished delegate of Colombia. The distinguished delegate of Argentira has  the floor,
(53) Mr, PICO (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish);  Thank you, Mr, President, I refer to a formal aspect but one which is directly related to the problem  which we have raised concerning the extreme care which should be devoted to the translations into Spanish,  The text of the eighth paragraph is mistaken; it reads, In part: "Convencida - la Conferencia - de que la  interdependencia 'aigalfica! unos intereses mutuos de diferentes pafses y pueblos, This phrese means  nothing and should read, for exemple: ''s..que-implica intereses comunes entre diferentes paises y  pueblos..,". Thank you, Mr, President,
54, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Argentina, The Secretary would like to take the floor.
55. The SECRETARY:  Thank you, Mr. President. Mr, President, we have noted this discrepancy in the Spanish  and English texts. The Spanish text will be aligned with the English original, Thank you,  Mr, President,
56, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Secretary. I now call on the distinguished delegate of the United Kingdom.
57.1 Mr, MAR YN (United Kingdom):  Thank you, Mr, President. I would not like to criticize work which has obviously been  valuable and must have involved quite a lot of give and take. But inevitably in a task of this kind,  sometimes there is a slight slip, and I would like to suggest an amendment to the eighth paragraph  of the Introductory part, namely to the first paragraph which begins with the word "Convinced".  In the English text, at least, it has the phrase "the establishment of a new world order”, Else-  where in the draft resolution we use what, I think, 1s the proper phrase, "new international  economic order". This is the form of words that was used in the two resolutions of the General  Assembly, and used also by the Director-General in document 18 C/103,
57.2 1 would therefore like to propose the substitution of the phrase "new international economic  order" for the phrase "new world order’ in this paragraph. Thank you, Mr. President.
58. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of the United Kingdom. The distinguished delegate of Peru  has the floor.
(59) Mr, CHIAPPO (Peru) {Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President, the entire draft resolution reférs to Unesco's contribution to the new international  economic order, 1 should like to'éxplain to the delegate of the Unitéd Kingdom that the reference to a new  international order which is intended to create a new world structure has a much broader significance  which {8 of concern to Unesco; so much so that the new Director-General has likewise introduced the  notion of a new economic and soclal order, In the general debale there was specific discussion of a new  economic, social and cultural order, It follows that ''a new international order" is a global concept of  which I hope that account will be taken by the delegate of the United Kingdom and which should be included  in the text as submitted by the Working Group. Thank you very much, Mr, President,
60, The PRESIDENT: , |  I thank the distinguished delegate of Peru. I now call on the distinguished delegate of the  United Kingdom,
61, Mr. MARTIN (United Kingdom): Lo CL
1 am sorry to speak again, Mr. President, but in view of the remarks just made by the dis-  tinguished delegate of Peru perhaps I should speak. I do appreciate his point, but I think if he
37 used wording of the kind that he has just used, he is taking us beyond the proper scope of 'item 12. 4  of our agenda, aa defined in the heading of document 18 C/113, and I am afraid that I must there-  fore maintain my point. Thank you, Mr, President,
62,1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the disiinguished delegate of the United Kingdom,
62.2 As there are ro other remarks I call on the Secretary to rémind us of amendments proposed  to the introductory part of the draft resolution,  PA
63, The SECRETARY:  Mr. President, there were two amendments proposed to the introductory part of the resolution,  The first one refers to the eighth paragraph, which starts with "Convinced that interdependence  involving, x ", and the amendment which was proposed by the United Kingdom consists in replacing  the words "of a new world order' towards the end of the paragraph by the words "of a new inter-  national economic order",
64,1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I put that amendment to the vote,  (A vote was taken by show of hands)
64.2 The amendment is adopted by 53 votes to 9, with 23 abstentions,
65. The SECRETARY:  The next amendment was proposed by the delegate of Colombia, who suggested that, after  the paragraph beginning with "Convinced that interdependence, ..", we should add a new paragraph  to read: ''Considering that for the establishment of a new international economic order it is urgent  to face the problems 6f hunger and malnutrition in thé less.developed countries and also necéssary  for Unesco to co-operate effectively in the emergency and medium- and long-term programmes  that may be undertaken by States and by the other organizations of the United Nations system on  the basis of the recommendations of the World Food Conference",
66,1 The PRESIDENT:
1 am going to put to the vote the amendment proposed by Colombia.  (A vote was taken by show of hands)
66.2 The amendment proposed by Colombia is adopted by 58 votes to 1, with 12 abstentions.
66.3 The distinguished delegate of the United Kingdom has the floor.
67.1 Mr. MARTIN (United Kingdom):  Thank you, Mr. President. In speaking for a third time I hope to speed up work and not  impede it, The Conference agreed by a substantial majority to the amendment in phraseology  that I proposed to the eighth paragraph of the preamble, The same problem occurs in other para-  graphs of the resolution. For instance, in the tenth paragraph-of the introduction; for instance,  in the last consideranda before we come to Part I; for instance, in paragraph 5 (b) of Part I.  In paragraph 1 of Parti], there is a referenca to "a new international economic and social order".
67,2 I would hope, Mr, President, that it could be agreed that the Secretariat should be entrusted  with the task of cleaning up this resolution, so that each time there is the crucial phrase, it would  bé the phrase which was included in our agenda item, namely, "new international economic order",  Thank you, Mr, President.
68, Tire PRESIDENT:  If there are no speakers on that particular poînt, it will be done.
(69,1) Mr, CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish): +, ,  . Mr. President, [am sorry to speak again, Referring particularly to the remarks of the distinguished  delegate of the United Kingdom, 1 would point out that this is not a matter of making the style uniform;  ' what we are dealing with 18 a concept which continues to be enriched as men continue to reflect, The  General Assembly of the United Nations reflécted on a new International economic order; very well - that  was (he frame of reference and that was the objective; we, however, are fully entitled to think further,
(69,2) If, therefore, it is proposed to refer throughout to a new international economic order, it seems to  me that this would be to lose the value of a new contribution and a new conception which niay be offered by  Unesco, which the Working Group unanimously affproved and which has been confirmed in thé debates in  plenary, The new world order, the new total order for mankind, involves not only a change in the under-  lying economic structure but also implies changes in social relationships and changes in people's view of  the world - in philosophy and in culture, If we fail to think of such things, who is going to think of them?
(69.3) It is not a matter of stylistic conetstency but of conception; for this reason I ask the delegate of  the United Kingdom to be less insistent on a style which would entail total standardization and would put  the same form of words, "a new International economic order", throughout, ! hope that he will consider -  that all of us will consider - whether or not it is desirable for Unesco to contribute to giving the problem  new dimensions, for the purpose of restructuring this world of domination and exploitation so as to make  of it a world In which all men can be free, all societies can be just, fn which new conceptions and new  visions of culture will emerge and which will show that man in his long and ¢hangeful journey through  history, so full of bloodshed and exploitation, is able to make the earth a fit abode for man, Therelis thus  in this more than a simple matter of wording, 1 therefore ask your indulgence, Mr. President, for hav-  ing spoken once again, for this is an essential matter, Thank you very much,
70. The PRESIDENT:  The distinguished delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany has the floor,
71.1 Mr, PETERSEN (Federal Republic of Germany): . .  Thank you, Mr, President. I should like to voice my delegation's support for the suggestion  made by the delegate of the United Kingdom. I feel that we just cannot go beyond what is inscribed  in our agenda, and this is clearly Unesco's contribution to a new international economic order,
71.2 Mr, President, besides this, the delegate of the United Kingdom mentioned the phraseology  in paragraph 1 of Part I, where it Is said "Takes note with satisfaction of document 18 c/103  submitted by the Director-General on Unesco's contribution to the establishment of a new inter-  national economic and social order;". The heading of the document we refer to is "Unesco's  contribution to the establishment of a new international economic order" and nothing else. So  it is a matter, rather, of correctness, than of taking any stand on what would be desirable for  our Organization to do when it comes to contributing to establishing a new order in our world,  Thank you, Mr, President, . :  Dhl ; .
72.1 The PRESIDENT: . .  I thank the distinguished delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany.
72.2 I now call on the Chairman ôf the Working Group.
73.1 Mr. WYNTER (Jamaica) (Chairman of the Working Group): 10, ;  Mr. President, I should not like to enter into the debate, but I should like to ‘explain, as thé  delegate of Perl, who was à'iémber of the Working Group, has explained; that each tem was  deliberately put in; if was not inadvertently done. Obviously, the plenary id sovereign and may  correct and ‘amend what thé’ Working ‘Group proposes, but I'should like the téim "few international  economic ordek' to be üsed in most of the introductory paragraphs ss the representative of the  United Kirigdom has suggested; and that is when‘ referring to the Declaration'and the Programme  of Action, ! To ' ’
73.2 But, Mr. President, whéh it comes to operative paragraph 1, the term''the establishmént’  of & new économie and'Roëlél ‘ordér” was deliberatély put in by the Working Group in reference to  document 18 C/103 because, Mr, President, that document coritains the Difector-General's  reflections on thé whole subject. And on behalf of the Working Group, I should like to refer  specifically to paragraphs'17, 18 and 19'of that doéument where the Director: Géteral says that :  the main ornission in the Declaration pertaihs to the socio-cultural dimension 6f development. He  gives the reason; he ‘says this is understandable, because people were looking at thé basic ecénémic  conditions ‘of a'new world order, ' He dald they weré perfectly justified. However, he gdeb on,  once these econornit bhses have béen established, it fs necessary, none the léss, to recall thé  essential importance of socio-cultural faétôrs {n the pattern and the ultimate purpose of develop!
37 ment, Then he says the soolal dimension In the broadest sense is thus implicitly reintegrated  in the endeavour to establish a new world order, The Director-General says this must be ex-  plicitly recognized; ho says that Unesco must stress this point whenever there is an opportunity  to do so within the appropriate international bodies, and he goes on in paragraph 18 to develop  the theme. He refers to Objectives 6,1, 6,3, 6.3 and 6, 4 in dooument 18 C/4 under the concepts  and methodologies of development. And in paragraph 19, he carries this further, He says lastly  that there is a vital corollary to the ideas expressed in the Declaration which was not included in it  and which in’the opinion of the Director-General should receive Unesco's attention and should call  for an effort on its part to promote both research and information, comparable to the effort  already mentioned in connexion with the socio-cultural aspect of development.
73.3 In other words, this particular clause is dealing with docurnent 18 c/103, in which the  Director-General calls on the Conference to interpret this economic order as far as Unesco's  competence goes, within the context of Unesco's competence, and not isolatirig economic develop-  ment from social and cultural’development. And that 1s why this clause was worded in that way.  I am not saying that the clause is perfect, but I am trying to explain the thinking behind the Working  Group's proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
74. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of the Working Group, Now I call on the distinguished delegate of France.
75. M. BATAULT (France), -  Monsieur le Président, je voulais simplement dire que je partage pleinement la manière de  voir du délégué du Royaume-Uni.
76, The PRESIDENT: |  I thank the distinguished delegate of France, Now I call on the distinguished delegate of the  Netherlands,
77.1 M, de HOOG (Pays-Bas), -  Monsieur le Président, j'ai bien écouté tant la proposition de notre collègue du Royaume-Uni,  qui vient d'être appuyée par notre collègue de la France, que l'explication donnée par le Président  du Groupe de travail, et je crois qu'il y a du vrai dans les deux observations.
77,2 En effet, le paragraphe 1 de la Section I se réfère à un document du Directeur général dont  le titre mentionne uniquement l'instauratiôn d'un nouvel ordre économique international. D'autre  part, toute notre discussion vise A dire au monde, aux Nations Unies et au Conseil économique et  social qu'il ne s'agit pas seulement de facteurs économiques, idée qui s'exprime d'ailléurs dans  le douzième considérait, dont voici le'texte: "Estimant que l'instaurâtion d'un nouvel ordre éco-  nomique international dépend non seulement de facteurs politiques et économiques mais aussi de  factèurs socloculturels dont le rôle dans le ‘développement ne cesse dé croître et qui sont essen-  tiels dans la lutte des peuples contre toute forme de domination", Il me semble, Monsieur le Pré-  sident, que ce texte devrait, en raison du Caractère essentiel qu'il revêt à nos yeux, être trans-  féré dans le dispositif.
17,3 Je pense donc que, dans la Partie I du dispositif, nous pourrions laisser à sa place, avec  l'amendement proposé par la délégation britannique, le paragraphe 1, où il est simplement fait  mention du document 103 dont le titre ne se réfère qu'à l'instauration d'un novel ordre économi-  que international, Mais je propose qu'on introduise ensulte dans le dispositif, en tant que nouveau  paragraphe 2 ou nouveau paragraphe 3, un texte qui reprendrait les termes du douzième considé-  rant et se lirait donc comme suit : "’Estime que l'instaurafion d'un nouvel ordre économique inter-  national dépend ... ete,'. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
78. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of the Netherlands. Now I call on the distinguished delegate  of Algeria,
79, M, ANNABI (Algérie). - ;( _ oo  . Monsieur le Président, après les explications très claires du Président du Groupe de travail,  il semble évident que l'expression "nouvel ordre mondial" est parfaitement justifiée. J'ai d'ail-  leurs voté tout à l'heure contre l'amendement présenté par le délégué du Royaume-Uni parce que  j'étais défavorable à la modification d'un paragraphe où se trouvait exposée, sous forme de consi-  dérations générales, une-vision d'un monde qui serait basé sur la justice et l'égalité et constitue-  rait véritablement un nouvel ordre mondial. D'autre part, cette expression a été employée par  plusieurs chefs de délégations au cours du débat de politique générale ; elle l'a été aussi au cours  du débat sur le document présenté par le Directeur général, Elle figure même, je le signale,  dans le document 18 C/103 au paragraphe 60, où le Directeur général conclut : "Or les principes  dont se réclament la Déclaration et le Programme d'action se veulent essentiellement deg prin-  cipes de justice, C'est pour cela qu'ils visent à l'établissement d'un nouvel ordre mondial", Je  suis donc favorable au maintien de cette expression chaque fois que cela sera nécessaire, Peut-  ttre, s'il fallait faire une distinction, pourrait-on poser en principe que l'expression "nouvel  ordre mondial" se juatifie chaque fois que l'on se réfère à une vision générale de l'hümantté nou-  velle. Par contre, si l'on se réfèré plus précisément à l'application de la Déclaration et du Pro-  gramme adoptés par l'Assemblée générale à sp sixième session spéciale, on pourrait parler de  nouvel ordre économique international, Merci, Monsieur le Président,
80, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Algeria. Now I call on the distinguished delegate of  Chile,
(81) Mr, THAYER (Chile) (Translation from the Spanish): .  Mr. President, It appears to me that our discussion has led to a certain amount of confusion which  it is important to try to clear up; on this matter ! very largely accept the explanation given by the Chair-  man of the Working Group, which, ! think, is relevant to what is basically at'issue but which, neverthe-  less, does not avoid the pitfall of niaking an extensive revision of each of the provisions of the draft  which we are studying, What is its subject? The item of the Agenda reads: "Ways and means by which  Unesco should contribute, in its fields of competence, to the establishment of a new international economic  order's Obviously this is the subject; the ways In which Unesco can contribute to this new international  economic order. However, when we begin to study in what ways an organization specializing in education,  science, culture and communication çan contribute to a new international economic order, it is clear that  the measures which Unesco is able to put into effect in many cases go beyond the strictly economic com-  pass of the subject dealt with by the United Nations; this 18 what has to be considered in the draft which we  are studying: and when we refer specifically to the subject, that subject is the new international ecoramic  order. We cannot change what has been brought to Unesco's cognizance, but when we think about Unesco's  mission we must certainly go beyond exclusively economic matters, as has been suggested here, That is  all, Mr, President,
82, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Chile. Now I call on the distinguished delegate of  Afghanistan,
83. Mr. ETEMADI (Afghanistan):  Thank you, Mr. President. With your permission I would like to propose an amendment to  Part I, paragraph 1, which, in the judgement of our delegation, may solve the difficulty we are  facing now, and will help us to move on. I propose the paragraph should read: "Takes note with  satisfaction of document 18 C/103 submitted by the Director-General",
84.1 The PRESIDENT:  That has been noted.
84.2 The distinguished delegate of Morocco has the floor,
85.1 M. EL FASI (Maroc). - :  Monsieur le Président, je pense que, si la diséussion est un peu confuse, c'est parce que les  uns parlent d'wié question, et les autres d'une autre.
85.2 D'une part, la délégation du Royaume-Uni nous a proposé de dire "international" au leu de  "mondial" et nous avoris voté là-dessus, Cette proposition, sur laquelle je me guls abstenu, a été  acceptée.
85,3 D'autré part, il a été question d'ajouter le mot "so¢ial" au mot "économique", "A ce propos,  le délégué des Pays-Bas a proposé que l'on insère dans le texte un nouveau paragraphe od serait  évoquée l'idée d'un ordre "social", la partie sur laquelle nous avons déjà voté Étant conservée —  telle quelle. J'appuie cette proposition, car elle représente à mes yeux un compromis qui me pa-  raft répondre exactement aux préoccupations du Groupe de travail et à celles de la Conférence gé-  nérale. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
86. The PRESIDENT: :  I thank the distinguished delegate of Morocco. Now I cali on the Deputy Director-General.
87.1 Mr, FOBES (Deputy Director-General): oo  I thank you, Mr. President, There fs no question but the correct title of the agenda item and  the correct title of the Declaration should be used whenever that is appropriate. However, it  certainly is important to recall in the appropriate manner, in Part I that, as the Chairman of the
37 Working Group stressed, the Director-General in the docurnent referred to in operative ‘paragraph 1,  did speak about thé importance of Unesco insisting upon the socio-cultural dimension of develop-  ment. Therefore the suggestion of the delegate of the Netherlands, now referred to by the delegate  of Morocco, seems to be a very sultable solution, namely to introduce early in Part I, the para-  graph which is now in the preamble and which shows that this Conference considers that it is not  only the politi¢al and économie factors, but also the socio-cultural factors in development, which  are constantly growing,
87.2 And in that sense it 18 a logical development, Mr. President. The United Nations General  Assembly, ih launching the Second Developmént Decade, said it was to create a ‘more just and  rational economic and social order; the Economic and Sootal Council in the ‘resolution 1911 which  i8 referred to here, and 18 the key to your action, says "acknowledging the Importance of integra-  ting economic and social approaches in development strategies'., AN of this, Mr, President,  suggests that the proposal made by the delegate of Afghanistan, if supplemented by the paragraph  proposed by the Netherlands, meets the problem now facing the Conference, Thank you,  Mr. President,
88. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Deputy Director-General. ‘The representative of the Executive Board has the  floor, ’ :
(89,1) Mr, BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia) {Vice-Chairman of the Executive Board) {Translation from  «the Spanish): ’ — .  Mr, President I should like to make a slight suggestion concerning paragraph 5, sub-paragraph (2),  in Section I, which refers to education for rural development, | make this suggestion on the basis of  resolution 1,27, approved by the General Conference at its session in 1972, and of the studies made by  the Executive Board on the same subject of rural development, The intended purpose is to broaden the  concépt of rural development beyond the contribution of education, that'is té say, to extend ft'to the con-  tribution which all sectors of Unesco may make to rural development,
(89.2) To this end, | would propose the following wording: ''Rural development within Unesco's fields  of competence"; in this way, the problem would be approached as a whole, and what the General  Conference and the Executive Board really said would be reflected, Thank you very much,  Mr. President,
90. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the representative of the Executive Board. The distinguished delegate of Colombia  has the floor,
(91) Mr. GALAN (Colombia! (Translation from the Spanish):  ; Mr, President, as I said when I'proposed the addition of a preambular paragraph, I éhould aléo like  to suggest the addition of a fürthék paragréph In the operativé part; Sectlor I, after paragraph 5, worded  as follows: ‘Co-operation ih the implementation of the recommendationé adopted Ly the World Food :  Confetenétë in view of the fact that at that Conference the discussion took a comprehenslye view of the  problem of hunger and malnutrition and {ndependently of the problems of production, trade, ete, which  fall within the competence of other bodies, Unesco should take account of the specific problems of the  nutrition of children, the particular problems of education, with regard to diet, ete,", Thank you very  much, Mr, President.
92. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the distinguished delegate of Colombia, The distinguished delegate of France has the  floor, , ’ :
93. M. BATAULT (Frahée)- ~~ °° ue +  Monsieur 1è Président, je crols me faire l'interprète des neuf pays de‘la Communauté écono-
310   mique européenne en proposant de supprimer, au paragraphe 4 de la Partie I, le membre de phrase  suivant : "visant A créer une structure mondiale sans domination et composée de sociétés justes et  libres, ayant atteint un niveau de développement équilibré et naturel”, En effet, cés idées figurent  déjà dans ce que j'appellerai l'exposé des motifs et leur rappel ici constitue uné tautologie. La  suppression de ce membre de phrase allègerait donc le téxte sans l'appauvrir, Le paragraphe 4 °  ainsi modifié se liralt donc ainsi : "Reconnaft que'la contribution de l'Unesco à la promotion d'un  nouvel ordre économique et social devrait consister à introduire un type rénové d'éducation ...",  etc. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
94. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the esteemed delegate of France, I now call on the distinguished delogate of the  Federal Republic of Germany,
95,1 Mr, PETERSEN (Federal Republic of Germany): ‘  Thank you, Mr, President. 1 should like to move another amendment. And this one would be  an amendment to paragraph 5 in Part I ol the draft resolution, under sub-paragraph (1) (a). Here,  a study 1s proposed "... of problems, promotion of reflection and general dissemination of know-  ledge and ideas concerning the concept of a new international economic order established on a more  equitable and more human beasis,...'. I would propose that we put a full stop here, and delete  the rest of this sub-paragraph (1) (a).
95.2 Mr. President, As in other parts of this draft resolution, principles are recalled which have  been discussed at the sixth special session of the General Assembly in New York, principles which  form part of the consensus which was reached in New York. Most of these principles, in the view  of my Government, are of a purely economic character and are of prime concern to the United  Nations itself and'to some other agencies, but not to the same extent to Unesco. My own Govern-  ment made a number of substantive reservations, in New York especially, to the effect that these  principles should be interpreted in a way which fully respects established rules of public inter-  national law. We feel, Mr. President, that we should not permit ourselves, that is to say our  Organization, to give way to any ambiguous interpretation by repeating a number of principles  without making it clear that there was not complete una.dmity as far as the interpretation is con-  cerned. Ido not feel it appropriate to repeat in this respect everything put forward by our  delegation at the sixth special session of the General Assembly because our reservations, as well  as the points they were referring to, dealt with concepts of economic policy which clearly dé not  fall within the competence of Unesco. The adoption of the amendment 1 have just proposed would  have the effect of doing away with one of our major concerns in this respect. If I may repeat,  . Mr. President, we propose in Part I, paragraph 5, sub-paragraph (1) (a), that we put a full stop  after the words "on a more equitable and more human basis'', and delete the rest. Thank you,  Mr, President.
96. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the distinguished delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany. Now I call on the dis-  tinguished delegate of Peru.
(97.1) ‘Mr, CHIAPPO (Peru) (Tre aslation from the Spanish):  Mr, President, I take the floor once again because important matters are at stake. Things cannot  simply be deleted; things are not merely words, they are realities,
(97.2) Mr, President, we worked in the Working Group under tae distirgs!shed chairmanship of  Senator Wynter and we agreed to defend the document together In the fern in which we had submitted it,  For this reason, the delétion requested by the delegate of Francè in fAragraph 4 robs the entire passage  of {ts meaning, because when we ack for what purpose Unesco shou) , contribute to promoting a new  economic ard social order, or for what purpose this new eccnomir, and social order is to be brought into  being, it is undoubtedly for some purpose or other; {t is for the purpose of creating a world structure free  of domination, in other words it is in order lo pass beyond the present situation and create just and free  societies at a balanced and natural, level of development; in other words it is an entire project for the  history of man, '
(97.3) Unesco fé té contribute to all this through a particular type of education; not an imposed, authori-  tarian and élitist education, but a free education open to all; not through a science the applications of  which destroy nature, but through a science which ia at the service of mankind and re-establishes harmony  with nature; not through a culture of domination, but with a culture and a cultural policy of liberation; and  not with a communication system monopolized by bureaucratic groups or groups of private monopolies,  but a fully democratic use of information,
(97.4) “Thus, the entire draft is carefully thought out and pondered, Deletions cannot be made in order to  lighten it, -What are we afraid of? We are afraid of the weight of the truth which we wish to lighten, and  the truth 1s that we aspire to establish a world structure free of domination; to this end, a new economie  order must be created, Accordingly, as the delegate of my country and ac a member of the Working  Group, | appeal to the delegate of France to reconsider the deletion which he proposes, because it implies  support for the survival of a world structure of domination; for the continued existence of oppressed  societies; for the continuation of a headlong and hypertrophic freney of development which is exhausting  the planet and contaminating and poisoning the earth, Is this what he wants?
(97.5) With regard to the amendment proposed by the Federal Republic of Germany in Part I, paragraph 5,  sub-paragraph (1Xa), we ask ourselves: in the light of what criteria are we to study problems, and to  promote reflection and general dissemination of knowledge and ideas coAcerning the concept of a new inter-  national economic order on a more equitable and more human basis? But in the light of what eritéria?  There fs here a political line which is close to the Declaration of the Assembly. The entire paragraph  therefore should be retained in order to indicate the criteria, and the framework within which this study  of problems is to be made,
(97,6) If we delete the last part, the matter remains vague and we dé not know what knowledge is to be  disseminated, which problems are to be studied or which {dean ire to be held. We might as well delete  the entire text, Every word has been considered, Mr. President, and we must not ask for deletions just  because ft fs tiring to reréad things: things are meant to be read and pondered; for this reason we are in  favour of retaining the text of paragraph 4 as it stands and also of keeping paragraph 5, sub-paragraph(1)}{a):  the first, because it indicates precisely what the purposes of the new internationul order are: the second,  because it sets forth the criteria in the light of which the studies of problems end the promotionof reflection  and the disgemination of knowledge are to be undertaken, Thank you, Mr. President,
98. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Peru, Inow call on the Chairman of the Working Group.
99,1 Mr, WYNTFR (Jamaica) {Chairman of the Working Group):  Mr. President, I should just like to make one point which might help us tô move on, because
1 have gathered from the General Committee thai we have not got any other meetings at which to  discuss this.
99.2 What is happening now, Mr. President, and members must forgive me for saying it,” is that  the amendnients being moved now are the amendments of the original resoluilons which we were  given to consider, éupectally of the résolution in document 18 C/PLEN/DR; 13, The cläûses'being  amended now are clauses from that résolution. When we met as a Working Group we did not have  the advantage of knowing these amendments, which we might have hoped would have beef movéd  during the debate. We would then Have been able to work them into our’ resolution as a team. But  what we find now Is that except for the amendment moved by France, to which my colleague from
312   Peru has responded, the amendments which I have heard are amendments to the original draft  resolutions, so you must forgive the Working Group if {ts members thought they were working  within the context of the debate, and now we find that that is not so,  , Sov Wd .
99.3 Mr, President, I would just like to comment on one amendment,” which is.& very helpful one  as far as the Working Group is concerned, and this is the propnsal made by the representative of  the Netherlands, which I think actually helps with regard to Part I, operative paragraph 1 - For,  Mr. President, I repeat, the only amendment we knew of was the one moved by the Soviet delega-  tion to the originel draft resolution in document 18:C/PLEN/DR, 13 which referréd to thé same  paragraph: "Takes note with satisfaction. ." but there was no “eference to the rest'éf the para. -  graph during the general debate.’ I think that taking out the word "socfal" from this paragraph and  inserting what the Netherlands proposed as an operative paragraph would certainly meet tha inten.  tion of the general debate and also what the Working Group did in reflecting the general debate.  Rut I do hope, Mr. President, that the avendments will not be so many that we cannot adopt this  resolution this afternoon, Thank you.
100, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of the Working Group and I now call on the distinguished delegate of  Algeria,
10i.1 M. ANNABI (Algérie), -  Monsieur le Président, j'avais en fait demandé la parole avant l'intervention du distingué Pré-  sident du Groupe dé travail, pour rappeler précisément, er tant que cosignataire du projet dé ré-  solution 18 C/PLEN/DR. 13, que nous avions accepté qu'un groupe de travail soit constitué pour  amalgamer en un texte unique les amendements présentés au cours du débat, en prenant pour base  de départ le projet de résolution 18 C/PLEIN/DR.13.. Le Groupe de travail a réussi 4 faire cette  synthèse, Il nous a présenté un texte sur lequel ses membres ont réalisé un large consensus et  je m'étonne que ce soient précisément ceux qui emploient volontiers ce terme de consensus qui  muliiplient maintenant les amendements.
101,2 Nous ne pouvons en aucune manière, je tiens à le dire très nettement, accepter que notre  projet de résolution soit défiguré quant A l'essentiel ou que les résultats des travaux du Groupe  soient laissés de côté. Au surplus, il m'est difficile de comprendre les réticences du représen-  tant de la République fédérale d'Allemagne au sujet du paragraphe 5, alinéa 1, De quéi s'agit-il  en effet dans cet alinéa : de l'étude de problèmes, de la promotion de la réflexion, de la diffusion  d'idées. Aurait-on peur de la vérité que l'on refuse ces études, ces recherches sur la promotion  de l'égalité souveraine des Etats, de leur autodétermination ? Je ne vois aucune raison suffisante  de proposer la suppression de cette énumeration.
101,3 En conséquence, Monsieur le Président, je souhaite que l'on ne multiplie pas les amende-  ments et que la Conférence générale, suivant l'exemple du Groupe de travail, approuve à l'unani-  mité le projet de résolution à l'étude. Merci, Monsieur le Président,
102. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Algeria and I now call on the distinguished delegate of  France,
103, M, BATAULT (France). -  Monsieur le Président, veuillez m' excuser de reprendre la parole, Je serail très bref, Je  voudrais simplement dire, pour répondre au délégué du Pérou, qu'il s'agit à nos yeux d'un docu-  ment opérationnel dans lequel il nous paraît inutile de revenir constamment sur les principes qui  nous animent et sur lesquels nous sommes tous d'accord, De telles répétitions ne peuvent qu'alour -  dir ce document. Telle est également la raison pour laquelle je suis prôt à accepter les modifica-  tions proposées, en ce qui concerne le paragraphe 5,1, par le délégué de la République fédérale  d'Allemagne. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
104, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate c of France and now I call on the distinguished delegate of  the Ukraine.
105.1 I'-x 10H, KOYYBEH (Yxpannokan Coeerckaa Counanucruyecxan Pecny6nHka):  Bnaroxapp pac, rôcnoanx lpeaceaarens, I'-H Ipeacexarens, Aenerauds YxpanHckoR ccP no-  NpUCH/AA CHOBA ANA TOTO, UTOÔH NOAREPKXATL COABTOPOR NPOEKTA Pe3ONDUHK 18 C/PLEN/DR.13 #  OLLOHHTb NMONOXHTEALHYD paGory Pa6oveft rpynns,
105,2 Hama nenerauxa cuxraer, YTO AeHOTAHTEABHO COBCOM Heuenecoo6pasno 2aHOBO OTKPHBATb  NPerHs NO yKa3aHHOMy AOKyMeHTy, Mu yMO1THOMOYHIE PaGouyn rpynny O60614HTb BCE Te NONpPaBxy,  KOTOPEE BHOCHAHCEH AENOraiKAMH NPH O6CYXACHHH AOKyMeHTa 18 C/PLEN/DR. 13, a cefuac BHoBs  MOABNANTCA HOBHE MOMEHTH, BHOCATCA HOBtle NPEANOXEHHA.
105.3 JHeneraunn YxpaHHckoit CCP cuutaer, uto peayasrar pa6orn PasoueH Tpynnu prionke c6anan-  CHPORAH, YPABHOBEMEH H MOXAT OTREUATH HHTOPECAM H MNOHHMAHKD GONBMRHOTBA RAenerauxñ, Hraue  Hama Aerérauxsa Toxe 6r/a 6M TOTOBA BHOCHTE NOMPABKH, KOTOPHE yCHAHBAKT AGHHHÉ AOKyMeHT, e  Hamel TOUKH 3PeEHHH, AIA TOTO YTOGÏH MNOAYEPKHYTb ACHOTBHTEABHBE CBA3H JI 3ABHCHMOCTE MOXAY
37 npobAeMaMH YCTAHOBNEHHA HOBOTO SKOHOMHY6CKOTO MOPRAKA'H KOPEHHBMMH COLKANbHHMH npeobpa3o=  .BAHHAMH, MK Ho HAGM NO STOMY NyTH, He BHOCHM AOMOAHKTOABHLX MONPABOK, NOTOMY YTO HOXOAHM  H3 TOro, TO y Hac Ha KoHdepeHUHH NPeACTABAGHE pasnHYHHe COLHA/IEHLIE CHOTEME UH, BHAHMO, AN  TOr'0, YTOOM LH NPHHAT MAKCHMA/BHO NONEIHHNA AOKYMOHT, HAMHM Ze/NeralHald HOOÔXOAHMO HATH Ha  BIBHMHLIO yoTynKH, Hexars HaH601ee npMemaeMui KOUNpouHeC,  LS Pa
105 A ‘Hama Aenerayta HHKOHM e6pasom He MOXeT. cornacHThon c nonpasxeux; KOTOPHE BHOCHTCA  AGAGLAUHANH Ppanuun,; Penepatuenoñ Pecny6nuxoit DepmauxH, Mer GUHTAAM, UTO MX (ONPABKH, HCK-  Apyapmie ; GHAYHTENEHYN:VACTb TOKCTA, CYMECTBÉHHO HIMEHANT COROPXAHHE NPOGKTA PO30NDUHH
18 C/PLEN/DR. 13, pHeceHHOro OT HMeHH 60AbmWOH rpynns cTpaH; H CBOAAT HA HET Pe3yNBLTATH pa-
60TH, xOTOpas Guna npoaenaHa PaGoyel rpynnoñ. Y Hamed Aenerauuy BHI BART HeAOyMeHHe BO3-  PaxeHHa NPOTHB TAKHX NONOXEHHÂ, Kak, CKAXEM, MONOXEHHE O NPABO HEPOAOB, HAXOAAMHXCSK MOA KO-  NROHRA/NBHEM H PACOBHM FPOCNOACTROM, AOGHBATLCA CROÈTO OCBOGOXACHHA, Mil, KOHEUHO, TAKHX non=  PaBoK NpHHATL He MOXeM, Braronapp sac, r-H lipeacesarens,
(105.1) Mr. KOCHUBEI (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr, President, Mr. President, the delegation of the Ukrainian SSR has asked to speak in  order to support the co-authors of draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 13 and to express {ts satisfaction with  what the Working Group has done,
(105.2) Our delegation feels that it is really quite inappropriate to reopen the debate on this text. We  gave the Working Group full powers to examine all amendments presented by delegations in the debate on  document 18 C/PLEN/DR, 13 and now new points are again emerging and new proposals are being put  forward,
(105.3) The delegation of the Ukrainian SSR thinks that what thé Working Group has produced is complstely  balanced and well proportioned and can satiéfy the intérésls and understanding of most delegations, Other-  wise, our delegation would also be prepared to introduce amendments to strengthen the text, from our  point of view, in order to stress the effectual links between, and inter-dependengy of, the problems of  establishing a new economic order and radical social changes. We are not doing so and we are not  introducing further amendments because our view is that, seeing that a varlety of social systems are  represented at our Conference, it is obvious that, for a text of the maximum possible use to be adopted,  our delegations must make mutual concessions and geek the most acceptable compromise,
(105.4) Our delegation cannot possibly agree with the ameridments proposed by the delegations of France  and the Federal Republic of Germany. We consider that their amendments, which exclude a significant  proportion of the text, substantially change the content of draft resolution 18 C/PLEN/DR, 13, gubmitted  on behalf of a large group of countries, and nullify ‘the efforts of the Working Group, Our delegation is  bewildered by the objections to such provisions as, for example, that concerning the right of nations  under colonial and racist rule to strive for their freedom. We, of course, cannot accept such amendments,  Thank you, Mr, President, 2
106. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of the’ Ukraine and now I call 'ôn the distinguished delegate  of the United Kingdom,
107.1 Mr. MARTIN (United Kingdom):  Thank you, Mr, President, I hope to speak now for the last time in this discussion, Ido  appreciate very much the spirit behind the interventions of the distinguished delegate of Peru, but  on the other hand, I hold to my view that it helps, and does not hinder, to use, wherever possible,  language which already has authority within the United Nations system. This being go, I am very  happy to be able to support the suggestion which was made by the distinguished delegate of Algeria,  namely that wherever it Would bé technically correct and accurate to use the phrase ' ‘new inter-  natlonal economic order" because the context is the resolutions’of the Genéral Assembly, then  the text should be tidied up fn that way. This would go a long" way towards satisrying me,
107.2 also take, howéver, ‘the comménts ‘made by the Dépiity ‘Director General about the intro-  duction of the particular context of Unesco's discussions of the soclo-cultural dimension, and  because of this, I agree that there may be occasions when it might be right to refer to an inter-  national economic and social order and not simply to an international economic order.
107.3 Having said that, Mr. President, let me just add, briefly, that I do support the proposals"  of the distinguished delegate of the Netherlands, and also the proposal made by the diatinguished  delegate of the Féderal Republic of Germany.
107.4 One last comment, Mr. Presidént, tnd this 1s ‘an à effort to be constructive, In Part I,  paragraph 5 (1) (b), it is said "study and publication df the factors which might impede efforts  to establish a new economic order". And here I would say it would be right to refer to a new  intérnationsl economic ordér. But it occurs to me that it might be. more constructive and positive  to répldce the word "impede" by the word "facilitate. And as Î say, Mr; President, I hope that  is my last Intervention on this item. Thank you very much, ‘
108. The PRESIDENT:  I'thahk the’ distinguished delegate of the United Kingdom, and I call on the élettngutshed delegate  of Sweden. ’
109.1. Mr, ALLGARDH (Sweden): \ ; 4 re, 37  Thank you, Mr. President, As a member of the Working Group, I will just confirm that we  worked and that there was some difference of opinion, but that efforts were really made to meet  all different opinions and, as far as I have seen it, a reasonable compromise was reached... More-  over, the Working Group also stressed that the resolution should be accepted by wide consensus.
109, 2 Sweden is quite prepared to vote in favour of the draft resolution as it ts, and I hope that the  General Conference will be ready to proceed very soon to a final vote on this very important  document on how Unesco should contribute to the Declaration and Programme of Action adopted  by the General Assembly of the United Nations,
110, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Swéden. I call on the distinguished delegate of Belgium  to take the floor.
111.1 M, VAN USSEL (Belgique), -  Monsieur le Président, en tant que membre du Groupe de travail, je voudrais sans tarder ras-  surer la Conférence générale en disant que la Belgique s'en tient au consensus et qu'elle demeure  favorable à l'adoption du projet de résolution.
111.2 Toutefois, je voudrais demander au distingué Président du Groupe de travail de bien vouloir  rappeler la genèse du paragraphe 4 qui a fait l'objet d'une proposition d'amendement de la France,  Si mes souvenirs sont exacts, seul le délégué du Pérou avait, hier après-midi, insisté pour le  maintien du membre de phrase dont la France suggère aujourd'hui la suppression, les autres  membres présents du Groupe de travail étant d'accord pour ne pas garder ce mémbre de phrase  - qui figurait d'ailleurs entre crochets dans le texte suggéré par le Président. Pour autant que je  m'en souvienne, ce n'est qu'à la fin de nos travaux, après 18 heures, que M, Wynter a proposé de  le conserver. Merci, Monsieur le Président,
112. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Belgium. Next I call the distinguished delegate of the  Netherlands,
113.1 M, de HOOG (Pays-Bas). -  Monsieur le Président, j'ai l'irrnression que nous avons abordé le dispositif avant d'en avoir  fini avec les considérants,
113.2 Quoi qu'il en soit, il me semble que la proposition que j'ai faite tout à l'heure touchant le  transfert du douzième considérant dans le dispositif a trouvé un assez largè appui. Je propose  maintenant formellement que ce considérant devienne le paragraphe 2 du dispositif.
113,3 J'appuie d'autre part les observations de notre distingué collègue du Royaume-Uni touchant  le paragraphe 5.1 (b). Je propose donc que, dans la version française, ce paragraphe soit rema-  nié de façon A se lire comme suit : "l'étude des facteurs qui pourraient renforcer les efforts visant  à instaurer un nouvel ordre économique international et la publication des résultats de cette étude".  Merci, Monsieur le Président.
114. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of the Netherlands. I call the distinguished delegate of the  Philippines.
115.1 Mr, CASTRO (Philippines):  Thank you, Mr. President. As a member of the Working Group, may I ‘tivat of all express  my appreciation for the honour and privilege I have had of working for the reconciliation of the  various amendments to the proposed draft resolution, Senator Wynter as Chairman of our Working  Group and the other members of the Committee have worked hard to come up with the draft reso-  lution in the Annex to document 18 C/133.
115.2 This document represents in our minds the credo of Unesco in the brave new world that  is unfolding before us, to bring forth economic justice for mankind. Since there is no question of  the willingness of the General Conference to contribute to the early and successful implementation  of the Déclaration, ‘I beliéve that we should heed what previous speakers have said a while ago,  particularly the Ambassador of Mexico, Mr. Cuevas Cancino, that this resolution, whichis a  happy compromise of the different amendments should be adopted in toto by as wide a consensus  as possible here in plenary. I thank you, Mr. President.
(117) Mr, CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translatioh from the Spanish):  - Mre President . The Working Group, as its Chairman, Senator Wynter, has said, worked hard and  intensively in an effori to achieve something which would be solidly supported, [ am extremely surprised  hy the statement just made by the delegate of Belgium and for this reason I draw your attentlon to it. If  the paragraph which we are discussing, number 4, concerning the world structure, without domination, .  had expressed an opinfon held only by the delegation of Peru, that paragraph would not have been Included  in the drâtt submitted by the Working Group. Cohjolhtly, therefore, we agreed not to add amendiments and  to support the document In its entirely, Consequently, Mr. President, it is abundantly cléar that this ie  the document submitted by the Working Group and there is no question of à phrase or an idea being peculiar  to one of its members, Thank you, Mr. President,
118, The PRESIDENT: :  I thank the distinguished delegate of Peru, Any more speakers? The distinguished delegate  of Zambia,
119,1 Mr, LOMBE (Zambia): ‘  Thank you Mr, President. My delegation has deliberately kept quiet, but taken a very keen  interest in the comments and contributions made here. One thing which seems to surprise us is  that we often, within a very short space of time, tend to go against the decisions which were  paesed,
119.2 I am saying this specifically in relation to the fact that we unanimously set up a committee  to look into this with the purpose of creating an atmosphere in which unanimity could be obtained,  Individually of course we know that unanimity does not and never will mean perfection. But for the  purpose of progress, for the purpose of reaching a working basis, Member States are prepared  to give and take and I think this was the spirit behind our setting up this Committee, because we  saw that the subjects before us were such that they could not be handled in a General Conference  of this nature, even over many weeks.
119, 3 Now we have a report and a set of resolutions presented by a working committee, and,  listening to the interventions, there is no question that Member States went very far to yield even  on points on which they felt or would have felt very strongly. It is paradoxical thdt after all this  work, we, who. trusted the Committee to come up with something that would reach, not perfection,  but general consensus, are now trying to get our own ideas incorporated. Are we reslly saying  that we should have been asked to sit on the Committee? If that is the case, one questions the  whole purpose of setting up a comMittee,
119,4 In short, Mr, President, I would like to say that for our part we always tend to respect  committees, because they usually give you a compromise working basis, ‘and for this reason we  will support the paper before us, We are not denying the right of Member States to make correc-  tions or little additions, and in one case we would in fact have brought up one such ourselves,  because the words "new international economic and social order" have been given such prominence  that they tend to deatroy the original theme,
119.5 With the amendment presented by the Netherlands, isolating the word "soclal", this is a  reasonable presentation, and as I sald this is a minor amendment which helps us to realize that  the theme is the new internatinrial economic order, and that within it there are considerations such  as social implications, which the Director-General In fact mentioned in his report. There is no  quarrel here; but if we start challenging a compromise text such as paragraph 4 or paragraph 5,  Section 1 (a), wé would be going back on our word,
119.6 Mr, President, we will vote for the paper as it stands or with any minor amendments  which just help us to correct the pattérn of presentation. Thank you.
120, The PRESIDENT:  . I thank the ‘distinguished delegate of Zambia. On a point of order, the distinguished delegate  of the Netherlands; .
121,1 M, de HOOG (Pays-Bas). -  Monsieur le Président, ne serait-il pas possible, pour gagner du temps, que vous repreniez  le document paragraphe par paragraphe en demandant, pour chaque paragraphe, s'il y a des propo-  sitions d'amendement et, le cas échéant, en mettant aux voix ces propositions.
121.2 Je profite de cette occasion pour dire que les deux amendements que j'ai moi-même propo-  sës n'ont, dans mon esprit, aucun caractère restrictif. De toute façon, ma délégation votera cer-  tainement en faveur du projet de résolution A l'étude ; mais cela ne saurait l'empêcher de’ cherchèr  à a améliorer le texte. C'est uniquement à cela qu'ont tendu mes efforts. Merci, Monsieur le  Pr sident, a. 6
122, The PRESIDENT; Co . oo ' 37  I thank the distinguished delegate of the Netherlands, I call the Chairman of the Working  Group.
123,1 Mr, WYNTER (Jamaica) (Chairman of the Working Group):  Mr. President, may I say that we are grateful for the support given to the Working Group  but, of course, we put siress on the request that it should reach as wide a consensus as possible.  Therefore, Mr, President, I should just like to recapitulate what we have done already.
123,2 Mr, President, we have already done the preambular clauses. There were two amend-  ments moved and they were accepted, one to paragraph 8 of the preamble, in which the delegate  of the United Kingdom asked that we should abide by the title as it stands, the new international  economic order, Then the delegate of Colombia moved a new preambular clause, which was  accepted, .
123.3 Now, Mr, President, we have reached Roman figure I and a number of proposals have been  made. It would seem to me, Mr, President, that it would not do justice to the Working Group  if the proposal moved by the representatives of Algeria, Netherlands, United Kingdom end Morocco  were accepted. Throughout the document, whenever a reference is being made specifically to the  new international economic order, it should be 60 referred to where it is a technical reference.  But where it means that we are inserting Unesco's approach, then we should approach it in that  way.
123,4 A clause that does not fit in either category and which leads to some debate 18'1 1, because  here it could mean the title, but it could also mean the Director-General's reference té socio-  cultural factors, It would seem, therefore, Mr. President, that the proposal of Afghanistan,  which is to state simply: "takes note with satisfaction of document 18 C/103 submitted by the  Director-General", is the answer, It Is factual and leads to no debate,
123.5 But we must now introduce the proposal moved by the Netherlands, to remove the pream-  bular clause which began: ‘‘Believing that the establishment of a new international economie  order depends not only on political and economic factors, but also on soclo-cultural' factors..."  The clause would bë moved from thé Preamble and would become clause I, 3, Perhaps the delegate  of the Néthérlands would prefer, insteat of "Considers", to say Declares’ - a reaffirmation.  That, Mr. President, as the representative of Zambla said a while ago, would actually strengthen  .the view of Unesco about the socio-cultural factors.
123.6 Now, Mr. President, with regard to paragraph 4, the répreésentative of Belgium has  referred to what took place in the Working Group. As Chairman, I think it is normal that Ido  not tell exactly who sald what and what happened inside the Working Group, ! might find that I  am transmitting something'in error and we might start an argument among ourselves. I think  there was, of course, an element of accuracy In what the representative of Belgium said, but we  did not have a lot of discussion on this, because it was an amendment moved in the debate by the  representative of Peru, dnd therefore we were frying to work it into thé text, The difficulty was  one of translation, and I think we worked on this and got something. And ft is true, -that in the  absence of the delegate of Peru, members did dlacuss the possibility of deleting the passage  beginning with "aimed at the creation” down to "level of development",
123.7 But it was eventually agreed that this should be discussed with the delegate of Peru. The  discussion took place, and as it was a provisional deletion, depending on his agreement, he did  not agree. . There was no fuss about jt, just a request. It was felt that the Working Group would  aceordingly leave it in and would fight for its retention, It can go. It is for you to decide, but  the Working Group presents it to you for a decision. 2
123,8 With regard to the amendment moved fn paragraph 5 (1) (a) by the representative of the  Federal Republic of Germany, this is a proposal which, as Chairman, I could not say the Working  Group accepts, It was discussed in the Working Group, and we came to the conclusion that this  passage should be presented as it {s at present, Therefore, Mr. President, it will have to be voted  on.
123.9 With regard to 5 (1) (b), I should like to say that the proposal of the representative of the  Netherlands improves the English. When hè takes away the word "publication" from the beginning,  and it reads: "study of the factors which might impede efforts to establish a new economic order  and publication of the findings of that study," we accept that as an Improvement.
123,10 But with regard to the proposal of the representative of the United Kingdom, that we  should replace "impede" by "facilitate" this is contrary to what the Working Group was proposing;  we were drawing not only from 18 C/PLEN/DR. 13, but also from 18 C/PLEN/DR. 15, which -  talked about the obstacles to development. It was felt very important to do research on the ob-  stacles to the establishment of a new economic order, because one might be able to find some of  the solutions. That is why the word "impede" was used, and I think. Mr, President, that that  ought to be voted on also, because it runs contrary to what we were proposing. - :
37 123,11 Then with regard to the proposal in 5 (2) made by the Vice-Chairman of the Executive  Board, to remove the words "education for", leavihg "rural dévelopment", which would be much  wider and of course Include science, culture, etc., Ido not think that members of the Working  Group would have any objection. I hope, Mr. President, that this may have helped us to know  where we are. Thank you, ' :
124,. The PRESIDENT: ‘  I thank the Chairman of the Working Group. Now I call | the distinguished delegate of Peru,
(125) Mr, CHIAPPO (Pétu) {Translation from the Spanish) :  Mr, President, 'I should nierély liké to put a quéstion to the Chatrrian of the Working Group which he  ‘ can answer if he seés fit. Did the Working Group, or did it not, agree to submit paragraph 4 as re see it  before us and in the form in which it has been read by all representatives of Member States? If {t was  agreed to submit the text as it fs, I see no reason for singling out one member of the Working Group. This  might be taken as implying that the Working Group was not united with regard to this paragraph, I there-  fore ask very respectfully: is the Working Group submitting paragraph 4? It is submitting it, and this is  the reason why it Is now before us. Thank you, Mr. President.
126. The PRESIDENT: :  I thank the distinguished delegate of Peru. The Chairman of the Working Group has the floor.
127. Mr. WYNTER (Jamaica) (Chairman of the Working Group):  Mr, President, I am sorry that in my intervention, I may have given the wrong impression,  to the represéntative of Peru. Iwas saying that we have solidarity here, we have a presentation  by the Working ‘Group. I was responding to the representative of Belgium, who indicated some-  thing that took part fn the absénce of the Êréprégentative of Péru from the meeting. The only  reasoh that I am mentioning the representative of Peru 1s'to explain to the Conference that this  was part of an amendment that was duly moved in the general debate by the representative of Peru,  Therefore we had this before us, justifiably and properly, and the question of deleting part of it  took place in his absence. On the basis of the direction I had from the other members, I consulted  him and the resulting decision wag that we would present and fight for it together. And I hope that  that fs what we are doing now. Thankyou, Mr. President.
128. The PRESIDENT: ; | ;
1 thank thé Chairman of the Working Party. I call the distinguished delegate of France,
129, M, BATAULT (France). -  Monsieur le Président, je m'excuse de reprendre la parole que'j'avais demandte’ avant que  ne parla le sénateur Wynter ; je voudrais saisir cette occasion pour lé remércier des explications  très claires qu'il nous a données, et aussi de l'excellent travail qu'a accompli le Groupe qu'il pré-  sidait. J'ajouteral simplement que je suis entièrement d'accord, mot pour mot si je puis dire,  avec-le ruprêsentant des Pays-Bas, Nous sommes tous én faveur de ce projet de résolution, mais  il s'agit d'un document opératfonnel important et nous cherchons simplement à l'améliorer. Puis-  qu'un certhin hombre d‘amendements ont déjà'été appuyés, nous gagnerions beaucoup de temps,  me semble-t-il en passant rapidement au vote sur ces amendements, sans nous attarder sur le  reste du texie, que nous approuvons tous quant au fond,
130. The PRESIDENT: ‘
1 thank the distinguished delegate of France, Now we shall proceed paragraph by paragraph,  including amendments. ‘
131, The SECRETARY:  Mi. Président, with regard to Part I, paragraph'1, several amendments were submitted.  The first améndment I have on my list is the amendment mentioned by the Chairman of the Working  Group and which the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republica proposed during the debate, -  This would consist In removing the words "with satisfaction" from the first-paragraph, which would  then start: '"Takes note of document 18 Cf103,..".
132, 1 The PRESIDENT: -  I put this to the vote:  (The vote was taken by show of hands)  ELE
132,2 The amendment ls rejected by 35 votes to 18, with 22 abstentions.
133, The SECRETARY: 2 37  Mr: President, the next amendment was prèsented by the delegate of Afghanistan. This  amendment would consist in ending the paragraph after the words "submitted by the birector-  General". The paragraph would read: ''Takes note with satisfaction of document 18 C/103  submitted by the Director-General'', co
134,1 The PRESIDENT:  I shall put this amendment to the vote,  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
134,2 The amendment is approved by 42 votes to 7, with 25 abstentions,
135.1 The SECRETARY:  Mr, President, I think that the next amendment which was. proposed by. the Federal Republic  of Germany falls automatically, because it consisted in deleting part of what the plenary has just  deleted,
135.2 The next amendment, Mr. President, was proposed by the delegate of the Netherlands,  and with your permission I will give it in French,
135.3 Il s'agit de transférer dans le dispositif le texte du douzième considérant, ‘qui débute de la  façon suivante: "Estimant que l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre Économique international ...
135.4 : En outre, le Président du Groupe de travail a proposé de remplacer le mot "estime" par le  mot "déclare".
136, The PRESIDENT: ‘  I give the floor to the distinguished delegate of the Netherlands.
137.1 M. de HOOG (Pays-Bas). -  Monsieur le Président, j'aècepte volontiers la suggestion du Président du Groupe de travail  de dire ""déclare" au lieu de dire "estime",
137,2 - J'accepte également da proposition dé faire du nouveau paragraphe non pas le paragraphe 2  mais lé paragraphe $. Cela me semble certainement plus logique, Merci, Monsieur le Président.
135, Le SECRETAIRE. -  Monsieur le Président, le paragraphe qui commencerait par "'Déclare que l'instauration d'un  nouvel ordre économique international, etc." serait inséré comme un nouveau paragraphe 3, les  autres paragraphes étant renumérotés en conséquence,
139.1 The PRESIDENT: ;  - 1 put te the vote the Netherlands amendment, as amended by the Chairman of the Working  Group, ;  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
139,2 The timendment is adopted by 69 votes to none, with 4 abstentions.
140,1 L'é SECRETAIRE, - . ' . I.  Monsieur le Président, l'amendément sulvant concerne le paragraphe 4. La délégation de la  France propose de supprimer les mbts "visant à créer .. , équilibré et naturel",
140.2 Le paragraphe 4 se lirait donc : "'Reconnaît que la contribution de l'Unesco à la promotion  d'un nouvel ordre économique et social devrait consister à introduire un typérrénové ... "" (le reste  sans changement). : ;
(141.1) Mr. CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish): ; …  On a question of order, Mr. President. What should be pul to the vote is the ‘deletion of the phrase:  "a world structure without domination, and with just and free sdéieties at a 'balanced and dâtural devel of  development‘, This deletion is what should be voted, Mr. President, because if the vote is taken In the  manner which you have proposed, and if the vote goes against, this would entail the deletion of paragraph4  in fts entirety and with this we are in total disagreement,
37 (141.2) The vote should be taken on the amendment submitted by the delegate of France, which consists in  the deletion of the part of paragraph 4 which I have just quoted, This is the French amendment, Thank  you, Mr. President,
142, The PRESIDENT: ;  I thank the distinguished delegate of Peru, I call on the Secretary,
143.1 Le SECRETAIRE, -  Monsieur le Président, c'est bien là la proposition de la France, La Fränce'a prôposé de  supprimer les mots "visant à créer une structure mondiale sans domination et composée de socié-  tés justes et libres, ayant atteint un niveau de développement équilibré et naturel",
143.2 C'est sur cette suppression que la Conférence générale doit se prononcer.
144.1 The PRESIDENT:  We will now vote on the revision proposed by France.  (A vote was taken by show of hands)
144.2 The proposal is rejected by 54 votes to 13, with 3 abstentions.
145. The SECRETARY:  In paragraph 5 (1) (a), the Federal Republic of Germany. has proposed to end the paragraph  on the fourth line, at the words: “on a more equitable and more human basis", with a full stop,  and to delete the rest of 5 (1) (a) all the way to "over its natural resources and all economic  activities'. A vote should be taken, Mr. President, on the deletion of this part of paragraph 5 (1) (a).
146.1 The PRESIDENT:  We will vote on the deletion of the enumeration in paragraph 5 (1) (a).  (A vote was taken by show of hands)
146.2 The proposal is rejected by 66 votes to 10, with 4 abstentions.
147. The SECRETARY:  Mr, President, thére may be some difficulties with paragraph 5 (1) (b), because {wo amend-  ments are proposed, The first amendment, proposed by the delegation of the United Kingdom,  consists in replacing the word "impede" by the word facilitate’ and to insert the word "Inter-  national” at the end, ; :
148, The PRESIDENT:  I call the distinguished delegate of the Netherlands,
149. M. de HOOG (Pays-Bas). -  Monsieur le Président, je m'excuse d'interrompre le Secrétaire de la Conférence générale,  mais je voudrais clarifier la question. M. le Président du Groupe de travail a bien voulu prendre  en considération les propositions que j'ai faites, et notamment ma proposition d'amendement su  paragraphe 5. 1 (b) suppression des mots "et la publication", mais addition à la fin du paragraphe,  du membre de phrase ‘et la publication des résultats de cette étude". D'autre part, en ce qui con-  cerne le mot ‘’entraver", il me donne l'impression (peut-être cela tient-il à mon insuffisante con-  naissance du français) que l'on est à la recherche de facteurs qui pourrafent retarder !l‘Instaura-  tion du nouvel ordre économique. C'est pourquoi je souhaiterait que le texte français soit remanié  de façon à se lire comme suit : "l'étude des facteurs qui entravent casu quo pourrpient renforcer  l'effort visant à instaurer un nouvel ordre économique .,." Je croïs que comme cela pous avons  les deux concepts. Merci, Monsieur le Président,
150. The PRESIDENT:  May I ask you to repeat it again? I cannot follow you completely.
151. M. de HOOG (Pays-Bas). -  Merci, Monsieur le Président, Je relis le texte que j'ai propusé, qui contient deux mots la-  tins : "l'étude des facteurs qui entravent casu quo pourraient renforcer les efforts visant etc.'  Je crois'que, éomme cela, on a les deux notions : il faut étudier aussi bien les facteurs qui ris-  quent d'entraver l'instauration du nouvel ordre économique gae ceux qui peuvent la promouvoir.
152. Le SECRETARIAT. -  . Selon la proposition des Pays-Bas, le libellé de l'article 5, 1 (b) deviendrait : "l'étude des  facteurs qui entravent casu quo pourraient renforcer les efforts visant à instaurer un nouvel ordre  économique et la publication des résultats de cette étude",
1563. The PRESIDENT:  The distinguished delegate of Venezuela on a point of order,
(154) Mr, DE SOLA (Venesuela) {Translation from the Spanish): '  Mr, President, | do not know whether it is a question of Interpretation, but the téxt which has been  given in Spanish is not Intelllgible; we should therefore be glad if a clearer translation could be given of  the proposal made by the Netherlands, Thank you, Mr, President, .
155. The PRESIDENT:  The distinguished delegate of France.  »
156. M. BATAULT (France). -  Monsieur le Président, je proposerais, si le délégué des Pays-Bas en est d'accord, une ré-  daction peut-être un peu plus simple. On pourrait dire ; des facteurs susceptibles d'entraver ou  de favoriser les efforts visant à instaurer un nouvel ordre économique international. . ", Merci,  Monsieur le Président.
157. ‘The PRESIDENT  Thank you, ' I call the distinguished delegate of the United Kingdom.
158. Mr, MARTIN (United Kingdom):  Thank you, Mr, President, To save time I withdraw my own amendment and support instead  what has just been proposed by the distinguished delegate of the Netherlands, assuming that the  wording cornes out all right in English. But, Mr, President, I do think this is one of those places  where it would be correct to say "new international economic order", because this is the phrase  that is used in the second line of paragraph 5, I think this is purely technical, and I support the  Netherlands, Thank you.
159. The PRESIDENT;  Thank you. Now I call the distinguished delegate of Venezuela,
(160) Mr, DE SOLA (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr, President, as no Spanish version of the proposal made by the Netherlands has teen given, and in  order to contribute to rapidly resolving this matter, I take the liberty of proposing a Spanish text of this  proposal as we understand it, namely: (b) “El estudio de los factores que peudan facilitar u obstaculizar  los esfuerzos para crear un nuevo orden econémico y la publicacién de los resultados de dicho estudio,  Thank you very much, Mr, President,’
161, The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the distinguished delegate of Venezuela and Î call the distinguished delegate of  Afghanistan,
162. M. ZIAI (Afghanistan), -  Monsieur le Président, la première fois on parle d'un "nouvel ordre économique international",  mais la seconde fois le mot "international" a été omis. I me semble que l'on devrait harmoniser  les deux textes.
163, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Afghanistan. I call on the Secretary,
164, Le SECRETAIRE, -  Monsieur le Président, je me permets de relire le texte lentement une fois encore. Le nou=  veau texte se lirait ‘L'étude des facteurs susceptibles d'entraver ou de favoriser les efforts visant  à instaurer un nouvel ordre Économique international et la publication des résultats de cette étude.
165.1 The PRESIDENT:  Are you ready to vote?  (A vote was taken by show of hands)
165.2 The proposal is adopted by 69 votes to none, with 2 abstentions.
166, The SECRETARY:  Mr, ‘President, the next amendment was proposed by the Vice- Chairman ‘of the Executive  Board. He proposed, in paragraph 6, 2,. in the line which now starts "education for rural :  development", first to suppress the words "education for" and next to complete the paragraph.  so that it would read as follows: "rural development in Unesco's fields of competence’.
37 167. ‘The PRESIDENT:
18 there any objection? : The distinguished delegate of the Netherlands.
168, M. de HOOG (Pays- Bas). - ; Er TE,  Monsieur le Président, je n'ai aucune objection : j'accepte très volontiers cette proposition,  mais j'aurais une autre remarque à faire en ce qui concerne le paragraphe 5, 2. Est-ce que je  peux la faire maintenant ?
169, The PRESIDENT: :  The amendment proposed by the Vice-Chairman of the Executive Board is accepted, The dis-  tinguished delegate of the Netherlands has the floor.
170.1 M. de HOOG (Pays-Bas). -  Monsieur le Président, j'espère que la proposition que je vais faire ne va pas 'conduire a  l'ouverture d'un débat; étant ‘donné que la question'a déjà été discutée à plusieurs reprises et que  les commissions’ et: la Conférence ont déjà pris plusieurs décisions à ce sujet.
170,2 Je me rétère À la ligne du paragraphe 6.2, où il est parlé du "’renforéement dé la paix et  de 1a] promotion des droits de l'homme", L'expression regue, Monsieur le Président, est  promotion des droits de l'homme et renforcement de la p x", Je propose dont que ce change-  ment soit apporté dans le texte. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
171, The SECRETARY:  Mr, ‘President, the proposal of the Netherlands delegation is to‘rédraft the first line so as  to read "promotion of human rights and strengthening of peace",
172. The PRESIDENT: 1 ‘  Aré there any objections? No. It is adopted, '
173. The SECRETARY:  The President, after sub-paragraph (3) of paragraph 5, the delegation of Cblombia has  proposed to insert a new sub-paragraph 4 and this new sub-paragraph would read: "La  cooperacién en la ejecucién de las recomendaciones aprobadas por la Conferencia Mundial  de la Alimentacién'’.
174, 1 The PRESIDENT: :  Is there any objection to inclhide’ this new paragraph, No? It is adopted,
174.2 Now we proceed to Section II, Are there any remarks? The distinguished delegate of  Senegal.
176.1 M; DIENE (Sénégal). - '  Monsieur lé Président, ma délégation éprouve quelqués difficultés'en liaison avec la section II,  que nous estimons ne pas être nécessaire dans ce texte. Toutefois, pbur ne pas rémettre en cause
1e travail accompli par le Groupe de travail, nous nous contenterons de proposer up amendement.  Nos difficultés viennent du fait que la thèse centrale exposée à l'alinéa 1 noue semble contestable,  notamment lorsqu'il est dit que la science et la technologie apparaissent comme le moteur du pro-  grès économique. Cette façon de lier apparemment le progrès économique au développement li-  néaire de la science et de la technologie nous paraît, je le répète, extrèmement contestable dans  la mesure où elle semble substituer à l'action consciente de l'homme le développement non contrô-
1é de la science et de la technologie. .
145: 2 Nou pensons au surplus que les rédacteurs ‘de ce , paragraphe ‘noni p pas, voulu. aller aussi .  loin et que er intention n'était pas de développer une idéologie technicienne, C'est la raison pour  laquelle nous proposons, non pas la suppression de cet alinéa, mais un amendement consistant à  remplacer l'expression ''le raoteur' par "un élément important". Le début de l'alinéa se }irait  alors comme suit : "Pour l'instauration du nouvel ordre économique international proposé dans la  Déclaration des Nations Unies, la science et la technologie apparaissent non seulement comme un  élément important du progrès économique lui-même, mals aussi ..." etc. Merci; Monsieur le »  Président. . .
176, - The PRESIDENT: ; Co Ss  I thank the distinguished delegate of Senegal. Are there any other remarks? I call the  Secretary to read the amendment.’ :
177,1 Le SECRETAIRE. -  Monsieur le Président, l'amendement proposé par la délégation du Sénégal consiste à rem-  placer, a la troisième ligne du paragraphe 1 de la section Il, les mots "comme le moteur" par  "comme un élément important". ; = -
177.2 Le début de la phrase se Lirait donc comme suit : "Pour l'instauration du nouvel ordre éco-  nomique international proposé dans la Déclaration des Nations Unies, la éciéncé ef 1a technologie  apparaissent non seulement comme un élément important dû progrès économique: lui - mente, mais  aussi..." Cae - ; .
178.1 The PRESIDENT: 37°  Any objections? No? It is adopted,
178.2 Now Section III. Are there any remarks? Section III is adopted,
178.3 We now come to Section IV. The distinguished delegate of France.
179.1 M. BATAULT (France). -  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais parler du paragraphe 12.
179.2 Ce paragraphe s'adresse au Directeur général et lui rappelle toute une série de problèmes  qu'il connaît certainement fort bien et qu'il ne manquera pas d'aborder dans un esprit novateur et  avec le souci de poursuivre l'évolution des structures et des méthodes de l'Organisation. Ny a  là, à notre avis, une diversion qui s'éloigne très sensiblement de la substance générale de notre  texte et ma délégation estime par conséquent que ce paragraphe devrait être supprimé, L'en-  semble du dispositif y gagneralt en homogénéité, et nous éviterions en mème temps de donner  I'impression que; par quelque mécanisme certainement non voulu par le Groupe de travail, le  Directeur général doit être amené à des préoccupations qui, nous le savions bien, sont parfaite-  ment présentes à son esprit. .
179.3 Pour me résumer, je pense qu'il convient de laisser au nouveau Directeur général toute  l'autonomie dont il a besoin pour traiter une question aussi importante et ma délégation propose  la suppression pure et simple du paragraphe 12. Merci, Monsieur le Président,
180. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of France. Now! call the Chairman of the Working Group.
181. Mr. WYNTER (Jamaica) (Chairman of the Working Group):  Mr, President, I would like to explain why paragraph 12 was put in, It was taken from
18 C/PLEN/DR, 14 and 18 C/PLEN/DR. 16, and it relates to the clause which appears at the end  of the preambular clauses, reading: "Aware that there is a need for a continuing review of the  structure and methods of operation of the Secretariat to enable Unesco to contribute as effectively  as possible to the establishment of a new economic order", The invitation in paragraph 12 is’  simply to refer to that preambular clause and to Conference resolutions adopted on a number of  items for strengthening the Secretariat. That is why it was put in, Mr, President.
182. The PRESIDENT:  There is a proposal to delete paragraph 12. The distinguished delegate of Mexico.
(183) Mr, CUEVAS CANCINO (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish}: ;  Mr. President, the purpose behind the French proposal, which is not without foundation, might  perhaps be achieved by deleting from paragraph 12 the phrases following the words bearing in inind  pertinent General Conference resolutions, .."; the paragraph would therefore read ag follows: "Invites  the Director-General to take all the measures that he deems to be appropriate and effective to improve  the structure and methods of operation of the Secretariat, bearing in mind pertinent General Conference  resolutions”, Thank you very much, Mr. President,
184, The PRÉSIDENT:  Thé distinguïshed delegate of France.  i
185, M. BATAULT (France). -  Monsieur le Président, j'appuie pleinement la suggestion présentée par l'honorable délégué  du Mexique, Merci, Monsieur le Président.
186. The PRESIDENT:  The distinguished delegate of Niger.
187. M. ABDOU (Niger). -  Monsieur le Président, ayant participé sux débats du Groupe de travail, ma délégation estime  que les questions énumérées dans cette Partie IV de la résolution sont capitales. Ces questions,  qui ont trait à la décentralisation, à la répartition géographique, à la rotation du personnel, etc.  ont en effet été évoquées par toutes les délégations, dont il importe que les opinions soient fidèle-  ment reflétées. Merci, Monsieur le Président. ’
188, The PRESIDENT: - - _ _-  I thank the distinguished delegate of Niger. The distinguished delegate of Nepal, 4
37  +196, The PRESIDENT: -. ; :
189, Mr, SHINJU (Nepal):  Thank you, Mr. President. I think the reason behind the inclusion of paragraph 12 has been  very clearly and very specifically spelled out by the Chairman of the Working Group. Because  of the sound reasons given by him, I suggest, Mr. President, that paragraph 12 remains as it la  and be put to the vote.
190. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Nepal. The distinguished delegate of Zambia,
191.1 Mr, LOMBE (Zambia):  Thank you, Mr, President, I wish to support the proposal of the last two speakers, that we,  retain paragraph 12 as it fs. The ideas expressed in this paragraph are not isolated, they come  in fact from various commissions, they have been discussed widely, '. And I think they reflect  the general opinion of most Member States, at least the developing countries.
191,2 As to the propose} to delete the last three lines, Ido not think this will really improve the  text, because all-we are doing is to give examples; if you leave it to the reader to look for examples,  you are not really improving it. We might as well help the reader by quoting what has been done.  The issues involved in the paragraph, namely decentralization, rotation of staff, equitable geo-  graphical distribution of staff, etc., are issues in which we are Interested and we might as well  spell them out. Thank you, ;
192, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Zambia. I call the distinguished delegate of Peru.
(193,1) Mr. CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish): ;  Mr, President, I should like very briefly to support what was sald by the Chairman of the Working  Group and what has just been sald by the délegations of thé Republic of the Niger and the Republic of  Zambia, 1 would point out, for the satisfaction of the delegates who are to vote, that the Director-General,  having been elected almost unanimously, except for one unfortunate vote, is empowered to take such  measures as he deems appropriste and effective,
(193.2) We give the Director-General great freedom of action, a confirmation of the confidence implied by  by thie unanimous vote, and we indicate certain criteria for the Diréétor-General himself to bear in mind,  These are criteria and guidelines, rather than a request made by the Conference; for this reason I consider  that the paragraph should be kept as it Is, without the deletion of a single letter, Thank you,  Mr, President,
194, The PRESIDENT: i
1 thank the distinguished delegate of Peru. I call the distinguished delegate of Mexico.
(195) Mr, CUEVAS CANCINO (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr, President, with the authorization of the French delegation, I withdraw the amendment which I  proposed to paragraph 12, However, 1 must say that I find it a little difficult to imagiiie that mattérs con-  cerning the decentralization of the Secretariat and the rotation of aféff are fundarnental elements in  Unesco's contribution to an international economic order. Thank you, Mr, President,  ‘  - * Does the distinguished delegate of France agree?  PS , a ; . : -
197, M; CHESNEAU (France).-. , …. -. EN >. . Cs vr  Monsieur le Président, je remercie l'honorable délégué du-Mexique et je suis disposé à adop-  ter la même position que lui, tout en regrettant de voir subsister dans un texte que nous nous  sommes efforcés d'épurer des éléments qui me paraissent n'avoir aucun rapport avec l'ordre éco-  nomique en cause, Merci, Monsieur le Président. . ” "a NE  RIE)
198, The PRESIDENT: IV : 3  I thank the distinguished delegate of France. The distinguished delegate of Algeria.
199, M. ANNABI (Algérie). -  Monsieur le Président, je comprends les réserves qui ont été formulées au ‘sujet du para-  graphe 12, Mais je crois que ces réserves s'expliquent par le fait que le ‘Groupe de travail n'a  malheureusement pas rètenu dans sa rédaction du paragraphe 12, la justification qui figurait dans  le texte du 18 C/PLEIN/DR, 16 sous la forme suivante: "afin qu'il jle Secrétariat de l'Unesco)  puisse contribuer effectivement à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international’.  L'absence de cette justification me paraît ire à l'origine des critiques qui ont été formulées sur  le paragraphe 12. .
200.1 The PRESIDENT: oo  I thank the distinguished delegate of Algeria, Is there any ovher amendment on paragraph 12?  No. Then it is adopted,
200,2 Now we shall proceed to Section v, the last section, May I call the representative of the  Executive: Board,
(201) Mr, BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia) (Vice-Chairman of the Executive Board) {Translation from the  Spanish):  Mr, President, I take the liberty of suggesting that a paragraph 16 be added, inviting the Director-  General to transmit this resolution to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, because it reflects  exactly the co-operation which the General Conference has established, within a new international  economie order, at the request of the General Assembly of the United Nations and of the Economic and  Social Council, Thank you very much, Mr. President,
202, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the representative of the Executive Board. Any other speakers? I call the Chairman  of the Working Group.
203, Mr. WYNTER (Jamaica) (Chairman of the Working Group):  Mr. President, the Working Group was very careful in not trying to tie the hands of the  Director-General as to what he should transmit to the other agencies. I wonder if the idea raised  by the Vice-Chairman of the Executive Board could be met by adding "United Nations" before  "Economic and Social Council”, etc., in paragraph 13? The Working Group was suggesting that  the Director-General should be left free to determine what he transmits to the Secretary-General  and to the other agencies. If he decides to send the whole resolution and annex that would be  fine. If we put United Nations in paragraph 13 it would, I think, meet the point raised by the  Vice-Chairman of the Executive Board. Thank you, Mr. President,
204. The PRESIDENT: : :  I thank the Chairman of the Working Group, Now I call the Deputy Director-General.
205. Mr, FOBES (Deputy Director-General):  Mr. President, in fact the Director-General would welcome that addition in paragraph 13. In  thereby co-operating with the United Nations he would, of course, notify the Secretary-General  of the text of the directive he is now receiving from the General Conference.
206. The PRESIDENT: ! . - - . ;  Thank you. Mr. Deputy Rirector- General. Any other comments on Section V? Section V is  adopted, including the amendment proposed by the representative of the Executive Board.
207. Mr. JONES (United States of America):  Point of order, Mr. President. It has been my understanding that as we have been going  through this document, we have not been approving it paragraph by paragraph. We have only  been considering amendments. When you say adopted, you are not referring to the adoption of  the paragraph, you are referring to the adoption of any amendment proposed, and therefore we  have not gone through the document paragraph by paragraph, nor have we adopted any paragraph  as yet. Is that correct? ,
208, The PRESIDENT:  That ic right. . Now, shall I put to the vote the whole, ot Section V, or the resolution as a whole?  I give the floor to the distinguished delegate of the United States on a point of order, . < 14e
209, Mr, JONES {United States of America): ; ,Ç
1am still unclear. I do not belleve that we have voted on à this resolution paragraph ‘by para-  graph. We have only been considering this afternoon the amendments proposed. Is that correct?
37 We have only voted on the amendments, We have not vo'ed paragraph by paragraph. The record  will so state. '
210, The PRESIDENT: .  To answer the distinguished delegate of the United States, are you willing to vote paragraph by  paragraph? '
211, Mr, JONES (United Statés of America): :  I was nôt asking to vote paragraph by paragraph. Iam wiliing to vote paragraph by paragraph  if the Chair so rules. ;
212. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the delegate of the United States. I give the floor to the distinguished delegate of the  Ukraine,
213, I'-u 0H, KOYYBEH (Yxpannexan Coperckan Couvankoruueckas Pecny6nHKa);  Braronapp pac, r- IMpeaceñatens, Moxer 6uTL Apnerara CoeauHeHHnx MTATOB AMEpHKH  yROBNeTBOpHAA 6 Takas NPOILEAYPA: BMECTO TOFO, YTo6H FONOCOBATEL MPOEKT PesONADUHI naparpad  sa naparpadom, oH Haasan Gi Te Maparpa®si, no KOTOPHM CH xOTen 63 NPOBECTH pasAeAbHOe FONO-  copanHe, H Toraa, MHe XaX6TCA, ML CMOIJIH 6 C3XKOHOMATH BpeMs, Bnaronapm sac, r-H Npeace-  RaTens,  '
(213) Mr, KOCHUBEI (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic) {Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr, Tresident, Perliaps the delegate of the United Stales of America would be satisfied  with the following procedure: instead of voting on the draft resolution paragraph by paragraph, he would  name the paragraphs on which he would like a separate vote to be taken, Then, I think, we could save  time. Thank you, Mr, President.
214, The PRESIDENT:  I call upon the Secretary.
215, The SECRETARY:  Mr. President, I think that it would be good at this stage to recall what is said in Rule 85  of the Rules of Procedure which concerns separate votes. That Rule reads: "Parts of a propcsal  shall be voted on separately, if a member requests that the proposal be divided, The resulting  proposal shall then be put to a final vote in its entirety". Thank you, Mr. President,
216, Mr, JONES (United States of America):  Mr, President, I did not ask for a vote paragraph by paragraph; I asked for an explanation  to make sure that what we were voting on was not a paragraph by paragraph vote, but was a voting  only on amendments to paragraphs, so that the record would not show that we had approved any  paragraph. Thank you.
217,1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of the United States of America. You are right.
217.2 1 give the floor to the distinguished delegate of Yugoslavia,
218. Mr. LUKOVAC (Yugoslavia): !  Mr. President, I just would like to remind you of thé proposal of the Working Group that this  resolution should be adopted by consensus. Thank you,
219. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The distinguished délegate of the United States of America has the floor.
220. Mr. JONES (United States of America):  ‘Mr. President, I must request a vote on this resolution. I would not agree to any acceptance  of u consensus, Thank you, Mr. President.
221.1 The PRESIDENT:  I put the draft resolution to the vote.  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
221.2 The draft resolution is adopted Ly 67 votes to 1, with 8 abstentions.
221.3 The delegate of the United States of America has the floor for an explanation of vote.
222,1 Mr, JONES (United States of America):  Thank you, Mr. President, Realizing the lateaess of the hour, and realizing the amount  of work that has gone into the preparation of thie draft resolution, we would like to compliment  those on the Working Group for the hard work that they have put on it, and the result, I must say,  was à great improvement over the original text that had beén before vu.
222,2 However, my explanation of vote is as follows: the United States of America récognizes 37  the importance of the Declaration and Programme of Action for a New Economio Order as being ’  a major statement of the economic policy goals of many countries, particularly those in the pro-  cesa of development. Therefore, we are willing to see the international community take these  resolutions into account in the pursuit of solutions to the éructal questions facing the world eco-  nomic community, We are therefore fully prepared to participate in the examination of the specific  issues included in the Programme of Action and to discuss our differences with other countries.  We realize that the Declaration and Programme of Action identify and indicate the serious policy  concerns of developing countries. However, the United States of America cannot be expected to  acquiesce in or accept these in their totality. It is unreasonable to expect, we feel; that in the  absence of a much more general agreement than now exists, the United States of America, or  perhaps other developed countries, should fully agree to carry out all of the principles set forth,  . ; ‘
222.3 Now as to Unesco's rôle, we can accept the proposition that the General Conference can  properly ask the Secretariat to be cognizant of the Declaration and Programme of Action; and  take them into account in ongoing Unesco programmes. However, as has been made clear in  other international forums, the Declaration and the Plen of Action do not represent agreed con-  clusions on the economic problems which face the world of today. This lack of agreement is the  true situation. It is a fact and must be taken into account, Therefore, as I stated, although the  Working Group's draft is a considerable improvement over the old text, we still have serious  reservations about the extent and character of Unesco's role. The operative paragraphs, we think,  go too far, and therefore we feel that in the absence of a true consensus, we must regretfully  oppose this resolution. Thank you, Mr. President,
223, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of the United States of America, I'now call upon the delegate of Switzerland,
224, M, HUMMEL (Suisse). -  Monsieur le Président, ma délégation a exposé au cours du débat de politique générale, la po-  sition du gouvernement suisse sur l'ensemble des problèmes très complexes que pose l'instaura-  tion d'un nouvel ordre économique international : je n'y reviendrai donc pas. Je voudrais simple-  ment dire que je me suis vu dans l'obligation de m'abstenir au cours de ce vote parce que mon  pays, n'étant pas membre de l'Organisation des Nations Unies, n'a pas participé aux délibérations  concernant la Déclaration et le Programme d'action relatifs à l'instauration de cet ordre écono-  mique et n'a donc pas pu formuler les réserves qu'il aurait eu A faire sur ces textes. Je vous  remercie, Monsieur le Président.
225. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Switzerland. Now I call on the delegate of France.
226. M, CHESNEAU (France), -  Monsieur le Président, nous avons voté en faveur de ce projet de résolution, car l'idéal et  les motivations fondamentales dont 11 procède emportent certainement notre adhésion, Tout en  rendant hommage au travail accompli, nous regrettons cependant que ce texte important ne pré-  sente pas toute la précision et toute la concision que nous aurions, quant à nous, souhaitées.
227. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of France and I now call upon the distinguished delegate of  Denmark,
228.1 Mr, HANSEN (Denmark):  Thank you, Mr. President, The resolution which was just adopted scems to Fay delegation  to pronounce itself on topics regarding the establishment of a New Intérnetitnal Economie Order  which should be under the competence of the United Nations Gehéral Assembly ftself. Further-  more, a number of the preambuler paragraphs do not seem to have any particulerly close relation  ‘to Unesco's activities. In these circumstances, my delegation has to register its hesitations as  regards the resolution before us,
228.2 In addition, we have noted that the text makes no reference to reservations expressed when  the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establishment of a New Intérnational Economic  Order were adopted by consensus during the recent sixth special session of the General Assembly  of the United Nations, The decision to express these reservations was not an easy one,  Mr, President; it was only arrived at after serious and positive efforts had been made to try to  meet the aspirations and the views of the developing countries. Only reluctantly did my delegation  put forward some reservations. I shall not repeat the explanation of vote given by the Danish  delegation on that occasion, nor that given by the representative of the Nine, Both are reproduced  elsewhere,  . 228.3 Well, I shall conclude by saying that we consider the matters reised in that explanation of  such importance that due regard should be paid to its contents by some form of reference when  there fs 8 question of implementation of the Action Programme within the field of competence of  organs of the United Nations family. As this had not been found possible, my delegation wished  to make its point of view clear by abstaining, and by making these few explanatory remarks,  Thank you, Mr, President.
37 229, The PRESIDENT: i . . .  .. I thank the distinguished delegate of Denmark. I call upon the distinguished delegate of the  Federal Ropublie of Germany. . . .
230, 1 Mr, PETERSEN (Federal Republic of Germany}: '  Thank you-Mr, President, My Government took an active, and we belleve also a constructive,  pari in the elaboration of the two decisions taken by the. United Nations General Assembly which  form the basis of our action in Unesco, In the resolution which has just been adopted a sérles  of principles are being recalled which are meant tô govern Unesco's future actlon and in respect  of which, however, my Government has made réservations within the competent organization,  that is the United Nations General Assembly. : Da
230,2 I have not repeated these Individual reservations here, because they refer to points which  concern concepts of economic polioy;. and this is not a matter which’falls within Unesco's fields  of. competence, but in that of the appropriate organs in New York, ‘ The two documents adopted  at the sixth special session of the General Assembly in New York, the reservations made by indi-  vidual governments; are in our view indivisible, For this reason,’ my delegation was not in a  position to vote In favour of the said resolition, -because in the form that has been put to the vote  here, it is; in our view, conducive to a misinterprelation of the results which have been achieved  at the special session of the United Nations General Assembly, Thank you Mr, President,
231, The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the distinguished delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany, I call next upon the  distinguished delegate of the United Kingdom.
232,1 Mr, MARTIN (United Kingdom):  Thank you Mr. President. When my Minister was leading the British delegation and à spoke  in the general debate, she particularly welcomed the inclusion of this item 12. 4 on thé ‘agenda  of the General Conference, and I think she would want me now to express regret that in the end,  the United Kingdom delegation had to abstain in the vote,
232,2 My delegation supports the view that the United Nations should give shape and definition  to the new age of economic interdepeñdence, and we sincerely believe that for all natfons the way  forward must be based on intérdependéhce and co-operation. Unesco is uniquely plated in this  connexion to supply the socio-cultural dimension t6 this new era, which so far is lacking,
232, 3 Nevertheless, Mr. President, the United Kingdom made a number of reservations at the  sixth special session of the General Assembly on resolution 3201 and resolution 3202 and stil)  maîntains those reservations, In our view, the text that Has just been voted does not adequately  take into account the reservations expressed by my delegation and some others, and we were  regretfully, therefore, unable to vote In favour. However, we shall continue to work fowards  those many common goals on which agreement has now been reached, and we will continué to try  to firid & solution to the problems on which difficulties still remain. Thank you, Mr. President.
233, ‘ The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of the United Kingdom and I call on the distinguished delegate  of Poland to take the floor.
234. M. MULTANSKI (Pologne). -  Monsieur le Préaident, nous avons voté en faveur du projet de résolution dans son ensemble ;  nous avons cependant quelques réserves A formuler. en ce qui concerne la création, prévue dans  la section III, d'un groupe d'étude et de réflexion. Nous croyons que c'est au Consell économique  et social qu'il revient de s'occuper en détail de cette question, en tant qu'organe compétent des  Nations Unies. Merci, Monsieur le Président.
235. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the distinguished delegate of Poland. I call upon the distinguished delegate of Canada.
236,1 M. GAGNON (Canada), -  Monsieur le Président, la délégation canadienne s'est abstenue parce que, dans son esprit,  les problèmes qui ont été soulevés relèvent plus particulièrement, du moins pour la majorité  d'entre eux, d'autres organismes du système des Hations Unies. Le Canada estime notamment  qu'il appartenait d'abord à l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies de se prononcer et qu'en tout  Etat de cause, si 1a question revenait devant l'Unesco,. celle-ci aurait dû tenir compte des nuances  - qui cnt été exprimées au stade de ce qu'on a appelé à l'époque le consensus, bien que ce terme  n'eût pas alors exactement le gens qu'on lui donne aujourd'hui,
236.2 Deuxièmement, nous croyons que c'est au Conseil économique et social des Nations Unies  plutôt qu'à l'Unesco quit appartient de traiter de cette question,
237, The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the distinguished delegate of Canada. 1 now y call on the distinguished delegate of Peru  to take the floor.
(236) Mr, CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish): :  Mr. President, the explanation for our vote is as follows: We voted In favour not only in order to  maintain complete solidarity with the Working Group of which we had the honour to be a member under the  Chairmanship of Senator Wynter, who dirécted {ts work with intelligence and great magnanimity; not only,  I repeat, out of solidarity with the Working Group but because we consider that the document 18 & very ’  important one and we hope by our vote to sirergthen the majority view expressed by the peoples here  represented, and the views of the countries whô are gathered together here, We are confident, .  Mr, President - and thie was the signification of our vote - that even those countries which abstained or  which have reservations will collaborate in the practical implementation of the recommendation under the  terms of which a majority consénsus invites the participation of all, and States as à whole are morally  obliged to respect the wish of the majority. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
239, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the distinguished delegate of Peru and now I call upon the Chairman of the Working  Group as the last speaker.
240,1 Mr, WYNTER (Jamaica) {Chairman of the Working Group):  Mr. President, I should simply like to say on behalf of the Working Group that we are very  pleased at the result, As has been said very often, Mr. President, consensus is not vnaniraity;  consensus 18 a wide and deep approval, and it was significant, Mr, President, that even the dele-  gation which voted against and the eight delegations which abstained, have expressed a very deep  sympathy with the motivation behind the draft resolution,
240.2 I should like to repeat that my colleagues in the Working Group and I simply tried faithfully  to reflect what was said in the debate. Therefore, if there is any strength and if there are any  weaknesses in the resolution, we should like to feel that they are a reflection of what took place  in the debate.
240.3 Mr, President, in a vote of 76 members, with 67 voting for, one against and eight abstain-  ing, ! think we can feel that there was a wide consensus, And I should like, on behalf of the  Working Group, to say thanks to the delegates for the gravity of their approach during the debate  and also this afternoon, I think we have been motivated by a spirit of the beginning of a new and  noble endeavour.
240.4 Mr. President, perhaps it would not be out of place to refer to a very great American,  who used to quote this little bit in most of his speeches, when he sald “Some men see things or  dream of things as they are not and ask why not". And this is the question we bave &sked ourselves  today and before, during the debate, We are making a beginning and, as the representative of  Peru has just said, of those who were not able to vote for the resolution, at least we know that they  have pledged thelr support, because, Mr. President, we were all moved by the spirit of working  together so that this great Organization is abie to contribute effectively in this very great and very  important task, So we thank you all again, Mr, President, for the toleranze with which you re-  ceived our work. Thank you, Mr. President.
241. The PRESIDENT:  I thank th: Chaïrman of the Working Group, Our work has been completed at the last moment.
1 would Uke to thank you ali, distinguished delegates, for your symyathetic co-operation, and the  staff of the Secretariat for the very warm co-operation which waa given to me in the exercise of  my duties, in spite of my having very little ability for presiding over a meeting on this very  important ftem, which will mark a very crucial moment in the history of this Organization. The  meeting {s adjourned. Thank you.  The meeting rose at 7.50 p.m.  La séance est levée A 19 h. 50  Se levanta la sesién a las 19, 50