Thirty-first plenary ‘meeting
15 November 1974'at'9, 5 p.m. k  ] President: Mr. THOMAS (France) y  Trente et unième séance plénière
15 novembre 1974 à 21 h:25  Président : M. THOMAS (France)  Trigesimoprimerd' sesion plenaria  "16 de noviembre de 1974 a fas 21.25 5  | Presidente: Sr. THOMAS (Francia)  - 15 Hon6pa 1974 rv B 21 4.25 MHH. .  Npeaceaarens! r-H TOMA (®panuna)  SAVE, Bold} PARI FAR]  pb aa ed) ave BY ous mini Vo  (List ) Las sued à ps  TpuAilaTh fepBoe mjleHapHOe 3aceJaHue  SECOND REPORT OF THE DRAFTING COMMITTEE SET UP TO FORMULATE  THE CONCLUSIONS ARISING OUT OF THE GENERAL POLICY DEBATE  I]  DEUXIEME RAPPORT DU COMITE DE REDACTION CHARGE DE REDIGER LES CONCLUSIONS  DU DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE (suite)  SEGUNDO INFORME DEL COMITE DE REDACCION 'ENCARGADO DE FORMULAR  LAS CONCLUSIONES DEL DEBATE -DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuaéion)  BTOPOÏ HOKNAL FENAKUŸOHHOFO KOMHTETA TIC “INATÔTOBKE BHBOJOB H3  NHCKYCCHH NO BONPOCAM OBHIEH MOAHTHKH (nponon” >nke)  (ab ) Ale Jlas…L gto IPS FEUR IE 11.41 RE La I BU EST 5
1,1 Le PRÉSIDENT.-  Mesdames et Messieurs, la séance est ouverte, Nous allons examiner 1e deuxième rapport  du Comité de rédaction chargé de rédiger les conclusions du débat de politique générale (documents
1.2 Je donne la parole à Mme la Vice-Présidente du Comité de rédaction.
2.1 Mrs. MILEVA (Shigaria) (Vice-Chairman of thé Drafitng Commiltéé): "  Mr. President, I have the honour to present to you the second report of thé Drafting Commit-  tee set up to draw the conclusions of the general policy debate (18 C/119 Add. and 18 C/119 Add,  Annex). 1would'iike to recall that the representatives of the following countries were elected as  members of the Committee: Bulgaria, Finland, India, Nétherlarids, ‘Togo, Tunisia and Venezuela.
2.2 The second report of the Drafting Committee, Mr, President, reads as follows:
1. "At {te 23rd and 24th’plenary meetirigs, held on 12 November 1974, the General Con-  ference considered document 18 C119 which had been submitted to it by Professor  Imo Hela (Finland), Chairman of the Drafiing Committee.
31 2. While approying the genergl pyrport af.t e draft resolution qoptained in the Annex to  document 18 É/119, a ‘good many delegations submitted amendments to the text which  are included in the provisional verbatim records (VR. 23 and 24).
3. The President of the General Conference, considering that a detailed discussion of these  amendments was not possible in plenary session, referred them to the Drafting Committee.  SP : , Lo. 1 pd . - cy
4. The Draftiig Conimittee; chaired, in the absence of Professor Held, by Mrs. Mileva of  Bulgaria, Vice-Chairman, held two meetings on 13 November,
5. After a thorough discussion of the amendments submitted, the Committee selected:  (a) those which arose out of the general policy debate; (b) those which improved the form  or substance of the original text; (c) those which formulated ideas which, implicitly or  explicitly; had met with'a broad consensus of épihlbh .! © Furthermore,’ in the Interests of  consistency in the wording, the Committee deemed it necessary to make certain changes  in paragraphe other than those mentioned by the delegations which had submitted the  amendments.
6, The text of all the paragraphs thus amended will be found in the Annex to the present  , document, _ ve D cont EE
7. The Drafting Commi.tee found that a number ‘of amendments before it for consideration  did not meet the criteria set out in paragraph 5 above or would have entailed repetitions  or duplications, and for this reason was unable to incorporate them into this text,
8, Finally, the embers of the Commiltée wish to stress that; both in the Annex to docu-  ment 18 C/119 and in the ‘Annéx'to this document, they havé taken the utmost care to  assemble in a coherent and well-balanced form the ideas expressed in the general policy  debate on which it seemed that géneral agreement had been reached, They themselves  represented the major world regions and, in addition, they conducted consultations in  order to ensure that their text faithfully reflected a broad consensus of opinion, They  accordingly hope that the General Conference, taking account of the new wording of the  paragraphs contained in the Annex, will be able to adopt the draft resolution. "
2.3 Mr. President, it would be very difficult for me to make a summary of the amendments that  figure in the Annex to the present document. To appreciate the improvement of the contents and  the wording of the text, one should read both the original and the present amended text of every  paragraph. Altogether, 27 paragraphs out of 70, in document 18 C/119, have been amended. 1  will try to give only a few examples.  In paragraph 1, under "Principles and objectives", the phrase, "the maintenance of peace”  has been replaced by "the strengthening of peace" at the suggestion of a number of delegations.  In paragraph 4, the word "militarism", which had given rise to different comments and  seemed to present some difficulties for certain delegations, was deleted, while in the same  paragraph, the words "struggle against incitement to war" have been added.  In paragraph 7, under "Principles and objectives”, the following phrase was added: "TFhere-  fore, Unesco should givé consideration in its future programmes to the implementation ot  the principles and aims of the Declaration on the Establishment of a New International Eco-  nomic Order, of the Programme of Action and of the Special Programme which were adopted  at the sixth special session of the United Nations General Assembly",  Paragraph 14: where in the original text we had youth listed among common problems facing  Member States, the appropriate amendment was made so that it is now clear that "youth" 18  not a problem, but that Member States have to deal, among others, with problems facing  youth,  Paragraphs 34 and 36 dealing with the rôle of the social sciences in Unesco's programme were  amended in accordance with the suggestions of a number of delegations.  Paragraph 60 on European co-operation was amended so as to be acceptable, we hope, to  those who had some comments on it, as well as to those who approved the original drafting  of the paragraph.  In paragraph 49 dealing with the Inter-sectoral programme on peace and human rights, that  calls for co-operation between Member States, the United Nations system and non-  governmental organizations, the words "and liberation movements’! have been added,
2.4 Finally, 1 would like to recall that some amendments to the presmble of the draft resolution  in document 18 C/+19 Annex had already been adopted by the plenary on 12 November. For this  reason, In the Annex to the present document (t.e. fn'document 18 C/119 Add. Annex}, we find  only the amended paragraphs of the three main parts of the draft resolution; namely, I - Principles  and objectives; 11 - Ways and means to attain the objectives and to increase the effectiveness of  Unesco; and lil - Unesco and the United Nations system,
2,5 In this way, by incorporating in accordance with the accepted criteria the greater part of . : 31  the amendments proposed by delegations, we believe that document 18 C/119 Annex has been  considerably improved and we hope that it will now meet with the approval of the General Con-  ference. Thank you, Mr. President, -
3.1 Le PRESIDENT. - : .  Je remercie Mme la Vice-Présidente du Comité de rédaction, Comme elle nous l'a expliqué  très clairement, la partie du document 18 C/119 Annexe qui se présente sous forme de projet de  résolution a déjà ét6 mise au point par la Conférence générale dans les réunions qu'elle a tenues  le 12 novembre ; par conséquent, nous n'y reviendrons pas.
3.2 Par contre, nous dévons examiner et adopter ce soir, si possible, les conclusions propre-  ment dites du débat de politique générale, avec les amendements qui ont Été apportés par le Co-  mité de rédaction (18 C/119 Add. Annexe). J'espère que tout cela est clair.
3.3 La discussion est ouverte, La parole est d'abord à la délégation de l'Iran.
4, M. RAHNEMA (Iran). - . :  Monsieur le Président, à la quatrième ligne du paragraphe 43, il est dit que "la promotion de  normes professionnelles pour l'utilisation des mass media pourrait donner leu à l'étude de codes  nationaux de déontologie‘. Etant donné les objectifs de l'Unesco, il me semble qu'il serait préfé-  rable de parler de "codes internationaux”, les codes nationaux étant l'affaire des pays eux-mêmes  et ne relevant pas de la compétence de l'Unesco. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
5. Le PRESIDENT, -  S'il n'y a pas d'autres remarques sur le paragraphe 43, je prierait Mme la Vice-Présidente  du Cornité de rédaction de nous dire ce qu'elle pense de la suggestion du délégué de l'Iran.
6. Mrs. MILEVA (Bulgsria) (Vice-Chairman of the'Drafting Committee):  Thank you Mr, President, I think this will be acceptable to the Drafting Committee; for my-  self personally it is acceptable. Thank you.
7.1 Le PRESIDENT, - y  Si je comprends bien, il faudrait lire "codes internationaux' au lieu de "codes nationaux",
7,2 La parole est au délégué de la Chine.
8.1 M, YEH CHENG-PA (République populaire de Chine) (Déclaration faite en chinois, Version  française établie d'après l'interprétation). -  Monsieur le Président, ayant procédé à l'étude du document 18 C/119 Add, rédigé par le  Comité de rédaction sous la présidence d'une déléguée de la Bulgarie, la délégation chinoige a |  constaté que, loin d'apporter des modifications de fond au texte initial pour çorriger les erreurs,  on a carrément ignoré les remarques que l'autre jour, bon nombre de délégations, y compris la  nôtre, ont formulées à juste fitre au cours des délibérations sur le texte initial, C'est là une pra-  tique fort déraisonnable.
8.2 Par exemple, le paragraphe 15 disait : "Tous les pays devraient poursulvré leurs efforts en  vue du désarmement", et le paragraphe 60 faisait allusion aux ‘résultats obtenus par la Confé-  rence sur la sécurité et la coopération en Europe". Plusieurs délégations ont formulé à cet égard  des remarques pertinentes. Ces paragraphes, qui ne peuvent que favoriser les superpuissances  dans leur course aux armements et dans leur poursuite d'une politique d'agression et d'expansion,  et porter atteinte A la lutte des peuples contre l'impérialisme et l'hégémonie, sont conservés tels  quels.
8.3 Malgré des changements mineurs de terminologie, l'essence du paragraphe 3, rangé sous la  rubrique "Les principes et les objectifs" demeure la même, à savoir une pacotille de tromperie  colportée par la superpuissance qui se dit socialiste - pacotille qui a fait faillite il y a longtemps.  A propos de ce paragraphe, la délégation chinoise a déjà, l'autre jour, exposé sa position et prê-  senté des amendements.
8.4 En outre, dans le nouveau texte, una phraséologie écoulée proposée par cette supérpuissancé,  à savoir "les incitations à la guerre", a été insérée, Cette auperpuissance elle-même est armée
31 jusqu'aux dents,’ elle dirige son agression et son expansion contre les autres pays, elle s'engage  partout dans une dispute avec l'autre superpuissance. C'est là un véritable acte de guerre d'agres-  sion, Mairitenant, elle'prêche ici l'opposition aux "incitations A la guerre". N'est-ce pas là se  moquer de la réalité et agir comme le voleur qui crie "au voleur", Nous savons parfaïtement bien  que cette superpuigsance ne manquera pas de sauter pour nous accuser d'être "bellicistes", Je  déclare à cette superpulssance : Si vous tentez de couvrir votre saleté par de telles calomnies et  insultes, vous n'y parviendrez jamais. Vos agissements ont déjà montré que vous menez une  réelle propagande pour la guerre d'agression, que ous incitez à la guerre d'agression, que vous  commettez des actes d'agression. : .
8.5 Etant donné que le document 18 C/119 Annexe et le texte révisé comportent, dans les parties  concernant l'orientation de l'Organisation, des articles du marché noir des superpuissances, nous  ne pouvons nous empêcher d'exprimer notre objection à l'égard du texte dans son ensemble, bien  que nous approuvions et appuyions certains paragraphes qui reflètent les demandes et les aspira-  tions de nombreux pays membres de l'Unesco, plus particulièrement des pays du Tiers Monde.
8.6 A notre avis, mieux vaut n'avoir pas de document que d'en avoir un tel que celui que nous  avons sous les yeux, Merci, Monsieur le Président.
9. Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie le représentant de 1a Chine et je donne la parole au représentant du Pérou,
(10,1) Mr, CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from \he Spanish): 4 CL  Mr. President, the delegation of Peru would have Itked to facilitate the debate by making brief,  simple comments on the addendum prepared by the Drafting Committee. We are sorry to say, however,  that certain points that we regard as fundamental have been overlooked in the addendum to the conclusions  of the general policy debate. We have to recognize that, although many new pointe that were not in the  previous document have been dealt with, there are others that would enhance the value of the document  because they reflect views expressed during the general debate.
31 {10,2) Iehouldlike td point out, first of all, ‘that the word "militarism" still appears in the Spanish text  " of document 18 C/119 Add, Annex, paragraph 4. [presume that this is’a mistake, as I heard the Chair-  man of the Drafting Committee state that this word had been deleted, If this is not the case, we should  like the word "militarism either to be deleted or to be qualified, as in the examples suggested by various  countries - "belligerent militarism’, "domineering militarism", ‘imperfalistic militarism" - for there  is a liberating militaricm, a revolutionary social and political phenomenon which is emerging In many  of our countries,
(10, 3) The Drafting Committee perhaps considered that the addition of the words "full and balanced develop -  ment" in paragraph 5 wes a Matter of mere form. It is not, Mr. President; it is a matter that concerns  our whole conception of what 1s meant by the construction of a new world and the building of new societies.
(10, 4) Development for the sake of development leads us to the endless spiral of the super consumer 80-  clety and the destruction of nature, We belleve that development is not mere economic growth, for this  means that the few that are rich become increasingly so, while the many that are poor become poorer  still,
(10.5) Wetherefore consider thatthe word "full" imples that development is a social and economic pro-  cess rather than a mere economic doctrine that emphasizes class differences within countries; what we  are alming at is a classless society. Agaln, the word "balanced" fmplies that, alnce the exhaustion of  resources is the most serious cause for concern to our countries today, development must be balanced,  and the model we must keep before our eyes is a society fn which men and ‘women can live as human  beings should. Balanced development means that no nations are over-déveloped while others are under-  developed, and we therefore think it essential that "full and balanced development" should continue to be  one of Unesco's malin objectives. So much for paragraph 5.
(10.6) As for paragraph 16, the debate has made it clear that the resurgence of fascist forces and the con-  tinuing existence of trouble spots is not a spontaneous phenomenon, but something that has been carefully  engineered and carefully encouraged in the interests of imperjalism. We regard it as vital, therefore,  to denounce imperialism and to state, as our considered view, that the Conference repudiates it. This  denunciation by all the Third World countries who are experiencing North American {mperiallsm has not  been included in paragraph 16.
(10.7) Withregardtoparagraph24, we pointed out that education continues to be "one of the major factors  in the process of cultural, economic and social development’ and not "the major factor"; so we agree  with thie change, However, the wording of the original document 18 C/119, "designed to bridge the gap  between the developing and the developed countries’ has been retained.
(10.8) We maintain, Mr. President, that "bridge the gap" iniplies an ideological fraud which we do not  accept, for the developed countries are not a model for the Third World countries - the Third World has  its own historical bluéprint which can offer alternatives and new paths for the humanization of man, What  we want, as I pointed out at a previous meeting, is to establish a just and balanced world structure. Cul-  tural, economic and social development ts moving In this direction.  {10.9) We would insist, then, on deletion of the phrase "bridge the gap between the developing and the  developed countries....” Developed in what way? This is a question we ask ourselves: developed in what  way?
(10.10) We should also like to make a comment, Mr. President, on an amendment to paragraph 43 suggested  by Iran. We have pointed out in the Communication Commission and here as well that our aim should not be  to formulate an fnternational communication code, but national codes, and the most that Unesco, as an  {international organization, can do about tiiem is to suggest guiding principles; it should not establish  international codes.
(10.11) As regards aragraph 26, théreisone point that we consider to be of the greatest importance and  gravity, Reference fe made here to education for international understanding. It has been said, and the  delegation of Peru has stated this in the general debate, that education for international understanding  must be directed, Inter alfa, towards clarifying the contradictions between the dominating and the domfnated  countries; these are underlying differences of an economic and political nature, and as long as no solution  is found for ‘hem misunderstending will continue,
(10.12) Itisatthe structural level that contradictions exist; therefore, to encourage the publication of books  for schoolchildren deeling with the culture and way of life of foreigh countries seems to us not merely  naive, Ingenuous and foolieh, but downright hypocritical. International understanding is possible only when  fmperialism has been destroyed and every form of economic and political domination by one people or one  system over other peoples has been done away with,
(10.13) We would suggest, then, that the paragraph bhould read, "one of Unesco's great tasks should be  to help the peoples of its Member States to get to know each other better", that Is to say, to be aware of  the contradictions between dominating and dominated countries and of the incompatibility between the  “interests of the peoples and monopoly interests; we might then say, "by encouraging, for example, the  publication of books...." and 80 on.
(10.14) Unless these two notions are clarified - i.e., that there are differences between dominating and  dominated countries - there can be no international understanding. While there are monopolies and trans.  national corporations, more powerful than countries themselves - and than a great many of the Third  World countries - and while there fs a conflict between such interests and those of the people, there will  be no International understanding.
(10.15) Mr. President, we think it essential that these ideas, which have been unanimously accepted by  countries that are experiencing exploitation and domination, should be included In the conclusions of the  debate,
(10.16) As regards communication, paragraph 42, it is clear that the Commission hhs adopted the Idea  of the democratization of culture, education and social change. I understand what is meant by the "demo-  cratization of culture and education... " but | do not understand what ia meant by “the democratization  of social change"; this is a meaningless string of words, What we should sey is that there must be effec-  tive democratization of the communication media, through the control'of such media by soclety; and we  should make {t clear that we are not proposing that the Conference declare that such control implies  transfer of the ownership of the communication media to the grass-roots organizations; we are not going  as far as this, but we do want at least a clear statement that "democratization of the information and  communication media" should be achieved through some form of soclal control of these media, which in  many countries are the monopoly of private groups and, at the international level, a monopoly controlled  by International agencies that manipulate information to suit the interests of the groups with which they  are connected,
(10.17) Mr. President, I hope that countries that share our beliefs will also be in favour of the inclusion  of these paragraphs, for we think it preferable to have a majority on questions of substance than unanimity  as to trivialities and commonplaces. Thank you, Mr. President.
11, Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie le représentant du Pérou et je donne la parole au représentant des Pays-Bas.
12. M. KLOMPE (Pays-Bas). - :  Monsieur le Président, j'avais demandé la parole au momént où le paragraphe 43 était en dis-  cussion, L'honorable délégué de l'Iran à proposé ‘que l'ôn parle dans ce paragraphe de "codes  internationaux! Mais, à la Commission IV, on avait, si niès Informations son exactes, rejeté  après une longue discussion l'idée d'avoir des codés internationaux, et cela pour plusieurs rai-  sons, dont l'une était que l'on ne peut pas aboutir à des codes internationaux si l'on n'a pas tout  d'abord des codes nationaux, J'appuie donc la remarque de l'honorable délégué du Pérou : si l'on  a, dans une deg commissions, posé en principe qu'il faudrait se préoccuper d'établir des "codes  nationaux", je crois vraiment que l'on doit, ici même, se référer également à des "codes natio-  naux". Je vous remercie,
13, Le PRESIDENT. -  Je remercie la représentante des Pays-Bas et je donne la parole au représentant de la Guinée.
14,1 M, CAMARA (Guinée). -  Monsieur le Président; je veux tout d'abord dire que je partage entièrement l'opinion que  l'honorable délégué du Pérou vient de nous exposer et que j'adhère totalement à ses propositions,
14,2 D'autre part, {1 y a dans le document 18 C/119 Add. certains'paragraphes qui, & notre avis,  ne reprennent pas entièrement les amendements qui avalent été proposés par les délégations au  cours du débat, Au paragraphe 3, par exemple, il est bién question de la paix et de la sécurité  internationale, mais, au cours du débat général, de nombreuses délégations de pays du Tiers  Monde avaient parlé de problèmes qui entrent dans ce cadre et fait remarquer que, si certaines  priorités n'étaient pas observées, la communauté internationale ne parviendrait pas à vivre en  paix ou en sécurité : je veux parler des priorités à accorder à l'indépendance et à la justice, dont  on ne trouve nulle mention dans ce paragraphe. Au paragraphe 4, nous remarquons, bien que nous  n'ayons certés aucune passion pour la'guérre, que l'expression "la lutte contre les incitations à la  guerre! peut prêter à confusion, Il y a en cffet des guerres qui sont justes et des guerres qui dont  injustes : ce sont les guerres de domination qui doivent être condamnées, Nous souhaiterions  donc que l'on dise "la lutte contre les incitations aux guerres de domination". Les mouvements  de libération sont, quant à eux, obligés de faire la guerre pour se libérer. On ne peut pas con-  damner le peuple du Viêt-nam pour avoir mené une guerre contre ges agresseurs, ni les peuples  arabes pour s'être opposés par les armes A l'agression sioniste, II faut donc remanier le texte  dé telle sorte qu'aucune confusion ne soit possible entre les guerres de domination et les autres.
14.3 Enfin, il est très souvent question dans le document du dévouement de l'Unesco ‘A la cause de  la paix et de la coopération internationale. Nous pensons qu'il faudrait, en de telles occasions,  bien préciser ce que nous entendons par coopération internationale. La nouvelle stratégie à appli-  quer en matière de coopération ne doit évidemment plus reposer sur la charité, et la coopération  dont nous parlons ne doit pas non plus ètre analogue à celle qui exiate entre le cavalier et te che-  val. Il faudrait donc que nous précisions ce que nous entendons par le mot “coopération” et ce  que nous entendons par le mot "paix". Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
15. Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie le représentant de 1a Guinée, Je donne la parole à la représentante de la Bulgarie,  Vice-Présidente du Comité de rédaction,
16. Mrs. MILEVA (Bulgaria) (Vice-Chairman of the Drafting Committee):  Mr. President, for the moment, Ionly want to say that the original of this draft fe In French  and English, Maybe there are some mistakes in the translation and some omissions in the Spanish  and the Russian texts, As was already pointed out to me by the distinguished delegate of Argentina,  in fact, the word "militarism" has not been deleted fn paragraph 4 of the Spanish text. But it  should be considered as deleted, since French and English are the original languages of the draft,
31 17.1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie Mme la Vice-Présidente du Comité de rédaction, qui vient de tairé observer que
1e mot "militarisme" a été maintenu par erreur dans le texte espagnol, alors qu'il a bien été sup-  primé dans les autres versions,
17.2 Je donne la parole au représentant de l'Ukraine.
18.1 - P-x B.A. KPABEII (Ykpannoxan CônseTczan CounanucThuecKkan Pecny6nuxa)  Brnarogapp Bac, rocnoakH Npeacenarens. Focnona ReñeTaTH, MHe XoTenoch 6H BepHyTh Balle  BHHMAHHO K TOMY JaC0AAHHD, KOTOPOË COCTOANOCH HECKOIBKO HER TOMY HA3AA FOA APeACEeAaTe/Nb-  CTBOM yBAXA@MOro rnash Ae/erauxH CoeguHenHsx IUTaToB AMepHkH, -Ha KOTOPOM JAOKYMEHT
18 C/119 - peayat’rar paGors PexaklHOHHOTO KOMHTE@TA, MOABOALNETO HTOTH OÔMER AHCKYCCHH Ha  nneHapuisx sacexaHHax D'exneparnbHoi KonGepoHLHH - Gu TIOABEPprHyT OÔCTOATENBHOMY aHANHAY.
18.2 HeCKOALKO Aenerauxñ BHICTYNHIH B AHCKYCCHH HO STOMY AOKYMOHTY H BHOCAH KOHKPOTHBIE FNO-  NpaBKH, NoXenaHHa. 3ateM IIpeacegatTe/b NPHHIN pemeHHe, HTO yHeCTh 3TH MONPABKH Ay4Aue BCEro  CMOXQT PenaxuWoHHHH KOMHTOT H BHHOCTH CBOE PpemeHHe Ha Harie on06penne. 51 xouy BHCOKO, no-  ANOXHT6ABHO OLJEHHTL TPYAHYD pabGoTy POAAaKUHONHOrO KOMHTeTa, JlIeACTBHTOILHO, B YCHOBHAX, KOT-  Aa p obmeñ AHCKYCCHH NPHHAAH yyacTHe 125 Aenerauxñ, KOrAa K TAKOMY COPLEJHOMY AOKYMEHTY
63110 IPeACTaBN@HO CTONBKO AONONHHTONLHHX MONPABOK, PEAAKLHOHHHHÉ KOMHTET, COCTOAMHA H3  npeAcTaBHToNnel Pa3snHuHHX PETHOHOB H Tpynn, NPOAenan KonoccanbHym paGoty H, PyKOBOACTBYACE,  BHAHMO, YYBCTBOM KOMMPOMHCCA, YyBCTBOM Pa3yMHOH OAOPXAHHOCTH, NPHHAN BO BHHMaHHE BCE Te  CEPLE@IHHE MONPABKH H MOXO/AHHA, KOTOPLIE BHCKA3bIBa/HCh MHOTHMH Ne/IerauHAMH.
18.3 fi NOBTOPpAND, YTO STO OHAA Henerkas pabora 5 5 NOBTOPAD, 4T0 Hama ‘aenerauxx Toxe He Gbi-  Aa YAOBICTBOPEHA UEALIM PAROM MONOXEHHÀ, LGANM PAAOM HyHKTOB AOKyMOHTa, KOTOpHIl MH ObCyYX-  nae, Ham xorenoct 64 CKAIATB MO-HHOMY, poste, TBepxe, onpeje/igHHee, HO, PHAHMO, HAAO MPH-  CAYLHBATHLCH H K MHEHHD APYTHX ACNCTALIHA, KOTOPHE CYHTANT, YTO uenecoobpajnee aamath Hop  MY/IHPOBKH HHHI@, BOT TaKHe, KOTOPHE, CKAXEM, COAEPXATCR B AOKYMEHTE, KOTOPHHA MH CETOAHA  obcyxaaeM.
18.4 H ceñuac, rocnoauH Npeacepatens, MON ACNOTAUXA HAXOAHTCA B HEKOTOPOM HOAOYMEHHH.  Heyxenu y Hac OMATHL OTKPHNACL o6mas AHCKYCCHH? Hau Mb GAHHMACMCA YTBOPKACHHEM KOHKPp@THO-  ro AOKyMeHTa, NpeACTaB/eHHoro PeaakHHOHHHMM KOMHTE@TOM ? Ecs1H KaKHe-TO AOnérauHH He yaopne-  TBOP@HH TEMH HAW HHNMH HO/OX@HHAMH HAH HX MONPABKH He OHM yuTenH PenaKUHOHHHM KOMHTE-  TOM, TaK MOxeT GHTb Hama KoHdepeHUHs MyTeM FONOCOBAHHA NpHMET pemeHHe NO 3THM MONOXEHH-  AM H [10 3THM MONPaBKaM. 51 NpeAnarap nepeiTH HENOCPOACTBEHHO K YTBEPXACHHP AOKYMEHTA.
18.5 UYro me KacaeTca yrposn Agnérauxx Kurad, yro nyyme He HMETb BOOÔME AOKYMEHTA Ha ITY  TeMy, TO MHE KaxeTcs, ¥TO TyT HHYGFO YAHBHTONBHOTO HET: Aenerawis KHTas rosnocosana npoius  pésonnuxk 06 yKkpenneHHit Me xayHapoakofi GasomacHocTH B OOH, npoTHe cossisa BcemxpHoñ KoH-  depeHIHH NO pasopyMeHHD, NPOTHB COKPAMEHHA BOCHHHX 6vaxeros Ha 10 npou. crpaH - MNOCTOAH-  HHX YTeHoB CopeTa BesonacHocTH, He NPHHHMA/NA yuâCTHA B TONOCOBAHHH NO CAMHM OCTPHM Npo6-  ñemMam BriuxHero BocTtoka p Cosere BesonacHocTn. ,B STOM HET HHYero YAHBHT@/bHOrO. DT0 - NO-
3HUHA ACHETAUHH KHTaH - NycTL OHA OCTA@TCA ee COÛCTBEHHOÏ NOIHLHEH. BHarogapp Bac, FOCMOANH  FipeacenaTesb. -
(18.1) Mr. KRAVETS (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr, President. Fellow delegates, I should like to draw your attention to the meeting held  a few days ago and presided over by the distinguished Head of the Delegation of the United States of  America, at which document 18 C/119 - the fruit of the labours of the Drafting Coinmittee that summed up  the results of the general debate in the plenary meetings of the General Conference - wis submitted ta  detailed analysis.
(18.2) Several delegations spoke in the discussion on this document, making specific amendments and  expressing specific wishes, The President subsequently decided that these amendments could best be  considered by the Drafting Committee which would then submit its decisions for our approval. I want  to express my high and abundant regard for the Drafting Committee's hard work, Indeed, considering that
125 delegations spoke in the general debate and that s0 many extra amendments were proposed to such a  welghty document, the Drafting Committee, made up of representatives from various reglons and groups,  has done a colossal job of work and, clearly guided by the spirit of compromise and wise restraint, has  taken into account all those serious amendments and wishes which were expressed by many delegations.
(18.3) 1 must répeat that this was hot an easy task and I'must Fepeat that our delegation, (oo, was not  satisfied with a whole series of provisions and & whole number of paragraphs În the document which we  are discussing, We would have liked things to be expressed differently, with more strength, moré (irr.  ness and more precision, but one must obviously heed the opinions of other delegations who feel ft more  suitable to have different wording such as is contained in the document we are discussing today.
(18.4) Now, Mr, President, my delegation finds itself In some bewilderment. Have we really begun the  general debate all over again? Or are we concerned with approving the specific document submitted to  us by the Drafting Committee? If any delegations are not satisfied with any particular provisions or if  thefr amendmen(s have not been \alen into consideration by the Drafting Cominittee, our Conference will  perhaps come to à decision by voting on these provisions and amendments, I propose that wé should pass  siraight away to the approval of the document,
(18.5) With regard to the threats made by the delegation of China that it would bé better to have no docu-  ment at all on this subject, I feel that there is nothing to be surprised at here, The delegation of China  has voted agalnat resolutions to strengthen international security in the United Nations, ugainsi the con-
162   vening of a World Disarmament Confererice and ‘against the ten per cent cut in the military budgets of those  countries which are permanent memters of the Security Council, and has not taken part in the voting in  the Security Councll on the most pressing problems of the Middle East. There is nothing surprising in  this, This {s the position of the delegation of China. May it remain its own position. Thank you,  Mr, President,
19. Le PRESIDENT. -  Je donne la parole au représentant de 1a Tchécoslovaquie qui a soulevé un à point d'ordre.
20. Tpo®. M. 'PEI'YC (UYexocnosauxas CounantoTHuecKkan Pecny6auxa):  Cnacu6o, r-H lpeaceaatens, Yexocnosankana ACHOTAUHA NONACPXHBACT NPOANOXOHHE YKpAHHE  NPHCTYNHTH K FONOCOBAHHD MO TOMY AOKYMEHTY.
(20.) Mr. GREGUS (Czechoslovak Socialist Republic) (Translation from ‘the Russian):  Thank you, Mr, President, The Czechoslovak delegation supports the proposal made by the Ukraine  that we should proceed to vote on this document.
21.1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Je n'avais pas compris que la délégation de l'Ukraine avait proposé la clôture du débat, mais  après le point d'ordre soulevé par M, le délégué de la Tchécoslovaquie, il est clair que nous nous  trouvons maintenant dans la situation prévue au paragraphe 76 du Règlement Intérieur de la Confé-  rence générale : ''Un’Etat membre ou un Membre associé peut à tout moment proposer la clôture  du débat, qu'il y ait ou non des orateurs inscrits. Si la parole est demandée contre la clôture,  elle est accordée à deux orateurs au plus. Le président consulte la Conférence générale sur la  motion de clôture. Si la Conférence approuve la motion, le président prononce la clôture du débat",
21.2 Je donnerai donc la parolé à deux orateur au plus.
21.3 M. le déléguë de la Chine.
22.1 M, YEH CHENG-PA (République populaire de Chine) (Déclaration faite en chinois. Version  française établie d'après l'interprétation). -  Monsieur le Président, le délégué de l'Ukraine a tout à l'heure avancé une proposition, la dé-  légation chinoise s'y oppose. A en juger par le déroulement du débat, nous pensons qu'il y 'à une  grande divergence de vues au sujet de ce document. La délégation chinoise a déjà exposé sa posi-  tion de principe A cet égard à une précédente réunion, et présenté ce soir même son point de vue  sur ic texte révisé. Au cours de ce débat, d'autres délégations, par exemple celle du Pérou et  de la Guinée, ont, elles aussi, soumis des amendements justes et qui prouvent qu'il y a des diver-  gences de vues sur la substance du problème. ‘Vouloir résoudre ce problème simplement par un  vote n'est pas une bonne pratique. C'est pourquoi nous sommes contre la proposition de mettre  aux voix le document, :
22.2 Par ailleurs; le délégué de l'Ukraine a dit quelques mots sur }a délégation chinoise, et j'ai-  merais maintenant lui donner une réponse très brève, La délégation d'Ukraine a déformé la posi-  tion de la délégation chinoise : c'est peine perdue, Ce que nous déclarons, c'est qu'il ne faut pas  que les délégués soviétiques se vantent ici, Nous leur disons : Montrez votre sincérité par des  actes, si vous voulez la paix, Montrez par vos actes que vous voulez la détente ; si vous voulez  le désarmement, montrez-le par des actes, Vous dites que vous êtes contre les incitations à la  guerre : eh bien montrez votre volonté par des actes. Vous envoyez des centainés de millters de  soldats, des centaines d'avions, des milliers de tanks jusqu'à la capitale d'un da vos alliés pour  l'occuper. Qu'est-ce qué cela ? Est-ce la paix ? Est-ce de la propagahde pour la paix ? Non,  c'est un acte de guerre, mais du bout des lèvres | Vous dites que vous êtés contre la propagande  de guerre : n'est-ce pas là une moquerié de grande taille ? Ce que nous ‘voyons, ce sont les actes.  Ce n'est pas un remède de charlatan qu'il faut apporter ici. Ce que nous faisons, c'est combattre  votre vantardise. Merci, Monsieur le Président,
23.1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Merci, Monsieur le délégué de la Chine.
23.2 Nous en sommes toujours à la question de procédure soulevée par la motion d'ordre. Je  vous al lu le Règlement, et je vous ai rappelé que, si la parole était demandée contre la motion de  clôture, j'avais le droit de donner ia parole A deux orateurs. Le délégué de la Chine s'est pronon-  cé déjà contre la clôture ; je peux maintenant donner la parole A une seule délégation.
23.3 Le délégué du Pérou a la parole, après quoi nous passerons immédiatement au vote sur la  motion de clôture,
(24.) Mr. CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President, we regret that we must disagree with the motion proposed by the delegation of the  Ukraine, and we request that the discussion should not be closed, To close the debate when‘such im-  portant matters are under discussion would be (o deny the floor to those of ue who are entitled to speak  in order to clarify important points. I repeat that ft Is preferable to add fresh material to this document  than to accept a text that fails to satisfy a great many countries. Thank you, Mr. President.
25,1 Le PRESIDENT. -  Nous allons donc procéder à un vote sur la motion de clôture du débat.  (Le vote a lieu à main levée) ,
25.2 Voicl le résultat du vote : 31 voix pour, 14 voix contre, 20 abstentions.
25.3 La clôture du débat est donc prononcée.
25.4 Je donne la parole au représentant de la Belgique,
26, M. PRUES (Belgique). -  Monsieur le Président, j'ai une motion d'ordre à présenter. Je voudrais savoir si, après la  clôture du débat, nous allons voter paragraphe par paragraphe sur le texte de résolution et si,  dans ce cas, chacun de nous pourra alors expliquer sa position.
27.1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Si vous le souhaitez, nous procéderons à un vote séparé sur les différents paragraphes, étant  bien entendu qu'il ne saurait ttre question de rouvrir la discussion sur l'un ou l'autre d'entre eux,  puisque la Conférence s'est prononcée pour la clôture du débat.
27.2 Je donne la parole au représentant de la Belgique,
28, M. PRUES (Belgique). -  Monsieur le Président, nous avions demandé la parole avant qu'on ne propose la clôture du  débat.
29,1 Le PRESIDENT. -  Oui, Monsieur le délégué, mais l'article 76 du Règlement est très clair, Je vals vous le re-  lire : ‘Un Etat membre ou un Membre associé peut A tout moment proposer la clôture des débats,  qu'il y ait ou non des orateurs inscrits". Il y avait des orateurs inscrits, la clôture a été deman-  dée ; nous étions donc parfaitement dans la légalité. Je répète que je ne peux faire autrement que  de considérer le débat comme clos, puisque vous-mêmes l'avez clos. Si vous le désirez, nous  procéderons à un vote séparé, paragraphe par paragraphe, mais à mon grand regret, je ne peux  plus donner la parole à personne que sur un point d'ordre ou pour une explication de vote,
29.2 Monsieur le délégué de l'Ethiopie, si vous voulez expliquer votre vote, vous avez le parole,
30, Mr. HABTE (Ethiopia):  Mr. President, 1 simply wanted to explain my vote. I voted agafnst the procedure for the  simple reason that closure of a debate on the fssue takes away the rights of Member States who  have not been represented on the Drafting Committee to seek clarifications and to bring about im-  provement. I think that this procedure Is totally alien and should not be encouraged in this kind  of open debate in Unesco. Thank you.
31.1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Merci, Monsieur 1e délégué d'Ethiopie.
31.2 M. le délégué du Canada.
32. M, GAGNON (Canada). - (  Monsieur le Président, n'y aurait-il pas moyen, si l'on vote paragraphe par paragraphe, que  les délégués puissent expliquér leur attitude après que tout le document aura 4t6 accepté ou rejeté ?
33,1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Monsieur le délégué, à n'importe quel moment, une explication de vote sera possible. Je me  permets de vous signaler que nous voterons sur l'ensemble du document et que vous aurez alors.  le droit d'expliquer votre vote.
33.2 Monsieur le délégué des Etats-Unis d'Amérique.
34, Mr, WARVARIV (United States of America): 31  Thank you Mr. President, I abstained on the vote because of the new addition to paragraph 7;  the last sentence in paragraph 7, which was added by the Drafting Committee. 1 intended to sug-  gest that this particular paragraph be brought in line with the language which was agreed in the  Drafting Committee concerning the 18 C/4 document, I am referring to document-18 C/PRG/4  Addendum, which I believed was worked out under your very able chairmanship, Mr, President,  and I am referring to page 4 of that document which says that Unesco should contribute within  its spheres of competence "to the establishment of a new economic order as foreseen and adopted  in resolutions 3, 201 and 3,202" of the sixth special session of the United Nations General Assembly.  I thought, Mr, President, that suggesting this language which was already agreed in the working  party dealing with document 18 C/4 could have improved our present text in document 119 Add.  Annex, and this would have allowed us to vote in favour of that document, Thank you, Sir,
35. Le PRESIDENT. -  Merci, Monsieur le délégué des Etats-Unis d'Amérique. M, le délégué de la Turquie dé-  sire-t-il expliquer son vote ?
36, M, TUNCEL (Turquie), -  Monsieur le Président, je propose que l'on vote sur l'ensemble du projet de résolution, car  voter paragraphe par paragraphe ne servira à rien, Effectivement, on dira non ou oui,
37.1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Je suis donc en présence de deux propositions, L'une est que {e vous invite à vous prononcer  sur chaque paragraphe séparément, et telle était A vrai dire mon intention : je pensais demander  pour chaque paragraphe s'il y avait une opposition, auquel cas on votait immédiatement ; sinon,  on ne votait pas. Mais M, le délégué de la Turquie vient de proposer que l'on vote sur l'ensemble.
37,2 C'est à vous de décider.
37.3 M, le délégué de la Belgique.
38.1 M. PRUES (Belgique). -  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais poser une question.
38.2 En ce qui concerne le paragraphe 43, nous avons entendu deux interprétations différentes,  Certains délégués ont dit qu'il fallait parler de codes nationaux, d'autres on dit qu'il fallait parler  de codes internationaux : comment pouvons-nous dès lors voter en bloc sur l'ensemble de tous ces  paragraphes ?
38,3 De mème, la délégation belge a certaines remarques à faire en ce qui conce.ne la rédaction  du paragraphe 60,
38.4 Comment, dans ces conditions, pouvons-nous voter en bloc un texte sur lequel il y a et il y  a eu, avant que l'on ait voté la clôture du débat, différentes interprétations ? Je vous remercie,  Monsieur le Président.
39. Le PRESIDENT. -  Je comprends d'après votre explication que vous préférez un vote séparé paragraphe par para-  graphe.
40. M, PRUES (Belgique). -  Ja l'ai toujours demandé, Monsieur le Président.
41. Le PRÉSIDENT. -  Etant donné que d'après l'article 85 de notre Règlement la division est de droit si elle est de-  mandée, nous allons voter paragraphe par paragraphe, Vous voulez parler sur cette question,  Monsieur le délégué de l'Argentine ? Vous avez la parole.
(42.) Mr. PICO (Argentina) (Translation from the Spanish):  Yes, Mr. President, I wish to ask for an explanation. If we vote paragraph by paragraph, without  reopening the discussion, will it be possible to propose an amendment to a specifié peragraph or rot?
43,1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Monsieur le délégué, je suis obligé de vous s répêter que le débat est clos. C'est vous qui  l'avez décidé, ce n'est pas moi.
43,2 Monsieur le délégue du Pérou, vous avez la parole.
(44.) Mr. CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. Presidént, we consider that we should vote paragraph by paragraph, but that each paragraph  should be read out so that we know what we are voting on, since there is some confusion as to how the  text stands, We therefore propose, In order to simplify discussion, that a vote be taken paragraph by  paragraph, and thet each paragraph should previously be read out, so that we are clear as to what we  are voting for, Thank you, Mr. President.
45,1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Vous comprenez, Monsieur le délégué, que-nous allons passer la nuit ici,
45,2 Monsieur le délégué de la Belgique.
46. M, PRUES (Belgique). -  Nous sommes là pour ça, Monsieur le Président,
47, Le PRESIDENT. -  M. le délégué de la Suisse,
48. M, HUMMEL (Suisse). -  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais, dans l'espoir de vous simplifier ‘un peu la tâche, deman-  der à nos amis belges s'ils n'estiment pas que l'on pourrait limiter le nombre des paragraphes  qui devraient faire l'objet d'un vote séparé, Je ne pense pas que tous les paragraphes posent des  problèmes. 11y en a certains que je souhaiterais, moi aussi, voir mettre aux voix isolément ;  mais ils sont très peu nombreux. Je vous remercie.
49.1 Le PRESIDENT. -  Je vous propose de prendre les différents paragraphes les uns après les nutres; les para-  graphes ne donnant lieu à aucune objection seront considérés comme adoptés ; les autres seront  mis aux voix,
49.2 Je constate que vous ttes d'accord sur cette façon de procéder et vous invite à examiner  l'annexe au document 18 C/119 à partir de la Partie I - "Principes et objectifs" en tenant compte  des révisions proposées par le Comité de rédaction dans l'annexe au document 18 C/119 Add,
49.3 S'il n'y a pas d'observations au sujet du paragraphe 1, je le considère comme adopté.
49.4 A la demande du réprésentant de la Guinée, je mets aux voix le paragraphe 2.  (Le vote a lieu à main levée)
49.5 Voici le résultat du vote : 54 voix pour, aucune voix contre, 3 abstentions, Le paragraphe
2 est adopté.
49.6 A la demande du représentant de la Guinée, je mets aux voix le paragraphe 3, tel qu'il figure  dans le document 18 C/119 Add, Annexe,  (Le vote a leu à main levée)
49,7 Voici le résultat du vote : 47 voix pour, deux voix contre, 4 abstentions. Le paragraphe 3  est adopté.
49,8 À la demande du représentant de la Guinée, je mots aux voix le paragraphe 4 tel qu'il figure  dans le document 18 C/119 Add, Annexe,  (Le vote a lieu à main levée)
49,9 Voici le résultat du vote : : 53 voix pour, 4 voix contre, 3 abstentions. Le paragraphe 4 est  adopté.
49.10 Je donne la parole au représentant de la Belgique, pour une motion d'ordre,
50. M, PRUES (Belgique), -  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais savoir quel est exactement le texte sur lequel nous som-  mes invités A voter, S'agit-il de celui qui figure au paragraphe 5 du document 119 Addendum ?  Si out, je vous rappele que la délégation du Pérou avait proposé certains amendements à ce texte.
51.1 Le PRESIDENT. - . ER .  Monsieur le délégué, je n'ai pour ma part regu aucune proposition d'amendement, Nous avons  entendu des remarques, mais aucune proposition formelle d'amendement n'a êté déposée, Je , |  crois donc que nous sommes obligés de voter sur le seul texte dont nous disposions : celut qui fi-  gure dans le document.
51,2 Je donne la parole au représentant du Pérou,
(52.) Mr, CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish): -  One question, Mr. President. Will amendments submitted before the motion to close the debate was  voted upon be taken Into account? If so, I should be grateful if you would take Into account the amendment  to paragraph 5 that we suggested, concerning "full and balanced development”.
53.1 Le PRESIDENT. -  Je constate, Monsieur le délégué du Pérou, que votre proposition d'amendement a bien été  notée. Elle est donc valable,
53.2 Je mets donc aux voix l'amendement proposé par le représentant du Pérou, selon lequel on  utiliserait au paragraphe 5 l'expression ‘développement intégral et équilibré".  (Le vote a lieu à main levée)
53.3 Voici le résultat du vote : 44 voix pour, aucune voix contre, 11 abstentions,
53.4 L'amendement du Pérou est donc adopté, Nous allons maintenant voter sur le texte du para-  graphe 5 tel qu'il vient d'être modifié par l'amendement du Pérou.  (Le vote a lieu à main levée)
53.5 Voici le résultat du vote : 42 voix pour, une voix contre, 6 abstentions. Le paragraphe 5  amendé est adopté.
53.6 Je donne la parole au délégué du Gabon.
54, M, MAGWANGU (Gabon). -  Monsieur le Président, c'est une explication de vote que je voudrais présenter, J'al voté  contre le paragraphe 5, parce que, malgré l'amendement qui lui a été apporté sur la proposition  de l'honorable délégué du Pérou, ce paragraphe ne répond pas A ce que devrait être en 1974 l'es-  prit de l'Organisation. La paix ne doit pas ttre considérée comme conditionnant le développement:  c'est le développement qui doit conditionner la paix, Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
55, Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie le représentant du Gabon. Je donne la parole au représentant de la Suisse,
56. M. HUMMEL (Suisse). -  Monsieur le Président, si je me suis abstenu, c'est parce que, pendant le débat, j'avais pro-  posé un amendement visant à faire introduire dans le paragraphe en cause la notion de défense des  droits de l'homme, amendement qui, bien que soutenu par plusieurs délégations, n'a pas été retenu.  Je vous remercie.
57. Le PRESIDENT, -  Merci, Le délégué du Sénégal.
58. M. DIENE (Sénégal), -  Monsieur le Président, ma délégation invoque, pour expliquer son vote, les mêmes raisons  que la délégation du Gabon, Je rappelle que nous avions formellement proposé la suppression des  mots "apres la paix", estimant comme le Gabon que c'est en fait le développement - un developpe-  ment juste - qui conditionne l'existence d'une paix juste. Je vous remercie.
59. Le PRESIDENT, - _  Je remercie le représentant du Sénégal. La Présidente du Comité de rédaction a la parole.
60. Mrs, MILEVA (Bulgaria) (Vice- Chairman of the Drafting Committee):  Mr. President, we voted on the paragraphs which have been amended in the Annex as they  appear in the Annex to document 18 C/119 Add, There the words "after peace" have been  deleted. They did not exist.
31 61, Le PRESIDENT, -
11 est bien évident que nous votons sur les textes amendés qui ont été mis au point par le Co-  mits de rédaction. Je donne la parole au représentant du Sénégal.
62, M, DIENE (Sénégal), -  Monsieur le Président, ma délégation est très heureuse d'apprendre que, dans le texte origi-  nal, les mots ‘'après la paix" ont été supprimés. I conviendrait donc de les éliminer de la version  française, où its ont êté maintenus par erreur. Dans ces conditions, ma délégation retire son ex-  plication de vote. :
63. Le PRESIDENT, -  Merci, Je donne la parole au représentant du Gabon,
64. M, MAGWANGU (Gabon). -  Monsieur le Président, je désire simplement indiquer que ma position est identique à celle du  représentant du Sénégal. Je vous remercie,
65. Le PRESIDENT, -  Merci, Je donne la parole au représentant de la Suisse.
66. ‘M, HUMMEL (Suisse). -  Monsieur le Président, ma position est identique A celle de mes amis du Sénégal et du Gabon,
67. Le PRESIDENT.-  Merci, Je donne la parole au représentant du Pérou.
(68,) Mr, CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President, 1 agree with my friends, the delegates of Gabon and Senegal, for the words "after  pence" are in the Spanish version.
69.1 Le PRESIDENT, -  .Je vous remercie. Il est regrettable en effet qu'il y ait des divergences entre les textes,
69.2 Bon. Nous en sommes maintenant au paragraphe 6,
69.3 S'il n'y a pas d'observations sur le paragraphe 6, je le considère comme adopté.
69.4 Nous passons au paragraphe 7 tel qu'il est amendé dans le document 18 C/119 Add,
69.5 Le représentant des Etats-Unis demande-t-il que l'on vote sur ce paragraphe ?
70. Mr. WARVARIV (United States of America):  Yes, Mr. President, I am asking for a vole.
71.1 Le PRESIDENT, -  J3 mets donc aux voix le paragraphe 7.  {le vote a lieu à main levée)
71.2 ‘Voici te résultat du vote : 54 voix pour, une voix contre, 15 abstentions, Le paragraphe 7  est adopté.
71.3 Hous passons au paragraphe 8,
71.4 Le représentant des Etats-Unis a demandé la parole, Souhaite-t-il parler sur le para-  graphe 8 ?
72, Mr, WARVARIV (United States of America):  No, Mr. President, I only wish to explain my vote on paragraph 7,
73, Le PRESIDENT, -  Je donne donc la parole au représzntant des Etats-Unis pour une explication de vote,
74. Mr. WARVARIV (United States of America): ’  Mr. President, I voted against the last sentence in that paragraph which begins with the words  "therefore Unesco should give", for reasons which I explained in my previous intervention,  because I vhought that the language which was worked out after lengthy discussicn in the working  group on 18 C/4 would have been more acceptable, Since we were not in a position to amend this  last sentense, and since this sentence was not discussed before in this forum, I had to vote against,  Thank you, Mr. President, ‘
75, Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie le représentant des Etats-Unis d'Amérique. Le représentant de la Suisse a la  parole,
76, M. HUMMEL (Suisse). -  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais très brièvement expliquer mon vote sur }e paragraphe 7.  Si je me suis abstenu, c'est A cause de l'ajout de la dernière phrase, N'étant pas membre de  l'Organisation des Nations Unies, mon pays n'a pas eu le privilège de participer aux décisions qui  ont été prises sur le Programme d'action pour l'instauration du nouvel ordre économique mondial  et n'a pas eu par conséquent la possibilité de formuler les réserves qu'il aurait eu à faire sur ce  programme, Merci,
77.1 Le PRESIDENT. -  Le paragraphe 8 ne donnant apparemment lieu à aucune objection, je le considère comme  adopté.
77.2 Je considère que les paragraphes 9, 10, 11 et 12, qui n'ont fait l'objet d'aucune modification  de la part du Comité de rédaction et n'ont soulevé aucune objection, sont adoptés.
77.3 S'il n'y a pas d'objection; je considère les paragraphes 13 et 14, tels qu'ils figurent dans le  document 18 C/119 Add, Annexe, comme adoptés.
77,4 Je mets aux voix le paragraphe 15.  (Le vote a lieu à main levée)
77.5 Voici le résultat du vote : 55 voix pour, 2 voix contre, 12 abstentions. Le paragraphe 15  est adopté.
77.6 Nous passons au paragraphe 16.
77.7 Je donne la parole au Secrétaire de la Conférence générale qui va vous donner lecture de  l'amendement à ce paragraphe présenté par le représentant du Pérou avant la clôture du débat.
78. The SECRETARY:  Thank you, Mr. President, I belleve that the amended text ran “The continuing existence of  trouble spots and the resurgence of fascist and neo-fascist forces in the world and other forms  of totalitarian oppression... "here comes the amendment "due to imperialism in various parts  of the world call for further effective efforts to increase Unesco's contribution to the defence of  human rights and fundamental freedoms and to the cause of peace". So the amendment consists  of three words in English "due to imperialism". Thank you.
79. Le PRESIDENT. -  Le représentant du Pérou est-il d'accord ?
(80.) Mr, CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  Yes, Mr, President.
81,1 Le PRESIDENT. -  Nous allont' voter sur l'amendement présenté par la délégation du Pérou.  (Le vote a lieu à main levée)
81,2 Voici el résultat du vote : 40 voix pour, aucune voix contre, 22 abstentions. L'amendement  du Pérou est adopté.
81.3 Quelqu'un a-t-il des objections à l'adoption de l'article 16 tel qu'il vient d'ête amendé ?
81.4 En l'absence d'objections, je considère que l'article 16 amendé est adopté.
81.6 Nous passons A la deuxième partie intitulée "Moyens d'atteindre les objectifs et d'accroftre  l'efficacité de l'Unesco",
81.8 En ce qui concerne le paragraphe 17, quelqu'un a-t-1l des objections À la nouvelle version  qui figure dans l'Addendum ?
81,7 En l'absence d'objections, je considère que l'article 17 est adopté.
81.8 Pour le paragraphe 18, il n'y à pas de changement,
31 81.9 En l'absence d'objections, je considère ce paragraphe comme adopté.
81.10 Je passe au paragraphe 19, pour lequel il n'y a pas de changement, Pas d'objections ?  Adopté.
81,11 En l'absence d'objections, je considère le paragraphe 19 comme adopts.”
81,12 Pour les paragraphes 20, 21, 22 et 23, il n'y a pas de changement.
81.13 En l'absence d'objections, je considère ces paragraphes comme adopté .
81.14 Nous passons à la partie intitulée "Education",
81,15 Pour le paragraphe 24 nous avons un nouveau texte, Un amendement a en outre 6t6 déposé  par le Pérou, Pourriez-vous, Monsieur le Secrétaire, m'en donner lecture ?
82. The SECRETARY: . .  Thank you, Mr, President. As I understand it, the amendment proposed by the delegate of  Peru would be to delete the words "which is designed to bridge the gap between the developing  and developed countries’, so that the sentence would read: "Education remains one of the major  factors in the process of cultural, economic and soclal development which is aimed at culminating  in a just and balanced world structure”. .
83, Le PRESIDENT. -  Je donne la parole au représentant du Pérou,
(84,) Mr. CHIAPPO (Peru) (Tranelation from the Spanish):  Mr. President, in order to remove any doubt concerning the amendment submitted jointly by Venezuela  and Peru, I would state that the sentence should read as follows; "Education remains one of the major  factors In the process of cultural, economie and social development which is designed to culminate in the  establishment of a just and balanced world structure”.
85. Le PRESIDENT. - :  Je donne la parole à Madame la Présidente du Comité de rédaction,
86, Mrs, MILEVA (Bulgaria): .  I belleve it is once more a question of translation. The Peruvian amendment-to replace the  words “education is still the major factor’ by the words "education remains one of the major  factors" has been adopted and you can see it in the new Annex which we have before us. Also the  final part of the sentence, “to culminate In a just and balanced world structure" was an amend-  ment proposed by the Peruvian delegation at the previous meeting, which was adopted here. So,  in fact, the new amendment is only to delete the words ‘to bridge the gap between the developing  and the developed countries’. The first and the last of the amendments of the Peruvian delegation  already exist in the new Annex. Thank you.
87.1 Le PRESIDENT. - .  Ces amendements figurent en effet dans le texte français, Il conviendrait de s'assurer qu'ils  figurent aussi dans le texte espagnol.
87.2 Je mets maintenant aux voix ceux des amendements proposés par le représentant du Pérou  qui n'ont pas été incorporés dans le document 18 C/119 Add, Annexe
87.3 Le résultat du vote est le suivant : 37 voix pour, 4 voix contre, 11 abstentions. Les amen-  dements en question sont adoptés,
87,4 Je mets maintenant aux voix l'ensemble du paragraphe 24 amendé.
87,6 Le résultat du vote est le suivant : 55 voix pour, aucune voix contre, une abstention, Le  paragraphe 24 amendé est adopté,
87.6 Le paragraphe 25 initial ne donnant leu à aucune objection, je le considère comme adôpté.
87,7 Nous passons maintenant au paragraphe 26 tel qu'il figure dans lé document 18 C/119 Add.
87.8 Je donne la parole au représentant du Pérou,
(88.) Mr. CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish): D :  Mr. President, may I remind you that the delegation of Peru submitted two amendments to  paragraph 26?
89. Le PRESIDENT. -  Merci, Vous avez raison. Je demande au Secrétaire de bien vouloir nous rappeler les amen-  dements proposés par la délégation du Pérou,
90, The SECRETARY: . ! = .  Mr. President, with the amendments submitted in'writing earlier by the delegate of Peru,  paragraph 26 - after the words "its Member States to get to know each other better" - would read  as follows: "to become aware of the basic economic and political contradictions between the  dominating and the dominated countries, and of the incompatibility between the true interests of  peoples and the monopoly interests of the world economic power groups, by encoûraging, for  instance, the publication for schoolchildren of books..... " Thank you,
91, Le PRESIDENT. -  Merci, Monsieur le Secrétaire. Voudriez-vous relire encore une fois ce texte, afin que tout  le monde puisse en comprendre le sens ?. - ‘
92, Le SECRETAIRE, - R  Of course, Mr, President, Perhaps this time I can read it'in Frènch, The end of the para-  graph would read ",.. pour aider les peuples de ses Etats membres à mieux se connaître les uns  les autrés, & avoir consciencé des contradictions fondamentales de caraétère économique et poli-  tique entre pays dominateurs et pays dominés, conscience de l'incompatibilité entre les intérêts  véritables des peuples et les intérêts monopolitiques des groupes exerçant un pouvoir économique  mondial, en encourageant par exemple la publication de livres, etc, ",
93.1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Je mets aux voix l'amendement de la délégation du Pérou,
93.2 Cet amendement est accepté par 18 voix contre, 14 avec et 27 abstentions.
93.3 Nous allons maintenant voter sur le paragraphe 26 de l'addendum ainsi modifié.
93.4 Mme la Vice-Présidente del Comité de rédaction a la parole.
94. Mrs. MILEVA'(Bulgaÿfa): ;  If possible, ‘may I givé ‘an explanation of vote? Mr. President, I abstained, not because I am  against the {dea contained in the Peruvian amendment, but because it was not well enough  formulated and not placed fn the right, coherent place in the text. That {s why I abstained.  Thank you,
95, Le PRESIDENT. -  Je donne la parole au délégué du Mexique pour une explication de vote,
(96,) Mr, CUEVAS CANCINO (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President, I Voted against the Peruvian amendment because it seems tô me that Uneaco's task  ts to unite peoples and not to divide them, and I differ with the representative of Peru {n'that 1 do not  regard it as a diplomatic task. I think that our aim should not be to exacerbate existing differences, but  to try to overcome them; and Ido not belleve that a contentious and controversial text will hélp to achieve  Unesco's lofty purposes. Thank you, Mr. President, : :
97. Le PRESIDENT, -  Je donne la parole au représentant du Chili,
(98.) Mr. BERGUNO (Chile) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President, ! abstalned from voting on this amendment for the same reasons as those of the  delegate of Bulgaria. It seems to me that this is not the place fn which it should be inserted; and {n the  form in which Ît will appear, the reference to the publication of books for schoolchildren on the culture  and way of life of foreign countries involves a certain contradiction. Nevertheless, I share the point of  viow expressed by the delegate of Peru, but I think it stould be expressed in another text, the document  on education for peace and international understanding. It will be In its proper place there. Thank you,  Mr, President.
99. Le PRESIDENT. -  Je donne la parole à la représentante du Venezuela
(100.) Miss SANTANA (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish);  Mr. President, Venezuela abstaired from voting for the same reasons as those of the delegation of  Bulgaria. We should have preferred the delegate of Peru to stress the fact that publications for school-  children on the culture and way of life of foreign countries should refer especially to countries in the  region. Thank you, Mr. President.
101. Le PRESIDENT, -  Je donne la parole au représentant du Pérou,
(102,1) Mr. CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  The rearon for my vote, Mr. President, is that the mission of Péru and of the Peruvian revolution
1s a peaceful one; its object Is to preserve friendship and fraternal relations with other peoples.
(102.2) The President of Peru, Head of the Peruvian Revolution, Genc.al Velasco Alvarado, has proposed  disarmament and the freezing of arme expenditure for ten years, so that all these economic resources,  which are now spent on things that are put to criminal purposes, may be used for the development of our  peoples. I very much regret, therefore, that the Ambassador of Mexico should have interpreted the  Peruvian statement as a proposal for dividing the peoples rather than uniting them.
(102, 3) I consider that if Unesco {= an Organization whose mission is truth and justice it must be aware  that conflicts and tensions, which are symptoms, will not disappear until the basic structural differences  are overcome - and it must gee that this fact is realized by all. Unesco's mission is one of truth and  justice, and our proposal is true and just, its intention being, in the spirit of the Peruvian revolution,  to foster peace with all peoples, with the various States and more especially with our neighbours; Peru's  peaceful mission fs also reflected in thie statement, which is profoundly pacific {n its meaning, If we  think deeply about ft. Thank you, Mr. President.
103.2 Monsieur le délégué des Etats-Unis d'Amérique a la parole.
104, Mr, WARVARIV (United States of America):  Thank you, Mr. President, I voted against the Peruvian amendment which I find, indeed,  very, very unfortunate for the reason so ably expressed by the distinguished representative of  Mexico, Ambassador Cuevas Cancino. Thank you, Sir,
105. Le PRESIDENT. -  Monsieur le délégué du Mexique a la parole,
(106.) Mr. CUEVAS CANCINO (Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr, President, I should like to object to the fact that the delegate of Peru has made use of the right  of reply on the pretext of explaining his vote. There fs an occasion for everything, but this was not the  place for a reply. Thank you,
107.1 Le PRESIDENT. -  Je remercie le représentant du Mexique.
107.2 En tout cas, nous n'avons pas encore voté sur le-paragraphe 26. Nous avons seulement  voté sur l'amendement du Pérou, que nous avons adopté,
107.3 Je mets aux voix le paragraphe 26 tel qu'il a été amendé.
107.4 Voici le résultat du vote: 28 voix pour, 13 voix contre, 19 abstentions, Le paragraphe 26  est adopté.
107.5 Paragraphe 27. Pas de changement proposé. Pas d'objection ? Adopté.
107.6 Paragraphe 28. Pas d'objection ? Adopté.
107.7 Paragraphe 29. Je vous soumets le nouveau texte figurant dans l'addendum. Pas d'objec-  tion ? Adopté.
107.8 Paragraphe 30. Pas de changement, Pas d'objection ? Adopté.
107.9 Nous passons à la partie “Sciences exactes et naturelles".
107.10 Paragraphe 31. Pas de changement, Pas d'objection ? Adopté,
107.11 Paragraphe 32. Pas de changement. Pas d'objection ? Adopté.
107.12 Pour le paragraphe 33, il y a un nouveau texte.
107.13 En l'absence d'objections, je considère ce texte comme adopté.
107.14 Pour le paragraphe 34, il y a également un nouveau texte,
108. M. HUMMEL (Suisse), -  Je m'excuse de vous interrompre, Monsieur le Président, Je ne demande pas le vote, seule-  ment je ne comprends pas du tout la phrase française. N'y a-t-il une faute de frappe ?
109,1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Je vous remercie, ll y a en effet une erreur, On lit dans le document : "Il y aura Heu de  prendre dûment en considération l'inclusion d'un élément sciences sociales dans les programmes  scientifiques qui s'y prêtent, y compris celui de 1'UNISIST le nouveau venu". Ce n'est pus "le  nouveau venu'' mais le "moment venu" que l'on a voulu dire.
109.2 Pas d'objection maintenant ? Le paragraphe 34 eat adopté.
109.3 Paragraphe 35. Pas de changement. Pas d'objection ? Adopté.
109.4 Nous passons maintenant à la partie "Sciences sociales, sciences humaines et culture".
109.5 Pour le paragraphe 36, il y a un nouveau texte, Pas d'objection ? Adopté.
109.6 Nous en arrivons aux paragraphes 37, 38, 39, 40 et 41, Si personne ne demande un vote,  je considère ces paragraphes comme adoptés.
31 109.7 Nous arrivons à la partie "Information".
109,8 Pour le paragraphe 42, il y a un nouveau texte, Pas d'objection ? Adopté.
109.9 Le'paragraphe 43 pose un problème, Après l'Intervention du délégué de l'Irah, Mme la  Yice-Présidente du Comité de rédaction avait accepts que l'on transforme "iationaux" en ‘'inter-  nationaux", mais ensuite deux délégués, celui du Pérou et je crois celui des Pays-Bas, on fait  observer qu'il convenait de maintenir les mots "nationaux", la question ayant été abondamment  réglée par une des commissions du programme,
109,10 Donc, si le-délégué de l'Iran n'insiste pas, il me semble qu'il vaut mieux conserver ''na-  tionaux",
109.11 Le délégué de l'Iran a la parole,
110.1 M. RAHNEMA (Iran), -  Monsieur le Président, j'ai parcouru tout le document, partout nous y parlons d'un nouvel  ordre économique international, expression qui figure d'ailleurs dans le titre. C'est en me réfé-  rant à ce titre que j'avais pensé que si nous voulions faire une étude, il fallait que ce soit une  Etude internationale ; de plus, l'étude de codes nationaux dépend des pays eux-mêmes.
110.2 Je maintiens donc ce que j'avais proposé.
111. Le PRESIDENT. -  M. le délégué de la Belgique a la parole,
112. M, PRUES (Belgique). -  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais faire remarquer que parler de "'codes internationaux" de  déontologie, cela n'a pas de sens, parce qu'il n'en existe pas, On peut faire une étude internatio-  nale de "codes nationaux", mais on ne peut pas faire des études sur des codes qui n'existent pas  à l'heure actuelle. On ne saurait done parler que de l'étude de "codes nationaux" de déontologie  en matière d'information, et c'est bien ainsi que cela a été compris en Commission IV. Merci,  Monsieur le Président.
113.1 Le PRESIDENT. -  Monsieur le délégué de la Belgique, le débat est clos et je n'entends pas le rouvrir, Il semble  bien en effet qu'il s'agisse non plus d'une question de rédaction, mais d'une question de substance.
113.2 Si M, le délégué de l'Iran insiste, je mettrait le paragraphe aux voix, s'il n'insiste pas et  veut bien accepter le témoignage de ses collègues, nous laisserons le mot "nationaux",
113.3 M. le représentant de l'Iran a la parole.
114. M. RAHNEMA (Iran). -  Monsieur le Président, je m'en tiens à ce que j'ai dit.
115.1 Le PRESIDENT. -  Je vais donc mettre aux voix l'amendement proposé par le représentant de l'Iran.
115.2 Mme la Vice-Présidente du Comité de rédaction a la parole.
116, Mrs. MILEVA (Bulgaria) (Vice-Chairman of the Drafting Committee):  Mr. President, I think that the objection made by the distinguished delegate of Belgium has  some value, and if we want to talk of an international code we should say; "might take the form  of a study of the possibility of an international code of ethics".
117.1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Je vous remercie, Madame, Mais étant donné que M, le délégué de l'Iran maintient son amen-  dement, il faut que nous réglicns la question,
117,2 Je mets done aux voix l'amendement du délégué de l'Iran, qui consisterait à remplacer le  mots ‘nationaux! par le mot ‘internationaux’.  (Le vote a lieu à main levée)
117.3 Le résultat du vote est le suivant : une voix pour, 33 voix contre, 16 abstentions. L'amen-  dement est rejeté.
117.4 S'll n'y a plus d'objection sur le paragraphe 43, je le considère comme adopté.
117,5 Paragraphe 44. Pas d'objection ? Adopté.
117.6 Paragraphe 45, nouveau texte, Pas d'objection ? Adopté.
117,7 Nous passons à la partie "Programmes intersectoriels",. La Chine demande que l'on vote  sur le paragraphe 46, ;  (Le vote a lieu à main levée),
117,8 Le résultat du vote est le suivant : 55 voix pour, 2 voix contre, 5 abstentions. Le para-  graphe 46 est donc adopté.
117.9 M, le délégué de la Chine a la parole pour une explication de vote.
118. M. YEH CHENG-PA (Chine) (Déclaration faite en chinois. Version française établie d'après  l'interprétation).- | . , 1114 ;  Monsieur le Président, notre position sur le problème à l'étude a Été déjà exposée au.cours-  d'une précédente séance plénière. Nous avons alors soumis un projet d'amendement que le Comité  de rédaction n'a pas retenu, C'est pourquoi nous avons voté contre le texte qui vient d'être mis  aux voix, Merci, Monsieur le Président.
119,1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Merci, Monsieur le délégué de la Chine,
119.2 Les paragraphes 47 et 48 n'ont pas été modifiés. Y a-t-il des objections ? Non ? Ils sont  adoptés.
119.3 Paragraphe 49, nouveau texte. Pas d'objection ? Adopté,
119,4 Pour le paragraphe 50, il n'y a pas de changement. Pas d'objection ? Adopté.
119.5 Nous passons à la section "Population", qui n'a pas été modifiée,
119,6 La délégation de la Chine ayant demandé un vote sur le paragraphe 51, je mets ce para-  graphe aux voix,  (Le vote a lieu à main levée)
119.7 Voici le résultat du vote : 49 voix pour, une voix contre, 5 abstentions. Le paragraphe 51  est adopté.
119,8 Je donne la parole au délégué de la Chine.
120,1 M. YEH CHENG-PA (République populaire de Chine) (Déclaration faite en chinois. Version  française établie d'après l'interprétation). - ‘  Monsieur le Président, la délégation chinoise voudrait expliquer son vote,
120.2 -Le paragraphe 51 dit que "la population mondiale s'accroft plus vite que la production ali-  mentaire mondiale. Nous pensons que cette affirmation n'est pas en conformité avec la réalité.  Elle nous paraît donc inacceptable et c'est pourquoi la délégation chinoise a voté contre le para-  graphe 51. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président,
121,1 Le PRESIDENT. -  Pour les paragraphes 52, 53, il n'y a pas de changement.
121.2 En l'absence d'objection, je considère ces paragraphes comme adoptés,
121.3 Pour le paragraphe 59 il y a un texte nouveau dans l'Addendum, En l'absence d'objections,  je considère ce texte comme adopté. ;
121,4 Pour le paragraphe 60, il y a également un texte nouveau, Je crois comprendre qué le re-  présentant de la Suisse demande que ce texte fasse l'objet d'un vote.
122. M, HUMMEL (Suisse). -  Oui, Monsieur le Président, je demande un vote,
123,1 Le PRESIDENT. -  Nous allons donc voter dur la nôuvelle version du paragraphe 60.  (Le vote a lieu à main levée)
123.2 Voici le résultat du vote : 38 voix pour, 2 voix contre, 18 abstentions. La nouvelle version  du paragraphe 60 est adoptée,
123.3 Le délégué de la Suisse a la parole.
124. M. HUMMEL (Suisse). - .  Monsieur le Président, lors d'une séance antérieure, j'avais proposé la suppression de toute  référence aux résultats de la Conférence sur la sécurité et la coopération en Europe, Cette confé-
3 rence n'ayant pas jüsqu'à préseat donné de résultats, j'avais déclaré qu'il était absolument impos-  sible d'adopter un texte contenant une telle référence. J'ai donc voté contre le texte qui vient  d'être adopté, Merci.
125,1 Le PRESIDENT. -  Pour les paragraphes 61 et 62, 1l n'y a pas de changement.
125.2 En l'absence d'objections, je considère ces paragraphes comme adoptés.
125.3 Pour les paragraphes 63 et 64, il y a de nouveaux textes.
125.4 En l'absence d'objections, je considère ces textes comme adoptés, tels qu'ils figurent dans
125.5 Pour les paragraphes 65 et 66, il n'y a pas de changement,
125.6 En l'absence d'objections, je considère ces paragraphes comme adoptés.
125.7 Pour les paragraphes 67 et 68 11 y a de nouveaux textes.
125.8 En l'absence d'objections, je considère ces textes comme adoptés, tels qu'ils figurent dans
125.9 Etes-vous prêts à adopter le nouveau texte du paragraphe 69 ?
125.10 Je donne la parole au représentant du Pérou.
126. El Sr. CHIAPPO (Perd):  Señor Presidente, que se vote, por favor, sobre el pârrafo 69,  {126.) Mr. CHIAPPO (Peru) {Translation from the Spanish):  Mr. President, I should be glad if a vote were taken on paragraph 69.
127.1 Le PRESIDENT. -  Je remercie le représentant du Pérou. Nous allons donc voter sur le paragraphe 69, tel qu'il  figure dans l'Addendum.
127,2 Voici le résultat du vote : 54 voix pour, une voix contre, une abstention, Le paragraphe 69  est adopté.
127.3 Je donne la parole au représentant du Pérou.
(128.1) Mr. CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  May I explain my vote, Mr. President? 1 realize that we all want to get some sleep, but there are  times when we have to stay awake. The original text of document 18 C/119 contained a paragraph refer-  ring specifically to UNDP. Peru voted against this paragraph because certain specific points which should  be stressed are not included in it.
(126,2) An example fs the last sentence, concerning the use of experts belonging to a beneftéi&ry country,  which Is at present prohibited under the projects financed by UNDP. This would, in many cases, be a  * means of meeting the requirements of endogenous development.  rd
(128.3) It seems to me that this {dea 1s not included. We sald at the time that it should be included, for  this would be one of the means whereby the developing countries - which, in addition to being robbed of  their raw materials, are vobbed of their brain power, of their tralned personnel, wko leave them to work  In the developed countries - could receive services instead of spending money and effort on training  qualified personnel, simply for the good of much wealthier countries. This Is why we voted against this  paragraph. Thank you.  Id
129.1 Le PRESIDENT. - 31  Je remercie le représentant du Pérou,
129.2 Les paragraphes 70 et 71 n'ont pas été modifiés par le Comité de rédaction,
129.3 En l'absence d'objections, je considère ces paragraphes comme adoptés.
129,4 Il nous reste maintenant à voter sur l'ensemble du document.  (Le vote a lieu à main levée)
129.5 Voici le résultat du vote : 57 voix pour, 2 voix contre, 5 abstentions, Le rapport du Co-  mité de rédaction est donc adopté dans son ensemble,
129,6 Y a-t-il des explications de vote ? Le représentant des Etats-Unis a la parole,
130.1 Mr. WARVARIV (United States of America):  Thank you, Mr. President.
130.2 Mr. President, it was with deep regret that I was compelled to vote against this document  as a whole, primarily because of the very regrettable amendment introduced by Peru to para-  graph 26, the reasons for my opposition to which I explained in my previous intervention, Thank  you, Sir,
131. Le PRESIDENT. -  Je vous remercie. Je donne la parole au représentant de la Guinée,
132, M, CAMARA (Guinée), -  Monsieur le Président, la délégation guinéenne n'ignore pas le gros éffort qu'a fait l'Unesco  pour le développement de l'éducation, de la science et de la culture, notamment dans les pays du  Tiers Monde dont la Guinée fait partie. Mais il y a dans le docurnent, sur lequel la Conférence  générale vient de voter, une partie politique que nous ne pouvons pas accepter. C'est pourquoi  nous nous sommes abstenus, Merci, Monsieur le Président.
133, Le PRESIDENT. -  Je remercie le représentant de la Guinée. Le représentant de la Chine a la parole,
134, M, YEH CHENG-PA (Chine) (Déclaration faite en chinois. Version française établie d'après  l'interprétation). -  Monsieur le Président, la délégation chinoise s'est prononcée contre le projet de résolution  dans son ensemble, essentiellement parce qu'une superpuissance a fait en sorte que ce texte com-  porte des éléments regrettables ; nous avons déjà exprimé notre position au cours du vote séparé  sur les paragraphes en cause, Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
135. Le PRESIDENT. -  Je remercie le représentant de la Chine et je donne la parole au représentant des Pays-Bas.
136. M, DE GORTER (Pays-Bas). -  Merci, Monsieur le Président. A notre très vif regret, et même avuc une certaine amerfume,  nous nous sommes abstenus lors du vote final sur le document 18 C/119. Au cours des travaux du  Comité de rédaction, nous étions parvenus à un accord sur un certain nombre de points ayant traît  aux principes fondamentaux de notre Organisation, qui se dégageaient clairement du débat de poli-  tique générale. Or, le texte que nous venons d'adopter présente, du fait d'un amendement soumis,  une contradiction absolument invraisemblable entre, d'une part l'affirmation que "le développement  de la coopération entre Etats ayant des systèmes sociaux différents tend à créer des conditions fa-  vorables aux activités de l'Unesco" et d'autre part, le rappel des contradictions fondamentales de  caractère économique et politique qui existeralent - paraît-il - entre les pays, C'est en raison de  cette contradiction, qui rompt l'équilibre du document, que la délégation des Pays-Bas a cru de-  voir s'abstenir, Merci, Monsieur le Président,
137, Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie le représentant des Pays-Bas et je donne la parole au représentant du Pérou,
(138.1) Mr. CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish): .  Mr. Presideht, | am very grateful to you for giving me an opportunity to explain my delegation's vote.  Peru voted for the document an a whole because we belleve that we should act In conforming with demo-  cratic principles.
(138.2) Many countries boast that they are democracies and free democracies, but when the ime comes  to put their principles into practice they want to impose their superior power and their views, using the  welght of their military and economic power to convince us that the document {s not acceptable.
(138.3) Mr. President, you have given us the opportunity, in a highly democratic spirit, of voting para-  graph by paragraph; we have voted in favour of some paragraphs and against others, Peru has sometimes  voted against certain paragraphs, but thése paragraphs were approved by the majority, The fine] vote  binds us to respect the will of the majority, Mr. President. We may disajiree with certain paragraphs;  you have given us the opportunity of voting and we have rejected them, but when voting on the documént as  a whole we have supported it, for we respect and accept the will of the majority of the countries assembled  here, although disagreeing with some paragraphs. Mr. President, this is putting democracy into practice  and not merely preaching it. Thank you, Mr. President.
139,1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Il me reste A remercier Madame la Présidente et les membres du Comité de rédaétion pour  le travail considérable qu'ils ont accompli. -
139.2 La séance est levée,  The meeting rose at 11.40 p.m.  La séance est levée à 23 h, 40  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 23, 40
3aceaanHe sakpupaetcf p 23 4.40 MHH.  Md 3150 ponpls 3, 30 LI BIN aed) cans,