Seventeenth plenary meeting
26 October 1974, at 10,20 a.m,  President: Mrs, Jébord (Hungary)  Dix-septième séance plénière  z8 octobre 1974, à 10 h.20  Présidente: Mme Jéborû (Hongrie)  Decimoséptima sesiôn plenaria  “ 26 de octubre de'1974, a las 10.20  Presidenta: Sra. Jéborû (Hungrfa)  CemHauaToe IJIEHApHOE 3ace/raHHe
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to take up item 56 of the agenda, "Election of mem-  bers of the Executive Board", for which we have the following documents: 18 C/113 Part II,
18 C/NOM/10, 18 C/NOM/10 Add. and Corr. and 18 C/NOM/11.
1.2 I give the floor to the Chairman of the Nominations Committee, Mr, Dfez Hochleitner, to  present Part IT of the report of the Nominations Committee.
(2.1) Mr. DIEZ-HOCHLEITNER (Spain) (Chafrman of the Nominations Committee) (Translation from the  Spanish):  Madam President, ladies and gentlemen: I have to inform you that the Nominations Committee held its  second working meeting on 23 October in order to establish the final list of candidates submitted by Mem-  ber States for the twenty vacant seats on the Executive Board.
(2.2) Firat of all, however, and having regard to the fact that since approval of resolution 12,2 by the  General Conference at its seventeenth session, Gambia, Portugal, the German Democratic Republic and  the Democratic People's Republic of Korea have become Member States of Unesco, the Nominations Com-  mittee«decided to propose that the General Conference approve the distribution of the aforesald States  among the electoral groups established by that resolution,
(2,3) The draft resolution, Madam President, reads as followa:  "The General Conference,  Considering that since the adoption, at its seventeenth session, of resolution 12.2 distributing among  electoral groups the States having become Members of Unesco since the establishment at the fifteenth  session of groupings of Member States for the purpose of elections to the Executive Board, the States  whose names are given below have become Members of Unesco:  Gambia  German Democratic Republic  Portugal  Democratic People's Republic of Korea,  Coneidering that these Member States should therefore be distributed among the electoral groups es-  tablisited by the said resolution,  Jiecides  (a) to add to Group I the following Member State: Portugal  (b) to add to Group II the following Member State: German Democratic Republic  (c} to add to Group IV the following Member State: Democratic People's Republic of Korea  {d} to add to Group V the following Member State: Gambia,"
(2.4) Madam President: since the German Democratic Republic, which is mentioned in the draft resolu-  tion I have just read, has submitted a candidate for one of the Executive Board seats, this resolution should  be approved before a vote i8 taken on the candidatures as a whole, the Nominations Committee having in-  cluded the candidate I have referred to in one of the groups, subject to the General Conference deciston.
(2.5) I should be glad, Madam President, if you would submit thie draft resolution to the General  Conference.
3.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank Mr, Dfez Hochleltner for his presentation of Part Il of the report of the Nominations  Committee.
3.2 Now we shall proceed to vote on the draft resolution submitted to the General Conference by  the Nominations Committee, the text of which appears at the bottom of the first page of document
18 C/113, which has been presented to us by the Chairman of the Nominations Committee,  (The vote was taken by show of hands)
3.3 The resolution ie adopted unanimously,
3.4 Now I request the Chairman of the Nominations Committee to continue with the presentation  of hig report,
(4.1) Mr, Di BZ-HOCHLEITNER (Spain) (Chairman of the Nominations Committee) (Translation from the  Spanish}: ;  The Nominations Committee, after noting the letter from the head of the delegation of the Republic of  Haiti concerning the withdrawal of the candidature of Dr, René Piquion, and following a considerable num-  ber of statements in warm suppô: t of many candidates, has established the list of candidatures in strict  alphabetical order, according to the various electoral groups, so that the General Conference may proceed  with the election of the Executive Board members at this meeting.
(4.2) The final list is as follows:  Group I {members to be elected during this session: 6): Prince Jean de Broglie (France); Mr.Gunnar  Garbo (Norway); Mr. Leonard C.J. Martin (United Kingdom); Professor Hugh Whitelaw Stuart Philp  (Australia); Mr, Gordon H. Scherer (United States of America); H.E. Mr. Michel J,M,M, Gh, Van  Ussel (Belgium).  Group II (members to be elected during this session: 2): H. E, Mr, Lconid Nikolaevich Kutalov  (USSR); Professor Dr, Rita Schober (German Democratic Republic).  Group III (members to be elected during this session: 3): Ambassador Paulo E. de Barrêdo Carneiro  (Brazil); Dr. Professor Juan Marinello y Vidaurreta (Cuba); H.E. Dr, Jullo C, Quintana Villanueva  (Nicaragua).  Group IV (members to be elected during this session: 4): The Hon, Mra, Estefatifa Aldaba-Lim  (Philippines); Mr, Keltaro Hironaga (Japan); H.E, Mr. Majid Rahnema (Iran); Mr, Trailokya Nath  Upralty (Nepal).  Group V_ (members to be elected during this session: 6): Mr. Arthur Musisi Katerega Bagunywa  Uganda); Thé Hon. Louis Régis Chaperon (Mauritius); Mr. Marcel Ibinga Magwangu (Gabon); Pro-  fessor Joseph Ki-Zerbo (Upper Volta); Mr. Mahmoud Messadi (Tunisia); Mr, Abdou Moumount  Dioffo (Niger); H.E. Dr. Hassan Muraywld (Syrian Arab Republic); Mr, Ahmed Ould Sidi Baba  (Mauritania).
(4.3) Lastly, Madam President, I should inform you that I have today received two official communications  from representatives of the Member States concerned, withdrawing the candidatures of Mr. Louis Régis  Chaperon (Mauritius) and Mr, Abdou Moumouni Dioffo (Niger); I am informing the General Conference of  this before it proceeds to elect the new members of the Executive Board, Thenk you,
5. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of the Nominations Committee and before explaining the procedure for  the secret ballot, I give the floor to the Secretary of t! e General Conference for an announcement.
6, The SECRETARY: ; Co  Thank you, Madam President, Madam President, the two officiyl letters withdrawing two  candidates were received very late this morning, when the ballot pap-rs were already printed,  Therefore, in the ballot paper for Group V, those two names have been crossed out by hand. Dele-  gates do not have to delete the two names; they are already crossed out in the ballot papers you  are going to receive, Thank you, Madam President,
7.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Secretary of the Conference.
7,2 Ladies and gentlemen, the General Conference must now proceed to elect twenty members of  the Executive Board by secret ballot, The Secretariat will distribute to each delegation one en-  velope and five ballot papers, corresponding respectively to the five electoral Groups. In order
17 tô avoid any possible confusion, the five ballot papers are of different colours, Each ballot paper  has the number of one Group and Indicates the number of places to be filled in that Group, as well  as the names of the candidates nominated for the electoral Group concerned, Voters must cross  out the names of the candidates for whom they do not wish to vote, Only the remaining names will  be counted,
7.3 As is indicated on the ballot papers, the number of places to be filled is 6 for Group I, 2 for  Group H, 2 for Group IH, 4 for Group IV and 6 for Group V.
7.4 Any ballot paper on which there are more names than the number of places to be filled will be  considered invalid. Ballot papers on which fewer names are indicated than the number of places  to be filled are valid. A ballot paper on which all names have been crossed out will be treated as  indicating an abstention,
7.5 Any ballot paper carrying a signature or signs of any sort will be considered fnvalid,
7.6 The ballot will be carried out by roll-call vote. Each voter will be invited to deposit his en-  velope in the ballot box placed on the table located in front of me,
7.7 After the ballot, I will apply Rule 10 bis of the Rules for the conduct of elections by secret  ballot, in order to enable us to resume the general policy debate in the plenary while the counting  of the votes takes place in Room V under the supervision of H, E, Dr, Halim Saïd Abu-Izzeddin,  head of the delegation of Lebanon and Vice-President of the General Conference.
7.8 The tellers will make sure that the number of envelopes contained in the ballot box corres-  ponds to the number of delegations which have voted, They will then open the envelopes and classify  the ballot papers by electoral Groups, They will then count for each Group the number of votes  obtained by the candidates, Upon completion of the counting of votes I shall declare elected the  candidates having obtained the required majority in conformity with the provisions of paragraph (b)  of Rule 16 of the Rules for the conduct of elections by secret ballot, I hope that the procedure is  now clear to all of you. If nobody wishes to speak, we shall proceed as I have just indicated,
7.9 1 must appoint four tellers, I request Mrs, Barry de ! nngctamp from Australia, Mr, Arto  Kurittu from Finland, Mr, Tarum Ray from India and Mr. Kodjo Schneider from Togo kindly to  agree to act as tellers, and I Invite them to take seats by the ballot box,  (The four tellers took their places bealde the ballot box)
7.10 Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to vote. The Secretary will call delegations  one after the other according to the French alphabetical order of the names of Member States,  beginning with Yemen, Each delegation is invited to ctme and deposit his envelope in the ballot  box.  (The vote was taken by roll-call)
7.11 I now invite Dr. Halim Safd Abu-Izzeddin, Vice-President of the General Conference, and  the four tellers, Mrs, Barry de Longchamp, Mr, Arto Kurittu, Mr, Tarum Ray and Mr. Kodjo  Schneider to go to Room V in order to count the votes, Mr, Vice-President, I hand you the key of  the ballot box,  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE (continued) / DEBAT DE POLITIQUE GENERALE {sulte) /  DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL (continuaétén)/ OBCYXHIEHHE BONPOCOB OBIE  MONHNTHKH (npoaonxenne)/( eb ) Ba ltl au luSl 255 Le
8,1 The PRESIDENT:  While the counting of the votes takes place in Room V, we shall resume the general policy  debate here,
8.2 Before resuming the debate, I would like to thank Mr, Owono Nguema, from Gabon, who was  kind enough to preside over the general policy debate fast night, and on behalf of the Chafrman of  the Executive Board, I would like to thank Mr, 1lmo Hela, who was kind enough to represent the  Chairman of the Execut{ve Board last night.
8.3 I now give the floor to the first speaker, H.E, Professor S. Nurul Hasan, head of the delega-  tion of India.
9.1 Mr, NUP JL HASAN (India):  Madam President and distinguished delegates, I would like at the outaet to offer you, Madam,  on behalf of my country and my delegation, our warm congratulations on your election ae President  of the General Conference, It is a matter of gratification to us all that oùr deliberations ave to be  guided by such an eminent scholar and intellectual of repute, and I need hardly say how delighted
1 am to be apeaking on this oscasion under your chairmanship, You represent a country with varied
434   cultural traditions which are part of the heritage of mankind. We in India are particularly grateful 17  to your country and your people, with whom we have close historical links, for having always ex-  tended to us thelr warm friendship, And may I add our special pleasure that the Conference should  be presided over by a distinguished lady who {8 eminently fitted to guide this Organization in the  coming International Women's Year?
9.2 Madam President, we are now in what may be called the last wee! s of the Maheu era, for it  can be sald with justification that the present shape, structure and philosophy of Unesco bear the  powerful imprint of the personality of the retiring Director-General, It is, therefore, right that  we should pay tribute to Mr, Maheu for his dedicated and distinguished service to our Organization,  He has held office at a time of fateful challenge during which the spirit of man has been sorely tried.  Mr, Maheu was able to cope with this crisis because he recognized the need for new approaches and  fresh directions, The initiative and innovation which he was never afraid to manifest enabled him  to deal with those problems in a manner which has resulted in enduring gain to the world community.  A philosopher by training and outlook, Mr, Maheu has consistently reiterated the need to recognize  Man as both the means and the end of development, We in India shall always remember his warm  sympathy and his understanding of our own domestic problems,
9.3 Madam President, it augurs well for the Organization that Mr, Maheu's successor, whom, I  am sure, we shall all elect unanimously, combines exceptional qualities as a far-seeing adminis-  trator with a world perspective. It is appropriate that Unesco should, at this time, have at ite head  a humanist known for his conciliatory and constructive approach to all problems, an outstanding  educationist who is the symbol of the hopes and aspirations not only of resurgent Africa, but of the  developing world as a whole,
9,4 The Director-General, in his Introduction to the Report for 1973, has drawn our attention to  what we cannot afford to ignore, that the interests of all peoples and countries can only be safe-  guarded and promoted if we establish a new order based on justice and equality, The maintenance  of peace is obviously the primary concern of us all; but peace can only be stabilized ff the human  condition is improved and the dignity and worth of the human person is ensured,
9.5 Madam President, such human dignity will always be in peril so long as racfalism and colo-  nlal{sm continue to exist in diverse parts of the world. We in India have always laid emphasis on  the urgent necessity of eliminating raclalism and colonialism in all forms, and indeed take pride  in the fact that we have throughout been in the forefront of this battle. It is, therefore, a matter  of particular pleasure to us to welcome Guinea Bissau into the community of nations and Namibia  as an Associate Member, But the struggle against racialism is by no means over. The oppres-  sive régimes in South Africa and Rhodesia are still obsessed by it, and even outside those countries  it frequently ralses its ugly head, It 1s tarnishing and poisoning social relations, even in the field  of sport. We belleve, Madam President, that if this struggle against racfaliam {s to be successful,  it must be waged in its totality,
9.6 Colonialism also is still entrenched In some parts of the world; indeed new manifestations of  it keep on appearing. But the picture 8 not wholly dark, We noted with appreciation, Madam  President, the contribution to this debate of the distinguished leader of the Portuguese delegation,  who informed us that the new democratic government of Portugal is renouncing its colonial heritage,  At last, after many years, we have been privileged to hear the authentic voice of the people of  Portugal, We warmly welcome the People's Democratic Republic of Korea and the Republic of San  Marino to this Organization and look forward to fruitful collaboration with them in Unesco, We are  happy that the Palestine Liberation Organization has found a place in Unesco and truat that this  Organization will render all possible assistance to the uprooted millions of Palestinians in the field  of its competence, . It 1s a matter of gratification for us that African liberation movements recog-  nized by the Organization of African Unity will now be agsoclated with the activities of Unesco,
9.7 Madam President, we are faced today with a crisis which ia engulfing the major part of the  developed world and which fs simultaneously creating a serious situation for the people of the  developing countries. The rapid development of scfence and technology has opened before mankind  a fascinating vista of the possibilities of progress. However, in spite of the tremendous advances  in our knowledge of natural processes and our ability to control and harness the forces of nature  and put them to use, there remain vast areas in which people suffer from ignorance, poverty and  hunger, Large sections of mankind are prevented from progressing in accordance with their as-  pirations, and a difficult situation created by retarded development under colonia) rule ia becoming  even more acute, The disparity between the developing and the developed countries ia growing.  The natural resources of the world are being exploited by a handful of countries for their own bene-  fit, and the result is a consumer society where there {8 conspicuous waste of these scarce resources,  A world system hae been created which involves the acquisition of raw material at prices which  prevent the mass of humanity, including people living in the areas producing such material, from  reaping the benefits of concrete advancement, Exploitation of human labour which extracts these  raw materials or processes them continues. This {niquitous high consumption in the developed  part of the world has involved the peoples of the developing countries In a sfluation of crisis where  not only 1s further development endangered but even the existing low standards of living are insecure,  One consequence of this economis crisla 1a tha! the educational system is threatened with shortage  of finance, Grants to universities, allocations for scientific research and for the advancement of  knowledge and culture are not easily forthcoming, Speclaîlata of science and technology have been
17 forced to take up employment which does not involve the utilization of their skills. Books are get-  ting out of the reach of the common man, The institutions of culture are ficed with serious  difficulties,
9,8 All these glaring disparities musi be reduced and removed, asteful consumption must be  curbed so that the world's resources can be shared more equitably. Such sharing is, in fact, in  the interests of all, for the interdependence of the world community has become more and more  pronounced, Acute distress in parts of the globe also causes social political tensions which ad-  versely affect the other parts, Unesco must raise its voice powerfully in this matter and mould  opinfon so that practical action towards better distribution is taken by Member governments,  Unesco must act to foster fundamental concepts and thinking which will enable the disparities to be  reduced and which will help to usher in a new world économie order,
9.9 Madam President, I come now to the pivotal rôle of development, We in the developing coun-  tries cannot afford to be pessimists, Whatever the difficulties, we have to strive, essentially by  our own efforts but with international co-operation, to create conditions, both material and cultural,  to enable people to lead the good life. A wide-ranging attack 1s necessary on the problems of devel-  opment, Without development, equality and social progress cannot be achieved, In this connexion,  within the framework of a balanced and coinprehensive approach, more attention needs to be given  to the concepts of applying science and technology to basic development. Food, water, energy  health, over-population and housing are among the main problems affecting the lives of the vast  majority of the people and should be dealt with vigorously.
9.10 Madam President, there is also a growing need to review the principles and practices of  international aid in the United Nations system. In this context, the perceptive remarks of the  Director-General in his Introduction to the Annual Report provide the proper guidelines, I would  particularly like to refer to the question of the transfer of technology. It is evident that the atti-  tudes of donors and recipieats alike have to change if the system of iuternat{onal transfer of tech-  rology is to have really beneficial effects, Very often thé mechanism and agency of such transfers  functions in such a manner as to increase the dependence of developing countries on the donors, In  fact, the transfer of technology should be designed to assist the building-up of infrastructures and  capabilit!es In the developing countries so that they can develop by themselves, International pro-  grammes 11 science and technology should have a long-range perapective with the objéct of creating  a self-genet ating scientific’and technological tradition in the developing countries, for they obvious-  ly have to depend primarily on their own skills and resources to build themselves up. The frame-  work for such transfers should be such as to enable the developing countries to choose for  themselves the technologies, and the mix of technologies, which they may wish to receive as well  ag the appropriate technologies which are of particular importance to developing countries along-  side the most modern and sophisticated technologies which could be applied to the tasks of develop-  ment. The choice of the technologies also should be based on the individual circumstances of the  country; it cannot simply be adopted from a different environment but should be based on the social  and cultural conditions in the country concerned. In the recent past, there have been signs of hope  that we are moving towards a greater appreciation of International co-operation in this respect and  Unesco can obviously help in creating the climate for such progress as well as in giving positive  assistance to Member States, It is advisable, however, to devise and develop as many concrete  schemes of action and projects as possible so as to concentrate the activities of the Organization,  and to make visible impacts in specific fields.
9,11 I would how lke to turn to the problem of regional co-operation, Its importance In the vari-  ous fields of Unesco's competence in the present-day world cannot be over-emphasized. The Indian  delegation had welcomed the shift in the emphasis of Unesco policies from mutual understanding of  East and West to regional studies, We are happy to find that Unesco plans to proceed further with  its several projects In the Aslan region, such as the study of Malay culture, Oceanic culture and  East Asfan civilization. But I should like to submit that the concept of regional studies should not  be understood only in terms of geographical divisions, but In terms of the themes and the specific  problems which these studies involve, It would thén logically follow that some countries which may  not fall {nto the geographical region and would, therefore, not be included in a specific regional  problem, would nevertheless be included, I would particularly like to draw the attention of this  assembly to the fact that there has been an active dialogue amongst Asian countries for many cen-  turles and that this dialogue has made the Asfan civilization into a composite fabric of diverse hues  and strands transcending regional considerations,
9,12 One of the essential elements in the educational programmes of Unesco Îa the increasing em-  phasis which is being placed, in the context of the needs of developing countries, on "non-formal"  education, We would like to express our appreciation of the comprehensive Report submitted by  the Intérnational Commission on the Development of Education, which was appointed by the Director-  Genéral under the distinguished Chairmanship of Mr. Edgar Faure, and of the measures initiated  by Unesco and Member States to glve effect to the recommendations contained in this Report, India,  in particular, hae gained experience on a large scale In varfous areas of out-of-school and adult  education, The Gandhian Movement for basfe education still rélains {ts validity for us; and since  independence we have also developed community education. More recently, experience in this  field in Indià has shown that significant results can be achieved through non-formal education,
8.13 In this context, we warmly welcome the initiatives taken by Unesco In purauanée of the deci-  sions taken at the seventeenth season of the General Conference to set up an Aslan Centre of
436   Educational Innovation for Development as an integral part of Unesco's Regional Office for Educa-  tion in Asla at Bangkok. This programme aims at stimulating and encouraging educational inno-  vations which are linked with educational problems in the Asfan region, I am glad to say that as  evidence of our desire to co-operate fully with Unesco in this programme, our Government has  constituted a National Development Group for Educational Innovation in India. We would, however,  like a much larger provision for the Asian Centre for Educational Innovation for Development in  the 1975-1976 budget of Unesco, 80 as to enable it to move more effectively towards achieving its  objectives,
9,14 Madam President, I would like to draw the attention of the General Conference to the sharpen-  ing contradiction between the concept and practice of the right to freedom of information and the  expression "regardless of frontiers", Thus, in the field of communication, we find that the flow  of information is largely a one-way traffic from advanced countries to developing nations, The  entire exchange of news is dominated by the major international news agencies belonging to the  developed nations. These agencles function in auch a manner that little information of significance  about the progress of the developing countries finds a place in the world news service. A complete-  ly distorted profile of these countries is presented. It {ge of paramount importance therefore to set  up regional news agencies and to extend support to the infrastructure of national news agencies.  Another factor standing in the way of the flow of news is the high rate of cable tariffs, which makes  it difficult for correspondents of developing countries to file adequate reports,
9,15 But the most immediate problem being faced by the developing world today is the shortage  and high price of newsprint. As we are all no doubt aware, disproportionately large quantities of  newsprint are consumed by newspapers in the developed countries, Also, because of their larger  resources, newspapers in developed countries are able to enter into long-term contracts with pro-  ducers, putting developing countries at a great disadvantage, It {8 necessary, therefore, that  Unesco should {ake the initiative, in co-operation with other United Nations agencies, to cope with  this situation. As an interim measure, large newspapers in developed countries could consider a  voluntary cut to help release supplies to developing countries, Other steps could also be consider-  ed, including help in providing an Infrastructure for the growth of the newspaper industry in devel-  oping countries, A similar crisis is at hand In the matter of paper for textbooks and periodicals.  It is impossible to keep up with the pressing needs of education without increasing the availability  of paper in the developing countries, Here also action, as suggested above for newsprint, must be  urgently taken,
9.16 Madam President, we in India attach great significance to the work of Unesco. We believe  that while Unesco haa achieved a great deal, it has a tremendous potential, as yet unexplored, to  promote international understanding and goodwill, to strengthen collaboration and co-operation  among Member States in education, science, culture and communication, and above all to assist in  ushering in, at the earliest possible moment, a new world order based on freedom, justice and  equality, Unesco can also assist in a substantial way, in collaboration with other agencies of the  United Nations system, in the establishment of the new economic order which we all seek, It is  for these reasons that we in India have always taken keen interest in Unesco and have appreciated  its work in promoting the concept of a unified world.
9.17 Madam President and fellow delegates, may I conclude by expressing the hope that the delib-  erations of this distinguished assembly will help to strengthen the bonds of co-operation between  the Member States of Unesco. We trust that Unesco, inspired by its moral and ethical rôle and  assisted by human endeavour in all fields of action, will continue to play a major rôle in the further-  ance of peace and human rights and in the process of development, in which alone les hope for the  future of mankind, Thank you, Madam President,
10. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of India and I give the floor to H.E, Mr. Kim Sok Ki, head of  the delegation of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea,
11,1 Mr, KIM SOK KI (Democratic People's Republic of Korea) (Speech delivered in Korean;  English translation provided by the delegation of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea}:  Madam President, fellow delegates, may 1 first of all take this opportunity to express my heart-  felt congratulations to you, Madam, on your election to the high office of President of this elghteenth  session of the General Conference of Unesco, and to wish you every success in the diecharge of  your dutles,
11.3 1 would alan like to express my warmest pleasure at the admission of Namibia to Associate  Membership of this Organization, as well as at the participation of the Palestine Liberation Organt-  zation, and the African liberation movements, in the work of Unesco, Thoir participation In the  work of Unesco fully accords with the principle of universality of Unesco, Furthermore, it re-  presents a victory of the anti-impertallet liberation forcea in their fight foi a just cause and will  immensely inspire them In their national liberation struggle. The Government of the Democratic  People's Republic of Korea, proceeding from its peace-loving foreign policy, has given full support  to the liberation movements of the African peoples and to the Palestine people who remain under  the colonial yoke, and 1 can assure them of our sincère support in the future too. For the delega-  tion of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, as a Member of Unesco, it {8 a great pleasure  to be able to exchange views and experience with the delegates of freindly countries in the fields of  education, science and culture, thus promoting mutual co-operation,
17 11,3 To develop education, science and culture is of great significance in safeguarding men's in-  dependence and dignity and in bringing about social progress and welfare. Because a nation's  Independent development and prosperity is directly related to such progress, the Government of  the Republic has always shown deep concern for the development of education, science and culture  as an objective of major importance, It has thoroughly established the principle of Juche in the  building of culture and fs now developing education, science and culture in conformity with the  interests of our people and the requirements of our revolution.
11.4 The respected and beloved leader of our people, Comrade President Kim Il Sung, our head  of State, has sald: '"... The Government of the Republic will continue to persistently strive to  speed up the development of the country's science and technology and to build the socialist culture,  firmly relying on the ideas of the Workers' Party of Korea",
11.5 The policy of the Republic Government on developing education, science and culture is based  on the principle of the philosophical theory of Juche, that man fs the mast... of all things and de-  cides everything. Only by developing education, science and culture on this Juche principle can we  lead the people to rely on their own brains and strength and to solve all the problems arising from  revolution and construction by themselves, with the consciousness of being masters of their country.  This is, we believe, the best way for us to speed up the progress of education, science and culture  and honestly to serve justice, progress and well-being.
11,6 The Government of the Republic regards education as an important field for training people  to become social beings of ample knowledge, high virtue and sound body, And it holds fast to the  policy of giving priority to the education of the younger generations and the training of national  cadres, The State has opened a broad avenue of learning to all the children and the working masses,  and provides ample opportunity for their education on its own responsibility. In the State budget,  the largest proportion is taken up by educational expenditure, which increases from year to year.
11.7 Our country has abolished the educational tax system once and for all; consequently, the  people are freed from the burden of tuition fees and have the benefit of universal, compulsory free  education. Recently we introduced a new, compulsory eleven-year education course which provides  compulsory education for ten years of school, plus one-year pre-school training.
11,8 We have thoroughly embodied the principles of socialist pedagogy in our education and we train  our youth and children to acquire a revolutionary world outlook and a thoroughgoing knowledge of  sclence and technology. There have been considerable strides forward in higher education follow-  ing the Government's policy of training Independent national cadres as they become needed for the  building of a new society.
11.9 In the northern half of the Republic we did not have a single college before liberation, but to-  day we have more than 140 universities and colleges and over 600 technical high-schools. Though  we had only a few scores of technicians and experts before liberation, we now have a great army  of more than 600, 000 such experts, whose number will increase to over one million in the near  future,
11,10 The Government of the Republic attaches great Importance to the development of gefence in  the country. Our scientists and techniclans are now making every effort to solve the scientific and  technical problems involved in strengthening and developing an independent national economy and in  carrying out our task of achieving the three-major technical revolution. This "three-major' tech-  nical revolution fe promoted by the Government as a movement at the higher level for the post-  {ndustrialization period, and a further revolutionary task aims at emancipating from the hardest  labours the working masses who have been freed from exploitation and oppression,
11.11 Now in our country the scientific and technical problems arising in the course of reducing  the distinction between heavy and light latour, and between agricultural and industrial work, as  well as in liberating women from a heavy burden of household drudgery, are all being creditably  solved one after the other by the creative efforts of the scientists and technicians,
11.12 In the Republic, great progress has been made in the bullding of a national socialist culture.  For thé sound development of a national culture it fe essential to fight againet the encroachments of  cultural imperialism and the tendency towards the restoration of imperfaliem, The Government is  making an active effort to develop culture and the arts and to build them up {nto socialist culture  and arte, national in form but popular and revolutionary, to serve thé masses of the people, Writ.  ers and artists are provided with all the conditions necessary for their creative work, and broad  masses of people are taking an active part In the furtherance of literature and the arts, Tha popu-  lar masses have become the creators of the arts; they are now the owners of those benefits, Thanks  to that policy we have created in a short period a number of revolutionary opéras ineluding tome  immortal classics, such as “ihe Sea of Blood" and "The Flower Girl", and every year we produce  a great many filme which enjoy great popularity among the people because of their high ideological  content and artistic value,
11,13 The Government of the Republic fe also striving to value and preserve the fine national cul-  tural heritage, critically restoring and developing it. These policies and achievements in reipect  of thé development of education, science and culture are, I consider, fully in accord with the objec-  tives and ideals of Unesco.
11,14 Exchange and co-operation among the nations {gs a major ideal advanced by Unesco. And the 17  desire of the progressive people of the world for the promotion of friendship and co-operation is  all the more evident. Our country will never fail to take an active part in all Unesco activities,  thereby safeguarding the independence of our people and of man in general, promoting solidarity  and co-operation with friendly countries and furthering the sacred work of bringing about the  progress of mankind and world peace,
11.15 Madam President and fellow delegates, permit me to recall that the South Korean delegate  referred to dialogue and cultural exchange between the North and the South in his speech a few days  ago. In view of this reference, I am compelled to make clear the truth of the North-South dialogue  and the atatus of cultural exchange,
11,16 As you may well know, the North-South Joint Statement was made public two years ago and  there have been dialogues between the North and the South !n full accordance with the three-point  principles of Independeat, peaceful reunification and overall national unity, which Comrade Presi-  dent Kim It Sung had advanced, This, in fact, threw liglit on the prospect of thé country's reunifi-  cation which is the desire of our people, The North-South Joint Statement was welcomed by  progressive people all over the world, who have deep sympathy with the cause of reunification of  our country and who observed the dialogues between the North and the South with great interest.
11.17 The South Korean authoritles, however, clamouring for what is described as "competition  accompanied with dialogue" and "confrontation accompanied with dialogue", created an artificial  obstacle which would have resulted in the permanent division of the country, There was even a  so-called "special statement" issued in June 1973, proclaiming a "two Koreas plot", AN this will  show who wants the country's reunification and who aims at the permanent division of the country.
11.18 Dialogue, if there is a dialogue, should only be aimed at reunification, But the South Korean  authorities, since they are scared by the atmosphere of peaceful reunification which fs beginning to  gain hold among the South Korean people, intensified their system of fascist dictatorship and now  ruthlessly suppress all those who claim that the country should be reunited, They apply to them  so-called "emergency measures’ and various other evil laws; the patriotic youth and students,  conscientious politicans, public figures and men of the press and even the priests who pray for  peaceful reunification are without exception subject to oppression,
11,19 All these facts are clearly stated in the report of inspection published by the Amnesty Inter-  national Organization, This being the case, it is abaurd for the South Korean authorities to speak  in the absence of any North-South dialogue and cultural exchange. How can they do that while they  are violently dépriving the South Korean people of democratic rights and freedom of speech, and  manoeuvring to see to it that the country is divided for ever?
11.20 Speaking of North-South cultural exchange, the Government of the Republic has repeatedly  made fair and reasonable proposals in order to provide the prerequisite for the country's reunifi-  cation, to create an atmosphere of mutual trust between the North and the South and to achieve the  unified development of our national culture, Already fn July 1972, at the beginning of the North-  South dialogue following the publication of the North-South Joint Statement, we proposed details to  bring about an all-round cultural exchange between the North and the South, including co-operation  in the fields of policy, economics, military and diplomatic affaire.
11.21 Our proposals had to do with questions of joint development of natural resources under-  ground, opening of the North-South fishing grounds and free joint fishing, co-operation in irrigation  projects in South Korea, economic exchange, joint study of our mother-tongue and national history,  the exchange of theatrical performances, the joint production and exchange of films, the selection  of a single national team for international games, the exéhange of scholars and journalists, etc,  Our doors are always open to dialogue when it comes to the sacred cause of our country's reunifi-  cation,
11,22 We must no doubt wait for the South Korean authorities to become aware of the necessity of  independence, to break away from excessive reliance on forces outside the country, to give up their  machinations on behalf of à permanent division of our country, and to respond sincerely to the Nor'th-  South dialogue and all-round co-operation and exchanges in all fields. We are convinced that it fe  only when the South Korean authorities finally establish the dialogue that the national conscience of  our country will prevail for the solution of the domestic problems of the nétion by the nation itself,
11,23 This ts to be hoped, and this is the expectation of the delegation of the Republic, We trust  that Unesco and all those who are fighting for the dignity of man and for peace will have a better  understanding of our righteous position and of the efforts that we have displayed for our country's  reunification and for integrated programmes of our national culture. We count on their sympathy  and solidarity. I thank you, Madam President,
12. The PRESIDENT:  ! thank the delegate of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and 1 give the floor to the  Hon, Krishna Raj Aryal, head of the delegation of Nepal,
17 13.1 Mr, Krishna Raj ARYAL (Nepal)  Madam President, I am happy to reiterate from this rostrum Nepal's feelings of goodwill to-  wards all the Member States present here, Allow me to convey the good wishes of His Majesty the  King and the people of Nepal for the success of this Conference.
13,2 Madam President please accept my heartiest congratulations on your recent election to the  important office of President and ! should like, through you, Madam President to convey my sin-  cere congratulations to all other delegates who have been elected to various high offices of the  Conference,
13.3 I would also like to take this opportunity to express my sincere appreciation to the former  President, Mr, Haguiwara, for so ably and dutifully fulfilling the responsibilities entrusted to him  by the seventeenth session of the General Conference,
13,4 On behalf of the Nepalese delegation, Madam President, I wish to welcome very warmly the  Democratic People's Republic of Korea as well as all those countries who have joined Unesco very  recently,
13.5 Nepal hag always believed that Unesco Is one of the noblest institutions of man dedicated to  the cause of universal peace and international co-operation, Not very long ago, our beloved King,  His Majesty Birendra Bir Bikram Shah Dev, attended the Summit Conference of Non-aligned States  in Algiers, where matters close to the spirit of Unesco were the subject of friendly exchange,  World peace baged on peaceful coexistence, international co-operation and universal respect for  human rights, were, as we all know, the subjects of discussion there,
13.6 Madam President, I have noted with satisfaction that the Draft Programme and Budget for
1975-1976 18 a well-prepared document and on the whole presents a balanced programme, concen-  trated on the tasks essential to Unesco. Iam happy to state that my delegation {s in agreement  with the plans and programmes contained therein, The reason for this agreement le not far to seek.  The policy of my Government is to emphasize science, education, culture and communication so as  to correlate them with economic development of the country. My delegation would like to endorse  the spirit, tone and content of the document, and to take thin opportunity of complimenting all those  concerned with the preparation of it, and more especially the Director-General and his staff,
13.7 Madam President, I am very much aware of the fact that a detailed discussion on the various  items which have been incorporated in documents 18 C/4 and 18 C/5 fs not possible at this stage  because of the time factor. None the less, my delegation would like to submit a few observations  to the General Conference which I consider of importance,
13.8 The various activities proposed in documents 18 C/4 and 18 C/5 to further education, science,  culture and mass communication are distinctive means by whid Unesco seeks to create a climate  for peace, world understanding and progress, My delegation belleves that the programme and poli-  cles mentioned in the above documents can increase the quality of man's life by promoting world-  wide respect for justice, the rule of law, individual human rights and the fundamental freedoms  affirmed by the United Nations Charter.
13.9 Madam President, my delegation believes that countries, no matter whether they are devel-  oped or developing, have to pin thelr faith and hope on the progress of sclence and education for  the realization of a happy and prosperous future for their people, Unesco's Initiative over the yeare  to encourage Member States to shape their system of education has been satisfactory,
13.10 I would like now to say a few words about adult education, The problem posed by the mil-  lons of illiterate adulte is probably one of the greatest human problems the developing world has  to face today, Though my delegation fully shares the optimism of the Director-General that "the  elimination of this scourge before the close of this century {8 within the capacity of the resources  available to mankind", I must admit that this problem will continue to be a chronic one in many  developing countries if it has to be surmounted within their available resources alone, As regards  Nepal, the work done in this sphere through the Nepal Women's Organization, Go-to-the- Village  National Campaign, National Development Service and many other organizations is indeed commen-  dable, My delegation therefore would like to support the Director-Goneral in his effort to seek a  concentrated global action working through the regional and international institutions set up by  Unesco. The countries that have solved their own problems in respect of adult literacy programmes  cannot, of course, hold themselves aloof from a situation "which from the point of view both of  demands of juatice and the needs of development {s a major disgrace to our civilization",
19,11 Regarding education In my country, I mentioned at the seventeenth seasion of the General  Conference that Nepal had {ntroduced a plan for a system of national education, I would like now  to point out only that overall progress in the Implementation of the plan has been satiafactory. This  educational plan 1e very much interrelated with the overall plan for national development, and the  goal of our national development plan is to achieve the objectives laid down by our Constitution,  which reads as follows:  "1, The alm of the Panchayat System shall be to promote the welfare of the people by setting  up à goclety which {a democratic, just, dynamic and free from exploftation by bringing  about harmony in the interests of the different classes and professions from a comprehen  sive national outlook,
2, The political objective of the Panchayat System shall be to mobilize, to the maximum pos-  sible extent and on a voluntary basfe, the national genius and resources for setting up a  society as envisaged in clause 1, by associating, through gradual decentralization, the  maximum number of representatives of the people at all levels of the administration and  by making the general public vigilant and conscious,
3. The economic objective of the Panchayat System shall be to establish a system that will  provide maximum participation of the general public In the economic upliftmert of the  country as well as encourage private enterprises and wherein no individual or class is  able to exercise undue economic pressure upon another individual or class,
4, The social objective of the Panchayat System shall be to establish a social life, harmo-  nious and based upon morality, by eliminating the obstacles in the process of mobilizing  the general public for setting up a society as envisaged by clause 1,"
13,12 To achieve these goals, His Majesty's Government considers education as one of the most  important instruments, Madam President, my Government also believes that education exercises  a great impact on the life of the individuals of a particular society and its influence is found in in-  creasing activities against indiscipline, in dealing with the multitude of crimes and corruption and  the unbalanced economy, in the changing of social and moral concepts, and in short,in the struggle  to develop the life of the human being in all spheres of activities,
13.13 Thue in Nepal education is considered to be one of the most important means for the indivi-  dual and society to achieve the desired goal, Unesco is a world-wide organization. Because of its  very nature, Madam President, it should certainly work on the broad basis of world-wide objec-  tives. My delegation has already expressed complete satisfaction with the Programme and Budget  presented to the eighteenth session of the General Conference. It would also like to commend  Unesco for its concern about population-planning and for selecting the year 1975 as International  Women's Year. Regarding population-planning, His Majesty's Government of Nepal has given pro-  per consideration and is working very hard to formulate a population pollcy and to implement the  policy genuinely. As far as International Women's Year is concerned, Her Majesty the Queen hev-  gelf has shown great interest in this programme. Her Majesty's patronage and her concern to  raise the social and economic status of women has had a great impact on the life of women in our  country. My country ie going to give proper attention and due care to draw up an effective pro-  gramme for observing 1975 as Women's Year,
13.14 [I have repeatedly affirmed the faith and confidence of my delegation in Unesco and its acti-  vitiea, Generosity and universality, however, must not overlook specific problems existing with-  in universality. So while developing programmes, Madam President, Uneaco should take very  careful note of the fact that all regions and countries have different characteristics. Some com-  mon solutions for the problems of different countries do not appear very sound,
13.15 In Unesco, the political interest should not remain as it is sometimes found. In this con-  text, Madam President, I fully support the proposal by the Director-General to convene a confer-  ence of the 25 least-developed countries in order to identify the problems and to work out possible  solutions for them,
13.16 Madam President, I would now like to say something about culture, Every country has {ts  own unique cultural characterietics. The specific characteristics and the excellence of Nepalese  culture can never be represented in any way by any other nation. Hence Y suggest, Madam Prest-  dent, that instead of making sweeping generalizations, attempts should be made to recognize the  specific characteristics and qualities of the nations even {n the field of culture. Culture in my  country, Madam President, 18 deeply rooted in every sphere of activity in the lives of the people.  It ta thus very hard to think of development and progress while ignoring the caltural context in any  way. My delegation notes with satisfaction the interest shown by Unesco towards Nepal, in parti-  cular with regard ts the preservation of cultural sites and monuments. The work being done in the  ancient Hanunian Dhoka Palace is progressing well, It ie worth noting that the coronation of our  beloved Sovereign will algo take place there next February, Madam President, the Crown and the in-  stitution of the monarchy play a most important rôle in the social and political life of all Nepalese  people, and we are thus enthusfastically looking forward to that auspicious occasion.
13.17 Finally, Madam President, allow me to pay a special tribute to the Direstor-Ueneral, René  Maheu, whose contribution to Unesco can never be forgotten, A man of understanding, futellect  and deep fnaight, Mr, Mahcu's contribution to this world Organization and hie friendly attitude to-  wards my country will always be appreciated by the people and the Government of Nepal, On thie  occasion, Madam President, 1 would also like to assure you that Nepal's co-operation and active  support will continue to be the same fn regard to the incoming Director-General, Mr. M'Bow,  Thank you very much.
14. The PRESIDENT!  I thank the head of the delegation of Nepal and Î give the floor to Colonel Henry Yacouba Dupule,  head of the delegation of Niger,
16.1 M, YACOUBA DUPUIS (Niger). -  Madame la Présidente, jo auis particulièrement heureux de joindre ma voix à colle des ora-  teurs précédents pour vous féliciter trba vivement de votre élection à la présidence de la Confé-  rence générale. Votre haute autorité et votre compétence sont un gage do succès pour nos travaux.
17 15.2 Je voudrais également adresser mes vifs remerciements et ceux de ma délégation à votre  prédécesseur, l'honorable représentant du Japon, qui s'est acquitté de ses tâches de président  d'une manière extrèmement satisfaisante pour nous tous,
15,3 Nous voulons aussi, au moment où M. René Maheu va quitter le Secrétariat de notre Organi-  sation, lui exprimer notre reconnaissance pour tout ce qu'il a fait en faveur de nos nations et pour  le dévouement avec lequel il a si longtemps servi les idéaux de l'Unesco.
15.4 L'Unesco se trouve aujourd'hui À un stade particulièrement intéressant de son nécessaire  effort de renouveau, En de telles circonstances, nous sommes, nous autres Africains, particu-  litrement heureux de pouvoir nourrir l'espoir de voir confier A un fils de l'Afrique, à un homme  du Tiers Monde, pleiñ de mérite, de volonté et dé dévouement, la haute responsabilité de diriger  le Secrétariat de notre Organisation,
15.5 Nous éprouvons également une très grande satisfaction à constater que, d'ores et déjà,  l'Unesco s'approche de la véritable universalité par l'accroissement continu du nombre de ses  membres et membres associés. Nous souhaitons la bienvenue à tous ceux de nos collègues qui  viennent ainsi d'être invités À participer À nos travaux, et nous saluons chaleureusement la pré-  sence parmi nous des observateurs des mouvements de libération d'Afrique et de Palestine.
15.6 Je ne veux pas me livrer maintenant à un examen du contenu des documents qui nous sont  soumis. Un tel examen sera entrepris dans les commissions spécialisées et se poursuivra ensuite  tout au long de la mise en oeuvre des programmes adoptés.
15.7 Le Niger apprécie les efforts incéssants que l'Organisation déploie en faveur de l'éducation  des adultes, car cette question constituc un des thèmes centraux de nos préoccupations nationales,  L'alphabétisation fonctionnelle, l'éducation rurale et urbaine revêtent pour nos sociétés une égale  iraportance.
15.8 Dans cette optique, nous estimons que le Bureau régional de l'Unesco - dont il faut saluer la  compétence et le dévouement - n'est pas, tout compte fait, à la mesure de notre vaste continent  africain. I faudrait l'étoffer davantage et décentraliser ses moyens d'action.
15.9 En ce qui concerne le Secteur des sciences exactes et naturelles, il nous semble que l'action  d'assistance serait plus efficace si los ressources qui servent ou serviront à la financer étaient  mises directement au service des chercheurs, des consultants et des organismes de la région con-  sidér£e, en vue de la création d'infrastructures de recherche dans la perspective de l'utilisation  rationnelle des nouvelles sources d'énergie.
15.10 Dans le domaine de la culture, nous salucns l'existence d'un plan décennal d'étude des  langues africaines. La collecte des traditions orales nous paraît être un des piliers d'une telle  planification, et je me félicite de pouvoir porter à la connaissance des honorables délégués que le  Centre de tradition orale de Nfamey va être placé sous l'égide de l'OUA.
15.11 Mesdames et Messieurs, l'établissement d'un nouvel ordre économique a pour point de dé-  part et d'aboulissement l'homme, Il s'agit donc d'une oeuvre révolutionnaire, qui nous permettra  de tourner définitivement une page de l'histoire marquée par l'inégalité et l'injustice. C'est une  nouvelle structure qu'il faut mettre en place en vue de l'épanouissement de l'homme, ce sont les  habitudes et tes mentalités qu'il faudrait reviser et réadapter. La tâche est immense, mais elle  est à 1a mesure de ce que nous attendons de l'Unesco, Aussi est-ce avec détermination que mon  pays et mon gouvernement s'attelleront À cette tâche, dans lo cadre des objectifs et des idéaux de  l'Unesco.
15,12 Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs, je ne terminerai pss sans remercier les  pays et les organisations internationales qui ont apporté une aldo À nos paya victimes dé la séche-  resse, dont les effets s'estompent fort heureusement, Il est souhaitable que l'Unesco, par exemple  A travers ses programmes relatifs & l'environnement, s'intéresse à l'étude systématique des causes  et des effets de ces perturbations écologiques. Nous pourrions ainel dégager les moyens appropriés  À la lutte contre les conséquences néfastes que ces calamités exercent sur l'homme et sur son mi-  lieu naturel, Merci, Madame la Présidente,
16. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the head of the delegation of Niger, and I give the floor to H.E. Dr. Mohamed Alsharif,  head of the delegation of the Libyan Arab Republic.  (dsl)! appel gn pad) hep tI) wand ae wedi yyy  ashy Lud, 3 00h BSD ead i pg SI 01 deme Bata lop Deady 3adly pp el a] pay  TURN PAN PECTIC UR TE YOUR TI LE TOWEL WITTE WON 1 VRP TINY APR WR) IPR I) BER PPR |  WRI pl WITTE RYE TPR TEW YR 80 ue HTT  SC ITE WRT VOR WT TTY UXT IF POR TUV IY [TCV IRV] FO VR PR VR pl OR LO PO  NT FFA  TIRVS WN LE WRN LE VOOR LIRE | IU PS CURE LPS LAC A LOUER PW RR WR THN P  FS JR WC I CAR | tre Beat SPIER TEVA CIUR TES NY
442   LLY hyo dd Pasty Gus, hep dt rad) ad) Naat puist ol Lad (pany — VOX  CB gl JS etd 15d pol Lal  Labial ide adhil least @ dyad 3, hey god) JI ii ee Ji oy yor  FAN GLS TRV A PR PAVECISE SN FYPRIES VAC FY WOR KEV WPOURS WEL [RPPYA IRN Les Guess  CUI WC JOT Fg DR TP JS JRTET TE WON YA Al 0 din WP | IY | FET LE 098 5) LS EG TRE | 5  has  FA WEN NTVSUITIN. ss PUVA 1 GRIS [UPL li SPRINT 05 REN TPR PRUVPACIA J IVS  AIM ys CL Spm ue al Jp (She gels oF GI) Lisa, GBge pas ep Nd ly Jandy  Ferd 85mg post 5000 3,0 yds ple plat Btn GH 0slis)] le bial Jotul) a Sas Wily radial,  OUST FOI SUC SOW 1 | OP | A 55N JU 0% Lot le SUP | 0 OPT | I PO le DROPS JEL JOE | JS OW FY)  oY Godt bps, PRE aL Lise aslo 5 Ÿ aby yi dency ddl Ge V7 8 5 1 aa nal  ’ col ules dla Lsagasaly Le ugsyl  ahi 6 ie Wl, of Jphey habe cg ulal capt 6 RoW abat til tea Naat yy,  hola) Lib 5 3a8hI1 3 amd at I Loh eli 150 opus dual Yale Laat Gos  sol zat ad of Le WSpy as in elle JS le oh 1 JI Ls ay Jually Go Lob!)  ol MoS Y BBUY atl aug) 335001 Glad § lacs slo Gulicl ob abd edn i iyo 2, V  R901 WE] REN +  FL ITIL Lis 8 Lyd (15 diz, p35 oF Luke (53 Bad Ld Band) 45 B50 col Bia ol 10  Ayana! ps lads pds Les sy éme ed Pir hyg ds Ci pe of Bob ai! Las ayy A Jabal  JS ebb Lastly bss, LS canal GIE Sui LS1u opis 5 pal BEY al) aolidla es LI!  . CS V ah dl COON | IRE EN |  Jet on Tan Llyn tll dans neige gel yas Wake anys ul ells (0 ALORS BEN 5 le bs  . Lol 351 Loman * lig 6 Ls) Lan ongy s Lis pays Jind uy oped!  PRICE PRC KTR RUE OX PORTE JOE. (] POI OP [POE] Ft | aîp0 pre WT WHOS [VPS | FF AP  a Gym Late ak . Lol als SY FIL PIO als las POSER TETSU | us PNW PP [IPT [PE JOR  Ba ol wow LS) | asspallo baz Vets gud Gb pub day l Guild pla halle  oa Jad oar V O91 aad 05d Lise Lyd Ne Joy Ve paf Lid A JUIN SL ge SpA  FI ells 58 JB 151 Tedigpmally capil? on ste Ve pa ape ji SUIS UN 5 UNE y Lad) Lat  RPCCICRPOL TiN REN IWR NRW PSTN LE WN PE POPRCT NT SI IPERS THC IN  Lads Lins (Sead Blopatdl jm pom phony ga V1 3K Gis ul LS Yadudt edn glo yyy
27554 dural Fan Lead al Leds Luge Jo byzdt dad] Ls (p35 Liable ol des gebJl Lia 5  NE PUR TOP lie FON | 4 UA NYCRR I à pas ip |  ils WJ BN Lads Wg is ul pe BBY (ably Bil) Fuss) pa VE aki 4 WSS pen is  edly 30 Je gadd} 5 pp ligne Lise lo bin Sai, Vy + pal Ha fo Las V1 pus (21 LLIN  PEPE BI, XV Leg la ts J ACCOR UF IRV SCI [IW [EY pen is POY 13 TI PORT  + hacky Bobcat dad oe Bail WI) ible Lsibla Jpls lo bacs VE eda  Jat gle alle ol yates MeN pbs lo pb Dil 5) ue puis lo paad) viens IS Wy  Cellet J JA Ala YT Jas uid gall  saeradly Opa Yh Vraie JS lbs BUS 51 JSLgdl 03 pong ap cape Lulld Gls 3k YI 5e Jal  OÙ Lule poy whit 03d WI ALAIN GS Il oF 4 iy Load BBS Le Las on ayy spa IE AY ay Cas  olad! JL oF WhUJII IGEN a lit =  FEE PRN NT IVR FUN 4 ddl 5 Va WIVERTR WT IVS E WCURTIR POR’ PEIRR BSF TYR REVI  FYI AIN) [PSUS | JURPSRIN be dal del ul à TOU VX | I TOUR ques [I ON | IO PR PH  oi foal JS ada o TW] POW WRIIFSNM | Big YRS |) Joly ge pub OY STE JOVI VY | WS A | Toa  DR FLE A puss  ds 1) IRS KTTRNE WI ERTS WTR] PRT WPS JC JOR le LS 56 TPE WC Tf dal RY  os Task LY) pa Lis LI ad) oe campbell chy) IS yo Ls he  FAIRE UIE WR UL TT VT POUL IPR PARK {JRE WE PRUSES WIRRIVORE JV TYTN ASS WIR TPER". SUE WHA FW [PW  lola JS ALLS ABE 3s Ld 131 YI Blas  CEPTS RS JURE I TVRF YORU | NOU | IPE WR TIT WON [| VROORR | IF IAN FI Vpn RR VHS  Ass à Basta (f Ind! tng ponts dad gn pale dy 36,1 00 Jp y nt) VUS Ld Le, Le  gpd pa J Jews 3 UN I JU CS pl pV abo ol 4 plasty BRUT § ppd po  vga as le Loghubg UBT à de (J oy tenes oplaly Ld Il ag 6 Les lly Age WI Jy all AA BY  md BY 01 10 pL) Jandis Wile plis Jags Ltd Gopal) Ua VI UB eo dB Ag à Loh) SAN 50  NE JOC spas) dy Lans W1 TUN FEIRIE D Ve FPS AL V1 ul cdd JR WRT |  Glan ¥ dandy Dou La LL pb ll Ke pen | ad a Go! gui Il IX ui)
17 dndhes LIN J 3 Jy VY adss head) Wali (go Labbe ia ‘usé Loy § BEAL deadly pla] labs)  Slhiy as Josbicy 0700 tame orb! obit lip dnt nd Lip a Ba tly Apt Bolus VI BIT JS le  CI wy els UL 5  Jee JS is ta laddly omy laddl ptm (bs tagy und) 3)10 VI east (f Bupa] oll ages ol LS  Joa pale WI JS ULI AS, Lad) W cts 5 — yi VHB clad! yo Il p Lad das  » BUT, plas)  pl pros La sua gd ui ad) 3800 qe — els 93 94 — LS ast 2,50) eda ol YoY  JIA | RSATE WHE WESTIN PIPE JV RRIF ROB FLT | WHE ORIER — publ Lin 5  ia) api) Jy La GU 0 Un Lens aid 3S, Lead pn pps ABB All JS Lee glo Lisi ub yal)  ree) ab had) Bed smd Wy WI Bs oF Us US 50 255 + dally pl lly pass als El Jaad)  oli elss lil Ud Lb ass bs ay + (IAA +) Bo bles Jd Use Gé ll pla) aj) pcb  a— elias dye watt] 2151 oP ol LS. glass que ve ce Lal! pyar casses p Ladd areas Last!  SVG WN | FA RET BERT RF ITI] PF | Mis Bb) SOIC I CI POY] PURPRIESIRPL RIE PRR Se TY  ods WS pe ap Was 3am Laud! oly) copy aa) Aie co ity s'y quad | 3b pins RER ENTE (OR)  Vin cll J vu apes y ddl da SU 08S + add pe Bopper | ob ue) + désires ; et  Ls als pans oo gb ar plan Uy apis pouls oly 5 ST Sanam 3,200 | PVR PE WRC | | tal RVR  cosy + ualll Ji spa ue (lad lll ols ea ep ls dora DL 1 5 45 5 IL AR 0 BOL  dual Lia days Bal y gel ais, SN pales Jos (jf Lal Wop Ladd oo Genel) gpa) hp qaa dl  GB IL Bl Ls on Bed bly clucte 5 Jus 8,05 ap 755 last (pls dae fonds  eb) Ll bol colis ull 3500 wha diliia, e Lall Gol ale yuo Ll lov Y  I nym 983 opel ABB JS lp lili eme à Lpduiaty Lis Uy panty 1 desing BI! Lys Lge  Ups ly od) Jil SUING Dad] clbshinl ly Gad gion) oo 55 iS) pens 2K  darts Jans Beall ausSadd y Ve UT Slaw J LY 2 ny Alpes Lp SUR pes Vly eal) LS  «dl 130g anid! Jal clude lala etl ge os Lash Janz 8 Legs Badly Wajlely Upto can)  ds rl JS pes audi cist is | Late, fod ue Les le hp ls clusludluibisn Ld otic can  ol Ble 10 a BUG Bad le uly § By uly Bai Vic lpn Sicile loc ag Tle botdl pan yds  BL DC FURS Gp 0331 Gale b TORT PR Ab PN I  ry Wad Lat al Miz abit ltd) Ling Fabia Laas lle lus Las al gl lia 3m  . ladies ole B ia Le dct 5,4 Yi wlagdly bals Lo nés add) eam pe EE)  V0 VA Ml pid ly atthe all lo ST Lpsggs Jake 5555 Apayl nya appel 0!  Lips plie Lal Vin pie pigs Ll LS. dl JLT 5 Lys Lplomaaite pics sg AY ls GLI 0 pen  ; vga  appl eb lal oué SN pas oh puis 5 cdl) JEPEW ILE WON TE VEINES | [RS FE RSA TERRA | BREVIS  Pied on cot Bid) pairs soil cities iy prlaitl dle JS FE LLY Wppadd Lidl BBS,  os Lal ilole J Lead, ob as Leslie Lamy ly 031 Ji 10 (felosdl sin gu DU gp Yigal)  . (WPS EW IN RT ps tes Ÿ1  om drat lesbian Uy Jos BAS SEMI JU ot lo Ja bris Lin Jus ul rj ty  each an loli | pb Jus BAS TAU 0a Las! Jul Spat pie of oY IN OT 45 day + os dad)  cldudleds ge daa cad)  sien Landhe Jy éd dl ill pes à api pause pe Ls (ff Ls oles alia dali dl  ska [RJ PPO IVS TREN PY] AOR | IR | IF WET | FS PT] pO DAL FPL IF REI RR EE LS
5 WALL WET WS WL EW PRPS MURTY DRYERS A SA IR LET vu les  bist oe bn SHY oY vale aiin pi qu À Je lye ugishl lash PUS, 3 IL he JN Bud va €  Jad ee Waly § abe Jak can ASE loge Ls VTLS Laat Glo Jet / praien Ge WW!  ob dad oe abs gl IlIS dis cprnnd lee op Ale pub gels ad) oon Se Shady a)  «6 Vy WY LR) pany cA pPhadly dal) à amd pe Wohin pe os) Gb Skye Wy) or AE  . ss Is (Sols pH ls ¢ LÉ,  {17.1) Me. EL-SHERIF {Libyan Arab Republic) (Translation from the Arabie)  In the name of Allah the Merciful, the Compassionate. May prayers and peace be bestowed upon  Mohamed our gracious Prophet, Madam President, distinguished heads and members of delegations, Ît  pleases me at the cutsei to convey to you, Madarn President, on behall of the détegation of the Libyan Arab  Republio, our congratulations on your slection as President of the eighteenth session of Uneaco's General  Conference, It fe fortunate that your election as President coincides with the International Women's Year  to be celebrated throughout the world next year; as far au we aré concerned, thie election also emphasizes  the effectiveness of the women's revolution presently undertaken by women In the Libyan Arab Republic in  order 0 achieve positive Integration in à sound society inspired by a noble human ideal,
(17,8) 1would also like to pay tribute to the Director-General, to the chairman and members of the Execu-  tive Board and to the Secretariat, wishing this Conference all success.
(17.3) My duty calls upon me to extend my warm greelingu to the States which foined the Organization dur- 17  ing this acssion, whether as permanent members or as observers, particularly the Republic of Guinea-  Bissau which, thanks to its people's struggle, has achieved the African man's longing for freedom and  liberation, The return of Portugal to the membership of this Organization emphasizes the importance for  all {ta Members to observe noble human values.
(17.4) The fact that the Organization has welcomed the adherence of African liberation movements has left  a favourable impression on all justice - dnd peace-loving nations, This stand prompts ue to urge your  Conference to accept moi e African and international liberation movements, Wé thank this great Conference  for attaining a high human standard by accepting the National Liberation Front of Angola and the Palestine  Liberation Organization recognized by the League of Arab States au the sole legitimate representative of  the militant Palestinian people who were uprooted from their land and enslaved in their own country because  at one point in our present age humanity lost the moral sénse of its own existence and became subservient  to selfish and materialistic Interests,
(17,5) Madam President, I realize that past sessions of this Conference have listened to detailed and  lengthy speeches about the aims of this Organization and the extent of {ta importance. I may not be adding  anything new by saying that it 1e the only pioneering body in contemporary life. Our belief in what is right  and just urges us to cast aside all subjective conaiderations, In this respect, we emphasize that whatever  benefit could be gained by any Member State is a benefit gained by humanity as a whole; the real meanings  of education, science and culture could be nothing else but human.
(17.6) Such a conception of the Organization's real alms calls upon us to take a self-critical look at our
7ôle within this major human sphère, It urges us to reconsider the stand and membership of some of those  who ait with us, while maintaining their own racial and inhuman‘ interpretation of education, culture and  sclence and consistently refusing to implement your wise resolution, just ar they have consistently rejected  resolutions adopted by all other international organizations and bodies. A genuine culture fs one which di-  rects our behaviour towards goodness, and induces us to uphold the nations struggling for the liberation of  themselves and their cultures, for the revival of their civilizations and for the establishment of their own  original identities, The delegation of the Libyan Arab Republic joins ite voice to the numierous sincere  voices that have been raised at thie Conference, calling for an end to the desecration of the cultural herit-  age of defenceless peoples by the forces of occupation, In this context, I would like to underline the dese-  cration of the cultural heritage of Arab Jerusalem fn Palestine by usurping Zionist forces, It is our belief,  nevertheless, that the stand taken by the gréat majority in tiils Conferences does not offer a real and radi-  cal solution to this problem. This cultural heritage, which enlightened the world during the Dark Ages,  cannot escape being damaged and tampered, with unless all traces of enslavement, injustice and suppression  aré eradicated from the face of that land, aid unless the defenceless regain their freedom and become  masters of their own cultural heritage.
(17.7) This Organization cannot remain {dle waiting for the struggling nations to liberate themselves be-  fore offering them seats at this Conference, It te bound by its own vocation to undertake continuous action  ueing all available means to help in accelerating thé libération of enslaved nations and offer them an aid  which {s their due, To achieve this, Unesco should take a scientific and moral stand on tht vital issues  currently affecting the human race. Such a stand should not be confined to the legs developed nations, as  it behoves us to lake a décisive stand first of all vis-A-vie the s0-called advanced nations, We find that  information, cultural and educational media fn these nations sway the ininds of both their own éitizens and  the citizens of the defenceless nations for the sake of cheap materialistic gains, Since we live toddy in a  small world, any non-sèlentific and unethical behaviour eculd upset the balances of justice, truth and good-  ness, throwing humanity into abysmal darimess. Examples of this may be found {n the way in which some  of thete media presented the energy erisis and the problems facing the consumer and industrial societies,  {n the way they blamed them on the developing nations and deformed the features of their cultures and civili-  zations, The scientific approach of thie pioneering Organization makes it imperative for it to rectify the  erroneous cultural conceptions held in our present world,
(17.8) We are full of hope that this Organization will achieve its noble humanitarian objectives, since the  Director-General, Mr, René Maheu, has put it on the right course to follow in {te great march, Mr, Amadou  Mahter M'Bow - the candidate to succeed him fn this highly responsible post - fe ideally suited to carry on  hie effort and introduce the sort of creative approach we look for to achieve results enhancing goodness and  justice.
(17.9) Madam President, we have been led to emphasize the Importance of this Organization during the  Conference {n particular, This Le because we consider that its resolutions, as well as all the sclentifls  concepts included In the Report of the Director-General and {n the speeches delivered by série members,  combine in stressing the need for a radical approach towards the problems of education, science and cul-  ture, instedd of a mere patching-up. Thi¢ radical approach could not be achieved, however, without a  total cultural revolution embracing every aspect of our life, Thies {a what {s happening now in the Libyan  Aro Republic, The Arab people living theré are carrying on à total popular culturel revolution, one in  which every individual can assist freely and directly, for the firat time, to change the face of life in our  soclely and to establish à sound approach in the flelde of culture and education. The majority of the nations  that beea'mé independant during this century hive adopted educational And cultursl approaches taken by the  advanced nations and have imitated them. Their experte were fn the habit of revamping these cultures And  imposing them on their peoples without consulting them, The genuine cultures of these peopled were, there-  fore, neglected and cast aside and allowed to deterforaté in thé face of sich foreign cultural invasion.  Thus mankind missed the chance of benefiting from the cultural exparlences of many nations. The Libyan  Arab people have avolded this gross mistake, Prectee and clear suggestions concerning the objectives and  érientéitons of education and culture were submitted by thé citixens, These sepirations were then moulded  by the experte Into a unique, new educational philosophy. This educational philosophy refleéts all the  human, national and spiritual sptinga of our personality, with a view to producing pien who belong to thelr  age, yet are not merely acted on by the modern world but Act on {t from the standpoint of thelr genuine  heritage and immortal values. The experiment of involving the Popular Committees In school management,  at the level of primary, secondary and higher educational establishments of all kinde as well as other cul-  tural Institutions, has ensured us the effective participation of all those who work In the fielde of education  and culture. .
17 (17,10) Undoubtedly, this cultural revolution enables us to achieve the two objectives set out In the draft  programme submitted to this Conference, namely, the democratization and regeneration of education. This  cultural revolution has made our citizens aware of the questions that arlee in regard to education and cul-  ture, It has enabled them to participate actively In golving these questions, thus making it possible for  educational personnel to work effectively and creating a proper scientific atmusphere for achieving advance-  ment and effecting change, This has been clearly reflected in the State's plan to eradicate {lliteracy, among  those who have never received schooling, by the end of 1980, It is a bold step for which we wish success,  especially as the general educational system now caters for all children of school age, The resolve of the  people will overcome all obstacles, All educational means have been used in order to achieve this objec-  tive, particularly the use of television. Viewing centres were get up in most regions of the Republic and  a workshop was held for the organizers of such centres in co-operation with the Unesco Regional Centre for  Functional Literacy at Sirs-El-Layyan in the Arab Republic of Egypt. The results of this workshop will  constitute an experiment to be studied in seminars held at the Centre, ,
(17.11) Madam President, the principle of lifelong education acclaimed and favoured by all has a place in  the heart of our educational traditions, It has been advocated by the Prophet of Islam, Mohamed, may  peace be upon him, who urged people to seek learning from the cradle to the grave. In the Libyan Arab  Republic, we have done a great deal {n the field of adult education, In thig respect, a fleld survey was  completed and included in a scientific statistical report for submission as a working paper to international  conferences and seminars, including the World Population Conference.
(17.12) Our country has a special interest in our heritage in {ts various cultural and physical aspects. A  speclal programme was elaborated to organize the country's historical archives, to collect and classify its  documents, and to r, mine different means of preserving them, A study is under way concerning the pos-  sibility of recuvering as many as possible of Arabic archives and manuscripts scattered in different places  inside and outsid: the country, in order to make them easily and readily available for use by research  workers and s¢olare, In the field of archaeology, our Government does not spare any effort to undertake  aurchaeologiesi research, or to promote and preserve archaeological discoveries, It works in co-operation  with the wo:ld'e moe. renowned universities and institutions specializing in this art, and offers them vari-  ous aids and facilities which enable them to fulfil their mission, On the other hand, the Government {8 keen  on attending all archaeological conferences at different regional and international levels, À permanent  committee was constituted, with a budget of {ta own, for the preservation and protection of Old Tripoli, It  is my pleasure to point out, in this context, the assistance offered us by Unesco in thie field. We hope that  co-operation with thls Organization, and other organizations and institutions concerned with preservation  of the human her{{age, will be continued and increased, Thanks to {ta cultural revolution, the Libyan Arab  Republic concentrates on popular culture and original folkloric arte revealing creativity, These are re-  corded and presented inside the country and abroad. Attention fe aleo being pald to disseminating this  culture in printed and audio-visual forms.
(17.13) Madam President, not only dogs the Libyan Arab Republic offer its sons all known educational,  cultural and scientific services and activities, at all levels and In all types of education, as well as offer-  ing many people of other nationalities the opportunity to benefit from these services inside or outside the  country; ft also reiterates its desire to maintain positive co-operation with this international Organization.  It is appropriate to express,in this context, our appreciation for the introduction of Arabic as a working  language in the meetings of the Executive Board, Perhaps it is aleo time for your distinguished Confer-  ence to adopt Arabic as a working language in all conferences and seminars organized by Unesco. The  Arab Nation, being sincere, as it has always been, in maintaining co-operation with all nations and inter-  national organizations and above all with Unesco, will benefit and allow others to benefit from carrying on  and evaluating educational experiments in the Arab world, It ia my pleasure to point out, in thig respect,  that these experiments are now being carefully studied by a specialized Arab committee whose aim is to  elaborate an overall sirategy for Arab education,
(17.14) Madam President, distinguished heads and members of delegations, I would like to stress, in con-  clusion, that the Revolution of 1 September Is eager to establish respect for the dignity of man, to assert  his freedom and the indépendance of his culture, For the sake of building a world fn which justice and wel-  fare prevall, it believes In co-operating with all as well as in supporting and standing by all nations strug-  gling for their sovereignty, It emphecizes the importance of ¢o-operation with Unesco and all other  international organizations, Thank you, and may peace and the blessings of God be upon you,
18, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of the Libyan Arab Republic, and I give the floor to H,E, Dr,  Ahmed Mohammad Ali, head of the delegation of Saudi Arabia.  (ie dpanadl pp IST) lo ase val Sl sadly 40  as ai, cB, Vlan Sls pXdldo lly clog chao dud J 30 hus peal ol! A pany  ntl obst Bu pall Sas) ote (J) rugand Apa SLI is ound ol bla wpe ph  qh-—__—L de aaly 0sSang 6 Bad Jad DIN] RT) FI TOPS PREE RICIROLIFCY [RV (SN Sans goles ose  lo J HI PEIN gual jms (il AnphAI dy al) lead) sda Ula, psu (und! ial ah  vid sie Jrabopd ora) PRIS All wb Gl Bal JUS Le  —Lslaly ole pdt Jlaatbedl Las Joo gay re FRUL ad (J Lishs le dtl) Le ll ol  oss Ji Sluts ls BUSI J 003d] JL) Liga ty gle Wlgbd | Bordas — Fully chug! Ly  YWETTTTOR IVA IPT POPS SE NE POUR | | KYO IY quel 238 2 PRL Rf WCW TI POUR PEI PRL  ETTORE VIO FORA [FX APTI LE le NL PE RSV EER EV RTPSCRC IC TRS ANT SE ls  « Sadyzy di) pas WL VE pue 09 ,baI1 0  so daly) lant lo Gatland ly all puish fuga deg ad Vahl Wy oo A TE EIRE RD  ol ge alias Buby plo om el) Lge ugly! WN eal) GTI, By a 3 1 dm dde Auli SE
446   od ie UT apa ll LI 3, WE eye Wad wash oY ogi ody + eal PIN, EI 30s eile ly  caput pfs dyes  cir p ad had VEL wy 0 dels gud (ge Whale TU) lmiucly 3 IL clap chde oy 4,
130 basis, ond) Sais dV pls pete Boland Lyris) US oo Al WS (J 75 Ÿ unt] (S55 oo lind  SE VT} WOK RRP 1 FT IF POPY 100 JPET IY WPS TRACTS URN | VO | TG | BOUTS FOROS  as Ls WU pil ep Buy Gad! a ging Bea Bis phat om ape bl Wy andl GH pons Lad 08 Je ea  soo dily spy Ep) Gl dabiadl dant sa gale ay) deaadloany uid, huufadl sia Leda il LA  pleas Yh cuban all Gls JB JUIN y J ais oy + Sami leat deadly A be ca vie lyons i 6  E> NIRV LUS Ale AU. Les PL DVR JET JOO | oups Val ais Soupe (als pSaieS PRIN |  Laer Lal 45 45 Lune cols Si ha ST 0X LY LL ET Ld Shiny co LI, 3 Land ly Lee AIN  chaabi a dm I ICRU [PET SUS DRO WE TE VY PRN # TTR VUE WIM TE FUITNCHS SE NETIN TIS JS TON  + tla aslaVliios 5 Ne bass du Lau ls tL aie 3h Us atl pan 0 of gi Listy  KUN) POSTE VRTVOR | | PO] {IU RE y pal) (EN J DW NSS ROUT If Dt EY RVR R SO  NEUE lampes gli Les FORRCIIN PRT WYSRITN [BRK SO TE WYRE FUE FS pue "PURI |  IV ani y ais +) aale le Less halls IE T TD UAT TIPPS SUSE | J SOR SO SOUCY PRR ST JO  Ll uy VU ds canal dy wl ial nant cu hole gyn) od J las Je aby B35 ped opt  iBall sealed 350,080 ISLE Gand l angi oly ¢ pdt Gena, GI ISL aegis 5 VLai Dobe AS LaSI  rms wlan judd Gute Glo SLES dda plo (JE dro oF yu lass Lens pistes bly Ledele (2)  pt Laing — (UIE ape ly ST pany ASS Ld dag Blam ale! lo IL 6 Jy 41 pa liz)  Bolly land) Ll Xd dad ly iV sup 5 Mapa ST sad haie ol I) opie 5 line aS Bi  J WY | JPW JS D161 PY RPV SSPUON | FRPURRPUON | [OVSCRRY TIT PE WYPON | | WIN B10 y 1  Om pe 0150 BY V1 ian Des (Lyle ul phot ) Jie gusdl Lilie 08 15h. pbad) (La 3350  veka pi) dl prb See Gl ge andl Gls GLI gab ayy ded] Gl Ji) Lis gutsy of lab JU  fl lie Saal up BE a ple V1 ae I hee io La YE aod e passat Vie pl 55h LI,  deeb JF Liye an AVY à 1 AY 0 elie! Gena) Lal mg Bud Vall ul dlls ob 1 40  PLAN dle bathe lya ali bus La clas ans ls ddd; cous! Lol doté co Las  Boles! asks Thay pute ol Busey Glad Yd) § aa ls *LasV1 Jy ul Band YE Bind)  PA Regal ANT Feu WR FER PER S08 SEU NCS WUT PU Lie PRES IE AVS LIPS 1)  (WERE WS DW | Jf PH CREE SPORT WANTON LH LF 720] IR OUR 2 JPR BPC pales ab ie, 0 ole 531 SUL  alt cds ol Ul Bell dal hyper SI J pasty Beil! 555 Hae Ld ol Go LS 0 HVE Nas  Le dgpallo, ball pal trs das 581 topper pal l Ji ol Lie pis + alll JV A on  s Leese ul papal dan le pans Gall ed BI JL od Lae ana) lug!  oo sGIY à Je (dass Vs cp LI su le blast NIN LE WH] VX de Gal OST ee POR) ICH FRERE PRY  UrFhe J Vpl Sly dad usa) (J VAT Jy DV 10 Laney Lamps Sally pall as pe br pee  dyad asi Lael) Bodh SIL ph brie II MIE + Let ass Bball a Vl (pie YI Glos Layg bis  dang lage 91055 Bly A A le (grad) bad) peal] Lan lay § Ly asp Bead) Jyphiad Hate Loa (pass  EN. | PPRTTY IFPRI le pe lui FES Lai IF) PERV IES I FPR  Tove ALI Baebes Gus ad JV 40 edt cou 5 UT ape Nae V1 re tiga 1 te ITS LE 9) Le nay  JSloy f prets bod Gén Linls BUI ale ley (gb Bald Ba Da V0 ie wns lg Sally oman dial 0m  Brett) te ans al phat Lil cd LT lo Biddy pa od J Bal dl LA ul) pd  avg pas ait GS JPR. OW | FER) REL IRTP FRU LORCA | If RTH I WE POA TR FEL POW  old day ly. PLANE anale job pla Jolizy 35 ) ay ple of ous Sarpad) sts 5 IN ess,  aden) 17101 (J gS 10), Cans 0000 posal ly Lady (lad) Buea 0 lab Rega) Jy a) #159 pee  oda lea JU Lg pub Vu busal aigail Ve gpSmy + Bude 5 LaplySally lai lei pbs (§ La Lys  Cave plpthe ola psladly BEAL dupa ay GLa die 5 ddl goal!  PSUR FN | OVP WIR batiel pdt ga [P00] IRTP [UR POU PC TI PISRP Las Ps DOR 130 RR 1 OY  JREERTIN] YS TT IRS VE ay) 5 AIT Nha UPI) SRP PIRI FPA | I TO IRL WE TON 1  L ul anky selle pres JAN Gate had] PUS TRA 4 WN TR PERE ORY TVS y ta 5 IT]  Vin que 1 VO TOURS Ve alt Y IPR [PRO SOW IA ASS ‘UN UE à BR WJ 3 raie CI, y  pla Ve Apt al RFA pate USE TE WH Taie Pn Wt SE SRR A ef  AB Min YORE IN ui Vas YOUN FOTN | Min J] WNL IVTSPR WY DOOR IU Vie TC HY | I pas es  PES | NCO SWE VI ble pe SKY 6) Las Lilo AI Lin Ge pedale SIN 5h val alo  ole US J ole CW usd) ig lun le Vans 5 AIT laze YE Lay gue ols da SIT yapal)  abus éasbs TOA] JET UR TTI TUPUYL § 11 CO PORWR FOE WIP | IF V5 TO PRP Qe COR 1 J Lan |  « gylaadt
17 Lad Le ag paliast) EU SI gg BI Grade PUS 6 AN BE Vite ue 8 Vi ES le — yA  oe JS ls igh pad Ved U3 te Bag] dite ply SNA ls dame Lig Lake LS. peu Ji  Le ub Lans Bp pad] Spal VSL Lan la 2 LS (Jf poe ay Las obj UY ous ol SUL pany + 7 ada  JV PU ile Gobi a Jupe Le dal) Slat Jit rN FER Let Ji FOR PSPC J J MPN 1  EC J PR FOUN EWE A PER TS TR TART TR POE SCI WR IRR ul le  PURSES VX | IVD MP dep] SYS BY Ln pdySally al role Fri phaadt least SUD Vlan — V 404  CJL lay 0 583 Las Lp uals Agile II Les pbs! 20 ical LY Tels Ge byw ge L320  orp =e apleand pansy Boi ly a de Bd) sadly oly) Lindi Oil Seiya egy Lise Un antl ol ans
6 desk » PUS VU Jp AMV 08UU PE SCUOLA WON | PESTA CYR | dla NVRTRIPWINCLIVL SUR SEC De  STV) TRF SSCP TNR UT) sgime red WJ 1 FO PEL HY PAL IR YA oF re JUIN Lael pes  Jet lgdly ral psidif} Ji 0) puss 15, Ladd Bly Lary lues (gy Load Lin (500  or lihay 55 bdiedy oo bye lanl u io andl diye aay Wop Laks 85 © Gengdaadd] Ls biaite 5 300d!  «aude Lal Jud) Ling Sup!  til orbits pl pale Vos ( sSemisad| Lis (1 Buen] upg) JI Lia LE on ey  Sy | POOP J [FOR RTO JES VF. J VIOU I halo LAN que PU Nv AE ETRY PRE TROUPE LAS  dyy al PIP) IOUS. WIRE Base WEY IPVOR WORTH FO 8 ls pale USA WAR Les Lens Lu Caso pm,  J JERSEY [IRR JE I |S J OWT | PUY FN ob rind ll lola Yo bal eg! gras ll isis CIEL  JPUSTYUAKTE WIR T" TRF PFT 0 Grass JS Le asp PE ICE Vies TR IEE FEES  oF dotiy paddling, wi call Was! os Xai dpgallelolall ulus IOI TOP ep, JOP | F7% Rt  opel pts Wy leuy ¢ Bape Ye Lilly pladly clad grote oF pha! Ld jar pl oe 0 bed!  SSN VR TR JO ag phil | JOP [6 TOC. SCR WIR LE J ae AA  doy uke Bhd) dain Leds IY Balin 130 bd] upgeadt Jai (Bu Vi bat SLIT Ley
6 ol aly Bum) Lough ois BLA pans Je 15 Tp Wad} gbla asl JI plat Lad  ASI (Sam oe aS Langs La he apts psd Sha  lc Las le Ue JL last Jou (Jy « ESL)  Gers ob Gaisilly lll tld aly Slot ann lo Lagan FIL PL Lis hus psy  BPEL. SUPT E SPS AI PI OWA ES ES APR PE JON LIFTER IN BY
(19.1) H,E, Dr, AHMED MOHAMMAD ALI (Saudi Arabia) (Translation from the Arabic):  In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate, Madam Pres{dent, laillés and gentlemen, may  peace and the blessing of God be upon you. It fs my pleasure to convey to you, ca behalf of the delegation  of Saudi Arabia to the eighteenth session of Unesco's General Conference, the greetings and good wishes of  his Majesty King Faisal, his Government and people, for your continued success fn consolidating the voca-  tion of this great international institution; which fe seen a8 one of the major bastions for preserving world  peace and maintaining its scientific and cultural pillars within its holleat of citadels - the minds of men,  Huge are the duties facing us, ladies and gentlemen, as we ait in such meetings representing our peace-  seeking nations. They match the immense responsibilities faced by the civilized world in preserving its  sacred values and even in preserving humanity itself. Yes, preserving humanity itself. For Man in this  age is being threatened with the criellest meana of destruction that were ever devised. Yet through this  institutiqn, in which we gathar to plan hopefully for ita lag future life, we could constructively participate  in preventing the menace loomirg over the fate of markind,
(19.2) Madam President, I would like to convey to ou, on behalf of the delegation of Saudi Arabia, our  warmest congratulations on your election as presi/ent of this eighteenth seasion of the General Cuaference.  You are worthy of the confidence placed in you by the delegations, because you have the knowladge and ex-  perience needed to fulfil your duties in a manner worthy of appreciation, I would also like to take this op-  portunity to express my appreciation to the former president for the efforts he made in presiding over the  previous session,
(19.3) flow me now, ladica and gentlemen, to take a few moments of your preclous time to express brief-  ly, on behalf of the delegation of Saudi Arabia and myself, our gratitude and appreciation to the Director-  General of Unesco, Mr, René Maheu, on the occasion of his retiring from his present post in this Organiza-  tion. It fe a tribute paid to his prominent rôle in managing this great institution for several years.  Throughout these years, Mr, Meheu has been an enlightened captain who demonstrated ingenuity and stead-  fastness, allying himaelf with fustice, and defending the noble human values represented by this Institution,  He offered Unesco his life, intellect, love and loyalty, His term of office wae, therefore, full of constant  {innovative action, None of the Third World countries in general, and of those which joined Unesco during  his mandate tn particular, can forgetthe enlightened efforts he devoted to them. Mr, Maheu supported  their causes, whether intellgctual, cultural or material, and did much for them. As far as the Arab coun-  tries are concerned, they vill remember above all his stand fn support of the lscues which concerned them,  a sland that led him to crown tis outstanding deeds with the introduction of Arabic, the language of the  Koran, the language of Islam and peace, in the halls of this institution. So, from the depths of our hearts,  we wleh him à long and happy life fn the service of all mankind.
(19,4), It also glves me the greatest pleasure, ladies and gentlemen, to welcome on behalf of the delegation  of Saudi Arabia the nomination of Mr. Amadou Mahtar M'Bow for the post of Director-Generat of Unesco,  The teacher's persorality with which he étarted life came to maturity and confirmed him In the field of edu-  cation as an ideal teacher who wholehcartedly cherishes learning and seeke to disseminate jt, not only in  his own country, but aleo in many others, Thus he became an {nternational personality and his relationship  with world communities became an active factor in his understanding of the problems facing the world, His  thorough understanding of educational, scientific and cultural problems, with which he lived and is still Uv-  ing, brought hini to realize that reaching speedy solutions for these problems would enhance world under-
448   standing and would, consequently, offer a decent life to mankind, for whose sake the world's thinkérs and  reformers - and we have a distinguished number of them {n our Organization + seek to create a favourable  atmosphere characterized by friendship, love and peace, ‘In supporting the nomination of Mr, M'Bow to  succeed Mr. Maheu, the delegation of Saudi Arabla 18 therefore supporting the succession of a great teach-  er to the place of another, Since our Arable saying commends "giving the bow to {ts master’ - which means  putting the right man in the right place - it is a good omen for our Organization that this saying has been  equally true for both Mr. Maheu and Mr, M'Bow, the latter being ideally suited to succeed his distinguieh-  ed predecessor. Iam sure that for these reasons, his nomination will meet unanimous approval from all  the delegations taking part fn thie Conference,
(19.5) Our delegation fully supports and welcomes the draft programme and budget for 1975-1976," Parti-  cularly so, because of its comprehensiveness and clarity, which have made of it an integrated compendium  of the ideas expressed at previous sessions of the Conference, as well as meetings and seminars held In  Member States, and of the concepts advocated by specialiste in various fields, It 18 our pleasure to refer,  more especially, to the general principles and bases upon which the draft programme and budget was elab-  orated and which were the object of studies and resçarch during past years. We single out the emphasis  on the democratization and regeneration of education as well es the adoption of the principle of lifelong edu-  cation which finds enduring support in our Islamic culture, As'prevlously mentioned by H, E, the Libyan  Arab Republic's Minister of Education, Islam urges us to seek learning from the cradle to the grave, In  this respect, we consider that Unesco should intensify its efforts to analyse and disseminate the most im-  portant educational experiments in this field, aiming at making them available to asafst Third World  countries in their persistent drive to improve their educational methods.
(19.6) The gap between the advanced and developing nations ie getting wider day by day, This applies to  various aspects of the programmes concerned with the development of sclence and technology and assisting  Member States fn harnessing science and technology for their own development, especially in regard to  {ndustrialization and the moddrnization of industry. The developing countries, and especially our ofl-  producing Arab countries, are exerting continuous efforts to develop and modernize {ndustry, They have  an ever-growing need for scientific support from international experience. There 18 no doubt that Unesco's  concern with these aspects has our full support, It is relevant to refer here to the Conference of Islamic  Engineers to which the Faculty of Engineering at Riyad University has invited a number of engineers and  technologists from Islamic couitries. They are to get together, under the auspices of Riyad University,’  to discuss means of develcping scientific and technfcal studies in thefr respective countries, and to famil-  larize themselves with advanced methods and techniques capable of improving our industrial fnstitutions.  This Conference will most certainly benefit from Unesco's achievements. Similarly, the conference on  the education of engineers and technologists to be held by Unesco in 1976 could usefully draw on the conclu-  sions of the Riyad University Conference. The Conference of Ministers of Arab States Responsible for the  Application of Science and Technology to Development, to be held in 1976 under the auspices of Unesco,  will certafnly play a mnjor rôle in developing scientific and technological research in our countries, It will  constitute an extension to the Conference of Ministers of Arab States Responsible for Scientific Research,  which was held in Baghdad at the beginning of 1974 under the auspices of the Arab Educational, Cultural and  Scientific Organization.
(19.7) Madam President, While we are considering the major principles and bases upon which we have  formulated the programme and budget, I would like to comment on one of the prime agpects of the work we  have set ouraelves to establish world peace, as a matter of utmost priority among the objectives of our  Organization. The principle of equality of educational opportunity involves two major aspects of world-  wide significance, one of which 18 of special Importance to the Arab world, namely, the cause af the people  of Palestine, whose representatives were yesterday warmly welcomed at this distinguished Conference. I  will not touch on the political aide of this cause, as this fe not the appropriate platform for doing eo, But  educational and human aspects are, indeed, at the core of the work of this Conference, The world bears a  grave responsibility for having the righta of the Palestinian people restored to them and “éondemning the  aggression inflicted upon them. They are entitled to see us come to their rescue (rom the elaws of Zionist  usurping colorialism which crushed thera while relentlesaly using the force of iron and fire - a policy simi-  lar to that pursued by the usurping colonlallem In Rhodeala and South Africa - to disfigure and obliterate  the genuine culture, values and legacy of the Palestinian people,
(19,8) The second major aspect of the principle of equality of educational opportunity, which related to re-  ducing the gap in education between men and women, also deserves our full support, Fourtéen centuries  ago our Prophet Mohamed, may peace and prayere be bestowed upon him, taught us that seeking learning
1s the duty of every Moslem, male or female, It should be noted that the number of female students now  enrolled in Saudi Arabian universities ard higher institutes is increasing steadily. Medical studies within  the Kingdom have become available to Saudi women at the faculty of medicine, Riyad University, in addi-  tion to the fellowships offered by the Government to young women studying medicine abroad,
(19.9) Madam President, the fast pace of change occurring in the field of sclence and technology compels  the educational systems in the world to draw continuously upon these advanced methods,’ fn order to bring  the process of education to perfection, In this respect, it fe my pleasure to commend the Unesco projects  contained in the present programme and budget to assist Member States through the colléction and dlssemi-  nation of information on advanced techniques and new educational methods, in co-operation with dclentifte  and professional organizations. This information will provide us, the members of the Third World, with  valid means to fraprove the standards of education and training in our countries. I would like to mention  here the projects under study by the Saudi Ministry of Education with a view to introducing educational tele-  vinton and other modern methods In vur educational institutions, Thie study is now we}l advanced and we  hope to add to it whatever new elements Unesco may send us in this fleld. Reference should be made here  to the commendable efforts underiaken by Uneaco in the flelds of educations] research and mddernization  of educational curricula and textbooks, Because of their welt-vstablished éclentifié capabilities, advanced  countries have achieved considerable progress in the field of ecucational research, so much so that their  educational curricula and textbooks are now geared to the conclusions drawn from well-founded educational  field rescarch. But since our developing countries still lack highly qualified educational specialists, we  certainly welcome Unesco projects aimed at sending teams of experts to nasiet our cecntries in improving  this crucial sector. We have been working lately, in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, on developing education-  al research {id bullding up centres of excellence, alongside our constant conéern with teacher training,  especially in fields where teachers are rare, auch as mathematics, science and foréign languages. Oir  efforts tn this respect are promising,
(19.10) Madam President, in conclusion it is my pleasure to draw your attention to the substantial educa-  tional developments that have taken place in the Kingdom in recent years, thanks to the sincere efforts  exerted by its Government, Education has reached the Kingdom's most inaccessible areas. It has found  ite way to the high peaks of the Assir mountains, to the Kingdom's steepest ravines and remotest deserts.  As for higher education, the Kingdom's five universities are witnessing continuous and considerable expan.  sion, both quantitatively and qualitatively, Finally, I would like to thank you all for your attention and I  wish you every success In the discharge of jour duties, May peace and the blessing of God be upon you,
20, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the head of the delegation of Saudi Arabia, The next speaker is Mr, Braconnier, the  representative of the International Federation of Free Teachera' Unions.
21,1 M, BRACONIER (secrétaire général du Secrétariat professionnel international de  l'enseignement). -  Madame la Présidente, Monsieur le Directeur général, Mesdames, Messieurs, je me réjouis  de pouvoir exprimer à cette tribune l'estime et l'admiration que porte à l'Unesco le Secrétariat  professionnel international de l'enseignement, Nous estimons que cette haute institution - en rai-  son de sa finalité, de l'essence de ses activités, de l'ampleur et de la solidité de ses structures -  peut être considérée comme le lieu privilégié où se concentrent les efforts entrepris pour le déve-  loppement de l'éducation, de la formation, de la recherche scientifique et de la culture au profit  de l'ensemble des travailleurs.
21.2 Jamais encore les regards de nos innombrables collègues de l'enseignement ne s'étaient,  Mesdames et Messieurs, portés avec autant d'attention sur votre haute organisation, et jamais  nos camarades enseignants n'avaient aussi anxieusement attendu les résultats d'une session de  votre Conférence générale. Face à un monde qui semble s'abîmer dans le désarroi spirituel, éco-  nomique, social et politique, où le sens de la dignité humaine est, surtout chez les jeunes, sans  cesse en butte aux plus avilissants et aux plus déconcertants des défis, l'Unesco se présente pour  nous, enseignants organisés, comme un de ces très hauts lieux de la pensée et de l'action dans  lesquels l'humanité tout entière met son espoir.
21.3 Les objectifs de l'Unesco sont inscrits de longue date au programme syndical. Depuis des  décennies, notre Internationale revendique, en effet, en matière d'éducation, l'instauration d'une  politique hardie, résolue, adaptée aux nécessités contemporaines, Toutes nos résolutions sont  orientées vers les buts suivants :  - une authentique et profonde démocratisation de tout l'appareil d'éducation et de formation,  qui doit être intégralement ouvert à tous, grâce à l'effort financier de tous (ceite démocratisation  devant donner à chacun les mêmes chances d'épanouissement personnel, sans discrimination  d'aucune sorte) ;  - une adaptation permanente des programmes et méthodes d'éducation et de formation ; un  développement judicieux des réseaux d'enseignement, développement qui doit se faire en fonction  de l'évolution de la science, de la technologie et de l'emploi, de telle sorte que le développement  social et économique soit sans cesse porté au niveau qu'exigent les besoins matériels et moraux  d'une humanité en expansion démographique accélérée.
21,4 Aussi est-il permis de dire que l'action intergouvernementale ne saurait éternellement se  poursuivre sans participation syndicale organisée, En matière d'éducation, de formation et de  culture, la préparation et l'exécution de plans de grande ampleur présentent un intérêt exception-  nel pour l'avenir du monde du travail tout entier, Aussi demandons-nous que les organisations  syndicales leur soient plus étroitement et plus systématiquement associées. Le monde syndical  n'est pas une organisation non gouvernementale comme les autres, Les graves problèmes actuels  ne pourront être résolus sans un dialogue permanent entre les instances intergouvernementales et  le monde syndical dans son ensemble,
21,5 Le problème qui doit avoir aujourd'hui une priorité absolue eat celui de l'interdépendance de  l'éducation et de l'emploi. La complexité de ce problème, qui appelle des solutions à long terme  d'une importance vitale pour l'ensemble des travailleurs, explique la crainte qu'a le syndicalisme  libre de voir les objectifs spécifiquement humanistes du programme éducatif de rénovation et d'in-  novation remis gravement en cause par les exigences de la production. C'est le rôle des travail-  leurs Yibrement organisés, de tous les travailleurs, enseignants compris, d'être présents, À tous  les niveaux, afin que le choix des grandes lignes d'expansion se fasse en fonction d'objectifs collec-  tifs et nocfaux.
21,6 L'éducétion telle qu'elle se présente actuellement est en crise, Non qu'elle soit impulesante  À assur àr ln formation de gens suffisamment qualifiés, mais parce qu'elle ne répond pas À ce qui  doit eli à sa mission fondamentale. Les carences du système éducatif s'accentuent d'ailleurs en  raison 4è la crise qui sévit dans le domaine du travail, où se posent des problèmes de gestion et  d'organisation que l'on n'arrive pas À rôsoudre.
21,7 Malgré leur 6vidente complémentarité, les domaines de l'emploi et de l'enseignement ont  coexisté éans que des liens pormanents et solides s'établissent entre eux Pour l'élaboration et la  réal{eätion d'wie véritable politique commune des "ressources humaines". L'avenir dé la société  modérno reposd donc en grande partie sur la façon dont on saura établir, entre le domaine de l'em-  plot et celui de l'éducation; les liens et Jes concertations nécessaires.
21,8 Nous sommes ici en présence d'un problème global, à la solution duquel doivent pouvoir par-  ticiper activement le monde syndical et tout l'ensemble des travailleurs dont les enseignante,
21,9 Nous revendiquons le droit à l'éducation permanente comme nous revendiquons le droit au  travail. Le problème de l'éducation permanente est d'une importante exceptionnelle et nous  sommes aux côtés de l'Unesco pour défendre la véritable finalité de l'éducation permanente, à  savoir l'épanouissement optimal de l'homme dans la sociét&, Maif nous sommes convainçus que  l'éducation permanente demandera du temps, qu'elle devra s'accornpagner d'une élévation du ni-  veau de vie, qu'elle ne pourra en aucun cas être à la charge de l'individu, Il y a des réformes  qui s'imposent sur le plan social, mais nous avons aussi une tâche importante à accomplir pour  mettre au point cette éducation, qui devra donner lieu À des activités très diversifiées quant à  leur nature, à leur niveau et à leur organisation, en même temps qu'elle devra bénéficier de  méthodes pédagogiques et de moyens techniques bien adaptés à leurs fins ainsi que d'un person-  nel qualifié.
21.10 Il importe donc que les travailleurs organisés soient plus étroitement associés à la défini -  tion des politiques A adopter dans le domaine de l'éducation permanente,
21,11 Enfin, comment pourrions-nous méconnattre le problème de l'éducation dans les pays en  voie de développement ? La puissance des aspirations du néo-colonialisme économique ne doit  pas non plus être sous-estimée. Dans les pays en voie de développement plus encore que dans  les pays industrialisés, les intérêts de la production et du capital risquent de prévaloir sur les  intérêts purement humains quand il s'agit de concevoir ou de mettre en oeuvre des politiques  d'éducation. Il nous appartient de faire en sorte que, dans tous les pays, le développement socio-  économique général soit le fruit d'un développement éducatif, massif, démocratique, accéléré au  meximum par la mise en oeuvre des méthodes et des techniques pédagogiques les plus modernes.  Le syndicalisme libre met tout en oeuvre pour promouvoir le développement de l'alphabétisation,  de l'éducation et de la formation dans les pays déshérités, Il s'agit 14 d'un devoir de justice so-  clale universelle, qui apparaît aujourd'hui comme étant d'une importance primordiale pour 1'éman-  cipation d'immenses masses humaines abandonnées A l'ignorance, à la maladie et à la faim.
21,12 Le problème du développement dépasse, certes, en gravité tous les autres problèmes. Pour  le résoudre, l'action intergouvernementale est nettement insuffisante. Sans une concertation va-  lable avec l'ensemble des travailleurs, il n'y a pas de salut possible,
21,1% C'est l'Éducation dans tout son ensemble qui se trouve au centre de nos préoccupations, Si  nous accordons tant d'importance À la période de la première enfance et à celle de la scolarité  obligatoire, c'est parce que nous souhaitons que tous les individus puissent, en dépit des inégalités  qui les séparent au départ, se voir donner les mêmes moyens de développer leurs aptitudes et  leurs dons.
21,14 En accordant tout notre intérêt à l'enseignement supérieur et à la recherche scientifique,  nous entendons voir se développer, par ailleurs, une politique plus audacieuse répondant À un fais-  ceau complexe d'exigences nouvelles et impérieuses : nécessité de développer les inetitutions, d'as-  surer un statut moral et matériel décent aux chercheurs qualifiés, nécessité générale enfin d'abais-  ser toutes les barrières sociales, économiques, psychologiques qui entravent encore l'accés à  l'enseignement supérieur et à la recherche et les font trop souvent apparaître comme les domaines  d'une catégorie privilégië.
21.15 Nous appuyons l'ensemble du programme de l'Unesco. Mais permettez que nous insistions  enfin pour que tout, vraiment tout, soit mis en oeuvre en faveur des plus déshérités, À savoir les  handicapés, Il s'agit là d'un vaste programme social, qui doit être réalisé en coopération plus  &troite avec les travailleurs organisés.
21,16 Nous somries à vos côtés pour promouvoir l'éducation en vie d'assurer finalement plus de  bien-être dans le monde, c'est-à-dire plus de progrès À tous les égards, plus de bonheur pour tous,  plus de respect pour toutes les libertés et tous les droits des travailleurs, plus de fraternité enfin  entre tous ‘es hommes sans discrimination d'aucune sorte, et nous nous prometions de renforcer  encore cette coopération, avec l'espoir qu'elle sera toujours mieux appréciée et encouragée nu ni-  veau de cette haute Organisation. Avant tout, nous souhaitons, et c'est l'essentiel de mon propos,  que la profession enscignante bénéficie enfin du droit statutaire de participer organiquement, à  part entière et de manière responsable, À la rénovation du système éducatif dans son ensemble.  Dans trop de pays - dont des pays hautement industrialisés et jouissant cependant d'une réputation  démocratique solidement établie - les droits élémentaires des travailleurs no sont accordés qu'à  regret, quand ils ne sont pas ouvertement refusés, À la profession enseignante. Comment expli-  quer que, malgré l'existence de tous les instruments internationaux déjà adoptés en la matière, on  en soit encore À refuser aux enseignants - de facto sino de jure - le droit de participation ? Où  en est, en particulier, l'application de la recommandation concernant la condition du personnel en-  selgnant qui, préparée sur l'initiative de l'OIT et de l‘Unesco, a été, dbs 1966, adoptée A l'unani-  rmité par la Conférence intergouvernementale spéciale sur la condition du pérsonnel enseignant ?  Un des principes de base de cet instrument capital - que nous avons nommé, À juste titre, la pre-  mière charte internationale de la profession enseignante - est précisément la participation de l'en-  seignant A la gestion de son domaine, Non seulement cette recommandation intergouvernementale  est ignorée, mais encore les enseignants ne bénéficient pas encore pléinement des dispositions des
7 conventions internationales destinées A garantir les droits fondamentaux des travailleurs - droit  d'association, droit d'organisation et droit de n&gociation collective, Nous denonçons pareille  attitude négative comme triatement révélatrice d'un Incroyable aveuglement à l'égard de la raison  d'être du syndicalisme; de sa force acquise et de sa capacité dé participer dé manière Immédiate  et responsable à la conquête des objectifs de progrès économique, social et culturel, La prise en  considération, directe et permanente, de la compétente professionnelle des enseignants dansla vaste  réforme des structures, devenue indispensable dans toute 1'économié du système éducatif, a été  soulignée dansl'importante recommandation de 1966. Nous insistons avec forco auprès des deux  grandes organisations intergouvernementales intéressbes pour qu'elles rappellent fermement à  leur devoir les Etats et pour qu'elles associent le plus étroitement possible les syndicats d'ensel-  gnants au contrôle des mesures d'application. Aux représentants gouvernementaux ici présents,  j'adresse un pressant appel pour que cette recommandation, adoptée dans cette enceinte, se tra-  duise enfin contrètement dans les textes législatifs et règlementaires régissant les conditions du  personnel de l'éducation dans chaque pays.
21.17 Permettez-moi de vous dire que les temps sont révolus où la profession et la condition en-  seignantes, encore inorganisées il y a cinquante ans, subissaient passivement de la part des pou-  voirs organisateurs les effets d'une attitude qui, par certains traits, évoquait la condition servile  - tout au moins de principe - du pédagogue antique, Les enseignants d'aujourd'hui, du moins ceux  qui sont librement regroupés, ont accédé à la conscience qu'ils sont des travailleurs comme les  autres, engagés dans ce service public qu'est incontestablement devenu l'enseignement.
21.18 À ce titre de travailleurs publics, il est normal, indispensable et équitable que, comme  tous les travailleurs organisés, 1ls revendiquent le droit de participer à part entière A l'élabora-  tion des plans de rénovation profonde du système éducatif, à celle des programmes d'application  pédagogique quotidienne, comme A la modification statutatre de leurs conditions de travail qui doit  en tire la conséquence logique, Il ne s'agit pas seulement de leur domaine professionnel : la gra-  vité, la complexité, le gigantisme de toutes les questions qu'il faut résoudre àlongterme, imposeént  aux responsables officiels la participation permanente de professionnels compétents, et cette par-  ticipation ne peut se réaliser que par le truchement d'organisations syndicales largement reprê-  sentatives.
21.19 Nous adjurons par ailleurs l'Unesco de inobiliser toute son influence, toute sa puissance  d'impact pour qu'un effort soit fait en vue de la revalorisation, totale et urgente, de la condition  enseignante, Nous ne ferons pas ici 1'énumération de nos désillusions, Qu'il me soit pourtant  permis de vous dire que nous sommes las de cette politique que l'on voit pratiquer dans nombre  de pays, politique tout entière faite d'affirmations verbales que rien ne vient concrétiser, 1 est  temps que le personnel enseignant obtienne un statut décent. Comment attirer dans notre carrière  les meilleurs des intellectuels tant que l'on maintiendra cet état d'infériorité sociale dans lequel,  contre toute justice, contre tout bon sens, se trouve relégué le travailleur enseignant ? Comment  rendre la foi aux enseignants si l'on persiste à les considérer comme de "purs esprits” ? Les  meilleurs des intellectuels viendraient plus sûrement à nous si les carrières de l'énselgnement  leur offratent plus d'avantages, notamment par le jeu d'un statut adéquat et vraiment démocratique.
21,20 Aussi gouhaitons-nous que l'Unesco poursuive sans relâche la tâche importante qui lui in-  combe en ce domaine, qu'elle la poursulve au rythme requis par la dimension, la complexité et  l'urgence des problèmes relatifs aux conditions de travail des enseignants, Ce qui est à considérer  c'est la conception nouvelle de la fonction enseignante, compte tenu de la nécessité absolue de ré-  nover, dans tous les pays, des systèmes éducatifs surannés qui ne sont plus à même de répondre  aux exigences de l'avenir.
21,21 Nous nous félicitons du fait que le Bureau international d'éducation nous associe À 1a prépa-  ration de la prochaine Conférence internationale de l'éducation, qui aura pour thème l'évolution du  rôle des maîtres. Nous souhaitons vivement que les débats donnent leu à des concluslons suivies  d'effets pratiques et immédiate : des effets immédiats, compte tenu de l'évolution des responsabi-  lités en matière d'éducation, de formation, d'apprentiseage, comme en matitre d'autres activités  éducatives de pointe désormais à l'ordre du jour ; des effets immédiats, compte tenu de la promo-  tion urgente du travail enseignant ; des effets immédiats, compte tenu de l'indispensable rénova-  tion de la formation des maîtres, sclon des normes adaptées à moyen et à long terme,
21,22 Je terminerat en remerciant l'Unesco pour tout ce que lui doit déjà la profession ensel-  gnante, en lui renouvelant la confiance de notre Intérnationale, en la pressant aussi, au nom de  toutes nos organisatfons, mondialement solidarisées, d'exercer une souveraine vigilance afin que  les recommandations de caractère éducatif dont elle est A la fois l'Inspiratrice et la créatrice con-  naissént réclleinent, dans tous les pays du monde, l'application que méritent ces instruments in-  ternationaux.
21.23 Enfin, il faut que vous sachiez aussi que c'eat du plus profond d'elle-même que chacune de  nos orgenisations participe chaque jour à la croisade historique de l'Unesco pour l'établissement  de la paix universelle, pour qu'il soft mis fin aux fléaux morlels qui menacent encore l'humanité :  le recours aux armes pour liquider les différends, toutes les formes de violence, le racisme sous  tous ses aspects, 1'impérialfsme économique, la dictature sous toutes ses formes, te mépris des  droita de l'homme, enfin la pollution de la biosphère et 1a pollution interne des individus par les  drogues st les stupéfiants, double conséquence désastreuse de l'irresponsabilité de la surpuissance  économique qui domine le monde actuel.
21,24 En conclusion, c'est dans l'oeuvre de paix, de progrès, de justice pour chaque homme et  pour chaque peuple, que nous, enselgnants, librement, démocratiquement et mondialement organi-  sés, nous communions, par la pensée et surtout par l'action, aux idéaux fondamentaux de l'Unesco.  Je vous remercie de votre attention.
22, The PRESIDENT: :  I thank the representative of the International Federation of Free Teachers! Unions, and ! give  the floor to Mr, E. Lange, the representative of the World Federation of Trade Unions,
23.1 M, LANGE (Fédération syndicale mondiale). -  Madame la Présidente, Mesdames, Messieurs, je voudrais, en présentant à la Conférence  générale la déclaration de la Fédération syndicale mondiale - dont le texte a été remis aux délé-  gations - en souligner les points essentiels pour montrer quelle est la position de la FSM à l'égard  des divers aspects de l'activité de l'Unesco.
23.2 Chacun ici sait tout ce que la FSM a fait pour faciliter l'accès à l'indépendance des pays colo-  nisés par le Portugal, Ja lutte de ces peuples opprimés a remporté un succès retentissant qui  permet à la République de Guinée-Bissau d'être aujourd'hui admise à l'Unesco, Nous souhaitons  vivement que l'Organisation puisse accueillir prochainement les représentants authentiques des  peuples du Mozambique et de l'Angola. L'intervention du représentant du Portugal démocratique  nous donne l'espoir que tout va maintenant être fait pour que ce souhait devienne réalité.
23,3 La FSM, qui a toujours combattu pour l'universalité de l'Unesco, tient à exprimer la vive  satisfaction qu'elle éprouve A voir des représentants de l'Organisation pour la libération de la  Paléstine participer pour la première fois aux travaux de la Conférence générale. Elle se félicite  également de ce que la Conférence générale ait, en cette dix-huitième session, approuvé les réso-  lutions du Conseil exécutif sur l'admission à l'Unesco de la République populaire démocratique de  Corée,
23.4 Madame la Présidente, de grands changements d'une grande portée internationale sont inter-  venus ces dernières années dans le monde, changements parmi lesquels il faut d'abord citer ceux  qui ont largement contribué à la détente, à une meilleure application des principes de la coexis-  tence pacifique entre pays à systèmes économiques et sociaux différents et à l'amélioration radi -  cale des relations internationales.
23.5 La FSM apprécie aussi beaucoup les efforts qui ont êté faits, avec des résultats non négli-  geables, dans le domaine de la coopération internationale. La récente sixième session extraordi-  naire de l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies, qui a eu pour thème les matières premières et  le développement, témoigne de façon convaincante de ces irréversibles changements,
23.6 La FSM note avec satisfaction que la Conférence générale a ontropris d'examiner les voies  et moyens par lesquels l'Unesco pourrait, dans les domaines de sa compétence, contribuer à l'ins-  tauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international, La Déclaration sur l'établissement d'unnou-  vel ordre économique international et le Programme d'action correspondant peuvent, tels qu'ils  ont été adoptés lors de la sixième session extraordinaire de l'Assemblée générale des Nations  Unies, constituer le point de départ d'une nouvelle étape dans la lutte des pays du Tiers Monde  pour un développement économique indépendant, En effet, les divers chapitres du Programme  d'action - notamment ceux qui ont trait à l'industrialisation et au transfert des techniques - oxigent  que l'Unesco se préoccupe de donner un caractère plus spécifique à son irremplaçable contribution.  Les domaînes dans lesquels devrait plus particulièrement s'exercer son action sont ceux de l'édu-  cation générale et permanente, de la formation, de l'alphabétisation, de l'accès des travailleurs  à la culture, de la protection des droits de l'homme et de l'élimination des discriminations de toute  sorte.
23.7 Nous considérons qu'il faut tout mettre en oeuvre pour que les pays producteurs de matibres  premières soient maîtres de leurs richesses, Mais cela ne suffit pas. Ce qu'il faut, c'est donner  À ces pays tous les moyens poseibles de transformer leurs matières premières, En vue de l'in-  dustrialisation que cela exige, il faut dds maintenant prendre les mesures qui s'imposent pour  former les cadres ot les ouvriers indispensables A cette nouvelle étape du développement, Dans  ce domaine, l'Unesco a un rote irremplaçable A jouer.
23.8 Nous espérons que la Conférence générale saura mettre l'Unesco en mesure de contribuer  très largement à l'application des dispositionn qui figurent dans la Déclaration et le Programme  d'action que je viens de mentionner.
23.9 Madame la Présidente, 11 cst évident que, tant sur le plan national que sur le plan régional  ou international, le mouvement syndical joue aujourd'hui un rôlo grandiseant. C'est pourquoi les  Nations Uniea et ses institutions spécialisées prennent do plus en plun conscience de la nécessité  d'associer davantage ce mouvement à leurs programmes, Malheureusernent, les déclacations  restent encore trop souvent dans le domaine des intentions et ne débouchent pan sur des réalités  concrètes, Dans do nombreux pays, les organisations internationales non gouvernementales no  sont pas aufffsamment associées aux travaux des Commissions nationales pour l'Unesco. Certes,  le Secrétariat de l'Unesco a redoublé d'efforts pour que sa modifie cet état de fait qui va A l'en-  contre dès aspirations de la majorité de la population, mais les résultats en sont encore insuffi-
17 sants. La FSM estime que les organisations syndicales, A l'échelon natfonal d'abord mais aussi  aux échelons régional et international, devralent avoir la possibilité de participer aux prises de  décision et it l'élaboration des programmes, ainsi que de bénéficier d'une aide plus efficace pour  leur mise en application, Un climat nouveau serait ainsi créé, qui rendrait plus directes et effec-  tives les activités de l'Unesco au sein des populations laborieuses, et celles-ci ge sentiraient véri-  tablement partie prenante. De plus, 1a FSM souhaiterait que des membres des organisallons ayn-  dicales représentatives fassent partie des délégations des Etats aux conférences, généraies et par.  ticulières, auxquelles ils portent intérêt, afin d'y faire entendre la voix des travailleurs manuels  et intellectuels et de formuler des propositions concrètes conformes à 1'intérti de leurs mandats,  La Conférence générale, en prenant une résolution allant dans ce sens et motivée par les'exemples  concrets obtenus par la coopération Unesco/syndicats, contribuerait à un renforcement des liai-  sons avec les Commissions nationales, notamment dans les domaines de l'alphabëtisation, de  l'éducation permanente, de l'éducation des adultes, de la formation des téchniciens, cadres et in-  génieurs, de la jeunesse, de la promotion de la femme, de la lutte contre l'apartheid, le racisme  et le colonialisme, de la lutte pour la paix, etc,
23.10 Conformément à l'esprit de ses statuts, l'Unesco devrait s'ingénier à défendre 1 ‘8 droits  de l'homme partout où 11s sont menacés ou foulés aux pieds par les forces réactionnaires. Nous  pensons en particulier aux sociétés muliinationales, qui étendent leur domination sur un nombre  sans Cesse croissant de pays des divers continentes et y sont à l'origine de la Violation des droits  de l'homme et des libertés syndicales les plus élémentaires, en menant une politique de surexploi-  tation à l'échelle internationale. Les événaments qui se déroulent depuis plus d'un an au Chili gont  une démonstration tragique, probante de l'action néfaste de ces société multinationales.
23.11 La FSM appuie Ja décision 95 EX/Déc. 10,1, qui invite le Directeur général à présenter à  la 97e session du Conseil exécutif un rapport sur l'état de l'éducation, de la science, de la culture  et de l'information au Chili, Face aux événements tragiques qui se déroulent dans ce pays, notre  organisation attend aussi de la Conférence générale qu'elle prenne position en faveur de la restau-  ration des droits de l'homme, des libertés démocratiques, syndicales et culturelles du peuple  chilien.
23.12 Nous sommes également inquiets de la situation en Uruguay, L'application d'une loi ant{-  populaire sur l'enseignement, votée en 1973 aprés le coup d'État du 27 juin, a été suivie d'une  vague de répression contre les étudiants et le personnel enseignant et administratif : des ensei-  gnants ont été licenciés, d'autres arrêtés ; les programmes d'Études ont Été ramenés à ce qu'ils  étaient dans les années 1945-1950 (y compris ceux qui avaient été élaborés en collaboration avec  les organismes internationaux tels que la FAO). La FSM est en possession d'autres informations  qui constituent de lourdes accusations pour un régime responsable de ces actes arbitraires et  grossiers,
23,13 Madame la Présidente, nous souhaftons que la présente session de la Conférence générale  marque un progrès dans la réslisation des nobles buts que l'Unesco s'est fixés dans son Acte cons-  titutif, et qui sont conformes aux intérêts de tous les travailleurs de tous les péuples. Merci,  Madame la Préaidente,
24, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I now give the floor to the last speaker, Mr, Stanley Willlam, the representative  of the World Fellowship of Buddhists,
25,1 Mr, WILLIAM (World Fellowship of Buddhists):  Madam Preaident, distinguished delegates and observers, let me first express my thanks to  you for providing me with the opportunity to address this session on behalf of the World Fellowship  of Buddhists, which I represent here today. As you all perhaps know, the Fellowship fs the only  Buddhist International organization that has been so far admitted to Unesco à6 a non-governmental  organization. As such we have a grave responsibility to communicate to you in what ways we have  already made In the past, and sincerely hope to make in the near future, à contribution to achieve  the peace-promoting objectives of Unesco, All that we do fn order to promote the study, interpré-  tation, application, and propagation of the teachings of the Lord Buddha and the culture resulting  therefrom in socially relevant and meaningful terms will eventually lead to justice, development  and peace,
25.2 A) our activities therefore are expected to help people to build defences of peace In their  own minds, This we do particularly because we are convinced that human problems cannot be  solved only by changing the social structures of the “goclosphere"., We have alao to change the  mental structure of our ""peychosphere' along with the transformation of the social structures,  Such an approach will guide mankind to evolve a simple non-violent style of life based on the Mid-  dle Path contained in the teachings of the Lord Buddha, and successfully tried out in our Buddhist  countries in the past,
256.3 In order to make our activities directly related to the objectives of Unesco, we have formed  a special standing committee to {nitlate, sponsor, and implement projects that are within the  Unesco field of activities En education, aclence, culture and communication, We have already  formulated a list of over twenty projects out of which five have been selected as priority projects  for the next few years, to be implemented with your guidance and assistance. They are as follows:
(1) a conference on Buddhist cultural policy; (2) a conference on Buddhist education; (3) a Buddhist  international library; (4) a study of Uneaco's education report on "Learning to Be' from a Buddhist  perspective; (5) youth leadership training course for Unesco activities, A full list of all our pro-  posed projects will be submitted to you in due course for your sympathetic consideration, We  Buddhists believe, and I am sure most non-Buddhists do not deny, that the teachings of the Buddha  have had a peace-promoting, life-moderating, and culture-enriching impact on the individuals and  socfetfes that came in direct contact with these teachings,
25.4 The history of Buddhism clearly indicates that the teachings of the Lord Buddha effectively  build defences of peace in the minds of men, Ever-increasing numbers of knowledgeable persons  from all parts of the world, irrespective of the religions they follow, are now proclaimiag thig of-  fectiveness of the teachings of the Buddha to promote peace of mind to thelr followers. The system  of mental culture called meditation, containing this teaching, is becoming increasingly popular even  among youth, We also believe that what we now call Buddhist culture is a direct outcome of an edu-  cation based on the teachings of the Buddha in the past, That {8 what we now call Buddhist educa-  tion, We are convinced that most of these teachings, if adequately made known throughout the  world, can provide mankind with a great deal of insight, knowledge, values and skills appropriate  to this scientific global society. We are also quite sure from our own day-to-day experience that  these teachings can help us evolve the new style of life that the whole world is now searching for.  As far as individuals are concerned, some of these teachinga can effectively help us to promote our  own peace of mind, In regard to science too, {it is high time that we obtain guidance from the  Buddha and humanize science before science animalizes rnan and lead him to destroy himself, not  knowing how to use the weapons made by scientific knowledge,
25.5 These teachings of the Buddha, and the culture resulting therefrom, are part and parcel of  the universal human culture which Is therefore a common heritage of all people. Everyone should  have access to this, particularly because it {8 believed to have promoted peace in the past and be-  cause such effective ways of promoting peace were never wanted s0 much as today. There appears  to be a consensus of opinion that the human race cannot exist on this planet earth at the pace we are  now developing, and unless a new style of life or a new quality of life fs adopted, particularly by  people fn the affluent countries. On the other hand, the Third World fs compelled to pursue a  policy of unlimited economie growth following the lead previded by the West and the standard set  before the developing world by the leaders of the developed world. The United Nations World Con-  ference on the Human Environment, held in Stockholm and the good debate that followed, have pra-  vided adequate and convincing evidence to change our attitude towards economic development which  ignores completely the cultural and spiritual aspects of mankind. The only solution appears to be  a middle-path approach to development which wiil promote an all-round integrated development of  the whole personality and of the whole man, We fn the World Fellowship are ever ready to co-  operate with Unesco in promoting this new way and style of life by providing the spiritual and cul-  tural resources that we have {nherited from our ancestors.
25,6 Madam President, all that we call Buddhism, Buddhist civilization, Buddhist culture, Bud-  dhist education and Buddhist philosophy, etc. - are the results of the Middle Path way of life or the  Noble Eightfold Path, discovered, demonstrated, and proclaimed by Siddhartha Gautama, the Buddha,  After serving mankind for forty-five years, he passed away 2, 518 years ago, We Buddhists cele-  brated this event in the year 1956 calling it the Buddha Jayanti, Buddha was eighty years old when  he passed away.
25.7 Therefore the twenty-atxth Birth Centenary of Prince Siddhartha (the Buddha to be) - falls on  the Wesak Full Moon Day In the year 1976. Thanks to the foresight and the wisdom of Unesco, birth  centenarfes of great personalities who have left a significant imprint on the development of hurnanity  are now celebrated as international events, often under the leadership of Unesco. On behalf of the  World Fellowship of Buddhists I appeal to you all, right-thinking people of goodwill, both Buddhists  and non-Buddhiats, and to all international organizations, both governmental and non-governmental,  to celebrate this internationally significant event of the twenty-sixth birth centenary of Prince  Siddhartha (the Buddha to be), I know that it will bring peace, prosperity and perfection te this  world of turmoil, to this world of scarcity, and to this world of imperfection,
25,8 In anticipation of this internationally significant event, and as a part of the 26th anniversary  of the World Fellowship of Buddhists, we have decided to hold a Conference on "A cultural policy  based on Buddhism" in 1975, Such a conference may help us all to decide upon some appropriate  projects for the centenary celebrations, The best way to celebrate this event te perhaps to hold an  international symposium or seminar on the rôle of Buddhism and Buddhist culture in life-long edu-  cation for development and peace and also to establieh an institute of Buddhiet educatio.i and culture  as a conatitutent of the United Nations University,
25,9 Madam President, in conclusion may I say in my own Sinhalese language, spoken In Sri  Lanka, “Ayu bovan", which means ‘May you all live long", and fn Pall, the language of early  Buddhism: "Sabec satta aukhi hontu' - "May all beings be happy". Thank you, Madam,
26,1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the representative of the World Fellowship of Buddhists,
26.2 Ladies and gentlemen, I wish now to inform you of the results of the ballot:  Group I; 6 seats to be filled, Number of Member States entitled to vote at the present session:
130; number absent: 5; number of abstentions: none; number of votes recorded: 125; num-  ber of votes constituting the majority required for election; 64. Consequently, the following  personalities have been elected in Group I: Prince Jean de Broglie (France): 124; Mr.Gunnar  Garbo (Norway); 123; Mr. Leonard C.J, Martin (United Kingdom): 117; Professor Hugh  Whitelaw Stuart Philp (Australia): 122; Mr. Gordon H, Scherer (United States of America);
110; H,E, Mr, Michel J,M, M, Gh, van Ussel (Belglum): 124,  Group IN: 2 seats to be filled, Number of Member States entitled to vote at the session: 130;  number absent: 5; number of abstentions: 6; number of fnvalid ballot papers: none; number  of votes recorded: 119; number of votes constituting the majority required for election: 61,  Consequently, the following personalities have been elected in Group II: ‘H, E, Mr, Leonid  Nikolaevich Kutakov (Soviet Union): 116; Professor Dr. Rita Schober (German Democratic  Republic): 118,  Group III: 2 seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at the session: 130;  number absent: 5; number of abstentions: none; number of invalid ballot papers: 7; number  of votes recorded: 118; number of votes constituting the majority required for election: 60,  Consequently, the following personalities have been elected in Group III: Ambassador Paulo E,  de Berrêdo Carneiro (Brazil): 88; Dr. Prof, Juan Marinello Y Vidaurreta (Cuba): 77; H.E.  Dr. Julio C. Quinta Villanueva (Nicaragua): 49 votes,  Group IV: 4 seats to be filled. Number of Member States entitled to vote at the nessfion: 130;  number absent: 5; number of abstentions: none; number of invalid ballot papers; none; num-  ber of votes recorded: 125; number of votes constituting the majority required for election:
64, Consequently, the following personalities have been elected: The Hon. Mrs, Estefanfa  Aldaba-Lim (Philippines): 118; Mr, Keitaro Hironaga (Japan): 124; H.E, Mr. Majid Rahnema  (Iran): 125; Mr, Trailokya Nath Upraity (Nepal): 123,  Group V: 6 seats to be filled, Number of Member States entitled to vote at the session: 130;  number absent: 5; number of abstentions: none; number of invalid ballot papers: none; num-  ber of votes recorded: 125; number of votes constituting the majority required for election:
64, Consequently, the following personalities have been elected: Mr, Arthur Musisi Katerega  Bagunywa (Uganda): 116; Mr, Marcel Ibinga Magwangu (Gabon): 122; Professor Joseph Ki-  Zerbo (Upper Volta); 122; Mr. Mahmoud Messadl (Tunisfa): 122; H.E, Dr, Hassan Murywid  (Syrian Arab Republic): 120; Mr, Ahmed Ould Sidi Baba {Mauritanfa): 120.
26.3 Ladtes and gentlemen, on behalf of the General Conference and on my own behalf, I wish to  congratulate warmly the eminent personalities who have just been elected members of the Executive  Board, We shall meet again on Monday at 10 a.m, The meeting {8 adjourned,  The meeting rose at 2,00 p.m,  La séance est levée à 14 h, 00  Se levanta la sesién a las 14,00
3acenanHe IAKpHBAOGTCA B 14 4.  ROA {| AA AS I TY PRL RAJ WE PS | CIN 3