Third: plenary meeting …
18 October 1974 at io, 16 a.m,  President; Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan), . - :  later Mrs, JOBORU (Hungary)  Troisidiiie séäince pléniète
18 octobre 1974, - À ‘10 h, 10  Président : M, HAGUIWARA (Japon),  puis Mme JOBORU (Hongrie) ’  Tércera sesion plénaria
18 oxrs6pa 1974 r.’B 10 4.10 Muu.  Npencenatens: r- H XATHBAPA (Anounus),
(3231) spon Sal te (HLT) Lim le dl à joel  ELECTION OF THE PRESIDENT AND OF THE FIFTEEN VICE-PRESIDENTS OF THE  GENERAL CONFERENCE  ELECTION DU PRESIDENT ET DES QUINZE VICE-PRESIDENTS DE LA CONFERENCE  GENERALE  ,Ç  ELECCION DEL PRESIDENTE Y DE LOS QUINCE VICEPRESIDETES DE LA CONFERENCIA  GENERAL  BbIBOPbI NPÉACERATENA H TIATHANUATH 3AMECTHTEJEH NPEACEMATENA  TEHEPAHbHOH KOH®5PEHHHH .  ome LEU te dsg plait fdlags, lis
1,1 Lé PRESIDENT, -  La séance est ouverte,” Nous allons procéder à l'examen du pôint 5 de l'ordre du jour, intitulé  “Election du président et des quinze vice- -présidents de la Conférence générale",
1,2 Je prie tout d'abord le président du Comité des candidatures, M, Dfez- -Hochleitner, de bien  vouldir présenter à la Conférence générale les’ propositions concernant 1e posté de’ président,
(2,1) Mr, DIEZ HOCHLEITNER (Spain), Chairman of the Nominations Committee (translation from the  Spanish}: . .  Mr, President of the General Conference, heads of the delegations and delegates of Member States,  Mr, Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr. Director-General, ladles and gentlemen: As requested by the  President, I have the honour to submit to you the report on the first meeting of the Nominations Committee,  beginning with the first part of ite report. ; iE Po a
(2.2) The Nominations Committee, consisting of the heads of delegallons or their deputies, was set up  last night and held its first meeting, - which was opened by the Chairman of the Executive Board, Dr. Sarrûf,  who, with his usual courtesy arid convincing way of speaking, presented the various recommendations of  the Executive Board to the Committee, In this way I was élected Chairman of the Nominations Committee  by acclamation, a distinction for which I do indeed feel grateful.  TE TRE A TT a.
(2.3) With a ‘sho bf Rarimony dna ficiency which dtä'nèt flag for a single tnétaût, the Nominations Com-  mittee Immediately proceeded to elect, also by acclamation, {ts three Vice-Chairmen, namely Czechoslo-  vakia, Madagascar and Malaysia. oe :
(2.4) The formal constitution of the Committee thus being coñcluded, and taking due account of the recom-  mendation made by the Chairman of the Executive Board, who further reported the significant fact that the  Board's own decision had been taken unanlmoukly, the Nominat{ons Committee decided, by acclamation, to  propose that the General Conference elect H.E. Mra. Magda Jéburd, of Hungary, as President of the  eighteenth session of the Conference.
(2.5) It is therefore my honour, to inform you Mr, President, and the General Conference, of this fact  so that you may confirm the election of one who is not only a woman of Indisputable professional compet-  ence but also a lady of great dignity. Thank you very much.
3.1 Le PRESIDENT, -  Je remercie M, Diez-Hochleitner pour ses informations, et je soumets à la considération de  l'Assemblée la proposition du Comité des candidatures d'élire, comme président de la Conférence  générale, Mme Magda Jôboru,  Mme Magda Jôbord est élue par acclamation présidente de la Conférence générale,
3.2 Mesdames et Messieurs, la décision que vous venez de prendre revêt un caractère historique.  C'est en effet la première fois depuis la Conférence de 1945, chargée de constituer notre Organi-  sation, qui a été présidée par Mme Ellen Wilkinson, qué les Etats membres de l'Unesco choisissent  une femme pour diriger leurs débats, En élisant Mme Jéboru, à laquelle j'ai le grand hénneur de  transmettre mes pouvoirs, vous avez fait preuve de la sagesse dont vous avez toujours témoigné  en de telles circonstances, En effet, toute la carrière de Mme Jébord illustre son dévôuement à  nos idéaux : successivement professeur dans l'enseignement secondaire, directrice d'un collège  populaire, secrétaire générale de l'Union nationale des femmes hongroises, vice-ministre de  l'éducation nationale, directeur général de la Bibliothèque nationale "’Széchenyl", professeur à  l'Université de Budapest et ambassadeur délégué permanent de la République populaire hongroise  auprès de l'Unesco, elle a en outre publié, tant dans son pays que dans d'autres, plusieurs ou-  vrages consacrés à l'éducation, et n'a cessé de prouver son intérêt pour divers aspects impor-  tants de l'activité de l'Unesco. Ses liens personnels avec notre Organisation sont d'ailleurs mul-  tiples et étroits, Présidente de la Commission nationale hongroise pour l'Unesco depuis sa fonda-  tion jusqu'en 1966, elle a été chef ou chef adjoint de la délégation hongroise aux sessions de la Con-  férence générale de 1954, 1958, 1960 et A toutes celles qui se sont succédé depuis lors ; en 1962  et 1964, elle aseuma la charge délicate de vice-présidente de la Commission du programme, Flue  membre du Conseil exécutif, où elle siégea de 1964 à 1972, elle en fut vice-présidente de 1966 à
3.3 Ces multiples activités qualifient donc tout particulièrement S. Exc, Mme Jébord pour diriger  nos débats, et je suis très heureux de pouvoir lui présenter, ainsi qu'à son pays, mes plus vives et  chaleureuges félicitations,
3.4 Qu'il me soit en outre permis de remercier le Président du Conseil exécutif pour les aimables  paroles qu'il a bien voulu m'adresser et d'exprimer ma gratitude aux délégations des Etats membres  pour l'uide qu'elles n'ont cessé de m'apporter depuis deux ans,
3.5 Madame la Présidente, mes dernières paroles à cette tribune seront pour vous souhaiter un  plein succès dans l'exercice de la haute charge que vous allez maintenant assumer,  Mme Jébord prend le fauteuil présidentiel,  t
4,1 The PRESIDENT: : . fo . ‘  Mr. Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr, Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, as 1  assume this eminent post, allow me first of all to state how honoured I am to take ovér the |.  presidency from a personality of such distinction as H, E, Mr, Toru Haguiwara, We have all  witnessed his competence, objectivity and impartiality in the conduct of the work of the seven-  teenth session of the General Conference, 1 will bear his activity in mind and it will inspire my  own work,  ‘ + [4 .
4,2 Ladies and gentlemen, fellow delegates, let me thank you sincerely for the confidence. you  have shown in electing me to perform this outstanding function, I know full well that this trust  is placed not only in me but also in my country, which has been a member of Unesco for more  than 25 years, which utilizes for its own benefit the international co-operation extended by Uneaco  and which places its own intellectual forces at the service of the Organization, In thanking you  again for your confidence, I appeal to you kindly to support me in my responsible duties, which
1 will try to perform to your satisfaction, : ;
4,3 Before speaking about the tasks béfore the Genéral Conference, permit me'to welcome. :  heartily the new Member States of our Organization, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea  and the Republic of San Marino and the new Associate Member Papua New Guinea, and wish them  all much success in their future co-operation with Unesco, It is a great pleasure to me that  through the adherence of these countries, our Organization has made a new move towards the  realization of'the ideal of universality,. It is my firm belief that through the liberation of the last  colonies and the settlement of the representative of the Irido- Chinese region according to realities,  our Organization will soon achieve universality in compliance with objectives laid down in its  Constitution,
4,4 The main task of the General Conference is to discuss fully and freely, and to decide, how  Unesco - in the next two years and in the subsequent years - should contribute in its special  fields of activity and by its special means to better understanding among the peoples of the world,  so that they may make mutual use of their experiences andlearnhow tolive inpeaceful coexistence  and co-operation,
4.5 The General Conference is called upon to analyse how Unesco, on the basis of the abundant  experience of the past 30 years, can promote those noble objectives in the fields of education,  science, culture and communication, This investigation is, however, inevitably influenced, as
1 think you will agree, by the international situation, by factors lying beyond our field of activity,  but at the same time tlosely connected with it, Thus, it is inevitable to.put the question: What are  the existing possibilities and what are the requirements imposed upon us by factors which rest be-  yond our sphere of activity?
4,6 1 presume you will share my opinion that a number of favourable changes have taken place  in the international situation since the seventeenth session of the General Conference and these  may raise optimism, may arouse a feeling that the working conditions of our Organization have  also improved, The ambition to demobilize and tô ban weapons threatening mankind with annihila-  tion are hopeful phenomena of our everyday life. We have the same confidence in the efforts which  are being displayed in the Interests of the security of Europe - a continent that launched two world  wars - and which will surely be crowned with success in the near future, ‘ We are also delighted  to witness the recent International events which - as a result of favourable changes in Portugal  and of the struggle of the African freedom-fighters - will accelerate the liberation of the last  colonies in Africa,
4,7 1 think we can be satisfied that Unesco has also contributed to an advantageous evolution in  international life, This activity, pursued since its inception, is being carried out much more  successfully and effectively since the developing and the socialist countries became active meni-  bers of the Organization, How, by what methods, has our Organization contributed to the easing  of international tension? By rendering possible exchanges of vléwi: among peoples of diverse:  backgrounds, belonging to different social systems, and by way of iigreements, recommendations  and numerous valuable publications, Unesco has joined those who spare no effert to enforce hu-  man rights throughout the world, Moreover, it has focused this energy on the support of the edu-  cational, scientific and cultural life of the developing countries, which thus becomes a dominant  factor in the maintenance of national independence, or economic and social development,
4,8 Beyond these traditional aétivities of our Organization, I wish to mention twô further acfivities  which have also, in my opinion, contributéd to International détente and idcéeased the prestige of  Unesco, We Europeans - and surely all Member States - highly appreciate the activity displayed  by the Director-General, Mr, Maheu, in the interests of the success of the Conference on Eurs-  pean Security and Co-operation, Another activity which we can recall with satisfaction is that  Unesco - having been deeply interested and indeed engaged in the fight agafnst racial discrimina-  tion and the last remnants of colonization - has recently established direct contact with the African  liberation movements fighting for Africa's {otal decolonization,
4,9 Ladies and gentlemen, though we can see a number of hopeful signs of international détente, *  we must not overlook the fact that in different parte of the world tensions still survive, or continue  to exist in a modified form. These tensions - as for example the unsolved problems of the Indé-
45   Chinese region and the Near East - already filled us with apprehension two years ago,’ In addition,  I am sorry to say that a çycle of events has again beéôme the root of new tensions, - This serves to  remind this General Confererice that the dévelopmerit of the international situation not only provides  better. opportunities for Unesco, but alsé credtes greater démands andincreases its responsibllifies,  “Te na 7 "à
4, 10 - Ladies’and gentlemen, - fellow detegates, for.five weeks you will confer; diséuss Unesco's.  biennial Draft Programme and that inspiring document which has been submitted to thé General  Conference by the Director-General with a view to assisting Member States in the elaboration of  a medium-term plan,’ in acdordance with Unesco's mission and with world problems and demands,  In my inaugural address I must be content with laying particular stress - from this rich material -  on some questions only, which I consider of special importance,
4,111 have always been deeply interested in the educational programme of Unesco, 1 think r “and  I hope the General Conference will share my opinion - that the educational programme is under-  going a favourable evolution in both content and methods, Although the democratization and re-  generation of education are general concepts which can be filled in with different contents, it is  beyond doubt that these questions - indifferent ways + stand in-the forefront of publig education in  all countiies, .That is why it is right that the Unesco programme should give priority to these  problems, The regeneration of education naturally means not only the application of modern tech-  nical equipment and methods, The most important thing'is the development of the content and  methods of education in such a manner as to help the oncoming generatioh to fulfil its commitments,  both intellectually and morally, as individuals, as citizens of their countries and ad'riembers of  the International community, to become the committed adherents of a happier way of life, of just  social progress; of understanding and peace among nations,
4,12 I am highly interested in the Director-General's idea, written into the programme, that be-  sides traditional technical assistance, it is important nowadays that Member States be supported  by Unesco's highly-qualified experts and consultants in the elaboration of their policies, strategies  and long-term plans for the democratization and regeneration of ‘education, This is a truly great  and serious vénture in both the developing and the developed tountries, Its successful solution  should be greatly aided, I believe, by continued co-operation, as suggested by the Director-General,  among experts who are, on the one hand, well aware of national requirements, and who have, on  the other hand, à rich international experience, By use of these methods we could perhaps also  make considerable progress in the elaboration of the concept and the practical implementation of  permanent education, .
4, 13 In'the context of democratization and regeneration of education, as well as in life-long edu-  cation, the fight against illitcracy still remains an immense task in the greater part of the world,  The experimental programme of Unesco is nearly ten years old, Its evaluation has now been com-  pleted. I sincerely hope that by its help the General Conference will adopt resolutions for the  further development of this important undertaking,
4, 14 Unesco! s science programme 1s generally received with satisfaction by the General Confer-:  ence, That will probably be the case this time also. And this ie very important, since we all  know that the rapid development of natural sciences, and of the closely-connected technical sciences,  holds a significant share in the promotion of the health, the material and intellectual welfare of the  peoples, We also know that the natural sciences have, not an exclusive," but an important rôle to  play in fighting against several dangers consequent upon the development of up-to-date technology.  The experts of my country regard the science programme - and I have heard the same opinion  quite often in several Unesco forums - as excellent, not only because of its content but also be-  cause it concentrates efforts on the most important undertakings, disregarding marginal activities  of minor Importance,
4,15 The programmes of social sciences, culture and communication used to raise more passionate  debates than the educational and scientific programmes.- Most probably this will happen again at  this General Conference, As in most Member States, in Unesco these fields of activity are less  mature, less elaborated, Yet they are significant, The social sciences have an important rôle  in the fundamental support of development, the economic, -social and cultural progress of nations,  the peaceful coexistence of peoples and lasting peace, .and in the struggle against racial discrimi-  nation and other unscientific, damaging and shameful ideas, Culture has the same significant mis-  sion - as the Unesco world conference in Venice and the European and Asian regional conferences  confirmed - a mission which turns or has to turn from the spiritual pleasure of a privileged min-  ority into the public property of milllons, Therefore it is important for all countries to pursue such  a cultural policy as will promote the preservation of valuable cultural traditions, the health of li-  terature and arts and the easy access of the masses to them, The same can be said about  communication,
4,16 Modern mass ‘media have become mighty powers, or where this has not yet heppened they  will become. 80 in the near future, influencing people's way of thinking and acting. “This power  can be utilized either for war-mongering, fomenting hoatiilty among nations and races, conceal-  ment of social injustice and so forth, or for the diffusion of ideals of human rights, social justice  and international ¢p-operation. I am confident that the General Conference - in accordance with  its significance - will attach special importance to these parts of the programme, As far as I am  concerned 1 consider particularly important the inter- sectoral programme dealing with human
46   rights and pence: the elaboration of the sodial aspects of the MAB programme; the ‘activities ini- 3  tiating the fôfmatioh of cultural and communication policies andthe éontinuation of thé very successful  International Book Year. ; I
4,17 Ladles'and géntlemen, at almost éyéry General Conference we havé a great debate about the  budget ceiling submitted by the Directar-General,. Most probably thig debate cannot.be avoided  this time either, 1 hope, nevertheless, that delegates to this General Conference will try to con-  sider the arguments of the Director-General and of each other in an objective way and will find a
4,18’ Ladies and gentlemen, on thé bagls of the resolution of the 1ast déasfon of the! Géneral Con-  a ge ¥ 38 1 [a To A on ¢ 2 n 1  ference and of the directiyes of the Executive Board, the Diréctor-Geñeral has éubmitted to the ; ] 2 $ ol the cutlye board, 1 ! -nergl has submitied to |  this matter, As indicated in the Director-General's introduction, the document does not represent  a medium- térm programme for six years] it outlines those long-term objetiivég Whiéh should serve -  in the light of the international situation and the mission of Unesco - as a basis for the future policy  of Unesco and for its most-important activities, .] sincerely hope, that this inspiring document will  serve its purpose, namely to help the General Conference to decide upon the main ‘guidelines and  priorities of the medium-term plan for 1977-1982, ; : ' ° :  ve co : - - à.
4,19 Ladies and gentlemen, the times in which we live and our Organization works are character-  ized by rapid moves and changes; filling us sometimes With hopé, ‘sometimes with dixlety. But  essentially we all consider - in my view - that these rapid and from timé tô tfmé turbulent moves  and changes, point nevertheless towards a promising future for mankind, ;
4,20 In ébrclusioh allow me, pléafe; to express ny sincere hopè that this séssioh of the General  Conferénce Will constitute a new’ contribution of Unescé‘to the peaceful and humane future deeply’  desired by all peoples of the world, and to wish every success to all delegates and parlicipants at  the Conference, =  ro. [I \
4.21 1now give the floor to Mr, Dfez Hochleitner, Chairman of the Nominations Committee, to  continue his report, ' ’
(5.1) Mr. DIEZ HOCHLEITNER(Spain), Chattman of the Nominations Committe (translation from the  Spanish):  Madam President, after presenting you with my heartiest congratulations, I shall continue with the
47   report of the Nominations Committee to which Dr. Sarrûf also communicated the remaining proposals of  . the Executive Board concerning the fifteen Vice-Presldenta of the General Conference and the Chairmen  of the Commissions and Committees. .  {5,2) After a few brief statements and in view of the attendant circumstances, the Nominations Commitlee  écided by Acclamation tô récommiend fo the Général Conference and 10 the'Commissions'and Committees  that théy elect the following as Vice-Preaidents of the General Conference: China, Cuba, France, Gabon,  Federal Republic of Geritany; Indla, Japan, Kenya, Lebanon, Pakistan, Panama, Senegal, Union of Soviet  ‘Socialist Republics, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and United States of America,  . ER ‘ aie 145" i 1 ! A “ Pe
(5.3) In addition, it recommended the election of Dr. Aklilu Habte of Ethiopia as Chairman of the Com-  misslon for Education; . Professor Lévy Makany of the Congo as Chalrman of the Commission for Science;  H.E. Dr, Gabriel Betahcur Mejra of Colombia ps Chairman of the C¢mmidsion for Social Sclences, Human-  les and Culture; H.E. Dr, Joséf Grohinah of Czechoslovakia ad Chairman of the’ Commiésion for Com-  munication; Mr. Napoléon LeBlañd'ôf Canada as Chäfrman df the’ Coinmission on General Programniz  “ Malters: Mr. Béfnard J, E/M/ dé Hoog of the Netherlands as Chairinan of the Resolutions Committee;  Senator the Hon.: Hector Wynter of Jamaica as Chairman of the Administrativé Commission; and Mr.  Adnan Nachabe of the Syrian Arab Republic as Chairman of the Legal Committee.
(5, 4) The. Nominations Committee also agreed that the Vice-Chalrmen and Rapporteurs should be elected  by ihe réspective Commissions and Committees. ;
8.5) ‘Lisi, Vie Nominations Commitlee took note of the fact that the Crédentiats Committe, at ite first  mesting held yesterdky morning, elected H. E. Mr. Tooryalay Etemad! of Afghanistan as its Chalrman, and  that the Chairman of the Headquarters Committee, which meets in between the sessions of the General Con-  ference, is H.E. Mr. Francisco Cuevas Canclno of Mexico.
(5.6) Thus, Madam President, the Nominations Committee discharged its dutles at the firet meeting held  last night. Thank you very much.
6.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of the Nominations Committee, We will now proceed to the election of  the fifteen .Vice-Presidents of te General Conference, The Nominations Committee proposes  for the fiftgen Vice- Presidencies, the heads of delegation of the following countries: China, Cuba,  France, Gabon, Federal Republic of Germany, India, Japan, Kenya, Lebanon, Pakistan, Panama,  Senegal, Union of Soviet Socialist Republice, United Kingdom, United States of America,
6.2 ! assume that the General Conference agrees with these nominations,
6.3 I declare the representatives of the above-mentioned countries elected by acclamation,  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES  CONSTITUTION DES COMMISSIONS ET COMITES |  CONSTITUCION DE COMISIONES Y COMITES  YUPEXIEHHE KOMHCCHH H KOMHTETOB  oll UL
7.1 The PRESIDENT: © |  We will ngw elect the Chairman of the five Programme Commissions and of the Administra-  tive Commission, Eo that they can attend the first meetirig of thé General Committee at midday  today. 7
7.2 "According to Rule'47 ôt'the Rules of Procedure, each Commtsélon elects its own Chairman,  We shall follow for this purpose the procedure adopted at previous sessions, I am going 16 sus-,  pend the pléfiary meeting and call fn this room; ‘ong after the other, the first méetinge of thé five  Programme Cémmilssions and of the Administrative Commission, On the agenda of each of these  ‘meetings {here will bé only ore ftem: election ôf Chairman,
7.3 The 'pleriary meeting fs suspended, The first meeting of Commission I - Education - is  called td order, ; :
7,4 The Nominations Committee, as you have just heard, proposes for the Chairmanship of this  Commission Mr, Aklily Habte, member of the Ethiopian delegation, Taking note of the approba-  dn you have just s{gntfied, {declare Mr. Habté elected by acclamation to the Office of Chairman  of Commission [, Education, “
1.5 The fivét méetthg of Commleston ! fs adjourned, I call to order the first meeting of Com-  migslon II - Sclente, - ;
1,6" Thé Nominations Committee proposes for Chairmanship of this Cominigsion Préfessor Lévy  Makany, member of the delegation of the People's Republic of Congo. Taking note of thé approval  you have just signified, I declare Professor Makany elected Chairman of Commission 11,
7,7 The first meeting of Commission Il ie adjourned, I call to order the tirst meeting of Com-  miesion HI - Soclal Sciences, Humanities and Culture, ;
7.8 The Nominations Commiltee proposes for the office of Chairman of this Commission H. E. Mr.  Betancur Mejta, member of the Colombian delegation. Your approval permits me to declare  Ambassador Mejia elected Chairman of Commission III.
7.9 The first meeting of Commission III is adjourned. I call to order the first meeting of Com-  mission IV - Communication,
7,10 The Nominations Committee is proposing H. E, Mr. Josef Grohman, member of the Czecho-  slovak delegation, for the Chairmanship of this Commission. Taking note of your approval, I de-  clare Mr. Josef Grohman elected Chairman of Commission IV.
7.11 The first meeting of Commission IV is adjourned, I call to order the first meeting of Com-  mission V - General Programme Matters.
7.12 The Nominations Committée proposes as its Chairman Mr. Napoléon LeBlanc of Canada.  Your applause shows that you agree and I declare Mr. LeBlanc elected Chairman of Commission V.
7.13 The first meeting of Commission V is adjourned. I call to order the first meeting of the  Administrative Commission.
7.14 The Nominations Committee proposes Senator Hector Wynter for its Chairmanship. Taking  note of the approval of this choice which you have just manifested, | declare Senator Wynter elected  Chairman of the Administrative Commission.
7.15 The first meeting of the Administrative Commission is adjourned. The third plenary meet-  ing is resumed.
7.16 I wish now to draw your attention to document 18 C/2 Rev. It is true that we are going to  deal with this document, "Organization of the work of the eighteenth session of the General Con-  ference", in detail this afternoon, but there is one action which we have to take now and without  which the membership of the General Committee of the Conference cannot be complete. I you turn  to paragraphs 10 (e) and 21 of document 18 C/2 Rev. you will see that in view of the great and  ever-increasing importance of the Resolutions Committee, the Executive Board is proposing the  inclusion of its Chairman on the General Committee of the Conference.
7.17 My first step now is to ask whether there is any opposition to the inclusion of the Chairman  of the Resolutions Committee on the General Committee. I see none; therefore this is decided.
7.18 The next step is to decide on the composition of the Resolutions Committee. The Executive  Board suggests that it should have no more than seven members. I take the liberty of proposing  that it be composed of the following countries: Brazil, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,  Egypt, France, Ghana, Indonesia, Netherlands.
7.19 As there is no opposition or comment, I declare the seven countries I have just listed as  elected to the Resolutions Committee.
7.20 The Chairmen of the Credentials, Nominations and Headquarters Committees, as you know,  are already elected and therefore all that remains to be done to complete the General Committee  is to elect the Chairmen of the Legal and Resolutions Committees, I Invite States Members of  the two committees to send a representative to the two meetings, which will take place immedi-  ately in Room VI for the Legal Committee and In Room VIII for the Resolutions Committee. The  only item on their agenda will be the election of their Chairman.
7.21 I note that the following countries were elected to the Legal Committee by the seventeenth  session of the General Conference: Algeria, Bulgaria, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey,  France, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, India, Iran, Italy, Lebanon, Liberia, Netherlands,  Switzerland, Syria, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom, United States of  America, Venezuela, Yugoslavia,
7.22 The General Committee consists of the President, the fifteen Vice-Presidents and the  Chairmen of the Commissions and Committees of the General Conference. It will meet in Room  IX fifteen minutes after the end of this plenary meeting, to give time to the Legal and Resolutions  Committees to elect their Chairmen, The General Committee will deal at its first meeting with  the recommendations of the Execulive Board concerning the organization of the work of the eight-  eenth session of the General Conference, and I will present its flrst report orally at our plenary  meeting this afternoon,
7,23 The fourth plenary meeting will take place this afternoon at 3.00 p.m. The meeting stands  adjourned.  The meeting rose at 11 a, m.  La séance est levée A 11 h,  Se levanta la sesidn a las 11 h.
3aceaaune sakpHnaercs B 11 4,  + bebo 3,0 ao bad) Bld (gf Balad cond,