Thirty-ninth plenary meeting
20 November 1974 at 3,20 p,m. Co  President: Mrs, JOBORU (Hungary),  later Mr. MARTIN (United Kingdom)  Trente-neuvième séancé plénière
20 novembre 1974, à 15 h, 20  Présidente: Mme JOBORU (Hongrie)  puis M. MARTIN (Royaume-Uni)  Trigesimonovena sesiôn plenaria
3areM r-H MAPTHH (CoesaHnexnHoe KoporeBCcTBo)  RECIPE PARI FW]  JUAN vas alr ve FUN on / pris ve
(3st El) GS le al (8 6 (radl) spor Id s GS  ORGANIZATION OF WORK  ORGANISATION DES TRAVAUX  ORGANIZACION DE LOS TRABAJOS  OPI"AHH3ALHA PABOTBI  Jus pbs
1,1 The PRESIDENT:  THe meeting {a called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, before embarking on the adoption of  the Report of Commission IH, which is the business for this afternoon, I should like to consult  you on a different question,
1.2 The General Committee this morning had unfortunately no time to deal with one matter, and  I should therefore like to consult the plenary about ft. It concerns our programme of work for  the rest of the week. The Working Group on peace, colonialism, etc. was unable to finish its  work as foreseen, and consequently it will be impossible to discuss and vote on the results of its  work tomorrow morning as planned, because the necessary document will not be available In time.
1,3 It fe my intention to change our time-table in the following manner. Tomorrow, Thursday  morning, we shall deal with items 57, 58 and 59, originally acheduled for Friday morning. Those  items, as you know, concern the election of members of committees for the nineteenth session,  election of members of other bodies, and, finally, place of tho nineteenth session of the General  Conference. In the afternoon there will be no change: we shall deal with'the Report of Commis-  sion V. At the scheduled night meeting tomorrow, we should he able to start the discussion on  the text of resolutions concerning peace, colonfaliem, etc. which we hope will bo available for  study by delegations tomorrow morning. This discussion could then be tinished on Friday morning.  In the afternoon of Friday we can then proceed to the closure of the eighteenth session. 1 hope  you agree with these changes, They are agreed.
39 REPORT OR COMMISSION III (SOCIAL SCIENCES} HUMANITIES Ayp’ CULTURE)  RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION HI (SCIENCES SOCIALES, SCIENCES HUMAINES ET CULTURE)  INFORME DE LA COMISION If (CIENCIAS SOCIALES, HUMANIDADES Y CULTURA)  HNOKHAN KOMHCCHH 111 (COUMAJIBHBIE HAYKH, ‘TYMAHHTAPHBIE HAYKH H KYJIBTYPAS  (Ell Bela pptadly hui YI pall) Fol as Ul us
2,1 The PRESIDENT; : '  Ladies and gentlemen, our business now is the approval of the Report of Commission III -  Social Sciences, Humanities and Culture, The relevant documents are 18 c/122, which is the  narrative part of the Commission's report, and 18:G/122 Annex - Recommendations.  - « € LA + * - a
2.2 I call on the Chairman of Commission IH, H, E. Dr. Gabriel Betancur Mejia, to present the  Report of the Commission.
(3.1) Mr, BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia), (Chairman of Comnitesgion lll: Soclal Sciences, lluinanities  and Culture) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Madam President, 1 have the honour to introduce the report of Commission III, which  considered {tems 17,3, 28, 29, 30, 61 and 67 of the Conference's agenda, and the recommendations cor-  responding to each of those (tema,
(3.2) May I firstly express my thanks for the honour which you have conferred upon me In electing me  Chairman of this Commission, which has one of the heaviest agendas of the Organization, on account of  this sector's Influence throughout Unesco's activities. 1 should like to draw atlention lo the co-operation  which we have recelved from our Vice-Chairmen, Dr, Salustiano del Campo, Dr, Harsja W, Bachtiar,  and H, F. N, N'sougan Agblemagnon, and to thelr expert and valuable assistance in directing our discus.  sions, I must also mention the work done by our skilful Napporteur, Mrs, Marghereta Mickwite, which  is reflected in the full report of the Commission,
(3,3) To all of these I should like to express my gratitude, as well ag to the former Director-General of  Unesco, Mr. Rene Maheu, the Deputy Director-General, Mr. Fobes, and the Assistant Director-General,  Mr, Hoggart, who have assisted us throughout our work with their knowledge and experience of all aspects  of the Sector, together with their colleagues In charge of the various sections of the Programmie, The -  efficient collaboration of Mr, Ziolkowskl, Secretary of the Commission, who spared no effort to facilitate  our work, and that of the accompanying team of staff members, have made a decisive contribution to the  success of our work, . I should lke to thank the Interpreters who have patiently given us their valuable  assistance in meetings which were sometimes long and tiring, and also to the conference officers who  have facilitated our task, ;
(3,4) The Commission held 22 working meetings instead of the 13 which were scheduled, which mans that  in future {t will be necessary to provide for a larger number of meetings, There was an average of 45  speakers with an approximate attendance of 85 delegations, which algo confirms the need to provide for  more time 50 that the Commission may accomplish its task without difficulty,
(3.5) Lastly, 1 should like to express my gratitude to all the delegates who, through their statements,  enabled the Commission to present a number of well-thought-out recommendations to the plenary meetings;  and lastly, Madam President, | should like to expréss the wish that this important sector of our Organiza-  tion, which represents so many expectations for our Member States, may be endowed {n'future with greater  resources, both budgetary and extra-budgetary, in order to fulfi) the hopes which mankind has placed in  Unesco, ’
(3.6) The President has mentioned the documents submitted to you for consideration. Document 18 C/122  gives a summary account of the debates of Commission III; its text was carefully studied, revised and  approved, and ! have nothing to add to it, Document 18 C/122, Annex-Recommendallons, contains all the  resolutions which were studied and approved for transmission for final approval to the General Conference  in plenary. Thank you, Madam President,
4,1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of Commission HI.
4.2 Ladies and gentlemen, now I wish to remind you that the narrative part of the Report in docu-  ment 18 C/122 only requires to be taken note of by the delegates.
4.3 In the absence of comment, I take it as noted by the plenary.
4.4 We will now take up the draft resolutions submitted for approval (18 C/122 Annex - Recom-  mendations). You will remember the procedure we have followed in disçussing the reports of  other Commissions. In view of the heavy business still before the plenary, the General Commit-  tee of the Conference has suggested that to save time, those draft resolutions and other matters  recommended unanimously for approval, or recommended without any votes against although with  sone abstentions, need not be voted on formally unless any delegate specifically asks for à vote  to ba taken.
4.5 I shall now take the resolutions one by one (document 18 C/122 Annex - Recommendations).  Sub-chapter 3.1 - Philosophy and interdisciplinary co-operation  Paragraph 1
4.6 The Con:mission unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt this resolution.  Can I take it to be unanimously adopted by the plenary? Adopted unanimously.  Paragraph 2
4.7 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of the Work Plans con-  tained in this paragraph, We take note of them.  Paragraph 3
4.8 The Commission recommended by 59 votes to none, with 8 abstentions, that the General Con-  ference approve the Bidget proposed in this paragraph. I give the floor to the Deputy Director-  General,
6. Mr. FOBES (Depaty Director-General):  Madam President, in an effort to save time on a long report with a great many resolutions,  ft should prove posrible, I believe, for you at the close of the process of adoption of the resolu-  tions to ask the Co'iference to take note of all the work plans, and In respect of the Budget, simply  to notify the Conference that it will later have before it, for forinal adoption, the budget for the |  chapter in queation In connexion with the Appropriate Resolution. This afternoon you could then  consider, only those paragraphs which have resolutions attached to them, taking note of all the  other items, namely the work plans, at the end, and dealing with the budget tomorrow,
6.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Does the General Conference agree with the proposal just made by the Deputy  Director. Ganeral? 1 think you agree, and we will so proceed.
39 Sub-chapter 3,2 - Social Sciences  Paragraph 4
6.2. The Commission recommended by 70 votes to none, with 3 abstentions, that the General  Conference adopt the resolution contained in this paragraph, Does anybody request & vote on this  resolution? It fs adopted,  Paragraph 5
6,3 The Commission recommended by 57 votes to 1, with 2 abstentions, that the General Con-  ference adopt the resolution contained in this paragraph. I put the resolution to the vote,  (The vote was taken by show of hands, )
6.4 The resolution has been adopted by 86 votes to none, with 1 abstention.  Section 3.21 - Development of the Social Sciences  Paragraph 6 -
6.5 The Comniission recommended by 72 votes to none, with 4 abstentions, that the General  Conference adopt this resolution. Are you ready to adopt it? It is unanimously adopted,  Paragraph 7
6.6 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of the work plan inclu-  ded in this paragraph and approve the budget in paragraph 8, Can I take it that this has been done  by the plenary? Thank you,  Section 3.22 - Social sclence methods and analyses  Paragraph 9
6.7 The Commission recommended by 72 votes to none, with 3 abstentions, that the General Con-  ference adopt this resolution. Does anybody request a vote on this resolution? It is adopted.  Paragraphs 10 and 11
6.8 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of the work plan and  approve the budget contained in these paragraphs. No comments? We have taken note.  Section 3.23 - Applied Soctal Sciences  Paragraph 12
6.9 The Commission recommended unanimously that the General Conference adopt this resolution.  Can I take it to be adopted by the plenary? Adopted unanimously.
6.10 I give the floor to the Deputy Director-General,
7.1 Mr, FOBES (Deputy Director-General):  Madam President, if delegates would look at paragraph 120 in the narrative report of the  Commission (document 18 C/122) they will see that the Commission adopted a draft résolution on  an Institute for Peace Research with special reference to the Gandhian Approach, on the under-  standing that Unesco's contribution to the establishment of such an institute was primarily moral  support and would not affect the proposed budget, though ald might be given under the Participation  Programme,
7.2 Madam President, that understanding at the time of the Commission's action, I think simply  by error, was not Incorporated in the draft resolution which appears in paragraph 13. As the  resolution in its final paragraph now reads, it invites thé Director-General to establish an institute,  There fa no budget provision for that, nor is it consistent with the understanding at the time of the  Commission's action,
7,3 Ifeel that, to reflect that understanding, the last paragraph would have to read: "Invites the  Director-General to encourage the establishment of an International Institute... ", instead of  the specific invitation to establish which is now fn the text.
7.4 Madam President, ! am assured that that was the understanding and that there was a failure  to bring these words Into the final text as it appears in paragraph 13, I hopé that this view {8  shared by the General Conferénce, because, asl say, there is no budgetary provision other than  in the Participation Programme,
8, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Deputy Director-General, The delegate of India has the floor,
9, Mrs. VATSYAYAN (India):  Madam President, I confirm the understanding of the Deputy Director-General, Thank you.
10.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you.
10.2 The Commission recommended by 17 votes to 7, with 49 abstentions, that the General Con-  ference adopt the resolution contained in paragraph 13,
10, 3 I put to the vote the resolution contained in paragraph 13, as amended,
10,4 The resolution has been adopted by 82 votes to none, with 15 abstentions.  Paragraph 14
10,5 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of the work plan for  Section 3.23.
16.6 The Conference takes note of this work plan,  Sub-chapter 3,3 - Cultural Activities  Section 3. 31 - Studies and Circulation  Paragraph 17
10.7 The Commission recommended by 55 votes to none, with 4 abstentions, that the General  Conference adopt the resolution in this paragraph,
10.8 It is adopted.  ‘Paragraph 18
10,9 The Commission recommended by 60 votes to none, with 14 abstentions, that the General  Conference adopt the resolution in this paragraph.
10.10 The resolution is adopted,
11,1 M. DIENE (Sénégal). -  Madame la Présidente, à propos de la résolutio: figurant au paragraphe 18 -qui a maintenant
(16 adoptée -, je voudrais dire que ma délégatin considère que l'aide apportée à l'ICAM devrait  ttre financée par les crédits mentionnés sout : «rubrique "Développement culturel" (section 3.32),
11,2 Nous aimerions quo cela figure dans le compte rendu de la séance et dans le Plan de travail,  Merci, Madame la Présidente.
12.1 The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the delegate of Senegal, This statement will be recorded.  Paragraph 19
12,2 The Commission recommended by 31 votes to none, with 35 abstentions, that the General  Conference adopt the draft resolution in this paragraph.
12.3 The draft resolution is adopted,  Paragraph 20
12,4 The Commission recommended by 55 votes to none, with 23 abstentions, that the General  Conference adopt the resolution in this paragraph.
12.5 It is adopted,  Paragraph 22
12.6 The Commission recommended that thé General Conference take noté of thé work plan nt  Section 3, 31,
12.7 The Conference takes note of this work plan.  Section 3.32 - Cultural development  Paragr aph 23 : :
12,8 The delegate of Peru has the floor.
(13.1) Mr, CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President, draft resolution 3.32 contained in paragraph 23 was approved by the Commission  before the new regionalization had taken place, We should like to introduce a small amendment to sub-  paragraph (a), (1) which refers to an intergovernmental conference on cultural policies, similar to that  held in Africa, which will be held In the western hemisphere in 1977. The amendment’ consists in replac-  ing the words "to be held In the western hemisphere in 1977" by the phrase “for Latin America and the  Caribbean. in 1977", since the new regionalization includes the American Third World, With this amend-  ment, the Intention of the paragraph would Le clearly expressed.
(13.2) I should like to observe, Madam President, that Peru offers to provide facilities for the conference  to be held in Lima, Thank you.
14,1 The PRESIDENT:  In the absence of any objection to the amendment just proposed by the delegate of Peru, it  is adopted,
14.2 The Commission recommended by 68 votes to none, with 10 abstentions, that ie General  Conference adopt the resolution in this paragraph.
14.3 The resolution, as amended by the delegate of Peru, is adopted.  Paragraph 24
14,4 Thé Comniission recommended by acclamation that thé General Conference adopt the reso  lution contained inthis paragraph. ‘
14.5 The delagate of the United Kingdom has the floor.
15. Mr. McCULLOCH (United Kingdom):  Thank you, Madam President, I would be grateful if you would take a formal vote on this  resolution. Thank you.
16.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I put to the vote the resolution contained in paragraph 24.
16,2 The resolution has been adopted by 91 votes to none, with 13 abstentions,  Paragraph 27
16.3 The Commission recommended unanimously that the, General Conference adopt the draft  resolution contained in this paragraph, Can I take it as unanimously adopted? It is unanimously  adoptéd,  Paragraph 28
16,4 The Commission recommended by 53 votes to none, with 3 abstentions, that the General  Conference adopt the resolution contained in this paragraph. Can I take it as unanimously adopted?  It is unanimously adopted,  Paragraph 29
16,5 The Commission recommended by 51 votes to none, with 5 abstentions, that the General  Conference adopt the resolution contained in this paragraph. Can I take ft as unanimously adopted?  It 1s unanimously adopted,
352   Paragraph 30 ;  ¢ Coe + test Ce Tn : + : 4
16,6 The Commission recommended by 57 votes to 1, with 6 abstentions, that the General Con-  ference adopt the resolution contained in this paragraph. I put the resolution to the vote, The  resolution is adopted by 90 votes to none, with 2 abstentions, . " i :
16.7 I give the. floor to the Deputy Diractor-General, ’ ! )
17.1 Mr, FOBES (Deputy Director-General):  ~ Madam President, this draft resolution which originally was carrying the number 18,C/DR, 312  had, as one of {ts Intentions, to influence the. adjustments. that the Conference was making in the.  proposed Programme and Budget -,adjustments which, as.you know, were designed to bring the:  budget down té within the budget ceiling, The next to last paragraph of that draft resolution had  as its purpose to influence the adjustments being made, In the view of the Director- General,  this paragraph, at this stage of the General Conference, loses its purpose and cannot have practi-  cal effect. The balance of the resolution, of course, Has meaning, particularly sliiée ft éoncludes  with a recommendation to the Director-General to increase the resources in the next Programme  and Budget for cultural activities.
17.2 Madam President, should the Conference agrée with my remarks, it would be appropriate,  therefore; to delete the next to last paragraph of this resolution,
18. The PRESIDENT: ;  Thank | you. ‘1 give the floor to the delégate © of Italy.
19.1 M. TERNI (Italie). -  Madame la Présidente, nous avons très longuement discuté du projet de résolution 18 c/  DR, 312 en Commission. Le sens profond de cette discussion était très simple : nous ne souscri-’  vions pas du tout à l'intention d'apporter des coupires d'un montant de 238. 900 dollars aux'cré-  dits prévus pour le département de la vie culturelle, mais souhaftions au contraire, que ce dépar-  tement bénéficie d'une augmentation substantielle de ressources, conformément aux voeux expri-  més par le Conseil exécutif. Nous avions donc décidé d'inclure dans le projet de résolution un  avant-dernier paragraphe invitant le Directeur général à procéder à des ajustements de nature à  restituer au budget dudit département son intégralité originelle, c'est-à-dire à supprimer les cou-  pures énvisagées. Les représentants du Scorétariat nous ont alors suggéré d'adresser cette invi-  tation, non pas au Directeur général, mais à la Conférence générale, ce qui était assez équivoque  sur le ‘plan juridique.
19.2 Or, nous sommès maintenant saisis d'un texte où 1l n'est plus question d'invitation au Direc-  teur général, mais d'une décision qui, comme on'vient de nous le signaler, n'a guèré de sens dans  les éirconstances préaéntes, Je n'al pas l'intention d'entrer dans les détails à ce stade, mais  pour préserver l'esprit de notre résolution, qui était bien de restituer au budget du département  de la vie culturelle les montants dont {1 était question de l'amputer par une coupure malencontreuse,  nous demandons que l'on reprenne la rédaction originalé de l'avant- dernier paragraphe et que l'on  dise, au lleu de "Décide que" ... etc., "Invite le Directeur général à ...".
19,3 L'observation que je viens de faire vise à marquer notre étonnement : Etant ‘donné que la  Commission avait fait sienne notre attitude, nous ne comprenons pas comment il peut se faire que  nous nous retrouvions maintenant de nouveau confräntés A'la situation initiale, c'ést-à-dire une  très iraportante coupure des crédits afféctés au développement culturel et à l'étude des cultures.  Je vous remercie, Madame la Présidente. :
20, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Togo.
21.1 M, AGBLEMAGNON (Togo) - +  Madame fa/Présidente, je veudrais joindre ma voix A celle de l'orateur qui m'a’ précédé. Ce  faisant, je derieure fidèle à moi-mtme; puisque, au Conseil éxécutif, j'ai déjà eu L'honteur d'in-  sister sur importance qu'il convient de redonner au secteur de la culture, )  ; ‘x 3
21,2 Je me réjouis de l'esprit nouveau qut semble antiner | ce secteur et j'estime que nous nous  rendriong coupablé'd'une inconséquence et d'une tricherie si, tout en applaudisuant À l'idée d'un -  programme culturel renouvelé, À l'idée que la culture est appelée comme l'a dit 1e Directeur -  général, à prendre dans nos activités une place toujours plus large, nous acceptions une réduction  des crédits qui lui sont alloués. -
21.3 1 mé sembie donc que, quelles que pulssent ttre les ofrconstances, quel q que pulsse ttre-  l'état de nos fiharicès; nous devrénd continuer à fairo bénéficier 1a culture de sacrificés au moins  égaux A ceux'auxquels nous avons déjà consent! en sa faveurs’ Aussi sûla-je entibremènt d'accord  avec ceux qui estiment que 1a Conférence générale devrait faire en sorte que la culture bénéfiole  tout au moins en 1976-1976 du modeste crédit qui a été prévu pour elle dans le document 18 C/6,  Merci, Madame la Présidente,
39 22, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Togo, and I give the floor to the delegate of Tunisia.
23.1 M, RAFIK SAID (Tunisie), -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais rappeler que ¢ette question a été soulevée lors de l'exa-  men du rapport en commission, Nous nous étions alors étonnée de nous trouver placés devant un  texte de résolution qui, tel qu'il avait été modifié, ne reflétait pas exactement les décisions prises  et nous avions demandé que fat rétabli le texte or/ginal qui avait été approuvé par la Commission.  Nous pensions que la question était réglée ; mais nous constatons malheureusement qu'il n'en était  pas ainsi,
23.2 J'appuie donc les déclarations de deux orateurs précédents, notammem celle du représentant  d'Italie, et je demande, moi aussi, que le paragraphe en question soft rétabli tel qu'il a été coni-  pris et voté en commission, Je vous remercié, Madame la Présidente,
24. The PRESIDENT;  I give the floor to the delegate of Australia,
25. Mr, PHILP (Australia):  Thank you, Madam President. I wish simply to ask a question of the Chairman of the Com-  mission, It seems to us that the last two paragraphs contradict each other and I am not quite  sure which one the Commission wants to hold. Does thé Commission wish to recommend fo the  plenary that there be extra-budgetary funds fn the 19 C/5 document - fn other words, that the (otal  funds be increased in order to provide extra money for culture - or are we asking the Divector-  General to produce a budget which has an entirely different balance? If the answer is yes to the  second question then it seems to me that we are being entirely unreasonable with the Directox-  General. Thank you, Madam President.
26, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of France.
27.1 M. ELISEEFF (France). -  Madame la Présidente, en tant que coauteur du projet de résolution, la délégation française  joint sa voix à celles des délégations de l'Italie et du Togo.
27.2 Je tiens ici A souligner que, lorsque nous sorames intervenus dans le débat de la Commis-  sion III, c'était bien une question de fond et non pas de forme. Un désir s'est exprimé, notre pro-  jet de résolution a reçu un très large appul, et nous nous sommes rangés à l'avis du Sous-Direc-  teur général chaque fois qu'il proposait une nouvelle formule, Nous savons que la question est  très difficile, et pour notre part nous ne ferons de reproche A personne ; nous voulons néanmoins  insister résolument sur la valeur de l'appel que nous avons voulu lancer et eur l'intértt qu'il y a  a ce que soient fidèlement reflétés les débats qui se sont déroulés au sein de la Commission III,  tent au cours de la présente session qu'au cours des sessions précédentes, Je vous remercie,  Madame la Présidente.
28. The PRESIDENT:  I give the floor to tite Chairman of Commission IIL.
(29,1) Mr, BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia), (Chalrman of Commission Ill) (Translation from the Spanish): 39  Madam President, firstly, I have before ine the draft resolution which appears in the annex which was  submitied to the Commission when it considered the report and the co:.ceponding annexes containing  among thers this draft resolution, When the Commission sludied the draft, no amendment was made;  that 1s to say, the final draft as {t appears in the document before us was approved by the Commission,
(27.2) Two facts have to be taken into account: the draft resolution was submitted jn Commission when  the Director-General, after the resolution of the General Conference, had to proceed to budgetary readjust-  ments, so ae to fit the total appropriations to the maximum budget ceiling approved and, precisely, the  General Committee made a recommendation, ratified In plenary, to the effect that the Director.General  should make cuts in the budget, chapter by chapter; these cuts were established and the Assistant  Director- General for Culture submitted the result with the cuts relating to each of the sectors or eub-  chapters concerned, which were approved, :
(29.3) Thus, the penultimate paragraph of the draft resolution had to be passed to the plenary, since it  no longer came within the competence of the Commission; ‘the Commission could make a recommendation,  but it was for the plenary to take a deciclon, With regard to the final paragraph, the intention ig clearly  that, in the Draft Programme and Budget, =zcoun! should be taken of the Commission's desire, as I men-  tioned in my introductory remarks, that resources should bé increased so as to meet the reasonable  requests of all who are concerned with this sector. Thank you, Madam President.
30. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of Commission III and 1 give the floor to the delegate of the Netherlands.
31.1 M. de HOOG (Pays-Bas). -  Madame la Présidente, je comprends très bien les difficultés, d'ordre technique, que soulève  le texte sous sa forme actuelle et qu'a soulignées le Directeur général adjoint. Le paragraphe en  cause n'a en effet plus Leu de figurer sous cette forme au stade actuel des travaux de la Conférence.
31,2 Les orateurs qui viennent de prendre la parole, et avec lesquels je suis entièrement d'accord  quant a» fond, parlent en fait d'autre chose, et je voudrais, tout en supprimant la difficulté tech-  nique relevée par le Directeur général adjoint, leur proposer un texte qui, à mon sens, pourrait  les satisfaire. Je voudrais signaler qu'en tout état de cause, si l’on remplace, comme l'a suggéré  le représentant de l'Italie, "Décide que" par "Invite le Directeur général 3", 1a phrase n'est plus  grammat'calement correcte, Je propose donc d'adopter pour ce paragraphe la formulation sul-  vante : “Invite le Direci<ur général à accroftre, dans toute la mesure du possible, par des aména-  gements internes du budget de l'Organisation, les affectations financières déjà modestes du pro-  gramme de développement culturel et des études de culture’, Je crois que ce libellé permet d'une  part d'éviter la difficulté évidente, d'ordre technique, sur laquelle le Directeur général adjoint a  attiré l'attention de l'Assemblée, et d'autre part, de donner satisfaction aux auteurs de la résolu-  tion et à ceux qui l'appuient, dont je suis, Merci, Madame la Présidente,
32. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Any other speaker? The delegate of France,
33. M. ELISEEFF (Franco), -  Madame la Présidente, je remercie la délégation des Pays-Bas d'avoir fait ce qui me semble  tire une heureuse proposition, La délégation française, pour sa part, y souscrit volontiers,
34. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Tt» delegate of Tunisia has the floor.
35. M. RAFIK SAID (Tunisie). -  Madame la Présidente, je souhaite cimplement joindre ma voix à celle du représentant de la  France pour remercier le représentant des Pays-Bas et dire que j'approuve, moi aussi, la modi-  fication qu'il a proposée,
36. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of Togo has the floor.
37, M, AGBLEMAGNO: (Togo). -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais moi aussi remercier lc représentant des Pays-Bas  d'avoir fait celte proposition qui, provisoirement, nous tire d'embarras ; nous espérons qu'il en  sera effectivement tenu compte lorsque le Directeur général examinera ce point, Merci, Madame  la Présidente.
38.1 The PRESIDENT:  Every speaker seema to agree with the amendment of the Netherlands. Now, can I take the  resolution contained in paragraph 31, ss amended by the Netherlands, as adopted? It is adopted,
38,2 1 give the floor to the Iieyuty Director-General for an interpretation,
39, Mr, FOBES (Deputy Director-General):  Madam President, the Director-General will, of course, take due note of this invitation and
39 will make à very honest effort to fulfil the desire expressed by the General Conference, He will  do that, of course, in consultation with the Executive Board, which at almost every one of its  sessions had to heur a report from the Divector-General concerning adjustments to the Programme  and Budget. It is true that those adjustnients are usually cute or savings made in order to deal  with inflation and other such problems, But we will faithfully bring to the attention of the Executiv  Board at each gession, when we propose adjustments in the Programme and Budget, this particu-  lar clause as just adopted by the General Conference.
40,1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you,  Paragraph 34
40.2 The Commission recommended that the General Conference take note of the work plan con-  tained in this paragraph. 1 take it that we have taken note.  Section 3, 41 - Preservation and Presentation of Monuments and Sites  Paragraph 35
40.3 The Commission recommended by 82 votes to none, with one abstention, that the General  Conference adopt resolution 3. 41, Does anybody request a vote on this resolution? Adopted.  Paragraph 36
40.4 The Commission recommended by 78 votes to none, with three abstentions, that the General  Conference adopt this resolution. Does anybody request a vote on the resolution? Adopted.  Paragraph 37
40.5 The Commission recommended by 65 to none, with 10 abstentions, that the General Con-  ference adopt this resolution. Does anybody ask for a formal vote? No? It is adopted,  Paragraph 38
40.6 By 70 votes to none, with one abstention, the Commission recommended that the General  Conference adopt this resolution. Doee anybody ask for a formal vote on the resolution? No?  It 1s adopted,
40,7 The Chairman of the Commission has the floor.
41, El Sr. BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia) (Presidente de la Comision III):  Sefiora Presidenta, con su venia quisiera informar a la Conferencia General, que se ha reci-  bido un cable de una importantfsima organizacién italiana, "Italia Nostra", en el cual expresa el  deseo de que la Unesco continde su obra por la restauraclôén de Venecia, Muchas gracias,  {41) Mr. BETANCUR ME}A (Colombia), {Chairman of Commission 111) {Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President, with your permission ! should like to Inform the General Conference that | have  received a telagrarn from a very important Italian organization, "ltalla Nostra”, expressing the desire  that Unesco should continue (ts work for the restoration of Venice. Thank you,
42,1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you,  Paragraph 39
42.2 The Commission took note of the work plan for Section 3, 4). I take it as noted.  Section 3, 42 - Development of Museums, Establishment and Application of International Standards  corcerning the Cultural Heritage  Paragraph 41
42.3 The Commission recommended by 73 to none, with 2 abatentions, that the General Conference  adopt this resolution, Does anybody ask for a formal vote on the resolution? Adopted.  Paragraph 42
42.4 The Commission recommended by 46 votes to none, with 4 abstentions, that the General  Conference adopt this resolution, Does anybody ask for a formal vote on the resolution? Adopted,  Paragraph 43
42.6 By 86 votes to none, with 2 abstentions, the Commission recominended that the General  Conference adopt this resolution, Does anybody ask for a formal vote on 1? Adopted.
42,6 Tie Commission took note of the wor plan for Section 3, 42. I take it as noted,  Item 28 - Desirability of adopting an international instrument on the exchange of original objects  and specimens ainong institutions in different countries  Paragraph 47
42,7 Fy 60 votes to none, with 12 abstentions, the Commission recommended that the General  Conferance adopt this resolution, Does anybody ask for » formal vote on the resolution? Adopted.  Item 2!) - Desirability of adopting an international instrument on the preservation of historic quar-  ters, towns and sites and their integration into a modern environment  Paragraph 48
42,8 By 71 votes to none, with 1 abstention, the Commission recommended that the General Con-  ference adopt this resolution. Does anybody ark for a formal vote on it? Adopted.  Item 30 - Desirability of adopting an international instrument on action to ensure that the people  at large have free, democratic access to culture and participate actively in the cultural  life of society  Paragraph 49
42.9 By 64 notes to 5, with 15 abstentions, the Commission recommended that the General Con-  ference adopt this resolution, I pui the resolution to the vote.  (The vote was taken by show of hands. }
42,10 The resolution has been adopted by 94 votes to 4, with 6 abstentions,  Item 67 - Contribution of Unesco to the return of cultural property to countries that have been  victims of de facto expropriation  Paragraph 50
42,11 By 65 votes to none, with 15 abstentions, the Commission recommended that the General  Conference adopt this resolution, Does anybody ask for a formal vote on the resolution? The  delegate of the United Kingdom.
43, Mr. McCULLOCH (United Kingdom):  Madam President, I would be grateful if we could have a formal vote on this draft resolution.  Thank you,
44,1 The PRESIDENT:  I put to the vote the resolution under item 67,  (The vote was taken by show of hands, }
44,2 ‘The resolution has been adopted by 84 votes to none with 22 abstentions, The delegate of  the United Xiagdom has the floor.
45, Mr, McGULLOCH (United Kingdom):  Thank you, Madam President. I should like to make it clear that my government's abstention  on this item is not directed against the practical proposals which are contained in the operative  paragraph of the resolution, Thank you,
46, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of Denmark has the floor,
47, Mr, HANSEN (Denmark):  Madam President, 1 just want to add that tha Danish delegation abstained for the same reasons  as expressed by the delegate of the United Kingdom. Thank you, Madar President,
48,1 The PRESIDENT:  Than you,  Item 61 - Implementation of the resolutions of the General Conference and decisions of the Execu-  tive Board concerning the protection of cultural property in Jerusalem
48.2 Ledies and gentlemen, you will remember that Commission IIt had a very long and thorough  debate on this question, I belleve that none of you wishes to reopen or repeat the debate, There-  fore, I ehould like to propose to you that we adopt a time limit of five minutes for all sp:akers  taking part in the debate. Is there any objection to my proposal? It is agreed,
48,3 The Commission recommended by 54 votes to 21, with 25 abstentions, that the General Con-  ference adopt the resolution proposed under this item 47.1. 1have already several speakers on  my list, I give the floor to the {irst speaker, the delegate of Israel,
49,1 Mr. BAR-YAACOV (Israel): ’  Thank you, Madam President. I will try to keep within the time-limit you have just decided  upon,
49,2 I want to take up a point which arose towards the end of the discussion in the Commission  and which could not be fully developed there. It also has a reference to a phrase in the resolution  before us, ostensibly quoting a sentence from the resolution adopted at the 94th session of the  Executive Board submitiing the matter to this General Conference, namely ‘to take such appro-  priate measures as are within its competence’. By the way, Madam President, the sentence in  the resolution before us fs not a completely accurate quotation from the Executive Board's  decision.
49.3 The point I wish to make, however, Madam President, is that this resolution before us now  is ultra vires of the Constitution, There is no provision in the Constitution for the suspension of  the exercise of members! rights and privileges, except in two cases, neither of which applies  nere, One 1s the case where a member's rights and privileges are suapended by the United Nations,  and the other is when a member is in arrears with its contributions,
49.4 In fact, {it is interesting, and rather intriguing, to point out that in the so-called precedent  from the fourteenth session of the General Conference, in the case of Portugal, the Legal Commit-  tee of the Conference upheld the contention that the measures then proposed were outwith the  constitutional prescriptions. I think the distinguished delegate of France at that session was one  of the foremost protagonists of this reading of the Constitution. At that time, the Conference  voted to reject the Legal Committee's findings, and the basic argument used for this position put  forward by numerous delegates, including Hungary, the Ukraine etc,, was that there was a specific  decision of the General Assembly of the United Nations calling upon Specialized Agencies to withhold  assistance from the country concerned. And according to these representatives it was fulfilment  of that so-called mandate from the General Assembly of the United Nations that obliged Unesco to  act even in the absence of specific sanction legislation in its own Constitution,
49,5 1 recall all this, Madam President, because it 1s most relevant to the situation In the pre-  sent instance, Only, in this case, here, we have neither a mandate from our Constitution nor a  request in the form of a General Assembly resolution. It Is surely, Madam President, a slippery  downhill road to play ducks and drakes with the legal foundation on which the heise of Unesco fs  built. Or have we reached a stage where it will be sald of us: "Might is right. My votes are  more than your votes, thercfcre my law fa better than your law"?
49,6 This resolution, Madan President, is a mass of contentious misrepresentations seeking to  masquerade as facts, It tals of Israel acting contrary to the aims of the Constitution, but it does  not mention one sentence or one word of the Constitution which te presumably being breached, It  talke of Isract altering historical features of the City of Jerusalem, when not one whit of evidence  cm substantiate that charge, Indeed the objective outside experts, whether as representatives of  the Director-General or of Comminsioners-General under The Hague Convention, have never made  any such charge, The resolution talks of excavations which constitute a danger to monuments,  when the objective outsitle observers deny completely that any such danger exists, The resolution  throws around phrases ‘ike ‘illegal occupation’ in order to create an emotional prejudice, quite  unsubstantiated by any due process or valid international decision, It quotes a decision of the  seventeenth ségsion of the General Conference which invited the Director-General to continue his  efforts to establish ths effective presence of Unesco in the City of Jerusalem. But the resolution  omits to quote what the Director-General said about the resolution, (The President indicated that  the speaker's time was up. )
49.7 In fact, Madem President, one has the strange feeling that this resolution is not intended only  to attack a member, but in order to attack it, attacks the Director-General himéalf and his repre-  sentatives, I do not expect to convert the sponsors of this motion, driving blindly forward on the  well-oiled political machine, heedless of the damage they do to the international order, to decency  and fair-play. 1 would appeal, however, to those others who have no axe to grind: Do nol give  your hand to an act which 16 damaging to the spirit of the Organization, which would be scen as a  purely political move motivated by hate and 2nmity, The Image of Unesco will be tarnished ih the  eyes of all decent people, writers, artists, musicians, scientists, the people who are your con-  stituents, I move the réfection of this resolution.
50, The PRESIDENT: ;  I thank the delegate of Israel, and I glve the floor to the delegate of Mexico.
(51.1) Mr, CUEVAS CANCINO { Mexico) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President: this {tern of the agenda deals with a question which has been the subject of many  proposals and requires, on the part of all of us who care for Unesco, clear thinking and impartial judge-  ment. This impartiality extends not only to Member States but also to all those who have had something  to do with Unesco and who have its future at heart,
(51.2) I therefore venture, Madam President, to submit lo the Secretariat, for consideration by the  Gereral Conference, the following draft resolution which | shall read out: -  "The General Conference,  Bearing in mind that the obligations of the members of the Secretariat towards the international  community, set forth fn the Constitution of Unesco, particularly in Article VI, extend for a con-  siderable time after the termination of their respective contracts,     Declares:  that all international civil servants ate under an obligation lo refrain from giving expression  to opinions which could Influence the debates of the Genera) Conference when it 1s in session,  that this obligation fs all the greater for the former Directors-General, who cannot make  public statements of opinion without affecting the very future of Unesco;  Requests the Director-Gineral to bring thie obligation once more to the attention of all the senfor  officials of Unesco who lave ceased to exercise thelr functions,"  Thank you, Madam Presidert,
52, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Mexico, and I give the floor to the delegate of Venezuela,
(53,1) Mr. DE SOLA {Veneruela) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you, Madam President: When Commission 11] discussed the proposal which is now under con-  sideration, our delegation raised the legal probelm of the violation of Unesco's Constitution in the event of  that proposal Leing received favourably, We already explained the reasons on that occasion and, in view  of the limited time available, we do not wish to dwell on them further, But we do wish to recall that, if  we violate these provisions of the Constitution, we are also violating a universal principle which has been  the subject of much argument and which constitutes an achievement of civilization and culture - the prin-  ciple of nulla pena sine lege, We are establishing a sanction without the corresponding law which specifies  the crime and the extent of the penalty, :
(53,2) Venezuela fe a smal) nation which has friendly relations both with the Arab countries proposing the  resolution and with Israel, and we wish to appeal to our friends on both sides to remember that the strength  of small counirfes like ours lies in respect for legal principles, We do not possess armies or forces cap-  able of defending our right, The only force on which we can rely fn order to restrain the appetites of  others la to hold firmly to the efficacy of principles,
(83,3) tn that respect Venezuela has always followed a consistent policy. The situation In my country has  not changed with regard to of), We have nol wished our international relations to become involved with the  oil fssue, On the contrary we have considered that the improvement in the economic situation since we  have chiaired, after @ long contest with our friends the OPEC countries, better prices for our petro), has  riade us neither stronger nor less vulnerable, and we therefore have to continue, ir all spheres and in all  International forums, to defend those principles which constitute our only safeguard,  {53.4) We Îteo wish to add today that we consider that, from the point of view of substance, this ie per-  haps the least opportune moment to take the declafon with which we aye concerned, since, from the report  of the Director-General and the additional information »hich the Deputy Director -General has given orally,  it fu clear that the situation has notably improved, So that what the international community should do is  to request Increasingly strong representation of Unesco in the cllÿ of Jerusalem, The words of this report  should be recalled and repeated: "But It is essential thal Israel should feel and be strongly and constantly
360   aware of the concern of international public opinion for the conservation of the historical and cultural  heritage of Jerusalem". A request to this effect must thérefore be made to Irrael, but the presence of  Unesco should be maintained within Jerusalem, for the benefit of the whole community. Unesco must  carry out this task of rapprochement in a spirit of serenity aad calm, for Unesco should be a kind of oasis  where the various cultures, religions and fdeologies can meet for the achizcvement of the Organization's  lofty sims of bringing men together through science, culture and education.
(53,5) The leader of the Palestine Liberation Movement, Yasser Arafat, sald recently in one of his state-  ments to the press: "We are not the enemies of the Jaws; it should not be forgotten that both we and the  Jews are of the Semitic race”, This collaboration between Jews and Arabs has historical antecedents,  and In many periods they have been able to live together harmoniously, as, for example, at the lime of the  Arab domination in Spain, when the great philosopher Maimonides, the so-called Saint Thomas of Judaism,  wrote the best part of his work In Arable,
(53.6) In conclusion, Madam President, I should like merely to say that we must also take account of the  expreseions of international opinion that have appeaved in the French press, in statements by eminent  personalities such as René Cassin, Aron, Sartre, Father Michel Iticquet and others, and which have  shown precisely how the outside world has reacterl to’ the decision taken by the Commission and which it  is now proposed to ratify,
(53.7) In the name of the traditional friendship which Venezuela has maintained with the Arab countries  and with Israel, we appeal to our Arab friends to reflect for a moment and see whether the operative part  of this resolution may be retained but with the deletion of the last paragraph, which refers to a penalty  which would perhaps tend to eliminate the presence of Unesco In Jerusalem, in which we are'all interested,  Thank you.
54, The PRESIDENT: ,  I thank the delegate of Venezuela. I have the following speakers on my list: Malawi, Egypt,  Niger, Guinea, Algeria, Sudan. 1 give the floor to the delegate of Malawi.
55,1 Mr, KHOZA (Malawi):  Madam President, Malawi would like to reiterate its stand in regard to the operative para-  graph in question in the resolution in paragraph 51. Whereas we feel that it is an inalienable  right-that the cultural, historical and raligious values of the City of Jerusalem should be’ preserved,  we think, however, that the decision of Commission III was incompatible with the true spirit and  functions of Unesco. Unesco exists to promote the education, scientific and cultural interests of  Member States; it is not a forum for advancing ideological or political differences.
55.2 In terms of Malawi's policy of contact vnd dialogue in eliminating misunderstanding or dif-  ferences that may be prevalent among members of the same family of nations, we believe that the  Jerusalem problem, being one of a cultural, historic and religious nature, and not a political  fssue, would have been solved through a dialogue between the two sides involved, The total ostra-  cization of Israel, which may be the case if the resolution passes, is a political decision. I think  this is outside the competence of Unesco, and something that should have been done at the United  Nations and not at Uneaco.
55.3 Contact and dialogue, Madam President, are strong instruments in bringing about peace and  {nternational understanding, not boycott and isolation, Madam President, we do not intend to  indulge in the effectiveness of the last two criteria, boycott and isolation, in solving international  problems, We are sure that the distinguished delegates here know this very well, Thank you,  Madam President,
56, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Malawi, and I give the floor to the delegate of Egypt.  (a) JS cual put wend Sul well Do VON  bls pay Boley à AUS pus yf WOE dy a) OVP Gis) OÙ sel à edt Tul  Aie I JU LUN Vin pope tiie Writ say 1 pa Wy ob 6 lad) Gen 6 GUN ALUN Dyas  PRVIRTIACT IR I OR FURS 35 6 WG | EPR TNE WL PERSE 00 on St U9) I NI PN VST SHY  «mesures préventives conditionnelles JUy hiss *Lal Vyme 3a JAI 13a yl adsl) Jyudt ald  act, Lys ob ola ¥agldl ol pada cos Jung À byt Gb alee ol WWE LUN J oily
6 hat dd ge poset oliadly JLodl thE US Lb AS à pli! ks gl dks thal  L—agob) 131 6 200) Gann à eld ay opldl Lott eh Sky 6 gdp dl hen pliasl pus
(57.1) Mr. AHMED CHAMS ELDINE EL-WAKIL (Egypt) (Translation from the Arablo): '  Madam President, in the hope that I shall manage to restrict myself to a speech of five minutes, i  shall make only à few brief remarks. Firstly, Madam President, the delegation of Egypt which had the  honour of introducing this draft resolution in Commission Ill and which will also explain fta vote at the  end of this meeting, has already made very clear that what the co-sponsors of the resolution are calling  for te merely provisional preventive action - "mesures préventives condltionelles'’, Paragraph $ makes
361   it clear that this action is conditional whereas sanctions, as lawyers are aware, are not subject to con-  ditions, This action falls within the sphere of the implementation of the programme and has been forced  on us by lerael's continuing stubborn and obdurate failure to respect the dignily of Unesco and to give  effect to the resolutions of the General Conference, Nevertheless, Madam President, if we wished to  impose sanctions, the Constitution of Unesco and the resolutions of the General Assembly of the United  Nations authorize such action: on this point ! refer to resolution 3092 adopted on 7 December 1973 by  the General Assembly of the United Nationa, Permit me to read part of it in English,
57,2 We reaffirm that all measures taken by Israel to chargé the physical character, demographie  composition, Institutional structure or the status of the occupied territories or any part thereof,  are riull and void, We call upon all States, International organizations, and the Specialized Agen-  cles, not to recognize any changes carried out by Israel in the occupled territories, and to avoid  actions including actions in the field of ald, which might be used by Israel in its pursuit of the  policies and practices referred to in the present resolution,  sty 6 aU) AL gies Lt Sig) die Ub hed) Sue à Osi) Ral om —ovor  Os Ly sclyladl Gb Jp di Gs Ld RU hie LJ dtd ait lb on  iy à gual! plaid! ol à Ingres plan Ÿ Yelle JSonle ol on Lo L3G smd  xls dl sda Ji dus ol LW clbudl dda BB) qua € Geld! JSS  Vpn Wile sb ipl ol Wd wien wd 5 ced oil sins pa Lop —ovat  Lb us Gass Lae Lu lil Sol oS oc Lie JL iW) pews dy Cds JI es  vas spinal 45 CLASS a Lied! Gl pads € SUI eal Ge Bai  day 515 chefs JL ea le LT JER JRO TY oat CCI 6 al de € Lits — S71  a JLAJ1 lin FL ui olan loa y oo day or 8 Apai Si Ci AIl gust opel 4B
(57.3) Furthermore, Madam President, Unesco is empowered by its Constitution t6 exercise control and  is one of à number of internalfonal organizations which are empowered to exercine control; it is entitled to  obtain information, to ensure its presence in the territory and lo exercise its full powers in order to  secure respect for Its Constitution, The competence which fe implicit in the Constitution in accordance  with all precedents authorizes such international organizations to adopt measures such as these.
(57.4) 1 also made it clear in Commission 111, Madam President, that the Hague Convention neither refers  to excavations nor authorizes a State to carry out excavations; but Article 5 of the Convention does refer to  safeguarding and preserving cultural property and not to excavation, digging or destruction.
(57.5) Lastly, Madam President, I shall take the liberty of reading a short passage from a distressing  article written by a man whom all of us respect, which I read this afternoon in a French newspaper. At  the end of this article the author says, and | quote in French:
57,6 Les modifications qui se sont produites depuis 1967 dans l'aspect du site et dans l'atmos-  phere de la ville sont très sérieuses, Si cette évolution se poursuivait, lu personnalité de Jéru-  salem, gon charme unique, l'extraordinaire rayonnement physique de sa spiritualité seraient  sans doute condamnés à brève échéance.  I [PORSWPEY [FIVE due AP = 78 TTL WOR JU DRT RF Jl WO 5 des CO vp
(57.7) Madam President, 1 shall end with this paragraph which proves that a major erime {s being com.  mitted by those who are altering the features of the City of Jerusalem, Thank you,
58, The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the delegate of Egypt and 1 give the floor to the delegate of Niger.
59.1 M. ABDOU (Niger). - .  Madame la Présidente, la modeste délégation du Niger apporte un appui sans réserve à ce  que vient de dire le délégué de l'Egypte, En effet, Madame la Présidente, la question de Jéru-  salem - ville pourtant trbs éloignée de nos pays d'Afrique - nous tient particulièrement à coeur  parce qu'elle pose une question de justice sociale et que c'est avant tout de la justice gociala que  s'inspire la politique de mon gouvernement,
59,2 Telle est, Madame la Présidente, là raison pour laquelle 1a délégation du Niger appuie la  résolution ii l'étude et souhaite qu'elle soit adoptéo à l'unanimité par 1a Conférence générale, Je  vous remercie,
60, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Niger and 1 give the floor to the delegate of Guinea,
61.1 M, CAMARA (Guinée). -  Madamo la Présidente, je tAcheral d'ôtro très bref, pulsque la question a défà été assez lon-  guement discutée,
61.2 Nous aurions aimé qu'il n'y ait pas de nouveau débat en séance plénière et que nous puissions 3  passer immédiatement au vote,
61.3 Mais, puisque les choses ne se sont pas passées ainsi, nous voudrions dire rapidement ce  que nous pensons de certains des problèmes qui ont été évoqués,
61,4 Nous voudrions tout d'abord poser la question suivante ; Qui dono salit l'image de notre  Organisation ? Est-ce ceux qui demandent que l'on applique les principes memes dont elle s'ins-  pire, autrement dit que l'on oeuvre pour la paix et le progrès ? Ou bien est-ce ceux qui refusent  d'appliquer les résolutions que nous avons votées et de tenir compte des appels qui, depuis 1968,  ont été lancés du haut de cette tribune par de nombreuses délégations ?
61,5 Qui donc menace notre institution ? Est-ce les pays du Tiers Monde dont les appels ont été  traités par le mépris ? Ou bien est-ce ceux qui font pardfire dans les journaux - et notamment  dans-les journaux français que j'ai actuellement l'occasion de lire - des articles qui visent à atliser  la haine entre les races et dans lesquels on accuse les Arabes d'etre les bourreaux du peuple juif ?  Nous nous rangeons, quant à nous, parmi les peuples qui ont subi, tout autant que les Juifs, les  effets du capitalisme et de l'impérialisme, C'est pourquoi nous souhaitons lancer un appel au  peuple juif, afin qu'il comprenne de quel côté se trouve la raison,
61,6 Donc, s'il y a un appel à lancer, ce n'est pas aux Arabes qu'il faut l'adresser ; c'est à Israël  et à tous ceux qui écrivent des articles enflammés pour condamner la position qu'ont prise à l'égard  d'Israël les peuples arabes ; et il y a parmi les auteurs de ces articles un certain nombre de per-  sonnalités qui ont ainsi perdu notre estime et que nous nous refuserions aujourd'hui à saluer.
61.7 Nous pensons d'autre part que l'Unesco aura toujours les moyens de s'informer de l’évolu-  tion de la situation à Jérusalem, car elle arrive, nous le savons, a se tenir au courant de ce qui  se passe dans tous les pays du monde, même en afrique du Sud, où elle n'est pas matériellement  présente.
61.8 Nous pensons enfin qu'il ne s'agit pas d'un problème uniquement politique et que la situation  qui règne à Jérusalem présente certains aspects que la communauté internationale ne devrait pas  sous-estimer, Il est en effet indispensable, pour l'avenir de bien des civilisations, que cette ville  roste la ville de trois entités, de trois communautés, de trois religions,
61.9 Si nous langons un appel et si nous appuyons le résolution qui nous est soumise, c'est pour  qu'Israël participe à l'effort de toute la communauté internationale et pour que Jérusalem reste la  .ville du monde entier, Je vous remercie, Madaine la Présidente,
62, The PRESIDENT: ;  I thank the delegate of Guihea and I give the floor to the delegate of Costa Rica,
(63,1) Mr, SOTO (Costa Rica) (Transletion from the Spanish):  Madam President, Costa Rica is a very small country and possibly ont of the few countries remaining  in the world which hae no army, It1is a basically democratic country - a fact which we value greatly, We  have friendly relations with the Arab countries and with Israel, but over and above that, we are upholders  of legal principles, Consequently, It seema to us that the condemnation contained in the resolution may  not be justified at this moment for Unesco,
(63,2) With respect, we wish therefore to associate ourselves with the statement of the delegate of Vene-  zuela, In which he appealed to the conscience of delegates, with the aim of having this provision deleted.  That is the position of the delegation of Costa Rica.
64, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the dele, ate of Costa Rica and I give the floor to the delegate of Peru,
(65,1) Mr, CHIAPPO (Peru) {Translation from the Spanish): -  Madam President, I am going to make specific reference to two matters, Firstly, we consider as  inacceptable the proposal made by the delegation of Mexico, which implies a censure that we do not con-  sider loyal with regard to the former Director-General René Maheu, who has published a fine, highly  relevant article which throws light on the subject, Secondly, we Intend fo give full support to the draft  resolutfon, as approved in Commission Ill, pointing out that, regrettably, Unesco has no other weapons  than condemnation and the refusal to provide assistance,
(65.2) It seems to us that, up to the present, fsrael has lacked in respect for the Islamic and Christian  cultures; it lacks in respect for Unesco. The argument that a country cannot be isolated is a false argu.  ment on the part of whoever invokes it, since Cuba has been isglated by order of the imperialist powers  for more than fifteen years, and not only with regard to culture but also in the economic sector, so that  Îts people have suffered hunger; this argument therefore lacks any moral force,
(65,3) Madam President, my country supports the draft resolution as submitted by the Commission,  Thank you.
66, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Peru, and I give the floor to the delegate of Cuba,
(67.1) Mr. LE RIVEREND (Cuba) (Translation from the Spanish):  Thank you Madam President, ! shall not exceed the time-limit and may even not speak for so long.
1 think we would all prefer that the debate should not bé reopened, since this subject was discussed at  length And studied in depth by the Commission which had to deal with it In the first instance,
(67,2) However, as several arguments have now been put forward, we think that we should give our opinion  on then, Firstly, the delegation of the country affected by this proposal says that there is no legal text  under which it may be condemned, We do not mean to embark on a discussion, but we will put the question  the other way round, There is no legal text but there may be a large number of crimes and, since there is  no legal text, although there are principles In Unesco and throughout the United Nations system, such  crimes continue to be committed, for the whole system of Unesco would have to be changed, along with all  Its basic texts, to enable us to establish the existence of crimes which we know to exist,  El
(67,3) Secondly;.the argument of understanding: ft is obvious that we are all In favour of understanding;  of this there Is no doubt; we all prefer that there should be agreement In whatever direction; that is why  we are assembled here today, But understanding takes on a very strange meaning in this case, A coun-  try can fail to understand and, to put it frankly, can systematically ignore the agreements reached by an  organisation,
(67,4) Well then, does that organization have to be systematically understanding iñ the face of such dis.  respect and breach of duty? , We have here two very clear and highly contradictory positions: there are  crimes but there {8 no law, and consequently the crimes may continué to be committed; there muat be  understanding but there {s one country which does not have If, whereas Unesco and the other nations are  expected to show understanding and {6 authorfze the said country to continue in the same way,
(67.5) For these reasons, Madam President, our delegdtion will vote on this occasion as it voted previ-  ously, in favour of the proposal as submitted to the General Conference, Thank you,
68. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Cuba and I give the floor to the delegate of Iraq.  (Bad) yuan ole HU 598 set — 11)  OÙ 1 peas on Tage pum 28) Ans oS «6 spl 3e XIE CL Gl ui Ga  oF Il SLI pny wd oh à Rell) Less Sy ently GI R20 oY pa eed ped) dla L  Pome ba Li Gas Lal à cb Lil cd dis J sb) oly 6 Dual WY Ge Sa  JIS LI OU 1 PY FER SENN TIN | A RN VIL ROR 6 GO à ASIN BA TI PET IPP. SE | J WPA
4 pELaJlade on Shell Vin ge cual Gol dow aS LL SNA des Wy (Ls gs ob  PARI SU) Ny WPS VOIPRTIVA as TRI KIT PITY SLI "I IE Les PER SOW RH IP  coo gl plod Gea psd) atl Tey Te LLU dda Gs i Toe wale  Ly gril plan puis Jools Jebel of 30 à iid) lin oo pelo! al, bool VON  (orl pia Wdsdl dad! Cl od ly haipepaSl dla YE puylly uggs) had  IAA à Game Le pr ooo BE Lagi sSainall ae ob 6 ad! oo cand! lia cuss, ol  pd ony bupsd is Gu bl abil US Geil US BUG Fes gh Jebel sé CBI dul  dy 5 Geeehadil CHI, CWB ELLA Gove Lau Go flay GAS Val, Gal  ebb is OURS oer pay all oe JE Gl Pa Brey AS 7 pps Beg LY Gian  UY] APY SC 3 dhe Ge SE ULY| IPR NYCH pl Sp SOW Sage SIN RUSE JENS | JOC  Ls ay ce Bnd! Js opadt Sab ol Le pausl CAL wy Ÿ Ua day Laws on dad  Uo Lalo cpimbn Gros puis Vie ob or Lehiy € dashas Gimall ain oS à days Geo 5 A4  Co 6 Siew La Lal, oe 58 L JS us flop andl ola LOY 5 LY à 2596  a ls 6 pele oad! GS Lele WG be cos pall ws LalS GLY Wha ya  Mat 6 OU FY | RF OL JOR + I PAPC EC NS WESUURIN | SALON ACY SA WOR TOS, 1 JCS PA SPY JOP TA |  as Bain Who Wd yo koh polis phe ond plait ls 6 Rina Rupp! Gardes  ASL chs Gi ois ld LIE I ses
(69,1) Mr, AZIZ AJ,-HAJ ALI HAIDER (Iraq) (Translation from the Arabic):  Madam President, we apologize for asking for the floor once again but some points which have been  raised call for further clarification. One fact which some speakers have tried to obscure is that the ques-  tion which was discussed and settled In Commission concerned the existence of resolutions adopted by  Unesco and by the United Nattons and the fact that Israel has not given effect to these resolutions but has  persistently infringed them thereby undeniably Imperilling Unesco and ite mizsion. It Is therefore not  logical for Unesco to continue 1 disregard this persistent infringement of such resolutions and this affront  to the unanimous wishes of public opinion. Silence about this stubborness and these crimes weakens  Unesco, the Inviolability of the Organization's principles, The delegate of Israel has time and again  repeated in your presence, with his customary arrogance, that his government is continuing to violate the  resolutions, now on the pretext of construction and now on the pretext of development, and so forth,
(69.2) What the advocates of this point of view disregard Is that Israel fs continuing to alter the features  of Jerusalem for the colonialist and Zionist plan of Judaization and expansion and it is @ mockery of the  truth and cf people's Intelligence for the delegate to speak of rights and for him to accuse Unesco of giving  In to force. Who, Madam President, are the champions of force apart from Israel which has occupied by  force the whole of Jerusalem, the whole of Palestine, and other Arab territory besides? And who other  thai Israel dally bombs such a country as Lebanon? And who elee crushes Palestinian students under their  tanks because they demand the restitution of their human tights and their country's freedom? How do such  people dare to speak of righis when they burn the corpses of the dead in the very streets? And who is  threatening'Unescd and the United Nations and \héir misaion, othér than those who dre violating their reso-  lutions, thereby weakening their prestige and that of their pronouncements? One of them asked us to take  lesson in hèw (0 learn the truth from certain Westera newspapers; bul these riewspapers are well known  and we regret to say from this rostrum that'they ar» tendentious newspapers and that those who write for  them are made vindictive by thelr. black racle)iat r ,ncour against everything Arab. Madam President,  this 1s a raclalist war organized In order to Incite malice against the Arabs under the pretext df éombeting  *  anpl-Semitism, ‘However the Arabs are Semitic 7nd this campaign fe thé latest vargion of anti-Semitism -  it is Zionist anti-Semitiem. We have more than once emphasized, and have demonstrated in praclice, that  we draw a dittinelion between Judaism ‘and Zibrism nd that {lie ‘stiuggle Ts ndf 4 struggle between races  or religions bat the actin of an aggressive Sta'e which persiste in’ defying world publie opinion and in  €  infringing its resolutions, Thank you. PS '  ¥
70, The PRÉSIDENT;  I thank the delogate of Iraq and I give the floor to the delegate of Nigeria.
39 71.1 Mr. HARRIMAN (Nigeria): . ‘  Madam President, the Nigerian delegation has comie Into this controversy for very obvious  reasons; and to make my point very clearly it is my wish and’the wish of my delegation to congra-  tulate the co-spongors of the resolution before us for the succinèt manner in which it has been  presented; They have taken much trouble to rémind us, and to put us into the historical perspec-  tive, of all the efforts made by Unesco, by the Director-General's missions, to get Israel to  comply with the general feeling of Unesco particularly as expressed at the fifteenth session of jhe  General Conference. I wish also to underscore its criticisms for those who have not read the  report. The paragraphs in the draft resolution regarding the reports of the Director-General's  representative, as adopled by the Executive Board, clearly state that Israel persists, in spite of  all our appeals to that country, in not complying with the relevant resolutiona and the tendencies  of feeling in Unesco about activities in Jerusalem.
71,2 My delegation expected that Israel would come forward to convince us of actions taken, since  all the efforts and appeals have been made to stem the turn of activities in Jerusalem, rather than  to circumvent the lssifes by resort to unrealistié, legal and technical red hefrings: My delégation  and Nigeria may not feel strongly about issues that are remote,’ But we do feel strongly about  such issues of religion which concern the great majority of Africans and which we can relate to -  the historical sufferings which we have experienced in Africa where resolutions are made, accepted  and ignored because of support from other major world powers. Nigeria will vote as strongly for  this resolution as if it were able to vote with four limbs,
72, “The PRESIDENT: 0.  I thank the delegate of Nigeria and I give the floor to the delegate of Lebanon.
73, M. STETIE (Liban). - oo ;  . Madame la Présidente, j'appartiens à un pays ouvert, multireligieux, infinement tolérant,  qu'Israël bombarde chaque jour. Aussi, ne s'agit-il pas pour moi de faire du sentiment, comme  certaines délégations rious y invitent. ‘La situation à nos yeux est claire ; ce problème dont nous  débattôns, nous le savons tous, ne date pas-d'hièr : cela fait des années, depuis 1967, qu'aussi  bien au sein de la Conférence générale qu'au sein du Conseil exécutif, çe problème-là est revenu  sur le tapis. Dés décisions, des résolutions, ont été adoptées par ces deux instances de 1'Unesco,  mais n'ont jamais êt6 appliquées pat les autorités israéliennes, auxquelles ne peut être attribué  aucun fait palpable qui vaille la peine d'être mentionné comme lé témoignage d'un certain respect,  fut-il tardif, à l'égard des décisions de l'Organisation. Pour nous le temps de la patience est  passé ; et ce n'est pas sur un coup de tète, ce n'est pas avec légèrete, que deg dizaines de signa-  taires du projet de résolution ont pris sur eux de demander à l'encontre d'Israël une sanction qu'il  faut bien dire limitée et conditionnelle. Où serait donc, Madame la Présidente, l'autorité de notre  Organisation si celle-ci devait être perpétuellement bafouée sans jamais oser réagir parce qu'elle  croirait devoir rester fidèle à un humanitarisme de bon aloi qui n'est plus de mise là où l'on exile  et martyrise un peuple, là où des valeurs fondamentales sont foulées aux pieds, là où les signes  les plus vénérables du génie spirituel de l'homme sont haineuseument défigurés, là où s'exerce  enfin une occupation abusive, occupation du Heu temporel, occupation et annexion du lieu spirituel ?  La vie, dans sa sagesse, réagit à toute agression qui la violente ou la mutile. Réagir, pour notre  Organisation, c'est aujourd'hui mettre un terme au défi d'Israël, qui dure déjà depuis plusieurs  années et à l'égard duquel, jusqu'ici, nous nous sommes montrés par trop conciliants. Réagir,  c'est non pas châtier le membre malade, ron pas nous en séparer définitivement - ce n'est pas du  tout l'esprit du projet de résolution - ; c'est le traiter énergiquem-nt pour qu'il guérisse avant  qu'il ne communique son mal au rente du corps, i l'ensemble dr, notre Organisation, Voilà l'es-  prit - à notre sens, éminemment sain - dana lequel ce projet dé résolution a déjà été approuvé par  la commission compétente, Merci, Madame ia Présidente.
74, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Lebanon, and I give the floor to the delegate of Sudan,  (olvsel) pebadl 6 wan) upd! yp)  adil g Sy 6 oY aS GI padsdl oo eyusdl clint Gye ff oF 6 IS] dae  Lari al DUA garde Des dl pay oY, Yi Bb oo 30500 Bal) boy cud Wis BLE  ear—2d Bylaadl CSL pi ol Shan LS) Lpeutdl digue (ml oe MBA cls Glin pail pnd
45 Lead ble ol Shad SS Gale bs Bhs Ball LW Ja pe ppd ob LLM  rb BU J piped pulps ge Bel lle ams om sup Jods JAN ail hal à cosy  hy unde dln way 5 gg pend! posit (J Cup plats JAI eden Sparc Lede ED Sy  caer Wsals Ul Baal Seal cle ui) cageal] lady Ball poy Jan Le 6 equal  gpl CPL say JB SE plan VU Lan J eyasdl ag) caf Le a lad) gies — our  ol um edn Bll als $l tll Jilin) Abbas Jo Jib! au Las ul  ISBN, WEY] IY | SRN 95 Last pl JU) y) eus) J CY CY J PPE TT IR ES J JT JP JS  rial Toba a pie uly 6 Sisal jit all asl) aghsll PL, Gang! SSL  PPX | JO JRC USE PAU | A JU SCO) | IF JY WC] JOLIN OCI FPR KL POOL
(15.1) Mr,: AHMED ABDEL AZIM (Sudan) (Translation from the Arabic): Lo NEL . 39  Madam President, | had the honour of opening the discussion in Commission 111 of the subject which  we are nei debating and | offered the distinguished Commission an pxplanation of the method which some  of the co-sponsors of the draft resolution thought should be followed, in submitting the draft, namely dis-  cussion of varfous aspecld of the City of Jerusalem, We were exp:cilig that the opponents of the draft  tesolution would follow the same procedure so that we shéuld rap/dly come toa decision In Commission.  * However, the long drawn out process which we tried to avoid In'fact éccurred and some delegates were  obliged to exercise their right of reply so that every single aspect of the subject was discussed and dis-  cussed again thereby filling the hearts of all with boredom and weäriness until there was no one who  wished to Bay anything further, Whereupon the Chairman of the Commission was obliged to resort to a  vote. The result of this is well known to all of you, -
(75,2) Madam President, 1 did dot wish to speak at this meeling, but after the legal falséhood perpeirated  by the delegate of Israel In an attempt to misléhd the Geheral Conference in this plenary meeting after he  had failed to mislead Commission 1H, I should merely like to quote té you part of a letter from {he Israeli  Minister of Education and Culture to the heads of delegations to the eighteenth session of the General"  Conference and which leaves no doubt as to Israel's firm determination to continue its excavations in  Jerusalem, .
75,3 I quote: "A Member State which has assured freedom of access to all holy places, a Member  State which by its archaeological researches in Jerusalem has made a priceless contribution to  the history of Moslem culture and civilization, while scrupulously avolding anything likely to  affect adversely any holy place or historic site,  Shel Glew M5 dete! 505 € (Slalae JI Lis il 51 Lu ONAN FERIA.  elpindl ol ALAIN clad Ledbe ange alll alll § dist Ul JN vay yas
(15.4) Madam President, I merely wished to give you this further piece of information which is a new  element inträduced by Israel since the decision was taken in Commission III and since Israel's aitempts to  explain and take for granted that the excavations in Jerusalem have stopped. This is the latest informa-  tion to reach this plenary meeting from the heads of delegations. Thank you, Madam President,
76. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Sudan, and I give the floor to the delegate of Libya.  (uselll heal age-gerS) Lin pats pS ancl — yy)  SUR Jy | HE 0° IR TRA IPR VSR FX) EPYSPST IE WW IRRYEN RPS ITH ER PIPE WT IER  + “dés 3 LL 058) 5 IRR TR SNE FR ICR BYR RI JP 3a) yd edd pea  oad US 5h bls les WY shall GBI FUN (J See À pale dés BPR PC NT  Ss BBs hal Gb os sSaipdl Jiws Lda SLAM gt oodles Wh 1 Sapdl (plais l on
6 Jeet GLa Lilas J Ladlady subindl sin CL gb (p05 Ji Lal Gull Gls sSsyalt  AS Lda SEN pay ads ol
(77) Mr, MANSOUR AL KIKHIA (Libya) (Translation from the Arabic):  Madam President, as we were one of the delegations sponsoring this draft resolution, I should like  to thank and support all those speakers who emphasized the validity and legality of this draft resolution;
1 should also like to emphasize that we are not asking the General Conference to intervene politically or  militarily in the dispute which is taking place in the region because we are well aware that this is not  within Unesco's competence, However, in this draft resolution we are asking Unesco to intervene through  limited preventive action in an attempt to preserve a cultural heritage which is of concern to all mankind;  {t ts our bellef that this {s of the essence of Unesco's duty. It is incumbent on the Member States who  are concerned about the survival of this Organization and wish it to be effective in its noble field of human  endeavour to support this draft resolution. Thank you,
78, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Libya and I give the floor to the delegate of Bangladesh.
79,1 Mr, CHOWDHURY (Bangladesh): ;  Thank you, Madam President, for giving me the floor. On this ftem, the delegation of  Bangladesh made its position very clear when this matter came up for discussion before the Com-  mission, I do not have té reiterate what 1 stated In respect to the resolution go far as the sub-  stance fs concerned, And iny delegation supports the resolution itself.
79.2 With regard to the question of law that has beef faised, Madam President, Ido not find any  difficulty’ in arriving at a decision with respect tô this résolution by this august house. Madam  President; the Constitution of Unesco describes in Article I'the purposes and fuhétlons of this  Organization, and in sub-paragraph 2 (¢) of that Article it is alearly stated that the ‘conservation  and protection of the world's inheritance of books, works of art and monuments cf history and  science and such other matters are among those purposes. )
39 179.3 Now, Madam President, comingto Article II, paragraph 4, you will find that it reads as  follows: "Members of the Organization which are suspended from the exercise u2 the rights and  privileges of Hiembérahip of the United Nations Organization shall, upoh the request of the latter,  be suspended from the rights and privileges of this Organization", This, Madam President, is  a mandate {n respect to a particular situation, If a Mémber State is suspended by the United  Nations, Unesco, on request, must also suspend that State, But in the absence of such a mandate,  it 1s not precluded from taking such action suo moto, because there ia no limitation of the powers  of this Organization. Paragraph 4 of Article II does not Jimit the power of this house. It merely  speaks of a mandate given to this house on a particular situation if there is such a request, In  the present case, there is no request, but there is no limitation also tc be read in any of the articles  of the Constitution, Nor has it been pointed out that such an article, prohibiting the exercise of  such à power, exists. Therefore, this house, in the absence of any express prohibition in the  Constitution, is authorized to take the step contemplated in the zerolution, Thank you, Madam  President,
80,1 The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the delegate of Bangladesh, Ladies and gentlemen, four non-governmental organiza-  tions having consultative status with Unesco applied to the General Committee of the General  Conferenra to grant them the right to speak on this issue iri the plenary. The General Committee  decir - grant them the right to speak,
80.2 I will first give the floor to the representative of the B'nai B'rith International Council,
80.3 But before I do, I give the floor to the delegate of Egypt on a point of order,  (apr yon upper) ISH est poet pBadl aed — A5  ny ol IS Gb pes Vy Beale jf Bebo Babe JU Gl pia cap on 6 Bad) (Ste  eb Wl chill sin id Wad oil pls ol up LS phd) puôsdl Lin Jif SL LNB  is ol oso BB ada J Jes 051 sn BS Lager Wl NI Bde yo Lphçne Jus OÙ 3st mi  pall le fll STI Be plunl way Lloyd (SL equs j das of geo Ji dob Lei  PC IEPA IO. § [FUPURPN JF PIPES. < [JEN Se J PUP [J PP. PN | JV J OTL LUI sd ok  OÙ à tue od US plu by UN cie ol 6 uot) cli BO stl, Lagis ¢ dual! 3 olen  oly € ml) Colyis 6 msl ah plat pl Ge Baqi Bags URL 5a etl LÉ ol Lg  pbs mes Nia yb) ul à Lab bhi) eid WE mao) dhe sds pL apd) 5
(81) Mr. AHMED CHAMS ELDINE EL. WAKIL (Egypt) (Translation from the Arabic):  Madam President, we welcome without any reservation at all the fact that the floor is given to non-  governmental organizations, However, on such Important subjects as this we shou’! like other non-  governmental organizations also to be granted the opportunity to speak. In actus , when we entered  this hall we had no intention of starting a lengthy debate, or even of taking part in discussion, but we were  surprised to hear after the meeting of the General Cominitteé of the Conference this morning that these  four non-governmental organizations had asked for the floor. It was within tte pover of the Committee to  authorize you, Madam President, to give the floor to organizations other than those which had asked to  speak but since this did not occur and :.s the General Committee of the Conference may be considered as =  subsidiary body of the General Confer-nce, including, as it does, the President and Vice-Presidents, it  follows that the General Conference itself is in a position to grant the floor to organizations other than  those which requested to speak. I therefore submit the matter to your consideration, Madam President,  hoping that permission will be granted to any other non-governmnental organizations requesting the floor.  Thank you.
82, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Egypt and I now give the floor to the repreeentative of the B'nai B'rith  International Council.
83.1 M, HOFFENBERG (Conseil international du B'Nai B'Rith). -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais en premier lieu vous remercier de la bienveillance dont  vous avez fait preuve en donnant A notre association la possibilité d'exposer la position d'une orga-  nisation non gouvernementale, le B'Nai B'Rith.
83.2 Madame la Présidente, Mesdames et Messieurs, distingués ambassadeurs et délégués, la  résolution dont nous débattone ce solr, présente A notre avis deux dangers graves. Un danger pour  l'Unesco, et une gravé menace pour l'Etat d'Israël. Nous nous pormettons, non pas d'exprimer un  doute sur son efficacité, comme l'ont fait plusieurs déléguée, mais de contester sa valeur morale  et la sévérité imméritée du jugement qu'elle porte. Si nous analysons attentivement la résolution,  nous pouvons constater : primo, qu'elle se fonde sur une situation ancienne, désormais dépassée,  dont découlalent certaines décisions ; secundo, qu'elle invoque des résolutions vans rapport avec  la question A l'étude ; tertlo, qu'elle est sanctionnée par des condamnations graves aboutissant en  fait à l'exclusion d'un Etat membre.
83.3 En ce gui concerne l'exposé dus motifs, et en l'absence de toute règle de droit international 39  applicable, nou'e Organisation s'étonne en premier lieu qu'il soit fait abusivement grief à l'Etat  d'Israël d'empêcher l'Unesco d'assumer sa mission, alors que dans le rapport du professeur  Lemaire sur les fouilles à Jérusalem, comme dans le rapport du Directeur général concernant  l'éducation dans les territoires occupés, il est ?“‘* état au contraire de la large coopération offarte  par les délégués d'Israël et de la bonne volonté de cet Etat, Je cite le rapport du Directeur géné-  ral : "Partout la mission de l'Unesco fut bien accueillie par les autorités à tous les niveaux et  reçut de leur part une alde précieuse". Ainsi s'écroule tout l'édifice d'un texte bâti sur des for-  mules d'une rare violence.
83.4 Sur un deuxième point, la sagesse a prévalu et la Commission a supprimé, ' sur notre sugges-  tion, un adjectif odieux introduit entre parenthèses par les auteura de la résolution ; mais une  autre parenthèse contient une référence à la résolution 11 (14 C) adoptée par la Conférence géné-  rale, qui est sans rapport avec l'objet de la présente résolution. On essaye, ce faisant, de ranger  l'Etat d'Israël dans le cemp des Etats colonialietes et racistes par une allusion soigneusement dis-  simulée. En premier lieu, il faut situer historiquement la résolution 11 (14 C) : elle a été adoptée  en 1966, à une Époque où la plupart des leux saints étaient sous occupation jordanienne ; la Jorda-  nie interdisait aux Juifs du monde entier, qu'ila solent américains, hollandais, français ou israë-  liens, l'accès des sites incontestablements juifs comme Hébron, comme la tombe de Rachel, et  surtout Jérusalem, Combien de pélerins chrétiens se sont vu interdire l'accès ae certains Etats  signataires de la résolution lorsque leur passeport conservait la trace de leur passage en Israël !  Que faut-il penser en outre de l'obligation de présenter aux frontières de ces mêmes pays, un cer-  tificat de baptème ? Je ne voudrais pas accabler ici un Etat ma bre en dressant la liste des griefs  qui se sont accumulés pendant quinze années d'administration restrictive, comme le font certains  à toute occasion A l'encontre de l'Etat d'Israël, En revanche, je voudrais citer un attendu de cette  résolution 11 (14 C) qui dit clairement : ",,. Que toute forme de discrimination raciale crée une  menace pour la paix ‘èt pour la sécurité internationale et constitue un crime contre l'humanité",  Nous nous insurgeons contre les accusations mal fondées, dirigées à l'encontre de l'Etat d'Israël  et contre la volonié, exprimée sans ambages, de le mettre au pilori, de taxer de racisme un pays  qui a su, en vingt-cinq années d'existence, rassembler des ressortissants de trente-six pays, de  couleurs, de conditions sociales et économiques différentes, ouvrir ses universités aux étudiants  du monde entier. Cette accusation est une insulte insoutenable.
84, The PRESIDENT:
1 am sorry to interrupt you, but all Member States have observed ‘he time limit. I have to  ask you to observe ft.
85, M, HOFFENBERG (Conseil international du B'Nai B'Rith), -  Je termis +, Madame la Présidente, avec votre permission. L'histoire du peuple juif, toute  récente, ct notre mémoire ancestrale nous trompent rarement. Nous nous souvénons que le na-  tional-gocialisme a pris naissance dans un pays à la pointe du progrès, et qui comptait un grand  nombre de savants, philosophes et hommes de lettres dont l'influence était prépondérante dans le  monde occidental. Or cette élite a participé, sous couvert d'idéal, à l'avènement du nazisme pour  sombrer par la suite dans les crimes les plus abominables. Entourons-nous de toutes les précau-  tions pour ne pas nous trouver pris dans un engrenage de haine irréversible en rompant le dia-  logue, c'est-à-dire en refusant à l'interlocuteur son droit légitime a la parole, Notre organisa-  tion, qui est A la tête du combat antiraciste depuis cent trente deux ans, est persuadée que les  pays qui ont subi toutes sortes d'oppression ee joindront aux pays qui ont toujours combattu pour  la liberté afin de voter conjointement contre cette résolution, Merci, Madame la Présidente.
86. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 1 give the floor to the representative of the World Jewish Congress.
87,1 Mr. EINFELD (World Jewish Congress):  Madam President, distinguished delegates, when I spoke in the Commission the other day I  appealed to it, on behalf of the World Jewish Congress, the international representative organiza-  tion of the Jewish people of the world, to raise itself - if possible, ell of us - above the level of  party and national politics and into the realm, one hoped, of what was best for the world and what  was best for the world conscience and morality. I have had the distinguished privilege in these  last days of speaking here at this Conference with dozens of delegates from Arab countries and  from the Third World - from Africa and Asia - and Î have heard from them that they do not fun-  damentally believe that this resolution will in any way contribute to a solution of the problems of  which it {a at the heart, and that they do not believe even that the resolution is a fundamental  contribution to Unesco's future and io the preservation and security of the City of Jerusalem.
87.2 Madam President, 1 would not have had to participate even in the debate today, were it not  for the fact that in the Commission's rerort - although it was possible to summarize the interven-  tions and contributions to the debate of virtually every speaker who participated, and certainly of  every point of view which wee expressed - it was not possible, in relation to the non-governmental  organizations who participated (and ! refer specifically, because it was solely 3, to the interven-  tion of my colleague from the Binal B'rith and myself) to mention anything other than the fact that  we had spoken, with not even one word as to what we had said. And when we have listened here  again today to one speaker after another, from amongst the sponsors, telling us that they do not
39 wish toreopen the debate, and then, as the distinguished ambassador from Iraq did, launch into  another vitriolic atteck not only on the Government of Israel but on the acts of every person within  it and of every Jew who supports it throughout the world, is it any wonder the Jews expreus concern  and distress and worry that a change in the approach of international organizations to Israel, and  to the City of Jerusalem in particular, bodes 111 for the future of Jews generally? We have again  heard the same error committed fn this debate a8 we heard in the Commission. The debate has  proceeded without a mention of 3, 000 years of Jewish history in the City of Jerusalem, The debate  has proceaded without a mention of 19 years of desecration and of Jewish exclusion from Jerusalem,  of desecration of Jewish holy sites, by the Jordanian occupation between 1948 and 1967, And,  Madam President, we have heard again about the {dea that there fe some distinction - in relation  at any rate to the preservation of a Jewish presence in Jerusalem - between what the protagonists  want to call Judaism and Zionism, neither of which they have ever supported themselves, and  are therefore speaking in total ignorance of the question.
87.3 Madam President, we do not desire to stir up hatred, to use the phrase that was used a  moment ago under the guise of anti-semitism. What we seek to do is to prevent the errors of  the past being visited yet zgain upon the Jewish people. When we hear mention in this debate of  the irresponsible acts of a few Israeli citizens which are thereby to be visited, it is alleged, upon  every Jew in the world, and for that matter upon every Jew in Israel, and we do not hear about  hanging in the streets and in public squares in Baghdad, in recent days even, is it any wonder  that Jewish people worry and are concerned and are appealing to'the world not to forget so quickly  what has happened to our people so recently? Madam President, the Jewish people who have served  over 70 countries in peace and in war, with distinction, devotion and dedication, have no problem,  as was mentioned last time, in relation to their loyalty to their countries of citizenship, But what  we say and the appeal we make to this meeting, even now, even at this late moment is: do not  please add yet another nail to the coffin of the Jewish people, thus worsening what has been its  lot throughout history. Thank you, Madam President.
88. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the representative of the Women's International League for  Peace and Freedom,
89,1 Mme BERTHOZ (Ligue internationale des femmes pour la paix et la liberté). -  Madame la Présidente, Messieurs les délégués, je viens ici aujourd'hui très simplement pour  lire une lettre écrite le 4 novembre 1974 par mon oncle le président René Cassin, Prix Nobel de  la Paix 1969, à M. Maheu, qui était encore à ce moment Directeur général de l'Unesco, & propos  de la résolution qui nous intéresse à l'instant, Cette lettre peut être considérée comme un mes-  sage, une exhortation pour que les problèmes difficiles qui se présentent à l'Unesco, donc à vous  tous réunis, se règlent dans un esprit de coopération et dénué de haine et de passion pour que le  grand corps que vouc constituez tous réunis survive et continue à remplir la tâche pour laquelle  il a été fondé. Si la grande voix pacifique du Prix Nobel de la Paix 1969 est momentanément as-  sourdie par un incident de santé, elle vous reviendra bientôt avec toute sa vigueur. Nous trouvons  juste, dans la circonstance difficile actuelle, qu'elle se farse entendre ici. Voici le texte de cette  lettre :  “Cher Monsieur le Directeur général, je vous fais porter cette lettre urgente alors que  vous achevez votre mandat de Directeur général de l'Unesco, Sous votre haute direction  et pendant des années, l'Unesco a développé une action indispensable en faveur de l'éduca-  tion, de la science et de la culture dans le monde, L'Organisation internationale a su pré-  server, grâce à vous et au Conseil exécutif dont vous fates, à bien des égards, le princi-  pal inspirateur, une pureté de motivation et un savoir-faire qui ont permis de .‘mporter  de nombreuses victoires sur l'ignorance, l'esprit d'intolérance et le racisme, N'est-il  pas À craindre qu'aux derniers Instants de votre si brillante carrièré l'Unesco ne devienne  la victime de l'esprit partisan de ceux qui voudraient transformer l'Organisation interna-  tionale en une machine de guerre politique, en obtenant l'expulsion de facto d'un des Etats  membres, l'Etat d'Israël lui-même héritier d'une tradition millé:aire qui a contribué à  éclairer l'humanité tout entière,  Je veux parler de la résolution 18 C/SHC/DR,2, présentée par des pays arabes et par les  pays socialistes. Dans son dernier paragraphe, ce projet de résolution vise à porter un  coup mortel à la collaboration de l'Unesco et de l'Etat d'Israël. Le prétexte invoqué, à  savoir les fouilles archéologiques susceptibles de modifier le caractère culturel de la ville  de Jérusalem, est particulièrement failacieux ; les experts de l'Unesco ont dû vous rappor-  ter avec quel luxe de précautions ces fouilles sont entreprises. Est-il besoin de rappeler,  d'autre part, que c'est sous l'aviorité d'Israël que les lieux saints de toutes les r ligions ont  êté accessibles A tous ? Ne faut-il pas rappeler également que sous l'autorité jordanienne,  hélas, de 1948 à 1967, les lieux saints du judafsme n'ont pas êté accessibles aux croyants  israëlites ? Faut-il rappeler que le cimetière juif de Jérusalem, l'un des plus anciens de  cette région du monde, a été saccagé sous l'autorité jordanienne ? Si l'Unesco faisait  siennes les accusations portées contre Israël en adoptant la résolution 18 C/SHC/DR. 2, je  n'hésite pas à le dire, elle perdrait une grande partie de sa raison d'être, Je n'ignore pas  que l'Unesco, A la naissance de laquelle, vous le savez, j'ai cu l'honneur d'être associé,  fonde son action sur la volonté de la majorité des Etats membres, mais je suis persuadé,  que el votre voix sé faisait entendre avant qu'il ne soit trop tard, certaines délégation rê-  fléchiraient aux conséquences véritables de leur vote,
370   En ma qualité de Président d'honneur du Conseil consultatif de {'Organisation juive, quia, 39  je crois pouvoir le dire, servi fidèlement depuis Ba fondation les buts de 1'Unesco, J'ex- ‘  primé au Directeur général sortant la profonde inquiétude qui nous saisit quant aux tenta-  tives de dénaturation des objecti?s de l'Organisation, auxquels vous ttes plus qui quiconque  indissolublement attaché. Dans la certitude que le présent appel de dernière minute trou-  vera en vous un écho favorable, je vous prie d'agréer, Monsieur leDirecteur général, les  sentiments les meilleurs d'un homme qui croft profondément à l'avenir de la règle inter-  nationale,  Signé : Rend Cassin"
90, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the repreeo:tative of the Arab Educational, Cultural and  Scientific Oreenization (ALECSO).
(2S — patadly WEI App iat IAB) pro pb end pull Veil 41,  cloabidly Jobal Coat oF Yod 6 plan VE Vin J Cul ul ST J 6 dunt) Gute  ob details VIk LS ae) 0) gage uit PU dl ang Sb) nas 5 a Les Balad! Apt Jd
8 GI ell  JUNC PR Ju i So a TL le SN IT paie à y _ Ce)
35 dph 91 Joell 38m ul Jade Jd Ling 3pm a) Gn oe PLASNT wal lye gl  Udy 6 0) dual pe VI bie JI es gall plat gba Jo NA CA Be tL lal op  ds Let Ug padl § anbo Luk ppt yi 536 oly afl chill AE dbs ¢ hull op BU  Ge Lg US Baby. Lobaly $10 Ll) La) ol LIU (Lote ob dealt Bp, (Soy  dst ¢ Lr acid Rhu) CYB cul oldie daassdl uss! JO [ROS | PRT RRO  JP I WNC I TON WYSE FPA [PY UN I CORK AR IP Is 6 CRT Rp I SP TEE  ral abus delai human tt CLIS € we $abill ella! oe Bl Gate vagal yay Bu  a Yl I cud CN A1E pb Fe WE egal GAG wala gs dis 111g Bef DJS  ah 41 7 ul old! Lise «5 slag), famed Il clan Yl pan oe WAS Lata slag sh ply  EXO yall abel ote 17 lols FABLE cblanl go Wigs! coir olaial 1410 Bee  Jl gel uboal ge 17 1 Lula famed YI ball go Veil Gate olen yao Be  CB ge JUS Wis ob 1431 Be Sb J WW yee Be Ud Gob 1 os  bv Jp Uy Lusibpie Ÿ poo of wr Bel chal ods YB cal 5  J a FN Er Le al I  NOUR] NS 90 Vie AI IE PN ICN LIF ONE PEST ERR PR a  ’ . BI  a Lal demand LUF aay yup sed 0 ssl wo hlpd Jl, l alle aoa oy LY or  Sud Jui 5 pus e CULL sda peso ds sv 6 cag ud! sÉmisally ooh onlay  Cpe 55 sd she  Yet gyéodl 56 rue © IRIAN | ICSU OWER SRT BF J TX ICA VETER LT PR PER PRS RT:  LL 5 pet 6 Glad Jkally AN 25 ge Sh LS dbs alt a Ll Jal  EX ORI IS IF J DEW IP OPEN |  JS Wm J ol red WS Les Jab clayl re ul ily ably pdt SOS — 410  PR CYICSI SPU TI I I RS US PNT od PAT OIL Uses 0,055 Lhusey os La Lip 340 WEN  ull ue BC Sisal oS ob Alea) Lagas dial Ul LU pal
(91,1) Mr. AHMED FATHI SOROUR (Arab Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization - ALECSO)  (Translation from the Arable):  Madam President, I was not intending to speak in this meeting but the delegate of Israel and the non-  governmental organizations which support Israel have made in your presence a number of claims which  it ts Importunt for me to answer and to refule as follows.
(91.2) Firstly, as far ze the legal aspect fs concerned: it ig claimed that the Constitution of Unesco does  not explicitly stipulate that the General Conference is entitled to deprive a Member State of its rights or  prerogatives, This assertion ts refuted by the unanimous decision of the International Court of Justice  in 1949 embodied in the advisory opinion which it submitted to the United Nations to the effect that, under  international law, the United Nations had powers which, although not expressly siipulated in its Charter,  nevertheless by force of necassity devolved upon It as long au they were fundamentel to the performance  of its duites. Consequently, there has grown up an international practice whereby the United Nations  Specialized Agencies exercise their right to impose penalties not explicitly laid down {n their constitutions,  Here are six examples: I. ‘The decislon of the International Labour Organisation fn 1963 to debar South  Africa from meetings of the Organization; IL. The decisions of the Assembly of the World Health Organi-  zation in 1964 te suspend the voting rights of South Africa; IL In 1963, the Food and Agriculture Organi.  zation of the United Nations decided to disqualify South Africa from attending regional meelings; IV. The  International Civil Aviation Organization decided, fn 1965, to debar South Africa from meetings cf the  Organization; V, The Conference of the Internetisnzl Tulecommunication Union decided in 1965 to debar
371   > , South Africa from regional conferences; VI. The Universal Postal Union decided twice, firatly in Vienna  in 1964 and setondiy.in Tokyo In 1969, to evict the delegate of Portugal from its Congress, These Agen-  cles imposed six penalities without haying explicit authority under the terms of their. constitutions and thus  an International practice grew up which allowed Unesco to impose such & measure on two occasions:  firstly in 1966, under resolution 20 adopted by'the founteenth séssion of the General Conference and  secondly in 1968 under resolution ‘9:14 adopted at the fifteenth session of the General Conference. So much  è for the legal aspect. -
(91.3) The claim that Israel has not violated the resolutions of Unesco is rafuted by all the resolutions  of the General Assembly, of the Security Council and of Unesco which have established the reality of  the violations beyond doubt; thére are therefore no further grounds for debate.
(91,4) Lastly, the claim that force is getting the better of truth In Unesco {s ridiculous because it is  Israel itself which has challenged all the resolutions of the United Nations, Including those of Unesco,  with all the force at its disposel in terms of arms, pressure and intimidation.
91, 5:-May the effectiveness And force of today's resolution be stronger than the Intimidation and tyranny  of Israel. As I have sald, the existence and reality of every international organization are reaffirmed  by important resolutions which it adopts, and-the resolution you are to adoot today, along the lines decided  by Commission III, will be one of the most important you have ever adopted in order to preserve the nature  of Unesco, Thank you, Madam President. ' “
92. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. And now I give the floor to the representative of the Palestine Liberation  Organization,  (deh dill yall ahi) 38 Jar pui — 4 YO)  : Fr WOE JU | REVO  ; : ess ghia  Bly or Ltd bb Jy 3dladl Sets pal Lechis à GUL Rauls Jobity aptd Jo Gees Went gl  oa) apts 19) (abl dl Guay Jdpaldt BY ue eades aos LA Jp libadt pd  me gtebididl Bod) pie § WBE fF 3abyl Shs Jae ($F Jule! gas Jad wsdl gla Yl  y JUSSI VORP JC IT JY [Ws J I PRR [RF CULE JES dis onS3 3 100 4 lal es (QI Sead  odd aby J odgay gibsll esas Jabs Fe plate dl à Sead! Jn  ge Be Beall ge GIVE ste SIN pod À piserall dealt mal Sib CANON  Lute) 5 Bo gl pple fF bag (Ll jms bliss oo plebuddidl Spall pad Guna]  bye cial il Lad ob pas à pladly WHA Lbs IL on 55e ply foul ob dl  Hu) bop pale dass Vl pill was 6 Wlaally gall md J QUAI (lad) Ball lab  oi Pe Spel pala à Suapill Fu J le jf ba (ble pince (Slab f dseeall Go abs  ol LS SL pdt ale ash un y LUI Gels oe dy rely hodl Ushi of Shes gull call  o—dppanlly crbisdl CHUN ay causa) Odsal! CLI Ligh Shes al dealt at  spa dl Lie Jus Bally ell chile all Jagan PBN pad BLE € dspall parenie  Latte pga dl paths culs © bill] Wns club’ Suds Luis oa by CEE dpa L308) Ou  BO FO 1 ss ET Ai DNS Vaste 5  ond! Chill cid Late * pote palilT debe of Lb Ageless (Sib 11) IP et Feo  publ Bont or SIU ay GUI idl Vin ol Gate F Lhd pea 3480091
(93.1) Mr, DJAMIL CHEHADE (Palestine Liberation Organization} (Translation from the Arable):  Madam President, ladies and gentlemen: Our people are the victims of a large-sçale campalgn of  vilification and deceit conducted by world Zionism using all the cominvnication medid at {ts disposal and  all the hired writerd it has been able to recruit, In brief, ‘the: objectives of this camphigh bre ab follows:  firstly, to slander the human and cultural dimension of our plople's just atruggle to secure their national  rights; secondly, to prevent the facts atout Palestine from réaching the consélehce of the world; thirdly,  to institutionalize the expulsion of our people, their continued subjection under the domination of military  occupation and the continued disregard of their national existenée and of thelr right to their homeland In  Palestine.
(93.2) You may perhaps have been aware of the Zionist endeavours in New York as a result of which  thousands of Zionists gathered around the United Nations building to prevent the volce of Palestine from  addressing the conscience of the world. And here in Paris, which we, and many other people In different  - paris of the world, regard as a beacon of culture and science, as the capital city of France, a country  which has adopted an exemplary attitude In the Western vorld through ite understanding of truth and justice,  we are loday witnessing attempts to make Paris the scene of campaigns organized by Zionism; you may  have heard about the demonstrations which came tb the Headquarters of Unesco and which attacked Unesco  at the same time ag our Organization was receiving high commendation from His Holiness the Pope who  had awarded it the Peace I'vize, Similarly, the press campnign controlled by Zionist monopolies has  already engaged & number of professional authors well known for thelr Zionist leanings, In addition to  some new writers who have tried to influence and exert pressure on the work of this Conference, Where  are the pens and the consciences of these writers when the encampments of our Palestinian people are  bombed? And where are thelr consciences and thelr pens when our people are daily massacred in the  oceupled territories and in Southern Lebanon? Permit me to rekd you fn English something written by a  correspondent of "Time Magazine” after the Israell afr force had bombed the camp of Nabathia in the  south of Lebanon in which thousands of ou: l’alestinian people lve.
93.3 I quote "no matter which.way I)ook, I did not see a wall standing. ' The camp looked more. -  like a road building project than a plice to live, There must have been many bodies buried under  Nabathia, Thé smell was very strong". ; ,  oa + Was us Beal Tenir G5 RIL Agsepally Jbl of 0 Le dla arg  à Il, VIO | § WORN J FOX Xo sb Jess lie dl sds Las, À una suse tL! Ja} -  Js Jas dt eld. 5 Ely Jyarye 6 oo be ‘ oe eLpas ol . and WY 2) verbal ol ui  ’ . as, Lad Ji ol alas od Les éuVl Jais LS SV Hany  chen 13s Rp ll VRAI ue Waid Shen ri ha li PEN pau SAS gre  ob oF ted HBL Gr ouatly Guns WE Gk Lady let Pline tl QUI La I  JS LpolaS 2guabadl 3obL¥1 sda edb JO NN ALL oS debsll Glad iy Glas’  mba ph pein Pa der Lull clo BIRIL ge Rae (Shad 15 pdt Sle  JU bal Joa Yl lbs miel LS 5 atdledl a da Ll Ie sapall pe Ten) 9 JW Ÿ 2 1 NS  o— Ahly pel (So) ale Type SL Jl Bley Gains vds Grol! ($I Wry  Cpl gad ue Jul J opeluadl SNL Jos YI elhle cp) LS fa Seal lhl  os andl Vl ily Gb hdl po ells bo JS AL deal! Mol cowl Bh — qv  creo guhabill pall GI GSI pend] Gd paid GV sag € IN pn Fagus tle)  pebudiil yat) lus Vs land amgdl Jon sl d'Appel dain ood) 0 Up pele EN  Cue or ost od Baus VE wll SIN Bug 6 4e OXON gb Je Luss  Cast All poll (dl paso Gd pO dad ue Joly cas 985 6 goles plane ary  (Lin ofp WL, aches! de bigs J pede sila! Gsepall 3b JO TH  ALBUM oly 6 upped 05 apd Baad! Bgipepall us Wl cle uly biog, oS) LS 6 ye) 77  o— phx grad obbdl Gb) ps BAS dl peel 5 JUL thud dl SE 0 i suse!  Ils pre À vhs oelobadl GT  das Poe] lie ot vb ul lui, « Wei) LY et Les) pg ¢ wb ¢ lee — ATA  Sant Vue gol wsdl Lis ol Lele on Il apeUIE PL Yl Sus Use Badia!  JAS Lal Lalas] sasal Las VI psp bill sds cl);
(93.4) Ladies and gentlemen, Israel and world Zionism have conducted an unambiguous strategy directed  against our people in order to destroy them as a nation. This strategy fs based on the well-known Zlonist  thesis and the big le that Palestine is a land without a people. Ladies and gentlemen, our people exist and  live end although it ts within the power of the occupying forces to kill and imprison thousands as they are  doing now, they will not Le able to annihilate our entire people.
(93.5) You may have followed reports of the popular demonstrations in every village and town on the West  Bank and fn Gaza; these demonstrations amounted to a spontaneous referendum proving that we are one  people, whether in our own land or În exile, with our own objectives and our own national aspirations,  However, the occupying forces met this expression of the popular will, as is their custom, by resérting to  every means of suppression and intimidation. Perhaps you have heard of the girl student whose body was  crushed by the tanks fn Janin, an incident which neither the occupying forces nor the Zionlst Information  cystem was able to deny, Similarly the occupying forces admitted the arrest of 132 s{udents of both sexes  in Jerusalem, Nablus and Janin and herded them into sham triels with the verdicts prepared in advance vn  the orders of the military forces; the forces of occupation have also ordered schools in many towns and  villages to be closed.
(93.6) The entire Zionist campaign hat been stepped up through the use of every means of communication  at its disposal fn many parts of the world since last week when the world listened to the voice of Palestine,  the voice of Brother Yasser Arafat, Chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization, who raised high  the cultural and human banner of our Prlestine people when he brought an olive branch in one hand and the  avenging rifle In the other, saying: "Do not make the olive branch fall from my hand.”
(93.7) Ladies and gentlemen, we are a people striving for real peace, nof the false peace spoken of by  the misleading Zionist propaganda machine. Their peace is In fact à peace of death and capltulation.’ We  emphasize here oncé hgain as our Chalr.nan Yasser Arafat himself emphasized, that although we are  opposed to racfalikt Zionist we are not apposed to Jews and that the Jewish militant Levy, the'leader of  the Red Front, ig still fn an Israeli prison together with his comrade Bishop Kabuget and thousands more  militants living in the same prisons.
(93.8) Ladies and gentlemen, you are fina‘ly facing a historic responsibility and we are convinced that  this Conference and this Organization will take the appropriate minimum measures to secure respect fo.  the resolutions of this Organization and to achieve its fundamental objectives, Thank you.
94, The PRESIDENT: _  Thank you: The delegate of Iraq asked to speak in exercise of his right of reply. I give the  floor to the delegate of Iraq.  (BL AN) guar pale pb 5s andl — 4550  — Asse V de be les oS cod pe cpus) gyal ol Lhudy 4 dont Gide  tools (DU ok gh op 6 sas Bho  STI RNY PY 058 USE» INS VERSO | FOR Lin rad J J YO TX RW | lil JS) Jus J
39 hada my date bashed! A Ms pad à Sergpally dospedl cos des WE 3 BY qo  od uy VI Ls uses We Us SSL Shots Ruse! ow des od Seas  ols «ball seal Spdly Jahul Lisl IT Mgr Ils dag Bl (Shall Madey Reuse! Sabi  > ll Baas busy Claude Jun 5h Lope Jui Ua gab Moby Mob WBS 6 da  ua Sew ohm til JB) or Tes chposs ob LS pb Lu dipped) ue Lan ele  Ut er pel 2 WOXUN A EPR  EU J UW WTC TR J SEPP) PR OUR WP I PRR PV I 6451 pt GLEN 5 à LE — door  LsosSon nyletg churzlé Bhd Daily papell! Whol 6 Leutbly (Wb ALL Go 6 Jobe]  Col SP PL Be dads cdi LS peel od aba VS sa  MN or peed] elite sles hall cial GLI SY 6 dpb phe os ded 3 BIE — qo ¢  en S5 dA Ge Used Gupte sdss asie DL ŸN ads Lal uspdl ping on  OF SVC] |b VICUN REE IPR [PVRS JT TR IRN I [PY D108 JK sEURCHRC) JP da UF CUR RF: PRS MEPIS |  KDW] PY CIPRO I | ORUR NEY | WT CPT WL VOY | JE TR SCIP he IE Gun AIT I FCI § I FR JS  »dgasadl Bball Gi lads à Appeal  r WINN NY | le JOT. 4 - CRS PU J PY] IY CRPRNSPPVARTIN | JRTSURP 11 PR AR LE 56 WH ¥ PRPY lus ls — 4000  Hob pein od path Grae oly Lal Bull LY Neb wea oJ Sels VAI ls  IN FU
(95,1) Mr. AZIZ AL-HAJ ALI HAIDER (Iraq) (Translation from the Arabic). ;  Madam President, we regret that we are speaking yet again but one represéntative of a non-  governmental organization has attacked a Member State, namely my own couniry, and I must make a  brief statement in reply. The speech made by thé person in question included many distortions of the  facts which it would be inappropriate for ine to refute here. But ! should like briefly to emphasize the  following points:
(95.2) Firstly, we draw a distinction between Judaism and Zionism for Zionism is a racialist ideology  and a colonialist expansionist movement, We also distinguish between Judalsm and Israel, and we are  thereby defending Judaism itself for we do not wish Judaism to be implicated in the series of crimes  committed, In recent and less recent times, Ly Israel and by the international Zionfet movement, This {s  not the occasion to enumerate the long Met of crimes. ‘Chere are many Jewish foundations in the world  which have severed and are severing their connexions with Zionism and have publicly condemned it, just  as there are eminent individuals such as Einstein who have been critical of this ractallst movement even  though they were Jews,
(95.3) Secondly, the person In question referred to the execution of a number of spies In my country;  this was In exercise of the right of sovereignty and of jurisdiction over its citizens and a condemnation  of esplonage on behalf of a foreign country. Our Government will take the same action against sples as  States have always done throughout the world,
(95, 4) People speak of Nazi ciimes, but Nazism committed crimes against tens of millions of people  including Jews. In the Soviet Union alone it killed 20 million people whom Zlonism does not mention. We  abhorred those crimes just as we abhor any such crimes; however they are no excuse for similar crimes  committed by Zionism against the Palestinian people and the carrying out, agalnst the Arab people, of  the same policy of aggression as that carried out by the Hitlerites and in accordance with the same raclel-  ist outlook.
(95.5) Lastly, Ly analogy with what befell the Fascists after thelr defeat, we declare that we are fully  convinced that the aggressive arrogance of Israel will not long resist the will of history and that the rights  of people will not long be thwarted,
9C. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 1 give the floor to the delegate of Afghanistan,
97.1 Miss LUDIN (Afghanistan):  Thank you, Madam President. During the course of this débate concerning paragraph 51 of  document 18 C/122, some delegations have mentioned a large number of distinguished French  personalities who have expressed In the local press their ...xieties over the resolution under dis-  cussion. And indeed, they have indicated that they will break their association with Unesco and  cease their support of our Organization,
97,2 .Madam President, with the deep respect that my delegation has for the free press, we cannot  but wish that the French press had devoted headline coverage to tte more noble cause of Unerro,  The same press, Madam President, has for many years falled to give adequate coverage to many  of Unesco's great accomplishments fn the fields of education, science and culture, We cannot  but question why this sudden interest in Unesco affairs has taken place, )
98. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the delegate of Afghanistan, and I give the floor to the delegate of the United States.
99.1 Mr. JONES (United States of America):  Thank you, ‘Madam Presidént. As we atated in Commisefon III, the United States opposes  this resolution, particularly the harsh operative paragraphs. The arguments raised earlier by the
374   distinguished delegate from Venezuela are indeed persuasive, and, ‘we think, demand the full 39  consideration of this House. We have always and still do feël that this item is primarily of a  political nature, and that ways and means for the preservation of the monuments involved has  become secondary.
99,2 Unesco must be bound by its constitutional limitations and by the legal customs and constraints  of the United Nations system. In our view, this resolution is legally inadmissible, is of a mainly  political nature and, regretfully, does not really constitute an effective means of dealing with  the problem which the co-sponsors indicate is at the heart of their concern. Thank you, Madam  President,
100, ‘ The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of the United States, and I give the floor to the delegate of Jordan,
2 Las Lean 4b ull, ist Jeo elbJliJl sdb 5 Ha L ra A ob cil  — ER] JR | es 036 SRY TIA I VO. A LÉ LUI ado sul 50 SS — Ne NON  + se XL ald € PLAIT Lia it À A FECL IUPUON 5 il pas vote dé PRP,  A co 3558 Ball ed Ball ee Aspd Alu l Busy clu! die of 33 PYRE  (SCI) [JJ UG RP (UPR PR PORT WHOS | [RU XIN 6 PA WC LIN A0) [IL ON RW cl  Yat [rss] NT Lt ae y ‘ atl  oN dé aile ALI esl BE Ge gladly TY pone oe cpl tly WY yyy  o—S% . ov dé de pH RF SURVEY. FS | PUL ERPRRN KI JOR or ommpedl € ob Wud  pls amb SY Ling Coed Ale Upmy Gop url G0 bo red LU pue 5 BJ  JS lace als 2 alia sais I cle Ys
(101,8) Mr, MOHAMED HALAWA (Jordan) (Translation from the Arabic):  Madam President, ladies and gentlemen: I should have preferred not to take up your valuable time  by speaking hut 1 am obliged to take the floor in order to rectify a numter of falsifications, We very much  regretted hearing the many scandalous falsehoods uttered, by spokesmen of non-governmental organizations  and in order to save time I shall not refute all of these falsehoods and shall confine myself to refuting  only some of them,
(101.2) The delegate of one of these non-governmental organizations stated that Jerusalem had beer. urder  Jordanian occupation at which time Jews and others were not allowed to enter the City. 1 should lika to  repudiate this slanderous assertion by {informing you of the truth of the matter: what took place wan a  voluntary and legitimate merger and unification between the West and East banks of the Jordan thereby  creating the llashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Naturally, Arab Jerusalem Is a very important part of the  Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and it 1s not possible to refer to this unity as being a state of occupation,
(101, 3) As for the matter of visits, citizens and pilgrims from all over the world were allowed to enter  Jerusalem, just as Christians from Israel and elsewhere were allowed to enter Jordan, But, naturally,  because there was a state of war, Israelis were not permitted to enter Jordan or Jerusalem. This Is  natural and legitimate and does not require Interpretations and falsifications such as thoge we have heard.  Thank you, +
102, The PRESIDENT: ;
1 thank the delegate of Jordan and I give the floor to the delegate of the Soviét Union.
103. H.M.KAHAEB (Cona CoseTcKHX COUHANHCTAYECKHX Pecny6auk);  T-xa lipsAceAaTenb, MHÉ XOTGAOCh Ôb1 OCTAaHOLMTBGA HA WPHAHYOCKHX ACNOKTAX pe I0ONDLUHH,  KOTOPAN COIEPpXHTCA B NyHKze 51, l'enepanbuax xovdepenuns IVHECKO, Kak H3BOCTHO, Ha YOTEIP-  Haauazofl, VATHAAUATOH, MECTHAALATOÏ H COMHAAUETOÏ CECCHAX, a TAKXO HONONHHTE/NBHEIÉ conser  Ha GGOYHONEHHOM KONHYECTBE OBOHX COCCHÉ HOOAHOKPATHO PACCMATPHBANH Bonpoo 0 Hepycaruue H  MNpHHHMA/H HIBÉCTHHE BCOM Aeneraram posonDuHr. HapaHre xe, Kak HAM HIBOCTHO, HO NPHHAA HH-  KaKHX Mep MO BHMONHEHHD 3THX pesonbLHR, a Mb CUHTA@M, “TO HACTYNHIO BpeoMA, Koraa TeHepanb-  A234 AOHGSLonIMA AONXHA DPHHATH Gonee ACHCTBOWHMNE CaHKUHH, C TOM VTO0H OÛAIATL FOOYAAPCTBO,  He BHMOTHAOMOE CHCTOMATHYECKH pesonnunH D'esopanbHoRn KondepeHLHH, HAKOHEU HX BHIMO/HHT be  MB CYHTSEM, UTO MNOCTAHOBAANTEOE MONOXEHHE, KOTOPO® COROPXHTCH B po30OADUHH, & HMOHHO NYHK-  TM 1, 2 H A npHeMAeMH Kax C DPHAHYECKOR, tar H C GakrHYeCKOH Touek apeHHA. BHATOAäp»p BAC,  r-xa IIpeaceAaTenb. . )
(105) Mr. KANAEV (Union of Soviet Socielist Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Madam President, 1 should like to dwell on the legal aspects of the resolution contained In paragraph 51,  As everyone knows, the General Conference of Unesco, at its fourteenth, fifteenth, sixteenth end seven.  teenth sessions, and the Executive Board, at countless of {ts sessions, have repeatedly examined the  question of Jerusalem and have adopted résolutions of which afl delegates are aware, Israel, on the other
375   hand,” as we know, has taken no steps to implement these resolutions and we feel that thé time has come  when the General Conference must adopt more effective sanctions to oblige & State which systematically  disregards the resolutions of the General Conference finally to Implement them, We consider that the  operative part of the resolution, or to Le precise paragraphs J, 2 snd 3, is acceptable both from the  legal and from the factual points of view, Thank you, Madam President.
104, The PRESIDENT: -  I thank the delegate of the Soviet Union. The last speaker on my list 1s the delegate of Algeria.
1 give the floor to the delegate of Algeria,
105.1 M. DERRADII (Algérie), -  Madame la Présidente, je ne serais pas intervenu dans le débat si certains problèmes d'ordre  juridique n'avaient été soulevés, Tout d'abord, on a contesté la compétence de notre Conférence.  Je voudrais rappeler A ce propos que le Conseil exécutif a, au cours de sa 84e ‘session, pris la  nette décision de saisir la Conférence générale de la question, afin qu'elle puisse adopter de nou-  velles mesures. Done, sur ce point, je crois que la situation est claire, On a prétendu également  que l'adoption du ‘projet de résolution soumis & la Conférence générale constituerait une grave vio-  lation de 1'Acte constitutif. Il est vrai que l'article II, paragraphe 4, de 1'Acte constitatif contient  une dispositign Ne rèmement importante, À savoir que les Etats membres de l'Unesco qui auront  êté suspen dus de l'exercice de leurs ‘droits et privilèges de membres de l'Organisation des Nations  Unies aaron, sur Ja demande de cette dérnière, suspendus des droits et privilèges inhérents à la  qualité de membre". Mais cette dispositidn à pour seul but d'obtenir que lés sanctions intervenues  aux Nations Unies afîent leur plein effet au sein de notre Organisation, Elle répond à'un-principe  général, car on ne pourrait pas concevoir qu'un Etat sanctionné par les Nations Unies pulsse con-  tinuer à bénéficier de tous les droits qué lui confère notre Acte conatitutit. Elle ne tend pas à res-  treindre la Liberté d'action de l'Unesco, autrement dit, elle ne signifie nüllement que l'Unesco no  puisse pas, -de. cu propre chef, prendre des sanctions à l'égard d'un Etat qui a failli gravement à  ses devoirs. lui attribuant une telle signification, nous nous placerions dans une situation para-  doxale, péleque, ans l'hypothèse où un Etat membre aurait failli gravement à ses devoirs, il nous  faudrait porter le différend devant les Natiohs Unies pour obtenir une décteton. Et en vertu de quel  texte ou de quelle procédure pourrions-nous le faire ?
105.2 Nous ne devons pas oublier qué l'Unesco est composée de 134 membres souverairié qui se  sont prononcés dernièrement sur des cas semblables, Certains orateurs ont prétendu que notre  Conférence générale ne peut prendre de sanctions à l'égard d'un Etat membre que si cet Etat a  déjà été sanctionné par l'Organisation des Nations Unies, Pour leur répondre, je pourrais, s'il  en était besoin, me référer A plusieurs décisions de l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies et du  Conseil de sécurité ; mais je me contenterai de mentionner la résolution 298 du 25 septembre 1971  par laquelle le Conseil de sécurité, après avoir constaté qu'Israël avait pris, pour modifier le  statut de la ville de Jérusalem, des mesures portant préjudice aux droits des habitants, aux inté-  rêts de la communauté internationale et A l'établissement d'une paix juste ét durable, a déploré  qu'Israël n'ait pas respecté les décisions et résolutions antérieurement adoptées. Et, même en  supposant que cette décision ne justifie pas l'intervention de notre Organisation - ce qui est contes-  table - nous pouvons nous reporter à un précédent intervenu au cours de la treizième session de  notre Conférence générale en ce qui cojicerne l'ancien gouvernement fasciste du Portugal. Par la  résolution 1,116, la Conférence générele a alors décidé d'écarter le Portugal des réunions convo-  quées par l'Unesco et cette décision a été appliquée par le Conseil exécutif au cours de sa 70e ses-  sion. Ayant dû revenir sur la question au cours de sa quatorzième session - à la suite d'une com-  munfcation reçue du gouvernement faéciste portuga(s - la Conférence générale a adopté le 28 no-  vembre 1966 une résolution par laquelle elle se reconnaissait tout d'abord la qualité d'organe  souverain pour interpréter les dispositions de l'Acte constitutif et notamment les dispositions qui,  À l’article V de cet Acte, confèrent au Conseil exécutif de très larges pouvoirs.
105.3 Après cette brève analyse, je souhaite souligner, Madame la Présidente, que la Conférence  générale, en votant le projet de réscdution qui lui est soumis, ne ferait que se conformer à son  Acte constitutif. C'est Israël qui a viol& cet Acte constitutif en refusant systématiquement, depuis  sept ans, d'exécuter les décisions de la Conférence générale.
105,4 On nous parle enfin de certaines voix qui se sont élevées, celles de René Cassin ou de Jean-  Paul Sartre par exemple, Je voudrais, A ce sujet, poser une sèule question : René Cassin est-il  une seule fois intervenu, en d'autres circonstances, pour dénoncer Ja violation does grands prin-  cipes'de morale internationale qui l'égissent notre Organisation ? Merci, Madame la Présidente,
106,1 The PRESIDENT: ;  I thank the delegate of Algeria. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now take up the resolution  contained in paragraph 51 of the report of Commission III,
106.2 The Commisalôn recommend td by 54 votes to 21; with 25 abstentions, that the General  Conference adopt the resolution concerning the implementation of the resolutions of the Geriéral  Conference and decisions of the Executive Board concerning the protection of cultural property in  Jerusalem,
107, Mr. JONES (United States of Ainérica):  A point of order, Madam President. Madam President, I would like to have a separate vote  on the operative paragraphe please. Thank you.
108. .The PRESIDENT: 39  Thank you. The delegate of Egypt wants to speak on a pofnt of order.
109, M. EL WAKIL (République arabe d'Egypte). -  Je demande, Madame la Présidente, qu'il soit procédé à un vote par appel nominal.
110, The PRESIDENT: ‘  I beg your pardon. Do you want a roll-call vote on the whole resolution?
111. M. EL WAKIL (République arabe d'Egypte). -  Sur le paragraphe 3 particulièrement.  +
112. The PRESIDENT: ,Ç  I thank the delegate of Egypt, and I give the flcor to the delegate of Algeria.
113. M, DERRADJI (Algérie). -  Madame la Présidente, j'approuve pleinement la proposition du distingué représentant de  l'Egypte, Je demande donc qu'on procède à deux votes par appel nominal : le premier sur le para-  graphe 3 et le second sur l'ensemble de la résolution, :
114. The PRESIDENT: .  Thank you, The delegate of Chile has the floor.
115, E) Sr, BERGUNO (Chile): . : .  Senora Presidenta, yo deseo pedir voto separado sobre el pdrrafo de los considerandos que  dice "Guiada por las decisiones anteriormente aprobadas por la Conferencia Geueral",  {115) Mr. BERGURO (Chile) (Translation from the Spanish):  Madam President, 1 should like to request a separate vote on the preambular paragraph which begins  "Guided by precedents adopted by the General Conference, ..".
116. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall ask the Secretary of the General Conference to  explain the procedure we are going to follow.
117.1 The SECRETARY:  Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, a separate vote was asked for by Chile on  the paragraph which precedes the three operative paragraphs and which starts: “Guided by  precedents adopted by the General Conference... ".
117,2 Then, the United States of America, if 1 understood rightly, asked for a separate vote on  each of the three operative paragraphs, one by one,
118, Mr, JONES (United States of America):  That is correct, I request a separate vote on each of the operative paragraphs,
119. The SECRETARY:  Thank you. Then, finally, a roll-call vote was asked for on operative paragraph 3: "Invites  the Director-General and, ,.". This means that the vote should be taken by show of hands until  we come to operative paragraph 3, when it would be by roll-call, Thank you, Madam President,
120.1 The PRESIDENT:  Well, I shall now put to the vote the last paragraph of the preamble,
120.2 ‘The delegate of Sudan wishes to speak on a point of order,
121, Mr, AZIM (Sudan): a.  My delegation aske for à roll-call vote on all the paragraphs and on the resolution as a whole.
122.1 The PRESIDENT:  Is the proposal of Sudan seconded by another delegation?
122.2 It is not seconded, The delegate of Sudan has‘the floor.
123, Mr, AZIM (Sudan):  Madam President, 1 would like to ask for a roll-call vote on the resolution as a whole end on  the third paragraph. That is ail. |
124.1 The PRESIDENT: ‘ x  I put to the vote the last paragraph of the preamble beginning: "Guided by precedents adopted  by the General Conference,.."  (The vote was taken by show of hands.)
124,2 The last paragraph of the preamble has been adopted by 79 votes to 12, with 26 abstentions,
124, 3 [I put to the vote operative paragraph 1, beginning: "Reaffirms ant the resolutions..."  (The vote was taken by show of hands, )
124, 4 Operative paragraph 1 has been adopted by 80 votes to 8, with 29 abstentions.
124.5 I put to the vote operative paragraph 2, beginning: "Condemns Israel for its attitude, ,. ",  (The vote was taken by show of hands, ) 5
124,6 Operative paragraph 2 has been adopted by 78 votes to 18, with 24 abstentions,
124.7 1 put to the vote operative paragraph 3.  {Le vote a lieu par appel nominal) :  Ont voté pour: Yémen, République démocraticue populaire du Yémen, Yougoslavie, République  du Zaire, Afghanistan, Algérie, Arable saoudite, Bahrein, Bangladesh, RSS de Biélorvssie,  Bulgarie, Chine, Congo (République populaire du}, République de Corée, Cuba, République  arabe d'Egypte, Emirats arabes unis, Espagne, Gambie, Ghana, Guinée, Hongrie, Inde, Indo-  nésie, Irak, Iran, Jordanie, Koweit, Liban, République arabe libyenne, Madagascar, Malaisie,  Malte, Maroc, Mauritanie, Mongolie, Niger, Nigeria, Ouganda, Oman, Pakistan, Pérou,  Pologne, Qatar, République démocratique allemande, Républiqué populaire démocratique de  Corée, Roumanie, Rwanda, Somalie, Soudan, République arabe syrienne, Tchad, Tchécoalo-  vaquie, Togo, Trinité-et-Tobago, Tunisie, Turquie, RSS d'Ukraine, Union des républiques  socialistes soviétiques.  Ont voté contre : République fédérale d'Allemagne, Australie, Autriche, Belgique, Bolivie,  Canada, Chili, Costa Rica, Danémark, Equateur, Etats-Unis d'Amérique, Finlande, France,  Guatemala, Hafti, Honduras, Irlande, Islande, Israël, Italie, Japon, Luxembourg, Monaco,  Népal, Nicaragua, Norvège, Nouvelle-Zélande, Panama, Pays-Bas, Royaume-Uni, Suède,  Suisse, Uruguay, Venezuela,  Se sont abstenus : Zambie, Argentine, Brésil, Cameroun, République centrafricaine,  Colombie, Dahomey, El Salyador, Ethiopie, Gabon, Grèce, Jamaîque, Kenya, Lesotho,  Liberia, Malawi, Maurice, Mexique, Philipines, Portugal, Sénégal, Sierra Leone, Singapour,  Tanzanie. : :  Etaients absents ; Albanie, Barbade, Birmanie, Burundi, Chypre, Côte-d'Ivoire, République  dominicaine, Guinée-Bissau, Guyane, Haute-Volta, Laos, Mali, Paraguay, Saint-Marin,  République de Sri-Lanka, Thaflande, République du Viêt-nam,
124,8 Operative paragraph 3 has been adopted by 59 votes to 34, with 24 abstentions,
124.9 Now, we will vote on the resolution as a whole.  (Le vote a lieu par appel nominal) :  Ont voté pour la résolution : Yémen, République démocratique populaire du Yémen, Yougos-  Tavie, République du Zaïre, Afghanistan, Algérie, Arabie saoudite, Bahrein, Bangladesh,  RSS de Biélorussie, Brésil, Bulgarie, Chili, Chine, Congo {République populaire du), Répu-  blique de Corée, Cuba, Dahomey, République arabe d'Egypte, Emirats arabes vids, Espagne,  Gambie, Ghana, Guinée, Hongrie, Inde, Indonésie, Irak, Iran, Jamaïque, Jordanie, Koweït,  Liban, République arabe libyenne, Madagascar, Malaisie, Malte, Maroc, Mauritanie, Mon-  golie, Niger, Nigerla, Ouganda, Oman, Pakistan, Pérou, Pologne, Qatar, République démo-  cratique allemande, République populaire démocratique de Corée, Roumanie, Rwanda, Somalie,  Soudan, République arabe syrienne, Tanzanie, Tchad, ‘Tchécoslovaquie, Togo, Trinité-et-  Tobago, Tunisie, Turquie, RSS d'Ukraine, Union des républiques socialistes soviétiques.  Ont voté contre : République fédérale d'Allemagne, Australie, Belgique, Bolivie, Canada,  Costa Rica, Danemark, Equateur, Etats-Unis d'Amérique, France, Guatemala, Hafti,  Honduras, Irlande, Islande, Israël, Italie, Luxembourg, Monaco, Nicaragua, Norvège,  Nouvelle-Zélande, Panama, Pays-Bas, Royaume-Uni, Suède, Venezuela.  Se sont abstenus : Zambie, Argentine, Autriche, Cameroun, Républiquè centrafricaine,  Colombie, El Salvador, Ethiopie, Finlande, Gabon, Grèce, Japon, Kenya, Lesotho, Libéria,  Malawi, Maurice, Mexique, Népal, Philippines, Fortugal, Sénégal, Sierra Leone, Singapour,  Suisse, Uruguay.  Etatent absents : Albanie, Barbade, Birmanie, Burundi, Chypré, Côte-d'Ivoire, République  dominicaine, Guinée-Bissau, Guyane, Haute-Volta, Laos, Mali, Paraguay, Saint-Marin,  République de Sri Lanka, Thaflande, République du Vièt-nam.
124,10 The resolution as a whole has been adopted by 64 votes to 27, with 26 abstentions,  (Mr, Martin (United Kingdom), Vice-President of the General Conference took the Chair,
125.1 The PRESIDENT:  Ladies and gentlemen, as I think many of you know, we have a rendezvous with the President  of the General Conference at seven o'clock, I therefore propose to adjourn this meeting either  exactly at seven o'clock or a few minutes after, I already have six speakers on the Hat to explain  thefr votes, Egypt, Dahomey, Chile, Fruguay, United States of America, Israel and France, Are  there any more people wishing to explain their votes before I declare the list closed?
125.2 Before we proceed to explanations of vote, the Director-General would like to say a few  words and it seems to me that this is the best way of using up the remaining ten minutes which  are left to us before we adjourn, Therefore, I call on the Director-General to address you.
126.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL :  Monsieur le Président, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégubs, après le vote que vous venez  d'émettre j'ai estimé devoir m'adresser à vous très brièvement.
126.2 Tout d'abord, je tiens à vous assurer que mon absence pendant vos débats n'était pas le  signe d'un manque d'intérêt, loin de là. Je mesure notamment toute la portée et toute ia gravité  de la décision que vous venez de prendre ; le Directeur général adjoint m'a du reste tenu au cou-  rant de vos délibérations, et j'ai pu moi-même, de mon bureau, en suivre certaines parties,
128,3 Il va de sol que celle résolution sera, comme toutes les autres résolutions de la Conférence  générale, appliquée loyalement. Concernant son champ d'application, je m'en tiendrai à l'interpré-  tation qu'a déjà donnée en commission le Directeur général adfoint et ne manquerai pas de saisir le  Conseil exécutif de tout problème que souldverait sa mise en oeuvre,
126.4 Quant au problème de fond que soulèvent les résolutions de même nature, dont l'importance  pour la vie de cette Organisation n'échappe à personne, je compte y revenir lors de la déclaration  que je feral À Ja fin de vos travaux, Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
127,1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Director-General.
127.2 Owing to the lateness of the hour, 1 propose to adjourn the meeting and to begin the next  meeting at nine o'clock, or as soon as 1 possibly can thereafter when 1 have a quorum.
127.3 We will begin the next meeting with the explanations of vote. There are eleven of them,  and £ think that the list {s closed. I would appeal to all eleven speakers to be as brief as they can.  After these explanations of vote, there is the question of the proposition put forward by the delegate  of Mexico, Following that, there remains a small part of the Report of the Commission, and  then we move on to our next business,
127.4 So, ladies and gentlemen, for the moment the meeting is adjourned, Please be here as  soon as you can after nine o’clock.  The meeting rose at 8.55 p.m.  La séance est levée à 18h. $5  Se levanta la seslôn a las 18. 55