Twenty-third plenary meeting
12 November 1974 at 10, 35 a, m,  President: Mr. UPTON (United States of America)  Vingt-troisième séance plénière
12 novembre 1974, à 10 h, 35  Président : M. UPTON (Etats-Unis d'Amérique)  Vigesimotercera sesiôn plenaria
12 HoaGpa 1974 r, 8 10 y. 35 MHH.  MNpeacenarens: r-u Anron (CoeannexHsie INTaT;! AMEPHKH)
55 dadl, SI LUI LA  at 1aY¢ oe certsz is: 1  FOURTH SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE  QUATRIEME RAPPORT SUPPLEMENTAIRE DU PRESIDENT DU COMITE DE VERIFICATION  DES POUVOIRS  CUARTO INFORME COMPLEMENTARIO DEL PRESIDENTE DEL COMITE DE VERIFICACION  DE PODERES  YETBEPTBIH HONOJNHHTENbHBIH NOKNAL NPEACEAATENS KOMHTETA NO MPOBEPKE  TONHOMOYHH  Vus V1 5S ES ass de) us POLL RIB) LO HT |
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  I regret to have to announce that Mrs, Jôbordû is not feeling well this morning and is unable  to serve as our President for the conclusion of the general policy debate, She has asked me, as  one of the Vice-Presidents, to preside in her absence.
1.2 As the first item of business, I would like to call on the Chairman of the Credentials  Committee, Mr. Etemadi, to present his fourth supplementary report.
2,1 M, ETEMADI (président du Comité de vérification des pouvoirs). - ‘  Monsieur le Président, conformément à l'autorisation qui m'a été donnée par le Comité de  vérification des pouvoirs lors de ea première séance, j'ai l'honneur de présenter à la Conférence  générale le rapport suivant.
2,2 Depils la présentation de mon troisième rapport, des pouvoirs en bonne et due forme ont été  reçus des Etats membres ci-après qui avaient déjà présenté des pouvoirs provisoires : Congo,  Egypte, Liban, Zambte, Malte, Pakistan, Pérou, Zaire.
2,3 Conformément à l'autorisation qui m'a été donnée par le Comité, je propose à la Conférence  générale que les délégations de ces Etats soient définitivement admises à participer aux travaux  de la dix-huitième session de la Conférence générale,
2,4 Des pouvoirs provisoires ont d'autre part été reçus de la Guyane et de la Guinée,
2.5 Conformément à l'autorisation qui m'a été donnée par le Comité, je propose à la Conférence  générale que les délégations de ces Etats soient admises à participer à titre provisoire aux tra-  vaux de la dix-huitième session de la Conférence générale,
2,6 La Namibie, Membre associé, a, elle aussi, présenté des pouvoirs provisoires,
23 2,7 Conformément à l'autorisation qui m'a été donnée par le Comité, je propose que la délégation  de ce Membre associé soit admise à participer à titre provisoire à la dix-huitième session de la  Conférence générale, Merci, Monsieur le Président.
3,1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr, Etemadi, I now call on the General Conference to act on this report,
3,2 In the absence of any objection, ! deélare it approved by acclamation,  ADDITION OF A NEW ITEM TO THE AGENDA  INSCRIPTION D'UN NOUVEAU POINT A L'ORDRE DU JOUR  INCLUSION DE UN NEUVO PUNTO EN EL ORDEN DEL DIA  BHECEHHE .HOBOI'O IYHKTA B IIOBECTKY IHS  Jle¥l Yom ji oa ay gl, 0d
4,1 The PRESIDENT:  I should now like to report to you on the work of the General Committee in the last few days,  The General Committee as usual received thé reports of the Chairmen of Commissions and Com-  mittees and took all measures necessary for the normal working of the General Conference,
4,2 On Friday last and again this morning the General Committee dealt with the question of how  to mark the departure of Mr, René Maheu after 12 years as Director-General of Unesco, The  General Committee felt that this event merited the attention of the General Conference, which  should pay tribute in an appropriate way to his work and to his person. To this end, the General  Committee proposes to the General Conference that a new item should be added to the agenda  entitled: "Tribute to the Director-General".
4,3 Inow formally submit this proposal to you, Under the terms of Rule 14, paragraph 2, of  the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, a two-thirds majority is needed for this  purpose,
4.4 As I see no objection to the proposal of the General Committee, 1 declare it adopted  unanimously,
4.5 The General Committee further examined the way in which this tribute to Mr. Maheu could  be organized and it decided to reserve the morning plenary meeting on Thursday, 14 November,  for the purpose, It established a list of speakers representing different regions, who will be  called upon on this occasion.
4,6 The General Committee then confirmed that the appointment of the Director-General, which  is item 10 of the agenda, will take place in the afternoon of Thursday, 14 November, as  foreseen.
4.7 The last decision of the General Committee concerns the meeting at which the General  Conference will proceed to install the new Director-General, The morning plenary meeting on  Friday, 15 November, which will start at 9.30 a, m. will be reserved for this purpose. The  General Committee decided that on that occasion the 15 Vice-Presidents of the General Conference  will speak in the name of the Member States.  REPORT OF THE DRAFTING COMMITTEE TO DRAW UP THE CONCLUSIONS OF THE  GENERAL POLICY DEBATE  RAPPORT DU COMITE DU REDACTION CHARGE DE REDIGER LES CONCLUSIONS DU DEBAT  DE POLITIQUE GENERALE .  INFORME DEL COMITE DE REDACCION ENCARGADO DE FORMULAR LAS CONCLUSIONES  DEL DEBATE DE POLITICA GENERAL  AOKJHAIN PERAKIIHOHHOI'O KOMHTETA MO MOAT OTOBKE BLIBOAOB H3 OBCY X AEHH I  BONPOCOB OBIEH IOJIHTHKH  Callie ladlast Lae opal a) estat pda Y ball ed 55
5, The PRESIDENT:  We will now proceed to the order of business of the morning: the conclusion of the general  policy debate, I will first give the floor to Mr, Hela, the Chairman of the Drafting Committee,
6.1 Mr, HELA (Finland), Chairman of the Drafting Committee:  Mr, President, on 21 October the President, with the approval of the General Conference,  established a Drafting Commitiee to formulate the conclusions of the general policy debate. This  Drafting Committee consisted of representatives of Bulgaria, Finland, India, Netherlands, Togo,  Tunisia and Venezuela, The result of our work is before you as document 18 C/119,
6.2 Our Drafting Committee represented a fortunate combination of, 1 would say, both analogous 23  and differing views, which fact explains, at least partly, our relative success, Moreover, we had  the privilege of the very able assistance of two secretaries - and I wish to mention their names,  Mr, Burton and Mr, Rosenbaum, They clarified and finalfzed our own amendments with great  skill, and they drafted and redrafted for us without counting their time, working not like secre-  taries, but like two philosophers, to our greatest satisfaction and even admiration, .
6.3 When we began to think of our task, Mr, President, we had an ideal before us: the analogous  resolution of the seventeenth session of the General Conference, which resolution we had con-  sidered excellent, But we came very soon to the conclusion that the general policy debate of the  eighteenth session was basically rather different from that of the seventeenth session, At the  outset I at least was almost frightened on realizing how little we could make use of earlier,  analogous resolutions. At the same time, this necessary revision or rewriting of the basic  drafting was an interesting and a significant task, The present general policy debate gave a clear  proof that the world has changed very much indeed during the short period of two years, We all  are more or less aware. of this development; but only when analysing and summarizing the state-  ments presented by the heads of the delegations do we actually realize the rapidity of changes in  our world,
6.4 Moreover, the speeches by the heads of the delegations, which to a great extent guide the  ongoing work and pre-programming performed by the Secretariat, clearly indicate that our  Organization is also developing with the changing world, matching the expanding needs and desires  of the Member States, This observation clearly indicates that our Organization has not been stag-  nant during these years, Considering that the programmes of Unesco have to be not only realistic  and practicable but also characterized both by the necessary continuity and by real innovations,  I cannot but come to the conclusion that under the directorship of Mr, René Maheu, the innova-  tions have dominated to a significant extent all the planning in the House, partly as the result of  the rapidly evolving character and contents of the general policy debate, ’
6.5 The task of condensing the actual contents of some 1, 100 pages of speeches into 12 pages, the  contents of which must correspond to the majority views or rather to a consensus, without any  votes taken, is not an easy one, One could even ask whether or not this undertaking serves any  useful purpose, At least I personally found the earlier, analogous resolutions in many cases  useful ag source material, The same applies to certain components of the Secretariat. This was  our basic motivation to try to do our task well,
6.6 I would like to mention in the first place the three basic principles which prevail throughout  our document, and which we kept in mind when drafting:
(1) It would have been impossible to repeat all that was said in all the interventions. We  had to concentrate our drafting upon the thoughts underlying the general policy debate.
(2) Our goal was to present conclusions which could eventually be adopted by the General  Conference unanimously. A vote on the conclusions, say with 75 votes for, 15 against and
20 abstentions, would be a proof that your Drafting Committee had failed in ite efforts and  that document 18 C/119 was useless, 1am very happy to inform the General Conference that  the Drafting Committee - after lengthy discussions both in our ineetings and in the couloirs -  was fully unanimous,
(3) In spite of the above limitations we had to present the truth, that is, the actual spirit  of the general policy debate, It will be for the delegates to state whether or not we have  succeeded in this respect,
6.7 Mr. President, having this morning agreed on this course with the President of the General  Conference, and with your kind permission, 1 shall now draw the attention of the distinguished  delegates to a few significant points, The basic reason for this is the fact that document 11} C/119  was made available only on Saturday afternoon, and as I was told this morning, many delegates  have not had the time to read it, I hope that my oral presentation will help delegates to appre-  ciate and perhaps to accept the spirit prevailing in the general policy debate, Accordingly I  select the following passages from document 18 C/119: ’  "1, PRINCIPLES AND OBJECTIVES
1. +... Unesco's prime objective is to contribute to the maintenance of peace by promoting  understanding between nations through persevering and imaginative activities within its  fields of competence,
2, These activities cannot be fully carried out unless the Organization achieves universality,  There is therefore reason for satisfaction at the progress which has been achieved in  this respect at the eighteenth session with the admission of new Member States and Associate  Members and the granting of observer status to several national liberation movements,
3, The positive and significant changes that have taken place In international affafrs, as  well as certain trends towards a relaxation of tension and the development of co-
23 operation between States of different eoclal systems, tend to create favourable conditions  for tha activities of Unesco, It is therefore important that Unesco continue to support the  consolidation of peace and international security, to give to the process of détente through-  out the world an irreversible character,
4, LC  §. We muat,... never fail to call attention to the fact that hundreds of millions of human  beings, threatened by poverty, hunger, disease and ignorance, have not yet reached the  threshold of human dignity, For their sake, development must come right after peace in  the Organization's priorities, and special efforts must be made on behalf of the least  developed countries,
6. ....development {s by no means confined to economic growth, but has a cultural dimen-  sion and calls for activities in education and science.
7. Development is the response to the demand for justice not only at the national.... but  also at the international level, It cannot therefore be dissociated from social progress  which aims to link all atrata of society with the national effort and to make the benefits of this  effort available to them, .... lt calls for multilateral action aimed at the introduction of  human rights and dignity on a global scale, of co-operation on an equal footing between the  nations, as a prerequisite for a just and lasting peace,
8. We must [always remember / that the cultural dimension of development is one of its  most important components, ...,
9. /Development/ aid must not be regarded as charity, In a spirit of international co-  operation based on equity, aid must be aimed at helping the developing countries to use  their natural resources for a better use of their manpower, This co-operation will not only  call for a better use of science and technology, but also for an improvement of education,  since the most valuable capital which a society can accumulate for its development is a  well-trained population,
10, Furthermore, if International co-operation takes place on a footing of equality, with all  due respect for the sovereignty, dignity and specific characteristics of each country, it  will become a source of mutual enrichment as regards human values, ....
12, While giving activities for development the great importance they deserve, Unesco  should not, however, neglect its ethical mission nor the part it has to play as an inter-  national instrument of intellectual co-operation, both on the world-wide and regional levels,  se. The success of its major programmes of international scientific co-operation demon-  strates that it can and must continue to render great services in this sphere, providing  encouragement and co-ordination for all Member States, including the most developed,
13, An outstanding characteristic of mankind's present state is the enormous disparity which  exists between nations and which takes the form of a great imbalance in the use of the  world's resources, Faced with this situation, Unesco should, within its fields of competence,  endeavour to remedy this disparity, particularly by alerting public opinion and by evolving  new concepts of international justice with a view to a fairer sharing of the world's resources.
14, Nevertheless, all countries have to face some common problems, For example, problems  such as population, society's control over scientific and technological innovations, the  environment, youth, discriminatory practices and the abuse of drugs call for concerted  action on the part of the international community, in order to improve the well-being of  individuals,
15, All countries should continue their efforts for disarmament and the reduction of military  budgets to release resources for the strengthening of activities essential to the well-  being and progress of the nations,
16, The continuing existence of trouble spots and the resurgence of fascist and neo-fascist  forces in various parts of the world call for further effective efforts to increase Unesco's  contribution to the defence of human rights and fundamental freedoms, to peace and to the  cause of disarmament,
1I, WAYS AND MEANS TO ATTAIN THE OBJECTIVES AND TO INCREASE THE  EFFECTIVENESS OF UNESCO  A, The Programme
18, In view of the great number and complexity of ita tasks, with the danger of dissipation 23  of effort this implies, Unesco must plan its action in the context of an overall policy  capable of responding more effectively to the fundamental needs of the present-day world,  Such an approach should be reflected !n a greater effort of concentration,
24, Nowhere does Unesco's rôle as a 'shaper of the future' appear so clearly as in educa-  tion, By providing intellectual leadership and appropriate advice adapted to the needs  and conditions of Member States, Unesco should contribute to the emergence of educational  systems directed towards the twofold aim of individual fulfilment and national development,  Education is still the major factor - cultural, economic and social - in the development  process which is designed to bridge the gap between the developing and the developed  countries.
25, Unesco should continue to work for the twin objectives ri democratization and renewal  of education, bearing in mind the need to facilitate access to the various levels of educa-  tion, particularly for women and the rural population, as well as the underlying need to  promote equality of opportunity throughout the educational system, ....
26, Greater attention should be paid to education for peace and international understanding.  sare
27. The structures and the content of education should be responsive to the requirements of  social and economic development. .,.. Life-long education has a special contribution to  make in enhancing flexibility for vocational training and career readaptation. However, it  would be erroneous to view life-long education as serving solely vocational ends: properly  conceived, itis cultural in the broadest sense of the term,
28. Literacy efforts remain tragically insufficient in view of the magnitude of the world's  needs. «au
29, Adult education should be intensified by using new teaching methods and techniques, ....  While the modern term life-long education! has gained world-wide acceptance, one  should not overlook the continuing significance of 'adult education’, of which the literacy  campaigns and the vocational training and retraining of adults form an essential part, .,..
34, Lans
35, Programmes to harness science and technology to the tasks of development, in particu-  lar through appropriate transfers of knowledge within the framework of suitable national  science policies, should be developed and strengthened. ..,.
36. It would be desirable to enable the social sciences and the humanities to occupy à more  central place in Une&co's programme and to make a greater contribution in particular  to research on peace and development, .,..
37. .... Unesco should promote an increased awareness of the importance of culture as a  factor of national identity, For the developing countries, the rediscovery of their own  authentic cultural identity, with Unedco's assistance, should serve to dispel, or to overcome,  the aftermath of colonization. A vital national culture may serve to protect the original  and unique spiritual values of a country against the impact of an imported technology. ....
38, Cultural policies should be worked out in harmony with educational and scientific  policies as they are related to a general policy of economic and social development.  They should have, inter alia, two complementary aspects: on the one hand, they should con-  tribute to the preservation of cultural values, e.g. the collection of oral traditions, and,  on the other, should stimulate artistic creativity, within both a traditional and a modern
23 framework, In the process, freedom of artistic expression should be safeguarded and an  opportunity should be afforded to all to participate in cultural activities either actively or  passively,
42, Communication and the free flow of information, whose importance is rightly recognized  by the Constitution, continue to play a vital réle in development, the democratization  of culture, education and social change, It is important, however, that communication  should promote a two-way flow of information if the world is not to be divided into producers,  on the one hand, and passive consumers of information, on the other. ....
43, Questions relating to the content of information should be the subjzct of special aware-  ness by those responsible for the mass media, which might take the form subsequently  of the adoption of a code of ethics, «4.4
46, The determination of all countries to strengthen peace and International co-operation  by promoting justice and the respect of human rights obliges the Organization, in the  fields of its competence, to pursue a course of action which needs to be innovative, effective  and flexible and should be intrinsically multidisciplinary, ....
47, ou
48, Unesco was established as a consequence of the end of the Second World War, that  ‘great and terrible war made possible by the denial of the democratic principles of the  dignity, equality and mutual respect of men’, the thirtieth anniversary of which is to be  marked in 1975, This turning-point in modern history was also the beginning of the trium-  phant struggle of the peoples against colonialism, Unesco should therefore consider the  possibility of reflecting this historic date in its publications and other activities, whenever  appropriate,
49, If it is to be conducted on a sufficiently large scale and meet the demands of our time,  fihe/ inter-sectoral programme fon human rights and peace/ calls, as a first priority,  for close collaboration with Member States, the United Nations system and with appropriate  international non-governmental organizations with regard to the Decade for action to combat  racism and racial discrimination, Unesco's tasks in connexion with the eradication of coloni-  alism, and International Women's Year proclaimed for 1975,,.. °
50. .... The active rôle of girls and women should not be seen as a problem of equality alone  but also as a solution for many cf the most significant problems of national development  and international co-operation, ..,..
51, The problem created by the fact that world population is presently growing more rapidly  than world food production, which is seriously aggravated by lack of proper distribution,  as well as by economic and social shortcomings, has led in many parts of the globe to wide-  spread conditions of undernourishment and even famine, While recognizing that emergency  ald is within the purview of other agencies, Unesco should intensify its contribution In the  fields of population education and research, chiefly in the environmental and social sciences.
55, If the action undertaken by Unesco is to attain to the full the desired scope and effective-  ness, it must not be confined to the specific activities of the Secretariat, but must be  reinforced by action in its Member States, using to this end all possible means,
56. . . ++ The National Commissions should be endowed with more substantial resources and  should be provided with increased aid by the Secretariat in countries where they are not  yet sufficiently developed, .
57, Unesco should assist Member States at their request in planning and developing their  national policies in education, science, culture and communication by making available  to them its own expertise, as well as the experience of other Member States with similar  probléms, in the form of advisory services at the highest level,
58. In order to bring the Unesco Secretariat closer to realities in the Member States, a 23  policy of reasonable decentralization and regionalization must be pursued,
59, In this connexion, the importance of regional and sub-regional co-operation, which has  met with notable successes, should be emphasized, ....
62. .... the Secretariat should increase measures designed to improve the efficiency of its  work, For instance, means of modernizing and streamlining its management should be  sought and applied, especially by simplifying procedures, generalizing evaluation and assess-  ment activities and, possibly, introducing a system of management by objectives,
64. As regards personnel, more effective efforts should be undertaken to improve geograph-  ical and cultural distribution, to promote the access of women in posts in the Profes-  sional category and at Director level, to improve the qualifications of staff by in-service  training, for example by retraining courses, to provide experts sent to the Field with more  comprehensive training, and to develop the 'intern' programme.
66. Efforts to achieve greater savings and to avoid waste are all the more essential in view  of the fact that the Organization's total resources, including extra-budgetary funds, are  very limited indeed as compared with the real needs of Member States in the Organization's  fields of competence, ....
68, Co-ordination between the activities of Unesco and those of other organizations of the  United Nations system should be pursued in order to avoid overlapping and duplication,  on the one hand, which have already been largely eliminated, as well as in order to carry out  action that is fully concerted and therefore more effective, on the other, ....
700 vous [And finally, / Unesco is in duty bound to respond favourably to the invitation made  to it to contribute to the establishment of a new world economic order based on justice,  What is called for in the circumstances is an attempt at critical reflection and action which  goes far beyond the merely economic aspects. All the agencies of the United Nations system  have the duty to help promote the advent of a better world in which pragmatism will give  way to rationality. Experience has shown all too clearly that, in the interests of efficiency,  it is incumbent on Unesco to emphasize the social and cultural aspect of the work to be  achieved and to contribute to the necessary economic changes not only through science and  technology, but also through education and culture,
6.8 Mr, President, with these words of introduction on behalf of your Drafting Committee set  up to draw up the conclusions of the general policy debate, I have the great privilege and honour  of presenting you, Mr, President, and through you to the General Conference, with the draft  resolution in document 18 C/119 for adoption by the General Conference, Ithas been our joint  desire, in ourunanimous undertaking, that our draft resolution could be adopted by the General  Conference unanimously, Thank you, Mr. President.
7.1 The PRESIDENT! . ,Û  I thank you, Mr. Hela, for this report and, through you, I thank the members of the Draft-  ing Committee who helped to prepare document 18 C/119,
7.2 Discussion on document 18 C/119 is now open, I give tha floor to th> delegate of Jamaica.
8.1 Mr. WYNTER (Jamaica):  Mr. President, we should like to commend the Drafting Committee and its distinguished  Chairman on the excellence of the document before us. But we should like to suggest one or two  slight alterations which might make it easier for us to adopt it.
8.2 Mr, President, I refer to the draft resolution in the Annex to the document and to the clause  on‘the first page that begins: "Being aware, however, ...". This clause and the following one  refer to document 18 C/4, and my delegation does not believe they are necessary in a resolution  dealing with the conclusions of the general debate: because when the Conference comes to deal :  with document 18 C/4 in plenary, it will then take whatever action it ought to take on it, We
595   think we should limit ourselves at thie stage to the conclusions of the general debate, and  accordingly, we propose that these two paragraphs should be deleted, It is more logical to move  from saying: "Considering it necessary, for the guidance of the Organization's future activities,  to formulate in a general resolution the main conclusions which emerge from that debate", to  saying "1, Invites Member States to pay due attention to the following conclusions in the pursuit  of their national activities,,." and then "2, Invites the Executive Board and the Director-General  to take account of these same conclusions in preparing the Draft Programme and Budget for
1977-1978 (document 19 C/5)...'' Moreover, Mr, President, we propose that a full stop should  be put after "(document 19 C/5)" and that the reference to document 19 C/4 should be deleted,  because many other resolutions besides the one dealing with document 18 C/4 will have to be  taken into account, I repeat: we should limit ourselves in this resolution to the conclusions of  the general policy debate,
8,3 Finally, Mr, President, we should like to ask a question about paragraph 5 in Part ! on  Principles and Objectives. We should like to know what the following sentence means: "For thelr  sake, development must come right after peace in the Organization's priorities, and special  efforts must be made on behalf of the least developed countries", We do not understand what is  meant by ''development must come right after peace”, Those, Mr, President, are the comments  my delegation would like to make on this very excellent draft, We hope that it will find favour  with all delegations who epeak on it. Thank you Mr, President,
9, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Jamaica, and I now give the floor to the Director-General,
10.1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL, -  Monsieur le Président, juste un mot pour dire que la remarque que vient de faire le distingué  délégué de la Jamalque concernant les deux derniers paragraphes du préambule me paraft extré-  mement pertinente,
10.2 J'avais moi-même trouvé la rédaction de ces deux paragraphes un peu gauche et je songeals  à proposer une version plus simple, Mais la meilleure solution me paraft de beaucoup la suppres-  sion pure et simple de ces paragraphes, où il est dit que l'on ne veut pas se référer à un document  alors qu'en fait on s'y réfère.
10.3 Je me permets donc d'appuyer la proposition de M, le délégué de la Jamafque.
11, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Director-General for his remarks, and I now give the floor to the delegate from  Australia,
12, Miss TURNBULL (Australia):  Thank you, Mr. President, First, I would like to thank the Drafting Committee for an  extremely able synthesis of the many themes that were raised during the general policy debate.  Our delegation is reluctant to question small points in such an impressive draft, However, I  would like to comment on one rather jarring note in paragraph 7. The sentence that ! refer to  is in the context of development, and states: "Development serves Man and all men", Ido not  know what the translation is in other languages, but in the English text, we would suggest that  this could be more appropriately worded to read "Development serves mankind" or alternatively,  "Development serves humanity" to reflect the concern of the Conference for the well-being of  women and children, as well as for the well-being of the male of the species, Thank you,  Mr. President.
13. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate froin Australia, and I call on the delegate from Peru,
(14.1) Mr. CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr, President the delegation of Peru congratulates Mr, Hela and the Drafting Committee for the  splendid document that they have prepared and joins with the Chairman of the Drafting Committee in hop-  ing that it will be adopted unanimously,
(14.2) None the less, Mr, President, we should like to maké a few observations about the general debate,  and we think that they might add something of value to the document.
(14,3) With regard to Section I, Principles and Objectives: in the most recent General Conferences of  Unesco a new idea has come to the fore, which replaces that of the maintenance of peace - not excluding  it, but enhancing it, This Is the Idea of the "development of peace”, The maintenance of peace is a static  and unrealistic idea. The world is not at peace, but there is a germ of peace in it, and that we should  develop. We therefore propose substituting "development of péace" for "maintenance of peace”, since the  former does not exciude but rather includes and enhances the latter.
(14,4) Secondly, paragraph 5 states that development must come right after peace in the Organization's  priorities, We wish to point out that development should not be conceived of as an end in itself, but as a  means, We would therefore suggest that the term used should be "integral and balanced development",  which suggests the bullding of balanced eocieties rather than very high! ¢ developed ones.
(14.5) In paragraph 13, we would suggest using the term "a really fa!" tharing of the world's resources  rather than "a fairer sharing",
23 (14, 6) - Paragraph 24 stetes that education "is still the major factor - cultural, economie and social -  in the development process .,.'. It would be more realistic to say that it "'is still one of the major fac-  tors", and not the major one,
(14. 7) With regard to paragraph 26, which speaks of education for peace and international understanding,  Unesco's work must not be based solély on helping the peoples of Member States to know more about each  other by promoting the publication of books, All this is of secondary importance compared with certain  basic points which the delegation of Peru has raised,
(14.8) We mut add that the promotion of international understanding should help the peoples of Member  States to get , know each other better, so that they become aware of the disagreements on economic and  political musics from which international misunderstanding arises and of the Incompatibility between the  interests of peoples and monopoly interests which are the root and cause of international misunderstanding.  I believe that a reference to this would enhance the document still more,
(14.9) Returning to the end of paragraph 24, 1 wish lo say that I do hot believe that this fs the historical  task of the emerging Third World, 1 do not belfeve that the task of the twentieth century is to bridge the  gap that separates us from the advanced countries, because that implieg that there is a model which we  should imitate and which we should try to reproduce, We propose that this paragraph should state that  education continues to be, and shou'd continue to be, one of the major factors - cultural, economic and  social - in the development process, which is designed to bring about a balanced world structure,
(14,10) With regard to communication, Mr, President, objections have been raised severel times during  this Conference in connexion with the idea of the free flow of information to which paragraph 42 refers, !  realize that this idea is expressed in the Conclitution, and cannot readily be changed; but we must try to  make people realize the need for objective and balanced information, The free flow of information js an  idea which disguises a real situation where free flow does not exist, We propose, therefore, that thought  be given to this, but we do not suggest any change for the moment,
(14. 11) In the part relating to communication we should also like to see it stated that society must control  the communication media if communication is to be democratized, Hitherto there have been {wo systems  fn the world: the system of the private ownership of the communication media intended for the public, which  produces a one-way, vertical, non-constructive kind of communication, manipulated end exploited Ly eco-  nomic power groups in association with the large international companies, and the system of State monop-  oly of communication, in which the State is the sole owner of the communication media.
(14. 12) We have described the revolutionary step that has been taken in Peru - a step which we have no  wish whatever to persuade other countries to take - the transferral of ownership of the communication  media to the people at large. Without going so far as to make such a proposal, since each country should  decide upon its own communication policy, we should be glad if at least the idea of "control by society over  communication media", as a means of achieving éffective democratization, were included. There are  various forms of such control by society, ranging from direct ownership and the direct cession of owner-  ship to the people's organizations, without any regimentation on the part of the State and without any inter-  ference from companies or private groups, to simpler forms of representation, "Control by society over  the ownership of communication media" is therefore an idea that we would propose including. Thank you  very much, Mr, President,
15, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate from Peru and I now give the floor to the delegate from China.
16,1 M, YEH CHENG-PA (République populaire de Chine). - (Déclaration faite en chinois, Ver-  sion française établie d'après l'interprétation, )  Monsieur le Président, la délégation chfnolse voudrait faire quelques remarques sur le projet  de résolution relatif aux conclusions du débat de politique générale rédigé par le Comité de rédac-  tion, De l'avis de notre délégation, certains paragraphes de ce document reflètent des demandes  légitimes formutées par les nombreux pays en voie de développement, Il y est fait mention par  exemple de principes importants tels que la nécessité pour tous les pays, grands ou petits, de  traiter sur un pied d'égalité. L'assistance internationale doit respecter la souverafîneté des pays  bénéficiaires et s'adapter aux réalités et aux besoins locaux. On a souligné en outre qu'il importe  pour l'Unesco de contribuer dûment à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre économique international,  Le document envisage le développement de certains services assurés par l'Unesco ea vue dè sub-  venir aux besoîns des pays en vole de développement.
16.2 Malgré tout cela, nous ne pouvons manquer de signaler, à notre grand regret, que, s'agis-  sant des questions clés que sont les principes et les objectifs de l'Organisation, le document, loin  de refléter le courant principal qui découle du débat de politique générale, avance des thèses  erronées et comporte même des allégations trompeuses propagées par une certaine superpufssance,  allégations qui ont fait faillite il y a longtemps. C'est ce que la délégation chinoise ne peut en aucun  cag approuver, Le paragraphe 3 de la première rartie - "Les principes et les objectifs' - com-  porte des assertions foncièrement fausses. Ce paragraphe mentionne une certainé évolution vers  une atténuation des tensions et "le caractère irréversible qu'on se propose de donner au processus  de détente dans le monde entier”, C'est là reprendre presque textuellement le verbiage éculé d'une  certaine superpuissance, Le chef de la délégation chinoise a déjà réfuté dans l'intervention qu'il a  prononcée au cours du débat de politique générale l'utilisation de cé remède de charlatan que col-  porte inlaseablement de porte en porte cette superpulssance qui se prétend "socialiste", D'autres  chefs de délégation l'ont également réfutée à l'aide des faits. Les peuples du monde veulent la paix;  {1s veulnt la détente. Les nombréux Etats membres de l'Unesco souhaitent que l'Organisation
598   contribue de façon positive à la paix mondiale, C'est tout à fait compréhensible ; mais la réalité  de l'heure, c'est que les superpuissances multiplient les agressions, les interventions, les main-  mises, les entreprises de subversion et les spoliations; Les diverses contradictions fondamen-  tales du monde, notamment celle qui oppose les deux superpuigsances aux peuples des différents  pays et celles qui opposent ces deux superpuissancés l'une à l'autre vont toutes en s'exacerbant,  Le monde n'est pas du tout paisible, La ""détente'' préchée par les superputssances n'est rien  d'autre qu'un écran de fumée dont eller se servent pour couvrir leur rivalité en vue de conquérir  l'hégémonie mondiale, pour masquer leur volonté d'agression et d'expansion, Les termes de ce  paragraphe ne sont pas conformes aux réalités de la ‘situation internationale ; ils ne reflètent pas  non plus avec exactitude le courant principal du débat de politique générale, Cette assertion erro-  née figure également en d'autres endroits du document, que je veux pas énumérer léi un à un.
16,3 Dans cette même partie I, les paragraphes 15 et 16 ont trait à la palx et au désarmement et  précontsent le dégarmement de tous les pays. La encore, il s'agit de pacotille que les superpuis-  sances,’ notamment celle qui se prétend "'soclaliste', cherchent à colporter, Comme tout le monde  le saît, les superpuiseances se livrent à une expansion effrénée de leurs armements et à des pré-  paratife de guerre’; la course aux armements qu'elles se livrent se fait de plus en plus intense et  acharnée et met sérieusement en dangér la paix mondiale et la sécurité de tous les pays, Face à  une telle situation, les moyens et petits pays, qui sont nombreux, doivent ceuvrer en vue de ren-  forcer leur indispensable potentiel de défense indépendant au lieu de relAcher leur vigilance,  "Tous les pays devralent poursuivre leurs efforts en vue du désarmement" ; mais comment ?  Allez-vous demander A tous les pays soumis à la menace des superpuissances de désarmer et de  ge mettre à la merci de ces superpuissances ? Les armes ne savent pas faire la guerre toutes  seules, ce qui importe c'est de savoir en possession de qui elles se trouvent et quelle politique  elles servent, Si elles sont entre les mains de ceux qui pratiquent une politique impérialiste, elles  constituent des Instrum ints servant à opprimer les peuples et à mener des guerres d'agression,  Si elles sont entre les mains de pays victimes de l'agression et de l'opprèssion qui-les utilisent  pour se défendre, elles constituent une force en faveur du maintien de la paix, Maintenant que la  course aux armements entre les deux superpuissances se fäit plus acharnée et plus flagrante, il  est tout à fait compréhensible qu'on s'intéresse au désarmement ; mais c'est en premier lieu aux  superpulssances de pratiquer le désarmement ; fl ne faut pas demander à tous les pays sans dis-  tinction aucrne de mettre en pratique le désarmement, sinon on ne fait que cautionner le désarme-  ment factice des superpuissances et l'expansion réelle de leur armement et nuire à la lutte des  peuples contre l'impérialisme, le colonialisme et l'hégémonisme.
16.4 J'en viens maintenant au paragraphe 60, On y mentionne spécialement les résultats obtenus  par la Conférence sur la sécurité et la coopération en Europe, À notre avis, la soi-disant Confé -  rence sur la sécurité européenne est en réalité un leurre sous le couvert duquel les deux super-  puissances se disputent l'Europe, Son déroulement a clairement attesté à plus d'une reprise que  la Conférence sur la sécurité européenne met au fond l'Europe en danger. La superpulssance qui  se prétend socialiste porte aux nues cette conférence pour créer une impression illusoire de sé-  curité et masquer son ambition de rivaliser avec une autre superpulssance, Or, tous ceux qui  sont ici présents ne sauraient perdre de vue que c'est justement cette superpuissance qui a expé-  dié ses troupes, son artillerie et ses tanks sur le territoire d'un de ses alliés européens pour  l’occuper lllégalement, De quelle sorte de sécurité européenne s'agit-il ? L'Europe est le point  clé stratégique de la rivalité qui oppose les deux superpulssances ; c'est la réglon où sont station-  nés les effectifs les plus Importants des troupes que ces deux superpuissances mafntiennent à  l'étranger. Cela étant, prétendre que la Conférence sur la sécurité européenne aurait obtenu des  résultats n'est absolument pas conforme à la réalité actuelle en Europe.
16.5 Compté'tenu de ce qui précèdé, la délégrtion chinoise propose un certain nombre d'amende-  ments au projet dé résolution annexé au document 18 C/119, Elle propose en premier lieu de sap-  primer le paragraphe 3 de la Partie I {intitulée “Les principes et les objectifs' et de le remplacer  par ce qui euit : "Les modifications positives et Importantes qui se sont produites dans les affaires  internationales, notamment les nouveaux progrès réalisés dans la lutte des peuples des pays du  Tiers Monde contre l'irpérialisme, le colonfalisme et l'hégémonisme et pour la conquête et la  sauvegarde de l'indépendance nationala, créent dés conditions toujours plus nombreuses favorables  aux activités de l'Unesco. 11 importe que l'Unesco, dans les domaines de sa compétence, contri-  bue pour la part qui lui revient à soutenir la juste lutte de ces pays et peuples et à alder à la con-  solidation et à l'élargisçement de leur victoire",
16.6 Deuxièmement, la délégation chinoise propose de supprimer les paragraphes 15 et 16 et de  les remplacer par le paragraphe suivant : “Les superpulssances se livrent avec frénésie à l'expan-  sion des armements et à la préparation à la guerre, et leur rivalité à travers le globe se fait  acharnée. L'Uneséo doit mobiliser l'opinion publique mondiale péur mettre à nu la nature des su-  perpuissances qui, du bout des lèvres, font chaque jour grand tapage autour du désarmement et -  ne cessent d'entreprendre l'expansion des armements et la préparation à la guerre, Il faut obliger  les superpuissances à mettre en oeuvre un désarmement authentique et non un ‘désarmement factice  tendant à tromper les gens.
16.7 Je passe maintenant au troisième amendement. Dans la section intitulée "Droits de l'homme  et paix" (paragraphes 46 à 50), nous proposons de supprimer les trois dernières lignes du para-  graphe 46 - après "coopération internationale! - et de les reraplacer par le texte suivant : “en  accordant une attention particulière au soutien à la lutte de tous les peuples contre 1'impérialisme,  le colonialisme, l'hégémonisme, le racisme et l'apartheid, "
16,8 Quatrièmement, dans la partie Il B {nt{tulée "Modalités d'action", au paragraphe 60, nous  proposons de supprimer, À la sixième ligne du texte, le membre de phrase suivant : "et compte  tenu des résultats obtenus par la Conférence sur la sécurité et la coopération en Europe, .. ‘'.
16,9 Monsieur le Président, voici les propositions d'amendement que la délégation chinoise pré-  sente au projet de résolution soumis À l'examen de la Conférence générale. Sur certains autres  points du projet de résolution, la délégation chinoise tient également à faire connaître des conei-  dérations et des positions qui lui sont propres, et que nous pourrons exposer en temps utile au  cours de la discussion, Merci, Monsieur le Président,
17.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of China,
17.2 Before giving the floor to other speakers I would like to make a proposal to give the discus-  sion a more orderly character and to give greater help to the Secretariat, I propose that I should  ask for general comments on the report as a whole first, then invite apecific suggestions on each  particular part as follows: first, on the introduétory statement; second, on Part I which deals  with principles and objectives; third, on Part II, which deals with ways and means, namely the  implementation section; and lastly, on Part III regarding Unesco and the United Nations system,
17.3 If there is no opposition to that approach, which I know the Secretariat would appreciate,  I shall take it that you agree to proceed in that fashion,
17.4 1 call for general comments on the report as a whole, The first speaker is the delegate of  Austria,
18, M. GROESEL (Autriche). -  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais tout d'abord féliciter le groupe de travail pour la façon  dont il a mené à bien la tâche aussi utile que difficile qui lui incombaît. Je souhaiterais présenter  un tout petit amendement concernant le paragraphe 19 de l'annexe au document 18 C/119 ; il s'agit  d'une proposition fait: par des ministres de la Suisse et de l'Autriche,
19,1 The PRESIDENT:
1 should be grateful if we could have the specific suggestions when we are discussing the  individual parts. What I would like now is to have general comments with regard to the report  as a whole, We will then take each part separately and I shall come back to every individual  who has suggestions on each part,
19,2 If this is acceptable we shall now deal with general comments on the report as a whole, I  call on the delegate of France.
20.1 M. BRUNSVICK (France), - ;  Monsieur le Président, la proposition qui nous est soumise dans le document 18 C/119 nous  paraît le fruit d'un heureux travail. La résolution de politique générale établit une liaison entre  la problématique générale du monde actuel et les programmes en cours de l'Organisation et a pour  objet de les infléchir de la manière la plus souhaitable ; ce n'est pas le moindre mérite, à notre  avis, de ce document que d'avoir réussi à le faire en des termes souvent heureux,
20.2 Ce qui nous a également frappés, c'est la concordance des préoccupations qui ont animé les  Interventions relatives au programme de l'Organisation, telles qu'elles sont reflétées ici et le  travail qui s'est accompli dans le cadre de la Commission V en ce qui concerne l'établissement de  directives en vue d'un plan à moyen terme, On aurait pu craindre en effet - et de nombreuses délé-  gations, dont la nôtre, avaient craint - qu'il put y avoir un hiatus, une sorte de fossé, Or, nous ne  constatons rien de tel ; dans des éclairages différents, à des niveaux différents, nous trouvons des  concordances dont nous n'avons qu'à nous louer,
20,3 À ce propos, j'appuie la suggestion de l'honorable représentant de la Jamaïque, car il serait  dommage de présenter les choses d'une façon équivoque. Je lui demande toutefois s'il n'accepte-  rait pas que le paragraphe 2 du dispositif soit rédigé comme suit : "Invite le Conseil exécutif et le  Directeur général, dans la préparation du Projet de programme et de budget pour 1977-1978 (docu-  ment 19 C/5), et le cas échéant, dans celle du Plan à moyen terme, à tenir compte de ces mêmes  conclusions;'. Cela établirait peut-être entre les deux documents un lien qui me paraît très sou-  haftable,
20,4 Sur ce point, Monsieur le Président, je serais heureux d'avoir l'avis du Président de la Com-  mission V, Merci, Monsieur le Président.
21. The PRESIDENT: :  I thank the delegate of France and I call on the delegate of Venezuela for general comment,
(22.1). Mr, DE SOLA (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish): ;  My delegation shares the view of other speakers who preceded me that the Drafting Committee has  done an admirable job in attempting to include in the document that has been submitted to us all the points  of view expressed in the general debate, Some remarks might be made about the drafting, but to save  time - as there 18 80 much to be discussed in these plenary meetings - we shall comment on only one  point, which we consider fundamental, and which will naturally affect the wording of paragraph 24 of the  docurhent in question, to which the distinguished delegate of Peru has also referred, ,
(22,2) First, we wish to support the idea expressed by Peru that no one development model should be  recommended, nor should it be stated that the specific object of Unesco's efforts is to bridge the gap be-  tween the developed and the developing countries,
(22. 3) Our fundamental comment, however, concerns the end of paragraph 24, which reads as follows:  "Education {e still the major factor - cultural, économie and social - in the development process which  is designed to bridge the gap belween the developing and the developed countries", We do not consider  that education is a cultural, economic and social factor; we think that it is a factor which contributes to  the cultural, economic and social development of peoples. The wording should be amended accordingly,  The reason we consider this so important is that one of the major problems which the developing countries  are facing - for at one particular time we may have greater financial or economic resources than atother  times - is the lack of technology, the lack of education, which would enable us to make the fullest endmoat  appropriate use of thé means of development available to us at a particular time,
(22.4) We consider, therefore, that educational development - and consequently culfural, economic and  soclal devélopment - are fundamental requiréments for our people; however, we regard education as a  purely cultural factor, not as an economic and social one, We propose, therefore, that paragraph 24  should begin as follows: "Education is a fundamental factor in the cultural, economie and social develop-  ment of peoples, Consequently, it is in the field of education that Unesco's rôle as shaper of the future  should appear most clearly’, This would be followed by the existing sentence: "By providing fntellectüal  leadership and appropriate advice adapted to the needs and conditions of Member States, Unesco should  contribute to the emergence of educational systems directed towards the twofold aim of individual fulfil-  ment and national development’,
(22,5) This {&'a concrete propésal made by the delegation of Venezuela with à view to amending péra-  graph 24, Thank you very much, Mr. President, Co
23, The PRESIDENT: : .  I thank the delegate of Venezuela and 1 call upon the delegate of the United Kingdom,
24,1 Mr, MARTIN (United Kingdom}:  Thank you, Mr. President, The way in which you have suggested that we should conduct our  discussions today enables me to be very brief at this moment, But I would like to take the oppor-  tunity of congratulating the Drafting Committee that has produced document 18 C/119, and, in
23 particular, its Chairman, Dr, Hela, I think that this is yet further proof of how much those of  us who will be serving on the Executive Board in the next four years will miss the wisdom and  guidance of Dr, Hela,
24, 2 ‘This document does seem, to my delegation, to be a particularly well-balanced and well-  written document, which does not always inevitably happen with documents that emerge from  Unesco, It has a freshneas and a compactness which I think most helpful and ugeful, We parti-  cularly'welcome the emphasis which has been placed on the rôle of Unesco in the developmient  process and those paragraphs which describe the nature of that rôle, I will not go into more  detail now,
24,3 Mr, President, we really do not quarrel with the great part of the report, Our main criti-  cism, and we will make this when we come to the appropriate sector, concerns Unesco and the  United Nations Development Programme, We are Inclined to think that paragraph 69 has got:  things the wrong way round and, moreover, goes into detail which is not particularly appropriate  in the document, But having said that, Mr, President, and leaving it to my colleagues who will  pursue the matter in more detail, let me say once again how valuable we think this particular  piece of work has been and how much we welcome it, Thank you, Mr, President,
25, The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the delegate of the United Kingdom and I call upon the delegate of Afghanistan,
26,1 Mr, ETEMADI (Afghanistan):  Thank you, Mr. President, My delegation is aware that to draw up a conclusion to the  general policy debate Is not an easy matter, It has always been a difficult task in the past. But  the Drafting Committee under the Chairmanship of Dr, Ilmo Hela of Finland has done an outstand-  ing job, for which my delegation would like to express to him and to the members of the Drafting  Committee, our tribute and thanks, My delegation as a whole welcomes this document; we find  it well-balanced and we particularly welcome the fact that it {8 based on the introduction of the  Chairman of the Executive Board, the statements of the Director-General, his reports on the  activity of the Organization, his written introduction to document 18 C/5, the report of the  Executive Board, the comments of the organizations of the United Nations system, and the  amendments proposed by the Member States, I think it is very wise that for the time being we  should not take into consideration document 18 C/4, It is, of course, an important document, but  for the moment it is only a table of objectives,
26.2 With your permission, Mr, President, I will briefly deal first of all with principles and  objectives, In my judgement and that of my delegation, these objectives are balanced. In  paragraph 4 of the draft resolution, however, comes the sentence ",., the defence and promotion  of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the struggle against colonialism, neo-colonialism,  militariem, racialism,,." and so on. Iam not sure, Mr, President, about the use of the word  "militarism", If we take the reality of the world of today, there are good militaries and thereare  bad militaries. I would like to propose that we delete this word "militarism",
26,3 My delegation further welcomes the emphasis which has been rightly put on the cultural  dimension of development. In paragraphs 6 and 8, the importance &nd the rôle of culture in  development have been rightly emphasized, But I hope that future General Conferences, when  we talk about the rôle of culture, will give some more thought to the financial aspects; unfortu-  nately during the present session of the General Conference we have decreased, even cut, some  funds allocated to culture.
26,4 On ways and means the draft is very clear; it deals with the education sector, with natural  sciences, soclal sciences, communication and with inter-sectoral programmes such as population  and human rights; and it also deals with multinational co-operation, international standards,  methods of action, and so on, In the third section, it deals with the rôle of Unesco in the United  Nations system, Mr, President, very briefly, my delegation would like to support the document  under consideration, We think that it is balanced and that it reflects the general policy debate,  Thank you, Mr, President,
27, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Afghanistan and I now call on the delegate of Yugoslavia,
28,1 Mr, LUKOVAC (Yugoslavia):  Thank you Mr, President, Our delegation would also like to dongratulate thé drafting group  on this important document and the Chairman, Dr. Ilmo Hela, for ite excellent presentation. The  Yugoslav delegation is of the opinion that the proposed resolution on the general policy debate sub-  mitted in document 18 C/119 reflects in general the approach expressed in the statements of the  chiefs of delegations at this General Conference, Some of the most important problems which  were raised in the debate are stressed heré, and on the whole the draft resolution expresses the  level of consensus reached on most of the subjects.
28,2 We believe, however, that the energetic appeal and request of a great number of chiefs of  delegations, among them our own delegation, that Unesco study and evaluate the full extent of the  situation and processes of development throughout the world, which offers a much more signifi-
602   cant opportunity for improvement through precise and efficient programmes, is not sufficiently 23  and satisfactorily reflected in the draft resolution. We do not think, Mr, Président, that the  principles and intentions adopted at the sixth special session of thé General Assembly of the  United Nations, which have been generally considered as historical, are fully réflected in this  document. The last two paragraphs, which relate to Unesco's co-operation with the United  Nations system, do not reflect those decisions either in content or in place or form, Many of the  delegations raised the question of the necessity for Unesco to provide much more support to  current efforts for co-operation among member countries, and in particular among developing  countries, and this is not stated in this draft resolution,
28,3 We would also like tô point out that the present stage in the process of decolonization and  the necessity for a larger contribution to the development of newly-liberated countries, as well  as liberation movements, must be underlined in this document also, We are prepared,  Mr. President, to contribute with precise and written comments during the course of discussion  of the draft resolution, Thank you, Mr, Presidént,
29, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Yugoslavia, and I call on the delegate of Canada,
30.1 M. LEBLANC (Canada). -  Merci, Monsieur le Président, Je veux simplement dire deux mots, Tout d'abord, je tiens à  féliciter le Comité de rédaction pour l'excellent projet qu'il nous a soumis ; comme plusieurs de  mes prédécesseurs, je crois qu'il a réussi à extraire la substance la plus importante du débat de  politique générale.
30.2 En deuxième lieu, ma ‘délégation est disposée à procéder, dès que vous le jugerez à propos,  à un examen particulier de ce document, comme vous l'avez vous-même suggéré, Monsieur le  Président.
30.3 Enfin, puisque la délégation française a souhaité connaître l‘avis du Président de la Commis-  sion V, je dirai, Monsieur le Président, non seulement que je suis favorable à la suppression des  deux paragraphes cités par le distingué délégué de la Jamafîque, mais qu'il me paraftrait utile de  modifier le libellé du paragraphe 2 du dispositif selon la proposition du représentant de la France.  Je vous rémercie, Monsieur le Président,
31. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Canada and I call upon the delegate of Senegal,
32,1 M, MADÉMBASY (Sénégal). -  Monsieur le Président, la délégation du Sénégal s'associe aux félicitations qui ont été adres-  sées au Comité de rédaction qui nous a présenté un document fort bien fait, dans une matière extrê-  mement difficile et complexe, puisqu'il s'agissait'de résumer de manière aussi exhaustive que pos-  sible tous les débats qui se sont instaurés en cette enceinte. Ce texte me paraft admirablement  bien fait, dans la mesure où il s'est concentré sur les idées forces qui se sont dégagées au cours  des débats.
32,2 La délégation sénégalaise pense néanmoins que l'une de ces Îdées forces, sur laquelle ont  insisté beaucoup de délégations et, si je ne me trompe, M, le Directeur général lui-même, est  celle de la contribution que pourrait apporter l'Unesco à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre écono-  mique international, A mon avis, elle devrait figurer dans la partie I "Les principes et les objec-  tifs de l'Unesco", alors qu'elle a été reléguée pratiquement à la fin du rapport, au paragraphe 70,
32,3 La délégation sénégalaise suggère donc que cette référence à l'instauration d'un nouvel ordre  économique international fondé sur la justice figure parmi les principes et les objectifs assignés à  l'Unesco. Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
33, The PRESIDENT : ;(  I thank the delegate of Senegal and I call upon the delegate of Czechoslovakia,
34.1 M. GREGUS (Tchécoslovaquie). - …  Monsieur le Président, permettez-mol de féliciter au nom de la Tchécoslovaquie le Comité  de rédaction chargé de rédiger les conclusions du débat de politique générale. Mis à part quelques  points de détail, le rapport élaboré par ce Comité nous paraît en effet satisfaisant.
34.2 Les paragraphes 3, 15, 16, 46 de ce rapport sont, à notre avis, fondamentaux, comme est  fondamentate la coopération internationale et comme est fondamentale, pour nous autres Tchéco-  slovaques, la éoopération qui doit, dans tous les domalhes, s'exercer entre les pays socialistes  pour le développement du socialisme. ‘
34,3 L'activité que déploient dans certaines régions du monde les forces fascistes et néo-fagcistes  et la persistance de certains foyers de guerre exigent que tous les pays pacifiques redoublent  d'effort pour protéger l'humanité, pôur assurer la paix et pour favoriser le désarmement. Malheu-  reusement, 11 y a encore dans le monde des forces qui ne désirent pas la palx ; et c'est pourquoi  l'Unesco et les Etats membres doivent intensifier leur action en faveur de l'éducation pour la com-
23 préhension internationale et la paix, Toutes les institutions du système des Nations Unies et toutes  les organisations non gouvernementales devront tenir le plus grand compte des voeux-concernant  la paix et la coopération internationale qui auront été exprimés à lu présente session de la Confé -  rence générale, C'est pourquoi, je suis défavorable, Monsieur le Président, auk propositions ten-  dant à supprimer les paragraphes 3, 15, 16 du rapport et à la modification de ses paragraphes 46  et 60, Merci, Monsieur le Président.
35, The PRESIDENT: |  I thank the delegate of Czechoslovakia, I call upon the delegate of the Soviet Union.
36.1 Mpod. C.JI. THXBHHCKHH (Cons Coserckux COUHanHCTHUECKHX Pecny6nauk):  Bnaropapo sac, rocnoauH Ilpeacenatens. 5 Gepy CNOBO ANA Toro, YIOÔH BHCKE3aTh PAA OGmMHX  coobpaxeHHH no NpoekTy pesonbuHH, KOTOPHI HAM COTOAHA MPOACTOHT NPHHATE,
36.2 5 AONXEH NPHCOGAHHHTBCH KO BCOM TOM AOH0TATAM, KOTOPHE orMeyamr, yro Pa6oyan rpynna  nponenana Gonbmy D NOSUTHBHYD paÔOTy H YTO CHEAYET ©6 NO3APABHTL C paspañorkoñ raxoro o6cTos-  TONbHOrO AOKYMEHTA, KOTOPSIÉ 6511 eAHHOrnacHO NPHHAT Ha 3TOÏ KOMHCCHH.
36.3 51 6x1 xoTen CKAIATE HECKONbKO COR B CBA3H C BHICTYNAUHHEM NpeACTABHTENN Kurafickof Ha-  poaHoñ Pecny6nuxH. IosnuxH npeacruputeneñ KHP no OCHOBHEIM BONpOCAM COBPeMEHHOCTH, NO  oueHxe MOXAYHapoAHOR O6CTaHOBKH AOCTATOYHO XOPOIO M3BECTHL BCOM, OHH BHCKA3HBANHCE H B  Opratinsauxux O6reanHeHHsXx Hauu#t H '3gecs, B WHECKO. Ilpeac rasxrenn KHP ynopHo BhCTYNANT  MPOTHB paspAAKH MexXAyHapoAHOHA HanpsXeHHOCTH, H Aaxe sAecb, B OHECKO, B BrHCTYNNEHHK NPOA-  crapurtens KHP Mel CALMANK npHass ray6xe PpLITb NPOTHBOBO3AYmHIe y6exHma H 3anacaTs 3epHO,  TOTOBSHCB K BOñHe. To, ‘T0 npeAcrapurens KHP He ycTpaHBaer paspsAKa HanpAXeHHOCTH, AOCTATOY-  HO XOpOMO HIBECTHO BC@M, HO B TO Xe caMoe BPOMA H3BECTHO H Apyroe, à HMEHHO - UTO HAPOAbI MH-  pa ynopHo H nocneaopaTenbHo GOPNTCA 3a paspsHAKy MeXAYHAponHoH'HanpaxeHHocTH. IMocxoñbxy  AaHHas pésonDuHA OTPAXaeT XOA NMPeHHH, B KOTOPsIX NPHHANK yuacTHe 6onee COTHH raap Aenerauxñ  TOCYAAPpCTB, MNpeactaBleHHsx B JOHECKO, oueHb BaxHO, yTo6hl B pe30n0OUHH Hamna o6rexTHBHOE  oTpaxeHHe npeobnaaa oman TEHAGHUHA K MHpy, a HMEHHO - TeHAeHUHA AanbHelimeR pa3pAAKH Hanpsa-  XEHHOCTH, TOHAEGHUHA K TOMY, YTOÔ»! CAGHATL 3TY Pa3pAAKY, 3TOT NPOLIOCC Pa3pAAKH HeoGpaTHMBIM,  C TeM YUTOÔH BCE CTPAHH MOTH COCPGAOTOYHBATb CBOH OCHOBHEIE YCHNHA Ha HYXAAaX padbHTHA, YTO~
611 OHM HO TPATH/IH HENPOHIBOAHTENLHO KONMOCCANbHEE ACHOXHHE H NNACKHO CPEACTEA Ha FOHKY BO-  opyxeHHR. DTOT MOTHB, 3ByyaBmHUA B BLHICTYyNNeHHAX Gonee ueM cra raas Aonerauxñ, Ha Haw B3rasa,  Hamen AONXHOE OTPAXEHHE B NPOeKTe pesonDLHH, KOTOPHÉ Mb ceroaHs 3AECb ofcyxnaem.,
36.4 Buaumo, y npeacrabHreneñ KHP ceos TOUKA 3peHHs HA STOT CUET, H pasyGexAaTb HX JAECb  CTOAb xe GECNONEIHO, kak, MO cnosaM KHTAÂCKOA NOCNOBHUB, "Hrpath Ha NOTHe NAPEA KOpPOBOR,  HAH Ne3Th Ha AepeBo, uTOGH TAM MONBTATLCA nofiMate puby". Mosromy 4 He GyAy 3X9Cb CErOAHA  AOMONHKYENBHO APrYMOHTHPOBATb TO, YTO BCeM H 683 TOro ACHO: ANA Hamefi OpraHH3auuk, neproñ  YCTaBHOÏ UeNbBD xortopoft Asse TCA NOFApXaHKe HAOH MHpa B YMAX yenoseyectsa, He MOryt ÔbITE  npHeMneM:l Te NpeANOXeHHA, KOTOpe 3AeCb GuaH BrHCcKalaHbl npeAcrasurenem KHP,
36.5 Moaromy a xoTen 651 noaAepxarts. BCE NYHKTH PESONDUUH, KèK OHH Chopuynuposaner Peaakun~  OHHOR KOMHCCHER. Yo xacaercA MNONMYKH KHTaAÂCKOTO Aeñeré'Ta BHOBb H BHOBb BTAHYTb COBOTCKH  Cons B nonemuky no sonpocaM MHpa H 6e30NMACHOCTH, À CYHTAID HGAOCTOHHBM HCNONb3OBAHHE TPH-  GyHe! HameH OpraxnW3auxH ANA TOro, UTOÔB 3Aech BCTYNarh B MONEMHKY MO 3THM BONpocaM. Te,kro  TPONOBEAYOT TEOPHD CBOPpxXAOpPXABHOCTH, TEOPHD HA/THYHA B MHpe ABYX ChepxAepxaB, COIHaTeNLHO  NHTADTCH BBeCTH B 3abnyxaeHHe MHPpOBO6 OÔTMECTBOHHOE MHEHHE H HAPOA CBOGÀ CTpaHbI.
36.6 Mosromy ypaxaemsH r-x Ilpeacesarens s 61 xOTeNn B 3aKNDYEHK® BHÔBb MOBTOPHTL, YTO HA-  ma sañaya COrOAHA 3AKADYÈ@TCH B TOM, 4To6L HAHÔONC6 OÔTEKTHBHO OTPA3HTL Te MEICAH H HACH,  KOTOpH® SBYVANH C TpHÔYHE HAMEÂ OpraHH3aljHH B XOR6 AHCKYCCHH NO BONpocaM OÔMCR NOAKTHKH H  B 3TOM OTHOI@HHH, MHE KAXÉTCA, HTO MNPÉANATAGMHE HAM MNPOEKTH pe SONDLUIHH 3ACNYXHEANT CAMOÀ  BHCOKOR ouneHkn. Brnaronapp Bac, rocnoanx Ilpeacenarens.
(36.1) Mr, TIKHVINSKY (Unfonof Soviet Socialist Republics) (Translation from the Russian):  Thank you, Mr. President, I am taking the floor to make a number of general observations about the  draft resolution we have to adopt today.
(36.2) I must join with all those delegates who have said that the Drafting Committee has done a major  and constructive job of work end should be congratulated on having formulated such a circumstantial docu-  ment which yet won the unanimous approval of all its members,
(36,3) I should like to say a few words concerning the statement made by the representative of the  Chinese People's Republic. The views of the representatives of the Chinese People's Republic on the  major problerns of our times and their evaluation of the international situation are quite well known to  everyone as they havé been volced at the United Nations and here at Unesco, The representatives of the  Chinese People's Republic persistently speak against ths lessening of internättonal tenaton and evenhere,  at Unesco, we have heard a call made in a statement by a representative of the Chinese People's Republic  to dig still deeper air-raid shelters and to store grain in readiness for war. Everybody knows quite well  that a relaxation of tension does not suit the representative of the Chinese People's Republic but at the ~  same time everybody is aware that the nations of the world are ateadfastiy and consistently striving for a  reduction {n international tension. Since this resolution reflects the tenor of the debate In which more than  a hundred heads of delegation from States represented at Unesco have taken part, it fe very important that  the resolution should reflect in an objective way the predominant trend towards peace which is, in fact, a  trend towards the further relaxation of tension, a trend towards making this relaxation or this process of
604   relaxation irreversible so that all countries can concentrate their main efforts on the needs of development  and so that they do not waste huge aums of money and human resources unproductivelÿ on the arms race,  We feel that this theme, re-echoed in the statements of more than a hundred heads of delegation, has found  ite due expression in the draft resolution which we are discussing here today,
(36,4) Obviously the representatives of the Chinese People's Republic have their own point of view on  this matter and to try and change their ideas here is as pointless as, in the words of the Chinese proverb,  "playing a lute to a cow or climbing a trée to try and catch a fish", I shall therefore rot say any more  today about what, in any case, is clear to everyone, namely that the proposals which have been put for-  ward here by the representative of the Chinese People's Republic cannot be acceptable to our Organization  whose primary aim, as enjoined by {te Constitution, {a to promote Ideas of peace fn the minds of men,
(36.5) I should therefore tke to support all the paragraphs of the resolution 48 formülated by the Drafting  Committée, With regard to the attempt by the Chinese delegation again and again to draw the Soviet Union  into a dispute over matters of peace and security, I consider it unworthy to use tae tribune of our Organi-  zation to launch Into an argument here ori these matters, Those who preach the theory of super power  status end the {dea that there are two super powers in the world are deliberately trying to lead world pub-  ic opinion and the people of their own country aetray.
(36, 8) Mr, President, I should therefore, in conclusion, like to repeat once more that our tagk today is  to express in the most objective way possible those thoughts and {deas which have gone forth from the tri-  bune of our Organization during the general policy debate, and fn this connexion I feel that the draft resolu-  tions submitted to us deserve the very higheat consideration, Thank you, Mr. President,
37, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of the Soviet Union, I give the floor to the delegate of China,
38.1 M, YEH CHENG -PA (République populaire de Chine), - (Déclaration faite en chinois. Version  française établie d'après l'interprétation. )  Monsieur le Président, tout à l'heure, la délégation chinoise n'a fait qu'exposer des faits indé-  niables pour montrer que la rivalité entre les superpulssances est à l'origine même de l'absence  de tranquillité dans ce monde, Cela a suffi à mettre la délégation soviétique en colère, ce qui  prouve que nous l'avons piquée au vif. Quand la supérpulssance qu'est l'URSS calomnie la Chine  en l'accusant de faire obstacle à la détente, elle cherche vraiment à mettre son propre chapeau  sur la tête d'autrui. Quel est le pays qui fait parade de ses forces armées pour mener à travers  le monde des agressions, subversions ou interventions dirigées contre les autres ? Quel est ce  pays qui, en rivalité avec un autre - avec une autre superpulssance - prétend imposer sa supré-  matie en tous les points du monde ?
38.2 Je m'adresse donc aux autorités soviétiques pour leur poser les questions suivantes : Pour-  quoi ne faites-vous pas certaines choses pratiques ? Pourquol, par exemple, ne retirez-vous pas  les forces armées que vous avez envoyées sur le territoire de vos alliés ? Pourquoi ne faites-vous  pas démanteler toutes les bases militaires que vous avez installées à l'étranger ? Pourquoi vous  rèfusez-vous à restituer au Japon les quatre fles du Japon ? Pourquoi ne faites-vous pas les choses  que vous dites avôlr la volonté de faire ? Votre masque he peut tromper personne et vous feriez  mieux de le jeter. C'est le bonnet de la superpuiesance qui vous convient ; c'est lui qui symbolise  votre façon d'agir et vous ne gagnerez rien à vouloir le nier,
38.3 Pourquoi vous refusez-vous à détruire toutes les armes nucléaires dont vous disposez ?  Pourquoi vous installez-vous de nouvelles bases militaires à l'étranger ?
38,4 Si vous êtes capable de répondre à ces questions, nous sommes prêts à vous écouter, Si  vous en êtes incapable, nous attendrons pour vous écouter une autre occasion, Merci, Monsieur  le Président,
39, The PRESIDENT: ;  I thank the délégaté of China, We will now move on to torisidèr separate parts of the report,  The first consists of introductory statements, We have had some suggestions, particularly from  the delegate of Jamaica. Are there any other suggestions with regard to the introduction section?  The Director-General wishes to speak,
40,1 Le DIRECTEUR GENERAL, -  Monsieur le Président, juste un mot en ce qui concerne la fin du premier considérant. Aux  mots "ainsi que la réponse du Directeur général", je préférerats les mots "ainsi que la déclara-  tion finale du Directeur général’ ; car, s'il est vrai que j'ai répondu à des questions, il est non  moine vrai que j'ai cherché, Mesdames et Messieurs, à dresser une synthèse de vos propres  interventions beaucoup plus qu'à dialoguer avec vous.
40.2 J'appuie, d'autré part, la proposition tendant à la suppression des deux derniers tonsidé-  rants qui a été présentée par la délégation de la Jamafque et appuyée par la délégation de la  France. ,
40.3 En ce qui concerne le paragraphe 2 du dispositif, son texte pourrait, me semble-t-il, demeu-  rer inchangé.
23 41.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank you, Mr, Director-Genoral, Are there other comments on this introductory section?  We have before us the deletion of the two paragraphs proposed by the delegate 6f Jamaica and  supported by the delegates of France and Canada, Is there any opposition to this? If there is  none, then I declare the proposal adopted.
41,2 We now have a proposal to amend operative paragraph 2, I will ask the Secrotary to pre-  sent this suggested amendment,
42, Le SECRETAIRE, -  Monsieur le Président, selon la proposition de la délégation française, le texte amendé du  paragraphe 2 du dispositif se lirait comme suit : "Invite le Conseil exécutif et lé Directeur géné-  ral, dans la préparation du Projet de programme et de budget pour 1977-1978 (document 19 C/5),  et le cas échéant, dans celle du Plan à moyen terme pour 1977-1982 (document 19 C/4), à tenir  compte de ces mêmes conclusions, Merci, Monsieur le Président,
43,1 The PRESIDENT:  You have heard the proposed amendment, Is there any opposition to it? If not, I declare  that it is approved unanimously,
43.2 We now have the whole first part of the report to be acted upon by the General Conference,  that is, the introduction as amended, Is there any opposition? I declare that this section has  been approved by the General Conference as a whole,
43.3 We now move on to Section I, entitled: "Principles and Objectives". There have been some  specific amendments proposed here, Are there other speakers who wish to propose amendments  to this section? We have the United States of America, Australia and Switzerland, Are there  others? I wil! call on the delegate of the United States of America,
44,1 Mr, WARVARIV (Unifed States of America):  Thank you, Mr, President, With reference to paragraph 5, under "I, Principles and Objec-  tives", we support the amendment proposed by the distinguished delegate of Jamaica, and I would  like, with your permission, to read the second sentence of that paragraph with my own amendment,  which coincides with the amendment of the representative of Jamaica, as follows: "Unesco should  continue undertaking special efforts on behalf of the least developed countries",
44,2 Mr, President, I have two further suggested amendments to paragraph 16 of Section I,  During the general policy debate, mention was repeatedly made of a great many regressive and  regrettable practices in various parts of the world, not only the two mentioned in this paragraph 16,  namely fascism and neo- fascism. I would like, therefore, Mr, President, to amend this para-  graph to read as follows: "Paragraph 16: The continuing existence of trouble spots and the resur-  gence of totalitarian oppression..." (in place of the words: "of fascist and neo-fascist forces"),
44.3 Secondly, at the end after the word "disarmament", we would wish to add the words "under  effective international control", Thank you, Mr. President,
45. The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the delegate of the United States of America and I call on the delegate of Australia.
46.1 Mr, PHILP (Australia):  ‘Mr, President, I wish to make one general point and a small specific one in general support  of what the delegate of the United States has just said, I want simply to point out that there is one  somewhat important and tétal neglect in the document, and in particular in this section - as indeed  in most documents of the entire Conference - a total neglect of rather more than half the people of  the world, There is much talk, much worthwhile, useful and important talk of women, and a little  of girls; there is recognition of the need for support of the poor and the oppressed, indeed of most  human beings against whom discrimination is practised; but the document virtually ignores, - as  Unesco has long ignored, the most oppressed, the most discriminated against, the most colonlal-  ized, and if I can coin a word, the most hegemonized people in the world, I mean its children.
46,2 Children are rather more than the simple objective of education, They are rather more  than the beneficiaries of science and the recipients of culture, They are, strange as it may seem  to us, real people. They are human beings in their own right, and most of the programme of  Unesco is directed in the long run, although this is not reflected in the documents, towards making  the world a better place for children, a better place in which they can grow up, & world in which  their needs will be effectively recognized and for which we should be plunning, Yet there is  practically no evidence in this document that we are in any way planning or indeed in any way  «»oking at the real needs of children, It seems to us high time that Unesco began seriously to  look at children and their needs as such, not simply as potential adults, I trust that document
19 C/5 will begin to reflect that need,
46,3 May I turn to a somewhat smaller point in paragraph 14, Along with the other problems of  the world with which Unesco is concerned is mentioned youth, We take some exception to this, It  seems to us that youth is not a problem. Youth might in fact consider the major problem of the
606   world to be its adults, - After all, it is we who have got the world into the meas it is in, not youth,  Youth seems to us to be something of which to be proud and not something to be mentioned as  synonomous, in problem terms, with drug abuse and discriminatory practices, We would pro-  pose as an amendment that the word "youth" be struck out of paragraph 14, Thank you,  Mr, President.
47, The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the delegate of Australia and I call upon the delegate of Switzerland,
48, M, HUMMEL (Suisse). -  Monsieur le Président, j'ai à faire deux petites remarques, Reportons-nous d'abord au para-  graphe 4 du rapport, Sans être aucunement militariste, je me demande si le militarisme peut  vraiment être considéré comme une forme d'agression et je me permets de suggérer, comme  d'autres l'ont fait avant moi, que l'on supprinie le mot "militarisme", J'ai d'autre part l'Impres-  sion que la seconde phrase du paragraphe 5 n'est pas très bien formulée ; je serais tout disposé à  accepter le libellé proposé par la Jamafque et les Etats-Unis d'Amérique ; à défaut, je propose-  rais pour cette seconde phrase du paragraphe 5, la rédaction suivante : ‘île font que, avec les  droits de l'homme et la paix, le développement doit demeurer, pour l'Organisation ... . (le reste  inchangé)", Merci, Monsieur le Président.
49, The PRESIDENT, -  I thank the delegate of Switzerland and I give the floor to the delegate of Senegal?
50, M, MADEMBA SY (Sénégal). -  Monsteur le Président, j'ai l'honneur de proposer à la Conférence un amendement au para-  graphe 13 du rapport, Cet amendement, qui s'inspire de l'idée que j'avais exprimée tout à l'heure  en guise d'observation générale, consisterait à remplacer la deuxième phrase dudit paragraphe  par la phrase suivante : ""Confrontée à cette situation, l'Unesco devra dans le domaine de sa com-  pétence s'efforcer de remédier à cette disparité, notamment cn contribuant à l'instauration d'un  nouvel ordre économique international fondé sur la justice, et en élaborant de nouvéaux concepts  visant à une répartition plus équitable des ressources-mondiales,'' Il s'agirait en somme d'une  part de remplacer le mot "partage"! par le mot "répartition' et d'autre part d'inclure dans le para-  graphe l'une des idées forces qui se sont dégagées du débat, à savoir qu'il convient d'attacher  beaucoup d'importance à la contribution que l'Unesco pourrait apporter à l'instauration d'un nouvel  ordre économique international fondé sur la justice, Je vous remercie, Monsieur le Président.
51, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Senegal and I call on the delegate of Peru,
(52. 1) Mr. CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish);  Mr. President, the delegation of F-ru would like to add two amendments to those that we submitted  in writing to the General Committee, The first concerns paragraph 16, which reads; "The continuing
23   existence of trouble spote and the resurgence of fascist and neo- fascist forées in various parts of the  world ,,.". We consider that this resurgence of neo-fascist forces is not a spontaneous growth, noris  it a spontaneous development, as if it were a natural phenomenon, It is a political phenomenon, one that  can be perfectly well directed and identified,
(52.2) Consequently, we propose adding, after "in varirus parts of the world", the words "as a result of  imperialism",
(52.3) For this reason we do not agree that the reference to fascist and neo-fascist forces should be  deleted and replaced by a reference to totalitarian oppression, as the delegate of the United States pro-  poses. We know who is responsible for the resurgence of fascist forces in the countries of Latin America,  We know whom they are serving: they are serving imperialism, Mr, President, and imperialism should  be denounced in paragraph 16.
(52. 4) The other change concerns paragraph 15, It is true, Mr, President, that the head of the Peruvian  revolution has proposed that rearmament should cense for ten years fn order to use the funds for the de-  velopment of éur countries, but it is also true that the rearmament of the Third World countries, their  equipment with munitions, is being promoted by the major powers,
(52.5) We have no right to say that all countries should disarm so long as the will to imperialism and  domination is abroad in the world, Consequently, we agree that this paragraph should be amended,
(52,6) With regard to paragraph 14, I agree with the delegate of Australia that we should not speak of  youth as a problem,
(52.7) I hope that the General Committee has taken note of the other amendments that we have submitted  in writing, and we suggest, Mr, President, that at soine point we should discuss the report paragraph by  paragraph, This might make for a more orderly debate,
53. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Peru and I call on the delegate of Jamaica,
54,1 Mr, WYNTER (Jamaica):  Mr. President, I should like to refer first to paragraph 3, Unfortunately, I had to be out of  the room briefly, and I am not certain whether an amendment has been made to paragraph 3. If  no amendment has been made, I should like to suggest that the words from "to give to the process  of détente'" to the end of the sentence should be deleted, The first part of the sentence includes  everything, end as the second part has led to a debate and controversy, perhaps it would be more  prudent if we did not include that last part, which adds very little to the more important part  of the sentence,
54,2 Secondly, Mr, President, with regard to paragraph 5, I should like to thank the delegations  of the United States of America and of Switzerland for reflecting in their proposed amendments  the point I raised earlier, I should like to suggest to the delegate of the United States of America  that perhaps the wording of the delegation of Switzerland might be a little more felicitous "at thie  stage, If I remember correctly, that suggestion was that the idea should be kept there,’ but  instead of saying "development must come right äiftér peace", the wording would be: *'development  must come along with human rights and peace in the Organization's priorities,..". Because the  second part of the sentence referring to special efforts, etc,, 18 also in the United States formu-  lation, I would ask the United States delegation, whether it could not perhaps adopt the suggestion  made by the Swiss delegation as meeting our wishes,
54,3 Then, Mr. President, I should like to refer to paragraph 13 and to say that the paragraph,  as amended by thé representative of Senegal, has our support,
54, 4° With regard to paragraph 14, Mr, Preeidént, I do agree with the representative of Australia  that youth in itself is not à problefn’and therefore that ite inclusion might be misinterpreted in the  context of this paragraph, But on the other hand, Mr, President, we know that thére are many  problems facing youth and that these problems are fairly common throughout the world; that is  why Unesco has been concentrating on these problems, It would therefore be a pity to leave out  any mention of youth in paragraph 14, I would therefore like to ask the representative of  Australia whether he would perhaps be prepared to consider a formulation which would include  before the word "youth" the following two words "those facing", These problems are very, very  important; there are very great problems facing young people throughout the world and we should  mention this, This was in fact mentioned by more than one speaker during the debate, If the  words "those facing" were inserted before "youth", we might be able to retain the concept with-  out making youth themselves a problem,
54,5 Finally, Mr, President, may I refer to paragraph 16 and say that I support the second  amendment moved by the United States delegation, namely that after "disarmament the words  "under effective international control" should be added, However, I would like to suggest  Mes Président; that we retain the words "fascist and neo-fascist forces because the terins  include (othlitarlan oppression, It'is really only à term, Mr, President, and as this reflects  what was said by a number of delegations and it does not detract from the coricept of tétalitarian  oppression I am in favour of leaving "fascist and neo-fascist forces", Thank you, Mr. President.
55. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Jamaica and I give the floor to the delegate of Senegal,
56, M, MADEMBA SY (Sénégal), - Co .  Monsieur le Président, ma délégation voudrait proposer un amendement qui consistéerait à  supprimer les mots "après la paix" à la troisième ligne du paragraphe 5, La délégation sénéga-  laise estime en effet que la rédaction de ce paragraphe est assez ambiguë et risque de donner  l'impression que la paix et le développement sont, sinon antinomiquee, du moins différents; Or  notre sentiment profond est que l'existence d'un développement juste et équitable pour tousles  pays du Tiers Monde est l'une des conditions de la paix. La paix constitue d'ailleurs, qu'il nous  soit permis de le rappeler, l'un des objectifs que l'Organisation a insorits dans son Acte'consti-  tutif, Nous pensons dono qu'il n'est pas nécessaire de mentionner la paix dans le paragraphe en  question, dont la deuxième phrase pourrait dès lors être rédigée comme suit : "Ils font que le  développement doit demeurer pour l'Organisation la priorité des priorités. . : (le reste inchangé) "",
57, The PRESIDENT: ‘ ;  I thank the delegate of Senegal and I give the floor to the delegate of Niger,
58, M. ABDOU MOUMOUNI (Niger), -  Monsieur le Président, je voudrais attirer l'attention de la Conférence générale sur lé para-  graphe 8, d'où ma délégation souhaiterait voir éliminer le membre de phrase suivant : '',,, étne  peuvent travailler pleinement à leur développement que si celui-ci répond à cette aspiration fonda-  mentale et à des besoins profondément ressentis. .,'"’. Je vous remercie.
59, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Niger, The delegate of Ghana has the floor.
60. Mr. SEDDOH (Ghana): -  Thank you, Mr. President, My delegation would like to draw attention to paragraph 9 of the  document before ue, We feel that the rendering of the second sentence could be improved upon,  The second sentence reads as follows: "In a spirit of international co-operation, based on equity,  aid must be aimed at helping the developing countries to use' (I emphasize the word use) "their  natural resources for. a better use of their manpower', The latter part of the sentence, "for a  better use of their manpower" appears to us to be a bit derogatory; after all, developing couniries  are doing the best they can now with the manpower available, We would like to propose that we  delete the last part of the sentence, that is "for the better use of their manpower" and simply say  that "ald must be aimed at helping the developing countries to achieve the optimum use of their  natural resources', 1 think that this covers the latter part, Thank you, Mr. President.
61, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate from Ghana, Many substantive changes have been proposed and the  Drafting Committee will, of course, have to get together to consider these, and decide how best  to present them, No action will be taken now upon Part I, But with the time remaining, I would  propose that we move on to Part II, Ways and means to attain the objectives and to increase the  effectiveness of Unesco, The Director-General had a comment he wanted to make, and he has  left it with the Secretary, I call on the Secretary of the General Conference.
62, Le SECRETAIRE, -  Monsieur le Président, le Directeur général aurait souhaité suggérer un petit amendement  au paragraphe 17, Dans la phrase qui commence par "En outre, la volonté des Etats membres  sera prise, ..", il almeralt voir remplacer les mots "sera prise" par les mots "continuera d'être  prise", De même, dans la dernière phrase du même paragraphe, il aimerait voir remplacer les  mots "II sera aussi dûment tenu compte’ par les mots "Il continuera aussi d'être dûment tenu  compte", Merci, Monsieur le Président,
63. The PRESIDENT: :  I thank the Secretary. I now call on the delegate from the Federal Republic of Germany,
64,1 Mr, PETERSEN (Federal Republic of Germany): . .. . . :  Thank you, Mr. President, I assume that we have now turned to Part II and it is under this  Part that I should like to propose a small amendment, However, since my delegation has not yet  expressed its appreciation of the work done by the Drafting Committee under the chairmanship of  Dr. Held, ‘I should like to'do so at this point. Our thanks go to him and to the delegates who  assisted him in drafting these conclusions, which, in the opinion of my delegation, are well-  balanced and which are in general acceptable,
64,2 Coming to tle amendment I want to propose, it is connected with parägraph'26 under the  section on &ducatién, Paragraph 26 seems to refer to a topic which has been widely discussed  in Commission I, the Commission on Education, and during the general debate which these .  general conclusions reflect, Many speakers, to the recollection of my delegation, referred to  the draft recommendation concerning edutatiori for international understanding, co-operation and  peace and education relating t¢ human rights and fundamental freedoms,” whose preparation Is a.  specific task for this General Conference, Our delegates, among others, have referréd to thie  task, and I think therefore that we should not restrict ourselves to-mentioning education for  peace and interiiational understanding in this paragraph but should aléo mention education relat-  ing to human righte and fundamental freedoms. With the addition of such a reference, the first ;  sentence of paragraph 26 then reads: "Greater attention should be paid to education for peace
669   and international understanding and to education relating to human rights and fundamental  freedoms", Thank you, Mr, President,
65. The PRESIDENT!
1 thank the delegate of the Federal Republic of Germany and I give the floor to the delegate  of Austria,
66. M. GROESEL (Autriche). +  Monsieur le Président, permettez-moi de “résenter un léger améndement au paragraphe 19,  qui refléterait une proposition des ministres respectifs de l'Autriche et de la Suisse, On pourrait  ajouter une courte phrase qui se lirait comme sult : ‘Etant donné l'importance de consultations des  Etats membres à cet égard, et en vue d'une préparation plus efficace de la prochaine Conférence  générale, il pourrait être utile d'organiser entre deux Conférences générales une réunion des délé-  gués permanents avec le Secrétariat." Merci, Monsieur le Président,
67, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Austria, and I give the floor to the delegate of the United States of  America,
68,1 Mr, WARVARIV (United States of America): . .  Thank you, Mr, President, First of all, I would like to support the proposal just made  by the distinguished representative of the Federal Republic of Germany, pertaining to paragraph26  namely that the words ",.. and to education relating to human rights and fundamental freedoms,"  should be added at the end of the first sentence, 1 think this will indeed be consistent with the  draft recommendation to which he was referring,
68.2 My second comment, Mr, President, pertains to paragraph 36, in the section’on social  sciences, humanities and culturé, I would like to suggest the deletion of the word "inter-  sectoral" before the word "prograihmes" in the second sentence which would then read: “In  general, the social sciences should be called upon to play a greater rôle in all of the Organiza-  tion's major programmes",
68.3 Next, Mr. President, I have a comment with respect to paragraph 43 in the section on  communication. In the first sentence of that paragraph, I would like to suggest that the word  "national" should be added after the words "of adoption of", I believe this was the intention of  the Commission which dealt with this subject matter and also the intention of speakers in the  general debate, To reiterate, my specific suggestion here, Mr, President, 18 to add the word  "national" before "code",
68.4 And lastly, Mr, President, a comment with respect to paragraph 60, In the second  sentence of that paragraph, I would like to suggest the following amendment. After the words,  "the conference of Ministers of Education of European Member States", I should like to substitute  the words "and subject to the completion of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in  Europe," for the words "and having regard to the results achieved by the Conference on Security  and Co-operation in Europe' and then to complete the sentence as follows: "to consider the  possibility of" - and here is my amendment - "of undertaking appropriate measures for improv-  ing European regional co-operation in all Unesco's fields of work", In other words, I am sug-  gesting the deletion of words: "organizing Europeen conferences responsible". The sentence  will then read: "It would therefore be advisable, in the light of Recommendation 11/19 adopted  in December 1973 in Bucharest by the Conference of Ministers of Education of European  Member States and subject to the completion of the Conferencé on Security and Co-operation  in Europe, to consider the possibility of undertaking appropriate measures for improving  European regional co-operation in all Unesco's fields of work". Thank you, Sir.
69. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of the United States of America and I call on the delegate from  Venezuela,
(70.1) Mr. DE SOLA (Venezuela) (Translation from the Spanish): [I .  The delegation of Venezuela wishes to endorse the proposal to amend paragraph 24,
(70.2) We wish to say that we have been in contact with the delegation of Peru to see if they shared our’  point of view with regard fo the new wording; we are going to read thè new pstagéaph, with a blight modi-  fication that they suggested to us, and after that the distinguished delegate of Peru may express his agree-  ment or disagreement with the final wording,
(70, 3) - In order to place greater stress on the aspect of education as a fundamental factor.in development,  paragraph 24 should read ae follows: "Education is one of the fundamenta] factors in the cultural, economic  and social development of peoples, Consequently it is in the field of education that Unesco's rôle as shaper  of the future should appear most clearly. By providing intellectual leadership and appropriate advice  adapted to the needs and conditions of Member States, Unesco should contribute to the emergence of edu-  cational syatems directed towards the twofold aim of individual fulfilment and national development",  Thank you very much,” Mr, President,
71, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate from Venezuela and I call upon the delegate of Australia,
72,1 Mr, PHILP (Australia):  Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with what has just been said, except perhaps I would  phrase it a little differently, That is to say, in the last sentence of paragraph 24, I would  prefer to see something like thia “Education is still one of the major factors” and not just ‘the  major factor", because I do not think that we have the evidence that education is the major  factor, Then, Instead of "in the development process", read "a development process which is  designed to bridge the gap between the developing and the developed countries and which would  culminate in a world structure that would be better balanced".
72.2 And then in paragraph 42 on communication, again the Australian delegation would agree  with the proposal that the first sentence should read "Communication and the free flow of  objective and well-balanced information..." The world has been flooded too much with unobjec-  tive and badly-balanced communication in the past, and I think it is essential to add those words  "objective and well-balanced’, Thank you, Mr. President,
73.1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Australia, I would like to propose, since we will be breaking very  shortly for lunch, that if any delegates want to suggest changes to suggestions already made,  they should work these out amongst themselves at lunch time,
73.2 The delegate of Peru has the floor,
(74) Mr, CHIAPPO (Peru) (Translation from the Spanish):  Mr, President, we have reached an agreement and we may adjourn the meeting. I should simply like  to add the words: "and the construction of à just world structure", with which Venezuela is in agreement.  Thank you Mr, President,
15. The PRESIDENT:  I give the floor to the last speaker on my list, the delegate of Kenya.
76.1 Mr, WAIREGI (Kenya):  Thank you, Mr, President, The Kenyan delegation would like to thank Dr, Hela and the  Drafting Committee on the good job they have done,
76.2 We have only one minor alteration to suggest and this is to paragraph 33 in’ the section on  natural sciences, We would suggest that the paragraph should read as follows: "International  co-operation in research and higher education concerning new energy sources, such as solar  energy, and concerning mineral resources should be pursued more vigorously", We consider  that since mineral resources are becoming scarcer these days, they should be fncluded here  with new sources of energy. Thank you, Mr, President.
17, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Kenya, The delegate of Belgium has the floor,
78,1 M, VAN ÜSSEL (Belgique). -  Monsieur le Président, j'ai entendu avec intérêt le projet d'amendement que vient de présen-  ter le délégué du Kenya. Je l'approuve entièrement, mais je me demande si le délégué du Kenya  n'accepterait pas de rernplacer l'expression "mineral resources’ par "mineral and natural re-
23 sources'' ; il n'y a pas en effet que les minerais, 11 y a d'autres ressources qui peuvent être substi-  tuées aux matières premières existantes,
78,2 D'autre part, dens le cadre dev résolutions et de la Déclaration sur l'instauration d'un nouvel  ordre économique international, je me demande s'il'ne conviendrait pag d'ajouter aux "nouvelles  sources d'énergie" les ressources alimentaires, On mentionnerait ainsi l'énargle solaire, les res-  sources naturélles et minérales ainsi que lés nouvelles ressources alimentaires, Merci, Monsieur  le Président,
19, The FRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Belgium. This discussion will be resumed at the 24th plenary mee: -  ing of the General Conference at 3 o'clock this afternoon, The meeting is adjourned,  The meeting rose at 1, 10 p.m,  La séance est levée à 13 h, 10  Se levanta la sesidn a las 13, 10