Forty-second plenary meeting
21 November 1974 at 3.25 p.m,  President: Mrs, JOBORU (Hungary)  Quarante-deuxième séance plénière
21 Hon6pa 1974 rosa 8 15 4, 25 Mun.  Mpeacenarens: r-xa HOBOPY (Betrpna)  RII LUI PARI PAN]  Ae aa BLN AYE GBI Ors Lomiss 1 ue  {+21} sor Tan); dws)  REPORT OF COMMISSION V (GENERAL PROGRAMME MATTERS)  RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION V (QUESTIONS GENERALES RELATIVES AU PROGRAMME)  INFORME DE LA COMISION V (ASUNTOS DE CARACTER GENERAL DEL PROGRAMA)  JNOKJIAL KOMHCCHH V (OBIIME BOTIPOCbI, KACADLIHEC#H IIPOFPAMMBbI)  (BW) GUN ght ) ele I 5
1.1 The PRESIDENT:  The meeting is called to ordér, Ladies and gentlemen, our business for this afternoon calls  for decisions by the General Conference arising from the report of Commission V on General  Programme Matters, The relevant documents are: 18 C/124 and 18 C/124 Annex-Recommendations;
18 C/131, which is the report of the Commission on items 14 and 35 of the agenda concerning  document 18 C/4, and {is Annex-Recommendatione; and document 18 C/132, being the report of  the Commission after ft had considered the conclusions of the Working Group set up by decision  of the General Committee regarding programme structures for information, documentation,  libraries and archives, together with its Annex-Recommendations,
1.2 Now I call on the Chairman of Commission V, Mr. Napoléon LeBlanc, for presentation of  the report of the Commission.
2.1 M. LeBLANC (Canada) (président de la Commission V). - “  Madame la Présidente, le rapport de la Commission V se compose en fait des trois rapports  contenus dans les documents 18 C/124, 18 C/131 et 18 C/132.
2.2 La Commission ayant été invitée à étudier en profondeur certains sous-chapitres du document
18 C/5, le document 18 C/124 porte notamment sur les points sulvanis:: les programmes fntersec-  torlels (concernant d'une part les droits de l'homme et la paix, d'autre part la population) ; les  normes internationales et le droit d'auteur ; 1a coopération avec les. commissions nationales ; le  Programme de participation ; les programmes internationaux, les fonds-en-dépôt:; la coopération  européenne, .Ÿ sont également traités d'autres points qui peuvent être considérés comme étant  d'une portée plus générale, à savoir le point 33 - Opportunité d'adopter une réglementation inter-  nationale concernant la protection des traducteurs ; le point 34 - Rapport du, Directeur général eur  les modifications intervenues dans le classement des organisations internationales non gouverne-  mentales ; le point 36 - Politique en matière de publications de l'Organisation ; le point 39 - Défi-  nition des régions en vue de l'exécution par l'Organisation des activités de caractère régional ; le  point 40 - Périodicité du rapport du Directeur général sur l'activité de l'Organisation ; et enfin  le point 62 - Rapport du Directeur général au sujet de la proclamation d'années internationales.
2.3 Le rapport contenu dans le document 18 C/124 a été approuvé par la Commission V lors de sa  séance de lundi dernier. Quand le rapporteur aura indiqué les quelques corrections mineures
2 qu'il convient de lui apporter pour en éliminer toute ambigulté, la Conférence générale voudra bien,  j'espère, en prendre note,
2,4 Dans le document 18 C/124 Annexe-Recommandations, nous avons fait figurer, avant chaque  texte de résolution, toutes indications utiles concernant la position adoptée par la Commission à  l'égard de ce texte.  CL - D - à Pt 4 + 5
2.5 Quand la Conférence générale aura fini d'examiner les documents 18 ‘G/124 ‘et 18°C/124 Annexe-  Recommandations, je voudrais, Madame la Présidente, avec votre permission, lui présenter plus  particulièrement le document 18 C/131, Celui-ci a trait, en effet, a l'une des tâches les plus im-  portantes qui incombalt à la Commission V : l'étude et la formulation de directives à l'intention du  Directeur général et du Secrétariat concernant la programmation à moyen terme.
2.6 J'aurai également a'présenter à la Conférence générale les documents 18 C/132 et 18 C/132  Annexe-Recommandations, auxquels est joint le rapport du Groupe de travail sur les structures du  programme pour l'information, la documentation, les bibliothèques et les archives.
2.7 Enfin, Madame la Présidente,’ je me propose, avec votre permission, de faire rapport sur  la réunion conjointe qu'ont tenue la Commission du programme et la Commission administrative  sur la résolution portant ouverture de crédits pour 1975-1976. Je vous remercie.
3. The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Chairman of Commission V for the presentation of his report. The Rapporteur of  the Commission has the floor.
4,1 M, KELLER (République fédérale d'Allemagne) (rapporteur de la Commission V). -  Madame la Présidente, Mesdames, Messieurs les délégués, je voudrais apporter quelques  corrections aux documents qui vous sont soumis pour approbation,
4,2 Dans la section D du document 18 C/124 intitulée "Normes internationales et droit d'auteur",  au paragraphe 13 il convient de lire non pas "15 C/5" mais "18 C/5", Dans la section F, intitulée  "Programme de participation", les cinquième, sixième et septième lignes du texte français du  paragraphe 2 doivent se lire comme suit : "'et à l'Organisation pour Ja libération de la Palestine,  reconnue par la Ligue des Etats arabes, auxquels lesdites organisations régionales serviront d'in-  termédisires'. Dans la section M, intitulée "Définition des régions eu vue de l'exécution par l'Or-  ganisation des activités de caractère régional", la dernière phrase du paragraphe 40 devrait se  lire comme suit : "Il a toutefois exprimé un doute en ce qui concerne la recevabilité des sous-  amendements qui viseralent à ajouter à un amendement des éléments de la proposition initiale que  ledit amendement étaft destiné à supprimer"'. Dans ce contexte, Mesdames èt Messieurs les délé-  gués, j'attire votre attention eur le fait que, lors de l'adoption du rapport de la Commission V, le  délégué de la France avait demandé que soient ajoutés les mots "ir légitimité" [des sous-amende-  ments]. En vérifiant les bandes, j'ai pu constater que ce n'était pas le mot "légitimité" qui avait  été utilisé mais le mot "recevabilité", que l’on a omts de mettre ici. Il convient donc de lire :  "en ce qui concerne la recevabilité des sous-amendements",
4.3 Dans le document 18 C/124 Annexe-Recommandations, il y aurait également une modification  à apporter à la résolution 6,22, relative à la coopération avec les commissions nationales. L'ali-  néa (d) (vi) devrait se lire ainsi : améliorer la communication et la coopération entre les com-  missions nationales et le Secrétariat"!
4.4 Dans le document 18 C/131, à la page 5 du texte français, dixième ligne, ce n'est pas "9.4  (Développement rural}"'qu'il faut lire, mats "9,2 (Développement rural)",
4.5 Dans le document 18 C/131 Annexe-Recommandations, il convient en outre de rétablir, à la  section II, les articles définis qui figurent dans le 18 C/4, et de tre : "Le respect des droits de  l'homme et l'établissement des conditions de la paix" ; "Le développement de l'homme et de la  société" et "L'équilibre et l'harmonie de l'homme et de la nature”. Madame la Présidente, je vous  remercie,  EXAMINA TION OF DOCUMENTS 18 C/124 AND 18 C/124 ANNEX-RECOMMENDATIONS  EXAMEN DES DOCUMENTS 18 C/124 ET 18 C/124 ANNEXE - RECOMMENDA TIONS  EXAMEN DE LOS DOCUMENTOS 18 C/124 Y 18 C/124 - ANEXO-RECOMENDACIONES  PACCMOTPEHHE JIOKYMEHTOB 18 C/124 u 18 C/124 Annex-Recommendations  Sly = GAL Y C/A VY L700 A CSSS ALU
5.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Ladiés and gentlemen, 1 wish to remind you now that the narrative part of the  report, 18 C/124, only requires to be noted by the Conference, Can I consider the narrative  part as taken note of by the Conference? Agreed,
5.2 Now we tukn to document 18 C/124 Annex-Recommendations. As we go, I hope you will be  noting the work plans, as you did last night while adopting other reports, As for the budget  figares, they will be noted later this afternoon when we deal with the Appropriation Resolution,
414   Document 18 C/124 Annex-Récommendations 42    Sub-Chapter 5,1 - Human rights and peace  Paragraph 1
5,3 The Commission recommended by 34 votes to none, with 21 abstentions, that the General  Conference adopt this resolution. Does anybody ask for a formal vote on this resolution? The  delegates of China and France do so ask, 1 put the resolution to the vote, -  (A vote was taken by a show of hands.)
5.4 The resolution has been adopted by 65 votes to none, with 16 abstentions,
5.5 Can we move on to paragraph 2? The delegate of Norway has the floor.
6.1 Mr, GISVOLD (Norway):  Madam President, on behalf of the delegations of Finland, Sweden and Norway, I would like  to explain our vote on the resolution which has just been passed. \Vhen this resolution was voted  upon in the Commission our delegations abstained, Our abstention was mainly an expression of  concern about the many amendments which had bern introduced into the original text of the  Secretariat, We would have been much happier with the Secretariat's text which was succinet and  to the point. The amendments which were introduced, to our minds, made the text look very  heavy and gave the impression that the objectives set out were quite out of proportion with the  rather modest programme activities foreseen,
6.2 The reason why we have nevertheless chosen to vote in favour of the text now, here in  plenary, is that we have felt that, in spite of our uneasiness with some of the heavy verbal  framework which has been introduced, we should express support in principle for Unesco's  programme for human rights and peace by a positive vote. Thank you, Madam President.
7, The President  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of China,
8, Mrs. YEH SHIH CHUN (People's Republic of China) (Speech delivered in Chinese; English  translation taken from interpretation):  The Chinese delegation abstained in the vote on resolution 5, 11 (paragraph 1), for we have  different views with regard to some of the formulations in the presentation of the question of  peace and human rights, That is why we abstained, Thank you, Madame President,
9.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you,  Paragraph 2
9.2 The Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolution  given in paragraph 2, Does anybody ask for a formal vote? The delegate of China has the floor,
10, Mrs, YEH SHH-CHUN (People's Republic of China) (Speech delivered in Chinese; English  translation taken from interpretation):  Madame President, thank you for giving me the floor once again. With regard to some of  the conventions and international conferences referred to in the draft resolution in paragraph 2  of Chapter 5, we have not been a party to them and we will have to make a study of them; there-  fore should this resolution be voted upon, the Chinese delegation would abstain. Thank you,  Madame President, nL
11,1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Your statement will be recorded, 1 can consider this resolution in paragraph 2  as adopted,  Paragraph 6
11,2 ‘The Commission recommended by 53 votes to none, with one abstention, that the General  Conference adopt the resolution contained in this paragraph, I give the floor to the Deputy  Director-General,  ‘12,1 Mr, FOBES (Deputy Director-General):  Madam President, I have two points to bring before the Conference, The first is relatively  simple, it 1s to suggest that in the final text of this resolution we substitute the word "trans-  national" for the word "multinational" so that in each place where the text reads "multinational  corporations" we would now referto "transnational corporations. Madam President, this is  simply to conform with the basic resolution on the subject, which is resolution 1902 of the  Economic and Social Council adopted on 2 August of this year, Until that time it is true that the
42 phrasc "multinational corporations" was "sed in our documentation and other documentations,  Subsequent, however, to the United Nations action the phrase "transnational"” has been used and,  in fact, the Conference already used that new phraseology in the resolution it adopted on the  establishment of the New International Economic Order, but it is simply to conform with United  Nations terminology.
12,2 The second point, Madam President, deals with the possible costs of the study which is  requested, or rather the advice of experts which is requested under this resolution, As I explained  in the Commission when the subject came up, there is, in fact, no money provided in the budget  for the calling together of the group of experts, but the Director-General would, as invited here,  make efforts during the execution of the Programme for 1975-1976 to find the necessary budgetary  provisions, which could amount to between $20,000 and $25,000, I simply wish to record that  again in the plenary, but I must, in doing so, draw the attention of the plenary to the fact that  yesterday, in the adoption of the report and recommendations of Commission HI, the Director-  General was also invited during execution of the Programme and Budget to, as far as possible,  find ways of increasing the funds for cultural development and cultural studies, So I simply  record these two facts, which we will bring to the attention of the Executive Board as we try to  find monies to carry out activities for which no original budget provision was made, Thank you,
13,1 The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the Deputy Director-General, The resolution contained in paragraph 5 as amended  is unanimously adopted. ,  Sub-Chapter 5,2 - Population    Paragraph 1
13.2 The Commission recommended by 28 votes to none, with 4 abstentions, that the General  Conference adopt the résolution. It is unanimously adopted by the Couference,  Paragraph 2
13.3 The Commission recommended by 34 votes to none, with 1 abstention, that the General Con-  ference adopt this resolution. It Is unanimously adopted.  Sub-Chapter 6,1 - International Standards and Copyright  Section I - International Standards   Paragraph 1
13.4 The Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt resolu-  tion 6, 10, It is unanimously adopted,  Paragraph 2
13.5 The Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt resolu-  tion 6,11, It is unanimously adopted,
13,6 We now come to Section II of Sub-Chapter 6.1,
13.7 The delegate of Switzerland has the floor,
14,1 M. HUMMEL (Silsse). -  Madame la Présidente, veuillez m'excuser de vous irterrompre. Sans vouloir ouvrir un débat,  j'aimerais faire une petite remarque au sujet du paragraphe 3 et au sujet de la résolution que nous  venons d'adopter sur les normes internationales.
14.2 Nous avons déjà exprimé les inquiétudes que nous ressentons devant la multiplication des tns-  truments internationaux qui sont produits dans cette maison, Cette sorte d'inflation fait que beau-  coup desdits instruments risquent de perdre en partie leur valeur et de n'avoir plus dans les pays  qu'un impact réduit ; et elle commence à nous poser certains problèmes du fait que nos rouages  administratifs ne sont pas faits pour s'accommoder d'un tel flot d'instruments.
14,3 La Conférence générale a accepté à sa présente session toutes les propositions qui lui ont  été faites en ce qui concerne la préparation d'instruments internationaux ; {1 y en aura donc onze  à préparer au cours de l'exercice biennal qui vient, Voilà pour la quantité.
14.4 Mais ce qui nous préoccupe, c'est aussi la qualité de ces Instruments, qui sont souvent ré-  digés d'une maniére pea satisfaisante, Nous savons blen, Madame la Présidente, que puisque les  Etats membres participent, par l'entremise dé conférences des experts, à l'élaboration de ces  instruments il sont eüûx-mêmes responsables de cette insuffisante qualité des textes. Mais nous  pensons que, gi les projets sur lesquels nous travaillons - sur lesquels travaillent les Etats
416   ‘membres - étalent meilleurs, les textes auxquels nous arriverions seraient, eux aussi, meilleurs, 42  et nous voudrions prier inetamment le Secrétariat de veiller à ce que ces projets solent rédigés  avec le plus grand soin, surtout du point de vue juridique.
14,5 Nous espérons que, dans l'avenir, les juristes du Secrétariat joueront un rôle beaucoup plue  actif et beaucoup plus décisif dans la rédaction des textes que nous aurons à discuter, Je vous  remercie, Madame la Présidente.
16, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, 1 give the floor to the delegate of the United Kingdom,
16. Mr. McCULLOCH (United Kingdom):  Thank you, . Madam President, The United Kingdom delegation spoke in a similar vein in the  discussion In Commission V and I should like toassociate my Government with the remarks made  by the distinguished delegate of Switzerland, Thank you,
17.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Your statements made in that Commission are contained in the narrative part of  the report and they will be recorded in the verbatim records of the plenary,
17.2 The delegate of Denmark has the floor,
18, Mrs, BJERREGAARD (Denmark):  Madam President, I should like my country to appear in the report also as associated with  the same remarks as were made by the delegates of Switzerland and the United Kingdom, Thank  you,
19.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. It will be recorded,  Sub-Chapter 6,1 - Section II - Copyright and Neighbouring Rights  Paragraph 5
19,2 To continue with copyright and neighbouring rights, the Commission unai.imously recom-  mended that the General Conference adopt resolution 6.121, It is unanimously adopted by the  plenary.  Paragraph 6
19,3 The Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolu-  tion contained in paragraph 14 of document 18 C/27 and now contained in this paragraph. It is  unanimously adopted by the Conference,  Paragraph 8
19.4 The Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt resolu-  tion 6,122, It is unanimously adopted.  Paragraph 9
19,5 The Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt resolu-  tion 6,123, It was unanimously adopted,  Paragraph 10
19.6 The Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolu-  tion contained in document 18 C/DR, 137 amended and now contained in this paragraph. ! give  the floor to the Deputy Director-General,
20,1 Mr, FOBES (Deputy Director-General):  Madam President, I have three points of fact to bring to the attention of the plenary, First  of all, in the budget provisions for the activities authorized by this resolution, Commission V has  made a change and you will be taking account of that change when you come to the Appropriation  Resolution. In fact the Commission has reéommended a reduction in the budget provisions for  this activity of $19,650, for reasons that will become clear in my next point of fdet,
20,2 In the report of Commission V you will have seen a reference to a declaration made by a  representative of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). That organization expressed  the wish that it be associated with the implementation of the programme concerning double taxation  of copyright royalties, This programme is referred fo in paragraph 6069 of dodliment 18 C/5 and  is one of the activities in the programme represented by this resolution. The offer from WIPO,  an organization with which Unesco has had long and close working relationships - relationships  which have been reaffirmed in a working agreement - has been favourably received by the Secre-
42 tariat, So now I can Inform the Conference that by a letter dated 4 November 1974 the Director-  General of WIPO has confirmed the offer of co-operation and proposed, that the committee of  governmental experts to be convened in 1875 to prepare the instrument in question should be  convened jointly by Unesco and WIPO. This would also be the cage for the subsequent International  Conferénce of States, when held, concerning this instrument. ‘Here I would like to quote portions  of the letter from the Director-General of WIPO. He says first of all: "I foresee no difficulties  in amending accordingly our programrne of 1975 when our competent bodies meet next year". He:  simply means {6 say that he feels confident that the sharing of costs by WIPO for this meeting of  experts will be arranged by hi competent body. Secondly, the Director-General of WIPO Bays  that "we would conform to thé 'deéisions of the competeiit bodies of Unesco concerning participation”.  This matter is of concern to the Director-General of Unesco, so that he can assure that he is able  to apply decisions of the General Conference concerning participation’ in conferences. ‘Thus, under  the circumstances, ‘the Director-General of Unesco does not foresee any obstacle to accepting the  proposal by WIPO and we have accordingly informed that organization in a létter dated 13 November  that we would participate in the joint conference. We willbe submitting a document in this respect  to the Executive Board next week when the decisions are taken concerning invitations to participate  in conferences.
20.3 The third point of fact, Madam President, {s simply to note before you that following your  recent decisions concerning African liberation movements recognized by the OAU and concerning  the Palestine Liberation Organization, recognized by the League of Arab States, a technical  change needs to be made in the draft resolution in operative paragraph 3(a). The words "to  decide which States and organizations should be invited to the Conference" are now too restrictive.  Therefore 3(a) should read "to decide on the invitations to this Conference", This wording thereby  opens the way to Invitations decided by the Executive Board to participants other than Member  States and organizations, and to include all that may be thus authorized by your General Confer-  ence decisions, Thank you, Madam President, .
21,1 The PRESIDENT:
1 thank the Deputy Director-General for the information he has given. Can I consider the  resolution contained in paragraph 10, as amended, unanimously adopted by the Conference? It  is unanimously adopted.  Sub-Chapter 6.2 - Co-operation with National Commissions  Paragraph 1
21.2 The Commission recommended unanimously that the General Conference adopt resolu-  tion 6.21. The resolution is unanimously adopted by the Conference,  Paragraph 2
21,3 The Commission recommended unanimously that the General Conference adopt resolu-  tion 6,22. It is unanimously adopted,  Paragraph 3
21.4 The Commission recommended unanimously that the General Conference adopt the resolu-  tion contained in document 18 C/PRG/DR, 9, amended, and now shown in th: naragraph. It is  unanimously adopted.  Sub-Chapter 6,3 - Participation Programme  Paragraph 1
21,5 The Commission recommended by 41 votes to none, with 10 abstentions, that the General  Conference adopt resolution 6,31 as shown in this paragraph.
21.6 The delegate of France has the floor.
22, M, CHESNEAU (France). -  Madame la Présidente, nous souhaitons pour cette résolution un nouveau vote, Merci, Ma-  dame la Présidente.
23,1 The PRESIDENT: .  Thank you, 1 put to the vote the resolution contained in paragraph 1.  (The vote was taken by show of hands, )
23,2 The resolution has been adopted by 66 votes without opposition, with 20 abstentions.  Sub-Chapter 6,4 - International Programmes  Paragraph 1
23.3 The Commisegion unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt resolu- 42  tion 6,41, as amended, the text of which fs given in this paragraph. '
23.4 Resolution 6.41 is adopted,  Paragraph 3
23,5 The Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt resolu-  tion 6,42, the text of which is shown here.
23.6 Resolution 6,42 1s adopted,  Paragraph 5
23.7 The Commission unanimously recommended that.the General Conference adopt resolu-  tion 6.43, the text of which 1s shown in this paragraph.
23,8 Resolution 6,43 is unanimously adopted,  Paragraph 7
23,9 The Commission unanimously recommended that the Genera] Conference adopt resolu-  tion 6,44, the text of which is shown in this paragraph.
23,10 Resolution 6, 44 is unanimously adopted.  Paragraph 9
23,11 The Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt resolu-  tion 6,45, the text of which is given in this paragraph.
23.12 Resolution 6,45 fs unanimously adopted,  Paragraph 11
23,13 The Commission unanfmously recommended that the General Conference adopt resolu-
6.46, the text of which is given in this paragraph,
23,14 Resolution 6,46 is unanimously adopted.  Sub-Chapter 6.5 - Funds-in- Trust  Paragraph 1
23,15 The Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt resolu-  tion 6, 51, the text of which is given in paragraph 1.
23,16 Resolution 6. 51 is unanimously adopted,  Paragraph 2
23,17 The Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt the draft  resolution in document 18 C/DR, 262, as amended and reproduced in paragraph 2.
23,18 The draft resolution in document 18 C/DR, 262, as amended, is unanimously adopted,  Paragraph 3
23,19 The Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference adopt the resolu-  tion contained in this paragraph.
23.20 The resolution in paragraph 3 is adopted,  Sub-Chapter 6. 6 - European Co-operation  Paragraph 1
23.21 The Commission recommended by 47 votes to none, with 6 abstentions, that the General  Conference adopt the resolution contained in document 18 C/DR. 180 Rev,, as amended, the text  of which is given in this paragraph. ’ ’
23,22 The resolution contained in document 18 C/DR. 180 Rev., as amended is unanimously  adopted, )
42 Item 33 = Desirability of adopting an international instrument for the protection of translators
23.23 The Commission recommended by 53 votes in favour, 1 against and 2 abstentions, that the  General Conference adopt the resolution contained In document 18 C/DR. 172, as amended, the  text of which is reproduced here,  (A vote was taken by show of hands, )
23,24 The resolution has been adopted by 80 votes to one' with 6 abstentions,  Item 34 - Report of the Dii ctor-General on changes in classification of International and non-  governmental organizations
23,25 The Commission unanimously recommended that the General Conference take note of  document 18 C/37,  +
23,26 The Conference takes note of document 18 C/37.  Itern 36 - Publications policy
23,27 The Commission recommended unanimously that the General Conference adopt the resolu-  tion contained in paragraph 55 of documerit 18 C/94, as amended, The amended text is given in  this paragraph,
23,28 The resolution contained in document 18 C/94, paragraph 55, as amended, is unanimously  adopted,  Item 39 - Definition of regions with a view to the execution by the Organization of  regional activities
23.29 The Commission recommended by 30 votes in favour, none against and one abstention, that  the General Conference adopt the resolution given under this heading.
23.30 I give the floor to the Deputy Director-General,
24.1 Mr, FOBES (Deputy Director-General):  Madam President, it seems desirable to record two ‘points as a basis and to assist in your  discussior. First, since the time when Commission V examined this itern one more country has  become a Member State of Unesco, I refer to San Marino, which deposited its instrument of  acceptance of the Constitution on 12 November, thus becoming the 135th Member State. The  General Conference will no doubt wish to consider including San Marino in the resolution under  this item,
24,2 The second point is more by way of clarification, It seemed to the Director-General that  with regard to the definition of regions, it would be well to stress and to record once more the  distinction which should be made as far as regional grouping of different kinds is concerned,
24,3 There is first of all a type of grouping for the purpose of elections to the Executive Board,  the so-called electoral groups. This was adopted by the General Conference at its fifteenth ses-  sion, in 1968, by resolution 11,1, under which each and every Member State of Unesco - I repeat,  each and every Member State - is attached to a single electoral group and to one only, Action is  taken at each General Conference with regard to Member States which have joined the Organization  since the previous session,
24.4 Madam President, I know that the facts are known to delegates and governments. The  Director-General, however, asked me to record once more and to clarify that the grouping of  Member States with a view to the execution of activities, principally regional activities, and the  Issue which you are now examining, is of a different nature and does not follow the same pattern  ag electoral groups,
24.5 Furthermore, under this second concept, some countries are invited to participate in more  than one region, while in the present case one Member State, Israel, has not been assigned to any  region in the draft resolution before you as submitted by Commission V, If it is not included in  the resolution, the Director-General asked me simply to record once more that it dées not auto-  matically fall into a region by lack of action on your part. Israel, while a member of an electoral  group for electoral purposes, is not now, and without your action would not be, listed in a group  of the second category, namely, the grouping set up for execution of programme activities,  . - A EN .
25, The PRESIDENT: 10 rh . Co  I thank the Deputy Director-General, I have several speakers on my list. I give the floor to  the delegate of Israel,
26. Mr. BAR- YAACOV (Israel):  Madam President, in the light of the statement we have just heard from the Deputy Director-
420   General, I think it would be appropriate for the General Conference in plenary session to express 42  its view on the question of Israel's participation in the regional activities, And I think that in that  case, Madam President, it would be appropriate for you to request a vote on that particular item.
27. The PRESIDENT: )  Are you proposing an amendment to the resolution?
28, Mr, BAR- YAACOV (Israel):  Madam President, if you wish it in the formal f form: yes,
29. The PRESIDENT:  Well, I don't wish anything, 1am asking you whether you are submitting an amendment to the  resolution,
30. Mr. BAR- YAACOV (Israel):  I move that Israel be added to the list of States in the resolution contained in item 39; on the  left side, Israel; on the right side: Europe.
31. The PRESIDENT:  I give the floor to the delegate of China.
32.1 Mr, YEH CHENG- PA (People's Republic of China) (Speech delivered in Chinese; English  translation taken from interpretation):  Madam President, during the discussion of the question of the definition of regions in Commis-  sion V, the Chinese delegation, on several occasions, explicitly expressed ité opposition to the un-  reasonable demand of the USSR to work its way into the Asian and Oceanic group, Now the Chinese  delegation feels it necessary to further reiterate its stand of principle.
32.2 The Asian and Oceanic group of Unesco is a group composed of Asian and Oceanic States with  a view to the execution of regional activities. The USSR has always been generally acknowledged as  a European State. It has no justification whatever to join the Asian and Oceanic group; still less  to join both the European group and the Asian and Oceanic group.
32,3 It is true that the USSR has territory in both Europe and Âs/a, and that it has (wo-thirds of  its territory in Asia, Nevertheless, almost three-fourths of its population is in Europe, and its  political centre has always been in Europe. Whatever the size of its territory or population, or its  trans-continental geographical position, as a State it can only be one single entity in international  relations, It can only have one political centre and is one political unit, One cannot say simply  because it has its territory in both Europe and Asia that the USSR has ‘two political centres or  represents two political units and therefore it has the dual capacity of both a European State and  an Asian State, Viewed politically, economically and culturally, whether In the past or at present,  the USSR has always been a European State. It has never been an Asian State, Still less a State  with the dual capacity of both a European State and an Asian State.
32.4 There is not the slightest doubt about it, Take, for example, the Summit Conference of  Asian and African States held in Bandung, Indonesia, in 1955, namely the first Afro-Asian  Conference. The Soviet Union was not invited to this Conference, Mr. Nehru, the late: Premier  of India, one of the sponsors of the Conference, pointed out at a press conference held in Jakarta  on 30 December 1954: "The Asian part of the Soviet Union hag not been invited, because politically  it ié part éf a European unit, ‘that is the Soviet Union", Mr, Nehru was right in his statement. It  was precigely for this reason that nefther the Soviet Union nor the Asian republics of the USSR were  _ invited to the Afro-Aslan Confererice, either fh'the capacity of delegates or as observers. To this  the Soviet Government raised no‘objection at that time,
32.5 The fact that the USSR is a European State has also been accepted by officials of the Soviet  Government. Madam President, as our Conference is oeing Leld in'Parls, the capital of France,  I might'quote Mr, VinogradoV, former Soviet Ambassador to Paris. ‘On 11 March 1965, when  asked by newspaper reporters whether the USSR was closer to Europe or to Asia, Mr, Vinogradov  categorically replied: “The USSR is a European State, with a part of it in Asia", The USSR is an  intégral whole. Mr. Vinogrado* was also right in his statement.
32.6 So far, in the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies, the USSR has always participated in  regional ‘activities In the capacity of a European State. Ten years ago, that is in 1964; at the  thirteénth session of thé General Cénferénce,’ our Orgahization decided to include the USSR in the  reglonal group of Europe, Is {t that the geographical position of the USSR has changed or that the  political State of the USSR has shifted from Europe to Asia, or is it that in international relations  the USSR has multiplied into two integral wholes? In point of fact, no such changes have taken  place.
32.7 The extremely unreasonable claim by the USSR to join the Asian and Oceanic group only  serves to show that in order to step up its aggression and expansion and to pursue its Imperlalistic,  neo-colonialist and hegomonic policies, it has reached out {te grasping hands everywhere and would  let no chance slip, The current meeting of the General Conference was originally to examine the  question of regional grouping with regard to those States which are not included in any.regional
42 group. The USSR, however, availed itself of the opportunity to fish in troubled watèrs and to  impose by ignoble means its unreasonable demands on the General Conference. Isthis not an act  of out-and-out hegemony?
32.8 With regard to the so-called arguments put forward by the Soviet delegation; ’ we have refuted  them, and we shall not repeat them, We should just like to raise one question. The so-called  reason repeated by the Soviet delegate is that the USSR has attended the Unesco intergovernmental  Conferences of the Asian region. Asweallknow, apart from the USSR, other members of the United  Nations have also taken part in conferences in the Aslan région. Such countries have not thereby  become Asian States, Distinguished delegate from the USSR, the USSR is the only country that  has become an Asian {tate just because it has taken part in some Asian conferences, If this is so,  you should first of all withdraw from the group of Europe, Then'the Conférence could examine  what category of countries the USSR belongs to and in which group it should be allowed to partici-  pate. Otherwise, it would only serve to prove that in order to take additional privileges and to  pursue hegemony, the USSR is manufacturing all sorts of pretexts.
32,9 The Chinese delegation reiterates that the USSR is a European State. It has no reason what-  ever to work its way into the group of Asia and Oceania, still less to join at the same time both  the European group and the group of Asia and Oceania, The Chinese delegation maintains that  States in the world, big or small, are all equal, The super -Power, USSR, must not be allowed  to enjoy additional and superior prerogatives in Unesco. Our Organization should not open its doors  to acts of hegemony, The Chinese delegation is firmly opposed to this act of hegemony by the  USSR,
32,10 Madam President, the Chinese delegation, at the same time proposes that the request of  the Soviet Union in the draft resolution be put to a separate vote. Thank you, Madam President,
33, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of France.
34, M, MAILLARD (France). -  Madame la Présidente, ma délégation n'entend pas rouvrir le débat qui a eu lieu sur ce point  au sein de la Commission V, Elle a en effet déjà fait connaître les sérieuses réserves qu'inspirent  au gouvernement français les solutions adoptées en ce qui concerne l'exercice des activités régio-  nales au sein de l'Unesco, et cela pour des raisons de principe qui tiennent à son souci de voir  respecter la spécificité des régions, et, en l'occurrence, de l'Europe. ‘Ces réserves ont encore  été accrues par les conditions, à ses yeux peu régulières, dans lesquelles s'est déroulé le débat  en commission, Ce n'est'done qu'en raigoi los lièns d'amitié’ qui 1'unissent aux Etats pour lesquels  un problème se posait que la délégation frangaise a, sur ce point, émis en commission un vote  global d'abstention, Elle maintiendra aujourd'hul cette position en se réservant cependant d'appré-  cier ultérieurement les conséquences qu'il lui paraftrait opportun de tirer, sur le plan des activités  régionales, des dispositions adoptées, Merci, Madame la Présidente.
35, The PRESIDENT :  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Lebanon.
36. M, STETIE (Liban), -  Madame la Présidente, je voudrais m'opposer au projet d'amendement que vient de soumettre  le représentant d'Israël, En refusant d'inclure Israël dans une région déterminée du monde, la  Commission V n'a fait que consacrer dans les faits, par souci de clarification, la situation entre  toutes ambiguë d'un Etat qui ne saurait être nulle part, parce qu'il n'est de nulle part, Cet Etat,  on l'a assez dit, est sur le plan historique et géographique, un paradoxe, Le vote de la Commis-  sion n'a fait que refléter, comme le fera vraisemblablement le vote de la Conférence, sa nature  ambiguë et paradoxale. Israël, à notre sens, retrouvera une famille le jour où, renonçant défini-  tivement à sa politique d'agression et de défi permanent à l'égard de la communauté des nations,  il se décidera à se plier aux lois et aux règles sans lesquelles il n'y a pas de communauté pos-  sible, C'est parce que beaucoup d'entre nous - et je ne parle pas seulement des délégations arabes -  considèrent le comportement de cet Etat comme inadm{seible du point de vue de la morale poli-  tique internationale qu'Israël ne saurait être edmis nulle part, semblable en cela à quelques autres  Etats, tels l'Afrique du Sud ou la Rhodésie, On ne saurait larmoyer sur l'isolement de ces Etats,  isolement provoqué par eux-mêmes et dont ils sont enttèrement responsables, Et si les amis  d'Israël ici ou 13, dans la presse ou ailleure, veulent vraiment rendre service à cet Etat, qu'ils  le conseillent mieux et l'initient aux lois impératives de la vie de groupe, À ce prix seulement, et  À la seule condition de respecter ces lois, Israël pourra prétendre rejoindre un jour la commu-  nauté internationale qui ne peut vivre nl se perpétuer en dehors du respect de ces lois. Merci,  Madame la Présidente.
37, The PRESIDENT:  I thank the delegate of Lebanon, and I give the floor to the delegate of the Soviet Union.
38.2 5 pMCTynan Ha JâCeAAHHH NATOR KOMHCOHH H NOAPOGHO H3INOXHN T6 MOTHBEI, Te COOÔpaXEHHA,  KOTOPsIMH MLI PyKOBOROTBOBANHOb, CTABA 3TOT BONPOC, CoBeTckHA Coms haAKTHY6CKK YK6 AABHO YYA-  CTBYyeT B pabore A3HATCKHX PETHOHANBHBIX OPTAHH3ALUHA, H IHKTO HHKOFAS HE CTABHA MOA COMHOHKE  STOT GakT. Kax MH CYHTANH, peyb Mna o TOM, YTOÔW ae-dakTo caenars Ae-Dpe.
38.3 5 Mory ckasaTb GONbME: eme AO HAMEFO HEHOLHONO IACEAAHHA A 6s11 NPHrNAMEÉH Ha 3acefalHe  asHaTCcKoRñ rpynnsi, KoTopasx coGnpanacb sAëcb, B CT6HAX JOHECKO, Ha KOTOPOM NPHCYTCTBCBANO 30  cTpaH Aanx. fl xoren 6b1 CKA3ATB, TO HH Y KOTO H3 HHX He BO3HHK/0 COMHOHHA B OTHOMEHHH NPHCYT-  CTBHH COBBTCKOTO NPORCTABHTONAN HA STOM COBGMAHHKH, TIO-AGHOBOMY H MNO-COPBEIHOMY OGGYXAANH MBI  HamH NpaxTHYeCKHe AG]a, Aeña HAWero perxoHa. CoserckHä Coms, Kak 4 pahbuie, Ob©Ma/ BHOCTH  CBO BOCOMBIÉR BKNAA B pa6OTy asHATCKOro perHoHä. JAR Hac 3TOT BONPOC COBOPIEHHO OYOBHACH H, KaK  HaM KAXETCA, Ha MATOH KOMHCCHH OH O6CYXAANCH B TAKOM Xe AyXe.
3TOM HHYETO He SHA@T. H TOALKO, KOFAA MH COÉHPAEMCA pemaTe HAMK BAXHbe Jena B cTeHax Haweñ  OpraxHaauxx, Ha yCT KHTaÂcKHX AeneraTos ABOTCA GGCKOHEUHSIÉ NOTOK AHTHCOBETHIMA, KOTOPBÉ Ha-  NOMHHA@T CIHIKOM YX GAGIXOHHYD NAACTHHKY: SI XOTOA 6H OFpAHHYHTBCH STHM KPATKHM 3AM@YaHH"  eM H He MOBTOPATL APFYMEHTOB, KOTOPHE A yYXO H3jaran Ha natoit KOMHCCHH, NPeAOCTAaBAAA ypaxae-  MBM ZlenerataM CAMHM cAenarts BHBOA. Cnacnbo, r-xa Ilpeaceaarens.
(38.1) M, SMIRNOV (Union des républiqués soclalistes soviétiques), - (Traduft du russe.)  Merci, Madame la Présidente, Je voudrats rappeler aux délégués que la question de la participation  de l'Union soviétique à la région asiatique a été examinée de façon approfondie à la cinquième Commission,  Je vous rappelle les résultats du vote qui a eu lieu à ce sujet : 30 délégations ‘se sont exprimées en faveur  de cette mesure parfaitement équitable et qui ne suscite aucun doute ; il n'y à eu aucune voix contre et une  seule abstention a été enregistrée.
(38.2) Pendant les débats de la cinquième Commission, j'al exposé en détail les motifs et les réflexions  qui nous ont guidés en la matière, En réalité, depuis longtemps, l'Unton soviétique participe aux travaux  des organisations régionales asiatiques et personne n'a jamais mis en doute ce fait, Pour nous, il s'agis-  sait de faire d'une situation de facto une situation de jure.
(38.3) Je peux ajo'iter autre chose : avant'la présente séance, j'ai été invité à une réunion du groupe asfa-  tique, qui s'est tenue Ici, dans l'enceinte de l'Unesco, avec la participation de 30 pays d'Asie, Je voudralz  dire qu'2ccun de ces pays n'a émis de doute quant a la participation du représentant soviétique à cette  réunion ; nous avons traité, de façôn cônèrèté et approfondie, de nos problèmes pratiques, des problèmes  de notre rézfon, Comme auparavant, l'Union soviétique a promis de contribuer largement aux activités de
1a région aslatiqu*. Pour nous cette question est limpide et, à notre avis, à la cinquième Commission, elle  a été traitée dans un tel esprit.  FL © . . :
(38,4) Pour ce qui est de l'Intérventton du représentant de la Chine, j'ai l'impression que les délégués  chinols sont venus A l'Unesco pour cetté session de la Conférence générale, et pour la session du Conseil  exécutif, avec un seul dessein, à savoir déverser un baquet de boue sur l'Union soviétique. Qui, Mes-  dames et Messieurs, a entendu parler des activités de la République populaire de Chine à l'Unesco ?  Qu'apporte-t-elle au juste, que fait la délégetion chinoise depuis un an, depuis deux ans ? Personne n'en  seit rlen, Simplement, lorsque nous nous réunissons pour débattré de nos importants problèmes dans  l'enceinte de notre Organisation, les délégués de la Chine reprennent fnlàssablemént leur couplet anti-  soviétique qui fait songer à un disque usé, Je voudrais me borner à cette brève remarque et ne pas re-  prendre des arguments que j'ai déjà exposés À la cinquième Commission, laissant aux délégués le soin de  tirer eux-mêmes la conclusion, Merci, Madame la Présidente,
39. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of the United States of America.
40, Mr, JONES (United States of America):  Thank you, Madam Président, - We would juèt like to'say that in the spirit of Unesco, a spirit  which Is based on equity and fairness, we think that it is a well-established principle that every  Member State is entitled to be a member of a region, and therefore we would urge very strongly .  that this principle of equity and fairness bé observed in the issues that are before 'us today, Specif-  ically we would refer to the request by the Government of Israel to asscciate with the European  region, Thank you, Madam President. -
41. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The delegate of China asks to speak in exercise of his right of reply. I give the  floor to the delegate of China.
42,1 Mr. YEH CHEN-PA (People's Republic of China) (Speech delivered in Chinese; English  translation taken from Interpretation):  With regard to the attack launched by the Soviet delegation I would like to say a few words,  The Soviet Union delegate claims that China has glandered the Soviet Union. This is entirely
42 groundless, The Chinese delegation holds that it ie in duty bound to expose the hegemonic acts of  the USSR and its acts of aggression and expansion.
42,2 ‘As to the label that the Soviet Union has imposed on us, that is that we are anti-Soviet, 1  should like to tell the Soviet delegate that he has misplaced the label, .Those who are really anti-  Soviet are the leadership of the USSR, which has betrayed Lenin's teachings. They have betrayed  their rôle of socialism to engage in a capitalist restoration, The policies you are carrying out are  policies of social imperialism, Those who are anti-Soviet are your leadership, and this label  should be attached to your leadership. . That is most appropriate,
42,3 The Soviet delegate made claims about its contribution to Aslan activities, I can state that  the so-called contribution made is just as in other regions, it is nothing but an extension of  aggression, Thank you, Madam President,
43, The PRESIDENT: -  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of the Soviet Union to exercise his right of reply.
44. T-H H:H: CMHPHOB (Copa Conerckux Couxwantorhueokux Peony6auk). -  CriacH6o, r-xa Mpeaceactens. Sl FOTOB NPUCOCAHHHTBCH K CMeXy 3ana. 51 Gyay OueHB KpaToK,  r-xa Ilpeacenaténs, HO si xoTen Gu OÔPATHTL BHHMAHHO HA HOAOCTORHO® NMOBEAGHHE KHTAACKOro npea-  CTABHTE/A; KOTOPHH B OBO8M BLHICTYILIOHHH CTa/ 3aTParHBaTh BECh COBETCKHA HAPpOA, BCeX COBÎT-  CKHX pyxoBoxHTened. Mu He XOTOAH GM Npobpamatb Hamy TPHOYHY B apoHy HAGO/NOTHYECKHX H NOAH  THYOCKHX CNOPOB: Mbl CYHTA@M, YTO STO * HE MBCTO. 3AeChb M3! AO/XHH AYyMaTh H TOBOPHTE O ApY-  THX A6NaX, H B 3TOR CBA3H A CUHTAD, NO MoHbMER Mepe, HOAOCTORHMM BBICTYNNGHHE KHTAÂCKOFO  npescTaBpHTens. Cnacubo BaM. : 2
(44) M, SMIRNOV (Union des républiques socialistes soviétiques). - (Traduit du russe.)  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je pourrais mêler mon rire à ceux de la salle, Je seral très bref,  Madame la Présidente, mais je voudrais attirer l'attention sur le comportement indigne du représentant  chinois, qui, dans son intervention, s'est plu à soulller le peuple soviétique tout entier, tous les diri-  geants de mon pays, Nous ne voudrions pas que cette tribune devienne une arène où s'affronfent les con-  ceplions idéologiques et politiques : nous pensons que ce n'est pas le Heu approprié, Ici, nous devons dis-  cuter d'autres questions et, à cet égard, j'estime pour le moins indigne l'intervention du représentant  chinois. Je vous remercie,
45, The PRESIDENT: -  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Saudi Arabia,  (esa) Bag, att SLIT ) ols dere end SW dad €)  RUN FE BYU] RPK IPP YW Lie IY WITS PUNY WJ [JET duel ST. WC I} FTIR LE
5 JAN I] pleurent Je Vds de ue | MF 1 YX | 6 deal Sy» WR TR 1  Bo —adl Joni 51 ska E Gab Wg el Le ai pas easton Ym bd dl AL GI CDN  &— WH WT IYI TIP AE REJOIN PHENTRRTA LE WITTE anal pa Vis Ge vg A  Chad eg 515 os Lis Llosa) J pou iin) ots JT Vie Jie 1 0 LI Lgl  Is Get rebualid] CLI Gl Gay SIA Il ol John Lali) Lyles pent sta used aut  Losl passe cali seul af css el a le VV LS 90 Lea) Lig mai à ral Crrcmes  : SR PP J  ah 8 om tE andl uals LS Ls Lans Lies Lys het AU Lind) S101)
6 BY) aJa ols Wis Aree: SIN sy anal SII Jazz bas op, ¥1 00 nis gM pels V1 ole, La!  lues Gérmmaess Jape on Lo Bw tes Gag plus Yl Gehan Gagydo does! pe ayy t Lpadl ve  Vaal! Tigamall nbd aly 081 plist ade RM la 0s Glial lad) p 5 lo eb lS tay of  Cal ell alll Shan SA Ll ga isan! oa  page ul vb pene 954 dl Jyaad! Hi ud cyan Lupa Gad LESLIE Wy HUY  la 48 bpm lees, ld) LI i BIEN Glind Gh pe dates Libs ch oS of  ob GAL 5 iy) Band gaan eines du LIN Lay Lys S sabre cL LU hide Gt Jy va  NT VIR TRV EI POV Vie jf dl 5 val
(46.1) M. AHMED MOHAMED ALI (Royaume d'Arabie saoudite).- (Traduit de l'arabe.)  Merci, Madame la Présidente. Je n'avais pas l'intention de reprendre lef la discussion sur ce sujet,  qui a Eté déjà longuement examiné par la Commission V. Mais l'amendement illogique proposé par le re-  présentant des Autorités de Tel-Aviv m'a incité à demahder la parole.
(46.2) Les élèves de la cinquième année du cycle primaire savent pârfaltement où se trouve le territoire  palestinien, L'amendement qui nous est proposé demande A l'Organisation des Nations Unies pour l'édu-  cation, la science et la culture d'adopter une résclution stipulant que le territoire palestinien fait partie de
424   la région europbenne, . Pareille affirmation est dérisoire, Madame la Présidente ; autant dire quele .. 42  at  - Juifs, Chrêtiens et Musulmans - le droit de vivre en tant que citoyens égaux, rien alors ne s'opposera  plus à l'adhésion de l'Etat palestinien au groupe arabe, auquel il appartient par la réalité géographique,  l'histoire et le patrimoiné culturel. La délégation du Royaume d'Arabie saoudite votera donc, contre |  l'amendement proposé, et invite toutes les délégations soucleuses de faire en sorte que les résolutions de  notre Organisation soient conformes À la réalité historique et géographique et au patrimoine culturel, de  voter, elles aussi contre ce projet'd'amendement, afin de prééervèr la dignité et la position insigne des  résolutions de notre Organisation. La délégatioh de l'Arabie saoudite se réserve, Madame la Présidente,  le droit de reprendre la parole à ce sujet, si c'était nécessaire. ' .
47,1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Ladies and géntlemen, a non-governmental organization, the Consultative Council  of Jewish Organizations, applied to the General Cominittée of he’ Gen ral Conference to be granted  the right to speak, The General Committee decided to grant the right to speak to this organization.
47.2 I call upon the representative of the Consultative Council of Jewish Orgenizations,
48, M, BRUNSCHWIG (Conseil consultatif d'organisations juives). -  Madame la Présidente, c'est à votre bienveillance - dont je vous remercie - que l'organisa-  tiori noh gouvérnementale que jé représente doit de pouvoir aujourd'hui intervenir sur le point 39  de l'ordre du jour concernant la définition des régions, Nous considérons que c'est un honneur pour  notre organisation que d'être acoréditée auprès de l'Unesco, institution à laquelle nous portons un  grand respect et que nous voulons aider et soutenir, Quelle autre institution serait plus digne de  notre dévouement ? Nous comptons parmi nos membres une association qui, depuis près de 120ans,  a diffusé dans tout le bassin méditerranéen la culture, l'éducation et la science, Notre président  fondateur, dont la lettre émouvante vous a été lue hier, a combattu inlassablement pour les droits  de l'homme et obtenu le prix Nobel de la paix. Votre assemhlée générale va avoir à se prononcer  sur ce qui est, en fait, l'exclusion d'un Etat de la géographie de cette terre : Etat qui ne peut se  dire ni africain parce qu'il est en Asie, ni arabe parce qu'il est hébreu, ni asiatique - comme  "Australie - parce que le Proche-Orient n'est pas inclus dans l'Asie, ni européen enfin, bien queles  nations européennes auralent accepté, j'en suis convaincu, qu'il fût porté sur la même liste qu'elles,  comme l'ont été le Canada et les Etats-Unis d'Amérique. Cet Etat, en fait, annihilé. Or cet Etat  ne serait pas né sans les Nations Unies, Il ne seralt pas né non plus suns le judaïsme, L'Unesco  peut-elle oublier qu'il est ainsi porteur d'une des plus anciennes traditions spirituelles du monde ?  Peut-elle ignorer que le judaïsme considère que son destin particulier est d'être au service de  l'humaine moralité ? Qu'il me soit aussi permis de rappeler que 1'Acte constitutif confère à chaque  Etat non seulement le droit mais encore le devoir de participer pleinement et de façon régulière  aux activités - tant régionales qu'internationales - de l'Unesco. Très respectueusement, je vous  demande, Mesdames et Messieurs, d'acouter ce que je vais vous dire : j'étais présent à Genève en
1935 quand la Société des nations a permis à une nation européenne, 1l'Italie de Mussolini, d'essayer  de réduire à néant un de ses membres, un membre africain : l'Ethiopie, La loi de la majorité  - majorité, n'abusez pas de votre pouvoir !'' -, la loi de la majorité et son silence ont alors fait  obstacle aux protestations de la victime qui n'a pu - et ses paroles résonnent encore à mes oreilles-  qu'annoncer les catastrophes dont ce sacrifice était le signe avant-coureur. Oh, je le sais, il y a  dans cette assemblée tout un courant politique - je dis bien politique - qui, en attendant l'anéantis-  sement d'Israël, veut qu'Israël soit sans existence. Et quoi de mieux pour prouver sa non-existence  que de lui refuser toute situation géographique ? Mais l'Unesco n'est-elle pas une institution à bute  éducatifs, scientifiques et culturels ? Ne porte-t-elle pas nos espoirs à tous ? Alors, Madame la  Présidente, j'exprime très respectueusement le voeu que, dans cetté instance, ce ne soit pas la  politique qui permette des exclusions, mais la culture qui permette l'union-; j'exprime le voeu que  l'Unesco - et ce serali sa grandeur - permette et même impose à notre monde troublé le travail  en commun - chacun oeuvrant selon sa vocation dans sa propre région -, travail en comman'dont  € Ipend le progrès moral de notre humanité. S'il devait en être autrement, nous serions en train  de reprendre le chemin qui, dès 1935, nous conduisait vers les horrèurs dont l'Unesco a précisé-  ment pour mission d'empêcher le retour, Je vous remercie, Madame la Présidente,
49, The PRESIDENT: Lt  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Jamaica,
50,1 Mr. WYNTER {Jamaica}: .  Madam President, we would have hoped that this matitir would hot have been reopened for debate  in plenary, We in Jamaica take the view that when a Cominisston hab given thorough examination to  a matter, then the plenary should respect the authority of that Commission unless there are new  events which would make it necessary to change. That is why, Madam President, we hope that  this debate will not be as long as the debate that took place in the Commission. -
50,2 Our delegation is dedicated to the view that every Member State, so long as it remains à  Member State, has the right to participate in Unesco's activities whether they are international  or regional, I should like to remind my colleagues that contrary to what was written in an article
42 in Le Monde yesterday by a former very high official of this Organization, the Executive Board's  authority to deéidé on each occasion on the list of countries to be invited to any particular regional  ‘meeting still stands if this resolution, as sent forward by the Commission, is acceéptéd, There is  no doubt about that, unless of course the Legal Adviser correcte mé and days it fé not'so, In the  absence of such correction, Madam President, I should like to try té defuse the fasue; every time  there is a meeting in Europe the Director-General will bring before the Board the list of the  Member States to be invited, .
50,3 The question at issue, therefore, 18 not participation on an ad hoc basié in meetings in Europe,  or Asia or Africa or Latin America and the Caribbean. The question is: should we add to the list,  which was drawn up by the thirteenth session in 1964, of States classified on a permanent basis -  «which of course would fnake it easier for the Director-General and for the Executive Board to  decide on this matter when regional meetings are being discussed in the Executive Board, That  is the real major question,
50,4 The second point is, Madam President, that we are not in this resolution trying to change  the map of the world, to put one country into a geographical region to which it does not belong,  This {s not our intention, We are dealing with participation in regional activities, And we there-  fore hold very dearly the principle that it is the Member State which must first decide in which  region it wishes to participate in Unesco activities - no other activities, we are not dealing with  things outside Unesco activities. That is the first principle,
50.5 The second principle, as was proposed by the Board, is whether that State happens to be  geographically in the region it wishes to participate in, or, if it is not geographically in the region,  has it got any cultural, social or historical ties with the reglon with which it wants to participate?
50,6 And next, Madam President - although in a small country like Jamalca we have no problems  with our own region of Latiñ America and the Caribbean - what is very Important for us'is, are  the Members of the reglon willing to have a Member State which is not geographically sited in that  region? And that is why, Madam President, when the question of one State came up in the Com-  mission, Jamaiéa, being fortunately placed near the middle of the alphabet, was able to hear in  the roll-call what Member States from that particular region wished to do, According to our  instructions, we were told to go along with the Member States in the particular region, because  it is their region and we must support them, because they must know best who they want in their  region,
50,7 I think those are the main points, Madam President, and I do hope that we can proceed as  calmly as possible to dispose of an issue which unfortunately has created too much emotion, I  do not think the issue is as important as all the emotion we have had over it, It is an Important  issue, like all issues before Unesco, and I repeat that whatever we do today, each time the Execu-  tive Board is considering an international meeting of the appropriate category, a list will be pre-  sented by the Director-General and the Board will take a decision on it, unless the Conferénce  decides to rescind the decision of the thirteenth Conference - and there is no such proposal before  the Conference at this stage, I move thaf we vote on the list proposed to us by the Commission,  and then, that we proceed to vote on the additional countries which havé been proposed in the  course of the debate, 1 do not think that we should try to do it in any other way, We vote on the  sixteen States that were proposed to us by a majority, and then we vote on the others separately,  as they were proposed today as amendments, Thank you, Madam President.
51,1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I have no other speakers on my list, The delegate of Israel has submitted an  amendment, which I must put to the vote first. It is seconded, The amendment is as follows:  "To include Israel in the European region", The vote will be taken by roll-call,  (A vote was taken by roll-call):  Ont voté pour : République fédérale d'Allemagne, Autriche, Belgique, Bolivie, Canada, Chili,  Costa Rica, Danemark, El Salvador, Equateur, Etats-Unis d'Amérique, Finlande, Guatemala,  Haiti, Honduras, Irlande, Islande, Israël, Italie, Jamaîque, Luxembourg, Malawi, Nicaragua,  Norvège, Nouvelle-Zélande, Panama, Paraguay, Pays-Bas, Royaume-Uni, Suède, Suisse, Uru-  guay, Venezuela.  Ont voté contre : Yémen, République démocratique populaire du Yémen, Yougoslavie,  Albanie, Algérie, Arabie saoudite, Bahrein, Bangladesh, RSS de Biélorussie, Bulgarie,  Chine, Congo (République populaire du), Cuba, République arabe d'Egypte, Emirats arabes unis,  Espagne, Guinée, Hongrie, Indonésie, Irak, Iran, Jordanie, Koweit, Liban, République arabe  libyenne, Malaisie, Mauritanie, Mongolie, Niger, Nigéria, Ouganda, Oman, Pakistan, Pérou,  Pologne, Qatar, République démocratique allemande, Sénégal, Somalie, Soudan, République arabe  syrienne, Tanzanie, Tchad, Tchécoslovaquie, Tunisie, RSS d'Ukraine, Union des républiques  socialistes soviétiques.  Se sont abstenus : République du Zaïre, Argentine, Australie, Birmanie, Brésil, Cameroun,  République centrafricaine, Colombie, Côte d'Ivoire, Dahomey, Ethiopie, France, Gamble, Ghana,  Grèce, Inde, Japon, Kenya, Lesotho, Libéria, Madagascar, Maurice, Mexique, Népal, Philip-  pines, Portugal, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Singapour, Togo, Turquie.
426   Etalent absents : (Afghanistan, Barbade, Burundi, Clypre, République dé Corée, République  dominicaine, Gabon, Guinée Bissau, Guyane, Haute-Volta, Laos, Mali, Malte, Maroc, Monaco,  République populaire de Corée, Roumanie, Saint-Marin, République de Sri Lanka, Thaïlande,  Trinité-et-Tobago, République du Viét-nam. )
51,2 The amendment presented hy Israel 18 rejected by 48 votes to 33, with 31 abstentions,
51,3 The delegate of China has asked for a separate vote concernirig the Union of Sovict Socialist  Republics, May I ask the Secretary to explain, )
52, The SECRETARY: -  China has requested a separate vote onthe inclusion of the Soviet Union in Western Europe  and in Asia and Oceania,
53.1 The PRESIDENT: .  I thank the Secretary for the explanation, It was necessary.
53,2 The delegate of Chile has the floor,
(54) M, BERGUNO (Chili), - (Traduit de I'espagnol.)  Un simple éclairclesement, Madame la Présidente, Si l'on vote pour, cela signifie-t-il qu'on inclut  l'Union soviétique à la fois en Europe et en Asie, ou bien vote-t-on seulement sur l'inclusion de l'Union  soviétique en Asie ? Telle est ma question.
55, The SECRETARY:  Madam President, I will repeat once more that the request of the delegation of China was only  to take a separate vote on that line, and that line now reads: "Union of Soviet Socialist Republics"  in the left-hand column, and in the right-hand column "Europe and Asia and Oceania”. You are  taking a vote on that. Those who are in favour that it read so, will vote yes.
56, The PRESIDENT:  The delegate of Jamaica has the floor on a point of order,
57, Mr. WYNTER (Jamaica): _  In 1964 the USSR was classified in Europe, Therefore the question of Europe is not before us,  The only thing the Republic of China is asking for is a vote on the inclusion of USSR in Asia,
58, The PRESIDENT:
1 should like to ask the delegate of China how his request should be interpreted.
59, Mr. YEH CHENG-PA (People's Republic of China) (Speech delivered in Chinese; English  translation taken from interpretation):  The delegate of Jamaica's interpretation is correct, The Chinese delegation proposes that a  vote be taken on the question of the USSR working its way into the group of Asia and Oceania, The  question is whether the Conference will agree that the USSR be allowed to join the Asian and Oceanic  group,
60,1 Thé PRESIDENT:  Thank you. Now it is clear. It ie now an amendment to the draft resolution, an amendment  to delete the words "Asia and Oceania", Am I right? Yes, So, would those in favour of the .  amendment submitted by China to delete the words "Asia and Oceania" from the resolution please  so indicate?
60.2 1 give the floor to the delegate of China on a point of order.
61. Mr, YEH CHEN-PA (People's Republic of China) (Speech delivered in Chinese; English  translation taken from interpretation):  I wished to request that Madam President make it clear. Perhaps some delegations were not  very clear,
62,1 The PRESIDENT: ;
1 think the delegations are clear now. ‘The amendment submitted by China is as follows: to  delete the words "Asia and Oceania" from the draft resolution concerning the inclusion of the Soviet  Union in various regions, Your amendment is to delete the words "Asia and Oceanfa"? Am 1  right? Thank you,
62,2 There is a point of order, The delegate of El Salvador.
42 (63) M, LINDO (El Salvador). - (Traduit de l'espagnol. )  Je vous demande pardon, mais pourriez-vous donner lecture du paragraphe, Madame la Présidente,
64. The PRESIDENT:  I ask the Secretary to read the line concerned,
65, The SECRETARY:  Madam President, if the delegates would kindly turn to item 39, on page (M) of document
18 C/124, Annex-Recommendations, they will find a resolution which contains a long list of Member  States on the left and of regions on the right, In the left-hand column is “Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics" and opposite it on the right is "Europe and Asia and Oceania", The amendment of the  People's Republic of China is to delete "Asia and Oceania' from that line,
66.1 The PRESIDENT:  Well, I think the situation ie now clear, Those who are in favour of the amendment submitted  by the delegate of China, to delete the words "Asla and Oceania", please so indicate,  (A vote was taken by show of hands, )
66.2 The amendment of China is rejected by 48 votes to 3 with 45 abstentions.
66.3 Now I put to the vote the resolution as a whole,  (A vote was taken by show of hands, )
66.4 The resolution as a whole has been adopted by 85 votes to 2, with 9 abstentions, China has  the floor,
67, Mr, YEH CHENG-PA (People's Republic of China) (Speech delivered in Chinese; English  translation taken from interpretation):  Madam President, when voting on the resolution regarding definition of régions as à whole  the Chinese delegation abstained, We should like to explain our vote as follows. First, with  regard to the States listéd in the draft resolution which were rot so far included in any ‘reglonél  group and whose requests have not caused any dispute in the given regions, such as the Demoéra-  tic People's Republic of Korea, Bangladesh, Singapore, Australia, New Zealand and Papua New  Guinea (which is an Associate Member) in the Asian and Oceanic region, the Chinese delegation  approves their participation fn the given region. Secondly, with regard to those States whose  requests have caused disputes among States of the regions concerned and on whose requests the  broadest consensus has not been reached, the Chinese delegation abstains, Thirdly, the Chinese  delegation is firmly opposed to the unreasonable claim of the USSR to work its way into the Asian ,  and Oceanic group when it has already been included in the European group. That is the explana-  tion of our abstention, Thank you, Madam President,
68. The PRESIDENT:  I give the floor to the delegate of Israel.
69.1 Mr, BAR-YAACOV (Israel):  Thank you, Madam President, ! regret very much that we had to vote against this resolution  but this does not imply in any way opposition to those countries whose names ‘are on the list of the  resolution before us, We votèd against the resolution because of the dichotomy, becaüse of the  gap, the almost schizophrenic gap between the statement of high principle in the preamble and what  actually happened in the voting here and in the Commission. The statement of high principle is con-  tained in the paragraph which acclaims triumphantly that ft is "the right and duty" of all Member  States to “participate fully" in regional activities. But in the deed, in thé act, ‘the Commilésion  and the Conference fell far short of this high principle,’ For a group of Members, capable of  mustering a majority on ‘apparently any issue, almost automatically decided: "down with principles,  up with politics". ! suppose, Madam President, that the same automatic majority could, in spite  of Galileo and in spite of Copernicus, carry a motion that the earth is flat,
69,2 Perhaps we should now introduce a new principle to Unesco, Should we call it the Orwelllan  principle? “In Unesco every member is equal - only some ate more equal than others", - That  is, some members can and do belong to two regions, and just those very members prevent another  member from belonging even to one, And that not because their own region is likely to be affected  but just because of blind hatred,
69.3 As we pointed out in the Commission, Madam President, if you have the time to listen, there  is no Middle East geographical region in the Unesco framework, Although we are a small country -  just some 3 million people - we are convinced, and many Member States agree with us, that we  have the interest and (we thought in all raodesty) also the ability to make a positive contribution  to Unesco's work, especially in the area of Unesco's concerns in science, in education, in litera-  ture, in music, in the arts and in the social sciences,
69.4 We would like, Madam President, to express our appreciation to all those Member States  and especially the majority in the European region who were ready to have us contribute within
428   the limits of our capacities to their discussions, But forces outside the European region decided 42  otherwise,
69,5 We hope, Madam President, that some day in the not too distant future Unesco will return  to live by its high principles and not be diverted from them by mean and petty political rivalry  and enmity, I thank you, Madam President,
70, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Indonesia,
71, Mr. PADMODIPOE TRO (Indonesia):  Thank you, Madam President, It is only a point of clarification, I speak purposely after the  vote has been done to prevent embarrassment, With all respect to the distinguished delegate of  the Soviet Union, in my capacity as Chairman of the Aslan group I think the distinguished delegate  has made some error in his explanation, Instead of the meeting of the Asian group, it has to be  the Asian Intergovernmental Conference on Cultural Policies In Asia, held in Yogyakarta, Thank  you very much.
72, The PRESIDENT:  Thank you. I give the floor to the delegate of Japan,
73.1 Mr. IKEBE (Japan):  Madam Président, the resolution just adopted classifies 17 Member States (includfhg San  Marino) into respective regions, As 16 of these Member States have névér belonged to any region,  my delegation believes that they have the right to perticipate in regional activities of Unesco,  belonging to the respective regions as specified in the resolution, Furthermore, in the opinion  of my delegation, a broad consensus exists on the part of the respective regions concerned as to  the acceptance of these Member States.
73,2 On the other hand, this draft resolution contained one Member State to which, in the opinion  of my delegation, the same rationale does not apply, This Member State already belongs to a  region, Besides, a sharp division of opinion exists among the countries of the region conterned  regarding the classification of this Member State in that region, in addition to the one to which it  already belongs. For this reason, my delegation abstained on the relevant part of this draft  resolution, Since the draft resolution consisted of these two parts which were quite different in  nature, it was difficult for my delegation to vote on the draft resolution as a whole, However,  my delegation was of the opinion that the case of the classification of these sixteen countries out-  weighs the other, For this reason, my delegation voted in favour of the draft resolution as a  whole, Finally, Madam President, I would like to add a word of welcome to Australia and New  Zealand into the Asia and Oceania region. Thank you, Madam President.
74. The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, I give the floor to the delegate of Jamaica,
75.1 Mr. WYNTER (Jamaica):  Madam President, the delegation of Jamaica, on the instructions of its Government, accepts  the decision taken by the General Conference, on this and other matters, We assume, Madam  President, that every delegation votes or has voted on principle, as we have done, We often see  principles differently. And therein lies our diversity. But it ts from our diversity that we can  get our enrichment, And that is why we are here together at Unebco,
15.2 With regard to one amendment, Madam President, ‘the delegation of Jamaica voted yes  because it appeared to the delegation that the vast majority of the European region wished the  member concerned to be accepted. With regard to the other amendments, the delegation of  Jamaica abstained because it appeared to the Jamaican delegation that there was a sharp division  within the Asian region about this Member State being permanently classified within Asia,
75.3 We should like, finally, Madam President,’ to repeat our interpretation of the situation,  What we have done in the resolution is to add, on a permanent basis, to the 1964 list of Member  States for regional activities, But the authority of the Executive Board which was given in 1966  with respect to regional meetings still stands. And as far as tHe regional meetings of a certain  category are céncerned, it contiñues to be the right and the authority of the Board to consider  each list prepared by the Director-General and to approve in each case, We hope that we can get  a clarification on this from the Director-General before the meeting rises, Thank you, Madam  President,
76.1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you,  Item 40 - Periodicity of the Report of the Director-General on the Activitles of the Organization
76.2 The Commission recommended unanimously that the General Conference adopt this  resolution,
76.3 The resolution under this heading fe unanimously adopted.
42 Item 62 - Deeignation of International Years: Report of the Director-General
76.4 The Commission recommended unanimously that the General Conference adopt the  resolution under this heading.
76,5 The resolution is unanimously adopted,
76,6 We shall how take up the report in document 18 C/131 and the recommendations contained in  document 18 C/131 Annex-Recommendations thereto, and I shall ask the Chairman of Commission V  to present them,
76,7 The delegate of the United Kingdom wishes to speak on a point of order,
77. Mr, McCULLOCH (United Kingdom):  Thank you, Madam President. As this will be the introduction of a rather important item,  may’ I suggest that we have a brief pause to allow those delegates who wish to leave ‘the room to do
80 before the item is discussed, Thank you, Madam President,  (The meeting was suspended at 5, 30 p.m. and resumed at 5.45 p.m.)
78, The PRESIDENT: ; ;  Ladies and gentlemen, the Deputy Director-General has received a question from a delegate  and he wishes to reply to this question, I give the floor to the Deputy Director- General,
79, Mr, FOBES (Deputy Director-General):  Madam President, in connexion with the item concerning regions, the delegate’ of Jamaica  asked whether the action taken by this Conference changed the usual practice when the Executive  Board examines the question of participation in conferences. The answer to the question 'is that  no action you have taken in any way alters the application of the regulations governing partici-  pation in and classification of conferences. The Executive Board will continue for each conference  in Category II to be asked to decide on the participation, At that time, in each case, the Diréctor-  General will present to the Executlve Board, as he always does, all relevant information to enable  the Executive Board to take a decision concerning participation. That relevant information .  includes, of course, such decisions as the Conference may have taken regarding the grouping of  States by reglons, as well as the discussions that have taken place regarding the grouping of States  by regions, as well as the discussions that have taken place in the Conference - all relevant infor-  mation, therefore, that will allow the Executive Board to take decisions as it always has regarding  invitations to Category II conferences,  REPORT OF COMMISSION V ON ITEMS 14 AND 35 OF THE AGENDA (documents 18 C/131,
18 C/131 Annex and 18 C/131 Annex-Recommendations)  RAPPORT DE LA COMMISSION V SUR LES POINTS 14 ET 35 DE L'ORDRE DU JOUR  (documents 18 C/131, 18 C/131 Annexe et 18 C/131 Annexe-Recommendations)  INFORME DE LA COMISION V SOBRE LOS PUNTOS 14 Y 35 DEL ORDEN DEL DIA  (documentos 18 C/131, 18 C/131 Anexo y 18 C/131 Anexo-Recomendacidnes)  HOKJAI KOMHCCHH V NO NYHKTAM 14 H 35 NOBECTKH AHA (noxymentr 18 C/131,
18 C/131 Annex H 18 C/131 Annex - Recommendations)  «FL IFI/EUA NTI /EVA SSE ) JL! Jde om Vo 3 VE eid) olay De AU i  (choad GAL ITA ia
80, The PRESIDENT:  The Chairman of Commission V has the floor.
81,1 M, LeBLANC (président de la Commission V). -  Madame la Présidente, j'ai maintenant à présenter à la Conférence générale le rapport de la  Commigsion V concernant à la fois le point 14 (Examen du document "Analyse des problèmes et  tableau d'objectifs pour servir de base à une planification à moyen terme (1977-1982)") et le  point 35 (Directives concernant la forme et le contenu de l'Esquisse de plan à moyen terme (docu-  ment C/4) et rapport entre ce document et le Proje. de programme et de budget (document C/5).  (Recommandations du Consell exécutif). Il s'agit du document 18 C/1ât.
81,2 Je n'ai pas l'intention de vous résumer ce rapport. Je me contenterai de le commenter briè-  vement. Ses premiers paragraphes traitent essentiellement des exposés qui ont été faits par le  Président de la Commission et par le Directeur général, Les paragraphes 6 à 16 contiennent en-  suite une synthèse des débats qui se sont déroulés au coura des quatre séances que la Commission  a consacrées à l'examen du point 14; ; enfin, les paragraphes 17 à 20 rendent compte des opinions  qui ont été exprimées au sujet des "zones de problèmes" qui apparaissent dans le document 18 C/4,  En annexe figure le rapport du Groupe de travail dont la composition est décrite au paragraphe 21  du document 18 C/131,
81,3 Etant donné, Madame la Présidente, que la Conférence générale réunie en séance plénière 42  n'a pas À approuver le document 18 C/131 lui-même, mais seulement à en prendre note, je ne  m'étendral pas davantage sur ce document,
81,4 Je ne voudrais toutefois pas clore cette Intervention sans rendre hommage au président du  Groupe.de travail, M, Jean Thomas, à son rapporteur, M. Bartlett, et aux délégations qui ont  accepté de désigner, pour faire partie de ce groupe, des personnes qui, en quatorze séancés, ont  accompli un très utile travail, À l'intérieur méme du groupe de travail a d'ailleurs été constitué  un groupe de rédaction, auquel nous devons le document 18 C/131 Annexe-Recommandations,  J'attire votre attention sur le fait'que la Commission à recommandé à l'unanimité que la Confé-  rence générale adopte les textes qui lui sont présentés dans ce dernier document,
81,5 Il y a, à mon avis, un fait important qui témoigne des progrès réalisés depuls la dix-septième  session : c'est que nous sommes actuellement devant des propositions qui traduisent la volonté com-  mune de la Conférence générale (représentée par la Commission VJ, du Conseil exécutif et de son  Comité cpécial. On volt ainsi se dessiner une orientation très précise et l'on sait déjà que'la Con-  férence s'attendra à recevoir, à l'octasion de la dix-neuvième session, un C/4 qui sera un plan à  inoyen terme authentique, Il convient à cet égard de rendre hummage au travail accompli par le  Conseil exécutif lors de ses deux dernières sessions et par la Commission V de la Conférence gé-  nérale au cours des semaines qui viennent de s'écouler, Merci, Madame la Présidente,
82, The PRESIDENT:  I now give the floor to the Deputy Director-General,
83.1 Mr, FOBES (Deputy Director-General): PL 4,  Madam President, I have three points to make, One is a statement of fact which I think should  be recorded before | you adopt the resolution contained in document 18 C/131 Annex- Recommendations,  The second is a small editing suggestion in the text, and the third is an interpretation of how the  Director-General will carry out this resolution, All three points deal with Section VII of the draft  resolution in document 18 C/131 Annex-Recommendations.
83,2 First, the point of fact: under the calendar in Section VII, paragraph 24, a document will be  submitted to the Executive Board by the end of March 1975, that is, 30 days before the Board's  session, concerning the C/5 and C/4 documents, Copies of this document prepared for the Execu-  tive Board will ag usual go to all Member States for information. That is document No. 1. Second,  under paragraph 27 {b) of the same resolution, a document concerning 19 C/4 is to go to Member  States reflecting what happened at the 97th session of the Executive Board, May I say that this  document therefore will be prepared after the Executive Board's session, and will go out to  Member States some time towards the end of June 1975. That is document No. 2, coming roughly  three months after documént No, 1, Then, under paragraph 27(c) of the same resolution, a third  document will go to Member States, by 15 August, This is the document which will be prepared  for the 98th session of the Executive Board, and hope is expressed in the resolution that Member  States will be able to make their views known on that document to the Executive Board during its
98th session, So my point No. 1, Madam President, is simply to note that three documents are  going out to Member States and will have to be prepared by the Secretariat, all dealing with 19 C/4:  end of March, end of June, and 15 August,
83.3 The second point fs my editing suggestion, In paragraph 27(b), it is said that we will "make  available to Member States, in the Spring of 1975..." Madam President, the editing is to suggest  the deletion of the phrase "in the Spring of 1975". The Executive Board will have finished its  meeting some time in late May, By the time we prepare a record of that meeting, have it trans-  lated and reproduced and sent to Member States, it will be Summer of 1975, that is, late June.  Summer starts here on 20 June. Therefore, "in the Spring" seems to be inappropriate, since  Spring will have long since passed us by.
83,4 My third point, Madam President, is to Interpret the natare of that document referred to in  paragraph 27(d). It will be substantially a report or a summary of the discussions that took place  in the Executive Board at its 97th session, concerning the preparation of 19 C/4., 1 stress that,  Madam President, because we will have already prepared a preliminary document concerning
19 C/4 in March, and we will prepare a more detailed document in July on the subject. Therefore,  we interpret document No. 2 to be one in which we summarize the discussion that took place at the
97th session of the Board. Thank you.
84,1 The PRESIDENT:  Thank you, The Commission unanimously recommended by 45 votes in favour, none against  and with no abstentions, that the General Conference adopt, together with its Annex, the resolution  contained in document 18 C/131 Annex-Recommendations.
84,2 The delegate of Australia has the floor.
85. Mr, PHILP (Australia):  Madam President, a very small point of an editorial nature, May I protest on behalf of the  Southern Hemisphere on the use of words like "Spring" and "Summer",
42 86. The PRESIDENT: ) ’ '  Thank you, ‘If there are no more editing suggestions, 1 think I can consider the résolution arid  its Annex unanimously adopted, subject to editing as just suggested.  REPORT OF THE WORKING GROUP OF COMMISSION V'ON PROGRAMME STRUCTURES FOR  INFORMATION, DOCUMENTATION, LIBRARIES AND ARCHIVES (documents’ 18 C/132 and
18 C/132-Arinex) AND RESOLUTION CONTAINED IN DOCUMENT 18 C/132 ANNEX-  RECOMMENDATIONS ‘  RAPPORT. DU GROUPE DE TRAVAIL DE LA COMMISSION V SUR'LES STRUCTURES DU  PROGRAMME EN MATIERE D'INFORMATION, DE DOCUMENTATION, DE BIBLIOTEQUES ET  D'ARCHIVES (documents 18 C/132 et 18 C/132 Annexe) ET RESOLUTION CONTENUE DANS LE  DOCUMENT 18 ons? ANNEXE - RECOMMENDA TIONS,  INFORME DEL GRUPO DE TRABAJO DE LA COMISION V SOBRE LAS ESTRUCTURA DEI:  PROGRAMA EN MATERIA DE- INFORMACION, DOCUMENTACION, BIBLIOTECAS Y ARCHIVOS  {documentos 18 C/132 y 18 C/132 Anexo) Y HESOLUCION I DEL DOCUMENTO 18 C/132 ANEXO-  RECOMENDACIONES  HOKAAN PABOUEÏ rPYnnsT KOMHCCHH wv fo CTPYKTY PE TIPOTPAMMH B 3 OBNACTH  HHSOPMAUHH, HMOKYMEHTAIMH, BHBJHOTEK H APXHBOB (aokyMeurs 18 C/132 H
18 C/132 Annex) H PE3ONOUH#H, CONEPXHAILANACA B IOKYMEHTE 18 C/132 Annex -  Recommandations) .  Qi je Upheni SUEY Gigi HIT pepe pts ole Ban UM Riel oi pl dad) dei pu)  cobalt GAL 1 y y jet A BalsIl 07651 LAL (GAL YY /pTAS ITY JA
87. The PRESIDENT:  I give the floor to the Chairman of Commission V to present document 18 C/132,
83.1 M, LeBLANC {président de la Commission V), -  Madame la Présidente, le dernier rapport, 18 C/132, qiie j'at l'honneur dé’ présenter au nom  de la Commission V, rend compte des travaux du Groupe de travail sur les structures du pro-  gramme en matière d'information, de ‘documentation, de bibliothèques et d'archives que la Confé-  rence générale, réunie en séance plénière le 17 octobre dernier, avait dernandé a la Commission V  de constituer.
88.2 Vous vous rappellerez sans doute que le Président de la Commission V était éhargé de cons-  tituer ce groupe de travail en collaboration avec les Commissions 11 et Ww le Bureau avait suggéré  qu'y figurent en outre des représentants de la Commission II, et ‘plüs particulièrèmeht des spé-  cialistes des sciences sociales, Les Commissions II et IV ont en conséquence accepté dé ne nom-  mer chacune que douze membres au lieu des quinze prévus au départ, afin que la Commission i  puisse désigner six représentants,
88.3 Au deuxième paragraphe du document 18 C/132 figure la liste des pays qui ont accepté de  faire partie de ce groupe de travail, qui a été présidé par M. Dramaliev, M, Hummel étant rap-  porteur. Je tiens lei A Femercler, outre le Président et le Rappôrtëur, tous les niembres du  groupe de travail pour le temps qu'ils ont consacré à mener à bien le travail dont 1a résolution  figurant dans le document 18 C/132 Annexe-Recommandations constitue l'aboutissement.
88,4 En ce qui concerne le document 18 C/132, qui rénd compte des débats qui se sont déroulés  au sein du Comité, nous allons devoir, Madame la Présidente, en prendre note commé nous  l'avons fait pour les deux précédents rapports. Je voudrais ensuite attirer votre attentlon’éur le  document 18 C/132 Annexe-Recommandations qui constitue, en somme, la recommandation que  le groupe de travail adresse à la Conférence générale.
88.5 ‘Mais, Madanie la Présidenté, avant de terminer cet exposé, fe voudrals, (puisque le rapport  que jé vous présente en cé moment est le dernier qui relève spécifiquement de la compétence de la  Commission V) rendre ommagè à toutes les délégations qui ont partiéipé aux travaux de la Com-  mission, Mes remerciements’ Vont notamment aux trols vice-présidents désignés par les déléga-  tions de la Bulgarie, de la Tanzanie et du Pakistan - M. Dramaliev,* M. Kayuza ¢t'M. ‘Shahab -  et au rapporteur, M, Keller, qui, avec une conscience professionnelle remarquable, s'est efforcé  de rendre compte aussi équitablement que possible des points de vue essentièls éxprimés au cours  des débats, Je tleris aussi, Madame la Présidénte, à remercier le Secrétaire de la Conférence et  tous les spéélalistes du Seérétariat qui ont été mis À la ‘disposition de 1a’Commissfon V ; j'ai béné-  ficié, grâce à eux, en tant que président de la Commission, d'uné équipe dé travail réellement  impressionnante et j'ai pu en outre constater par mof-même à quel point toutes ces personnes sont  dévouées aux grands idéaux de l'Organisation et aux Intérêts des Etats membres, Merci, Madame  la Présidente.
89. The PRESIDENT: : 42  Thank you. I give the floor” to the Deputy Director- General,
90,1 Mr, FOBES (Deputy Director- General): : ; ode  Madan President, yesterday when you considered the report’ of Commission H in docu-  ment 18 C/121 Annex-Recommendations, you adopted resolution 2.13 concerning UNISIST without  its last sub-paragraph; that is sub-paragraph 7(d), because you wanted to wait uritil you received  this report from Commission V on information, documentation, libraries and archives. When you  considered the report of Commission IV In document 18 C/128 Annex-Recommendations, you set  aside a proposed resolution which had originally been 18 G/DR. 108 Add., for the same reason,  that ls, you wanted to wait until you had the report now before you from Commission V.
90,2 The report and the resolution which are now before you, in the view of the Director-General,  make unnecessary and replace these two recommendations which came from Commission II and  Commisslon'IV, The resolution before you in docurhent 18 C/132 Annex-Recommefidations, is a  general resolution dealing with the problem of documentation for all subjects in our fields of ¢oni-  petence. In particular this resolution invites thé Director-General to convene a group of experts  to secure their ‘advice on thé éubject and to réport to thé Executive Board at its 98th session ih ‘  good time, bo that any actioncan be-reflected'in the ‘drafting of the next Programme and Budget  and of the Medium: Term Plan, Thus, this resolution establishes a group of experts and thereby  replaced the proposal for a group of ‘experts which liad come to you'from Commission IT,
90,3 Secondly, this resolution before you now, which takes account of the debate in’ the’ sevéral  programme commissions, endorses on a provisional and experimental basis the structures which  the Director-General had proposed in 18 C/5 concerning information, documentation, libraries  and archives, That endorsement therefore makes unnecessary ‘and inappropriate the proposed  resolution coming to you from Commission IV.
90.4 I make these statements for the record, Madam President, and so that you will know the  implications of approval of the Commission v resolution which is now before you.
90.5 May I make thié statément also, ; Madam President. The establishment of the group of  experts on this subject was not'foréséen in 18 C/5, therefore there is no specific budget provision.  However Cortimigalon’ Il, recognizing this, took the necessary dispositions as it reviewed the work  plans so that some funds would be availablé under Chapter 2 of 18 C/5 for the group of experts.
1 now make the further interpretation that since this group of experts is concerned with other  sectors, and not just scientific and technological information, we will find within the budget the  necessary extra funds in order to finance the cost of the group of experts in 1975.
91,1 The PRESIDENT:  I thank the Deputy Director- General, The Commission unanimously recommended that the  General Conference adopt the resolution contained in document 18 C/132 Annex-Recommendations.  If there are no objections, I consider it unanimously adopted.
91.2 Ladies and gentlemen, the delegate of United Kingdom has the floor.
92. Mr. McCULLOCH (United Kingdom): -  Madam President, thank you for giving me the floor. Very briefly, this marks the end of a  long and very difficult work on these particular questions at this General Conference and I would  like to take the opportunity, on behalf of my own delegation and all the others who participated in  the discussions, both in the Commission and in the Special Working Group, of thanking profusely  the Deputy Director-General and his assistants who have played a significant rôle in enabling us  to reach a satisfactory conclusion of this item.  VOTE ON THE APPROPRIATION RESOLUTION FOR 1975-1976  VOTE DE LA RESOLUTION PORTANT OUVERTURE DE CREDITS POUR 1975-1976  VOTACION SOBRE LA RESOLUCION DE CONSIGNACION DE CREDITOS PARA 1975-1976  NPHHATHE PE3OJIOHHH OB ACCHI'HOBAHHAX HA 1976-1976 TONAbI  YAYI=) Ye all dll tole! pai 15 Gh coal!
93, The PRESIDENT:  Now we take up document 18 C/130, I give the floor to the Chairman of Commission V to  introduce the document,
94,1 M. LeBLANC (président de la Commission V), -  Madame la Présidente, ce dernier rapport, 18 C/130, est le résultat de l'unique séance con-  jointe de la Commission V et de la Commission administrative, séance que j'avais été appelé à  présider confointemient avec le distingué Président de la Commission administrative,
94,2 Le rapport reflète fidèlement ce qui s'est dit au cours du débat, et vous trouverez notam-  ment au paragraphe 5 les ajustements budgétaires auxquels le Directeur général adjoint avait falt  allusion au début de notre session, En annexe (document 18 C/130 Annexe-Recommandations) fi-  gure la résolution portant ouverture de crédits dont l'adoption a été recommandée à la Conférence  générale par 39 voix contre zéro, avec 7 abstentions.
42 94,3 Je vous demande donc, Madame la Présidente, de bien vouloir inviter la Conférence géné-  rale à prendre note du document 18 C/130 et à adopter, tells qu'elle lui est présentée dans lé docu-  ment 18 C/130 Annexe-Recommandations, la résolution portant ouverture de crédits pour 1975-
95.1 The PRESIDENT: .  I thank the Chairman of Commission V.
95.2 The Commission recommended by 39 votes to none, with 7 abstentions; .that the General  Conference adopt this resolution, Since the adoption of this resolution requires a two-thirds  majority, I have to put it to a formal vote,  (The vote was taken by show of hands, )
85,3 The Appropriation Resolution for 1975-1976 has been adopted by 75 votes to none, with 6  abstentions, : ; .  ‘ ’ soot To I ROLE Tg ‘
95.4 ‘Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the examination of the reports of Commission Vv.  I should like to express my thanks to Mr, LeBlanç and hig colleagues for the excellent job they  have done. Without underestimating the work of the other Commissions, I think that Commission V  has dealt with the most complex and complicated questions, I-wieh to congratulate Mr, LeBlanc  on having coped with all these matters in an excellent way and presented a precise and clear-cut  report to the General Conference,
95,5 Ladies and gentlemen, at 9 p.m. tonight we shall have a night meeting. The meeting is  adjourned,  The meeting rose at 6,15 p.m,  La séance est levée à 18h. 15, -  Se levanta la sesiôn a las 18,15  JaceñaHXe 3aKpHBaeTCR B 18 uac.l5 Muu,  tle B30 3,5 uns lwo LINGUS aula cus,